US	34271677	RN2C9ECPPB31R	0143035657	801185934	78 Reasons Why Your Book May Never Be Published and 14 Reasons Why It Just Might	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Frank and Realistc  Advice and Information About Writing	There are a number of books about getting books published, and sometimes I think I won them all and have read them all. As a matter of fact, I sometimes wonder if I spent as much time writing as I do reading about writing, I'd be published by now. What I usually find is that I get one or two good tips from the writing books. I also find a good deal of contradictory advice. For example, one may say join a writing group and another will sing the praises of small groups. Some espouse keeping journals, others do not. Most will say that getting published is hard, but not impossible, especially for the person reading the book. Of course there are no stats available that say how many people who actually read these books are ever published.<br /><br />One newer book that I have found informative and hopefully helpful is Pat Walsh's SEVENTY EIGHT REASONS WHY YOUR BOOK MAY NOT BE PUBLISHED AND FOURTEEN REASONS WHY IT JUST MIGHT. The author is the founder of an independent press and has come across very manuscript possible. He also tried his hand at fiction before beginning his career in publishing. While Walsh believes that writers have to have a story to tell and have to be true to the vision they have for their work, he knows that desire and talent are not enough. He mentions the importance of persevering, listening to good critical advice, not being blind as to the work's greatness or perceived greatness, and knowing the subject matter well. Much of what he says about writing can be found in other sources, but he says it in a serious but humorous manner that sounds intimidating but after thinking about it is just plain and practical truth. He is frank, but eh does have the best interest of writers at heart. I found his information about publishing most helpful. Writing may be an art, but getting a book published and getting the published book sold is a business and writers need to understand the business aspect of publishing.<br /><br />On the back cover of they book, Betsy Larner, author of another great book about writing and publishing THE FOREST FOR THE TREES suggests buying copy of this book for every struggling writer. I think her advice is on target. SEVENTY EIGHT REASONS is an honest book about writing, but ultimately affirming. I don't know if it will discourage people who are not that serious about writing, but it will remind those who are serious how difficult writing a book that is publishable can be, and how much more difficult it will be to see the finished product on a bookstore shelf, but for me books that are honest about the challenges of writing make me more determined to complete my book and hopefully will help me complete a better finished product.Betsy Larner, author of another great book about writing and publishing THE FOREST FOR THE TREES suggests buying copy of this book for every struggling writer. I think her advice is on target. SEVENTY EIGHT REASONS is an honest book about writing, but ultimately affirming. I don't know if it will discourage people who are not that serious about writing, but it will remind those who are serious how difficult writing a book that is publishable can be, and how much more difficult it will be to see the finished product on a bookstore shelf, but for me books that are honest about the challenges of writing make me more determined to complete my book and hopefully will help me complete a better finished product. <br />	2005-10-08
US	34271677	R2N4PS4FBGMRZ8	0879461950	367991840	Grace Is Everywhere: Reflections of an Aspiring Monk	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sometimes God Can Be Found In Places  We Least Expect	GRACE IS EVERYWHERE is a collection of short essays by Trappist monk James Stephen Behrens. Trappists are Catholic monks who follow the Rule of St. Benedict living most of their religious lives in one place, believing that while the mystery of God is great, very often God can be found in the simplest of places and situations. Life has a certain pattern and a regular schedule of work and prayer is the stuff of Trappist life. Behrens, who worked in parish ministry prior to joining the order, takes basic daily events of life, many rather routine, and shows ways that God can be found in a variety of situations. The essays contain insights Behrens gained from his life in parish ministry as well as his training in the traditions of the Trappists. The essays and stories are meant to help the reader find God at work in the daily events that we all experience. An added bonus of the book would be the personal touches found in Behrens' writings. Throughout the reflections he shares bits and pieces of himself, his life, musings on family and friends and the like which helps readers see that while Behrens may live a life that is cloistered, his joys and struggles, successes and failures are not unlike those of so many others and we find not so much a spiritual guru as much as a companion.	2005-10-05
US	34271677	R2DQCJFBAXI8JE	1573223026	929884077	A Long Way Down	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Just In Case It Becomes A Film, Read The Book First	One of the many things I enjoy about Nick Hornby's books is his ability to take people I probably would either not like or notice and turn them into intriguing characters. I mean I've probably passed a number of Rob Fleming's of HIGH FIDELITY fame in various book and music stores in my lifetime, but apart from a short conversation I know nothing about them. In the hands of Nick Hornby, the Rob Flemings of the world become sympathetic characters we can all relate to because we either are Rob Fleming or we known a Rob Fleming. For the Will Lightman's of the world, introduced in ABOUT A BOY, I usually think \\"get a job and a life like everyone else\\" but when a writer like Nick Hornby finds a Will Lightman, he becomes a lovable bloke instead of a pathetic loser and we find ourselves rooting for him. Hornby uses these same skills but in a different manner in his latest work LONG WAY DOWN.<br /><br />In this novel, we meet four people who are atop a building on New Year's Eve, ready to end it all. We meet Martin, a former television star who has been jailed for sex with an underage girl; Maureen, a mother of a severely disabled child; Jess, a lost young woman who is the daughter of a political leader; and JJ, and American expatriate and wannabee rock star. None of them actually take the leap and a rather odd community develops between the four. While at times it seem somewhat implausible, and in the hands of a less skilled writer would probably be nothing but outlandish, somehow the novel seems to work and we find ourselves believing in the small world of these four people.<br /><br />The book is told from a first person point of view with all four characters having separate chapters. Hornby does a good job at creating distinct voices for the characters so we're never confused as to who is doing the narrating. He moves the book along rather well too. One character begins telling the story, then another picks it up. We don't get too many repeats of action or the four characters telling the same event. It's almost as if all four characters are in separate rooms. We walk in one room and one is speaking, then we leave and go to another and pick up the story again. The same holds true for room three and four.<br /><br />My guess is that LONG WAY DOWN will become a film. I would think it could make a good movie, but like HIGH FIDELITY and ABOUT A BOY, it could loose a bit of its edge. As a book we stay with each character and I'm not sure how that could be recreated on film, so read the book just in case it becomes a film.aracters telling the same event. It's almost as if all four characters are in separate rooms. We walk in one room and one is speaking, then we leave and go to another and pick up the story again. The same holds true for room three and four.  <br /> <br />My guess is that LONG WAY DOWN will become a film. I would think it could make a good movie, but like HIGH FIDELITY and ABOUT A BOY, it could loose a bit of its edge. As a book we stay with each character and I'm not sure how that could be recreated on film, so read the book just in case it becomes a film.  <br />	2005-09-28
US	34271677	R2Y3TWFMEYFJT8	0385512317	89102453	Forgotten Among the Lilies: Learning to Love Beyond Our Fears	Books	5	48	49	N	N	A Timely Collection of Essays Regarding the Spiritual Life	Ronald Rolheiser has many gifts he brings to spiritual writing. First he is a person of deep faith. He is also aware of the world we live in today, both its good points and its flaws. Combine this with a keen insight into people and a Catholicism that combines the best of the Catholic tradition with current insights into what feeds and nourishes people and you get an idea of what he brings to the table.<br /><br />FORGOTTEN AMONG THE LILIES is a departure from some of his other works. Instead of being a monograph about a certain subject, it is a collection of essays based on article sand columns he has written over the years and talks he has given. He divides them into thirteen categories and in each category there is a selection of essays. Most are short and can be read in one sitting and used for reflection. The themes of Rolheisser's earlier works such as the emptiness we can experience without God, the need for a fruitful prayer life, and the importance of belonging to a community of believers can be found in this volume. His writings reflect the concerns of the time including the aftermath of September 11, 2001 and the clergy sexual abuse scandal facing the Catholic Church but are focused solely on the two situations.<br /><br />At times I have been in discussion groups where articles by Rolheiser have been used to begin the debate. I have found that lively and interesting conversations have followed reading his works. This book which is ideal for either individual or group reading will certainly enliven a reading group or adult education class.	2005-09-19
US	34271677	R39OWCDC2QUJIK	0807072621	998949736	The Tricky Part: One Boy's Fall from Trespass into Grace	Books	5	21	21	N	N	An Inside Look at a Horrible Series of Events and their Aftermath	When I first saw the subject matter of Martin Moran's THE TRICKY PART, I immediately assumed it was going to be RUNNING WITH SCISSORS meets OUR FATHERS. It has elements that would be at home in both books. Like Augusten Burroughs, young Martin is sexually abused and as a child and has no realization of the extent of the hurt and damage the abuse caused, but Martin, unlike Burroughs is from a seemingly normal household situation (his parents do divorce, but the family members remain relatively intact). While his Catholicism plays a major role in the book and he met his abuser at a Catholic summer camp, it is not filled with the grotesque horror by members of the clergy that fills the pages of the David France book. Instead, the reader is taken into the world of Martin Moran and journeys with him through years of pain, depression and confusion but also sees him emerge as a well balanced man who is able to face his abuser and in some ways became a source of healing and forgiveness for a man who robbed young Martin of so much in his younger years.<br /><br />There are a number of books regarding the damage of sexual abuse available, but Moran's book does add a different perspective. We get to see the various ways he wrestles with what has happened to him as he navigates other challenges in his life. We see him discover his gifts and talents. We are with him as he matures. We are with him when he tries to take his life and when he recognizes his compulsions and the way these compulsions are ruining his life. We see him look at himself honestly and as he becomes aware of his sexuality, the process it will take to divorce his sexual preference as the reason he was abused in the first place. The process takes over thirty years and while during many of the thirty years his outward success was considerable, his inner pain and struggles loomed as large if not larger than the positive things that happened to him.<br /><br />I'm not sure what compelled me to read the entire book so quickly. Usually when I read such a heady subject, it takes a while. I need to digest it a bit while reading. One obvious reason would be great writing. Another would be the liability of the subject of the memoir. Martin Moran seems to be a nice guy who would probably have a story to tell no matter what happened in his life. Yet as I think about it, I think the cover made me continue more than anything. The cover is the author as a twelve year old, in one of those photos that could be both a beloved family treasure and an embarrassing snapshot that the subject hopes never sees the light of day. Every time a reader opens the book, a happy Martin is on the cover. When we see him, words like son, younger brother, cousin, nephew, kid, loveable goofball, mischief maker, or some other title or adjective could come to mind. Sexual object is not one of the appropriate adjectives and should never enter the equation, yet it does, and as we know not just from the Catholic sex abuse scandal, but from the need for laws of mandatory reporting and statutory rape remind us, it is part of the equation for far too many children.book so quickly. Usually when I read such a heady subject, it takes a while. I need to digest it a bit while reading. One obvious reason would be great writing. Another would be the liability of the subject of the memoir. Martin Moran seems to be a nice guy who would probably have a story to tell no matter what happened in his life. Yet as I think about it, I think the cover made me continue more than anything. The cover is the author as a twelve year old, in one of those photos that could be both a beloved family treasure and an embarrassing snapshot that the subject hopes never sees the light of day. Every time a reader opens the book, a happy Martin is on the cover. When we see him, words like son, younger brother, cousin, nephew, kid, loveable goofball, mischief maker, or some other title or adjective could come to mind. Sexual object is not one of the appropriate adjectives and should never enter the equation, yet it does, and as we know not just from the Catholic sex abuse scandal, but from the need for laws of mandatory reporting and statutory rape remind us, it is part of the equation for far too many children.   <br />	2005-09-18
US	34271677	R2OLO057GLW0VA	1565639855	40352307	Matthew: Storyteller, Interpreter, Evangelist	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Excellent One Volume Guide To Matthew's Gospel	Warren Carter's MATTHEW: STORYTELLER, INTERPRETER, EVANGELIST is a one volume introduction to the Gospel of Matthew. Carter intends it primarily for those studying the gospel in an academic setting. He divides the book into three sections: the first called before reading Matthew, the second reading Matthew, and the final after reading Matthew. Carter includes a good deal of historical research in the work, but looks at the gospel in the context of its original audience, which he believes to be the ostracized Jewish Christians in Antioch. He spends a good deal of time looking at the genre of the gospel and how its first hearers would have reacted and responded to it. He challenges those who are studying the gospel to try and do the same. Finally, he looks at how the gospel influenced other areas and what this can mean for believers today.<br /><br />Carter includes an extensive bibliography which will make it helpful for anyone researching Matthew. It also has a biblical reference index that will aide the preacher or teacher in finding specific information on texts from the gospel.<br /><br />This book was not available when I was formally studying scripture, so I never read it for a class or used it for research. I purchased it at a later date and have used it as a reference for preparing homilies during the Matthew cycle and in the preparation of Bible studies. I have found the book to be informative and helpful from a pastoral perspective. What I have done in the past is reread and reviewed the book in November in the years that Matthew's Gospel will be preached. Carter's scholarly information helps me understand the gospel better and his focus on the culture and people who would have first heard these words helps me better gear my homilies toward the people in my congregation.	2005-09-10
US	34271677	RMRQME6OWU31S	0892726806	415057043	Windjammers, Lighthouses, & Other Treasures of the Maine Coast	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautiful and Original Photographs of the Maine Coast	The most difficult thing about photographing the Maine coast is not having enough film or enough empty space in a memory card for those who use digital. In just about every nook and corner, there is something to capture: a scene with boats, lighthouses, the ocean in its glory, birds, and people earning a living in eth fishing industry. Maine is a state with natural beauty, history, and at times a glimpse of life as it used to be, though it is still a reality in this amazing northeast state. Yet with all the diversity, we often see the same scenes just captured by someone different. If you want to find some unique and beautiful images, Frank Chillemi's WINDJAMMERS, LIGHTHOUSES, AND OTHER TREASURES OF THE MAINE COAST is just the book for you.<br /><br />Chillemi, who offers photographic tours of the Maine coast aboard a windjammer, captures these beautiful vessels as well as the many lighthouses along the Maine coast. While he includes some of the famous Maine lighthouses: Portland Head, Nubble, and Pemmaquid, he focuses primarily on the mid-coast area of Maine and offers interesting shots of lesser known lights. He also captures the beauty of sail with his windjammer shots.<br /><br />I first saw this book when I was visiting Maine and decided I have to take a photographic tour with the author/photographer, hoping that under his tutelage I may get a few good shots too. I am sure I am not the only amateur photographer who has seen the book and decided the same thing. I haven't looked at the price of a windjammer tour yet, so maybe I will have to put it on hold for a while. One thing I do know, friends and family members who love Maine will be getting a copy as a Christmas or birthday present and I'm sure that once seeing this book, you'll love it too.	2005-08-15
US	34271677	R49P75W82IL7P	1582973261	127717018	Robert's Rules Of Writing: 101 Unconventional Lessons Every Writer Needs to Know	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Good Advice With A Bit Of Humor Too	ROBERT'S RULES OF WRITING is similar to other books published by Writer's Digest Books. It contains good information presented in a clear and concise manner, and offers something for anyone interested in writing. The author, who has had a number of books published: some thrillers as well as books that give advice to writers, gives his thoughts about the art and craft of writing. Each of the chapters has a catchy title such as \\"Burn your journal,\\" \\"Skip the truth,\\" or \\"Strip down to your briefs.\\" For each topic, the author shares what he has found to be helpful and why. Much of what he has to say has been said by others, which adds to the wisdom of what he has to say. Other entries are things that he has found helpful that at times contradict popular theory, which makes this book slightly different from other titles.<br /><br />In the book, Masello states what he believes does and does not work. He believes that writers should set up a schedule and develop a routine for writing, but he is not in favor of writing for the sake of writing, hoping for inspiration. He is in favor of well chosen words and good metaphors, but he advises not to go too far in attempting to find the best word, believing plain language can be just as effective, and if not more effective that flowery language and words most people need a dictionary to understand. He believes in outlining, but recommends an outline that works rather than one that sticks to a particular form. He believes that characters should be well developed, not necessarily perfect, and that villains deserve attention as well since they are central in most books. In the end he offers good advice on organizing material, creating a plot, developing rich characters, revising, submitting s book for publication, and what to do while awaiting the news of acceptance or rejection.<br /><br />One of the chapters that hit me personally was \\"Skip the Starbucks.\\" According to Masello, people who bring their laptops to Starbucks are not writers but people who want others to think they are writers. Living in the Boston area, where there is a Starbucks on just about every corner, with two or three Dunkin Donuts on every corner too, I have seen many people with laptops busy at work. There is even a coffee house in the area that is supposed to be a haven where writers do their stuff. I'll admit the laptop has gone to many a caf&eacute; and coffee shop because I need a change of scenery. Some of what has worked has been written in coffee shops. So I guess I could say that Masello is wrong, at least as far as this advice is concerned. I have also kept a journal since high school and it has been helpful. Again, is he wrong? Well, since I am not yet published, that would just be arrogant, but his points are valid. If a person wants to write, taking on the perceived persona of a writer will not accomplish much of anything, but getting down to the business of writing will, and that's what this book does well with a little dose of humor to boot. It encourages would be writers and those attempting to get words on paper that mean something to work at writing, get something accomplished that is worthwhile, and hopefully one day be published..le who want others to think they are writers. Living in the Boston area, where there is a Starbucks on just about every corner, with two or three Dunkin Donuts on every corner too, I have seen many people with laptops busy at work. There is even a coffee house in the area that is supposed to be a haven where writers do their stuff. I'll admit the laptop has gone to many a café and coffee shop because I need a change of scenery. Some of what has worked has been written in coffee shops. So I guess I could say that Masello is wrong, at least as far as this advice is concerned. I have also kept a journal since high school and it has been helpful. Again, is he wrong? Well, since I am not yet published, that would just be arrogant, but his points are valid. If a person wants to write, taking on the perceived persona of a writer will not accomplish much of anything, but getting down to the business of writing will, and that's what this book does well with a little dose of humor to boot. It encourages would be writers and those attempting to get words on paper that mean something to work at writing, get something accomplished that is worthwhile, and hopefully one day be published..	2005-08-15
US	34271677	R2OI18ZZFNTW8D	0824521412	890912847	View from the Altar: Reflections on the Rapidly Changing Catholic Priesthood	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	A Book That Offers Both Hope and a Challenge	VIEW FROM THE ALTAR is one of the many books on renewal and reform of the Roman Catholic priesthood that has emerged since 2002. While offering something distinctive is difficult, Howard Bleichner does offer a fresh and interesting perspective.<br /><br />Fr. Bleichner is the former rector of the theological college at Catholic University. Since most of his ministry has been spent in the formation of priests, he offers valuable insight into both what ails the priesthood today as well as what is worthwhile. The book is divided into three sections. The first assesses priesthood today, beginning with the present scandal and continuing by comparing and contrasting candidates for priesthood in the past and the future. The second section focuses on what are sometimes called the evangelical councils: prayer, simplicity of life, celibacy, and authority and obedience. In the third section Bleichner focuses on his belief of the theology of the priesthood.<br /><br />Perhaps what makes Fr. Bleichner's work thought provoking is his vision of the Church. He does believe that the Church needs renewal, and he believes that when the scandals recede bishops have to call for a council regarding the future of the Church, but everyone needs to be at the table. He loves many of the traditions of priesthood, but warns about returning to an outmoded type of living the priesthood. He also calls priests in ministry today to review what it means to be a priest and to rise to the challenges these times present.<br /><br />In Bleichner's book we find a priest who love ministry and the Church, sees the need for change, and has the ability to articulate his vision in this book. Hopefully all who read it will take his challenges seriously and rise to the call of a being a priest in challenging times.	2005-08-01
US	34271677	RGSX3XC1G2JXJ	0800631072	502587644	Jesus at Thirty: A Psychological and Historical Portrait	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Interesting But Not Germane	A friend of mine has an expression \\"interesting but not germane.\\" He usually says it when I get off the point, but believe I have something essential to say. As I read JESUS AT THIRTY I have to admit my friend's expression came to mind more than once. The book is at times engaging and is well written and thoroughly researched, but I'm not sure what it adds a great deal to the study of Jesus Christ. While it doesn't detract, which is something positive in and of itself, it doesn't add much either.<br /><br />John Miller's JESUS AT THIRTY is one of the many volumes that was published in the 1990's during what could possibly be called \\"the Historical Jesus craze.\\" A slew of books hit the stands and the findings of some of the writings made national headlines. Magazines such as TIME and NEWSWEEK asked the questions \\"Did Jesus really teach the `Our Father'?\\" and \\"Was there really a resurrection?\\" Millions purchased and read the magazines, so it did cause quite a stir. Since that time the methods of the scholars of so-called \\"Jesus Seminar\\" have been called into question and while their findings can be interesting and lead to debate, they are viewed by many as flawed at best.<br /><br />As the subtitle \\"A Psychological and Historical Portrait\\" suggests, the book uses information about the historical Jesus to build a psychological portrait of Jesus. As I thought about it, I wondered if this would be possible. Since the historical Jesus debates debunk nearly everything he did and question whether he said most of what the gospels claim he said, I wondered if a psychological portrait was possible. I am not sure Miller achieves this goal but he does give some interesting tidbits in the book and debunks some popular theories on Jesus Christ supposedly based on psychology.<br /><br />While I am not sure that some of the claims in the book can be substantiated, Miller does believe that Jesus is psychologically sound and parts of the book can be useful. For one thing, Miller does a good job at explaining many of the debates concerning the historical Jesus. He also provides an excellent bibliography of writings concerning scripture, theology, and psychology that will aid people in research.does a good job at explaining many of the debates concerning the historical Jesus. He also provides an excellent bibliography of writings concerning scripture, theology, and psychology that will aid people in research. <br />	2005-07-17
US	34271677	R2EHJFYGZVVI9L	1565632850	568157108	Theology in Rabbinic Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Good Introduction and Resource for Rabbinic Stories	THEOLOGY IN RABBINIC STORIES is a compact volume of some of the great teachings and stories from the great Jewish rabbis with a short commentary on each buy the author. Each story is concise and the commentaries add light and understanding of these stories. Since I am not trained in the rabbinic tradition, I cannot say how helpful these commentaries would be to the Jewish reader, but I can attest that the basic explanations will be especially helpful for non-Jewish readers.<br /><br />I purchased this book when it was first published. I have used it as a resource for preaching and to illustrate Bible study lessons from the Hebrew scriptures. As a Catholic, I look at the entire Bible in terms of Jesus Christ, but I have found that I get a richer understanding oaf the Hebrew Scriptures if I try and read them and understand them the same way that Jesus, a practicing and faithful Jew, would have read and understood these stories. Since the rabbinic tradition was in its formative stages in Jesus' lifetime, at least a minimal understanding of this tradition is essential for understanding Jesus Christ. A minimal understanding is needed for the most basic of inter-religious dialogue as well. This book provides such an explanation.<br /><br />A word for anyone involved in preaching or teaching. At times we all feel as if we are saying the same thing over and over again, our congregations feel as if we're saying the same thing over and over again, and deep down we know that this can be true. I have found when I am getting repetitious I need to find something interesting and different to say. This is one of the volumes that I can turn to and find something different to say. I find a story and a commentary that can easily be applied to so much of scripture. This is definitely one of those volumes that provides great material again and again.	2005-07-16
US	34271677	R230V5894UJ0RX	0385424302	519239346	Voices of Silence: Lives of the Trappists Today	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	An View of Trappist Life	VOICES OF SILENCE: THE LIVES OF TRAPPISTS TODAY could best be described as three stories melding into one. It  tells the story of Trappist monks and gives a brief history of the order. It deals specifically with the Abbey of Gethsemani in Kentucky and the people who inhabit this fascinating place. The third strain of the story is that of the author Frank Bianco, a journalist struggling with faith after a major tragedy in his life and how his personal contact with the Trappists in general and the monks of Gethsemani in particular helped him begin to cope with the enormity of loss in his life and the importance of faith.<br /><br />Bianco does give us a history per se, but intersperses his observations of the monks as well as his personal feelings throughout the book. It's an easy read with short penetrating chapters. At some points it reads like a novel, particularly when he writes about the monks who had the greatest impact on his life: Brother Gabriel, the young monk who is in the process of discerning, Dom Timothy MacDonald, or Mac as he is called in the book, the lovable Brother Saul, and perhaps the monk who challenged and inspired him most, the irascible Fr. Bede.<br /><br />The book is both unapologetic and reverential. We see the monks as people striving to grow closer to God who are also people with flaws and idiosyncrasies. We do not meet \\"cute\\" monks who are a caricature of religious life. Rather we meet people who live a vastly different life than most people in our modern world, yet have the ability to speak to the core of our humanity.<br /><br />Perhaps the reason this book was enjoyable to me was due to the fact I recently returned from a visit to Gethsemani Abbey where many of the monks in this book live (or at least once lived). I saw the monks \\"up close and personal\\" so to speak, and had the opportunity to observe the monks in action. In many ways this book confirmed what I saw upon visiting and serves as a reminder of the powerful spiritual witness of Trappist monks in our world today.witness of Trappist monks in our world today. <br />	2005-07-01
US	34271677	R39ZBMJWXE8FU0	0307275329	387937921	A Summer of Faulkner: As I Lay Dying/The Sound and the Fury/Light in August (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Sun, Fun, and Faulkner	Oprah's Book Club started as a vehicle for talented authors selected by talk show host Oprah Winfrey, some well established and others emerging, to get their works known. Toni Morrison, who had a loyal following prior to having SONG OF SOLOMON being selected as a must read book, became a household name. The same is true for Anna Quindlen and Ernest Gaines. Since my hope and sincere aspiration is to write a novel that entertains, challenges, and moves readers as much as Morrison, Quindlen, or Gaines' works do, I allowed my mind to wander to wild dreams of one day pushing my book on Oprah. Long before it was ever published, hey, who am I kidding, I'm still in the middle of writing it, Jonathan Franzen committed what could best be described as a mortal sin-he eschewed Oprah's endorsement. For Oprah fans and book lovers, Franzen's snub of Oprah was akin to running over Santa Claus or having rabbit stew with the Easter Bunny as a key ingredient. Now, thanks to Jonathan Franzen's snub of Oprah, I'll have to wait till I'm dead before any book I write will be a part of Oprah's Book Club.<br /><br />While Oprah is taking a sabbatical on selecting contemporary writers as selections for the book club, she is still recommending books that can move the heart and teach us a bit about ourselves. This summer she has selected three works by William Faulkner: AS I LAY DYING which tells the story of the Burden family as the members gather to bury Annie and their lives are revealed on the occasion; THE SOUND AND THE FURY told from the point of view of the Compson brothers: Benjy, Quentin, and Jason, all of who are part of but also disavow the family's dysfunction; and LIGHT IN AUGUST which could best be described as a character study of unwed mother Lena Grove, ex-minister and uncertain believer Gail Hightower, and Joe Christmas, a man of mixed ancestry living in Mississippi. Oprah's choice of Faulkner proves she believes in the intelligence of her audience and will no doubt expose many new readers to of one of America's greatest writers.<br /><br />I must admit I'm only a recent convert to Faulkner. I read a few excerpts of his works in college, but until a year ago I don't believe I read anything by the man except an author interview in a collection of PARIS REVIEW articles. A creative writing teacher I had gave me a copy of Faulkner's short stories as a gift, telling me that if I intended to write a family saga, I'd have to read Faulkner. I followed the advice and found Faulkner's writing style challenging, and I was not always convinced of his genius, until I realized how much he was saying and discovered his gift of creating complex and at times conflicting characters. The Faulkner books I have read (the three in this collection, ABSALOM ABSALOM, and some short stories) are not \\"easy reads.\\" I usually read a bit at a time and tell myself I will finish it. The beginning is a challenge and at times I've found that it's not until I'm about a third of the way through the book that I want to see what's going to happen and until the end of the book I'm able to piece it all together, but when I finish I see how it is that Faulkner continues to be a voice that speaks to readers toady and no doubt in the future. So spend some time this summer tackling Faulkner and in the fall, you will fell as if you accomplished something great and know you did.many new readers to of one of America's greatest writers. <br /> <br />I must admit I'm only a recent convert to Faulkner. I read a few excerpts of his works in college, but until a year ago I don't believe I read anything by the man except an author interview in a collection of PARIS REVIEW articles. A creative writing teacher I had gave me a copy of Faulkner's short stories as a gift, telling me that if I intended to write a family saga, I'd have to read Faulkner. I followed the advice and found Faulkner's writing style challenging, and I was not always convinced of his genius, until I realized how much he was saying and discovered his gift of creating complex and at times conflicting characters. The Faulkner books I have read (the three in this collection, ABSALOM ABSALOM, and some short stories) are not \\"easy reads.\\" I usually read a bit at a time and tell myself I will finish it. The beginning is a challenge and at times I've found that it's not until I'm about a third of the way through the book that I want to see what's going to happen and until the end of the book I'm able to piece it all together, but when I finish I see how it is that Faulkner continues to be a voice that speaks to readers toady and no doubt in the future. So spend some time this summer tackling Faulkner and in the fall, you will fell as if you accomplished something great and know you did.  <br />	2005-06-23
US	34271677	RXMX16A3TPYF0	1929154178	234166906	The Little Guide to Your Well-Read Life	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Suggestiosn for Enjoying Good Books	When I was in college, I had to read Mortimer Adler's HOW TO READ A BOOK, a well known work and considered by some to be a classic. I remember the professor joking he was going to write a book called HOW TO READ MORTIMER ADLER'S HOW TO READ A BOOK. The book is still a wonderful guide for those who are receiving a classical education and I still refer to it from time to time. Adler and his co-author Charles Van Doren now have a successor, not from the world of academia but from the business world in the person of Steve Leveen.<br /><br />Leveen is a successful business person, who like many, got by in high school and college with CLIFF'S NOTES and other study helps, which kept him form actually reading required books. It was not until a later date that he discovered the joys of reading, and his love of reading began consuming him. Over the years he developed reading habits that helped him love all sorts of works of literature and in his book he shares his hints hoping others will gain a love of reading too.<br /><br />Some of his suggestions include:<br /><br />a. Don't be afraid to buy more books than you can ever read and build a personal library. He even has suggestions on how to arrange books and has no problem with reading more than one book at a time.<br /><br />b. If you are not interested in a book, put it down and forget about it or read it at another time. This goes for the classics too. While classics stand the test of time, it does not mean that every classic is for every reader.<br /><br />c. Write in books, except library books, and if you're afraid it may ruin the books, know that the little notes in the book may tell others more about you and what makes you tick.<br /><br />d. Listen to audio books. Audio books do not discourage reading and in Leveen's case, they actually encourage reading.<br /><br />E. Join a book club and share your thoughts with other readers and the author of the book that moves you.<br /><br />As a former teacher, I loved knowing that Leveen developed a love of reading, as he said at a later point in life, but at least he discoverer the joys of reading. It will encourage adult learners and it will certainly motivate people who never had the opportunity to read good books. It is user friendly and enjoyable and hopefully will get others tuned into reading.oped a love of reading, as he said at a later point in life, but at least he discoverer the joys of reading. It will encourage adult learners and it will certainly motivate people who never had the opportunity to read good books. It is user friendly and enjoyable and hopefully will get others tuned into reading. <br />	2005-06-22
US	34271677	R1Z5A4X0BFS07L	1573222992	360305004	Plan B: Further Thoughts on Faith	Books	4	18	24	N	N	Lamott's Latest Work Both Hits and Misses the Mark	One of the reasons I enjoy reading Anne Lamott is because she is not afraid of being Anne Lamott and this comes through in her writing. She is an original voice, shoots from the hip, and lets her words fall where they may. She is also a believer in God, not a cookie-cut version of God, but a God like the God who bargained with Abraham, wrestled with Jacob, and could be fiery like a prophet. This God is also big enough to put up with Anne's foibles and knows that Anne is not a finished piece of work. Some find her interpretation of God enlightening, and others have difficulties since it is not always scripturally based or dogmatically correct. Because Lamott is such a unique voice in spiritual writing, I could not wait to read her newest book PLAN B: FURTHER THOUGHTS ON FAITH. While I enjoyed it overall, there were also moments where I was disappointed.<br /><br />Those who are familiar with Lamott's writing and enjoy what she has to say will find her irreverent yet witty style still intact. More than likely readers will also see a great strength and a great weakness in this volume which do not balance each other out in the book. The strength is her faith itself. It has matured and developed since TRAVELING MERCIES. It is a nuanced faith, and a faith that is real. It can be jarring at times to those of us who somehow fall into the category of \\"mainstream Christian,\\" but we can't fault her for that. Jesus Christ was hardly mainstream either. What potentially is a strength that can add a new dimension to religious discussion is weakened whenever she talks about the current presidency and the war in Iraq. She has some valid points that people of faith should be considering. There area few moments where we see that she is angered at the injustice of war, but instead of focusing on peace or the atrocities as so many other writers of faith would do, she spews her hatred for President Bush and all things right wing, but it sounds just like angry words, and at times just sounds like bellyaching. While she may consider hate too strong a word, her writing seems to state otherwise. At times her anger is so strong, she sounds like those she is criticizing, only offering the opposite perspective.<br /><br />Though the book has some serious flaws, I do believe it is worth reading. We do see that faith and conversion is an ongoing process. We see a woman who loves her son and is doing the best she can as a mother. We read the words of a writer who is honest about how she feels, and she also has plenty of anecdotes about the Church she belongs to which sounds vital and under the direction of a vibrant pastor. It tells the reader a great deal about Anne Lamott, but readers will have to decide for themselves if it says a great deal about faith.ounds like bellyaching. While she may consider hate too strong a word, her writing seems to state otherwise. At times her anger is so strong, she sounds like those she is criticizing, only offering the opposite perspective. <br /> <br />Though the book has some serious flaws, I do believe it is worth reading. We do see that faith and conversion is an ongoing process. We see a woman who loves her son and is doing the best she can as a mother. We read the words of a writer who is honest about how she feels, and she also has plenty of anecdotes about the Church she belongs to which sounds vital and under the direction of a vibrant pastor. It tells the reader a great deal about Anne Lamott, but readers will have to decide for themselves if it says a great deal about faith. <br />	2005-06-22
US	34271677	RM6Q953IUDA9S	0670033391	617580609	When the Nines Roll Over: And Other Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Overlooked Collection of Short Stories	A writer friend of mine has a completed novel and a collection of short stories to his credit. He believes the novel is \\"not bad\\" but his heart and soul can be found in his short story collection. While he believes his novel will not have too many problems being published, he has less hope for his short story collection. The popular theory in the world of publishing is that short story collections do not capture the reader's attention and the market is very limited. Short story collections do not get the attention or press they often deserve and David Benioff's WHEN THE NINES ROLL OVER & OTHER STORIES is a case in point. This is a great collection of well written and captivating stories but it has hardly received the attention it deserves.<br /><br />Benioff, who is known for his novel THE 25TH HOUR, his adaptations of books for film (he is currently working on a screen version of THE KITE RUNNER), gives us eight short stories that can engage a reader. The stories are varied and include tales about a recording exec who falls in love with a  punk rocker, a man who searches for a girl he met briefly who mesmerized him in high school, a man who is battling AIDS and the moral implications of being a part of a research study as well as other beautifully told tales. Benioff's gifts as a writer are evident throughout, but his ability to create distinct voices in his main characters and tell eight very distinct stories is amazing.<br /><br />Since Benioff is a young writer, we are certain to be hearing more from him in the years to come, or at least I hope we hear more form him in the future. He has a gift for writing and a voice that is certain to entertain and challenge readers.	2005-06-21
US	34271677	R1ZRD883TUM9X6	0964280213	307696910	The Abbey of Gethsemani: Place of Peace and Paradox (150 Years in the Life of America's Oldest Trappist Monastery)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Official Story of Gethsemani	About a month ago, I visited The Abbey of Gethsemani for what I officially said was a retreat, but like so many people who have visited the abbey, I loved THE SEVEN STOREY MOUNTAIN and wanted to see where Thomas Merton lived and wrote. The tourist in me wanted to see Merton's hermitage, which I did not see. It was in use at the time-the nerve of those monks for actually using it for the intended purpose. Well, I didn't have to see the hermitage to experience the special qualities that make Gethsemani a place like no other. History, tradition, beauty, simplicity and complexity all combine to create the spiritual life at Gethsemani where God's presence is found.<br /><br />Dianne Aprile's book is a coffee table sized book that tells the story of Gethsemani, the good as well as the not so good. We see a monastery that survived against the odds, hit its peak during the years of Thomas Merton, and still has a mission and purpose today. The book is somewhat sanitized in comparison with other works available, but unlike many of the other works which tell of visits to Gethsemani, the author was writing an official history of the Abbey for its one hundred and fiftieth had unprecedented access to photographs and documents which makes this book indispensable for anyone interested in Trappist life in general and especially to people interested in the Abbey itself. The book begins with a general introduction to the Trappist life and then tells the history of Gethsemani during each abbot's governance of the abbey. We see how the life in the abbey in many ways reflects life in the United Stets and the fabric of Catholicism in America.<br /><br />I read most of the book while I was at Gethsemani so I could ask questions and discover the behind the scenes story. I finished it when I got back home and since that time I've reread passages as a means of revisiting the monastery, if not in person, at least vicariously. I'm sure I'll treasure this book in years to come and encourage anyone with even a remote interest in Trappist life to consider this book.ne with even a remote interest in Trappist life to consider this book.	2005-06-21
US	34271677	R2BTFM5935GWV9	0385508581	268316725	Unlikely Ways Home: Real Life Spiritual Detours	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beck Shows He's A Gifted Storyteller And Writer	UNLIKELY WAYS HOME is a follow-up of sorts to Edward Beck's popular memoir/biography GOD UNDERNEATH. While it is not a memoir per se, we do see the ministry of Edward Beck as he tells the stories of people he has encountered as a priest. Each of the stories tells of people who have been alienated or hurt in life in one way or another, whether it is by an unfaithful spouse, sexual abuse, mistakes, death of a loved one, or some other significant loss or life event. Each person in the story also seems to tell us a bit about God by the ways each finds God in life. Perhaps the reason this book strikes the reader as authentic is that there are no \\"miracle\\" stories in the book, though God is clearly at work in the lives of the people Beck writes about in the volume. People struggle with actual life situations in a realistic way, which rings true to the reader and often is the only way we find God.<br /><br />As we read about these unpredictable yet grace filled stories of finding God, we may discover our own \\"unlikely\\" paths and see God at work in our own lives too.	2005-06-17
US	34271677	R1U4HMTBR31P6G	0385504616	678852459	Wayfaring: A Gospel Journey Into Life	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	An Interesting Journey Through the Gospels	The English spiritual writer Margaret Silf is the author of some excellent works from an Ignatian perspective. Two titles I have enjoyed are THE INNER COMPASS, an introduction to the spirituality of St. Ignatius of Loyola and SACRED SPACES which combines Ignatian and Celtic spiritualities. In many ways she personifies the Ignatian ideal. She is a scientist by training but is also a person of faith who has been trained in the spiritual writings of the famed Jesuit founder. Her writings are insightful and since she also brings the experience of being a  wife and mother to her works, real and practical.<br /><br />In WAYFARING, Ms. Silf continues what she started in her book LANDMARKS and takes readers through gospel passages using the methods of Ignatian spiritual directors. The chapters of the book are broken into sections that can easily be read in one sitting, and exercises accompany the chapter so that readers can experience what Silf writes about on their own terms. Sections of the book deal with the whole of the gospel. We see the beauty of creation and redemption in Christ in some exercises and chapters, but we also see the reality of sin. We are present at the birth of Christ but also his death and resurrection and all moments in between where we see Jesus Christ in ministry and encounter his presence in our own lives.<br /><br />The book has a personal feel to it. The reader can almost imagine Ms. Silf speaking, telling a story and sharing an insight, and inviting the reader to do the same. While reading this book it may be a good idea to keep a journal and record the experiences of prayer. Since many of the exercises can be repeated at later date, using the journal can help a person see spiritual growth.	2005-06-01
US	34271677	R3QY04UFQFHGDJ	0967213509	452444714	The Orchards of Perseverance: Conversations With Trappist Monks About God, Their Lives and the World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Realistic Book That Captures Trappist Life	David Perata's THE ORCHARDS OF PERSEVERANCE is one of the most interesting books on Catholic contemplative religious life available. Perata gives some background about the Cistercians, a group of Catholic monks and nuns also known as the Trappists whose life is based on the Rule of St. Benedict. The majority of the book contains interviews with monks, both priests and brothers, who live at New Clairvaux Abbey in Vina, California. The subjects of the interviews range from monks who have been in religious life for many years and the newest member of the community who eventually decides he is not called to the monastic life. In each of the interviews we see very different people struggling with a variety of issues with varied perspectives on life all searching for one thing: union with God. This book is not a pretty book so to speak. We do not find ideal people or perfect role models. What we do find are people who are real and attempt to live a life that is challenging for the person perusing it and fascinating for those of us who read about it and observe it. Reading about the joys and struggles of these monks can help us as we strive to live in our world and search for the same thing these men are searching for, and in many ways are finding.<br /><br />I do know how the Trappists feel about the many books written by them. Some I'm sure they love and appreciate, others they probably would not mention because as anyone who has ever met a Trappist knows, courtesy is a hallmark of this order. Whenever I have visited a Trappist monastery, I usually head right to the bookstore and I do not find all the so called Trappist books, but I do always seem to find THE ORCHARDS OF PERSEVERANCE prominently displayed. My guess is the reason is that Trappists themselves find the book authentic, and quite frankly, that's good enough for me.	2005-06-01
US	34271677	R2FPO7TSDWSV7S	1582973547	714316344	Some Writers Deserve to Starve!	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Writers: Read this and say "I hope this book's not about me"	When I first saw this title, I knew I had to have it. Probably like many people who have purchased this book, I too am in the midst of writing the proverbial \\"great American novel.\\" I have been at it for as long as I can remember, but I have been serious about it for the past two years. At times I feel like I am just about to finish a first draft, but only a few moments later I wonder if I have accomplished anything at all. Thankfully I have been in writing workshops with great teachers and participants, and I live in Boston which is a great literary city.<br /><br />While the book is titled SOME WRITERS DESERVE TO STARVE, and sounds negative in tone, I read it with the feeling that while some may deserve to starve, it may be a choice more than anything else. Elaura Niles writes about publishing from the perspective of a writer, and discusses in depth the brutal, ruthless, and more often than not thankless world of publishing. Her work is intriguing. It keeps writers from getting disillusioned by presenting the reality of publishing today. Dispelling the myths is helpful, at least to me, for it gets me to be more serious about my writing. It did nothing to dispel my dream that my words will be immortal, but it helped me realize that every time I sit down at my computer, the words that flow may not all be the immortal words I hope to leave behind, and if I want to leave something behind, I better be prepared to work. The book is also frank enough to keep me serious, so that maybe, twenty years after I'm gone my niece and nephew will not be going through my personal belongings and find a manuscript box with my words and think \\"poor Uncle Time, he always wanted to be published but...\\" Instead, they'll proudly show others Uncle Tim's novel in published form.<br /><br />The book assumes that readers have either completed a manuscript and are revising it or preparing to market it, or are at least at work on something substantial. It gives suggestions about writing, revising, finding agents, determining if an agent is honest, writing conferences, critique groups, and the do's and don't of contacting editors, agents, and other involved in publishing. It is humorous at time, and sharp at other times, but always honest.<br /><br />As I've mentioned in many reviews of writing and publishing books I have reviewed, I am at work on a novel and have yet to have anything published. When I read about writing I try and mix insights from great writers, some theory, and practical advice about publishing. When I am published I may have a better idea of the value of this book, but from where I am now it seems solid to me.vising, finding agents, determining if an agent is honest, writing conferences, critique groups, and the do's and don't of contacting editors, agents, and other involved in publishing. It is humorous at time, and sharp at other times, but always honest. <br /> <br />As I've mentioned in many reviews of writing and publishing books I have reviewed, I am at work on a novel and have yet to have anything published. When I read about writing I try and mix insights from great writers, some theory, and practical advice about publishing. When I am published I may have a better idea of the value of this book, but from where I am now it seems solid to me.  <br />	2005-05-19
US	34271677	R1J36U4D967J6I	0809142708	605047804	The Lost Art of Walking on Water: Reimagining the Priesthood	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Finally Someone Is Saying What So Many Priests Are Thinking	I'm not sure if the reason I enjoyed reading THE LOST ART OF WALKING ON WATER was due to new ideas on priesthood by its author. In truth, very little of what Michael Heher states is all that radically new. He speaks of ways to pray, keep celibacy in check, being authentic to the call, having a public persona, and  most of what would be expected from a priest and in a book about ministry. Yet as I read the book, I found myself fully engaged and rarely felt as if I was reading the same old thing. I think the reason is Heher has the ability to say what so many priests are thinking and have been thinking for years, but do not always state. Unlike so many who have added to the volumes that have been written about priesthood and presbyteral ministry in the Catholic Church of the United States in the past few years, Herer is in active ministry as a priest and knows the effects of the recent clergy sex abuse scandal on priests and people alike. While the scandal is ever present in his work, it is hardly the focus as would be the case in writers such as Donald Cozzens. He knows that the priesthood is in a fragile state at this time, understands what it is like to loose credibility so quickly and how difficult it is to regain it, knows what the solution is but also understands that the solutions are hardly to become a reality any time soon and encourages his brother priests to persevere. The book is almost free of ideological bias and should be a source of empathy and encouragement to priest striving to serve God's Church and a wake up call for those  who side by, are quick to complain, and do little to enrich and enliven their ministry.<br /><br />While the book is written primarily for priests, it is a book that could be read by anyone interested in the health and future of the Roman Catholic Church. Ultimately it is a hopeful book, but it also reminds the reader of how much work needs to be done.	2005-05-19
US	34271677	R1MNXHP8YX9IPF	0809135795	427879972	Sleeping with Bread: Holding What Gives You Life	Books	5	46	47	N	N	An Invitation to the Examen	Matthew Linn, a Jesuit priest, his brother Dennis Linn and sister-in-law Sheila Fabricant Linn are well known writers and retreat speakers, especially in the area of healing life's hurts. In SLEEPING WITH BREAD, the trio looks at the Ignatian prayer practice of the examen and helps readers learn this method of self examination and reflection which can help us become more aware of God's presence in our lives on a daily basis. The book begins with a story of children in World War II England who had to vacate their homes due to fighting. The children had a difficult time falling asleep at night, fearing they would lose their lives. Someone had the idea of giving each child a piece of bread as a means of comfort and the children were able to sleep, knowing that they had food that day and with the bread in hand, they would have bread the next day too. The Linns expand this idea to show how the things in our own lives, those things which sustain us, comfort us one day and give us hope for the next.<br /><br />The book discusses not only the personal examen, but offers suggestions and stories about groups that have used the prayer, families that have grown closer to each other and to God using the prayer, and suggestions for varied ways of using the prayer. The book is easy to read with colorful illustrations which give it an inviting feel which will help the reader identify what is important, hold on to it, and if the spirit if the examen is kept, will see God's presence in daily life.	2005-05-06
US	34271677	RRRRWS4BSNSXB	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	7	10	N	N	It's Easy To See Why So Many People Love This Book!!!	THE KITE RUNNER has been sitting near the top of the best seller lists of major newspapers for nearly a year, as did the hardcover version. It is a favorite selection of book clubs, has received all kinds of endorsements and recommendations, and has received high accolades from many critics. Most people who have read the book can understand why. It tells the story of an Afghani named Amir. The thirty something Amir tells the story of his childhood, but does so in a critical yet honest manner. Amir grows up in a privileged home with a powerful father. His closest friend is the servant's son Hassan. The two love the Afghan tradition of kite running, a complicated and competitive game. As the two grow older, differences in race and class separate the two and a series of events cause a severance between Amir and Hassan. Amir immigrates to America, gets married, becomes a writer, but later returns to Afghanistan shortly before the events of September 11 to say \\"good-bye\\" to a dying family friend, but also comes face to face with his past as well as some of the choices he made.<br /><br />The plot is interesting, and could easily take a number of different twists, which keeps the reader involved. It also tells a bit about the history of a people in the news, introduces readers to some of the cultural conflicts in the area, and gives us a better understanding of Afghanistan. Yet the greatest strength of the book would be the character he creates in Amir. He is not always sympathetic, at times he's self centered, and he has made some tragic mistakes in his young life. Yet he is also multi-dimensional. If we met a person like Amir in real life, we would never suspect he is anything but a good guy and would admire his family loyalty and work ethic. We would never suspect his past. As we continue to read we understand that he dealt with situations in a way he thought best, and the reader realizes that anyone in the same situation could react as Amir did.  Perhaps this is why the book is so mesmerizing. It challenges us to think about our own lives and the choices we have made.<br /><br />At one point in the book, Amir notes that expatriated Afghanis in a San Francisco Starbucks are discussing the events of their homeland, hinting at the disconnect between those who have settled in America and their countrymen and women under the rule of the Taliban. I'm not sure of what the political discussion of Afghani people in San Francisco would be today, but I can guarantee you that of you are in the Boston area, you will find all kinds of people in a Starbucks sipping a latte and either reading or discussing THE KITE RUNNER. It starts conversations on subway trains and in the aisles of bookstores and leads to lively discussions at book clubs and around the water cooler at work. Read it and you'll discover why.the book is so mesmerizing. It challenges us to think about our own lives and the choices we have made. <br /> <br />At one point in the book, Amir notes that expatriated Afghanis in a San Francisco Starbucks are discussing the events of their homeland, hinting at the disconnect between those who have settled in America and their countrymen and women under the rule of the Taliban. I'm not sure of what the political discussion of Afghani people in San Francisco would be today, but I can guarantee you that of you are in the Boston area, you will find all kinds of people in a Starbucks sipping a latte and either reading or discussing THE KITE RUNNER. It starts conversations on subway trains and in the aisles of bookstores and leads to lively discussions at book clubs and around the water cooler at work. Read it and you'll discover why.  <br />	2005-04-30
US	34271677	R2TD2D7HCZSD04	0385501811	277423577	God Underneath: Spiritual Memoirs of a Catholic Priest	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Good Book About An Authentic Priest	GOD UNDERNEATH is not a memoir about an extraordinary priest, as its author Edward Beck would readily admit. He was raised in an average Catholic family, his vocational call was somewhat ordinary, he was not a brilliant scholar as a student, and his success does not rival that of a televangelist or a religious celebrity. This is probably why the book is so powerful and such a worthwhile read. We meet a priest who is spiritual, wants to serve God, and has many human ups and downs. He struggles with his call, what it means to be a Catholic, and how to make faith meaningful for people. We see him face some opposition, and we get a sense of his flaws as well. Yet in the end we meet a remarkable person who is able to find God in so many situations and see God in a variety of people. We see an honest and dedicated person of faith succeeding at living his call.<br /><br />The book is an enjoyable and easy read. We feel we know the author rather well because he is honest about his ministry and faith. Yet while eh tells the story about his priesthood, in many ways the book is not about Edward Beck. The author uses the many people he has encountered in his life and in his ministry, and shows the ways in which God works in their lives. In many cases Beck is the instrument God uses, but we see that Beck clearly grows closer top God by ministering to the many people he meets in his ministry. For this reason too, we can see God at work in Edward Beck was we read this book.	2005-04-16
US	34271677	R3JJ0GC3O501DT	0679765611	989306088	Crossing the Threshold of Hope	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A MOVING WORK BY A GREAT SPIRITUAL LEADER	The recent death of Pope John Paul II will more than likely introduce many new readers to this modern classic. It is a collection of writings published in 1994, the same year that THE CATECHISM OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH was promulgated. While the book has a great deal of content, and can be dogmatic at times (the word dogmatic is not mean to be a criticism-it is one of the functions of a Pope to clarify and at times define dogma), it is an intriguing book. While speaking about issues such as life, faith, the existence of God, the importance of prayer, salvation, and hope, he weaves Church teaching and personal anecdotes. We get a sense of the Pope's faith in the book, but we know that his faith was something he struggled with as well as something that got him through difficult times. We see he has favorite passages of scripture, a variety of theologians who inspire him, the ways in which Jesus' words \\"Be Not Afraid\\" became the theme of just about everything he did as Pope, and most of all we see a deep love of God, a dedication to following his son Jesus, a string devotion to Mary, and a generosity in his accepting his call.<br /><br />There are many ways in which we can understand and appreciate Pope John Paul II. We can have a theological and philosophical understanding of him by studying the Catechism and his many encyclicals. We can understand him in terms of human rights by examining his many trips around the world and his reasons behind many of the trips. We can understand his place in history by recalling his role in the end of Communism and we can understand his hope for peace and reconciliation by looking at the example he set by forgiving the man who tried to assassinate him. Yet looking at any one of these areas gives a person a limited understanding of this great leader and person of faith. CROSSING THE THRESHOLD OF HOPE helps us understand the whole of Pope John Paul II and helps us appreciate the gift he was to so many-Catholic and non-Catholic alike.br />	2005-04-11
US	34271677	RKX8F5XGD5WD6	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Beloved Modern CLassic	Since it was first published, Paulo Coelho's THE ALCHEMIST has been a perennial best seller all over the world and has been translated into many languages. It's easy to see why. It tells the story of Santiago, a Spanish shepherd who travels the world in search of his dreams. He is a seeker by nature, and has restlessness about him. Both of these characteristics make him an appealing character. As Santiago goes about searching for what Coelho calls his \\"Personal Legend,\\" he meets a variety of characters some good, others not, and learns life's instructions along the way. The final lessons he learns may not be all that deep, but these lessons contain the wisdom that many of us search a lifetime for, and wonder why we did not discover it earlier.<br /><br />While the book tells the familiar story of searching for dreams, and could be faulted for being a bit predictable, Coelho uses his gifts as a writer to prevent the work from becoming clich&eacute;. There are numerous Biblical and religious images as well as a variety of spiritual themes that make the book captivating. The book has a \\"Catholic\\" feel to it, which for me is an asset, but it can easily be appreciated by any reader and its lessons are universal in scope. While the book is an easy read, it does require the reader's attention. Coelho's use of punctuation is different than that which is used in Standard English. This may be due more to the translation than anything else, and a reader who does a light reading runs the risk of missing many of its symbols and images. Another strength of the book is its pace. It is action packed and there are plenty of surprises in the book. It is also the perfect discussion book. Different nuances seem to touch different readers which leads to interesting conversations, and it is one of those books that can be read a second or third time and still seem like new.<br /><br />Paulo Coelho is a writer who, according to his biography, has had a life of twists and turns, as well as dreams that were at times conflicting. Perhaps this is why he is able to create such a moving story in his short work THE ALCHEMIST about a person pursuing a dream. Perhaps it is his story told in fable form. Yet as we read it we discover ways it reaches us as well, so we decide it's our story. After reading this book, it is no surprise that it has been as popular as it has been over the years, and why it is considered by many to be a modern classic.eams that were at times conflicting. Perhaps this is why he is able to create such a moving story in his short work THE ALCHEMIST about a person pursuing a dream. Perhaps it is his story told in fable form. Yet as we read it we discover ways it reaches us as well, so we decide it's our story. After reading this book, it is no surprise that it has been as popular as it has been over the years, and why it is considered by many to be a modern classic.  <br />	2005-04-07
US	34271677	R32LMF6QUOAFE0	0312421001	955331877	I Thought My Father Was God: And Other True Tales from NPR's National Story Project	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Good Stories Have Power	In some ways I THOUGHT MY FATHER WAS GOD could be called \\"Chicken Soup for the NPR Soul.\\" Like the titles in the familiar \\"Chicken Soup\\" series, this is a collection of stories from ordinary individuals that have a way of reaching readers. The selections in this volume stemmed from National Public Radio's ALL THINGS CONSIDERED National Story Project. The book is edited by noted writer Paul Auster who selected the stories included in this volume from nearly four thousand entries. The stories themselves range from the humorous and heartwarming to the serious. We meet a variety of people such as a woman who questions life after death when a lost ring is discovered; an artist who falls in love at first sight with a woman absorbed in Dickens' GREAT EXPECTATIONS; and a man who went to a Halloween party dressed as a priest, but gets a taste of ministry from people who have no idea its just a costume. These are juts a sampling of the many stories included in this work. The tales are varied, but share one common characteristic. All find meaning in ordinary events as we interact with the people in our lives: family members, friends, and sometimes strangers. Most of the contributors are not professional writers but each story is the creation of someone who has a desire to share an often times ordinary but deeply held story that needs to be told. When we finish reading the stories in this volume, we may be tempted to say \\"I can tell a story like that\\" and since these stories are so human and real, we probably can!	2005-04-07
US	34271677	R2MHRGKSIMG1EK	0618219226	306036293	All We Know of Heaven: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Invitation To A World Few Of Us Will Ever Know	ALL WE KNOW OF HEAVEN is to monastic life what DIARY OF A COUNTRY PRIEST is to priesthood. It tells the story of Paul Seneschal, who in the book becomes Brother Antoine, a Cistercian monk. Like the main character of the Bernanos classic, Brother Antoine is a compelling character because he is ordinary. While he is in monastic life, he is not a mystic. Prayer is at time difficult for him and he even wonders if the prayer routine is necessary even though it is the basis and structure of monastic life. Though he seems suited for life in the monastery, this is due more to his demeanor than religious fervor. He has a fierce battle with celibacy at one point, but the incident is more horrific than heroic. His life is mundane, and there seems to be very little that would compel him to stay in religious life. Still he is dedicated and when he discovers that he has accomplished something by persevering, we feel joy for him and know that he will be a good monk and will be able to withstand the challenges and difficulties of such a life.<br /><br />ALL WE KNOW OF HEAVEN is more than good fiction. It easily challenges the ideal and bliss-filled life to we could imagine life in a monastery to be. Remy Rougeau brings us into the world of St. Norbert Abbey. While the monastery itself is fictitious, Rougeau was a Cistercian and is still a monk in the Benedictine tradition and we get a sense from the details dispersed throughout the book that places like St. Norbert's exist and the author knows this first hand. We find rather off beat characters in the other monks and few examples of religiosity and piety. We may not discover the holiness we expect, but we do discover humanity and people in an imperfect but sincere search for God and meaning in life. Perhaps this is why this book is so powerful. Even those of us who are not in monastic life try and search fro God and meaning in life. A character like Paul Seneschal, a.k.a. Brother Antoine can speak so powerfully to nay of us and move us is because, we too are searching for the same things albeit in a different manner.move us is because, we too are searching for the same things albeit in a different manner.   <br />	2005-04-07
US	34271677	R2BRZ8IGUE1RAJ	0618067442	195376468	When Jesus Came to Harvard: Making Moral Choices Today	Books	5	53	59	N	N	A Interesting Perspective on Jesus' Moral Teachings	In the Boston area at least, many people are reading Harvey Cox's WHEN JESUS CAME TO HARVARD. Cox is a familiar name in the religious circles in the area, and his book is a great read. With this book we get the level of scholarship one should expect from a professor at Harvard, the insights of a gifted teacher who engages students and shares some of their reflections and insights, and a very readable book that proves what so many already know, the message of Jesus Christ is always relevant and has something to say for our world today.<br /><br />Cox did not intend to ever write such a book. He was asked to teach an undergraduate course at Harvard a number of years ago on the moral teachings of Jesus Christ. The university was concerned that while it was preparing the world's future leaders, it did little to shape moral education and began requiring at least one semester in ethics. The university in its wisdom decided that Jesus should be included as well, which caught many at this bastion of secularity by surprise. It also asked Harvey Cox to be the instructor. Cox was reluctant, but agreed and it has since become one of the university's most popular classes. This work is basically a summary of the course and the story of the class itself.<br /><br />Cox's basic stand in the book is that the moral teachings of Jesus Christ are similar in many ways to other moral teachings and one can find common ground in the teachings of Jesus Christ without being a believer. He also stresses Jesus' Jewishness and how he was similar to a rabbi of his day which is not original to Cox, but he is able to stress his being a  rabbi in a manner that is respectful to Judaism while at the same time acknowledges Jesus' unique role. The book does not give easy answers to the most pressing moral issues of our day, but can help us try to imagine a response that would be the response of Jesus if he lived today. We also see how the course challenged Cox's faith. At first he had decided he would avoid potentially controversial situations such as the resurrection, believing that this is a matter of faith and not objective study. He also believed that in doing so he was being respectful of those who are not Christians. He discovered that one cannot disconnect the faith aspect of Jesus Christ and his teachings. While he did not set out to \\"convert\\" any of his non-Christian students, his looking at the faith aspect seems to have strengthened his own faith.<br /><br />I do know some of Professor Cox's former students. One jokingly complained at the time that THE SECULAR CITY was published that the book contained insights derived from Cox's classes including one he enrolled in, but he was not getting any royalties from the book. After reading WHEN JESUS CAME TO HARVARD, he made the same claim again. He also purchased a number of copies of the book and gave them as gifts to friends. For people of faith this book offers the challenge to live Jesus' moral teachings, and for people who are not Christian, the book does show how Jesus' moral insights can be insightful for everyone.d he would avoid potentially controversial situations such as the resurrection, believing that this is a matter of faith and not objective study. He also believed that in doing so he was being respectful of those who are not Christians. He discovered that one cannot disconnect the faith aspect of Jesus Christ and his teachings. While he did not set out to \\"convert\\" any of his non-Christian students, his looking at the faith aspect seems to have strengthened his own faith. <br /> <br />I do know some of Professor Cox's former students. One jokingly complained at the time that THE SECULAR CITY was published that the book contained insights derived from Cox's classes including one he enrolled in, but he was not getting any royalties from the book. After reading WHEN JESUS CAME TO HARVARD, he made the same claim again. He also purchased a number of copies of the book and gave them as gifts to friends. For people of faith this book offers the challenge to live Jesus' moral teachings, and for people who are not Christian, the book does show how Jesus' moral insights can be insightful for everyone. <br />	2005-03-28
US	34271677	R3IL4G86B5E55	0814620140	462498020	A Risen Christ in Eastertime: Essays on the Gospel Narratives of the Resurrection	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Helpful Guide For Preaching and Personal Study	A RISEN CHRIST AT EASTERTIME is a collection of essays by noted biblical scholar Fr. Raymond Brown. The book discusses the accounts of the resurrection in each of the four canonical gospels. One chapter is devoted to each of the gospels with the exception of two chapters which are devoted to John's Gospel which is not surprising considering Brown is a Johannine scholar. Brown basically looks at each of the gospels and how the individual evangelists use the resurrection accounts to stress the themes of their gospels and how a belief in the actual resurrection of Jesus Christ was essential to each of the early Christian communities that produced these works. Brown presents the scholarly material fort the reader and allows the reader to draw his/her own conclusions about the material he presents.<br /><br />This book is a good summary of scholarship regarding the resurrection, but it is not intended for scholarly use. Its purpose is primarily pastoral as is the case with many of the books published by The Liturgical Press. In the introduction of A RISEN CHRIST AT EASTERTIME Brown asks readers the question \\"What stance would you have taken were you there when this happened?\\" I found that this question guides the reader to Brown's intent. It is not to give the reader a great deal of scholarly information which may or may not shed new insight on the resurrection. Rather Brown intends to give the reader enough information to rethink the resurrection and how this event plays a role in the life of faith. For this reason I would recommend the book to people involved ion ministry, particularly those involved in preaching, as well as people who are familiar with scripture and are looking for a guide that will help them understand the text	2005-03-28
US	34271677	R18HDMFPY4X2VZ	0684819139	915236952	Dictionary Of The Bible	Books	4	25	25	N	N	A Very Good Basic Bible Dictionary	John McKenzie's DICTIONARY OF THE BIBLE is a resource that has been a true friend to me over the years. I first purchased this volume when I taught seventh and eighth graders at a Catholic school in the mid-1980's. Like many Catholics, my knowledge of the Bible was limited and I needed a quick resource to use to answer questions. This easy to use work served the purpose rather well, especially when questions about people, places, events, and words regarding scripture came up in class. I also found it had good background information and enough information to answer most basic questions. For this reason, I can attest that this volume will be very helpful for a teacher who needs a quick and easy reference for the Bible.<br /><br />This volume will probably appeal most to the person who wants a bit of in depth or extra information about the Bible. It is written in clear and understandable language that will make accessible to anyone with an interest in scripture. One note to potential buyers: this reference tool is neither the newest nor the most up to date resource available, so it may not be the best tool for a student or for research purposes. Either Harper Collins or Anchor would probably be a better choice for students and research. However, I still look to this resource when I need quick and accurate information regarding scripture, and since my copy is well worn, I have referred to it many times and have certainly got my money's worth.	2005-03-12
US	34271677	R2EM9Z6JM1GFT1	0814658067	614584767	The Gospel of John (Sacra Pagina Series, Volume 4)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Another Great Volume in the SACRA PAGINA series	Many people have discovered the SACRA PAGINA commentaries and find these volumes both thorough and accessible for use. The volumes include an introduction to the overall work. The work itself is then exegeted. The author usually presents his/her own translation, an overall summary, and a line by line commentary. An extensive bibliography is included after each section which makes it ideal for students. Its ease of use makes it a valuable tool for preaching. Francis Moloney's commentary of John follows the same format as the other volumes in this series. It also follows the series reputation for excellence.<br /><br />Moloney's approach to John's Gospel somewhat rejects what has commonly been believed about John's Gospel. Because so many of the stories seem somewhat disparate, it had been believed that the gospel was a collection of unrelated stories about Jesus. Moloney refutes this claim and sees John's Gospel as having a narrative unity and the stories and conflicts of the gospel reflect the concerns of the Johannine community. Therefore it is important to read his introduction prior to using this commentary. In the introduction includes what a reader should expect. He discusses the pertinent information about Johannine literature as well the controversies surrounding the author of this Gospel (Was the \\"Beloved Disciple\\" actually the Apostle John?) and information about the Johannine community. He also devotes some time to the use of the way in which the gospel's author uses the term \\"the Jews\\" and discusses the importance of sensitivity in using this work, something especially important as far as Jewish Christian relations would be concerned.<br /><br />People who select this commentary will have to spend some time getting accustomed to it. It is organized in an orderly manner, but unlike other SACRA PAGINA commentaries, particularly Luke Timothy Johnson's volume on Luke and Daniel J. Harrington's commentary on Matthew, John's Gospel is less straightforward which requires a different approach in studying.  Moloney's central themes resurface throughout the work so being familiar with his perspective is important. When Moloney's point of view is understood, readers discover one of the bets commentaries on John's Gospel available, and certainly the one of the finest Catholic commentaries that is both true to the gospel and offers a pastoral perspective as well.which requires a different approach in studying.  Moloney's central themes resurface throughout the work so being familiar with his perspective is important. When Moloney's point of view is understood, readers discover one of the bets commentaries on John's Gospel available, and certainly the one of the finest Catholic commentaries that is both true to the gospel and offers a pastoral perspective as well. <br />	2005-03-10
US	34271677	RMAPCQ1I2865C	0809121743	162742103	The Community of the Beloved Disciple: The Life, Loves and Hates of an Individual Church in New Testament Times	Books	4	23	26	N	N	A Good Introduction to John's Gospel	Words such as poetic, beautiful, challenging, baffling, and perhaps even confusing can come to mind when reading or studying the Gospel of John. The fourth gospel is believed to have been written after the three gospels known as the synoptic gospels (Matthew, Mark, and Luke) and unlike the synoptic gospels which share similar backgrounds and sources, John's Gospel takes a completely different direction.<br /><br />Raymond Brown, a respected scripture scholar, and perhaps the best known Catholic scripture scholar, gives the reader an excellent introduction to the community behind the Fourth Gospel and the Johannine epistles. He discusses this gospel, narrated by the so called \\"Beloved Disciple\\" who may or may not have been John, the struggle this community had with Jewish leaders, as well as the community's struggles with other Christian groups. This community was from a different geographic locale than many of the other Christian groups, most notably the Pauline churches, and theologically different from these groups as well. This history of this community spans a period of time that includes the Apostolic era, the Fall of the Temple, and its aftermath. We see the struggles of this community in the gospel itself, and how it derived strength and purpose from the Jesus Christ in the Gospel who is not afraid of controversy.<br /><br />This book was published in 1979 and it has become a standard in studying John, at least from a Catholic perspective. Brown is not without controversy. Throughout his life he was always first and foremost a scholar and at times his writings ruffled a few feathers of more traditional Catholics and no doubt, some people who read the Bible literally. A few of the stronger negative reviews of this work and other works by Brown have stressed the difficulties some have with the writings of the late Fr. Brown. Brown did touch some nerves when he wrote, particularly his writings on the birth of Jesus Christ. For those who are concerned about this book based on some of the other reviews, I do not recall any major doctrinal errors in this book and found it to be solid theologically and biblically. Know too, I do not dismiss such concerns lightly. I did find when I was studying that this work did help me sort through the sometimes confusing elements that are part of John's Gospel and the work has helped me when I am preparing Bible studies and preaching.this book based on some of the other reviews, I do not recall any major doctrinal errors in this book and found it to be solid theologically and biblically. Know too, I do not dismiss such concerns lightly. I did find when I was studying that this work did help me sort through the sometimes confusing elements that are part of John's Gospel and the work has helped me when I am preparing Bible studies and preaching.  <br />	2005-03-02
US	34271677	R2DL1D7POQRMVA	1565124219	946647306	Candyfreak: A Journey through the Chocolate Underbelly of America	Books	5	3	4	N	N	As Enjoyable As A  Candy Bar  Without The Calories	When I read some of the first pages of Steve Almond's CANDY FREAK, he mentioned two candy bars that I loved: the Marathon Bar and Caravelle. I had forgotten these candy bars even existed. I thought the marathon bar was great because it was so long. Math was never my subject so I never bothered to look at the weight to see I was not getting all that much more candy than another candy bar. And I could not agree more about his observations of the Caravelle bar. Reading the pages transported me back in time to my teenaged years working at my father's drugstore which had the best selection of candy in my hometown. Well, actually it didn't. Jimmy's, a store which had one side devoted to liquor and the other side devoted to candy had the best selection and at times the Franklin Newsstand had the better selection, but my Dad's store was close second to both stores as far as selection and quality were concerned.<br /><br />The book mesmerized me. This is not all that surprising. I met Steve Almond just before the book was published. A year ago I was in a writing workshop. He is a friend of a writing instructor and he was a guest at our workshop one evening. I loved the way he got excited when he spoke about developing characters and his passion for writing. His words became more real to me when I read CANDY FREAK. As we meet the not so well known people who supply us with the candy we love, we see them come alive in the way the characters of any good short story or novel would spring to life. We go trotting across the United States visiting regional candy factories and see the stories behind each plant, stories that we probably would not hear when visiting Hershey, M&M Mars, or Nestle, and see a way of life that is in some cases vibrant and in other cases on the verge of becoming extinct. Almond is passionate about the subject, and reveals enough about himself so the reader understands his love of candy, but is a gifted enough writer and that the book is never about him though he is an integral part of it.<br /><br />This book will have an appeal for candy aficionados, the polite term I use for a candy freak. I can also see people who like Americana stories enjoying the book. As a matter of fact, someone who I know appreciated the book was a friend who spends his vacation traveling to small baseball parks and attends local games. His traveling to remote baseball parks gave him a feel for the small factories, some of which were probably located near the parks. CANDY FREAK will find a sympathetic audience with small business owners.<br /><br />Almond's warnings about corporate America, in a forceful but not fanatical tone, will make people think about small businesses and local entrepreneurs. Wal-Mart may not fall in love with Almond's words. I'm sure Wal-Mart sold the book, but if anyone at Wal-Mart read it, it would only be sold grudgingly.<br /><br />For me, what I appreciate most about the book is the writing. The subject was interesting, but Almond's passion is what drives each page and makes it a worthwhile read. My only disappointment: I don't recall the Cho-o-lite bar being mentioned in the book. It was a whipped chocolate bar with crisped rice. It was not the most spectacular example of a candy bar, but I loved it and missed it. I would think that a  book that tells of  obscure candy bars, at least candy bars that are obscure to an a Massachusetts born and raised person, candy bars such as the Idaho Candy's Idaho Spud or Standard Candy's Goo-Goo Clusters, could have included this favorite, but it did not.  However, since the book is enjoyable and I'm giving it five stars, I suppose I can overlook this omission.  Of course, if Choc-o-lite is mentioned and I overlooked it, it's due to being engrossed in the pages.ough he is an integral part of it.  <br /> <br />This book will have an appeal for candy aficionados, the polite term I use for a candy freak. I can also see people who like Americana stories enjoying the book. As a matter of fact, someone who I know appreciated the book was a friend who spends his vacation traveling to small baseball parks and attends local games. His traveling to remote baseball parks gave him a feel for the small factories, some of which were probably located near the parks. CANDY FREAK will find a sympathetic audience with small business owners. <br />Almond's warnings about corporate America, in a forceful but not fanatical tone, will make people think about small businesses and local entrepreneurs. Wal-Mart may not fall in love with Almond's words. I'm sure Wal-Mart sold the book, but if anyone at Wal-Mart read it, it would only be sold grudgingly.  <br /> <br />For me, what I appreciate most about the book is the writing. The subject was interesting, but Almond's passion is what drives each page and makes it a worthwhile read. My only disappointment: I don't recall the Cho-o-lite bar being mentioned in the book. It was a whipped chocolate bar with crisped rice. It was not the most spectacular example of a candy bar, but I loved it and missed it. I would think that a  book that tells of  obscure candy bars, at least candy bars that are obscure to an a Massachusetts born and raised person, candy bars such as the Idaho Candy's Idaho Spud or Standard Candy's Goo-Goo Clusters, could have included this favorite, but it did not.  However, since the book is enjoyable and I'm giving it five stars, I suppose I can overlook this omission.  Of course, if Choc-o-lite is mentioned and I overlooked it, it's due to being engrossed in the pages. <br />	2005-02-27
US	34271677	R2FRTTBID9OMLC	158297246X	419166721	Writer's Guide to Character Traits	Books	3	91	101	N	N	Memorable Characters Are Created By Hard Working Writers	As I read some of the reviews of THE WRITER'S GUIDE TO CHARACTER TRAITS I found a wide variety of points of view. Some love the book, others hate it. One reviewer calls it a guide for lazy writers, others praised it as an excellent resource especially for novice writers. Now I could take one side, or another, or some middle ground position that says that each reviewer is partially correct. I think it depends on how you use the resource and what you want to accomplish as a writer as to whether the book has any merit.<br /><br />If you use the book as a means of developing all of your characters in a short story, novel or play, you will end up with characters that are either stereotypes or clich&eacute;. Some people like stereotypes and clich&eacute;, but isn't one of the challenges of writing trying to present original characters in a memorable way to teach us something about ourselves and give meaning to our world? If you are tempted to buy this book as a dictionary to create characters for a story, use the money you would use for this book and buy some books by Dickens, Austen, or Shakespeare. You could probably buy three since there are mid priced editions of the works of any of these masters and you will encounter memorable and interesting characters. See how the characters are developed and why they speak to us so powerfully, and emulate these great writers in your writing. Of course if you are planning on developing predictable and boring characters you probably stopped reading after the names Dickens, Austen, and Shakespeare were mentioned.<br /><br />Since most of us would rather walk barefoot on broken glass than create a dry, predictable, ordinary character, probably the words above seemed intended for someone else. After all, as we spend countless hours at the computer, writing words we hope will not be considered drivel by our writing groups. We share these words with our mothers and fathers and pray they will not decide after reading our output that our education was a waste of their time and money. We plug away and hope for the day be our works will be included in the same category as GREAT EXPECTATIONS, PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, and HAMLET. So will this book be helpful to those of us who await greatness, hoping it is only a few words away?<br /><br />If you type in my name in the Amazon search, you will not find the great American novel yet, so maybe my recommendation may not be of merit, at least yet, but this is not a bad reference tool to include in a writing library. It should not be the basis for developing main characters. It may help with secondary characters, and it can be used as a checklist of sorts to see if our main characters are believable. The character traits included in the book are based on the norm of a drug addict, cheating spouse, dysfunctional family member, alcoholic, etc. These would also be the traits of someone we might see on television or in a formulaic book. So checking the traits listed in this book could help a writer diversify a character (e.g. not the typical alcoholic underachiever). Basically, the book will be helpful resource for people who have already done the difficult work of characterization, but it is not a substitute fro the hard work of creating characters. In all fairness to the book's author Linda Edelstein, she does not claim that the book is a one step approach to character development, but the book is marketed in this manner.<br /><br />I received this book as a gift by a well meaning friend who knew I was struggling to develop a character in my novel in progress. I probably would not have purchased it on my own. Most of my main characters are already developed but I have used the book to make sure they are somewhat believable and realistic. People who have read my work and like it do say my characters are believable, so this book may have been helpful, but the traits do not seem to make my characters memorable to the people in my writing classes, the dialogue, interaction with other characters and expressions of their emotions and feelings make them believable and in some cases, not believable. If you want the traits to be believable, this book will be somewhat helpful, but it does not do the work of creating memorable characters. Characters that have their life breath coming from a writer who loves and nurtures them and puts them in believable situations where they become real are the characters we remember and can only come from a writer dedicated to the task of writing.th other characters and expressions of their emotions and feelings make them believable and in some cases, not believable. If you want the traits to be believable, this book will be somewhat helpful, but it does not do the work of creating memorable characters. Characters that have their life breath coming from a writer who loves and nurtures them and puts them in believable situations where they become real are the characters we remember and can only come from a writer dedicated to the task of writing.  <br />	2005-02-11
US	34271677	R3BCCKFVT9RTV4	015602800X	627980489	The Sign of Jonas	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Glimpse Into The Life of Merton As Monk And Writer	THE SIGN OF JONAS is a collection of journal entries written by Thomas Merton between 1946 and 1952. The purpose of the book was to introduce readers to the daily life of a monk, though the gifted Merton was hardly a typical monk of his day or any other. Readers will get a glimpse into this spiritual seeker and see the ups and downs of the life of someone who was truly in search of union with God. Since readers of this text are encountering Merton nearly forty years after his death, we read it with hindsight and can see the complexities that are Merton. We have many spiritual nuggets, his daily struggles and his restlessness and the conflicts both within himself and with monastic life. We also see someone who was trying to persevere in the spiritual life which may be one reason why Merton appeals to so many and his life captures so much interest.  Perhaps what I enjoy most I enjoy most about THE SIGN OF JONAS would be the references to his writings and the publication of THE SEVEN STOREY MOUNTAIN. We hear him speak in some entries about edits that have been made by the publisher, references to portions that were edited by the monastery itself (often referred to as censored, but since he was writing it for the benefit of the order, the order did have the right to do some editing) and his love/hate relationship with the book that made him a well know figure.<br /><br />In order to best appreciate this book, I would read it after THE SEVEN STOREY MOUNTAIN. It would also be a good idea to be familiar with the expectations of religious life as well the rigors of the life of a Trappist prior to the reforms of Vatican II. Without a basic knowledge of Merton's life, as well as the circumstances of his life would probably make THE SIGN OF JONAS somewhat confusing. For Merton lovers, this book has so much to offer. I usually like to read it slowly: an entry or two at a time and try to understand what was happening in Merton's life at the time. For me this approach makes his spiritual struggles not all that different from the struggles of the rest of us. Using this approach Merton goes from being a spiritual giant to a fellow traveler which is probably what he would have preferred.spiritual struggles not all that different from the struggles of the rest of us. Using this approach Merton goes from being a spiritual giant to a fellow traveler which is probably what he would have preferred. <br />	2005-01-24
US	34271677	R1HU2O7XJHYC7E	0140277951	685220894	The Dark	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A Wonderful Novel By A Lesser Known Irish Author	To some extent, banned books have a special place in my heart. I recall a local bookstore chain had a sign in its window that advertised a banned book sale. All of the titles on sale were banned at one time or another. One of the titles was THE CATCHER IN THE RYE. I decided to buy it, hoping my parents would take a fit and I could be a bit of a rebel. Both probably read the book and didn't even flinch an eye at their maverick son reading a forbidden book. Of course it was 1980, so it was hardly controversial anymore. A few days later, I had the book in school, and one of my favorite teachers complimented me on selecting a good book to read. She also suggested other titles which moved me past childhood books to more mature literature. In effect, her complimenting my reading selection was a significant step in my becoming an adult reader. Now when I see a banned book display, I often remember her, take a second look, and see what the banned books have to offer. More often than not only hype (the banning of some mediocre books made them instant best sellers).It is by taking a second look at a banned book display I discovered John McGahern's THE DARK.<br /><br />I had heard of McGahern before, and actually own BY THE LAKE. When I learned that the book was banned in Ireland, I immediately thought it had to either offend Church leaders or mention sex. I also expected it to be somewhat shallow. Poking fun at the Church and Irish attitudes toward sex is so commonplace it is clich&eacute;. McGahern avoids this trap and writes a powerful coming of age tale that is both riveting and disturbing. The unnamed protagonist lives in an Ireland similar to the Ireland of ANGELA'S ASHES but unlike Frank McCourt, McGahern paints a portrait using sparse words to give vivid images of a country far behind the modern world. The young man's single father is abusive, yet also tender and loving, which leads to a rather complex and at times twisted love/hate relationship between father and son. While the portrait of the Church is hardly better than that of the overall picture of Ireland, the young man's place in the Church is unsettled as well. The priests and religious of THE DARK are more conflicted than the anti-sex clerics that populate so many books, usually by American authors trying to show their interpretation of Ireland and often do so in a one dimensional manner. Coming to terms with sexuality and attraction also plays a major role in this work, and we find a young man who is confused about normal adolescent feelings, but these confused feelings can at one moment be brutal, but also can be endearingly innocent, especially when he develops his first crushes on girls. We may wonder if the young man will eventually be a priest where he seems headed at times, or the university where he dreams of majoring in science. Readers hope he does not follow in the dead end footsteps of his father whose love and put downs both seem to motivate this determined young man. In order to discover which road he takes, read the book.<br /><br />The pacing of this book is slow, but intentionally so. Readers get to savor McGahern's images and also enter into the mind of the character. The point of view can at time be confusing, but again this is more the intention of the author rather than a literary flaw. Some believe McGahern creates a picture of Ireland rarely seen. I am not sure that this is accurate. He is in keeping with the Ireland we find in the writings of James Joyce, and to a lesser extent Frank O'Connor, and shares their literary gifts.e the portrait of the Church is hardly better than that of the overall picture of Ireland, the young man's place in the Church is unsettled as well. The priests and religious of THE DARK are more conflicted than the anti-sex clerics that populate so many books, usually by American authors trying to show their interpretation of Ireland and often do so in a one dimensional manner. Coming to terms with sexuality and attraction also plays a major role in this work, and we find a young man who is confused about normal adolescent feelings, but these confused feelings can at one moment be brutal, but also can be endearingly innocent, especially when he develops his first crushes on girls. We may wonder if the young man will eventually be a priest where he seems headed at times, or the university where he dreams of majoring in science. Readers hope he does not follow in the dead end footsteps of his father whose love and put downs both seem to motivate this determined young man. In order to discover which road he takes, read the book. <br /> <br />The pacing of this book is slow, but intentionally so. Readers get to savor McGahern's images and also enter into the mind of the character. The point of view can at time be confusing, but again this is more the intention of the author rather than a literary flaw. Some believe McGahern creates a picture of Ireland rarely seen. I am not sure that this is accurate. He is in keeping with the Ireland we find in the writings of James Joyce, and to a lesser extent Frank O'Connor, and shares their literary gifts.     <br />	2005-01-24
US	34271677	R3141LZXI9B2QR	0800617622	343331158	A Short History of the Interpretation of the Bible	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Helpful  Intro to Historical Biblical Interpretation	A SHORT HISTORY OF THE INTERPRETATION OF THE BIBLE, written by Robert M. Grant and published in 1963 and later revised with David Tracy is the standard history of the different ways in which the Bible has been interpreted since the days of the early Church to the mid to late twentieth century. Beginning with how Jesus and New Testament authors used the Hebrew Scriptures, the book continues with the different ways patristic authors, medieval and Renaissance authors, and finally modern authors interpret scripture. What we see is that there was never one way to interpret scripture, which shows how scripture is a continuous living and thriving set of writings. I have found the book helpful not only in understanding scripture, but also theology itself. Scripture is the basis of theology, and understanding the differences between Alexandrian interpretations and the interpretation of scriptures of writers associated with Antioch, the differences between Catholic, Lutheran, and Calvinist interpretations, and how modern scholars see scripture gives insight into theological thought. More often than not, theologians are not biblical scholars, and basing thought in scripture is not their forte. The Grant and Tracy text is a great help with clarification and for me brings together the connection between theology and the Bible.<br /><br />After studying theology and scripture, I have returned to this text for Bible study preparation and preaching. From time to time I will look at various texts and how they have been interpreted through the centuries, which if done well can make scripture study vibrant. Of course the key is when it is done well, but that's another story.<br /><br />Needless to say this text is indispensable for anyone studying scripture. Most exegesis looks not only at the text but also the ways it has been interpreted over the centuries. This book gives an overview that will make historical exegetical work easier. If this is not a required text for theological study, I would advise people who wish to study scripture or theology to buy this readable and valuable volume. It will undoubtedly answer questions that will arise. I only have one caution and it's not about the book but the binding. I have owned two copies of this book. The first I purchased in the seminary and before long the pages fell out due to poor binding. The same is happening with the second. This should not prevent a person from buying the book, but it is a warning that it may not be as well as it could be.l study, I would advise people who wish to study scripture or theology to buy this readable and valuable volume. It will undoubtedly answer questions that will arise. I only have one caution and it's not about the book but the binding. I have owned two copies of this book. The first I purchased in the seminary and before long the pages fell out due to poor binding. The same is happening with the second. This should not prevent a person from buying the book, but it is a warning that it may not be as well as it could be. <br />	2005-01-23
US	34271677	RLYPD4ZO2WO09	0385502982	871925912	The House Where the Hardest Things Happened: A Memoir About Belonging	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	How Does It Feel To Be Left Out?	I am relatively well read in religious memoir, and more often than not, I find they follow either one of two paths. The first can be an \\"Amazing Grace\\" path where the person has made several serious errors in life and comes to faith, much like John Newton, the author of the words of the song of the same title who went from being a slave trader to an abolitionist. The other common theme is a person who has faith as a child, looses or abandons the faith, and then rediscovers its richness. I see the validity of both paths, find the stories moving, and usually gain a new insight into the ways in which God works. I assumed that Kate Young Caley's THE HOUSE WHERE THE HARDEST THINGS HAPPENED would follow one of these two well worn paths. It follows neither which gives it a unique flair from the beginning.<br /><br />The story behind this memoir is distinctively different. Kate Young Caley did not loose or abandon her faith. The Young family belonged to a small, seemingly fundamentalist church that had strict rules about congregants' behavior. When the mother of the family took a job to support her sick husband and three young children, the congregation voted her out because her job involved serving alcohol, which was against church rules. Suddenly, the child Kate, who loved church and Bible lessons, could not understand why church was no longer part of her life. As she grew, she learned the story of what happened, the effect it had on her parents, and learned what it means to be left out of a community that is supposed to be loving and welcoming. Years later, she found a welcome in the Episcopal Church, but still had a longing for the church of her youth and still felt the wounds inflicted by this congregation. Yet it also taught her to be welcoming and non-judgmental.<br /><br />I've tried to think about who could benefit from this memoir most. My guess is that the book is aimed at people who have been ostracized by faith, either blatantly as this congregation did, or those ostracized in ways that may not be as obvious, but still painful. Kate Young Caley's journey can be an inspiration. Yet I can't help but wonder if the group that this book could help most, would be those active in churches today. The book makes the reader realize the pain of rejection in general, but how that rejection is even more compounded when it happens in the context of faith. The book challenges us to see the Christ in others and remember how hurtful the wrong action can be. Kate Young Caley is happily a member of a congregation. Far too many people have been hurt or have seen loved ones hurt by churches and are not in the pews, perhaps never to return, even though they have so much to give.<br /><br />My only criticism of the book could be its lack of completeness. I would like to know a bit more about why Kate Young Caley selected the Episcopal Church as well as how her faith helped her when she battled various illnesses. These topics are part of her present book, but I would love to see them fleshed out a bit. The only way this can be remedied would be by another book or two which tells these stories. This would be wonderful since we would once again be exposed to the truthful and beautiful writing of Kate Young Caley.those ostracized in ways that may not be as obvious, but still painful. Kate Young Caley's journey can be an inspiration. Yet I can't help but wonder if the group that this book could help most, would be those active in churches today. The book makes the reader realize the pain of rejection in general, but how that rejection is even more compounded when it happens in the context of faith. The book challenges us to see the Christ in others and remember how hurtful the wrong action can be. Kate Young Caley is happily a member of a congregation. Far too many people have been hurt or have seen loved ones hurt by churches and are not in the pews, perhaps never to return, even though they have so much to give. <br /> <br />My only criticism of the book could be its lack of completeness. I would like to know a bit more about why Kate Young Caley selected the Episcopal Church as well as how her faith helped her when she battled various illnesses. These topics are part of her present book, but I would love to see them fleshed out a bit. The only way this can be remedied would be by another book or two which tells these stories. This would be wonderful since we would once again be exposed to the truthful and beautiful writing of Kate Young Caley.  <br />	2005-01-15
US	34271677	R3B4GU29ELMLKY	0913573868	580137710	The Works of Josephus: Complete and Unabridged, New Updated Edition	Books	5	192	198	N	N	A "Must Have" Standard Resource	People spend a great deal of time interpreting scripture, and for good reason. For believers, the Bible is not just a historical document, but the living word of God. Still, as we research scripture, we want to know what life was like in the days of Jesus, and how the people of Jesus' day lived and interpreted scripture so we can better understand scripture in our own day. Perhaps the most important tool for such a task would be the writings of the Jewish historian Josephus.<br /><br />Josephus himself was an interesting figure. He was born to a well to do Jewish family of the priestly class. He was a religious seeker and studied under the Pharisees and spent some time living an ascetic life. He later developed connections with Rome, and tried unsuccessfully to end the Jewish rebellion. His association with the Romans made him a bit of a turncoat to many people, but his involvement in many spheres of life in the years of the Jewish revolt gave him the opportunity to write a thorough history of his times, understanding the religious, political, and social dimensions of the day. It is largely through the writings of Josephus we understand the world of Jesus' day, and ultimately Jesus himself, even though there is only one questionable reference to Jesus in the writings (modern scholars belive this was probably a patristic insertion or at least a reworking by patristic writers).<br /><br />This edition of the writings of Josephus is an excellent tool for non-scholarly Biblical study. Whiston's translation has been a standard for years and provides a good translation for preparation for preaching, Bible studies, and people who have an interest in scripture that would be deeper than the interest of a casual reader. I know I have used this volume with Bible study groups over the years, and from time to time research topics in the book for homilies. While there are updates in this edition, this is probably not the best resource for people engaged in scholarly studies, except as a source for background information or a basic familiarity with the historian and his writings. There are newer translations that would be preferred by most instructors on the college level, but for everyday use this volume is a great find at a reasonable price.except as a source for background information or a basic familiarity with the historian and his writings. There are newer translations that would be preferred by most instructors on the college level, but for everyday use this volume is a great find at a reasonable price. <br />	2005-01-08
US	34271677	R20ZFE25DTO4M7	0814658032	579140633	The Gospel of Matthew (Sacra Pagina Series, Vol 1)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	An Excellent Commentary by a Top Scholar	I first became familiar with Daniel Harrington's commentary on Matthew's Gospel for the SACRA PAGINA series when I took a graduate class on the gospel. It was the text used for the course.I found it very informative, giving an excellent background to the gospel itself and leading to interesting class discussions. As I did exegetical work on various gospel texts, again I found the commentary helpful as a basis for research and a valuable in pointing to other sources for further study.<br /><br />The commentary is set up the way that is similar to other volumes in the series. A brief introduction to the Gospel of Matthew is followed by the author's translation of the gospel text. The events of the gospel are broken into smaller units. For each smaller unit there is a line commentary which emphasizes important words and lines in the story. This is followed by an overall discussion of the text which highlights religious, historical, and social issues involved in the story. In many cases in this commentary, Harrington not only discusses the issues of the ancient world by adds how these issue can be of concern to us today.<br /><br />I no longer use the book for formal research, but turn to it time and again for preparation for preaching and Bible studies groups. Here I have found the commentary most helpful. Harrington's book has scholarly value, but it is written in such a way that it highlights concerns in the text which still concern people today which gives it pastoral value as well. One small example which immediately comes to mind is Harrington's discussion of Jesus' Baptism by John. He not only points out the differences in the synoptic accounts of the events, but the possible historical difficulties and struggles within the early Church, and what the focus should be when preaching or teaching this text. At this point my copy of the book is well worn, a tribute to the many times I refer to it.<br /><br />As I read some of the other reviews, I noticed that one reviewer noted that this commentary is primarily for Catholics. Since Daniel Harrington is a Jesuit priest, and the Liturgical Press is a Catholic publishing company, the work is certainly Catholic oriented, and since I am also writing from a Catholic perspective, I see this as a plus for the work. However, when I took the course on the Gospel of Matthew which was taught at a Catholic seminary, there were many in the class who were not Catholic, and they seemed to be the people who were most impressed with the scholarship. It was authentic to the Biblical text and had as its goal making scripture accessible to everyone.ne reviewer noted that this commentary is primarily for Catholics. Since Daniel Harrington is a Jesuit priest, and the Liturgical Press is a Catholic publishing company, the work is certainly Catholic oriented, and since I am also writing from a Catholic perspective, I see this as a plus for the work. However, when I took the course on the Gospel of Matthew which was taught at a Catholic seminary, there were many in the class who were not Catholic, and they seemed to be the people who were most impressed with the scholarship. It was authentic to the Biblical text and had as its goal making scripture accessible to everyone.  <br />	2005-01-08
US	34271677	RG7539ET99X2I	068485743X	934544519	The First Five Pages: A Writer's Guide To Staying Out of the Rejection Pile	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Book Filled With Practical Information and Insight	As long as I can remember, I have always wanted to write a novel, and for the past few years I have been at work at trying to complete a manuscript. I have taken workshops, joined writing groups, and have devoted a great deal of my free time to this pursuit. If I am being honest, I now make sure that part of each day is devoted to writing or revising and try not to schedule anything else in this block of time, so my free time is not devoted to writing, I reserve time to write that would otherwise be free time and spend my free time figuring out what I'll be doing when I write.<br /><br />When I first started looking for books to read about the writing process, Amazon would always recommend THE FIRST FIVE PAGES as a title I may be interested in purchasing. To some extent I avoided it. The author is a literary agent and I wanted to finish what I was writing first before thinking seriously about publication. Yes, I do hope to be published and yes, if I am ever published I hope to make money though I have enough friends who have been published to know the realities of the world of writing. I decided I should avoid reading anything by anyone in the business, read only classics about writing by people such as John Gardner, Brenda Uleand, or Anne Lamott, and spend my time writing. Well, I changed my lofty plans and read THE FIRST FIVE PAGES and found it very helpful.<br /><br />The book is well written and practical. Its greatest strength is helping the writer know mistakes to avoid. It also tells what will help a reader and ultimately convince a publisher believe a work should be published. Lukeman presents actual problems and ways these problems can be avoided. Much of what he has to say is common sense, yet I found that many of the things he tells a writer to avoid were on the pages of my writing, and judging from the workshops I have participated in, the pages of other writers as well. Much of what Lukeman states in his book can be found elsewhere, but he states things in such a way that the reader will take notice and apply his suggestions to writing.<br /><br />In the course of the past few years I have taking writing classes and seminars, all offered by published authors, and much of what they have said as far as advice is concerned can be found in this book which has given it a credibility in my eyes. I have also found the book helpful when I have a specific question. Lukeman's writes in a way that is both informative and easy to read. I found myself reading the entire work in a few sittings, but since that time have returned to the book to reread various portions. The chapters are concise and organized so it not only inspired me to write, but has become a reference tool as well. Now this is not to say that after reading this book I became a perfect writer, and since I have not sent a manuscript to be published, I cannot vouch that his suggestions will keep a work from being placed in the infamous rejection pile. Yet the book has helped me decide what I will include in my work and what will go in my own rejection pile.ings in such a way that the reader will take notice and apply his suggestions to writing.  <br /> <br />In the course of the past few years I have taking writing classes and seminars, all offered by published authors, and much of what they have said as far as advice is concerned can be found in this book which has given it a credibility in my eyes. I have also found the book helpful when I have a specific question. Lukeman's writes in a way that is both informative and easy to read. I found myself reading the entire work in a few sittings, but since that time have returned to the book to reread various portions. The chapters are concise and organized so it not only inspired me to write, but has become a reference tool as well. Now this is not to say that after reading this book I became a perfect writer, and since I have not sent a manuscript to be published, I cannot vouch that his suggestions will keep a work from being placed in the infamous rejection pile. Yet the book has helped me decide what I will include in my work and what will go in my own rejection pile.  <br />	2005-01-05
US	34271677	R1IYRAXFH4XWIL	067003360X	795980882	Homer for the Holidays: The Further Adventures of Wilson the Pug	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Perfect Book For Pug Lovers	I love dogs. Sometimes I wonder who doesn't. As a child I was a bit frightened of dogs, but this phobia confounded me for while I had a fear of dogs, I also loved them. My fears were cured when a mixed of Great Dane and German Shepherd came to live at our house. Is exposure to a potential monster dog the best way to eliminate a fear of dogs? Probably not, but in my case it worked. Now at my mother's house there is always a resident pug. Pugs are sometimes referred to as \\"dogs that are so ugly, they're cute.\\" I'm not sure they're ugly, but they are cute. They are also lovable and have pesky, yet endearing personalities. Pugs are as lively as large dogs but easy to care for, which makes them perfect for just about everyone. Pugs also love to be photographed, and pug books with photographs and greeting cards with pugs are both popular with people in general and especially with pug lovers. Anyone who loves pugs will immediately fall in love with HOMER FOR THE HOLIDAYS, a book that truly captures everything that is quintessential pug.<br /><br />Now I almost gave HOMER FOR THE HOLIDAYS only four stars, but I figured pug lovers would gang up on me. Seriously, I did want to give the book only four stars due to the story. It involves Wilson the Pug who is looking for a good deed to do, and meets up with a young puppy named Homer who is searching for a home. The two go through all sorts of adventures and misadventures until a home is found. The story is cute and teaches lessons about the life through references to Chinese Tao philosophy. Readers should note that it is easy to mistake this book for a children's book, and while there is nothing in it that would be objectionable to children, it is probably not a read at bedtime book unless the child listening to the story is somewhat sophisticated.<br /><br />So why the five stars? The photographs. Pugs are probably the most photogenic breed of dog and photographer/writer Nancy Levine captures the pugs in a variety of shots. One minute we see the pugs' dignity, the next we see their natural curiosity, as well as their loveable and amusing sides. Pug lovers will love the book for the photos alone, and as someone who has tried to capture pugs on film, it is a task that is harder than it looks. This book will be the perfect holiday gift for pug lovers, and anyone who enjoys these amusing dogs.s. One minute we see the pugs' dignity, the next we see their natural curiosity, as well as their loveable and amusing sides. Pug lovers will love the book for the photos alone, and as someone who has tried to capture pugs on film, it is a task that is harder than it looks. This book will be the perfect holiday gift for pug lovers, and anyone who enjoys these amusing dogs.   <br />	2004-12-05
US	34271677	R2ZB1GNH6QKB0X	1579652638	209465348	Change Your Underwear Twice a Week: Lessons from the Golden Age of Classroom Filmstrips	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Nostalgic Look At A Time Gone By	There's something almost magical about filmstrips, even today. When I began teaching, it was in the mid-1980's and the school had a VCR. All the best educational materials were on video, but every time I found a filmstrip that might be useful and showed it to the class, it captured the students' imaginations the way that nothing else did. Sure they were old fashioned, and sometimes out of date, but the kids loved them. They would be fascinated with the old machines which were used to show these little stories that taught some sort of lesson or told a story.  Some of the filmstrips were \\"high tech\\" which had a cassette or LP which accompanied it. The story would be told by a narrator and a beep would be provided to move the strip along. Of course the kids thought they were stepping into a time machine. When I was in school, filmstrips were a part of everyday schooling.<br /><br />Anyone who attended school in the 1950's-70's will enjoy this book, and may even find a filmstrip that will recall a memory or two. The book is divided into sections and actual filmstrips used in classrooms are provided as graphics. While the author has some fun with the strips themselves, he also provides lessons about why the filmstrips were used and the role filmstrips played in education. Filmstrips kept students informed, taught lessons on citizenship, and what was appropriate behavior. The America of the filmstrips was white, middle class, and patriotic. While readers cannot help but be amused at this nostalgic trip back in time, it is also a bit jarring to see how a large segment of society was excluded from filmstrips.<br /><br />I got a laugh out of what is called \\"the propaganda\\" section of the book. It had a filmstrip on bread and the importance of bread in the diet and showed bread in production. While it was probably produced by the bakers of Wonder Bread, the actual plant where the bread is baked has the generic name \\"Your Local Baker\\" so it would not be too commercial. I remembered seeing this actual filmstrip and I'm sure believed every word. It recalled rainy days in elementary school when we missed recess and as a \\"treat\\" got to see filmstrips.<br /><br />Enjoy!!!remembered seeing this actual filmstrip and I'm sure believed every word. It recalled rainy days in elementary school when we missed recess and as a \\"treat\\" got to see filmstrips. <br /> <br />Enjoy!!! <br />	2004-12-01
US	34271677	R1YN5M3WWYAB3B	1582344043	537404137	Sixpence House: Lost in A Town Of Books	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Book Lover's Paradise	SIXPENCE HOUSE is a book I stumbled upon accidentally. I suppose this is an appropriate way to find a book such as this, since much of the book takes place in Hay-on Wye, a Welch town known for its used and antique bookstores. When the book takes place, the author Paul Collins, his wife and their child have moved to this small town so that Paul can concentrate on his writing, become re-acclimated with his heritage, be totally imbibed in a literary atmosphere, and raise the child in a different atmosphere than San Francisco, where the couple lived prior to the move. In the book we get to know Paul's immediate family, his new neighbors, the trails of purchasing a home in a different country, and titles of fascinating books none of us will probably ever read since the titles are long out of print. We also see Paul complete the finishing touches on his first book BANVARD'S FOLLY.<br /><br />This is not a book I sat down and read cover to cover. I usually read it at times when I was a bit tired and needed to be transported to a different place. Collins' descriptions are vivid and I imagined vicariously being in his situation-a situation any book lover would envy. For booklovers and writers, SIXPENCE HOUSE is a must, but anyone who enjoys reading the work of an author who can take something routine and make it interesting will find the book a true gem. Personally I cannot wait to visit Hay-on-Wye and find some of the treasures of Collins' book myself.	2004-11-25
US	34271677	ROHW7WGSCZBKK	630881234X	362991556	Joy to the World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Christmas Gift from Joan Sutherland	Joan Sutherland's JOY TO THE WORLD, a Decca re-release that was recorded in the 1960's is one of the greatest operatic Christmas collections available. Sutherland is in her vocal glory and this collection has wonderful examples of her vocal talents. In my opinion, her \\"O Holy Night\\" is one of the greatest recordings of this carol available. Her feeling in \\"What Child is this?\\" is moving. She shows off her embellishments in \\"The Twelve Days of Christmas\\" (what prima donna does not do the same?) and she handles \\"O Divine Redeemer\\" beautifully. What I appreciate most about this collection is that it is not about Joan Sutherland. Sutherland, like her contemporaries Loentyne Price and Renata Tebaldi presents a beautiful collection of Christmas carols and musical gems that demonstrate her many gifts but allow the music to take center stage. The New Philharmonia Orchestra conducted by Sutherland's husband Richard Bonynge accompanies Sutherland beautifully and the Ambrosian Singers add variety to the collection as well.<br /><br />Buy this recording as a gift and you'll find the recipient will consider you a friend for life that is if you can resist parting with it.<br /><br />Enjoy!	2004-11-25
US	34271677	R1QR8MAI5L3UVO	156584937X	443253926	Hope Dies Last: Keeping The Faith In Troubled Times	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Must Read for Troubled Times	HOPE DIES LAST is an oral history of various personalities collected by renowned social commentator Studs Terkel. Terkel has collected stories from just about every conceivable category of people: teachers, politicians, clergy people, business people, young people, and old people, you name it, the group is probably represented in this book. Each oral history tells the story of someone who has maintained hope in a challenging or difficult moment. The situations vary, but each is meant to help us navigate in these very trying and uncertain days after September 11, 2001.<br /><br />In his introduction, Terkel says that \\"Hope never trickles down. It always springs up.\\" This book will certainly help people see that hope does spring up in third world countries, in violent city streets, in classrooms, churches, and just about everywhere else. This book will be helpful for just about anyone, whether facing a  challenge or not. Teachers and clergy people will find the book very helpful since so much of the work of educators and members of eth clergy is keeping faith alive.	2004-11-25
US	34271677	R3KTUKSU12HIB9	1565848373	537044785	Hope Dies Last: Keeping the Faith in Difficult Times	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Maintaining Hope in Challenging Times	HOPE DIES LAST is an oral history of various personalities collected by renowned social commentator Studs Terkel. Terkel has collected stories from just about every conceivable category of people: teachers, politicians, clergy people, business people, young people, and old people, you name it, the group is probably represented in this book. Each oral history tells the story of someone who has maintained hope in a challenging or difficult moment. The situations vary, but each is meant to help us navigate in these very trying and uncertain days after September 11, 2001.<br /><br />In his introduction, Terkel says that \\"Hope never trickles down. It always springs up.\\" This book will certainly help people see that hope does spring up in third world countries, in violent city streets, in classrooms, churches, and just about everywhere else. This book will be helpful for just about anyone, whether facing a  challenge or not. Teachers and clergy people will find the book very helpful since so much of the work of educators and members of eth clergy is keeping faith alive.	2004-11-25
US	34271677	R2MJ5QW89Q59XG	6308812412	172379957	Christmas Festival	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Beautiful Christmas Gift From Renata Tebaldi	Decca has been perusing the vaults and re-releasing some classic recordings. Renata Tebaldi's CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL is one such recording. Originally released in 1971, it is a wonderful example of Tebaldi's artistry. While her voice is somewhat darker in this recording than in some of her earlier recordings, the arrangers seemed to know how to highlight Tebaldi's vocal majesty in tracks that suit her voice.<br /><br />It is a standard operatic Christmas recording-traditional Christmas carols and some religious songs that are not necessarily Christmas pieces, but fit the mood of the holiday season rather well. Tebaldi sings reach track with ease. In some tracks we find the glory and artistry that is trademark Tebaldi, particularly when she sings \\"O Holy Night.\\" We have renditions of both versions of \\"Ave Maria\\" (Gounod and Schubert). The Gounod is very well done. \\"Panis Angelicus\\" is heavenly. Her rendition of \\"O Divine Redeemer\\" reminds me of her Desdemona of OTELLO (the Karajan version with Mario Del Monaco in the title role) when she sings the \\"Willow Song\\" and then moves into the Hail Mary. To me, this is one of Tebaldi's greatest recorded moments. While the music differs, she performs \\"O Divine Redeemer\\" with the same intensity and feeling as her Desdemona. An added bonus is her English diction. I have become used to most operatic recordings of Christmas music having beautiful moments vocally, though the English diction is poor (Placido Domingo and Pavarotti's Christmas recordings quickly come to mind), but this is not the case with Tebaldi, who carefully sings each English word. It is perhaps attention to detail that makes this recording outstanding.<br /><br />This recording is truly a classic and fortunately its re-release ensures it will be a favorite for years to come.	2004-11-24
US	34271677	R3QQ6IJ2RZV8RY	082941729X	708794236	Best Catholic Writing 2004	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An Excellent Sample of Contemporary Catholic Writing	As anyone who is even remotely interested in spiritual reading knows, keeping up with the vast number of titles that appear each year could be a full time job. Finding the opportunity to read everything would mean doing little else. Fortunately Brian Doyle has done a favor for those who are looking for an excellent sampling of the variety of Catholic writing available and collects it in THE BEST CATHOLIC WRITING 2004.<br /><br />Many of the contributors will be familiar to Catholic readers. Familiar names include James Martin SJ, Lawrence Cunningham, Kathleen Norris, Pail Elie, Andrew Greeley, Mary Anne Glendon, Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, and Doyle himself. Others may not be as well known, but each presents something that demonstrates what it means to be Catholic and how Catholicism is lived today.<br /><br />Understandably, many of the writings deal with the importance of recognizing the gifts of the laity in the Church which is essential at this point in Catholicism. The current scandal in the Church is also touched upon in many articles. Yet there are also stories about Catholic heroes, day to day life, challenges of ministry, as well as the gift that is the catholic faith. The individual points of view of the authors represent the whole of the Church and are reflective of the different points of view that can be found in Catholicism today. The writings show that what makes us Catholic is not so much as conformity as it is humanity.<br /><br />While there are many \\"Best of...\\" type books on the market today, this is the first attempt by Loyola Press to collect the bets of Catholic writing. I hope there will be a 2005 version as well.	2004-11-04
US	34271677	R2EOMVKKE0MS67	0300100442	791893184	First Nights at the Opera	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Almost Like Being at the Premiere	Thomas Kelly's FIRST NIGHTS AT THE OPERA is bound to be loved by opera aficionados as well as people just beginning to be fascinated with a musical form that is both intricate and beautiful. Kelly selects five operas: Handel's Gulio Cesare, Mozart's DON GIOVANNI, Mayerbeer's LES HUGUENOTS, Wagner's DAS RHEINGOLD, and Verdi's OTELLO, and brings the readers to their premieres. Kelly gives us information about each composer, the story of the works themselves, a history of how each work was composed and the difficulties surrounding each production, the effect that each work had on the musical world of its day and how the work is still relevant today. We also get a good deal of information of the performance itself, those who sang the principal roles, the conductors, impresarios, and anyone else involved in the production. Much of Kelly's information is not unique to his book, though his presentation is original and his inclusion of interesting graphics and a number of relevant historical documents regarding each work make this work an invaluable resource. His writing style makes the subject approachable, something not all authors who attempt to write about opera can claim.<br /><br />As I read the book, I began to long for December and the beginning of live opera broadcasts from the stage of the Met. The in depth analysis of each work presented in a user friendly format made reminded me of the intermission features which are presented during the radio broadcasts from New York's Metropolitan Opera House. These broadcasts introduced me to the world of opera and Kelly's book reminds me why I love this form of music so much.<br /><br />If you love opera, you owe it to yourself to add this book to your collection. If someone you love enjoys opera, this book will be the perfect gift that will be enjoyed for years to come.	2004-11-04
US	34271677	R257VJFWVO1YC3	0060633999	555529494	What Makes Us Catholic: Eight Gifts for Life	Books	4	27	33	N	N	How Do We Live As Catholics?	I was recently talking with someone who had read Thomas Groome's WHAT MAKES US CATHOLIC. She said \\"I did not recognize the Church in this book.\\" While this may sound like a good reason not to purchase the book, it was actually a ringing endorsement. This woman was recently returning to the Church and it helped her realize the richness of her faith, a faith that has been tested, and in recent years marred by scandal, but none the less a faith that at its best mirrors Jesus Christ.<br /><br />While Groome himself is a professor of theology and religious education at Boston College, the work is not a catechism of sorts. It does not explicitly talk about what the Church teaches, but how the Catholic faith can shape a person. Groome focuses on eight areas that affect the lives of Catholics: grace, the sacramental way of life, community, scripture and tradition, social justice, reaching out to others, and spirituality. In each are he focuses on hat it means to live each of these areas, which for a Catholic is essential, since the Catholic faith is one that is based on lived experience (contrary to what some may think). Her also uses the gift of Catholic imagination, so much a part of Catholicism, but often neglected. The end result may be a Catholic faith that is not instantly recognizable, but if one looks through history and the way in which many Catholics live today, it is a Catholicism that is real and very much a part of human life.<br /><br />The book was first published in 2002, just as the current scandal in the Church was making the headlines in newspapers across the country, and throughout the world for that matter. For many who read Groome's book at that time, it was a reminder of what the Church has to offer and why it needs to be saved. This alone makes the book a gift to the Church. From a spiritual point of view, it is a great book to re-infuse a person's faith and give it a fresh perspective. Catachetically it is a great book to be used in RCIA programs. It is a readable book that will be an important resource for years to come.s. It is a readable book that will be an important resource for years to come.  <br />	2004-11-04
US	34271677	R3UAGSJILL27F6	0385493738	422219355	Wounded Prophet: A Portrait of Henri J.M. Nouwen	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Great Introduction to Henri Nouwen's Life and Writings	Michael Ford does not consider his book on Henri Nouwen a biography as much as a portrait, and I believe he is correct in saying his book is the latter. While it does contain biographical information, it accomplishes far more than that. We get to know Nouwen from his writings, from interviews with colleagues and friends, and from his public speeches. We discover a man of great faith, dedicated to helping others find God in their lives. We also meet a gifted writer and a man of both intelligence and talent. We meet a man who loved others deeply but did not always feel loved. We also meet a man who was authentic. He never wrote at people, but for people, and often had to learn the lessons he was trying to impart. We do not meet a perfect man, but one who had struggles and difficulties throughout his life. He knew what it meant to be loved by God, what was required of one who followed Christ, but never claimed perfection.<br /><br />Ford's book is an excellent introduction to Nouwen, and will no doubt inspire those who have never read Nouwen's works to do so. It will also be of benefit to those studying Nouwen's writings. Ford does not paint a rosy picture of the man. He writes honestly about his faults and struggles. The only criticism of the book could be he tries to hard to defend Nouwen, who really needs no one to defend him. His writings and witness to faith are all the defense he needs. Still, this can be excused since it is also evident that Ford has great love and respect for the man.	2004-10-11
US	34271677	RQF12UU86VNFW	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Moving Refolection on Grief and Loss	C.S. Lewis is now being credited for being Christianity's greatest defender in the 20th century, and the writer who gave faith credibility at a time when faith seemed a childish delusion.  The reason so many of Lewis' writings have been a strong defense of faith probably has less to do with his actual beliefs, as much as his skill as an orator and writer. His detractors will readily admit that, knowing that if you may not agree with his conclusions, it is difficult to fault his arguments. Yet for people of faith, logic is nice, but it is often too dry. The lived experience of faith is far more significant than rhetoric. For people of faith who love and admire Lewis, A GRIEF OBSERVED is indispensable. This work, which deals with the grief an loss he experienced when his beloved wife Joy suffers from cancer and eventually dies, demonstrates Lewis' own struggles with belief, and demonstrates that for Lewis, his faith is not a  philosophical point of view, but the motivation of his life.<br /><br />Since its publication, readers have turned to this work for a number of reasons. Most have either lost someone they love or are trying to assist someone with loss.  Readers soon discover that the book challenges the reader, then consoles the reader, and immediately challenges once again. Readers feel a whirlwind of emotions, giving a glimpse of the emotions we feel in a time of grief. In Lewis we find a person who truly mourns, but one who gives us an example on faith that is shaken and tested, but is ultimately solid. Countless readers have discovered that Lewis' experiences resonate with their own, and have made this work a spiritual classic.<br /><br />When I first read A GRIEF OBSERVED, I had not yet lost anyone significant in my life or at least anyone who was significant who was not aged and had lived a full life. I still had an appreciation for what Lewis had to say, but it was a bookish knowledge. Since that time I have lost loved ones and have seen loved ones suffer, especially my own father, who died young and battled cancer in the form of a brain tumor for nearly twenty years. It was while sitting at his bedside a week before he died that Lewis' words seemed so real to me, and I realized I was not alone in how I felt. I have no idea of whether I recalled Lewis' words as I sat by my father's bedside, but I know my faith was tested at that time, but my faith sustained me as well. I also know that Lewis' struggles in A GRIEF OBSERVED were somewhere in my unconscious mind, helping me though and giving me hope.fer, especially my own father, who died young and battled cancer in the form of a brain tumor for nearly twenty years. It was while sitting at his bedside a week before he died that Lewis' words seemed so real to me, and I realized I was not alone in how I felt. I have no idea of whether I recalled Lewis' words as I sat by my father's bedside, but I know my faith was tested at that time, but my faith sustained me as well. I also know that Lewis' struggles in A GRIEF OBSERVED were somewhere in my unconscious mind, helping me though and giving me hope. <br />	2004-09-25
US	34271677	RH6TEKXNNKYQW	0877931976	348577514	In Memoriam	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A Heartfelt Look at Grief and Loss	IN MEMORIAM could be called Henri Nouwen's version of C.S. Lewis' A GRIEF OBSERVED. Just as Lewis looked at the questions of good and evil, faith and loss in his classic work about the death of his beloved wife, Nouwen looks at these same issues in this work about losing his mother. When IN MEMORIAM was first published, there were some critics who believed that Nouwen was too quick to publish this work and that he still had grieving issues to work out, yet very quickly the book found an audience with people who believed that Nouwen was speaking directly to the heart. To be fair, the relationship between Nouwen and his mother is too idealized, and in later writings he speaks more honestly about his relationship with his mother. Yet this idealization is the honest way many of us feel after an immediate loss. When faced with loss, even the worst of sinners becomes an instant saint. It's only later we look at a person's life in a more realistic manner. Some of his answers about life and death may seem to simplistic, yet readers who know Nouwen's writings know that when Nouwen wrote, he was writing for himself as much as for his readers, and the struggles he tries to help readers understand are his own struggles. In the end, what we discover is a person who tries to look at loss in the light of faith and we do so by reading the words of a writer who honestly shares what he is feeling at the moment of loss.<br /><br />The power of IN MEMORIAM does not come from Nouwen's insights into death, loss, and grief, as profound as these insights happen to be. Rather in Nouwen's work we find someone who is struggling with these questions and invites the reader to struggle as well. In a sense Nouwen becomes a companion with his readers. He offers a sense of hope, which is what Nouwen attempts to do in most of his writings, and judging from the lives he has touched, obviously succeeds in doing.	2004-09-25
US	34271677	R2PDEZ2OGRARDK	0877935742	939234727	A Circle of Friends: Encountering the Caring Voices in Your Life	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Spirituality of Friendship	What role do our friends play in our live sand how can these friends help us to experience God? Noted spiritual writer Robert Wicks and his friend/publisher Robert Hamma attempt to answer this question. The two examine the role of friends in their lives and look at their own professional and personal relationship. They offer four images of friends for us to ponder. They divide friends into four basic categories: the prophet who is able to see our potential and lead us in that direction; the cheerleader who is our strongest supporter; the harasser who can challenge us and lead us in ways we may not wish to go; and the spiritual guide who for most people would be a spouse or closest companion. The book has echoes of the writings of St. Aelred of Rivaeux, though he is not mentioned specifically.<br /><br />Using this book in a discussion group can be interesting and it can also be used as a model of a retreat with people for all ages. Most of all, this book helps the reader appreciate the people that touch our live sand how we can come to know God through these people.	2004-09-24
US	34271677	RU4HNARK1CQZK	1573226998	962216603	The New Men	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Very Different Look at the Formation of Catholic Priests	Brian Murphy's THE NEW MEN is a unique look at preparation of Catholic priests. The author, raised a Catholic, but has been somewhat a lapsed Catholic as an adult, looked at men preparing to be priests. He found young men who were far more interesting than he expected and found in them a faith that was more alive than he suspected. While the subject matter of the book is not all that original, his choice of seminarians is intriguing. Murphy selected candidates preparing for priesthood at the North American College in Rome. Candidates live at the North American College and study at various institutions in Rome. The seminarians in the book reflect the variety of vocations in many American seminaries. Some are raised in traditional Catholic families; others have made discoveries about faith that led them to pursue priesthood. Each has a love for the Church and aspires to serve God as a priest. While none of the candidates is an example of perfection, none of the candidates exemplify what we find in books about Seminarians by Donald Cozzens or the drivel found in Michael Rose's book. Each candidate is a solid person who has left behind great opportunities, girlfriends, and a promising future.  We discover that these young men with great gifts also have the same struggles as anyone else. What makes the book fascinating is that w may be reading early snippets of the lives of future leaders of the Church.<br /><br />I am going to have to admit, when I first read this book a few years ago, I was somewhat cynical about it. While I was impressed with many of the personal issues the seminarians dealt with, it did at time strike me as corporate training for leadership in the Church. While I know that the Church needs competent leaders, the book sometimes seemed to be a Wall Street approach to preparing for priesthood rather than a gospel based approach. That was pre-scandal, however. As I look at this book today, knowing that the scandal has highlighted many of the failures of the Church's leaders, and knowing that many people fear for the future of the Church, this book does give us glimpses into the lives and training of some young men who could very well be leaders ion the Church in the future, and it does give us reason to hope.f the Church's leaders, and knowing that many people fear for the future of the Church, this book does give us glimpses into the lives and training of some young men who could very well be leaders ion the Church in the future, and it does give us reason to hope.  <br />	2004-09-24
US	34271677	R1I6UFV3FCB4DG	1573222461	491032736	Walking a Literary Labyrinth: A Spirituality of Reading	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An Approach To A Spirituality of Reading	WALKING A LITERARY LABYRINTH is a book I stumbled upon accidentally, but it is one that seems tailor-made for people like me who love to read and wish to incorporate their reading into their spiritual lives. The author, Nancy Malone is Roman Catholic nun and a member of the Ursuline order. In the book we meet the author as a child and as the book progresses we learn about her progress in religious life. We also discover how reading has touched her life. She shares the wisdom she has acquired along the way, and offers some reflections to help reading buffs see ways in which literature can help us understand our world and grow closer to God.  The literature that inspires her spiritually is vast. Sources include classic writings of Christianity, classic and popular pieces of literature, biographies, and a variety of non-fiction. Since she is a Roman Catholic nun, her insights are very Catholic, stemming form her faith tradition, but are catholic in the universal sense of the word. The literature that nourishes her spirituality leads her to God and helps her to find God in new ways. She invites readers to do likewise.<br /><br />Sometimes I hear some people whop read books on spirituality complain that the book is the same information, just a different author. Nancy Malone's book is fresh and offers its readers a new way of drawing closer to God and seeing God in a new way.	2004-09-20
US	34271677	R1LKJ2G2RI96SQ	1594480028	409940244	Walking a Literary Labryinth: A Spirituality of Reading	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Approach To A Spirituality of Reading	WALKING A LITERARY LABYRINTH is a book I stumbled upon accidentally, but it is one that seems tailor-made for people like me who love to read and wish to incorporate their reading into their spiritual lives. The author, Nancy Malone is Roman Catholic nun and a member of the Ursuline order. In the book we meet the author as a child and as the book progresses we learn about her progress in religious life. We also discover how reading has touched her life. She shares the wisdom she has acquired along the way, and offers some reflections to help reading buffs see ways in which literature can help us understand our world and grow closer to God.  The literature that inspires her spiritually is vast. Sources include classic writings of Christianity, classic and popular pieces of literature, biographies, and a variety of non-fiction. Since she is a Roman Catholic nun, her insights are very Catholic, stemming form her faith tradition, but are catholic in the universal sense of the word. The literature that nourishes her spirituality leads her to God and helps her to find God in new ways. She invites readers to do likewise.<br /><br />Sometimes I hear some people whop read books on spirituality complain that the book is the same information, just a different author. Nancy Malone's book is fresh and offers its readers a new way of drawing closer to God and seeing God in a new way.	2004-09-20
US	34271677	RGQY0WGMR3VHP	0553560700	410535508	Acts of Faith	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not Very Original But Rather Enjoyable	A few weeks ago I was looking for an old book and stumbled across ACTS OF FAITH. It was a book that I read years ago, but perused it again. Even those who love the book will have to admit it is a canned, predictable story. Timothy is a stereotypical Irish potential urchin who later becomes a priest. As a youth he comes into contact with a Hassidic Jewish family. He befriends the son who is about the same age and falls in love with a young woman in the family named Deborah. Tim and Deborah are separated, meet one day and engage in a passionate moment that surprise: results in a  pregnancy. Many years later, Tim meets his love child. Meanwhile Daniel, who is expected to follow in his father's footsteps as a Rabbi, but discovers he has to do so in his own way. Very Neil Diamond JAZZ SINGER, if you ask me.<br /><br />The first time I read the book, I could not put it down. Yes I knew what would happen. What else could be expected from the writer who penned LOVE STORY which contains what may be the gaggiest line in the English language \\"love means never having to say you're sorry?\\" Well, just as LOVE STORY had something that  compelled readers and moviegoers alike, ACTS OF FAITH does too. Segal knows his Catholicism and his male lead character of Timothy Hogan is not clich&eacute;. Deborah, the female lead character has her complexities as well. The characters are so compelling they move the plot, and somehow it all becomes believable. The characters do struggle with life, love, family conflict and faith, issues we all deal with in one way or another.<br /><br />This is the perfect \\"waste time\\" book. It is just taxing enough for a vacation. It is easy enough to read on a hectic subway train or bus while commuting to work. It can make a sick day from work a bit easier to take. It's just an enjoyable read-nothing all that sophisticated but certainly not a waste of time.	2004-09-19
US	34271677	R32J1KZK9R7RA6	0375410295	747135422	Saul and Patsy: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Enjoyable Book With Rich Characters	Charles Baxter is a writer whose books I have seen in bookstores, but until recently I had not read, with perhaps the exception of one of his short stories. Friends suggested some of his books, particularly THE FEAST OF LOVE, and I purchased a few titles, including his most recent novel SAUL AND PATSY. I had heard from some of these friends that SAUL AND PATSY was not as good as some of his other works, but now that I have started THE FEAST OF LOVE, I think I am seeing that \\"not as good\\" Charles Baxter is better than much of what is available.<br /><br />Readers who enjoy strong character based novels should enjoy SAUL AND PATSY. The plot revolves around a young couple Saul and Patsy who reside in a Midwestern town. Neither are locals and the two have to adjust to a different way of life. We see the couple transition from enjoying the freedom of being a young married couple still in love to the responsibilities of parenthood. We see Saul's somewhat neurotic manner as contrasted to Patsy, who in general is freer to be herself. Saul is aware of prejudices about his Jewishness, even if the prejudice is somewhat disguised. While their lives should change drastically when their first child is born, a series of bizarre events involving a troubled young man are what really change the two.<br /><br />There are some characters in the book that could probably be deleted, and at times can be somewhat distracting, but in the end they do help us come to know Saul who is the strongest character in the book. Readers who enjoy plot-driven novels should be aware that the pace of the novel is probably its weakest point. In the hands of other writers, the tension would probably have developed earlier, and the resolution would be somewhat clearer. Yet of the action of the novel was faster paced, the richly developed characters would probably be less developed.	2004-09-15
US	34271677	R3TJLQOZSND0BZ	0944344585	455650073	The Gospel of Mary of Magdala: Jesus and the First Woman Apostle	Books	4	34	42	N	N	Presents an Interesting Point of View in a Scholarly Manner	There has been quite a deal of interest in the person of Mary Magdalene in the past year due in no small part to Dan Brown's THE DA VINCI CODE. Chances are if you see Karen's King's THE GOSPEL OF MARY MAGDALA: JESUS AND THE FIRST WOMAN APOSTLE in any bookstore, it will be grouped with other books about Mary Magdalene as a way of promoting Brown's book. King's book is not meant to be fiction and readers looking for support of the information in Brown's nook will be somewhat disappointed. People with an interest in early Christianity and Biblical scholarship will not be disappointed, however.<br /><br />King's book is a scholarly presentation of an early Christian document called \\"The Gospel of Mary.\\" The portrait presented in this gospel is rather different from that of the Bible. In the Gospel of John, the only follower who truly understands Jesus is \\"the Beloved Disciple\\" and in The Gospel of Mary, only Mary truly understands \\"the Savior\\" and the other disciples are fumbling around a bit. While this may be accurate, Peter and the apostles' foibles are well documented by the four evangelists, the Gospel of Mary is a post-resurrection account. If we look at writings such as \\"The Acts of the Apostles\\" we see the Christian community as one where harmony with occasional misunderstandings is the order of the day. An alternate view is presented in \\"The Gospel of Mary.\\" In this writing we see the befuddlement of some of the male apostles. As anyone should expect in a study of any ancient text, King provides context for understanding \\"The Gospel of Mary,\\" looks at it as an individual piece, and compares and contrasts it to traditional Christianity. She also includes a thorough bibliography, a tool much appreciated by people involved in research, and a glossary of sorts that will assist people who are not familiar with early Christian writings (or those of us who have not studied them in recent years). It is probably not necessary to state that King does not hold the point of viewe that Mary of Magdala was a reformed prostitute, a point of view that was correctly debunked yaers ago.<br /><br />When I purchased this book, I was not looking for a new approach to Christianity, nor was I looking for hidden or lost documents of Christianity that will shed light on the errors of mainline Christianity for the past 1500 years. I am a Catholic with a keen interest in biblical studies looking for something that will give me a new perspective on scripture. I have found in the actual \\"Gospel of Mary\\" spiritual snippets that are interesting, and King's scholarship gives me a slightly different perspective of early Christianity. The book is interesting, but has not radically reshaped my understanding of Christianity, but I have always looked at the history of Christianity from a realistic and human point of view.<br /><br />I also realize that some people interested in this book may be aware that \\"The Gospel of Mary\\" would have been considered heretical by Christian leaders in its day. Of course we need to remember that some of Origen's writings were deemed heretical at one time. Meister Eckhart was likewise called a heretic. Even Thomas Aquinas, who many consider the ultimate in orthodoxy, was considered questionable in his day. Looking at \\"The Gospel of Mary\\" in a new way is appropriate and something King does rather well. With this in mind, I am not certain that the \\"Gospel of Mary\\" is necessarily a document that was suppressed without a good reason. First of all, it is not really a gospel. The canonical gospels and even The Gospel of Thomas are not post-Pentecost settings. The latest event in the canonical gospels is the Ascension. This is not the case of \\"The Gospel of Mary which seems to be post Ascension. \\"The Acts of Mary\\" rather than \\"The Gospel of Mary\\" may be a more accurate title of the work, since it resembles other early Christian writings in the \\"acts\\" genre. Also, in an age when many people are feeling excluded in mainline Christianity, an ancient writing that proposes a different way of looking at Christianity is intriguing, but those who originally adhered to this work would have been exclusive, so to speak, seeing others as not understanding. So this work that some are embracing because it is inclusive from our point of view, are actually embracing a work that in its day would have been exclusive. While the individual approach expressed by \\"The Gospel of Mary\\" is somewhat what we believe the interior life, which is so important in Christianity is all about, there is also a communal dimension which the canonical gospels stress, but is not really found in the fragments used in the translation of \\"The Gospel of Mary.\\"istianity, an ancient writing that proposes a different way of looking at Christianity is intriguing, but those who originally adhered to this work would have been exclusive, so to speak, seeing others as not understanding. So this work that some are embracing because it is inclusive from our point of view, are actually embracing a work that in its day would have been exclusive. While the individual approach expressed by \\"The Gospel of Mary\\" is somewhat what we believe the interior life, which is so important in Christianity is all about, there is also a communal dimension which the canonical gospels stress, but is not really found in the fragments used in the translation of \\"The Gospel of Mary.\\"  <br />	2004-09-13
US	34271677	R23GQ0PLKMRE9G	0385496095	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	4	8	11	N	N	An Interesting Story of Conversion and Faith	I am not sure what I expected when I began to read Anne Lamott's TRAVELING MERCIES, except that I would probably enjoy the book. After reading BIRD BY BIRD, her volume about writing and the literary life, where she mentions the role of faith in her life, I decided to purchase the book and read it.<br /><br />Perhaps the best way to describe Anne Lamott is to say that she is a contradiction in the interesting and best meaning of this word, and for Lamott, this is a compliment. The story of her coming to faith and becoming a practicing Christian has all the same qualities of a standard Christian conversion, but the way she lives her faith is anything but typical. She is proud to be a free thinking liberal, but she belongs to a Church that is filled with the stereotypical \\"church ladies\\" whom she admires. She is a close friend with a number of Catholic priests, yet she would probably have some issues with a number of Catholic teachings. She is not enamored of right wing fundamentalists, but while her opinions may differ from theirs, she shares their conviction. She is hardly conventional, but then again Jesus Christ was not either, and his followers were not conventional either.<br /><br />While the picture of God in this book is clearly Anne Lamott's version of God, the book is hardly a \\"God and Jesus Christ in my terms and my terms only.\\" Lamott struggles with living a life of faith, acknowledging that her life now is always better than her life before faith, but not always easier. Throughout the book we get a sense that Lamott see how far she has come in faith, but also knows that she has a ways to go. In other words, she is just like all believers, a work in progress, which gives all of us a sense of encouragement.	2004-09-10
US	34271677	R2GDD95FVSQIVV	0809138492	750512976	Preaching Better: Practical Suggestions for Homilists	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Perhaps the Best Guide for a Catholic Homilist	A friend of mine recently shared a quote with me which I believe was said by Jimmy Breslin. According to Breslin, the reason Catholic priests cannot preach is because they have never rebelled. Priests are trained to respect authority, not rebel. Breslin, on the other hand has been somewhat of a rebel, as his writings sometimes show, so he may have a point, but it is also a gross overstatement since there are many wonderful Catholic homilists. That being said, there are also many people who are dissatisfied with the preaching in Catholic churches and it is not due to disagreeing with Catholic teaching. It is due to poor preparation. It would be wonderful if all Catholic homilists read at least some of Kenneth Untener's PREACHING BETTER, a solid book about preaching by a beloved and experienced Catholic leader. If rebelliousness makes for a good writer and preacher, then the person of Kenneth Untener would also prove his point.<br /><br />The late Bishop Kenneth Untener was loved by many because of his less than predictable approach to ministry. While he was criticized by some as being too liberal, his life was that of an effective follower of Christ. Everything he did was geared toward the people he served. He did not live in a bishop's house, preferring instead to live in rectories throughout his diocese. This enabled him to be part of the communities he shepherded and listen to the priests of his diocese. From what we know about Jesus Christ, he also traveled from place to place to be part of the community and always knew the needs of his leaders. Not a bad example to follow.<br /><br />If there is one work that could become part of Bishop Untener's legacy, it is PREACHING BETTER. The book is geared toward the Catholic homilist, whether the homilist is a priest, deacon, catechist, or lay preacher, but I am certain that people of other denominations can appreciate his tips and wisdom. The reason I say it is geared toward Catholic preaching is due to the fact that Untener stresses the importance of the homily to the entire liturgy, and acknowledges that some of the sloppy practices that have developed in some Catholic churches stem from a belief that a good homily is nice, but not essential since many Catholics would attend Mass for the Eucharist anyway. He sees a clear connection between Eucharist and preaching the Word. He also believes that preaching is a means by which the scriptures can still be living and vital today. He gives suggestions for self review but also encourages preachers to have people who will critique homilies. He acknowledges that many people in Catholic ministry can have hectic preaching schedules between Sunday Masses, daily Mass, weddings, funeral, and other occasions that require a homily, but does not believe that so many demands are an excuse for poor preaching.<br /><br />There are a number of wonderful homiletic books available, and many have been penned by experts in preaching and public speaking. For me, Untener's book does not have the expertise of some of the books that are available, but this is not a criticism since this volume has what many of these books lack. Untener's observations and hints seem to be based on his own ministry, his successes and his failures, and his desire to be an effective preacher.t Untener stresses the importance of the homily to the entire liturgy, and acknowledges that some of the sloppy practices that have developed in some Catholic churches stem from a belief that a good homily is nice, but not essential since many Catholics would attend Mass for the Eucharist anyway. He sees a clear connection between Eucharist and preaching the Word. He also believes that preaching is a means by which the scriptures can still be living and vital today. He gives suggestions for self review but also encourages preachers to have people who will critique homilies. He acknowledges that many people in Catholic ministry can have hectic preaching schedules between Sunday Masses, daily Mass, weddings, funeral, and other occasions that require a homily, but does not believe that so many demands are an excuse for poor preaching. <br /> <br />There are a number of wonderful homiletic books available, and many have been penned by experts in preaching and public speaking. For me, Untener's book does not have the expertise of some of the books that are available, but this is not a criticism since this volume has what many of these books lack. Untener's observations and hints seem to be based on his own ministry, his successes and his failures, and his desire to be an effective preacher.  <br />	2004-09-10
US	34271677	R3P01J49K5Y2Y2	0824516486	513925808	Romancing The Holy: Gateways to Christian Experience	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to Spiruitual Practices	ROMANCING THE HOLY is one of the most creative books about prayer and the spiritual life that I have read. In this her first book, Ms. Farrington speaks about traditional Christian practices such as joining a church, retreats, spiritual direction, the Rosary and somewhat new practices such as spirituality groups and online spirituality. She has a way of respecting what each practice is all about, while also giving the practices a fresh interpretation for living a spiritual life in today's world. As a manager of a theological bookstore, she is an insider as far as faith is concerned, but she also knows what it feels like to be on the outside since she rediscovered her faith as an adult. Perhaps her insider/outsider perspective is what makes the book so appealing. Her writing gives new life to traditional spiritual; practices that can enrich anyone's spiritual journey but does so in a way that is inviting to people who may be new to Christianity or giving faith another chance.	2004-09-08
US	34271677	RTGXXC9DK5WYL	0156010860	734553685	The Seven Storey Mountain	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An Enduring Spiritual Classic	Thomas Merton's \\"The Seven Storey Mountain\\" is one of the classics of Christian literature and was one of the best selling books of the twentieth century. It will last well into this century as well. There is something about a worldly man giving up so much of the promise that life has to offer to live the austere life of a monk. While the book somewhat echoes St. Augustine's \\"Confessions,\\" we see more of the emptiness of Merton's life prior to his conversion to Catholicism than we would find in Augustine's work as well as the role that faith played in his life. Readers are fascinated with Merton's life, and even if it cannot be emulated by most of us, we admire Merton's willingness to enter a monastery and it helps us re-evaluate our own faith.<br /><br />One of the things that I find interesting about \\"The Seven Storey Mountain\\" is the way it can speak differently to a person over the years. I first became acquainted with the book when I came across an old, dusty and mildewy copy of the book in our cellar. I was probably in the sixth or seventh grade and decided to read it but put it down after one page when I was told I was too young to understand it. This inspired me to one day read the book. I finally read it while I was in college and saw Merton as an adventurer, and could relate to the boldness of his actions and the reality of his faith. As I have gotten older and reread the book or passages of the book, I see his writings differently, yet they still speak to me. Merton becomes less of a bold maverick and more of a person seeing what our hearts are all seeking, but not necessarily finding it. He becomes less of a hero and more of a person whose flaws speak as powerfully as his insights and discoveries about faith. In this way he is very much like his literary ancestor, St. Augustine.<br /><br />Over the years interested in Merton seems to grow. At the time this review is being written, his works are being republished and a biography of Merton using his actual journal is now available. This first book is essential for anyone who has even a casual interest in Merton. Readers with an interest in Merton may also find Paul Elie's \\"The Life You Save May Be Your Own\\" helpful as well. This book, which also looks at the lives of Walker Percy, Flannery O'Connor, and Dorothy Day, puts Merton in both a historical and literary context.ctual journal is now available. This first book is essential for anyone who has even a casual interest in Merton. Readers with an interest in Merton may also find Paul Elie's \\"The Life You Save May Be Your Own\\" helpful as well. This book, which also looks at the lives of Walker Percy, Flannery O'Connor, and Dorothy Day, puts Merton in both a historical and literary context.  <br />	2004-09-06
US	34271677	R14WDVOTP80FBW	1401359590	972958684	Perspectives On the Passion of the Christ: Religious Thinkers and Writers Explore the Issues Raised By the Controversial Movie	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Needs a Bit More Perspective	The film THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST has certainly caused a stir in the United States and abroad. The film has its defenders as well as its critics and has been labeled a Godsend by some and controversial by others. It has also led to many discussions. To aid in discussion of the film, a book PERSPECTIVES ON THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST has been published. The book is a collection of essays which talk about significant concerns of the movie. The contributors are from a variety of backgrounds, both Christian and Jewish, and do their best to point out the problems and difficulties in this film. Many of the contributors were advisors on the Gibson project, and we learn as we read that some of their concerns were well received, and other concerns ignored. There are essays which state the concerns that the movie could be interpreted in anti-Semitic ways. Given the fact that there are people who still use the scriptures as a basis for anti-Semitism and extremist groups love food for fodder in their atrocious activities, concerns about the film are justified and necessary. There are also essays regarding the ways Catholics view the film as opposed to Evangelical Christians and discussions about Jesus Christ in America today. There is even a tongue-in-cheek essay about the movie industry by comic Steve Martin. All of these essays are well written and give the reader something to ponder, and religious educators points which should be covered if the film is used in an educational setting.<br /><br />While I do appreciate the points of view of many of the contributors of this volume, I do not believe it really gives the reader, for lack of a better word, perspective. Perhaps this is the reason, I found the book lacking. While critical essays are important, we also need essays by people who actually liked the film. As someone who saw the film, appreciated its merits while agreeing with some of the criticisms, I saw something else going on in the minds and hearts of most people I know who have viewed the film. The movie touched people in a way that very few films do, at least films that are as mass-marketed as THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST. If we really want a book that gives perspective, we need to read about the ways that this film moved people and what it says about faith in America. We need essays which tell us why more people saw the film than attend Church on a regular Sunday and what churches are doing right and wrong when it comes to evangelization. How do people of different cultures view this film? What doe this film tell us about suffering and injustice? When people I know talk about this film, these are the issues that arise.<br /><br />If there is one thing that THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST succeeded in doing, it is getting people to talk about Jesus' death on the cross. In America, we like our Jesus to be the guy in sandals preaching love and justifying our points of view. We only look at part of Jesus. \\"The Passion\\" made us look at the part we like to ignore, but cannot ignore. THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST has made people look at faith once again, and wrestle with ancient texts in a modern world. Regardless of how one feels about the actual film, this new discussion is a good thing, and perhaps a second volume of perspectives, which highlights some of the positive ways the film has impacted Christians would be helpful.now who have viewed the film. The movie touched people in a way that very few films do, at least films that are as mass-marketed as THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST. If we really want a book that gives perspective, we need to read about the ways that this film moved people and what it says about faith in America. We need essays which tell us why more people saw the film than attend Church on a regular Sunday and what churches are doing right and wrong when it comes to evangelization. How do people of different cultures view this film? What doe this film tell us about suffering and injustice? When people I know talk about this film, these are the issues that arise.  <br /> <br />If there is one thing that THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST succeeded in doing, it is getting people to talk about Jesus' death on the cross. In America, we like our Jesus to be the guy in sandals preaching love and justifying our points of view. We only look at part of Jesus. \\"The Passion\\" made us look at the part we like to ignore, but cannot ignore. THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST has made people look at faith once again, and wrestle with ancient texts in a modern world. Regardless of how one feels about the actual film, this new discussion is a good thing, and perhaps a second volume of perspectives, which highlights some of the positive ways the film has impacted Christians would be helpful. <br />	2004-09-06
US	34271677	R1GUWD2V0HZHFK	0879075392	389231665	The Spiritual Meadow: By John Moschos (Cistercian Studies)	Books	4	29	29	N	N	You Can't Judge This Book By Its Cover	I know the old expression \\"You cannot judge a book by its cover\\" is perhaps the most overused clich&eacute; in the English language, but I assumed that a book titled \\"The Spiritual Meadow\\" with flowers on its cover would be a sweet, or at least semi-sweet title with ancient tried and true spiritual quotes, a Desert Father's Lite so to speak. Well, it's not. If anything, the Desert Fathers could be described as \\"Spiritual Meadow Lite\\" rather than the other way around.<br /><br />The book itself is an example of an early Christian travel tale. John Moschos traveled to visit the monasteries in Palestine and the book is a recording of his observations, the stories he heard, and the wisdom he learned along the way. The people we meet in the book are serious about the Christian life, and the importance of austerity. There are no excuses for anything but the best from all followers, and readers could wonder if anyone could truly be a follower of Christ. The stories themselves can be a bit difficult for modern Christians to understand, and could seem so far removed from today that the writings are little more than a curiosity. Readers could decide that the writings are too severe, and in some cases, anti-Semitic, at least by our standards. Some of these thoughts were my immediate observations after reading many of the excerpts, especially of I read these writings too critically. Yet when I think about the time in which these monks lived, the power of their witness, and their dedication to God, and this is where the power of this work can be found, and makes it timeless. From a historical point of view, we get an up close and intimate look at early monasticism.<br /><br />Potential readers should note that the translation of this work is literal. Some of the pieces are available only in fragmentary form and this is how it is presented. This is a plus for the work in my estimation. Readers can wrestle with the actual text rather than what a translator feels the text is missing.g.	2004-09-01
US	34271677	R1A5D48B8ZFQHG	0824515889	878304515	Intimacy With God: An Introduction to Centering Prayer	Books	4	176	176	N	N	An Explanation and Defense of Centering Prayer Techniques	It is my guess that people who are looking at this title are already familiar with Trappist priest Thomas Keating and his championing of centering prayer. It is also likely that people who are familiar with Keating may know something about the controversy that surrounds the man and his technique of centering prayer. Perusing some of the criticisms of his book \\"Open Mind, Open Heart\\" by some Amazon readers will highlight both the admiration many have of this man, as well as some of the controversy. While some of the objections to centering prayer have merit if centering prayer becomes just another form of meditation, this is not due to Keating's writings as much as a misreading of his works or a misunderstanding of his intentions.<br /><br />In this work, Keating sets out to further explain the technique of centering prayer. While he does use some psychology in this work, it does so not contain the heavy psychological point of view that some of his other writings contain (at least not in the detail), nor does he focus too heavily on non-Christian traditions of meditation. Instead he discusses centering prayer and roots in the Christian tradition. He also offers personal reasons why this technique is so important for him, namely that he saw many people who are Christians traveling to other parts of the world searching for something that is an important part of Catholic monasticism. The book was published in the 1990's, after years of trial and error concerning the centering prayer, as well as his success at leading workshops that introduced many people to those form of prayer, and the book contains many anecdotes he learned along the way.<br /><br />Keating clearly sees the importance of centering prayer as a way of connecting with God, and entering into the presence of God. While he views it as a solitary activity by its nature, he strongly suggests that people who participate in centering prayer be part of a larger faith community, and if possible a centering prayer group. He espouses spiritual direction. The book also espouses what he calls \\"Divine Therapy\\" where hurts that are deep within us can be surfaced and healed in a spiritual manner, though he is also careful to state that this is not a replacement of psychological therapy.<br /><br />This book compliments Keating's other writings and can help the reader come to a deeper understanding of centering prayer and the part it can play in a Christian spirituality.group. He espouses spiritual direction. The book also espouses what he calls \\"Divine Therapy\\" where hurts that are deep within us can be surfaced and healed in a spiritual manner, though he is also careful to state that this is not a replacement of psychological therapy.<br /><br />This book compliments Keating's other writings and can help the reader come to a deeper understanding of centering prayer and the part it can play in a Christian spirituality.	2004-09-01
US	34271677	R2BYW1625U9AO9	0385480016	980380074	Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Great Introduction to the Literary Life	People love Anne Lamott's \\"Bird by Bird.\\" I know published authors who sing its praises, writing instructors who highly recommend it, aspiring writers who consider its words as deserving the honor given to a divine text, and people who are interested in the literary life simply enjoy it. When I finally got around to reading the book, I understood why so many people find this book both endearing and helpful. It's a hard book not to love.<br /><br />The curious title of this book is based on a story from her childhood. Her brother had an assignment to write a term paper about birds, but procrastinated and at the last minute, began to panic. He hoped his father would save the day, but dear old dad simply gave him the advice to get busy and begin writing his paper on birds one at a time, bird by bird. This has become a motto of sorts for Lamott, who begins her writing bird by bird. In the book Lamott gives a good amount of \\"how to\\" advice. She talks about the importance of writing regularly and reading voraciously. She has insights into mechanics such as plot, dialogue, characters, writing workshops, revision, etc. Any reader of a book about writing should expect as much. It is not the \\"how to\\" content that makes this book such a gem. Lamott will offer reflections about an aspect of writing, and will clearly state what she wishes to say, then will go off on what appears to be a tangent, bring in varied pieces of information that appear to have nothing to do with the topic, then with great skill puts everything together into a cohesive whole. This is no accident on Lamott's part, and what she ends up doing is writing not only about literary mechanics, but about the literary life itself. She offers a way of looking at the world and shares her life and wisdom in the process. Readers feel a connection with the author which makes her advice relevant, and in doing so invites would be writers to invest themselves in their writing.<br /><br />It is my guess that most people who purchase this book have more than a passing interest in writing. If you are looking for a basic \\"nuts and bolts\\" book, this may not be the best title for you, but purchase it anyway. Lamott will want to convert you. In the book she mentions many people who attend her workshops hoping to learn the secrets of writing. She understands these people who believe that a reasonably good idea and the hope of getting published and maybe even getting rich, and introduces them to the literary life. If you hope to write and wish to appreciate the writing life more, then you will love this book and its unique author who gives a reader so much in a rather short amount of space.who purchase this book have more than a passing interest in writing. If you are looking for a basic \\"nuts and bolts\\" book, this may not be the best title for you, but purchase it anyway. Lamott will want to convert you. In the book she mentions many people who attend her workshops hoping to learn the secrets of writing. She understands these people who believe that a reasonably good idea and the hope of getting published and maybe even getting rich, and introduces them to the literary life. If you hope to write and wish to appreciate the writing life more, then you will love this book and its unique author who gives a reader so much in a rather short amount of space. <br />	2004-08-27
US	34271677	R1LB5JXNE7NXEB	0877936390	377725506	A Saint on Every Corner: Glimpses of Holiness Beyond the Monastery	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a Pilgrim Shares His Experiences	Albert Holtz is a Catholic priest and a member of the Benedictine Order. When he celebrated his twenty-fifth year as a priest, he was given the opportunity to leave his formal ministry of teaching and administration and take a sabbatical year for travel and personal renewal. In the classic style of a Christian pilgrim, he left his monastery in New Jersey with little more than his traveling bag, a habit, a Bible, a breviary, a sketch pad and empty journals and began his journey. Most of his travels took place in Europe though he traveled to Paraguay and Bolivia as well. While traveling he recorded his observations and drew some sketches. He later used these writings and drawings for the content of his book.<br /><br />Fr. Holtz has a folksy writing style that will engage readers as he shares his insights and observations. I have had a copy of this book for years and will pick it up from time to time and always find something interesting and insightful. Readers can read the book as a whole or could easily use its small chapters as a basis for spiritual reading, prayer, and reflection. Though he traveled the world to see examples of holiness and God's grace, his writings are a reminder that glimpses of God can be found just about everywhere if only we look.	2004-08-25
US	34271677	R3KXBRZ21ZXYSK	074322311X	843173984	Green Grass Grace: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	A Good First Novel With A Great Main Character	About a year ago, every time I logged on to Amazon, it seemed as if the book GREEN GRASS GRACE was recommended for me to purchase. I am not sure why this title was constantly recommended to me, but it looked interesting to me and I ordered it.<br /><br />This is McBride's first novel and it shows the promise of this young author. McBride creates a lovable main character in Hank Toohey, a thirteen year old growing up in an Irish-Catholic blue collar Philadelphia neighborhood in the 1980's. Readers see that life is not all that easy for the young man and we feel empathy for him, as well as for his family that has had its share of life's difficulties. Still we enjoy his antics, and genuinely want things to go well for him. His plans to propose to his girlfriend are meant to improve things for his family, and for a thirteen year old, something so outlandish could seem to work. McBride also creates other compelling characters that keep the reader involved. These people are flawed, as we all tend to be, but McBride crafts the characters in a way we like them, or at least understand them if they are less than likeable.<br /><br />The book has many positive qualities: a compelling plot, lovable characters, and a clear writing style. This is not to say that the book is perfect. I did feel at times as if McBride relied on clich&eacute;s and stereotypes. The Irish characters love to drink. The nuns in the book sound more like those that taught me, rather than nuns of the 1980's. I say this because I know that nuns were different in these decades. I attended Catholic schools like those mentioned in the book and know what Catholic school was like in the late 60's./early 70's. I taught in Catholic schools in the 1980's and schools were very different in these decades, at least in the New England area, but the school that Hank attends is out of an earlier time, and one that has been portrayed over and over again. Also, I have taught and/or worked with young people around Hank's age since 1985. While young teens can be somewhat oversexed and use words that begin with \\"f\\" frequently, puberty is not all they think about and the \\"f\\" word is not the only word in teenaged vocabularies, but it does play a major role in this book. I suppose we tend to remember ourselves somewhat differently from how we really were, and more than likely all readers will see a bit of themselves in the characters of this book, which may be what makes it so appealing overall.e since 1985. While young teens can be somewhat oversexed and use words that begin with \\"f\\" frequently, puberty is not all they think about and the \\"f\\" word is not the only word in teenaged vocabularies, but it does play a major role in this book. I suppose we tend to remember ourselves somewhat differently from how we really were, and more than likely all readers will see a bit of themselves in the characters of this book, which may be what makes it so appealing overall.	2004-08-18
US	34271677	R24DL9GF6UY818	0895872404	935390609	Nags Headers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Interesting and Informative Local History	On a recent trip to the Carolina Outer Banks, I saw a book called NAGS HEADERS and found myself asking \\"Who are these Nags Headers?\\" Since I have enjoyed reading about various New England sea coast people, I thought I would broaden my knowledge and extend it to the people of the North Carolina coast.<br /><br />Nags Head is one of the vacation resort communities in the Carolina Outer Banks, near where the Wright Brothers had their first flight and the Cape Hatteras National Seashore. The book tells how this sandy peninsula went from what appeared to be wasteland to become a beloved vacation community. The history is told through the eyes of the first families who vacationed here and many whose decedents still continue to vacation in Nags Head. We hear about the strong characters with temperaments that would be just as at home in Maine or Cape Cod, but also have a char that is unique to Nags Head. We learn about people who weathered many of the nation's worst storms (the Outer Banks is a favorite place for hurricanes to hit land) and the bonds that developed between the families. We also get a glimpse of North Carolina history, including some civil rights history as it touched this community.<br /><br />I am certain that people who have vacationed in Nags Head will enjoy this book, but it will also be of interest to people who enjoy local history, particularly since the author includes writing samples from actual people who are decedents of the first Nags Head families or people who worked for them.	2004-08-18
US	34271677	R3XZY052MIMSV	080063165X	717794948	Peter: Apostle for the Whole Church (Personalities of the New Testament)	Books	5	24	28	N	N	A Long Overdue Study of St. Peter	When we look at the earliest days of the Church, usually two names come to mind: Peter and Paul. As far as St. Paul is concerned, we have many of his writings still intact which give us a very good picture of the person behind the writings. When it comes to St. Peter, we have a bit of a challenge when trying to reconstruct the historical person. We have the gospel stories which at time area less than flattering, the accounts from Acts which may be more flattering, but do not help us understand the person behind the stories. We also have the legends regarding Peter, but these may not be historically accurate.<br /><br />Pheme Perkins, in her book PETER, APOSTLE FOR THE WHOLE CHURCH,  looks at the person of Peter. In her readable and highly informative book, she looks at the varying aspects of Peter's life from a scriptural perspective. She begins with an overview of the life of Peter based on the scriptural references then looks at the ways in which Peter is portrayed in the four gospels. She also looks at Peter's role in Acts as well as in the writings attributed to him. Since her focus is scholarly, she does look at the legendary stories regarding Peter since they do play a role in our understanding of Peter, but the focus of the book is scriptural which is only fitting since she is a New Testament scholar. She also includes a chapter on the role of Peter as Bishop, which will important for Catholic readers.<br /><br />I had Professor Perkins in class when she completed this work and I anxiously looked forward to its publication. When it was first published, it was difficult to find but its republication by Fortress Press has made it more accessible. Perkins has a keen mind for scripture, and writes in away that is easy for a less trained reader but challenging enough to offer insight to more advanced students and scholars. In this book, she takes a biblical figure she admires and gives him the scholarly attention that is due. It is my belief that this book will become the authoritative study of Peter and a basis for future studies.l become the authoritative study of Peter and a basis for future studies. <br />	2004-08-14
US	34271677	R1PC35VMYSV0HX	0300098618	468062314	The First Urban Christians: The Social World of the Apostle Paul	Books	5	57	57	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to New Testament Sociology	Biblical scholar Wayne Meeks wrote the first edition of THE FIRST URBAN CHRISTIANS in the mid 1980's. He collected not only scriptural information, but also historical and sociological information to reconstruct the world of the earliest Christians. At the time it was considered to be groundbreaking research. Today this work is considered by many to the standard bearer of sociological studies concerning first century Christians.<br />Meeks studies the earliest Christian communities established by St. Paul. Meeks acknowledges that in the minds of most people, the first Christians were poorer peasant and agrarian people, but the reality is probably different. While the gospel may have been first preached in such settings, the faith started in urban areas and spread first from one city to another, then to the countryside. While Meeks does mention many of the early Christian leaders in his work, his primary focus is on the writings of St. Paul and the day to day life behind these writings, since historically these writings are the earliest Christian sources.<br />Topics in the book include the urban environment of Pauline Christianity, social life of the early Christian community, the formations of churches, conflicts, rituals, and how belief shaped the lives of the early Christians. The book also has an index to help with information on specific subjects and a scriptural reference index for people who need to use the book for a quick reference for study or preparation of preaching.<br />Meeks has a scholar's attention to detail and provides a great deal of information in this work. He also has the reader in mind. Knowing that the work will be read both by scholars, students, and those interested in a deeper knowledge of scripture, the work is informative and readable.<br />While the information in the book is no longer new, it is still current. Students and those wishing further study will find Meeks' copious notes as well as his bibliography helpful for further study..	2004-07-17
US	34271677	R2BB4AVGYGYGGR	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Book Sure To Capture A Reader's Heart	THE CURIOUS INCIDENT OF THE DOG IN THE NIGHT-TIME is a book that is certainly capturing people's attention. In some ways the story of an autistic teenager trying to solve a mystery is not the most captivating of topics. The only way such a topic could come to life is through the skills of a gifted writer, which is the reason THE CURIOUS INCIDENT OF THE DOG IN THE NIGHT-TIME is a best seller and the book's main character Christopher Boone will always have a place in the hearts of those who have read this extraordinary work.<br />The greatest strength of the book is the main character and narrator, Christopher, who has Asperger's Syndrome. Haddon's use of the first person enables the reader to understand the world from Christopher's perspective. We learn about his extraordinary gift (his mathematical ability) as well as his personality quirks. We also hear from Christopher why he acts in certain ways which are disturbing to the people he encounters. While Christopher may be unable to interact with the world around him, he is a keen observer of everything that happens. We feel empathy for Christopher when we meet the people in his life and realize the tragedy that has been so much a part of his experience. We admire Christopher's pluck and reserve as he accomplishes things that are difficult for him. Because the reader loves Christopher, the book becomes mesmerizing and we follow his every move with attention.<br />There are a number of reasons why this book should be read. The first, and perhaps most impelling reason is that it is entertaining. The author's writing style is straightforward and Christopher is engaging. Even though most of us would believe we are different from Christopher, after reading the book any one of us could say that there is some Christopher in all of us.<br />Would be writers will find the book fascinating. Haddon's literary skills are remarkable. He also includes little pictures, puzzles, games, and the like which make the book highly original. In an interview I read, he stated that the impetus for the book was not Christopher himself, but the dead dog. He found the dead dog intriguing and decided to tell its story. Haddon believed the best way to do so was through the character of Christopher. He captures Christopher's voice and keeps it consistent throughout the book.ginal. In an interview I read, he stated that the impetus for the book was not Christopher himself, but the dead dog. He found the dead dog intriguing and decided to tell its story. Haddon believed the best way to do so was through the character of Christopher. He captures Christopher's voice and keeps it consistent throughout the book.	2004-07-17
US	34271677	RGUK47Y4CBJI0	0879077050	306111137	Spiritual Friendship (Cistercian Fathers 5)	Books	5	49	49	N	N	A Wonderful Little Gem	Modern readers are often amazed at the content of Aelred of Rievaulx's SPIRITUAL FRIENDSHIP. Immediately people may ask \\"What would a twelfth century Cistercian abbot have to say about friendship?\\" The answer turns out to be \\"Quiet a bit\\". St. Aelred takes Cicero's writings on friendship and gives them a Christian perspective. The writings are set up as dialogues in the style of Plato. For St. Aelred, friendship involves love and commitment and is part and parcel of the Christian life. He believes that friends should be carefully selected and once selected, deserve the best that one can offer. In these relationships one not only finds God, but one is able to do effective work on behalf of God's people. Many commentators believe that St. Aelred was writing about the secrets of his success in the spiritual life in this work. Prior to entering religious life, Aelred was in the court of the Scottish king and was known for his political savvy and ability to accomplish things through his relationships with others. He used these same gifts in the monastery and accomplished a great deal in his lifetime, both in his abbey and for the Church as a whole.<br />Since Aelred speaks about friendship in poetic terms, and often times writes about friendship the way one would write about marriage, it is not surprising that his writings did spark controversy and for many years after Aelred's death, the work was largely unknown. Commentators believe that this is due not just to the controversy of the writings, but also to a combination of changes in religious life to a more aesthetic form as well as a fear of \\"particular friendships\\" (a Catholic euphemism for unhealthy, usually illicit sexual encounters). Whatever the actual reason, the book is a treasure today. In a time when people are looking for true intimacy and lasting relationships, this work gives readers much to think about. It also has great advice about personal and professional relationships. The book also offers the readers insight into a relationship with Jesus Christ. While the idea of the book may have come from Cicero, it is clear that St. Aelred's basis for the book came from his relationship with God and Cicero's writings provided fodder and a framework.s insight into a relationship with Jesus Christ. While the idea of the book may have come from Cicero, it is clear that St. Aelred's basis for the book came from his relationship with God and Cicero's writings provided fodder and a framework.	2004-06-30
US	34271677	R1JIAJESUQTC88	0060012218	103393582	Geography Club	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Times are a Changing	A few years ago when I went to vote at my old high school, The GSA (Gay-Straight Alliance) was holding a bake sale outside the polling area. \\"Times have changed\\" was my immediate thought, knowing that when I attended school there, a GSA would never have even dared to exist. The fact that a book such as GEOGRAPHY CLUB could be published and not be all that controversial, at least in this neck of the woods, confirms that times have changed.<br />It is a first person narrative about a high school student named Kevin who knows he is gay. While he is not celebrating his sexual preference, he is not loathing it either. He discovers there are other gay students in his school and they devise a way to meet: by forming a club no one will want to join, a geography club (hence the title). There are many ups and downs for the people involved, and lessons to be learned, but sharing them would probably ruin the story.<br />Reviewers in print have both praised and panned the book, as have reviewers on Amazon.com. The book is an easy and enjoyable read though it will probably not stand the test of time as an all time classic for young people, but it does serve an important purpose. As I wondered what merits the book has, my first thought turned to gay readers. Will gay readers find characters they can identify with in this book? Perhaps. Since the characters are likeable but flawed, this is a possibility, but it could also be viewed as a bit superficial. Yet as I thought more about it, I realized that the book does make a significant contribution to adolescent literature. Readers are used to gay characters who are self depreciating outcasts who are the constant targets of bullies. None are members of the drama club either (though one does love Disney musicals). The gay characters in GEOGRAPHY CLUB are not stereotypes, they are typical high schools students who want the same thing that straight high school students want and if this book can help people see this wile providing an enjoyable read, it has more than accomplished something important as we strive toward understanding in today's world.yable read, it has more than accomplished something important as we strive toward understanding in today's world.	2004-06-30
US	34271677	RCZAK7O5UMXI1	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	4	6	14	N	N	Be Sure To Read The Entire Book!!!	FATHER JOE: THE MAN WHO SAVED MY SOUL is gaining quite a bit of attention. It is on many best seller lists, and the author, Tony Hendra is making the talk show/book signing circuit. The book has received excellent reviews from publications such as the NEW YORK TIMES BOOK REVIEW. This is no small accomplishment, yet as I read the book, I had to wonder if the book deserves the attention and praise it has been receiving. While reading much of the work, my answer would have been no, it is over-hyped. From all the wonderful words about the book, I expected a modern version of St. Augustine's CONFESSIONS or Thomas Merton's SEVEN STORY MOUNTAIN. As I continued to read the book, I found that it certainly did not even come close to these conversion stories. Quite frankly, I almost decided not to finish reading the book. Yet I give it four stars. Why?<br />FATHER JOE is a book that needs to be read from cover to cover, and then pondered. It tells the story of a confused young man (Tony Hendra) who meets a rather ordinary man named Fr. Joe. Fr. Joe is a Benedictine monk who is rather unassuming but still has tremendous impact on Hendra's life. The young man considers a vocation, then abandons his faith, has a crisis in life, and rediscovers his faith, albeit in a gradual way. Fr. Joe is a steady, non-judgmental presence in Hendra's life, whose undying faith is only matched by his goodness. Part of the problem I had with the book is that it contained so much about Hendra himself, and relatively little about Fr. Joe, who at least according to the title, should be the subject of the work. As the book progresses, the reader can wonder whether Hendra is some sort of egomaniac who is dying to tell his story and assumes it will sell by aiming at the nebulous spiritual book market. I now see this as a clever literary device used by Hendra to show Fr. Joe's effect on his life. As the book concludes, the reader gets another image of Hendra. We see he is a larger than life personality who is unfazed by world leaders, the rich and powerful, and the intellectual elite. While he may be a match for any person who fits in these groups, a humble Benedictine priest from an obscure abbey in England, baffles and challenges him and in this man not only meets his match, but more importantly meets his God. This is powerful to say the least.<br />Clergypersons, teachers, and social service workers will find a hero in Fr. Joe. How often do people in human service professions serve the needs of others and wonder if an impact is being made? Hendra lets us know that people like Fr. Joe do make a difference in lives and in the world. People searching for God may find some insights in this book and all readers will see the importance of making one's faith one's own. I will advise anyone who purchases the book to read it to the end. I know many people who have started the book but have found it is not whey they expected and put it down. As I said, I thought the same thing until I finished it, and upon finishing it realized that the work is a powerful testimony to a faith-filled man and faith itself from Hendra, a person who would probably consider himself someone who is still searching.o is unfazed by world leaders, the rich and powerful, and the intellectual elite. While he may be a match for any person who fits in these groups, a humble Benedictine priest from an obscure abbey in England, baffles and challenges him and in this man not only meets his match, but more importantly meets his God. This is powerful to say the least.<br />Clergypersons, teachers, and social service workers will find a hero in Fr. Joe. How often do people in human service professions serve the needs of others and wonder if an impact is being made? Hendra lets us know that people like Fr. Joe do make a difference in lives and in the world. People searching for God may find some insights in this book and all readers will see the importance of making one's faith one's own. I will advise anyone who purchases the book to read it to the end. I know many people who have started the book but have found it is not whey they expected and put it down. As I said, I thought the same thing until I finished it, and upon finishing it realized that the work is a powerful testimony to a faith-filled man and faith itself from Hendra, a person who would probably consider himself someone who is still searching.	2004-06-30
US	34271677	R30R1X9Z1AID5Z	0817433112	443890172	The Art of Nature Photography: Perfect Your Pictures In-Camera and In-Computer	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Inspiring and Informative Guide to Nature Photography	Niall Benvie's THE ART OF NATURE PHOTOGRAPHY is both informative and inspiring. Benvie believes that photography is an art, but nature photographers are artists in a different way because they are more preoccupied with capturing the subject at hand rather than expressing the self. The book includes excellent tips on preventing mistakes before the shutter is released-not an easy feat for a person involved in nurture photography. He offers basic advice about composition, lighting, flash, and the like as well as tips for active subjects (animals, weather, etc. have no respect for photographers as anyone who has attempted to photograph outdoors can attest to). While the book is a godsend for film photographers, he also includes detailed information for digital users which makes the book useful to photographers using both formats. Since people purchasing the book from Amazon will not have the opportunity to see all the sumptuous photographs in this book, believe me when I tell you that the photographs alone are awe inspiring and could lead a reader from the couch to the field in no time.<br />Perhaps what makes Benvie's book unique is his support for the amateur, which is most likely the customer who will purchase the book. While Benvie believes that professional photographers make significant contributions to nature photography, Benvie also believes that amateur contributions add a great deal as well since amateurs are less interesting in pleasing clients and more interested in presenting a vision of the natural world to others. Certainly Bevie's book will help amateur photographers who hope to do just that-present nature in all it's glory through photography.	2004-06-05
US	34271677	R2547XB4B5K81O	031242227X	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Powerful Yet Troubling Book	RUNNING WITH SCISSORS is a book that caught me off guard. In the book we meet the young Augusten Burroughs. We've probably all met a child like Burroughs, namely a child we ignore for one reason or another and in doing so, fail to meet a child who is endearing yet desperately needy. He is the product of what would have been termed at the time as a dysfunctional home that later became a broken home. Burroughs' father is distant and is not emotionally strong enough to handle his wife's serious psychological difficulties. He leaves the house but also leaves Augusten behind. The mother is being treated by a Psychiatrist named Dr. Finch. Finch was believed to be avant guard but later proved to be a fraud. Augusten goes to live with the Finch family where he is introduced to strange behavior, a sexual predator in his early thirties in the guise of an adopted sibling (probably not  legal adoption), a lack of rules and boundaries, and drugs. The power in the book is that Burroughs is able to recall what happens in detail, and writes from the point of view of a child who sees nothing wrong with the situation. Eventually Burroughs does realize that this life is harmful and is able to escape. Readers cannot help but have a great respect for Burroughs and his resiliency in situations that would have incapacitated most of us.<br />Burroughs has an irreverent sense of humor which gives the book some levity, but readers quickly see that what happened to Burroughs is not a comedy. Readers should also be aware that Burroughs' writing is rather detailed, including the actions of his abuser. Yet I would recommend this book to anyone who works with children. I say this because as I read the book, I could not help but wonder where were the adults how should have noticed what was happening? His sporadic attendance at school should have prompted visits by social services. There was a priest who was familiar with what was happening at the home. There were neighbors who clearly should have witnessed some of the bizarre behavior. Someone should have stepped in to do something. Yet the reason why no one did much of anything is probably because they did not believe what they saw, because no of us want to see what is tragic and ugly. If Burroughs makes us believe what we see, that alone will make his work a significant contribution.witnessed some of the bizarre behavior. Someone should have stepped in to do something. Yet the reason why no one did much of anything is probably because they did not believe what they saw, because no of us want to see what is tragic and ugly. If Burroughs makes us believe what we see, that alone will make his work a significant contribution.	2004-06-05
US	34271677	R13GISZC64IXFR	0809104911	343543632	Trappist: Living in the Land of Desire	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An Up-Close look at a Fascinating World	TRAPPIST: LIVING IN THE LAND OF DESIRE appears almost to be a coffee table book. It was written as a companion to a PBS special about the monks at Mepkin Abbey in South Carolina, but it is more like a spiritual guide to the Trappist way of life. The author, Michael Downey, gives excellent background information about the Trappist order as well as the history and life at Mepkin Abbey itself. We see what life is like at a typical day in the monastery. The day is rather routine (compared to most standards) and changes only on occasion, but it is in the routine that Trappists believe that God can be found. We also meet some of the personalities of Mepkin and we discover that monks are not people who flee from the world, but actually discover the world by setting themselves apart. Downey is able to capture the richness of monastic life in the book as well as how these adherents to the strict rule of St. Benedict as interpreted by the monks of New Citeaux in France and later reformulated at La Trappe also in France, live an ancient lifestyle that is somehow not outdated in today's world. The material in the book is both spiritually enriching and informative. The exquisite photographs also add the beauty of the book and make it a book that can cause a person to pause and think about God's presence in the world.	2004-06-05
US	34271677	R3R464PM9QZCRV	0060600373	482771309	HarperCollins Bible Dictionary	Books	5	32	35	N	N	One of the Best Tools For Bible Study Available	I have a number of reference books that I use rather frequently for scripture study. Without a doubt, the two volumes I refer to most are THE HARPER-COLLINS BIBLE DICTIONARY and HARPER BIBLE COMMENTARY. I find these two volumes to be the most helpful tools for Bible study and homily preparation. The dictionary is set up like any standard dictionary, but the entries are based on people, places, and books of the Bible. The entries give a detailed explanation of the person, place, event, or book of the Bible. Each entry is written by a biblical scholar and many of the names are among the best known names in Biblical studies. Many of the entries also have small bibliographies so that readers can get more detailed information if need be. The Harper-Collins Bible Dictionary is an indispensable tool for students of Biblical studies, people involved in preaching and teaching of scripture, and anyone interested in a more in depth look at the Bible.	2004-06-02
US	34271677	R7K8XZ2LE5JF0	0060655488	510366992	HarperCollins Bible Commentary - Revised Edition	Books	5	58	58	N	N	One of the Best Commentaries Available	I have a number of reference books that I use rather frequently for scripture study. Without a doubt, the two volumes I refer to most are THE HARPER-COLLINS BIBLE DICTIONARY and HARPER BIBLE COMMENTARY. I find these two volumes to be the most helpful tools for Bible study and homily preparation. The commentary is set up by biblical book and is divided into three sections: The Old Testament or Hebrew Scriptures, the New Testament, and the Apocrypha. Each book of the Bible has its own short commentary, based on chapter and verse of scripture. This volume also has short articles placed throughout the commentary on various subjects in the Bible. Each commentary and/or article is written by a biblical scholar and many of the authors are among the best known names in Biblical studies. Many of the entries also have small bibliographies so that readers can get more detailed information if need be. The Harper-Collins Bible Commentary is an indispensable tool for students of Biblical studies, people involved in preaching and teaching of scripture, and anyone interested in a more in depth look at the Bible.<br />Of all the commentaries available, the Harper -Collins is probably the most ecumenical. The scholars who contribute to the volume represent not only the best in Biblical scholarship, but a number of different faiths. The information is rather straightforward and does not represent any one faith tradition, but the information presented could easily be used in any denomination.	2004-06-02
US	34271677	R7BBB3GV9ULTY	1893732797	801388121	Journeys of Courage: Remarkable Stories of the Healing Power of Community	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Powerful Stories of Courage and Faith	Joy Carol's most recent book JOURNEYS OF COURAGE is a collection of stories told by people who have faced extraordinary challenges in a powerful and faith-filled manner. The stories are from three places that have known tragedy and pain: New York City in the aftermath of September 11, The Republic of Ireland, and Northern Ireland. Nearly half of the book tells stories form September 11, ranging from the firefighters who heroically tried to save lives while losing many in their company, pastoral care givers who tried to be God's presence where absence seemed to be more the reality, sanitation workers who had to remove the debris, knowing among the debris were human remains, and the teachers and school employees who tried to work with the children who may have lost a loved one or felt unsafe in a changing world. The remainder of the book contains stories of people living in Ireland who work for peace in the North, even after the peace accord and the official end of \\"the Troubles,\\" care givers for prisoners and addicted persons, and people dealing with the trauma and tragedy of physical and sexual abuse by religious and members of the clergy.<br />While the author prefaces the stories, she also weaves them together in a  way that the reader realizes that while a person's pain may be individual, healing comes when we all work together to reach out with God's love. The book is also a teaching tool. As we see the people in these stories come to grips with the challenges and hardships each faces, we too can learn from their struggles as we try to make sense of hardships and difficulties we face.<br />This book will certainly be appreciated by educators and people involved in preaching, though I am certain that anyone who admires people who can overcome adversity and be examples of faith will find this book a true gift.	2004-05-30
US	34271677	R2PL8UC0YD2HEO	0385337418	986337902	The Book of Joe	Books	5	21	23	N	N	What Happens When You Do Go Home Again?	A number of years ago, I was a teacher with student loans to pay, so I got a part time job at a deli. A former classmate, still wearing a jacket with his varsity basketball letter proudly showing for all to see, entered the store. The jacket no longer fit, his build had changed which age tends to do. I said hello and he gave me a look as if to say, \\"Why should I say hello to a pathetic loser like you?\\" He then made a comment about how little I accomplished since high school since I must only be slicing turkey breast and roast beef. I wanted to comment but wondered if it was worth it. Perhaps this is why I view Joe Goffman, the main character of THE BOOK OF JOE as almost heroic, as will anyone who felt excluded in high school.<br />In THE BOOK OF JOE, author Jonathan Tropper challenges the expression made famous by Thomas Wolfe's novel of the same name \\"You Can't Go Home Again.\\" There is no question that Tropper is indebted to Wolfe, retelling the story from a 2004 perspective, albeit with a more sensuous flair than Wolfe's novel. The novel's hero, or anti-hero, depending on the reader's perspective, is named Joe Goffman. Goffman is a successful novelist who wrote a book set in his hometown and based on events of his senior year in high school. The residents of the town look rather buffoonish, naturally take exception to the book and feel humiliated when the book is made into a film. Perhaps the fact that residents in the town know that the tragic events depicted in Goffman's novel are true, it makes matters worse. Eventually Joe has to return to his hometown when his father becomes ill and his reunion with the town's residents, particularly the venerated basketball coach and his players who regard the coach as a god, is at times comical and at other times tragic. Tropper could have succumbed to worn out clich&eacute;s in the work, but instead masterfully tells the story of a writer who was once an alienated youth who has achieved literary success yet still has to achieve personal satisfaction. Complicated broken family relationships and friendships are explored but never completely solved. People Goffman truly cared about and hurt, either intentionally or unintentionally, reenter his life and he likewise has to deal with the very real pain he has caused. Goffman likewise has struggles with the image he has of his father and finds an unlikely friend and ally in his nephew Jared, perhaps the novel's most endearing character.<br />Tropper deserves praise for the scope of what he has accomplished in this work. Many writers explores aspects of Tropper's book: returning home again, broken relationships, stigmas often attached to sexuality, complex family issues and the like, people constantly reliving the past, and do so well. Tropper is able to interweave all of these complicated issues into a novel that flows beautifully, captures a reader's attention, and holds it. He also describes the \\"writing life\\" rather well which I see as a plus.<br />According to the book's jacket, it may soon be released as a film. It will be interesting to see if Hollywood will do the book justice, so I would advise people to read the book quickly.personal satisfaction. Complicated broken family relationships and friendships are explored but never completely solved. People Goffman truly cared about and hurt, either intentionally or unintentionally, reenter his life and he likewise has to deal with the very real pain he has caused. Goffman likewise has struggles with the image he has of his father and finds an unlikely friend and ally in his nephew Jared, perhaps the novel's most endearing character.<br />Tropper deserves praise for the scope of what he has accomplished in this work. Many writers explores aspects of Tropper's book: returning home again, broken relationships, stigmas often attached to sexuality, complex family issues and the like, people constantly reliving the past, and do so well. Tropper is able to interweave all of these complicated issues into a novel that flows beautifully, captures a reader's attention, and holds it. He also describes the \\"writing life\\" rather well which I see as a plus.<br />According to the book's jacket, it may soon be released as a film. It will be interesting to see if Hollywood will do the book justice, so I would advise people to read the book quickly.	2004-05-15
US	34271677	RU0X790JTRCG1	1889833193	162743770	Journey Around Boston from A to Z (Journeys)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Take A Trip to Historic Boston	JOURNEY AROUND BOSTON is another title in the series created by author, artist and one time teacher Martha Zschock. Zschock was a third grade teacher at the time she wrote the book. As a teacher she has the respects both the natural curiosity and intelligence of children. A mallard, a duck often associated with the city thanks to Robert McCloskey's immortal MAKE WAY FOR DUCKLINGS, leads visitors on a tour of Boston and the vicinity. Her book includes the familiar tourist attractions as well as lesser known and perhaps even ignored places in Boston. It serves as a wonderful introduction to Boston and its illustrious history.<br />This book is a must for any family with young visitors coming to the city of Boston. It will also be of interest to the children of Boston who wish to learn a bit about the city and its history.	2004-05-10
US	34271677	R4TMI7348JYE6	0671537369	686701627	Children of the Troubles	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Moving Collection of Essays	Laragh Cullen is a young woman who grew up in Dungannon, County Tyrone, in Northern Ireland. She tried her hand at poetry when she was eleven years old and her words are among those included in the book CHILDREN OF THE TROUBLES. Laragh states:<br />  I'm tired of the sirens<br />  The town's like a cage<br />  I wish there was peace<br />  I'm eleven years of age.<br />Her words describe the many challenges faced by the children who grew up in war torn Ireland, yet the hope for peace is also evident in many of these same young voices. This is the subject of the book CHILDREN OF THE TROUBLES.<br />CHILDREN OF THE TROUBLES is a collection of stories by people living in Northern Ireland during what has is referred to as \\"the troubles.\\" Most of the pieces included in the collection are written by adults who grew up in the midst of the strife between Catholics and Protestants in this divided section of the world. While the entries were written by adults, the experiences mentioned in the book took place when the writers were young.<br />The book is divided into three sections, the first dealing with situations which take place in Belfast, the area that was most affected by the strife. The second section deals with how the strife affected other counties of Northern Ireland. The third section deals with those who tried to remain neutral.<br />The editor, Laurel Holliday, has edited similar works involving children in Israel and Palestine, African Americans in American inner-city environments, and diaries of children of the Holocaust. The selections in this volume were written by a variety of people both Catholic and Protestant, of all educational levels, some victims, and some who were in the midst of the violence. Each of the voices in this work shows us what we probably already know, or should know, but never seem to learn, namely that we are all more similar than we realize. We also get a clear sense that while it may be religion that divides many of the people of Northern Ireland, theology, spirituality or God rarely enter into the debate.<br />The strength of this volume would be the stories themselves. Most of them are accompanied by a photograph of the person telling the story which makes the reader see that the accounts involve actual people who lived through these horrendous years, and many are thought provoking. People reading the book will not find it a depressing work. Many of the entries are hope-filled and also show that even though there was strife and violence in their homeland, many of the young people did experience the normal joys and adventures of childhood.and, theology, spirituality or God rarely enter into the debate.<br />The strength of this volume would be the stories themselves. Most of them are accompanied by a photograph of the person telling the story which makes the reader see that the accounts involve actual people who lived through these horrendous years, and many are thought provoking. People reading the book will not find it a depressing work. Many of the entries are hope-filled and also show that even though there was strife and violence in their homeland, many of the young people did experience the normal joys and adventures of childhood.	2004-05-10
US	34271677	R3OYN02VTJIRUL	0802812163	323314988	Scarred by Struggle, Transformed by Hope	Books	4	59	66	N	N	A Gifted Writer Offers Hope	For a while, the book SCARRED BY STRUGGLE, TRANSFORMED BY HOPE appeared as a recommended book by Amazon.com. I am not certain as to whether it was recommended to me because of my interest in spirituality or because of my interest in writing. Whatever the reason, I am happy this book was recommended.<br />Sr. Joan Chittister is a Catholic nun and a member the Benedictine community. As a young religious, she had the desire to be a fiction writer. This would have been during the years after Vatican II and the reforms of religious life, so this venture was within the realm of possibility for the young nun. For a reason she still does not know, her order decided that it would be best if she did not enter a creative writing program. While she continued as a religious, and more than likely did some very effective ministerial work, her heart was not in her activities and she had to deal with this very real disappointment. She had to face her own vulnerability and make rather difficult decisions. A biblical image that aided her in understanding is the Genesis story of Jacob wrestling with an angel. This rather curious story helped her understand the struggle she faced. This work is the fruit of her insight and lessons learned from the experience.<br />Sr. Joan sees struggle as involving eight characteristics: change, isolation, darkness, fear, powerlessness, vulnerability, exhaustion, and scarring. Each of the characteristics has a gift that can be gained: conversion, independence, faith, courage, surrender, limitations, endurance, and transformation. In each section she either uses her own experience of an experience involving someone she knows. She touches on personal experiences we all face and collective experiences such as the aftermath of September 11.<br />While Sr. Joan's faith is evident throughout the book, this is not a syrupy religious tract or a \\"God writes straight with crooked lines\\" type of book. It deals with struggle as it is, often difficult and ugly, and looks at it from a realistic point of view. While it may have value to readers who are facing struggles at this time (who isn't?), it will probably be most helpful to people who have faced difficulties and are still trying to find God in the midst of it all.<br />While I believe that what motivated me most to purchase this book may have been Sr. Joan's dashed hopes of writing the great American novel, this book has done very little to cure my sometimes incurable case of writer's block. This is neither a disappointment or criticism because it has helped me with spiritual block. Writers who have suggestions for ending writer's block are a dime a dozen. Writers who can help remove spiritual bocks are rarer and are always gifts from God.looks at it from a realistic point of view. While it may have value to readers who are facing struggles at this time (who isn't?), it will probably be most helpful to people who have faced difficulties and are still trying to find God in the midst of it all.<br />While I believe that what motivated me most to purchase this book may have been Sr. Joan's dashed hopes of writing the great American novel, this book has done very little to cure my sometimes incurable case of writer's block. This is neither a disappointment or criticism because it has helped me with spiritual block. Writers who have suggestions for ending writer's block are a dime a dozen. Writers who can help remove spiritual bocks are rarer and are always gifts from God.	2004-05-07
US	34271677	R12GZ5XF84152S	0394710487	377678395	Collected Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Great Collection of Short Stories	In an interview published in THE PARIS REVIEW, Frank O?Connor stated that he wanted to be either an artist or a writer and chose writing because a pad of paper and pencils were less expensive than art supplies. O?Connor has an artist?s touch when he writes and this is evidenced in his many short stories, many of which can be found in this volume.<br />Most of the stories in this collection take place in Ireland in the years after the Southern Republic of Ireland became an independent nation. Some of the stories such as ?Guests of the Nation? which may be O?Connor?s best known story and ?The Martyr? have this struggle as a backdrop. Most of the stories are about ordinary people facing ordinary situations. The stories tell of people young and old, rich and poor, in a variety of situations, some enviable, others not. We find priests, some holy, others not, but all human. Parents and children face daily life. Some of the stories have tongue in cheek humor (?My Oedipus Complex?) whereas others such as ?An Act of Charity? deal with tragedy. In each of the stories, there is a dignity to the characters. The characters can be familiar, but are never clich?. While I admit to being biased in my praise of O?Connor?s works, since I love my Irish heritage, especially the great Irish writers, I believe that while O?Connor?s writing and characters are distinctly Irish, the emotions and struggles O?Connor writes of are universal and can find a spot in the heart of anyone who loves great writing.	2004-05-07
US	34271677	RJZD6RG9XMSIZ	0763607304	922822648	Zachary's Ball (Tavares baseball books)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	For Red Sox Fans Young And Old	The plot of ZACHARY'S BALL is basic enough: it tells the story of Zachary and his father attending a baseball game, Zachary's father catching a ball, and the dream that the young man has when he falls asleep. Tavaraes accomplishes three things in this book. First, he beautifully tells the story of a touching father/son memory. He also writes about his love of baseball. Perhaps the book's greatest accomplishment is the way in which he brings Fenway Park and the Red Sox to life. The Red Sox are one of the more magical and mythical teams in baseball and fit well into Tavares' tale.<br />Young readers will love the book, but it will definitely touch a chord with Red Sox fans young and old.	2004-05-01
US	34271677	R2HGGRJGCSAO0Z	1585362190	645273933	H is for Home Run: A Baseball Alphabet (Sports Alphabet)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A "Hit" For Young Baseball Fans	When I was recently looking for a book for a very young baseball hopeful, I came across H IS FOR HOME RUN. The book is more than an \\"alphabet book.\\" It not only has an appropriate baseball term or tidbit of baseball for each letter, it also has an informative bit of baseball information. The text is well written and the illustrations are marvelous. It is the perfect book for any young slugger, but I can also see it being helpful for baseball illiterates like me-people who pretends to know something about the sport but are to embarrassed to ask.	2004-05-01
US	34271677	RWQW4G3FEW9ZJ	1889833282	459682591	Journey Around Cape Cod from A to Z (Journeys)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Must For All Young Cape Codders	When I was growing up, our family always vacationed at Cape Cod. We are now fourth generation Cape Cod vacationers, and quite frankly, I thought we knew all there was to know about Cape Cod until I got a guided tour from a seagull in Martha Zscock's JOURNEY AROUND CAPE COD AND THE ISLANDS. Zschock was a third grade teacher at the time she wrote the book. As a teacher she has the respects the natural curiosity and intelligence of children. Her book includes the familiar tourist attractions as well as lesser known and perhaps even ignored places on Cape Cod.<br />I purchased the book for my young niece to help her learn about the alphabet, knowing that her mother, who would be reading the book to her, would love the Cape Cod images. Now the book accompanies my niece to the Cape each year and serves almost as a check list of must see places and landmarks on the Cape.	2004-05-01
US	34271677	R20AKUAXFCUE1R	0786809728	677826039	While You Are Away	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Touching and Timely Book	Our world is facing uncertain times to say the least. In many cases, those who are paying a great price during these times are the young children of the soldiers stationed overseas. Eileen Spinelli, wife of author Jerry Spinelli addresses these young people and the issues they face in her book WHILE YOU ARE AWAY. The book tells of a variety of young children who will do various things to remember their parents serving in the military until Mom or Dad returns home again. The soldiers are both fathers and mothers and the children are various races and nationalities which gives the book a broad appeal. Renee Graef's beautiful illustrations add to the charm of this timely book.<br />This book is a must for the children of our service men and women as they cope with an overwhelming situation in their young lives, but will also help other young people understand the challenges facing many of their neighbors, classmates, and friends. We should be thankful such a book has been written, but let us also hope that the situation our world finds itself in may be resolved quickly so that this book can be outdated very soon.	2004-05-01
US	34271677	R2W0766FIT9C5R	1400052157	313066518	Idyll Banter: Weekly Excursions to a Very Small Town	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Book About A Small Town and Life in General	For most people, Chris Bohjalian is best known as a novelist with books such as THE BUFFALO SLODIER and MIDVIVES to his credit. The people of Lincoln, Vermont and the vicinity probably best know Bohjalian as a columnist for THE BURLINGTON FREE PRESS. Now readers outside of Vermont can read and appreciate his reflections in small town life in IDYLL BANTER, a collection of these columns.<br />Bohjalian is hardly the first person to leave a major city and find a different pace to life in a small town. He is also not the first writer to explore life in a small town. The essays do not include tried and true clich&eacute;s but rather give an honest and refreshing look at life in general. Most of the essays are upbeat and thought provoking. Bohjalian is involved in each of them, yet the book is not about the author and his family. Rather the author and his family give perspective to Bohjalian's observations. Perhaps the most moving passages in the book can be found when he talks about the Church where he worships and the his reflections on the town cemetery<br />The book will appeal to a wide variety of readers, but it is my guess that people involved in teaching and public speaking will probably find the book useful. People involved in preaching and ministry will also find in the book excellent sermon and homily starters.	2004-04-19
US	34271677	R31W14BB0DAB9A	0312312334	80150303	Tales from the Times: Real-Life Stories to Make You Think, Wonder, and Smile, from the Pages of The New York Times	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a Sophisticated Version of Chicken Soup for the Soul	In many ways THE NEW YORK TIMES is America's newspaper, and overall its reporting is among the best in the country (its recent case of plagiarism not withstanding). For those who do not get the opportunity to read the TIMES all that often, TALES FROM THE TIMES may be the next best thing. In many ways the work is a sophisticated version of THE CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE SOUL, and like the works in the CHICKEN SOUP series, the book captures a reader's heart and gives a reader stories to contemplate and remember. This is a compilation of human interest articles originally published in the paper. The articles are divided into various topics. While some of the articles are based on somewhat well known news stories, such as the young man who played in the Little League World Series but did not know his actual birth date, most are ordinary stories that come to life from the pens of the TIMES gifted writers. There is a variety to the stories and cover a range of human situations.<br />This work would be an excellent resource for teachers as well as those interested in journalism.	2004-04-19
US	34271677	R20S6T4M46HS64	0142004006	62163596	The Practical Writer: From Inspiration to Publication	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Great Information By People Who Know Witing	I recently took a writing workshop and the instructor told us that if we are not yet reading POET AND WRITERS magazine, we should be. He found the magazine articles helpful when he first started writing because the articles in the magazine are written by both established and emerging writers as well as by professionals in the publishing field. He still reads the magazine and finds as a published writer, the articles are accurate about the writing life. Since he is already a published author, I believed his advice to be reliable. As a result of this workshop, I also met other writers who have been published in this magazine and make the same claim. When I saw the book THE PRACTICAL WRITER advertised in the magazine and realized it was a \\"best of\\" collection from the magazine, I thought that the book could be rather helpful.<br />Practical is the key word in the title. While the book does have some content about writing theory, most of the book deals with publishers and the writing world. Since I have yet to have anything published, I may not be qualified to say how helpful the articles in the book actually are, but it does give an aspiring writer a good introduction of all that is involved from beginning a manuscript to its completion. The book helps a person interesting in writing look at the possibility realistically. Each of the articles in the book was originally featured in POETS AND WRITERS magazine by contributors who have a working knowledge of writing and publishing.<br />The book is divided into five sections: Conceptions of craft, Initial contract with a publisher, working with professional in the field, selling a book, and jobs in writing. An article on writing by Robert Philips completes the book. The book also contains helpful information about grants and awards, writing conferences and residences and resources for writers.<br />For me, collections such as THE PRACTICAL WRITER help me set goals as far as writing is concerned. Fantasizing about writing is something many people do, and writing can be a cathartic experience, at least for me. Getting something to work on paper is a far different matter, and collections such as this work do help me to focus and try to produce something that is of quality and is also true to me. Hopefully it will help other aspiring writers too!s something many people do, and writing can be a cathartic experience, at least for me. Getting something to work on paper is a far different matter, and collections such as this work do help me to focus and try to produce something that is of quality and is also true to me. Hopefully it will help other aspiring writers too!	2004-04-19
US	34271677	ROLXS2SMEFFZS	0380977761	418035057	Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Feiler Again Gives Readers Much Food for Thought	In late 2002, The Miami Book Fair was broadcast on C-Span. One segment had a panel which included Bruce Feiler. When I heard some of the titles of the books Feiler has written, particularly his book on the circus, I found him rather interesting, but wondered what he would have to say about his scriptural subjects. Well, all a person has to do is read his either WALKING THE BIBLE or ABRAHAM and one will quickly realize that Feiler gives the reader ample ways to look at faith and scripture.<br />In ABRAHAM, Feiler looks at the \\"father in faith\\" of three major religions: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, and explores the ways each of the three faiths uses the story of Abraham. Feiler shows how each faith tradition uses the same basic story but interprets it in different ways. Feiler not only shows the different ways in which the Abraham story is interpreted, but also how these interpretations have often led to divisions as well. In light of the present world situation, Feiler's observations could be prophetic and could lead to a better understanding of that which decides so many.<br />The book is written from a perspective of faith, which is probably its greatest strength. Feiler has a great appreciation of scripture and seems to make a great effort at finding authorities on Abraham that are both experts and people of faith. For this reason, the book gives the reader a great deal to ponder. Readers also see that Feiler himself is journeying in his faith: he is both rediscovering the faith of his childhood and discovering a more vibrant mature faith. His ability to bring in his own experiences while not making the book about himself is admirable and allows the reader to become engaged in the book and perhaps see their own spiritual journey.<br />Readers should note that while this book is carefully researched, it is not a scholarly work and there are a few small errors in the book, but the errors are small and do not detract from the overall message of the book.	2004-04-08
US	34271677	R1LRJSXJ079DK3	0684869136	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	4	40	49	N	N	Interesting Thoeries on Biblical Archaeology	Dealing with the Sacred Scriptures from a historical point of view is a daunting task, and only those with strong hearts should ever undertake such an endeavor. People generally have opinions before a book is even read, and more often than not read the book either to support or refute a claim. Authors need to be thick skinned to say the least.<br />My hunch is that Neil Asher Silberman and Israel Finkelstein will need thick skins. The two extensively research current biblical archeology in regard to ancient Israel and Judah and look at the scripture in light of these claims. The two challenge a popular and prevalent hypothesis that even though specific historical details may be incorrect, the Bible is basically a sound historical document. Looking not only at the history of ancient Israel and Judah, but also other ancient civilizations, the two challenge much of the historical data in the texts. They also look at small details in stories such as Abraham, Joseph, Moses, David, ET. Al.  to back up their theories. Some of their claims are that there was no large migration of people which would have made the Exodus improbable, details of nomadic times do not match the stories of the Patriarchs, and the dates of David's reign do not square with a strong and powerful Israel. While the two do not question the religious significance of the great figures of the Hebrew Bible, they do question their historical identities which puts these figures on a mythic scale, not only as larger than life figures who teach us lessons about life, but also in terms of believability. I suppose this could be troubling for some readers, but at this point in time, so many theories about scripture come and go when new finds and discoveries are made, most readers are probbaly used to new ideas that startle and challenge readers. New dicoveries and books really do not shake a person's faith.<br />As a Christian reader, I am somewhat used to biblical scholars who question the historical accuracy of certain texts. My faith is strong enough that claims such as those in this book will not change my point of view. I will use what is helpful as I do with so many books I read. As I read the work I could not help but wonder if the authors do for the Hebrew Scriptures what authors such as Marcus Borg and John Dominic Crossan do for the Gospels. The book is almost guaranteed to cause controversy. Personally their findings are interesting, and deserve to be taken seriously, especially since the book is well written by two scholars who know their subject and have done ample research. Their research also helps people in exegetical work as far as dating texts would be concerned. Their work also stirs debate which means that the texts have to be examined and interpreted in order to be relevant today. This is not a bad challenge for ancient texts, especially texts that are ancient yet still are living.<br />Now, as a person who uses scripture both personally and professionally on a daily basis, I would urge some caution when reading this book. Often when a book such as this is written, especially a book that is researched as much as this one is, it often becomes the \\"final word\\", and please pardon the pun, \\"biblical truth.\\"  This remains the case until the next book is published, containing all the available research that is current at the time, and often has very different conclusions. In the future another book may be published that will refute the claims of this book. Since new theories and discoveries frequently arise, these findings may not be the final word. The book is worth buying and definitely worth reading, even if you do not agree with all of its conclusions, and should provide much information that can be helpful in preaching, teaching, Bible study, and other forms of ministry.certain texts. My faith is strong enough that claims such as those in this book will not change my point of view. I will use what is helpful as I do with so many books I read. As I read the work I could not help but wonder if the authors do for the Hebrew Scriptures what authors such as Marcus Borg and John Dominic Crossan do for the Gospels. The book is almost guaranteed to cause controversy. Personally their findings are interesting, and deserve to be taken seriously, especially since the book is well written by two scholars who know their subject and have done ample research. Their research also helps people in exegetical work as far as dating texts would be concerned. Their work also stirs debate which means that the texts have to be examined and interpreted in order to be relevant today. This is not a bad challenge for ancient texts, especially texts that are ancient yet still are living. <br />Now, as a person who uses scripture both personally and professionally on a daily basis, I would urge some caution when reading this book. Often when a book such as this is written, especially a book that is researched as much as this one is, it often becomes the \\"final word\\", and please pardon the pun, \\"biblical truth.\\"  This remains the case until the next book is published, containing all the available research that is current at the time, and often has very different conclusions. In the future another book may be published that will refute the claims of this book. Since new theories and discoveries frequently arise, these findings may not be the final word. The book is worth buying and definitely worth reading, even if you do not agree with all of its conclusions, and should provide much information that can be helpful in preaching, teaching, Bible study, and other forms of ministry.	2004-04-01
US	34271677	R1ZP70LX5BK880	1568540221	824000822	Dining in the Kingdom of God: The Origins of Eucharist according to Luke	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Great Book by a Practical and Readable Scholar	Eugene Le Verdiere is a biblical scholar and popular speaker who respects the intelligence of his readers and audience and gives them a great material that is both sustentative and practical. I base this not only on his writings, but also from workshops he has given to religious educators. His book DINING IN THE KINGDOM OF GOD combines scholarly research but presents it in a way that is non-threatening. He assumes the reader has more than a passing knowledge of scripture and is looking for a practical way to understand the Eucharist in Luke's Gospel. La Verdiere divides the book into four major sections: Jesus' early ministry, his journey to Jerusalem, the Last Supper, and his resurrection appearances. La Verdiere sees the origins of the Eucharist in Luke's Gospel not only in overtly Eucharistic texts such as the multiplication of the loaves, the Last Supper, and Emmaus, but also at smaller meals such as his meal with Levi, his encounter with Zaccheus, Martha and Mary, and his famous (or infamous if you are the host) dinners with Pharisees. La Verdiere's treatment of these events shows that Luke's Gospel is truly the Eucharistic Gospel and challenges the way that readers approach the Eucharist and live as Eucharistic people. The book will more than likely appeal to Catholic audiences, but is biblical in nature as opposed to sacramental. The book is written in an easy to read style. It also contains maps to help give the reader as sense of place and tables that summarize information. While the book does not have a scripture index, there are ample footnotes that can help a reader do further research.	2004-04-01
US	34271677	R1RF79HHN2XY5H	0811840557	264434325	Funny Bunnies	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Great Shots of these Loveable Animals	For people who love rabbits, FUNNY BUNNIES is the perfect gift. Photographer Laurie Frankel seems to have the ability to capture the amusing and loveable characteristics of rabbits. A wide variety of rabbits are included in the book. There are dwarf rabbits, lop eared rabbits, spotted rabbits, and even one that resembles a French poodle. As a rabbit owner and lover, as well as an amateur photographer, I envy Frankel's ability to get these shots. She must have been following the rabbits with her camera for hours. Rabbits move fast and a photographer always has to be ready.<br />Please note that this book is not a \\"how to\\" book on rabbit care, it's just a book that captures amusing shots of these adorable animals, and for rabbit fans, that will do just fine.	2004-03-18
US	34271677	R2JTWJ1HADC6FA	0425172945	102470712	For the Love of Books: 115 Celebrated Writers on the Books They Love Most	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Read The Books That Inspired Your Favorite Writers	Anyone who has ever wanted to be a writer will hear from writing instructors all about the importance of constantly reading. Books on writing theory state the same thing as do works about writing by published authors. The importance of reading cannot be disputed, but many writers may wonder what would be appropriate to read. Fans of great writers may also wonder what would be a great next read. Ronald Shwartz has edited a book that answers these questions for all who wonder, what do great writers read and what books have inspired these writers to write?<br />The book includes many well known authors of both fiction and nonfiction, including notables such as Anne Bernays and husband Justin Kaplan, Robert Coles, Joyce Carol Oates, Penelope Fitzgerald, John Irving, Norman Mailer, and Anna Quindlen just to name a few. Some of the writers simply list the books, others explain why they include the books. Most of the entries are short and to the point, and all the entries are insightful. I only wish Norman Mailer had a bit more to say, but since he just published a book on writing, any questions I may have will probably be answered in that book.	2004-03-18
US	34271677	RA1MW1R8TXV4C	1557252785	809302262	Sacred Spaces: Stations on a Celtic Way	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Take a Vicarious Spiritual Journey to Ireland	Noted spiritual writer Margaret Silf takes her readers on a Celtic journey in her book SACRED SPACES. Combining Ignatian spirituality with traditional Celtic spirituality and the beauty that is Ireland and Scotland, Silf looks at the natural beauty and some ancient human made artifacts to help readers take a good look at their own lives. Silf looks at moments in our own lives: times we may be facing challenges, times we need to grow, and times we need to simply appreciate God's creation, and the like, and pairs them with ancient landmarks and the natural beauty of Celtic places. She does this to enable the reader to see how these places revealed God's role in human life to the Celts and can do the same for us today.<br />The different artifacts and natural places focus on one area of a person's life and a chapter is devoted to the individual places or things. The chapters include:<br />The Infinite Knot which Silf sees as God's weaving in our lives.<br />The High Cross which were used to mark Churches and libraries can be seen as signs that point toward eternity<br />Hilltops which help us see the whole picture<br />Wells which challenge us to live our possibilities<br />Groves and springs which are signs of hospitality and generosity<br />Crossing places which challenge us to grow<br />Boundaries<br />One chapter flows into the other and the book can almost be used as a mini retreat, but more than likely readers will find themselves returning to this book to reread Silf's insighst as we face the different situations talked about in the book in our own lives. The book also contains lush photographs which will delight people who have visited either Scotland or Ireland and entice others to make a trip to either of these beautiful places.<br />.	2004-03-07
US	34271677	R1PJNDWSDDM2Q0	0809136104	482905	The Jews in the Time of Jesus: An Introduction	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A Helpful Guide to Undestanding Judaism in Jesus' day	Knowledge of the Jewish faith is essential to any serious study of the Christian scriptures. Stephen Wylen's THE JEWS IN THE TIME OF JESUS is an essential tool in understanding the Judaism of the days of Jesus Christ. The book is written in a manner that is both academic and personal. The author is a rabbi by profession but also has a keen understanding of Christianity. His writings are meant to educate Christian readers about Judaism but at time it also confronts misconceptions about Judaism.<br />The topics in the book include historical details regarding the Greeks, Romans, the Maccabees, etc. While this information is informative, it is not the book's greatest strength which can be found in the way the author paints a picture of Jewish life at the time of Jesus. Rabbi Wylen pays close attention to the various groups within Judaism: The Sadducees, Pharisees, Essenes, as well as the other figures we find in the gospel. The book helps the reader get a sense of the world of Jesus' day and the audience to whom Jesus spoke. The information about Jewish rituals and festivals is also helpful. The book also contains a great deal of information about the Temple and its history, including the revolts which led to the break between Christianity and Judaism. This information is critical in understanding the differences between the two great faiths. We also get some wonderful information about the great rabbis of Jesus' day and in the years of early Christianity.<br />The book is easy to read and can be used as a quick reference for people involved in preaching, Bible study, or religious education. The book has an informative bibliography which includes editorial comments by the author. While some readers may disagree with some of his opinions, they are still helpful as Christians and Jewish people try and come to an understanding of each other.	2004-03-06
US	34271677	RESVWASOPV48W	1550050745	722403365	Click!	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Story of a Young Shutterbug	CLICK is a clever story with beautiful illustrations. It tells the story of a boy and his mother and a baby polar bear and its mother. The mother and son go out \\"hunting\\" with cameras. The mother is a professional photographer and she seems to be passing her talents to her son. The baby polar bear wanders away from its mother and the little boy also wanders, but before returning to his mother, he is able to get a shot of the baby bear, hence the title CLICK. The author shows the love between the mother and her child and the parallel love between mother polar bear and the cub.<br />I am probably a bit biased about this book. I am an amateur photographer and love top take pictures of my niece, who is about the same age as the little boy. I know she is going to love it as I'm sure any child will.	2004-02-05
US	34271677	R1VHGMMDCOFJ5G	1889833428	611901963	Lighthouses of New England (Snow Centennial Editions)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	No One Knows New England Folklore Like Snow	When I was between fifth and sixth grades, I first became introduced to the writings of Edward Rowe Snow after reading a book I believe was titled TRUE TALES AND MYSTERIOUS LEGENDS. I read other books as well and quickly learned that if anyone knows New England, it is Edward Rowe Stowe. Stowe was an expert on everything New England, especially its legends. Stowe also loved lighthouses, both the structures and the people who staffed them. His book THE LIGHTHOUSES OF NEW ENGLAND has the history of New England's lighthouses which played an essential role in the maritime history of the United States as well as the legends associated with them. For some, using the title New England may be a misnomer since the majority of the book deals with the lights in Massachusetts and Maine, with some information about Rhode Island lights, particularly then story of Ida Lewis, but the lights of Connecticut are not included, but even without this information, the book is still a great treasure.<br />This edition of the book was published in honor of the centenary of Snow's  birth, due largely to the efforts of Jeremy D'Entremont, a contemporary lighthouse historian who shares Snow's love for the lighthouses of New England.	2004-02-02
US	34271677	R3NMCMX8S1Y2SA	0684843110	918846372	Pilgrim Souls: A Collection of Spiritual Autobiography	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Wonderful Collection of Spiritual Writings	Any book that is a collection is only as good as the people represented in the book. If your book is about spirituality and contains writings by St. Augustine, Thomas Merton, Julian of Norwich, and Simone Weill, to name a few, your probably on excellent ground, and PILGRIM SOULS is certainly a volume filled with great spiritual insight. Most of the people included in the book are from the Christian tradition, but not all are \\"spiritual giants\\" or even religious so to speak. Yet each can help a person in his/her quest for God. PILGRIM SOULS is an excellent resource for those who are interested in great spiritual thinkers but may not have time to read all the longer works. It is also a great resource for those who would like an introduction to the wide variety of classic spiritual writing available.	2004-02-02
US	34271677	RO4AXNDI9TT3R	079225676X	330614385	National Geographic Photography Field Guide: Secrets to Making Great Pictures, Second Edition	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Handy Guide for Quick Reference	Probably every photographer, whether amateur or professional, has dreamed of being a photographer for NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC. Robert Caputo, a photographer who has had work published in the magazine, and Peter Burian offer suggestions for taking photographs like those found in the magazine in their book THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC PHOTOGRAPHY FIELD GUIDE. Though the book has some information on digital photography, it is intended primarily for film users. It has some basic information about photography basics: camera, film, lenses, composition, film, exposure, flash, etc. The information presented in this section is probably better for review for photographers who know the basics rather than those who are new to using the camera. Perhaps the book's greatest strength would be the suggestions for taking action shots, nature shots, and people shots. Examples of work from highly regarded photographers are used to demonstrate the suggestions offered. The book may not be as complete as other books on the subject, bit its compact size and excellent organization makes it a perfect guide to use in the field when a quick question arises.	2004-02-02
US	34271677	RX6HQSTSSCFUO	1853903027	648783212	Spiritual Journeys: An Anthology of Writings by People Living and Working With Those on the Margins	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mostly Unlnown People But Excellent Spiritual Role Models	SPIRITUAL JOURNEYS is a gem of a book. It contains a number of essays, written by people active in ministry, and describes their relationships with God. The greatest value of the book is that its practicality. There are lay men and women, as well as priests and vowed religious represented in the book, all in active rather than contemplative ministry. Most of the writings are by Catholics, and most are in ministry in either Ireland and the United States. All are involved in challenging work, most often with the poor and downtrodden. Each has contributed a great deal to making the world better, and their good work is a result of their relationship with God. It can be a great help and inspiration for people who are trying to find God in their day to day lives. These writings show that God is found in the day to day, and often in places where finding God would be thought impossible.<br />This book is not the easiest to find, but it is truly \\"a pearl of great price\\" in the biblical sense and  can be a treasure for anyone who finds this book.<br />Just in case you are interested, there is an essay by a Tim Kearney in this book, but this is just a coincidence, although since it is good, maybe I should take credit for it!	2004-02-02
US	34271677	R1UITU2ATRDW8	0877934924	713825400	Wisdom of the Celtic Saints	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Celtic Saints Made Easy	Edward Sellner attributes his interest in Celtic spirituality to his Irish ancestry and delved into the topic while in graduate school. Since that time he has contributed a great deal to this area of spirituality, particularly the notion of companions on the spiritual journey known as soul friends. His book THE WISDOM OF THE CELTIC SAINTS is one of his contributions in this area.<br />The book contains some factual information about Celtic Christianity which serves as an introduction to the writings of the saints themselves. Sellner includes excerpts from the writings of the better known Celtic saints such as Patrick, Brendan, Bridget, Columcille, and David of Wales, as well as some lesser known saints. It is set up like the collections of the desert fathers and mothers, and can be used for spiritual reading in a similar manner.<br />Readers of this book will find the writings spiritually enriching, imaginative, and rather practical. It will also help readers see that this ancient form of Christian spirituality has a great deal to say to us today.	2004-02-02
US	34271677	R3FXYNZGNBNWBI	0395966094	145315134	The New England Wild Flower Society Guide to Growing and Propagating Wildflowers of the United States and Canada	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Guide To Wildflowers By A True Expert	If you happen to be visiting The Garden in the Woods in Framingham, MA, you will probably notice a man puttering in the gardens or working in the nursery. More than likely he will instinctively know that you have a question about the wildflowers you are examining and he will be more than happy to share his knowledge. This amiable person is William Cullina of the New England Wildflower Society. For those who are unable to visit the garden, or have a question about wildflowers, Cullina's book GROWING AND PROPAGATING WILDFLOWERS is the next best thing. This coffee table style book is filled with lavish photographs and wonderful commentary about many wildflowers found in North America. The book not only assists the reader in identifying various wildflowers, but helps the reader who wishes to incorporate wildflowers in a home garden. Cullina mentions in the introduction that horticulture has been a life long passion. This is evident in his writing style. The information in the book is informative and while it is presented in a formal manner, it is non-threatening for the novice gardener. This work is not helpful just for gardeners. Photographers will appreciate the wonderful shots of the flowers, many of which were photographed by Cullina himself.	2004-02-02
US	34271677	RTE3UBYL8NVZ9	0316373141	302199144	Black and White Photography: A Basic Manual	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to Black and White Techniques	Even though the photography world seems to be going completely digital, film will probably not die out any time too soon, and the last to die will more than likely be black and white film. There will still be hard core enthusiasts who will enjoy the medium of black and white film and know that nothing compares with the excitement of developing one's own photographs. For those who wish to learn this art form, Henry Horenstein's BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPHY; A BASIC MANUAL is an excellent resource. This book is sued by many instructors as a textbook. It contains excellent information about the basics of photography including camera, lens, shutter and exposure and the developing process. Throughout the book there are many compositional techniques as well as the use of filters to enhance photographs. Though this is a manual for black and white photographers, those interested in color photography will find the boo helpful since understanding eth techniques involved in black and white photography help detect important nuances in color photography that can truly enhance a photograph.	2004-02-02
US	34271677	R3DQOAMDMLPZDZ	0316373168	450671458	Color Photography: A Working Manual	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Guide For Color Photographers	Henry Horenstein, author of BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPHY: A BASIC MANUAL, a book often used as a photography text book, has a similar book on color photography. COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY: A WORKING MANUAL offers the same excellent how-to information provide in the black and white counterpart. The book contains many of Horenstein's excellent photographs and offers information regarding filters and developing color prints. While it contains some information on color transparencies (slides), it is somewhat scant and may in the long run be more helpful for printmakers. At a time when digital photography is all the rage, this book is not obsolete since Horenstein's expertise will help ant photographer, no matter what the medium.	2004-02-02
US	34271677	RVZ0MJNPBBQ78	087793746X	811723688	God Who Won't Let Go	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	An Excellent Book By A Respected Spiritual Writer	Peter van Breemen, a Dutch Jesuit, is a popular author who has penned a number of books on spirituality. His writings reflect his training in the Spiritual Exercises of St. Ignatius and are peppered with his vast knowledge of many subjects and his keen understanding of the human condition. The readers of THE GOD WHO WON'T LET GO will certainly see these characteristics of van Breemen at work.<br />Van Breemen would probably be the first to admit that what he says is not all that new or original, but he presents the material in a manner that is both fresh and engaging. He focuses on a variety of themes common in the Christian tradition: God's love, the heart's deepest desires, vocation, redemption and forgiveness. These themes are based on the life and ministry of Jesus Christ, and van Breemen pays special attention to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ as he explores these themes. The chapters of the book seem to flow from one to another rather than read like a treatise, and readers may wonder in what direction van Breemen is leading them. Yet after the book is completed, it is easy to see how it works as a whole, much like talks on a retreat. Since van Bremen does retreat work and spiritual direction, it is likely that he conceived of the idea for this book based on his retreat experience. The book is not meant to be read in one sitting and readers who do so will probably miss much of what van Breemen has to say. The book is ideal for spiritual reading. The chapters are concise and do not take a great deal of time to complete. The chapters also end with short prayers which can lead to further reflection.<br />While the book can be appreciated by just about any audience, it will probably be best appreciated by people familiar with Ignatian spirituality. Van Breemen writes in a style that can reach people at just about any spiritual level in a way that is respectful of a person's intelligence and challenges those who believe they have heard it all before.	2004-01-28
US	34271677	R1PB5E7EBZ8XKY	1582971595	768462938	The Complete Handbook of Novel Writing	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Inspiration For Would Be Writers	Since I have yet to write \\"the great American novel,\\" I probably cannot critique a book such as THE COMPLETE HANDBOOK OF NOVEL WRITING, since I have yet to have a book published. I do want to write a novel one day, and I have been doing quite a bit of writing and rewriting. I have also been doing quite a bit of reading of novels and books on writing theory and have taken part in writing workshops. All of these things have been helpful, particularly the writing workshops. Yet as I write, I do have questions about what I am doing, and like to read practical advice from writers who have been published. THE COMPLETE HANDBOOK OF NOVEL WRITING is such a resource. It contains articles about writing theory and craft, information about genres, and the various markets. The articles have been published in WRITER'S DIGEST magazine and most are penned by well known writers. I am finding the book to be a great reference tool. I have found the book particularly helpful when I have a question about some aspect of writing or need advice and inspiration to keep writing.<br />In the past year I have found that nothing is as helpful as being in a workshop atmosphere, but at those times when I need the advice of an expert, quite often the answer is at my fingertips in this book.	2004-01-28
US	34271677	R1DFLVOPOEAYWM	0826411398	450339322	Lift Your Sails: The Challenge of Being a Christian	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Contemporary Spiritual Classic	A number of years ago I was visiting St. Joseph's Abbey in Spencer, MA and I purchased a book. The man at the counter asked if I wanted an autographed copy, and to be polite, I said yes. The man then took a pen and autographed my book with the inscription \\"To Tim, May the Spirit fill your sails and guide you on your journey-With best wishes-Fr. Vincent, O.C.S.O. I was surprised to actually be talking with a real live author, and found it rather surprising he was working at the gift store counter, but he told me he loved the job and saw it as a service to his religious community. He seemed to be an authentic follower of Christ, and I could hardly wait to read his book.<br />Perhaps because I actually met the author I was more interested in his book, but as I read the pages I discovered the writings of a man who loved God, loved being a priest, and understood modern life and the human condition. While he touches on all the familiar tenets of Christianity: following Christ, love and forgiveness, the importance of prayer, and the dignity of the human person, he shares personal anecdotes from his life, his ministry as a priest, and his meeting such a wide variety of people. We hear about moments when he was sure of his vocation, and moments of challenge. We hear about when he felt the love of God and others, and when this was somewhat difficult. In the end, we find a person who was speaking to his contemporary culture, but does so in a way that even years down the road, the work will be relevant.<br />It was ten years ago when I encountered Fr. Dwyer in the abbey bookstore, and I have probably read the book two or three times. I have used the book in classes and Bible studies over the years and often look for quotes from the book when I give talks or homilies. I always find the words fresh and alive. On a personal level, Fr. Dwyer's words have always seemed like his prayer for me, and I believe his words as well as his prayer have helped me \\"lift my sails.\\"	2004-01-19
US	34271677	R3FXT98WE1HO1J	0345352998	777864927	With Open Hands	Books	4	25	26	N	N	A Help In Opening Ourselves To God	Henri Nouwen had a great ability to take something rather simple and ordinary, and use it a as way to help people understand and experience God. Nouwen's now classic book WITH OPEN HANDS is an excellent example of using a simple image to invite a person to prayer and a deeper experience of God. Clenched fists demonstrate being closed to God, and through reflections on prayer: silence, acceptance, hope, compassion, and prophetic criticism, Nouwen invites us to open our hands and thus, be open to God. This work is excellent for people who are new to prayer or are trying to discover new prayer techniques, but it is profound enough to help all people experience God.	2004-01-19
US	34271677	R2UTFRIZ3TNY71	0826406963	339858861	Open Mind, Open Heart: The Contemplative Dimension of the Gospel	Books	4	19	19	N	N	An Introduction to Contempaltrive Prayer by a True Master	Trappist Monk Fr. Thomas Keating's book OPEN MIND, OPEN HEART is considered by many to be a modern classic on contemplative prayer and an introduction to centering prayer. After attending a workshop on centering prayer and later leading such a workshop, I can attest to the helpfulness of this book and Fr. Keating's important insights. While some are critical of his methods, believing they are heavily influenced by Eastern spiritual practices, this is somewhat misleading. While Keating does use some terminology and references to Eastern techniques, his ideas are based on the tradition of the Cistercians, the Catholic religious order to which be belongs.<br />In the aftermath of Vatican II, many religious orders returned to the texts of their founders and early pioneers so that the orders could be true to their calling. The popularity of contemplative prayer and centering prayer is a result of the Cistercians returning to their founding texts. For Keating, a leader in this effort, this included exploring the writings of St. Benedict, the Desert Fathers and Mothers, Cistercian greats such as Bernard of Clairvaux and Aelred of Rievaulx, and the anonymous author of THE CLOUD OF UNKNOWING. These are hardly radical writers in the history of Christianity. Since these people lived prior to the opening of the east to the west, they could not have been influenced by Eastern spiritual techniques. Certainly as a spiritual master, Keating is familiar with Eastern techniques, but does not use them in a way that is contrary to Christianity. Also, Keating is writing for people, living in the world, and sees this method of prayer as a way of experiencing God for action in the world. It is not intended to make a person draw more inward in a way that is selfish, but rather as a way of being more Christ-like and more self giving.<br />Centering prayer is not for everyone, but it is helpful for many. After reading this book and applying its methods, readers will know whether this technique will be helpful in their own spiritual journeys. For those who may not find this method helpful, certainly Keating's spiritual insights will help the reader draw closer to God in other ways.ue will be helpful in their own spiritual journeys. For those who may not find this method helpful, certainly Keating's spiritual insights will help the reader draw closer to God in other ways.	2004-01-19
US	34271677	R1PUOAU0I6E8H2	0394517830	168193711	A Year at the Met	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Life Backstage at the Met	Patrick Smith had the opportunity to spend the 1981-82 season backstage at the Metropolitan Opera House and this book is the fruit of his work. He tells the story of the opera company on a week by week basis. He tells how the company was only beginning to heal after the labor disputes of the previous year. He also gives play by play descriptions of some of the company's famous productions that year including the disastrous opening night performances of NORMA with Renata Scotto, the success of the now classic Zefferelli production of LA BOHEME, and the stateliness of Leontyne Price who was starring in IL TROVATORE that season. We hear about the in and outs oif the stars, as well as the set crew, orchestra members, support staff, and just about anyone else involved in making opera a reality at the Met.<br />The book is a gem for anyone who enjoys reading about the Met, but it will also be a great find for those who wonder how a company as large as the Met operates and what life is like behind the stage.	2004-01-16
US	34271677	R2T9K6MBJNQVOA	1400032318	136266992	Molto Agitato: The Mayhem Behind the Music at the Metropolitan Opera	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Great Current History of the Met	There have been quite a few great books on the Metropolitan Opera over the years which is only natural since the Met has so many stories to tell. Two interesting books I have enjoyed include Patrick Smith's A YEAR AT THE MET and THE GOLDEN HORSESHOE coauthored by a number of people. Many of the great performers of the Met have included stories about this famed opera house and of course, there are Sir Rudolph Bing's accounts of his years at the house, but there have been very few recent titles that have included modern anecdotes about what is arguably the world's greatest opera house. This makes Johanna Fiedler's MOLTO AGITATO such a welcome addition.<br />Fiedler has long been associated with the Met, and people who listen to the Saturday afternoon broadcasts will be familiar with her name since she is often a quiz panelist. Her name should be familiar to anyone who knows music since she is the daughter of Arthur Fielder, the late legendary conductor of the Boston Pops. Her volume contains many stories about the great legends of yesteryear including Enrico Caruso, Nellie Melba, Kirsten Flagstad, Lauritz Melchior to name a few, as well as the tales of Rudolph Bing, his altercations with Maria Callas, the antics of Kathleen Battle, Renata Scotto, and Luciano Pavarotti. This volume also has quiet a bit about James Levine which any story of the Met would have to include.<br />Ms. Fiedler has a great mind for detail and rather than giving a chronological history, she tells a story with great historical events. She can be both humorous  and catty, but this adds to the overall flavor of the book. She also has a great understanding of the people involved, perhaps due to the fact that she was exposed to great musical personalities most of her life.<br />The paperback version has one great advantage over the hardcover. It includes a chapter that tells of the effect of September 11th on the company as well as current events up until 2003.	2004-01-16
US	34271677	R2E2FDZQ7UX2SD	0374253536	500606751	The Saints' Guide to Happiness	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Book Destined To Become A Spiritual Classic	Robert Ellsberg's ALL SAINTS was well received by many Catholic readers and deservedly so. The biographies found in the first book are well researched and his selection of famous and not so famous Christians (and in a few cases non-Christians) is interesting. Ellsberg once again turns to the well known figures in Christian history in his newest work THE SAINTS' GUIDE TO HAPPINESS.<br />In Billy Joel's song \\"Only the Good Die Young\\" he has the famous line `I'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints; the sinners have much more fun.' Joel's assessment is a somewhat popular misconception of the saints. In many cases we view saints as long suffering men and women who hardly see the joy in life. Ellsberg would not agree with this misconception. Using the writings of many of the traditional saints of Christian history, as well as leading religious figures who are not officially recognized as saints, Ellsberg shows that many of the saints strove to love full and vital lives while on earth and were not simply concerned with enduring life on earth to merit the joys of everlasting life. Ellsberg uses Aristotle's definition of happiness as a springboard, that happiness is not merely a feeling of joy, but rather the fullness of life. Saints lived lives to the full, whether it was through their ministry, their interactions with others, the ways in which they endured hardship and suffering, or the way that they died. Throughout the book the reader sees that Ellsberg has great admiration for his subjects and sees their lives as examples of how we can live our lives.<br />The book appears to be a self help book, but it is not a book that gives the reader answers. Rather, it presents the significant aspects of our lives: being alive, work, loving others, suffering, and death, and presents the saints as guides who can assist us as we navigate our own lives.<br />The book is a rather easy read. Ellsberg's writing has a nice flow to it and the book is well organized. Readers can easily sit and read an entire chapter, or read the book slowly in a reflective manner. The hardcover edition of the book has a ribbon which serves as a bookmark, which makes it easy to use as a devotional tool.eaders can easily sit and read an entire chapter, or read the book slowly in a reflective manner. The hardcover edition of the book has a ribbon which serves as a bookmark, which makes it easy to use as a devotional tool.	2004-01-14
US	34271677	R2CZJ3MVQLR016	0375413081	465648476	True Notebooks	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Writer's Block Can Make A Difference In Someone's Life	TRUE NOTEBOOKS is author Mark Salzman's account of his teaching writing to juvenile offenders in a California youth detention facility. Salzman almost stumbles upon this volunteer opportunity due to a case of writer's block. In the late 1990's, Salzman was at work on a novel that included a juvenile offender and he wanted to make the character more life-like. Salzman hoped that watching a friend teach writing to young prisoners would help, so he went to observe a class. Before he knew it, he was recruited to start a class of his own.<br />A strength of the book is that Salzman does not jump into the role of a social worker but rather remains a writer throughout the book. At times I was reminded of the writing of Jonathan Kozol. Like Kozol, Salzman brings the people in the book to life and the reader feels an instant connection with them. This includes not only the young offenders, but also the staff of the center, and two staff members he especially admired: Sr. Janet Harris and Mr. Sills. Yet the book is more than a piece of journalism or a stereotypical \\"year in the life of a juvenile detention facility.\\" Salzman uses his gifts as a writer, gifts demonstrated in his fictional works, which enable the book to flow. Though the book could easily become too sentimental, Salzman steers clear of this temptation.  He never has any illusions that he is changing the world, but he does realize that what he does touches young lives. He has sympathy for the young people he works with, but he also realizes that these are young men who have committed very serious crimes, and some of them would do the same thing again. In the end the reader has a better understanding of the way in which writing and sharing our writing can help us connect with our truer selves. Perhaps even more importantly, the book shows the difference we can make when we do reach out to others, knowing that the act of reaching out is what matters most.<br />It will be easy for some people to push a book like this aside and dismiss it as a somewhat liberal, do-gooder tract, but hopefully this will not happen in too many cases. Teachers and youth workers will probably find this book fascinating. The book could also be a warning to writers who suffer from writer's block: beware-you never know what you could be getting yourself into when you research your works!is aside and dismiss it as a somewhat liberal, do-gooder tract, but hopefully this will not happen in too many cases. Teachers and youth workers will probably find this book fascinating. The book could also be a warning to writers who suffer from writer's block: beware-you never know what you could be getting yourself into when you research your works!	2004-01-08
US	34271677	R3E4TFCZA63OLI	0879079592	5380029	The Sayings of the Desert Fathers: The Alphabetical Collection	Books	4	110	113	N	N	A Wonderful Collection Of Early Christian Wisdom	I first became interested in the writings of the Desert Fathers and Mothers after reading some of the writings of Kathleen Norris. As a Benedictine Oblate, she discovered this rich and varied writing and incorporated parts of their wisdom into her own writings. When I came across THE SAYINGS OF THE DESERT FATHERS, translated by an Anglican nun, Sr. Benedicta Ward, I read it and saw why the writings intrigued people such as Norris and others such as Thomas Merton. The writings included in this work were written by people who fled to the desert to become examples of holiness. Some of their writings were recorded and reveal much about the human condition. Their joys and struggles in such an austere life are the foundation of this book. Other writings can be somewhat difficult to understand in our day and age, but these writings still prove interesting.<br />The book is organized by individual \\"Abbas\\" in alphabetical order (Greek alphabetical order, that is). The sayings are numbered and readers should probably read the sayings individually rather than as a biography. I have found that reading them in conjunction with prayer is helpful. I will usually read the various passages until one sticks with me and leads to reflection. The words can have a certain power to them that can both challenge and encourage a reader. Some sayings may say nothing to a reader, but eventually one will stumble upon something that captures one's attention.<br />Modern readers will find the wisdom of these ancient Christians thought provoking. Readers get little tidbits about early Christianity and see how many of the challenges to the spiritual life are anything but new. Readers will want to keep certain things in mind when reading this volume. The writers were not writing for a twenty-first century audience. Some of the writings can be brutal, cruel, and in some cases misogynistic. Reading with a historical frame of mind is essential, and by doing so, this ancient wisdom can be very relevant to our day and age.to our day and age.	2003-12-27
US	34271677	R4I3GUMUUK4YN	0374256802	975645251	The Life You Save May Be Your Own: An American Pilgrimage	Books	5	47	50	N	N	A Great Gem in Catholic Literary Scholarship	The title of Paul Elie's book THE LIFE YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN is borrowed from a short story title of Flannery O'Connor, one of the four writers discussed in his book. The other three are Thomas Merton, Dorothy Day, and Walker Percy. The focus of Elie's work is not as much biographical as it is literary. He looks at the two things that connect these four great people: faith and writing, and shows how both work together to produce the great literary output of each author. Elie sees these four people as being part of an informal \\"Catholic\\" school of writers. Elie looks at an analyzes many of the writings of each author, and presents it in a manner that will appeal to the scholar and lay reader as well.  Though the book has biographical information, and is arranged in a chronological manner, biographical and historical details are only provided where absolutely necessary to discuss the literary works of Day, Merton, O'Connor, and Percy.<br />There has been a temptation to see Merton and Day as larger than life, almost saintly figures, Percy and O'Connor as eccentric southerners who happen to be Catholic, and in the case of O'Connor, a Catholic writer trying to impose blatant symbols of faith in all of her writings. Elie certainly admires all four, but shows them from a human point of view. In doing so, he debunks many of the myths surrounding these four figures. From a spiritual point of view, they are just as human as we are, and it is because of their very human struggles that their literary output is possible.<br />Elie breaks important ground by looking at these four great Catholic figures as writers, and his work will undoubtedly set the stage for further study of the literary connections of Merton, Day, O'Connor, and Percy. His book includes copious endnotes that will enable a person to easily find works by and about these four authors. In most chapters Elie discusses each of the four, but he uses breaks after sections about each author which makes reading easier. Elie himself is a book editor and he uses his skills as an editor to write a concise work. The length of the book demonstrates this alone. The text without endnotes is approximately 475 pages. There are certainly individual works about Merton, O'Connor, and Day equal or greater in length than Elie's work, but hardly say as much. I cannot say for certain about Percy since I am not familiar with scholarly or biographical works about him.<br />This book will more than likely be of interest to Catholic readers, but anyone who wishes to study the role of faith in Day, Merton, O'Connor, and Percy, will find this book a great read an a valuable resource.ier. Elie himself is a book editor and he uses his skills as an editor to write a concise work. The length of the book demonstrates this alone. The text without endnotes is approximately 475 pages. There are certainly individual works about Merton, O'Connor, and Day equal or greater in length than Elie's work, but hardly say as much. I cannot say for certain about Percy since I am not familiar with scholarly or biographical works about him.<br />This book will more than likely be of interest to Catholic readers, but anyone who wishes to study the role of faith in Day, Merton, O'Connor, and Percy, will find this book a great read an a valuable resource.	2003-12-11
US	34271677	RY8WSN8IN9SKK	0971545820	589717823	Cape Cod and the National Seashore: A Photographic Essay by Charles Fields	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Great Photographic Collection for Cape Cod Lovers	CAPE COD AND THE NATIONAL SEASHORE is Charles Fields' second book of images from Cape Cod. Fields, along with his wife painter Gail Rogers Fields, are both well known Cape Cod artists with a gallery in Provincetown.  Like his first book, Fields' captures the recognizable Cape Cod sites as well as the lesser known side of Cape Cod. The book includes landscapes, seascapes, nature shots,  people, and places. Many of Fields' images are off the beat and track such as his shots of Barnstable's' Sandy Neck Light and the dune shacks of Provincetown. Other places are familiar such as Truro's Days Cottages. Whether it is the familiar or not so familiar, Fields has the eye of an artist and the images he captures seem new even to people who know the Cape well.<br /><br />This coffee table book is a must for lovers of Cape Cod. It will also find a home in the libraries of people who love good photography.	2003-12-04
US	34271677	R18LIK29WEIXRG	0913573892	231755069	The Social World of Ancient Israel: 1250-587 BCE	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Understanding Ancient Israel	The people of ancient Israel lived in a world where people's roles were clearly defined. Understanding these roles is an important part of interpreting scripture. Biblical scholars Victor Matthews and Don Benjamin attempt to so in their book THE SOCIAL WORLD OF ANCIENT ISRAEL. The book begins with an overview of an Israelite village. The book is then divided into eighteen chapters, each which discusses a different person in the society of the ancient Israelites. The book includes the obvious people such as parents. Monarch, prophet, and religious leaders, but also includes interesting tidbits about slaves, storytellers, widows, and virgins. The book covers a specific period of time, from the Patriarchs until the Babylonian Exile. It is comprehensive enough for scholarly work, but is accessible enough for people involved in preaching or advanced scripture study.	2003-11-29
US	34271677	REUM454ZWYRR4	094357577X	380982347	Manners and Customs in the Bible: Revised Edition	Books	4	32	34	N	N	A Help In Understanding Daily Life in Biblical Times	While the Bible is a fascinating book to read and study, it is easy to forget that the Bible was written over a long period of time. Though historians differ about exact dates, Abraham probably lived anywhere between 1,250 and 1,500 years prior to the birth of Christ, David probably lived about 750 to 1,000 years before Christ's birth, and between 587 B.C. and the writing of the New Testament, life changed almost daily. This is why understanding the daily life of different periods in Biblical history, and knowing that there were often vast differences in customs and practices in the differing periods, is so essential to understanding scripture. Life in Biblical times changed quickly just as much as life in our own day changes rapidly.<br />Biblical scholar Victor Matthews attempts to explain the life and customs in different Biblical periods in his book MANNERS AND CUSTOMS IN THE BIBLE. The book is divided into five major sections: The Patriarchal Period (Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and his sons), The Exile and Settlement (Moses, Joshua, and the Judges), The Monarchy, Exile and Return, and the Intertestamental and New Testament Era (The Persians, Greeks, and Romans). Nearly two thirds of the book covers the period prior to the writing of the New Testament, but this is actually a plus since there are many other resources that cover the New Testament. Readers get bits of information about warfare, government policies, family life, gender roles, marriage customs, business and trade, and a host of other small subjects that make the book interesting to browse through and a must have for scripture study.<br />Though the book is set up in chronological order, it is not really a comprehensive history of the Bible, but a supplement that enriches a historical text. It has a scriptural index which will help people involved in preaching and in research.<br />Certainly this book will be helpful for people who preach and conduct Bible studies, but it will also be of interest to anyone who wants to see how our day and age is both similar to, and differs from people of Biblical times.who wants to see how our day and age is both similar to, and differs from people of Biblical times.	2003-11-28
US	34271677	R24E8NR9F9NBHK	1565633555	565057150	Handbook of Biblical Social Values	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An Excellent Resource	This small volume is an excellent resource for scripture study. It gives a good background to some of the cultural values and practices of the ancient world and how understanding these cultural values can help us as we interpret scripture today.  The values discussed in the book are those that were held by the ancient Jewish people, as well as the values of their neighbors, particularly the Greeks and the Romans. There are many topics in the book which are arranged alphabetically and related subjects are crossed referenced. Many of the topics include bibliographies so that a reader can do further research if he/she wishes. The book contains a scriptural index which for quick reference, always a help for those involved in preaching.<br />The book is edited by noted scripture scholars John J. Pilch and Bruce J. Malina. Many of the contributors are among the best known names in biblical scholarship. The articles themselves are well written and most are easy to read. The book can be helpful for people involved in preaching, but will probably be most helpful for those who conduct scripture classes who wish to explore topics in a deeper manner.	2003-11-22
US	34271677	R3V9BPZBCVUUIK	0375702709	623656058	A Lesson Before Dying (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Oprah Has Good Taste	Ernest Gaines' novel A LESSON BEFORE DYING is a fast paced, powerful novel that can reach readers on many levels. The book takes place in the segregated south of the 1940's. Grant Wiggins, a local educator, is too qualified to be teaching at the local school, but his possibilities are limited due to his race. He has big dreams, but is trapped due to the social conventions of his time. Since he is an educated person, the community expects a great deal from him, especially his grandmother and her friends. He is expected to try and help a young man named Jefferson, an African American who has been sentenced to death, die with the dignity he never had in life and much of the plot revolves around the decisions he has to make regarding Jefferson.<br />The book could easily turn into a moralistic tale where a basically good person does the right thing simply because it is the right thing to do. Gaines avoids this route. Grant struggles with the expectations of others, his own religious beliefs, what he reasonably owes the community, as well as the normal struggles of any young person trying to find joy, happiness, love, and satisfaction in the world. We see in Grant a character who deserves our respect and admiration, not because he is superior, but rather because of the way in which he uses his strengths and wrestles with his own demons.<br /><br />When the book was first published, I purchased quite a few copies for friends. It sat on their shelves until the book was part of Oprah's book club. Then it became a must read. Oprah had great taste in choosing this book.	2003-11-22
US	34271677	R3FZ7N0QQYPW6U	0849917689	495550164	The Christmas Child: A Story of Coming Home	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Read With A Kleenex Handy	Max Lucado's THE CHRISTMAS CHILD is a retelling of an earlier work, THE CHRISTMAS CROSS which is now out of print. The new edition is illustrated with photographs from a movie version of the work<br />If we look at what works and does not work in fiction, THE CHRISTMAS CHILD should not work. It is sappy, sentimental, and predictable. One of these characteristic in a book meant for an adult can work, two of these characteristics would be a maybe at best; all three would be fatal flaws for a book. Yet this work has all three characteristics and all three work together rather well. When a person reads this story about redemption and forgiveness, it is easy to be moved to tears. Lucado has a gift at touching the heart through his writing, and in doing so teaches the essential message of Christianity. The author of this little volume understands the miracle of the Christmas story, but knows that human nature has been weekend by sin, an ever present reality even at Christmas, and that the true miracle of Christmas is the redemption offered through the child born in a manger. Lucado demonstrates this through two very human people: a Chicago journalist who has been having marital problems and a church maintenance worker who has known great tragedy through mistakes he has caused.<br />Some could call THE CHRISTMAS CHILD a CRIPPLED LAMB or JACOB'S GIFT (two Lucado books intended for children) for adults. To put this work in the same category as THE CRIPPLED LAMB and JACOB'S GIFT is a compliment. All three works move the heart and retell the wonderful story of Christmas and how the Christmas message applies to our lives all through the year.	2003-11-15
US	34271677	R26CJZRI42ZM0X	0824514378	604891837	Sex Is Not a Four-Letter Word!: Talking Sex with Children Made Easier	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Helpful Guide for Parents and Religious Educators	Sometimes sexuality educators from a religious perspective undeservedly get a bad rap. If they espouse traditional values, they are often labeled as ignorant and blind. If they have a more liberal perspective, many will be labeled as being unfaithful to scripture and the teachings of many churches. Patricia Martens Miller seems to avoid this trap. She is very grounded in her Catholic perspective, but she is also very aware of the issues facing young people regarding sexuality. She discusses all the major topics of sexuality, including but not limited to morality, homosexuality, AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases, date rape, and sexual abuse. Her book is not as much a statement of Church teaching regarding these issues, but an introduction for parents and religious educators to discuss these issues with young people. While she has the academic credentials to write about these topics, readers will quickly realize she speaks not from an academic pedestal, but from personal experiences in her own life as a mother and educator. This is probably most evident when she writes about helping a young man named Ben come to terms with his sexuality.<br />Some readers may question the orthodoxy of this book, since she does not explicitly say what is right and is not wrong (though she does clearly articulate Catholic teaching), but this is not the goal of the book. The book's goal is to help parents and educators are comfortable about sexuality so that they can help the young people in their charge make good and informed decisions bout sexuality and see sexuality as a gift from God.	2003-11-13
US	34271677	R266Q0I6OFF7CS	0385247672	6195980	An Introduction to the New Testament (Anchor Bible Reference Library)	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A Great One Volume Commentary	In general, I believe that if a person is going to give a book as a gift, a gift certificate is a better option than actually buying the book, unless the person decides to send something to me from my Amazon.com wish list. At this time I have quite a few books I will probably never read that were given to me as gifts.Raymond Brown's AN INTRODUCTION TO THE NEW TESTAMENT is one exception to this rule of mine. I was given this book as a gift and I have used it over and over again.<br />For many years, Raymond Brown was one of the Roman Catholic Church's preeminent scripture scholars. As a matter of fact, he was one of the first biblical scholars taken seriously by non-Catholic scripture scholars. His primary area of expertise is John's Gospel, though he has written well received commentaries on Jesus' birth and death. This volume is a general introduction to the entire New Testament. It includes a section devoted to the major developments in New Testament study, commentaries on the books themselves, and concludes with information about the current quest for the historical Jesus. While the commentaries are general, any one volume commentary would be general, it does help a person studying scripture come up with new insights about a text as well as answer questions about troubling passages.<br />Perhaps what makes this volume so interesting is the number of places Brown includes information that might not ordinarily be found in a one volume commentary. This information can give the reader a new perspective on scripture and demonstrate once again that the Bible has spoken to people in the past, and still continues to speak to people today.	2003-11-13
US	34271677	R3PJO24OQ05VZG	0809126117	301356147	The Churches The Apostles Left Behind	Books	4	48	52	N	N	A True Gem for Church History/Scripture Buffs	THE CHURCHES THE APOSTLES LEFT BEHIND is no longer a new volume, and there has been a great deal of research in the early Church since the publication of this book. None the less, I often find myself going back to this gem of a resource whenever I am trying to find something interesting to present about the various Churches founded by the Apostles. The communities that Brown discusses are those of Paul, both from his letters and the Lucan communities often associated with Paul, Peter, John, and Matthew. Brown looks at these major communities from the traditional point of view, but includes current scholarship at the time of the book's publication as well. While Brown's Catholic perspective is evident in much of his writing, he was asked as a Catholic to address an ecumenical audience, so the book demonstrates what unites Christianity, namely a common early history, rather than what divides us today.<br />During his lifetime, Raymond Brown was a Sulpician priest involved in the training of people for ministry. This book reflects his pastoral concern. Actually, many of the chapters were presented as lectures for people involved in ministry.	2003-11-13
US	34271677	RPC8XH9D0PWET	0814658059	702891612	The Gospel of Luke (Sacra Pagina Series, Vol 3)	Books	5	50	51	N	N	AN EXCELLENT GUIDE TO LUKE'S GOSPEL	I first became aware of the Sacra Pagina commentary of Luke's Gospel when I was taking a course on Luke's Gospel at Boston College. From a student's point of view, the commentary was both insightful and chock full of details. In that same year, the gospel readings in the Roman Catholic Lectionary as well as the Common Lectionary were generally taken from Luke's Gospel, and I would sometimes read the commentaries prior to hearing the Gospel proclaimed in a church. From a spiritual point of view, the commentary also had much to offer.<br />The set up of this commentary is like the other volumes in this series. It begins with a general introduction to the Gospel of Luke as well as current research on this gospel. As far as the actual commentary is concerned, the gospel is divided into major sections and subsection. The sections are divided into the major plot lines of Luke's Gospel, e.g. the birth narratives, early ministry, journey to Jerusalem, etc. Each subsection begins with the scholar's translation of a short gospel passage, has notes about significant words and phrases in the lines that have been translated, and ends with an interpretation of the passage and how it relates to specific themes in the Gospel. Johnson, a noted Catholic scripture scholar and a respected authority on the Gospel of Luke includes ample material in the commentary. His scholarship is current, but also includes historical interpretations as well. While it is evident that Johnson's perspective is Catholic, his sources are not limited to Catholic scholars alone.<br />People who preach will more than likely found this commentary most useful. Since so many of Luke's stories are relatively well known, finding new interpretations that are authentic to the text can be challenging for anyone involved in preaching. Johnson includes a plethora of information that is bound to capture the interest of a congregation or Bible study group. Students will also find the commentary helpful since it includes an extensive bibliography for further research on Luke's Gospel. This commentary may not be that interesting for a person looking for casual or semi-serious scripture study, but people who want to study Luke's Gospel at home or in a small group in an in depth manner will certainly find this book worthwhile.an extensive bibliography for further research on Luke's Gospel. This commentary may not be that interesting for a person looking for casual or semi-serious scripture study, but people who want to study Luke's Gospel at home or in a small group in an in depth manner will certainly find this book worthwhile.	2003-11-13
US	34271677	R8XBULYW073IQ	0809137828	120402494	Losing Your Religion, Finding Your Faith: Spirituality for Young Adults	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Interesting Look at Young Adult Catholic Spirituality	LOSING YOUR RELIGION/FINDING YOUR FAITH, a book by Paulist priest Brett Hoover, presents relevant information regarding young adult spirituality. Hoover is qualified to write this work for two reasons. First, he has worked with young adults as a college campus minister. Second, he is also young himself and has personally navigated the \\"spiritual roadmap\\" he speaks of in his book . Hoover's basic premise is that young people are often raised in a religious tradition, but abandon it at college age. He does not see this as a reason for discouragement since many people rediscover their religion in a new and vital way. The book discusses many of the ways young people lives their faith in ways which are both familiar and different. Hoover has much to offer for people looking for ways to strengthen their faith and offers many suggestions for people hoping to deepen their faith. In many ways the book presents similar themes found in Scottie McLennan's FINDING YOUR RELIGION but the emphasis of the Hoover book is more specific to the Catholic faith. People who are looking to strengthen their faith as well as people in ministry will find this book helpful .	2003-11-08
US	34271677	R2AGVSAXNJHCGG	0060617519	202041730	The Long Loneliness: The Autobiography of the Legendary Catholic Social Activist	Books	5	66	68	N	N	A Classic Conversion Story	Catholic faith fascinates people. How did her spiritual life develop, and how did it influence the remainder of her life? Many wonderful authors, including but not limited to people such as William Miller, Robert Coles, and most recently Paul Elie, have written extensively about Dorothy Day and help us understand this amazing and complex woman, but nothing is more rewarding than reading the writings of Day herself.<br />THE LONG LONELINESS is a classic spiritual tome and is often referred to as Day's spiritual autobiography. In many ways it is similar to Thomas Merton's SEVEN STOREY MOUNTAIN, and it is easily a close second in popularity with many Catholics. Though Day's writing style is much drier than Merton's writing and her story is not quite as spellbinding as the artist and aspiring writer turned monk, the reader can sense God working powerfully in Day's life. If the book were published today, it would probably be categorized as a memoir, rather than an autobiography since day does not as much tell her story as reflect on how God called her to a life of faith.<br />The book is a \\"must read\\" for anyone who loves and admires Dorothy Day. It is also a book that will interest people interested in religious social activism. Yet the book may speak most powerfully to those who are on a spiritual quest themselves, either knowingly or unknowingly.	2003-11-02
US	34271677	RA9OSCX1US1OL	0809138441	321665988	Annulment, the Wedding That Was: How the Church Can Declare a Marriage Null	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A Helpful Guide For Those in the Annulment Process	Annulling a marriage is one of the thorniest practices of the Roman Catholic Church. People who are granted annulments are given a whole new lease on life, but for those who are denied an annulment, the news can be devastating. For Catholics, an annulment means that a sacramental marriage never took place. The most common reaction to this is \\"I went to the wedding, what do you mean a marriage never took place?\\" People begin to wonder if an annulment means that children from such unions are illegitimate (no). Others wonder what right the Church has to declare a marriage null, and see the process as judgmental and vindictive. Others believe that annulments are only granted to those willing to pay a hefty price tag. With so much negative press, it is no wonder why so many people find the annulment process intimidating and decide not to pursue having a marriage annulled.<br />Michael Smith Foster, a Catholic priest and canon lawyer who works at the Marriage Tribunal for the Archdiocese of Boston has written a clear, easy to understand book answering the many questions of what an annulment is, and what an annulment is not. The book is published by Paulist Press, and is set up in a question and answer format, like many book released by this publisher. In discussing the annulment process, the author also explains what a Catholic marriage is supposed to be. His style is pastoral and non-threatening. The book is compassionate and hopeful for people who have been hurt by a marriage coming apart.<br />While this book will be most helpful to people going through the annulment process and those who are ministering to them, it will be of interest to any Catholics who want to understand more about this procedure and what the Church truly teaches about marriage.	2003-11-02
US	34271677	R10EGQETCB8WF8	0802140262	965622109	The Miracle: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A NOVEL BOTH FAMILIAR AND UNFAMILIAR	Any writer who attempts to create a work of fiction with a priest as a protagonist is facing a great challenge. Writers such as George Bernanos and Graham Greene masterfully set the standard to which all other works in this genre are compared. Though THE MIRACLE will probably never be in the same category as DIARY OF A COUNTRY PRIEST or THE POWER AND THE GLORY, John L'Heuroux's Fr. Paul Le Blanc is a multi-dimensional character in a relatively good piece of fiction.<br />THE MIRACLE tells the story of Fr. Paul Le Blanc, a maverick priest in Boston. He is handsome and ready to change the world. The novel takes place in the early 1970's, and Le Blanc is faced with the issues of the day: the aftermath of Vatican II, the debate raging around artificial birth control, Vietnam, and since the novel takes place in Boston, involuntary busing to end desegregation in Boston's Public Schools. Le Blanc, like many young priests, is liberal on these matters, and as a result is sent to a new parish here he has to face his own inadequacies and spiritual trials. His life changes when he is transferred to a new parish and witnesses a miracle, not of his own doing, and he is forced to reexamine his life. He does this through his encounters with a wide range of interesting characters: Fr. Moriarty, a priest with ALS; Rose, the housekeeper and her troubled daughter Mandy; Msgr. Glynn, a loyal churchman; and Annaka Malley, a young parishioner questioning her own life.<br />The book's chief strength is that it does not fall victim to stereotypes. Le Blanc is not a raging alcoholic, a womanizer,.... an atheist, or if it were written today,..... He is a priest who has the ability to minister wonderfully to others, but has difficulty integrating the message in his own life. This is probably a more accurate depiction of what truly ails many priests today, especially as many try to rebuild a church destroyed by the actions of some of their brother priests and the bishops who covered up the matter. We see a man tormented by inner struggles, but these struggles do not seem to interfere with his ministry, though they do interfere with his relationship with God.<br />If the main character of the book is so strong, why does it only rate three stars?<br />Though the book is filled with many colorful characters and the plot moves quickly due to L'Heureux's fluid style, the work is not without its problems. There are some clich&eacute;s. For example, the young, radical priest being sent to an out of the way parish to care for a sick pastor and learn humility reminds the reader of the film THE CARDINAL. His encounter with an Annaka Malley, one of the female characters, has been told again and again in other writings. People familiar with Boston's history will know that the leader of the Archdiocese at the time, Cardinal Humberto Medeiros was an outspoken critic of those opposed to busing, and his position made him reviled in Boston, unlike the bishop of the book who does not want to cause a stir. A bishop who was socially liberal but theologically conservative, as Medeiros was, conflicting with Le Blanc, would probably strengthen the book. Keep in mind, I write this as a native Bostonian. I also did not have a feeling that I was reading a book about a priest in the 1970's, as much as a book about a priest of the 1990's put in a 1970's setting.<br />Even though it is not a perfect book, readers familiar with Catholicism who enjoy exploring the faith through fiction will undoubtedly enjoy the book as I did.er. We see a man tormented by inner struggles, but these struggles do not seem to interfere with his ministry, though they do interfere with his relationship with God. <br />If the main character of the book is so strong, why does it only rate three stars?<br />Though the book is filled with many colorful characters and the plot moves quickly due to L'Heureux's fluid style, the work is not without its problems. There are some clichés. For example, the young, radical priest being sent to an out of the way parish to care for a sick pastor and learn humility reminds the reader of the film THE CARDINAL. His encounter with an Annaka Malley, one of the female characters, has been told again and again in other writings. People familiar with Boston's history will know that the leader of the Archdiocese at the time, Cardinal Humberto Medeiros was an outspoken critic of those opposed to busing, and his position made him reviled in Boston, unlike the bishop of the book who does not want to cause a stir. A bishop who was socially liberal but theologically conservative, as Medeiros was, conflicting with Le Blanc, would probably strengthen the book. Keep in mind, I write this as a native Bostonian. I also did not have a feeling that I was reading a book about a priest in the 1970's, as much as a book about a priest of the 1990's put in a 1970's setting. <br />Even though it is not a perfect book, readers familiar with Catholicism who enjoy exploring the faith through fiction will undoubtedly enjoy the book as I did.	2003-11-01
US	34271677	RPFA1X2KZ0XX4	0679759263	127056417	The Soloist	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A Musician Begins to Live Again	THE SOLOIST was a book that caught me by surprise. I purchased it on impulse, and like many impulse buys, it sat on my bookcase for quite a while until I had time to read it. I finally had the opportunity to read it while snowed in during a major winter storm, and I believe I read it in one sitting. There are so many elements in this book that make it a compelling read. The main character Renne is lonely and isolated. Readers immediately like him, and probably feel sorry for him since he appears to be a washout both musically and personally. Readers will get a sense that he is sad, but not tragic, and has the potential for a fuller life.<br />In the book, Renne looks back reflectively at major events in his life. Renne was once a child prodigy, studied with a great master of the cello, but his success was fleeting. By the time he reached adulthood, he lost the promise of his youthful musical career. His life is somewhat empty. When he is not teaching cello at a university, he is alone in his apartment. Three things change this drastically: he is a juror in a murder trail, he meets a love interest, and he encounters a young six year old child who may also be a prodigy. In the murder trail, Renne dares to be the lone voice of conscience. His love affair was doomed from the beginning since the woman was married, but it was an important first step for Renne. His tutoring the young potential prodigy is the most powerful aspect of the book. In this relationship, Renne may be facing his own childhood when he sees the young boy who is pressured by immigrant parents much in the same way he was pressured by his Jewish parents who escaped Nazi Germany. The changes that all three bring about happen rather quickly, but it is entirely believable.<br />This work is no longer new, but it is likely that readers, who are new to Salzman via the publication of his most recent work TRUE NOTEBOOKS, will be interested in his other works. THE SOLIST will show the gifts he has as a writer and was able to share in with his charges in TRUE NOTEBOOKS.and was able to share in with his charges in TRUE NOTEBOOKS.	2003-10-30
US	34271677	R11ZGP2GN8QNTI	0060927542	144842880	Mr. Ives' Christmas	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Beautiful Tale of Faith and Forgiveness	When MR IVES' CHRISTMAS was first published, I read the book in just about one sitting, promptly purchased a number of copies of the book, and gave it as a Christmas gift to close friends and family. I still find myself buying multiple copies of the book as presents. The book tells the story of Edward Ives, a character Hijuelos has lovingly created. Ives' life is a mixture of joy and tragedy. Christmas is significant in this novel since many of the joyous events in Ives' life happen at Christmas, yet it is ironic that many of the tragic events of Ives' life dovetail the Christmas too. Immediately the reader connects with Ives. He deserves his wonderful wife and his model son. Ives' world is turned upside down when his son, who longs to be a priest, is killed in a senseless act of violence. Ives' becomes obsessed with reforming the young man who murdered his son. The book could easily be clich&eacute;. He is a firm believing Catholic, but he is no saint. He is a wonderful husband, but his marriage is troubled at various points. He wants to reform his son's killer, but he is also tormented by depression and loss.<br />The book is not necessarily a heart warming book. The Christmas story does not magically transform the events that have taken place in the book, but Ives' belief in, and questioning of the miracle behind the Christmas story is perhaps what makes the book so complex. The faith of Edward Ives is real and lived. The book does demonstrate, through a memorable and likable Edward Ives, the pivotal role that faith can play in a person's life, and how faith helps us cope and live rather than understand all the answers to life's questions.	2003-10-24
US	34271677	R2BZIJVFU6VVB7	0679428526	183974253	National Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds: Eastern Region, Revised Edition	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An Excellent Field Guide for Birders	This is an excellent guide to identifying birds. The National Audubon Society is an excellent authority on all things nature, and therefore it is not surprising that the National Audubon Society would publish a helpful guide. The guide helps a birder identify birds by behavior, size, habitat, plumage, call, and location. There are color photographs of many birds to guide the birder. The plates are grouped by family which makes basic identification easy. The book also has a section that describes each bird as well as maps that show the likely locations where birds can be found.  The color plates are enjoyable simply to look at, and can help a person prepare for possible sightings. The book is small enough that it can be carried to the field. The cover is also durable so it can withstand wear and tear. Since the boos are divided buy Eastern Region and Western Region, so the book is not very cumbersome.	2003-10-22
US	34271677	R2QCA7Y3YLTVQH	2880462754	771505899	Action Photography: Approaches and Techniques for Recording the Decisive Moment (Pro-photo)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Guide to Action Photography	ACTION PHOTOGRAPHY is another Jonathan Hilton book in the Pro-Photo series. Like other Pro-Photo books, it is filled with excellent images of beautiful action photographs that will motivate both amateur and professional photographers. The examples Hilton includes not only demonstrate the action but also the emotions involved. Like other Pro-Photo books, the book is long on beauty but short on technical information, which for action photography is perhaps more important than other types of photography. It also was published before digital photography became popular, so while it will inspire any photographer, it will not give the technical information helpful in this digital age.	2003-10-22
US	34271677	R39DIB5S5TUFZ6	0679428518	972855207	National Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds, Western Region	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An Excellent Field Guide for Birders	This is an excellent guide to identifying birds. The National Audubon Society is an excellent authority on all things nature, and therefore it is not surprising that the National Audubon Society would publish a helpful guide. The guide helps a birder identify birds by behavior, size, habitat, plumage, call, and location. There are color photographs of many birds to guide the birder. The plates are grouped by family which makes basic identification easy. The book also has a section that describes each bird as well as maps that show the likely locations where birds can be found.  The color plates are enjoyable simply to look at, and can help a person prepare for possible sightings. The book is small enough that it can be carried to the field. The cover is also durable so it can withstand wear and tear. Since the boos are divided buy Eastern Region and Western Region, so the book is not very cumbersome.	2003-10-22
US	34271677	R1D57BHPLJ2EEA	0876053320	332712761	The Essential Rabbit	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Good Rabbit Care Book, Great Pictures!	THE ESSENTIAL RABBIT is a relatively recent addition to rabbit care books. It contains all of the basic information about rabbit care and has more of a focus on keeping rabbits indoors which is helpful. The author paid great attention to the organization and layout of the book which makes the book easy to use. While other rabbit books such as WHY DOES MY RABBIT by Anne McBride and THE HOUSE RABBIT HANDBOOK contain more in depth information, this book would be wonderful to use with children. It is well organized and easy to read, so parents and children can use the book together.<br />There is one strength of this book over most of the other rabbit care books which may be a major reason why I purchased the book. I am an amateur photographer and this book has some of the best photographs of rabbits. It will give the reader plenty of ideas for photographing pets. I find it is simply a pleasure to rummage through the pages from time to time.	2003-10-18
US	34271677	R1K0KWEHTW6H9W	1566403154	754713028	Edward Hopper's New England (Essential Paintings)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Wonderful Collection of Edward Hopper Paintings	EDWARD HOPPER'S NEW ENGLAND is a collection of some of Hopper's works of art inspired during his travels in New England. Though Hopper was primarily a New York artist, he spent many summers in New England and produced many of his most memorable paintings during his visits. Some of his visits were to New England's best known artist colonies such as Gloucester, Monhegan Island in Maine, and Provincetown. People familiar with current Cape Cod artists will see the way in which Hopper inspired a good number of them when they see his paintings of Truro and Provincetown, two of Hopper's favorite locales. Many of the locations can still be found today, though they have changed over the years. The paintings of Gloucester bring the simplicity of this old fishing community alive. The pictures from Maine are some of Hopper's famous depictions of lighthouses and sailing vessels. Some nature scenics are also included in this volume. The landscapes, architecture, boats, and people depicted in Hopper's work show his range as an artist.<br />People who love Hopper's work will appreciate this book because it contains not only some of Hopper's better known works from various museums but also works in private collections.<br />Hopper's subjects are not complex, nor are they glamorous in and of themselves, but with an artist such as Hopper, we are able top see beauty in places we might otherwise miss. This book is a must for people who love and appreciate artists' renditions of New England. It is also a perfect gift for people who love New England.	2003-10-18
US	34271677	R109K2PFYX9IWJ	0060641665	160769686	The Real Jesus: The Misguided Quest for the Historical Jesus and the Truth of the Traditional Go	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Helpful Guide to Understaning the Historical Jesus Debate	In the mid-1990's, the popular media was paying great attention to the work of the so called \\"Jesus Seminar.\\" This group offered new and often controversial interpretations of the gospels. Headlines of major magazines would often read \\"Did Jesus Really Teach the Our Father?\\" or \\"Is the Resurrection True?\\" Sometimes the magazines would have articles about these issues and devote front covers to them, often at Christmas or Easter. Some of the conclusions of the Jesus Seminar were interesting and enlightening, but in many cases were misleading. The Jesus Seminar needed a careful and critical response from those who did not agree with their positions, and this response came from noted Biblical scholar Luke Timothy Johnson.<br />Johnson looks at the major players in the historical Jesus debate, and refutes many of them, though he also acknowledges their contributions. Johnson's major critique is that the Jesus Seminar looks only at certain phrases of the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, as well as the Gnostic Gospel of Thomas, while discounting much of the other portions of the New Testament, especially St. Paul. Johnson acknowledges the critical role that the sayings of Jesus play in understanding Jesus Christ, but believes that we cannot possibly understand Jesus if we do not look at the other writings of the New Testament and how early Christians understood Jesus. He further details this position in his book LIVING JESUS.<br />Johnson's view is more holistic than that of the Jesus Seminar, and fits how many non-Fundamentalist Christian groups see Jesus Christ. It should also be noted that Johnson is not a conservative scholar. He is somewhat progressive and not all of his views are consistent with some traditional Christian thinkers. Johnson is not a conservative attacking liberals but one progressive defending traditional beliefs about Jesus Christ.<br />The book is easy to read, and Johnson fairly represents all sides of the debate. Even those who may not agree with all of his positions will find the book helpful simply because he is able to analyze the debate as he offers his position.with all of his positions will find the book helpful simply because he is able to analyze the debate as he offers his position.	2003-10-18
US	34271677	R14G20NL765FU5	0877935009	259698667	God's Passionate Desire: And Our Response	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Helpful Words From a Gifted Spiritual Writer	William Barry, SJ is a gifted spiritual writer in the Jesuit tradition. GOD'S PASSIONATE DESIRE AND OUR RESPONSE is one of his strongest works. This book, like Barry's other books, centers around the premise that people want to be in relationship with God, but God also wants to be in relationship with us. Doing the will of God for Barry is not simply doing what God asks of us, but our discovering God's will through discernment. We do not do God's will simply because we have to out of obedience, but rather because God's will is the deepest desire of our heart.<br />The book is divided into seventeen chapters, and each chapter reads like a mini retreat talk or homily. While the chapters can be read individually, one seems to build upon another so it is best to read the book sequentially. The book starts with our basic relationship with God, our attraction to God as well as our resistance. The book delves briefly into a theology of God (Does God need us, what is our role in God's plan, etc.). The purpose of the theology is to help the reader think about God in both familiar and different ways. Finally the book concludes with what we do with our prayer and discernment, namely how we do God's will in our world. Barry is able to blend the spiritual and contemplative side of our lives and how this spiritual and contemplative side can lead us into action in our world.<br />Perhaps the reason the reflections Fr. Barry offers in this book can be so helpful is due to his training as a Jesuit and his work as a spiritual director. The Jesuit tradition is evident in his writings, but his chapters also show both his own spiritual progress as well as the insights he has gained as a spiritual director helping others draw closer to God.	2003-10-18
US	34271677	R3ED76VGI7F2OI	0060609176	48611944	Meeting Jesus Again for the First Time: The Historical Jesus and the Heart of Contemporary Faith	Books	3	68	78	N	N	A Catchy Title for a Pretty Good Book	When the book MEETING JESUS AGAIN FOR THE FIRST TIME was published in 1994, it caused quite a stir. The book was the product of Biblical scholar Marcus Borg, a member of \\"The Jesus Seminar.\\" This group of scholars retranslated the Gospels of Jesus Christ, including the Gospel of Thomas, generally considered to be a Gnostic text and therefore not included in the canon of scripture. The major controversy surrounding the group centers around the sayings of Jesus Christ that the group considers actual words of Jesus Christ and those which the scholars believe are additions by the evangelists or some of Jesus' other disciples. The seminar's intention is good enough. It wants to strip from Jesus Christ some of the layers of tradition that these scholars believe obscure the true message of Jesus Christ. The major difficulty is that the members of the Jesus Seminar discount the role of tradition in understanding Jesus Christ, which turns out to take away some of Jesus' most critical teachings.<br />Borg, more than any other member of the group, tries to make his research applicable to believers today. This book is one of his efforts. While readers will more than likely find Borg's ideas interesting, and will know that they are reading the book of a scholar who has done a great deal of research, readers may also find that the book seems to be lacking something. The Jesus of this book is comforting, but not very challenging. If the Jesus of this book lived today, he would probably live in a nice community, be active in somewhat progressive and liberal organizations, vote Democrat, and attend a mainline Protestant denomination or liberal Catholic Church. This Jesus would have a social consciousness but would not be as strong in social justice issues as a reader of the catholic Worker or Sojourners would be. Jesus Christ would be somewhat upper middle class and followers such as Mary Magdalene would be soccer moms.<br />While some of this review might sound a bit tongue in cheek, or even a bit sarcastic, I do believe the book is important. Even if people do not agree with all of Borg's findings, he does challenge us to rethink what we know and believe about Jesus Christ. Such a rethinking keeps Christian communities alive. I also know people who have read the book who have been alienated from Christianity due to the harsh way in which the faith was taught, differences with mainline Churches regarding sexuality, or people who are simply uncomfortable with formal religion yet want to belong to a religious group. This book has helped these readers that everyone can find a home in Christianity. If people disagree with this finding, I do not recommend rereading Borg's book, but the gospels on which the book is based to see that Borg's inviting words are in keeping with the teachings of Jesus.ek, or even a bit sarcastic, I do believe the book is important. Even if people do not agree with all of Borg's findings, he does challenge us to rethink what we know and believe about Jesus Christ. Such a rethinking keeps Christian communities alive. I also know people who have read the book who have been alienated from Christianity due to the harsh way in which the faith was taught, differences with mainline Churches regarding sexuality, or people who are simply uncomfortable with formal religion yet want to belong to a religious group. This book has helped these readers that everyone can find a home in Christianity. If people disagree with this finding, I do not recommend rereading Borg's book, but the gospels on which the book is based to see that Borg's inviting words are in keeping with the teachings of Jesus.	2003-10-18
US	34271677	R22GZN31D9WJ9G	0812042026	441448784	The New Rabbit Handbook: Everything About Purchase, Care, Nutrition, Breeding, and Behavior (New Pet Handbooks)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Helpful Secondary Book For Rabbit Care	This particular book has not been the most helpful rabbit care book for me, not because of the content, but because it seems to focus more on keeping outdoor rabbits rather than indoor rabbits. It also assumes that rabbit care is the top priority of those who keep rabbits. Most of us, who keep rabbits as house pets do not have the time to hunt and gather the food the author suggests. We buy hay and pellets at the local pet store and provide a few fruit slices as a treat. However, this book is helpful. For one thing it lists poisonous plants as well as edible food that rabbits enjoy. Since rabbits always seem to find a way to eat something they are not supposed to eat (I paid $436 in vet bills when my Dutch decided to eat a calla lily), information about keeping rabbits out of mischief and appropriate food is helpful. The book is also illustrated and contains wonderful plates identifying certain breeds of rabbits as well as description of various breeds.<br />Probably the greatest strength of this book is that it takes rabbit care seriously, just as one would care for a dog or cat. Its major flaw is that it is now a bit dated. I would recommend this book as a secondary handbook and since it is not too expensive, it is worth having on the shelf.	2003-10-16
US	34271677	R3NVYRMC4C18P1	0679451234	403267350	The Sibley Guide to Bird Life & Behavior	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Must Have for Serious Birders	THE SIBLEY GUIDE TO BIRD LIFE AND BEHAVIOR is the follow up to Sibley's first book on birding. This book has the same sort of illustrations that make his first book so helpful. This book is more in depth and contains articles on bird biology as well as general information on various species. Though the guide bears Sibley's name, he is the illustrator and the text in the book is written by leading ornithologists. It is an excellent book for those who not only want to identify birds, but know a bit more about the birds that are sighted.<br />This book will be helpful to those who have an idea of the birds likely to be seen on a birding trip. By reading ahead of time, the experience can often be more fruitful, that is if Mother Nature cooperates and supplies the birds one hopes to see.	2003-10-13
US	34271677	RJRCGTATOSXUX	0679451226	809423063	The Sibley Guide to Birds	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Guide for Novice and Veteran Alike	I got interesting in birding via photography. I enjoyed our fine feathered friends as much as anyone, but in most cases I thought a bird was just a bird. When people in my camera club displayed their photographs of birds, I began realizing the great diversity in the bird world and became a more objective bird watcher. I am now getting better at identifying birds, and THE SIBLEY GUIDE TO BIRDS has been an indispensable guide.<br />The author, David Allen Sibley is the son of a famous ornithologist Fred Sibley, and began drawing birds at a young age. His love for birds has continued into his adult years and this book is a product of that love. He is a skilled artist and the book includes numerous illustrations of various birds, the different plumages of the birds, and the birds at flight. The variety of illustrations will help a novice birder identify different species with relative ease. The book groups the birds into categories based on species and includes the subspecies of the major groupings. The book also has helpful hints on identifying birds by size, characteristics of the particular bird, color, and call.<br />Due to the size of the book, it is not easy to carry the book while birding as it would be smaller guides. The best idea would be to take a smaller guide while birding for preliminary identification, and upon returning home compare notes with the SIBLEY GUIDE to fully appreciate the varied species of birds in North America.	2003-10-13
US	34271677	R2B6I708846QH5	0824516796	508567043	All Saints: Daily Reflections on Saints, Prophets, and Witnesses for Our Time	Books	4	7	9	N	N	An Interesting Mix of Exceptional People	ALL SAINTS is similar in style to well known collection of saints biographies such as BUTLER'S LIVES OF THE SAINTS. His book, like Butler's, designates a saint for each day and has a biography that follows, but set up is where the similarity ends. The people in Ellsberg's collection of short biographies are not all canonized saints. While he includes many familiar saints such as Mary the Mother of God, St. Anthony of Egypt, St. Agnes, St. Patrick, St. Monica, and St. Augustine, he also includes non canonized people such as Dorothy Day, Dom Helder Camera, and Thomas Merton. Some of the people included are from religious traditions other than Christianity. Ellsberg includes them because their exceptional lives teach us virtue. Each biography gives the reader something to think about and can be a tool for both teaching and prayer.	2003-10-12
US	34271677	R3O0BMV44WKCRF	068486276X	826370631	Commonweal Confronts the Century : Liberal Convictions,  Catholic Tradition	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Great Collection of Top Contemporary Catholic Thinkers	This book contains reprints of articles from COMMONWEAL magazine as a way of commemorating the 75th anniversary of the magazine and celebrating the new century and millennium. COMMONWEAL  is an unapologetically liberal Catholic publication that seems to strike the right balance between being progressive while also being true to the tradition of the Church. The book does not contain anything startling or new, but this is not a flaw since it is a collection of  \\"best of\\" articles. Some of the well known contributors include Thomas Merton, Dorothy Day, Evelyn Waugh, Cardinal Joseph Bernadin, and Daniel Berrigan as well as contemporary Catholics speaking out on issues today such as Elizabeth Johnson. Paul Elie, Margaret O'Brien Steinfels and Peter Steinfels. The book can be helpful for those who are interested in the social justice teachings of the Catholic Church, how many Catholics address important issues in contemporary society, as well as people who want to hear what some of the great thinkers of Catholicism had to say in their day and age.	2003-10-12
US	34271677	R20KUOL4Z6FMBR	0881505420	299448547	The Colors of Fall: A Celebration of New England's Foliage Season	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Beautiful Souvenir of a Fall Day in New England	This is a book for people who love the fall season in New England. New Hampshire photographers Jerry and Marcy Monkman have masterfully used their cameras to capture the beauty of autumn in this region of the country in their book THE COLORS OF FALL. The two are authors of Appalachian Trail guides to the White Mountains of New Hampshire and Arcadia National Park (as a matter of fact, they love Arcadia National park so much, the even named their first child Arcadia). Their knowledge and love of the area is evident in the photos presented in the book. Some of the shots are of familiar places, others are less well known. Many of the photographs contained in this book are grand scenic shots of the mountains in New Hampshire, Maine, and Vermont, or the raging rivers in New Hampshire. Yet they also include close ups of smaller detailed subjects that are often ignored when we make foliage trips. Many of these shots demonstrate the Monkmans mastery of the camera.<br />Those who have not had the opportunity to visit New England in the fall can take a vicarious trip with this book. For those of us who live in New England, the book gives us the opportunity to appreciate the beauty of this place we call home.	2003-10-12
US	34271677	R2T93O4FCYGHM1	0812045513	194311795	Hop To It: A Guide to Training Your Pet Rabbit (Pet Series: Training)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Good Backup Resource	HOP TO IT is a compact book on rabbit care written by a woman who obviously and unashamedly loves rabbits. Much of the information in the book is based on her experiences with rabbits as pets and it does have some helpful information based on lessons she has learned the hard way. Her stories about her own pet rabbits as well as the rabbits of friends are helpful, and in some cases amusing. It has helped me understated some rabbit quirks which is, of course, important. I would not recommend this book as a primary care manual for rabbits, but rather as a supplement to a book such as WHY DOES MY RABBIT? by Anne McBride or THE HOUSE RABBIT HANDBOOK, both of which are chock full of helpful information and seem to have veterinary expertise.	2003-10-09
US	34271677	R3K7JNR8UV7IMN	1565639847	972071375	Paul's Metaphors: Their Context and Character	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Helpful Guide to Understanding St. Paul's Language	St. Paul once said \\"I try to be all things to all people in hope of saving a few.\\" He was speaking about his methods of evangelization. Something must have worked because he was a great missionary and some of his writings still survive today and are preserved in scripture. One of his strengths was his ability to say things that people would understand. Often he did this comparing Christianity to familiar scenes from daily life in the Roman Empire. St. Paul often sued examples from daily life at home, and life in the city. He referred to athletic events, business transactions, life in the military, and a host of other things. David J. Williams compiles many of these examples and comments on them in his book  PAUL'S METAPHORS.<br />Since the book is filled with information and is somewhat dense, it does not make easy sit down reading, though excerpts could be used for spiritual or inspirational information. This book would be a wonderful aid to anyone with an interest in St. Paul's letters, and it has ample notes for people looking for further study. It will be especially helpful to people who preach and are looking for new angles for homilies and sermons. I found the book especially helpful when preparing Bible Study lessons and the people participating in the group found the Williams' insight enlightening too.	2003-10-08
US	34271677	RJZ8GC7PUWU8C	0802860729	284969405	Soul Searchers: An Anthology of Spiritual Journeys	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Wonderful Collection of Spiritual Giants	Teresa de Bertodano has collected a number of wonderful spiritual excerpts and has included them in this book about the spiritual journey. Most of the people included in the book are well known Christians such as St. Therese of Lisieux, Thomas Merton, St. Augustine, John Wesley and St. Ignatius of Loyola. Some are people such as Edith Piaf or Mary Mc Aleese, people we normally do not associate with faith, or at least religious writing. Other inclusions are more ecumenical such as Gandhi or Anne Frank. Each offers something that can help us in our search for God.<br />The book is divided into three sections, each referred to as a journey. The first journey deals with beginning in the spiritual life. The second journey deals with  midlife, or times when God surprises our routine. The last section deals with our final journey or death. The book can be read cover to cover, which is probably the best way to appreciate the way the works are included, or in bits and pieces in a way that interests the reader.	2003-10-08
US	34271677	RGONSWPJN0518	0884894274	224790242	The Wisdom of Memoir: Reading and Writing Life's Sacred Texts	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Finding God's Wisdom in our Lives	All a person has to do is look at the best seller list, walk into a bookstore, or see the current crop of books offered by Amazon.com too see that memoirs are very popular. Though many would technically be in the category of autobiography, this is not always the best fit because in many cases these books focus on a  few specific memories rather than an entire life, and often offer a lesson learned from the experience, that I suppose could put many of these books in a self help category as well.<br />For people who are reading these memoirs from a spiritual point of view, Peter Gilmour's THE WISDOM OF MEMOIR is very helpful. The book helps a reader see God at work in people's lives. While some of the memoirs Gilmour highlights are religious or spiritual in nature, others are not. Gilmour gives many of these works an added dimension by looking at them from a religious point of view. By looking at these spiritual aspects of religious and non-religious biography and memoir, we can apply and see these things in our won lives. While the book does not specifically talk about writing a memoir the way a writing book may, it does offer advice for people who keep journals as a spiritual practice.	2003-10-04
US	34271677	RGD9M34D8723D	0385494114	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A Debate Starter, But That's About It	First I would like to state something for the record. I am a practicing and believing Catholic. I know the Church is not perfect, and some of its failures are serious and in some cases, particularly the recent cover up of sexual abuse cases, criminally wrong and morally reprehensible. I am also somewhat middle of the road theologically. Perhaps since I am middle of the road, I can only give PAPAL SIN mixed reviews. I want the Church to preserve its strengths, namely the Sacramental life of the Church, its overall excellent record of human rights issues and social teachings since World War II, and its teachings on the sanctity of life. I also know there are many areas where change is needed, and I am anxiously awaiting change.<br />Wills speaks about a number of issues in the book and many of the issues mentioned in his book have proven to be very true in recent years. He mentions the structural problems of the Church in detail, and how these problems are from the top down, so to speak. He also mentions issues such as pedophilia and gay clergy as issues. He also mentions hot button issues such as abortion, birth control, and controversy surrounding issues such as annulments. He also has an interesting point regarding the clergy shortage; Wills does not see celibacy as the only reason for the shortage. Wills argues that a major reason fort a vocational decline has as much to do with people not believing all that the Church has to teach. In each issue, Wills states the challenges and difficulties rather well. He knows where people disagree and why. This is probably the book's chief strength.<br />Wills has his critics. Since he is a former Jesuit priest, his book is often viewed as nothing more than his anger at the Church. This is false. I have heard Wills speak publicly, and I believe he does love the Church, and in most cases stating he has an ax to grind and the book is only a means to grind the ax, is too simplistic. My problem stems more from the fact that he takes a little bit of this, a little bit of that, and combines it. While this happens all of the time in many books, for a book on Catholicism this can often be erroneous and misleading. Catholic teaching is a principle based, and arguments for and against must be based on principle. Wills knowledge is broad, which is good. His arguments are also broad, which is not as helpful as a principle based argument should be. Again when I heard him speak, he could not counter criticisms of his work which made me wonder, what are his conclusions based on?<br />So is the book useful? Yes. In a time that people are sincerely trying to reform the Church, and have the best of intentions of doing so, Wills book poses interesting questions that need to be looked at and discussed in depth, certainly by the laity and clergy, but also by the hierarchy. However, if the book is read, it should be read firm a mindset that this author is presenting his opinion, and can base much of it on fact, but for the good and the bad, it is just an opinion.kes a little bit of this, a little bit of that, and combines it. While this happens all of the time in many books, for a book on Catholicism this can often be erroneous and misleading. Catholic teaching is a principle based, and arguments for and against must be based on principle. Wills knowledge is broad, which is good. His arguments are also broad, which is not as helpful as a principle based argument should be. Again when I heard him speak, he could not counter criticisms of his work which made me wonder, what are his conclusions based on?<br />So is the book useful? Yes. In a time that people are sincerely trying to reform the Church, and have the best of intentions of doing so, Wills book poses interesting questions that need to be looked at and discussed in depth, certainly by the laity and clergy, but also by the hierarchy. However, if the book is read, it should be read firm a mindset that this author is presenting his opinion, and can base much of it on fact, but for the good and the bad, it is just an opinion.	2003-10-02
US	34271677	R3A35H7YG3J34W	0814625045	531924008	The Changing Face of the Priesthood: A Reflection on the Priest's Crisis of Soul	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An Honest, Loving, yet Critical Look at Priesthood	When I heard Donald Cozzens speak about a year ago, he started off his talk by saying something to the effect of \\"Some of you may have heard I wrote a book and you know about chapter 7. There are other chapters as well.\\" Chapter 7 deals with sexual orientation and the priesthood and at the time, it got quite a bit of press coverage. The heart of the book went largely ignored. Interestingly he even included a chapter on clergy sexual abuse, why it needs to be addressed and how it can be remedied, but the interest in this chapter was scant as compared with the chapter on sexual orientation. Many of the issues covered were hardly as sensational. Other reformers had called for optional celibacy. Others studies noted the discontent in priesthood or the identity crisis facing many in the priesthood. Still, many who read this work believed it could not be ignored. Fr. Cozzens was after all, a former seminary rector, charged with the responsibility of training priests. He should know, shouldn't he? Shouldn't his words be acknowledged as accurate? Interestingly, in January 2002, when the clergy sexual abuse crisis hit the front pages of newspapers, and rumors people believed to be malicious turned all too often turned out to be true, many realized that Fr. Cozzens book was not a critical look at ministerial priesthood, but rather prophetic.<br />Cozzens book is important to the debate on how the priesthood needs to be reformed. His words are impassioned, but not biased. He clearly loves his priesthood, but knows that the ministry of a priest is far more important than clinging to models which may be impractical and ideals which may be impossible to attain. His book is not one that offers simple solutions, but rather challenges a person to examine the priesthood and the Church itself with the goal of saving, and not destroying and institution through which many find Christ.	2003-09-28
US	34271677	R2GL4RHZPD770V	0895261448	353169735	Goodbye, Good Men: How Liberals Brought Corruption into the Catholic Church	Books	1	29	80	N	N	Good Bye Bad Book	When GOOD BYE, GOOD MEN was published about a year ago, the scandals in the Catholic Church were still making the front pages. Boston's Cardinal Law had yet to resign, and each day things seemed to be getting worse. Michael's Rose's book did stir quite a sensation, and judging from news reports, as well as writings of others, he had some valid points, namely that the troubles the Church is facing today have their roots in liberal theology and an influx of gay men into the priesthood. However, Rose's book is not based on hard evidence. Most of what he has to say is at best anecdotal, and even though he claims to be a defender of the true Church, he repeats rumors and half truths that do more harm than good. While his goal is to reform the priesthood, his book is actually fodder for anti-Catholic bigots who want to discredit any of the good the Church has done and point to its faults and failings. Changing times, the difficulties associated with the celibate life, and people not agreeing with Church teachings are more accurate reasons as to why there is a priest shortage.<br />Some of what Rose has to say can be substantiated in the writings of George Weigel, David Gibson, and Donald Cozzens, each who sees the problems Rose tries to address in a different way, but there is a great difference. While the Cozzens, Gibson, and Weigel each have differing points of view, one can see that each has the best interest of the Church in mind. Rose may also love the Church and want to see it change, but his work seems to simply defame, much as blind Republicans defame Bill Clinton at any cost without looking at the truth, or liberal Democrats do to George W. Bush.<br />As I take a good look at this book, I am thinking it can be useful. I think I will put it with my recyclables as a way of saving the environment. I know I will not need it as a reference on changing the Church.	2003-09-27
US	34271677	R1KXQUGRMR139C	0809134829	425200967	What Do I Want in Prayer?	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Helpful Insights into Prayer	William Barry's WHAT DO I WANT IN PRAYER was published nearly ten years ago, but his information is still very helpful for those who wish to grow spiritually. Fr. Barry is a well known Catholic writer and retreat director. His works flow from his Jesuit/Ignatian perspective and training. Fr. Barry believes that God can be experienced in daily life and prayer can help us become more aware of God's working in our lives.<br />The book is not so much a \\"how to\\" pray book, but more of a book to help a person get more out of prayer. He invites his readers to view the book as a retreat and each chapter can be used as a mini retreat talk. The chapters contain prayer exercises which rely heavily on scripture and a person getting personally involved in the scripture passages. The chapters help a person get in touch with the deepest desires of the heart and aid a person in getting to know Jesus in a more personal manner. Readers will discover that Barry leads a person from the very basics to a desire to serve God in all things.<br />This book is helpful to people who want to experience more from prayer and is written in a manner that is inviting. For people more mature in prayer and spiritual techniques, it will more than likely include new insights that will deepen the life of prayer. The book can be used by individuals, but it can also be interesting to use this book with a prayer group.	2003-09-26
US	34271677	R32X2IN2VR2YS8	2880463505	635219764	Photographing Animals & Pets (Pro-Photo Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Tips For Photgraphing Animals in their Glory	The books in the Pro-Photo series all share a few common characteristics. Each contains exquisite examples of photography that inspire a person to take out a camera and capture a special moment, person, or event. Unfortunately, many of the books are short on technique. PHOTGRAPHING ANIMALS AND PETS has the best of both worlds: great examples and practical technical information as well. All of the animals in the book seem exotic, whether the creature is a household pet, a farm animal, or an animal photographed in the wild. The book also has information on photographing fish in aquariums-underwater photography from dry land! Since the book was first published prior to the dawn of digital photography, digital buffs may not find the technical information in the book helpful, but everyone will find the photography inspiring!	2003-09-26
US	34271677	R1JJE9Z0423UO2	0940920123	765138503	House Rabbit Handbook: How to Live with an Urban Rabbit	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Practical Information about House Rabbits	THE HOUSE RABBIT HANDBOOK is an essential guide for anyone who has a rabbit as a house pet. The book contains information regarding rabbit behavior in a home that is very accurate; at least it seems accurate when I look at the behavior of my two rabbits. The author believes that rabbits can have just as much personality as a dog or a cat and assumes that people who keep rabbits as pets wish to interact with them. So if your goal is to keep a rabbit in a cage in the backyard, this book will not be all that helpful. If on the other hand you want a unique pet that is curious, capable of being entertaining, a bit on the mischievous side, and yes, even loving, this book will he of great help.<br />The book contains all the basic information about rabbit care in a home setting. Care, feeding, grooming, attending to health needs, and the like are covered. There are also suggestions about rabbit-proofing a home and the pros and cons of allowing rabbits to roam freely around the house.<br />For me, the most helpful section of the book dealt with introducing a new rabbit my first rabbit. I assumed that since he was so friendly, a new friend would be perfect. I was wrong. He was a terror and wanted nothing to do with his new playmate. Now one is lost without the other. The suggestions of this book really worked.<br />While the information in the book is based on sound veterinary advice, the reader quickly realizes that the author relies heavily on personal experience as well. The techniques she espouses flow from her experience. Ideally, people will want to read this book prior to getting a rabbit, especially since it contains valuable information about preparing for the rabbit to come home. However, if you, like me find yourself in a crisis situation with a rabbit and need to find a book with answers, this book will be a godsend.<br />Just one piece of advice. Don't leave the book on the floor by mistake. I am noticing a few little nibbles on the binding. Though I am a voracious reader, I do not think that the nibbles are the way I devour my books.ous reader, I do not think that the nibbles are the way I devour my books.	2003-09-26
US	34271677	RJ3JIJAMZZZ6T	0738503193	861463860	Lighthouses and Lifesaving Along the Maine and New Hampshire Sea Coast (Images of America)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Attention Lighthouse Enthusiasts	People who love lighthouses know that the Maine coast is dotted with lighthouses and that this portion of New England is a lighthouse lover's paradise. LIGHTHOUSES AND LIFE SAVING ALONG THE MAINE AND NEW HAMPSHIRE COAST is a must for East Coast lighthouse lovers. The book is similar to Claflin's other books on lighthouses and life saving in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. It is filled with older photographs of the places and people involved in this way of life. Readers who have visited the lighthouses and life saving stations of Maine in recent years will be amazed at how remote some of these locations once were. The small commentaries that follow many of the pictures helps create a sense of history of these bygone days.  This book helps recreate the romantic appeal of the days when lighthouses and life saving stations were in their glory, but a reader will also get a sense of the dangers and sacrifice involved on the part of those who dedicated their lives to this service.	2003-09-26
US	34271677	R1HDUCGQ3ECRVQ	0752413724	589323946	Lighthouses and Life Saving: Along the Massachusetts Coast (Images of America)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Must for Massachusetts Lighthouse Buffs	LIGHTHOUSES AND LIFE SAVING ALONG THE MASSACHUSETTS COAST is part of the IMAGES OF AMERICA series. The content of the book consists mainly of pictures of the lighthouses and life saving stations as well as the people who staffed them. The book takes a person back to bygone days and shows the heroic people who dedicate their lives to navigational safety. The photographs show how lighthouse keeping was often a family affair. The book contains many rare historical photos of lighthouses that are still standing as well as some that no longer exist such as Egg Rock Light in Swampscott. There are also photographs of lighthouses in their original locations such as the Three Sisters in Eastham and the Twin Lights at Chatham.<br />As helpful as the book will be for lighthouse lovers, perhaps the best feature of the book is the inclusion of photos and bylines regarding the life saving stations. The photos not only show the predecessors of today's Coast Guard in action, we see the actual faces of these heroic people. The photos can remind us of how difficult life at sea can be, and the risks the staff at life saving stations took trying to rescue troubled vessels.	2003-09-26
US	34271677	R213IDMXQ0SK41	2880463750	506091853	People in the Environment: Photography (Pro-Photo Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Great Ideas for Candid Photography	PEOPLE IN THE ENVIRONMENT is another how to book from Pro-Photo. The purpose of this book is not to show studio photographs, but to take candid shots that have the quality of a studio photograph. The photographs are not simply snap shots. The photographs are taken in the natural setting of every day life truly tell a story. Like other Pro-Photo books, it is somewhat short on how to techniques, and since it was first published before the dawn of digital equipment, the technical information in this book issomewhat sparse. Yet Jonathan Hilton, the book's author and photo editor, again selects exquisite photographs that will inspire anyone who loves photography to take beautiful pictures.	2003-09-25
US	34271677	R2112MZCXZ5B5R	1565123891	815454330	A Kiss from Maddalena	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Beautiful and Engaging Love Story	A KISS FROM MADDALENA captures love and reality in World War II Italy and the years immediately following the war. We meet the young Vito Leone who is madly in love with the beautiful Maddalena Piccineli, the youngest daughter of the village's storekeeper. At first, Maddalena wants nothing to do with the loveable, yet goofy Vito. Vito is hardly handsome, has a limited future, and is considered too much of a mama's boy. Besides, her parents want their favorite daughter to marry someone more worthy of her love than Vito. Gradually she sees the charm of this genuinely good young man. The war separates the two, and changes after the war test the couple. The characters are so well developed, and the details of the story are so vivid, the reader immediately is drawn into the work. Maddalena has to make very important choices in the novel. If she marries the man her parents prefer, she will risk losing their love, but doing so would crush Vito. The reader wonders which way she will go, will she marry the man she loves and hurt her parents, or will she hurt Vito?<br />The two main characters of the book are real flesh and blood people, and the reader cannot help but love them both. Readers will immediately develop a soft spot for Vito; he is the epitome of goodness. He unselfishly cares for his mentally ill mother even though it means putting his own life and ambitions on hold, he will do anything for anyone, and he deserves to be loved by someone as good as Maddalena. Readers will sympathize with Maddalena as well, a girl who wants to please everyone yet also wants to be happy. Throughout the work readers will hope that she is able to follow her heart.<br />Though the book is an old fashioned love story, it is never sentimental, and it does not follow conventional twists. It is realistic in the way it depicts World War II and the conflicts in Italy after the overthrow of Mussolini. The village of Santa Cecelia, where most of the action takes place, is the sort of village most people would imagine in a remote section of Italy, and it has a certain Old World charm, yet the interactions of the people in the village show that it is not necessary Italy's version of heaven on earth. Conflicts develop which give the village a realistic flair.<br />In the dedication page of the novel, the author dedicates the book to his parents, calling it his love letter to them. Judging from the exquisite writing of these pages, combined with lovable characters, historical accuracy, and a memorable plot, the reader can make one conclusion. Christopher Castellani must deeply love his parents.ost people would imagine in a remote section of Italy, and it has a certain Old World charm, yet the interactions of the people in the village show that it is not necessary Italy's version of heaven on earth. Conflicts develop which give the village a realistic flair.<br />In the dedication page of the novel, the author dedicates the book to his parents, calling it his love letter to them. Judging from the exquisite writing of these pages, combined with lovable characters, historical accuracy, and a memorable plot, the reader can make one conclusion. Christopher Castellani must deeply love his parents.	2003-09-25
US	34271677	R8CTXKTXPW8RH	0763619302	277470351	The Christmas Miracle of Jonathan Toomey	Books	5	62	63	N	N	A Heartwarming Story of the Magic of the Christmas Story	THE CHRISTMAS MIRACLE OF JONATHAN TWOMEY is a simple and heartwarming story. The plot is simple enough. Jonathan is lonely and still mourning the loss of his wife and child. The pain of this loss makes it difficult for Jonathan to open up to others. Though many respect his talent as a wood carver, he is mistakenly judged as a miserable and mean spirited person. His life begins to change when a local widow orders a new manger scene and requests that her son watch Jonathan at work since the child hopes to be a woodcarver one day. The boys simple goodness as well as the magic of the Christmas story begin to have an effect on Jonathan and he is eventually able to accept the love that the mother and her son wish to offer him. The transformation is gradual and therefore rings as authentic.<br />Ms.  Wojciechowski tells a beautiful story. She weaves her words in a masterful way that will certainly engage a childs imagination. An as is the case in many stories labeled for children, the book holds universal truths that will touch an adult heart as well.	2003-09-22
US	34271677	RJZYIGGM0PF02	1400301300	394781904	Jacob's Gift (Max Lucado's Christmas Collections)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Very Special Christmas Present	JACOB'S GIFT is another wonderful retelling of the Christmas story by Christian author Max Lucado. Jacob is a young carpenter apprentice who has a creative imagination. He often finds himself ridiculed by the other children who do recognize his talents, but the master carpenter, Rabbi Simoen, recognizes and encourages the talent of Jacob.<br />The class gets excited about a carpentry project that will be judged by Simeon's nephew, a carpenter who will be visiting Bethlehem very soon. Jacob decides to build hay troth on wheels. He is busy at work when he hears a cry from a stable. A child has been born, but it has no crib. Jacob wonders if he should ignore the cry, or give the young couple the unfinished hay troth to use as a crib even though it will mean he will not have a project for the contest. Jacob decides to give away the troth. When he begins to tell Rabbi Simeon why he has no project, the nephew arrives. He is none other than Joseph who proudly tells the story of his son as well as the generosity of the Jacob whose gift saved the day.<br />Lucado is again able to tell the familiar story of the birth of Christ in an interesting and engaging manner. The artwork by illustrator Robert Hunt will capture the imaginations of younger children. The book is also suited for older children as well since Jacob is probably a preteen and has to make an important moral choice	2003-09-22
US	34271677	R1KWOJ0FSIBA3I	0849910056	627934014	The Crippled Lamb	Books	5	20	23	N	N	The Christmas Story from a New Perspective	THE CRIPPLED LAMB is quickly becoming a new Christmas classic for children. It tells the story of the birth of Christ through the eyes of Joshua, a little lamb. Joshua is disabled and therefore unable to graze in the fields since he cannot keep up with the others. He has to stay behind with his friend, Abigail the cow who tries to cheer him up by telling him \\"God has a special place for those who feel left out.\\"  Joshua has the opportunity to be part of God's plan when Jesus is born. Mary and Joseph do not have a blanket and Joshua sits next too the child to offer him warmth and be a blanket for the Christ child.<br />This book is a collaborative effort of well known Christian author Max Lucado and his three daughters Jenna, Andrea, and Sara. The book also contains beautiful artwork by illustrator Liz Bonham. The artwork alone is worth the price of the book.<br />If you are planning on purchasing this book as a gift, I recommend purchasing at least tow copies. It is such a wonderful and heartwarming book, you may not want to give it away.	2003-09-22
US	34271677	RF3GGWAR8IMHT	2880463742	863622199	Special Occasion Photography (Pro-Photo Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Photo Ideas for That Special Time	Jonathan Hilton has put together a number of wonderful photography books for the Pro-Photo series, and Special Occasions Photography is one of the best. Though it does not include a great deal of technical information (especially for digital photographers), he does illustrate the book with exquisite photographs of a variety of occasions. The sports photography section includes not just professionals, but amateurs as well. There are also wonderful shots of weddings, religious ceremonies, and portraits. Though the technical information is scant, the photographs will inspire fellow photographers to go out and creatively capture people at all sorts of moments and record it on film (or digitally).	2003-09-19
US	34271677	R3D4OHYO7TKT6	0806518626	886543616	What's Your Opera I.Q.?: Over 100 Quizzes for Opera Lovers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	How To Be Smarter Than You Really Are	Like many Americans, I first fell in love with opera listening to The Metropolitan Opera broadcasts on Saturday afternoons. Often I enjoyed the intermission features as much as the opera itself, my favorite being the Texaco Opera Quiz. I could never answer the questions, except perhaps the name that tune variety. After years of listening and feeling rather unsophisticated, I came across the book What's Your Opera I.Q.? I figured I could at least learn trivial bits of information from the book. I began looking at the quizzes, and found that I could answer some of the questions on the radio quiz without reading countless other books simply by taking these opera quizzes. The book contains opera quizzes on every imaginable subject from the obvious such as composers and singers to famous books read by opera characters, animals that play a role in opera, quizzes about opera history, and the like. The book is fun, makes learning about opera enjoyable, can make the reader look smarter than he/she is, and who knows, the reader may land a spot on the Saturday afternoon Metropolitan Opera Quiz.	2003-09-19
US	34271677	R2HOC4YTHDV0HU	0892439203	166544314	Priesthood Imperiled: A Critical Examination of Ministry in the Catholic Church	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A LOving But Critical Look at Priesthood	In his lifetime, Bernard Haring was a revered theologian, but he was controversial as well. He played a significant role in the Second Vatican Council where he was well received, but his later writings, particularly his writings concerning moral theology have been labeled by some to be too liberal, and others view his writings as nothing short of heretical. None the less he persevered in spite of the controversy surrounding him and contributed a great deal to the faith.<br />One of his last works is called Priesthood Impaired, and it was published in 1996, shortly before his death. In the book the reader will see his great love for the priesthood, but also a critical examination of a ministry in need of change and revitalization. The book is part historical, part theological, and very personal. His concerns are not all that surprising. Naturally he looks at priestly celibacy as an issue, but he also wonders if the lack of attention paid to the priesthood during Vatican II is due in part to today's problems. Other issues in his book include the outdated model of priesthood stemming from the 19th century model, and how this model can often keep priests from their true vocation. Inadequate seminary training is also a concern. Still, the readers can see he loves both the priesthood and the Church, so the book seems more hope filled rather than just an analysis of difficulties.<br />Since the book was published in 1996, many of the problems facing today's Catholic Church are not specifically addressed, and some could disagree with some of his claims, particularly that clericalism is long gone. Still, the book deserves reexamination. One interesting note is a story that he includes about a German priest who opposed the Nazis. The Nazis threatened to expose his relationship with a woman and his love child. Rather than be intimidated, the priest admitted his transgression to the congregation, which in turn forgave him. Haring was calling for transparency in the Church before the crisis which I suppose puts him more in the category of prophet rather than critic.re the crisis which I suppose puts him more in the category of prophet rather than critic.	2003-09-19
US	34271677	R2R8ANDH8OS9UY	0800628845	866019007	LONG AGO GOD SPOKE - paper edition (Rule of Law; 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A New Way to Look at the Old Testament	For many people, many portions of the Hebrew Scriptures can be forbidding. The people live in violent times and God can seemingly be as violent and vengeful as well. Many scripture scholars have wrestled with the challenging rewords of these texts and Professor Holladay is among the best. The book is an overview of the Old Testament rather than a commentary of specific passages. It contains enough basic information which makes it accessible for readers unfamiliar with Biblical scholarship, but presents it in a fresh manner so that people who are familiar with Old Testament will be able to see these writings in a new manner. I have found this book most helpful when conducting scripture studies for adults. Many of the participants found his insights regarding God's wrath being seen in light of God's love very comforting, prophecies being true not as a future event but in the lives of the people of the prophet's day interesting, and saw a human side to people who lived centuries ago. The exegetical background of the book is extensive, but the book's pastoral approach is probably its greatest strength. This is not a dry study of the Hebrew Scriptures, but one that can easily be applied to daily life. This is due, no doubt to the fact that the majority of Professor Holladay's students are training for careers in ministry.	2003-09-18
US	34271677	R165YA391B3RME	0800634705	591372938	Palestine in the Time of Jesus: Social Structures and Social Conflicts	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Understanding the World Jesus Lived In	Palestine in the time of Jesus is an excellent resource for students of scripture, preachers, and anyone who is interested in life at the time of Jesus Christ. The book pays attention to the archeological evidence that can help us better understand scripture, but its greatest strength is the way in which it looks at the social world of Jesus' days. Hansen and Oakman delve into topics such as kinship, patronage, public religion (as opposed to personal faith) and economic realities. Some of the information in the book can be somewhat complicated, especially when a twenty first century reader attempts to think in terms of the mindset of a person living in ancient Palestine, but thinking in the mindset of a person in the ancient world can help a reader better understand the world Jesus was speaking to and apply the message to the world of today. Preachers who are tired of delivering the same old sermon or homily can find new twists for old passages after reading this book--insights that can challenge congregations to think about scripture in a new way without upsetting the faith.<br />The book has an ample bibliography fore students doing research. It also contains a scriptural and ancient writings index, an author cited index, as well as a general index for quick reference.<br />Just an interesting note: When I first purchased this book two years ago, I looked for reviews by putting the name Douglas Oakman in a search engine. In the process I came across his own website that includes a listing of his other publications as well as links to other scripture related sites. H e also includes links to some of his other interests including jazz and railroads.	2003-09-17
US	34271677	R1D1EIFAV1RWVX	2880462762	512580156	Photographing Children (Pro-photo)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hints for Capturing Childhood	Photographing children is both a joy and a challenge. The innocence and vitality of children make them ideal subjects, but more often than not, children have too much energy to sit still in front of a camera for too long. Jonathan Hilton's book on photographing children can be of great assistance, especially for people who want original looking photos of quality, rather than simply a snapshot. His book offers tips on posing, lighting, taking formal photographs, candid, and special occasion photos. He also handles challenges such as costumes, the use of props, and best capturing children in their natural state as children. He also includes tips on intergenerational photography. To illustrate his points, Hilton includes the work of many other photographers, most of whom are professionals in England. Personal favorites include the work of Juliet Greene, Majken Kruse, Robin Dance, and the exquisite black and white photography of Belgian photographer Georges-Charles Vanryk<br />Digital photographers will not find specific information about equipment as film photographers will, but the ideas of this book will give inspiration to any camera enthusiast.	2003-09-17
US	34271677	R97JH5JVXWJ2F	0060657499	760053052	Dorothy Day: A Biography	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Moving Biography of a Modern Day Saint	I first read William Miller's biography of Dorothy Day in 1984, a few years after it was published. I immediately grew to have a great appreciation for this complex woman who contributed so much to the Catholic social conscience of the United States. Her life is botha witness to Jeusu Christ and a challenge to live the gospel radically. Miller was a personal friend of Dorothy Day and his work was written a few years after her death. The book contains many details about her early life, conversion, and her work with Peter Maurin establishing The Catholic Worker movement including the renowned newspaper and houses of hospitality. Her pro-labor and anti-war activities are also chronicled. Miller also mentions Day's connections with a number of well known luminaries such as Thomas Merton, Dan and Phil Berrigan, and her altercations with Cardinal Spellman. This book is a fascinating examination of a great woman and a slice of Catholicism that is often ignored.	2003-09-17
US	34271677	R2Z62RO8JS0CJV	1563382733	477257058	Bandits, Prophets, and Messiahs: Popular Movements at the Time of Jesus	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Help in Understanding the World of Jesus	The world of Jesus Christ was hardly static. Uprisings, rebellions, and subversive groups popped up all of the time, especially in Jewish lands where Roman occupation was equal to slavery in the eyes of most Jewish people. This made rebellion almost a religious duty even though many of the religious authorities did not share this point of view. Some of the rebellious groups had limited success, others had disastrous ends. Bandits, Prophets, and Messiahs helps the reader understand the different movements in the days of Jesus and help modern readers understand why Jesus' message was so controversial, not just in terms of content, but politically and socially as well. The author looks at the historical realities of the Jewish people and the connection with religious and political figures that sprung up in the Roman Empire, particularly in Palestine, in the days of Jesus Christ and in the early New Testament days.  Readers are able to distinguish those who might be \\"rebels without a cause\\" so to speak, and legitimate groups that had serious religious and/or political objectives. The author culled much of the information from lectures given to students which gives the work a scholarly feel in an accessible manner. The book contains a scripture cited index which will help readers who may be students researching a topic, preachers preparing a sermon or homily, or person who is fascinated by the background to the Bible.	2003-09-17
US	34271677	R2CR90TKOHFTD7	1584651822	712790882	Becoming Cape Cod: Creating a Seaside Resort (Revisiting New England)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	You're Gonna Fall In Love With Old  Cape Cod	Becoming Cape Cod is an indispensable book for anyone who loves this Massachusetts vacation community and wishes to know more about its history. O'Connell's book tells the history of Cape Cod's development as a vacation resort and includes a quite a few details about this magical peninsula. He does a good job blending the historical significance of the Cape and some of the pop culture icons of the area. It is written in a factual manner which sometimes makes reading dry, but O'Connell remedies this with an exquisite collections of post cards used to illustrate the book. For those familiar with the Cape, the post card illustrations provide a nostalgic trip back to yesteryear. Humorous antique postcards poke fun at the stereotype of typical Caper Codders. Some of the classic post cards show well known tourist favorites now gone such as Thompson's Clam Bar, Story Land and the Band concerts in Chatham with Whit Tileston, legendary band leader front and center (actually the concerts still continue, though Mr. Tileston is deceased).<br />This book will be best appreciated by readers who are familiar with Cape Cod. If it is read while listening to the old Patty Page song, we will certainly believe her words are true and fall in love with Old Cape Cod.	2003-09-13
US	34271677	R26WB2TVMEYF4C	0971545804	588076118	Provincetown and the National Seashore: A Photographic Essay	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Combination of Natural Beauty and the Unique	If imitation is the greatest form of flattery, many photographers both amateur (me) and professional, will be in awe of this book. It will also be loved and appreciated by tourists who visit the area. I first came across this book last year when I did a slide show on Cape Cod and needed a few shots of this portion of the Cape. I did not copy Mr. Fields' work (largely because I am not as gifted a photographer), but the book inspired me. This is due to his interesting perspective of the area. His best photographs are those of the dunes and the areas along the national seashore, but he also includes typical Cape Cod shots such as vacationers, fishing boats, and historical landmarks. He also includes photographs of a few of the more outlandish sides of Provincetown, which makes Provincetown fun for many people and shows that Fields is adept at using his camera to tell a story.	2003-09-13
US	34271677	R3VYV5W9AH6ZN1	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Book Everyone Wants To Read	I was in a bookstore while on vacation a few weeks ago. The young bookseller became very excited when a woman went to the cash register to purchase a book. The book was The Da Vinci Code by Dan Brown. This young man, an aspiring writer himself, loved this book and hoped that he would one day write as clever and masterful a tale as he believed Dan Brown did. I was next in line and he asked me if I had read it. I told him I had started it, and he wondered how I could put it down. I told him there is a very good reason why I could not finish it. The people I love the most, namely my family members and friends are always taking it from me so the can read it. He told me he understood because the book is addictive. The woman purchasing the book could hardly wait to get home and read.<br />It seems as if The Da Vinci Code has caught the interest of many people, and after reading the book, it is easy to see why. Dan Brown tells a masterful tale about a modern day search for the Holy Grail. This is not an ordinary Grail myth story, however. It involves murder, police investigations, and takes the reader into a variety of organizations including the upper echelon of the Roman Catholic Church, Interpol, a secret Swiss bank, Opus Dei, and the Freemasons. A wide variety of well developed characters are found in the story, and throughout the book it is often difficult to tell who is good and who is evil-the story moves so quickly that one can seem to be good and turn out evil, and others go from evil to good.  In the hands of a less skilled author, this could be a distraction, but Brown is able to use this technique to keep the story moving.  Unlike some suspense novels, which often contain one dimensional characters, the reader really begins to care about this novel's characters and sees them as complex people.<br />The book is well researched. Brown seems to know many of the current religious debates, particularly regarding Gnostic writings of the early Church and the controversy surrounding these writings. A person such as Robert Langdon, the main character and a Harvard professor would be in the heat of such a debate since some of the theories in the book are from the research of Harvard scholars. Some readers could find some of Brown's pages heretical, others may wonder if what he has to say is true. Remember, the genre of the book is fiction, and if Brown's theories make you think, it only means he is a gifted writer, not that Christianity is hiding something. If anything, the book views both faith and belief in a positive manner.<br />If you are purchasing this book, read it fast, or better yet, order as second copy just in case your friends and loved ones decide to borrow it and you will have to wait to discover the secrets of this wonderful book.sy surrounding these writings. A person such as Robert Langdon, the main character and a Harvard professor would be in the heat of such a debate since some of the theories in the book are from the research of Harvard scholars. Some readers could find some of Brown's pages heretical, others may wonder if what he has to say is true. Remember, the genre of the book is fiction, and if Brown's theories make you think, it only means he is a gifted writer, not that Christianity is hiding something. If anything, the book views both faith and belief in a positive manner.<br />If you are purchasing this book, read it fast, or better yet, order as second copy just in case your friends and loved ones decide to borrow it and you will have to wait to discover the secrets of this wonderful book.	2003-09-13
US	34271677	R2UNHLORBXN60Y	0142196150	595813778	Thirty Days: On Retreat with the Exercises of St. Ignatius (Compass)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	On Retreat with a Poet and Scholar	Paul Mariani, a writer and English professor at Boston College, completed a thirty day retreat based on the Spiritual Exercises of St. Ignatius of Loyola. His journal reflections from this retreat are the basis of the book's content. For those who are familiar with the spirituality of St. Ignatius, as well as those who have completed the thirty day retreat or variations of this retreat, the book will be of great value.<br />The book has many strong points. The first has to be Mariani's openness to what the retreat may have to offer and his willingness to share what he has experienced while completing the retreat. His observations are a combination of poetry, theology, and a keen insight into himself. He freely draws upon times when the Lord has worked in his life as well as moments where he has blocked God's work. He is painfully honest in the book, freely sharing his love and admiration of his wife Eileen, who has not joined him for the retreat. He also shares intimate moments in his life, including the time when he left his wife and three sons which nearly destroyed his marriage. His book is honest, but not confessional which gives it a bit of an advantage over a standard memoir. The reader does not see just a person who has made mistakes, (or as Mariani openly admits, a sinner), but a person who allows himself to be an instrument through which God's grace flows and transforms.<br />People who have been on retreat at Eastern Point in Gloucester will instantly find themselves back at this powerful retreat house simply by reading the pages. Mariani writes descriptively about the retreat house and its beautiful natural surroundings. I usually make an annual retreat at Eastern Point but was unable to do so this past year, In many ways Mariani's sharing of his experiences as well as the atmosphere allowed me to take a vicarious retreat as I anxiously await the opportunity to make a retreat in Gloucester early in the new year. This book is destined to become a classic for those who love Ignatian spirituality. Fans of spiritual writer and poet Kathleen Norris may also enjoy this book. Like Norris, Mariani is also a poet as well as a scholar and biographer of poets. The spirituality of both Mariani and Norris permeates their writings and lives, and as poets perhaps they help us too see God in a vibrant and creative way that often eludes some great theologians.for those who love Ignatian spirituality. Fans of spiritual writer and poet Kathleen Norris may also enjoy this book. Like Norris, Mariani is also a poet as well as a scholar and biographer of poets. The spirituality of both Mariani and Norris permeates their writings and lives, and as poets perhaps they help us too see God in a vibrant and creative way that often eludes some great theologians.	2003-09-07
US	34271677	R1HBND7G7X058U	0060530707	724200247	The Coming Catholic Church: How the Faithful Are Shaping a New American Catholicism	Books	4	61	73	N	N	Medicine for a Church in Need of Healing	In the past two years it seems as if more books seem to have been published on Roman Catholicism than at any other time. The most recent books have focusing not as much on the Church, but ht clergy sexual abuse scandal that has plagued the Church and how the Church ought to respond. David Gibson's book The Coming Catholic Church belongs in this genre.<br />Gibson divides the book into three sections: one devoted to the laity, another devoted to priesthood, and a third section focuses on the episcopacy. Gibson seems very hopeful that the laity can and should play a significant role in reform. He does have some criticisms of the laity and while he does not blame the current scandal on lay people or take a simplistic view that if lay people had more of a say, none of this would have ever happened, he does warn against the danger of putting clergy members on too high a pedestal (something that will probably not happen anytime too soon). Gibson is both sympathetic and critical of the priesthood. He basically sees priests as good hearted people, but also caught in the traps of clericalism. While he supports a married clergy, he also sees the value of celibacy in some cases. He supports a broader membership in the clergy so that the Church will not only be relevant, but will also have enough priests to maintain the Sacramental life of the Church. Gibson is most critical of the bishops, and seems to believe they are hopelessly irrelevant and while he is hopeful of changes in the laity and priesthood, he seems less hopeful as far as the episcopacy is concerned. While he admires Pope John Paul II, he seems to present a thesis that the problem with the bishops is that there are too many John Paul II clones. For this reason he hopes that the Pope's eventual successor will have John Paul II's dedication and enthusiasm, but will also be open to reform.<br />The book is accurate and well researched something that is probably due to his talent as a journalist. A bit of editing could help, for some parts are a bit repetitious. He has many opinions, but is able to back up his opinions with fact. His voice offers a different perspective, which is probably why I found this book quite significant. Gibson is a journalist, not a theologian, member of the clergy, or religious life. Many of the most recent books about the scandal are written by Church insiders, both liberal and conservative, who often times have an agenda. Gibson has a point of view, but this comes from his love of his Church, and purely from that love.  Gibson also offers his point of view from the eyes of a Catholic, but not a life long Catholic. As a convert, Gibson seems to be able to see what is essentially Catholic and offer a fresh and balanced point of view. In my opinion, this is what Gibson attempts to do, and in many ways did it satisfactorily.d help, for some parts are a bit repetitious. He has many opinions, but is able to back up his opinions with fact. His voice offers a different perspective, which is probably why I found this book quite significant. Gibson is a journalist, not a theologian, member of the clergy, or religious life. Many of the most recent books about the scandal are written by Church insiders, both liberal and conservative, who often times have an agenda. Gibson has a point of view, but this comes from his love of his Church, and purely from that love.  Gibson also offers his point of view from the eyes of a Catholic, but not a life long Catholic. As a convert, Gibson seems to be able to see what is essentially Catholic and offer a fresh and balanced point of view. In my opinion, this is what Gibson attempts to do, and in many ways did it satisfactorily.	2003-09-06
US	34271677	R2Y5YGWJXI3SFY	0688142974	221246579	Biblical Literacy: The Most Important People, Events, and Ideas of the Hebrew Bible	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A Helpful Resource in Understanding Scripture	I first became interested in the Bible as a child. It began after watching the movie The Ten Commandments. I loved this larger than life epic and I started reading the Bible. I have discovered that the Bible does not have the razzle dazzle special effects of a Cecil B. De Mille film, but when a person carefully watches the Tem Commandments, one can see it's all hype. The Bible, on the other hand, is not hype, and for many people, can be life sustaining. Both Jewish and Christian lovers of scripture who want an aid to help the Bible become a little easier to understand will more than likely find Biblical Literacy by Rabbi Joseph Telushkin very helpful.<br />Rabbi Telushkin's book is basically a Clifs Notes summary of the Hebrew Scriptures, filled with all sorts of anecdotes, commentary, and rabbinic interpretation, compiled by a person of faith. It is elementary enough for people who may be new to these texts, but profound enough for people who know these passages rather well.<br />Personally, I found the book helpful for two reasons. As a person involved in religious education for a number of years, I appreciate his approach for people whop may be searching for something in life. His writing is inviting and compassionate. If his writing is any sign of the vitality of his congregation, it must be flourishing and thriving. As a Christian, the book helped me see the Hebrew Scriptures on their own rather than from the point of view of 2,000 years of Christian tradition. This book can help a Christian view scripture as Jesus did, and help fill in gaps caused by misunderstanding. I actually used this book in my Bible study and nearly all the participants who read the book found it both helpful and insightful.	2003-09-04
US	34271677	R1P9RLVVVMSPYE	1558749020	80065301	Chicken Soup for the Grieving Soul: Stories About Life, Death and Overcoming the Loss of a Loved One (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Gentle Help for People in Pain (and those who care for them)	I have been a big fan of the Chicken Soup for the Soul books since the first book in the series was published. Overall I have found the books to be both uplifting and helpful, and now that the books are published for specific audiences, I have found the books to be jammed packed with great stories. Many of the books do lift the human spirit and are quite useful to people in ministry, teachers, and other people in human service professions. I believe that this volume will be especially helpful to people who have to work with people who have experienced a loss or friends who are trying to comfort someone in pain. Judging from another reviewer, people experiencing loss have also found comfort with the stories in the book.<br />I have not read the stories in this book while grieving the loss of a loved one. I have read the stories at moments when I have had to help grieving people. I have found that the stories give me a perspective that helps me reach out to those who are experiencing a loss. This is not a book that contains the \\"right thing to say.\\" More often than not, presence speaks louder than words, and the stories can help us be present to people who are experiencing a loss.	2003-08-23
US	34271677	R37OFZ8EVKQLJX	0829413669	755087046	Inner Compass: An Invitation to Ignatian Spirituality	Books	5	55	58	N	Y	What Does God Want of Me?	Ignatian Spirituality is appealing to many people because it enables a person to see God in the ordinariness of life, believes that God communicates with us in our hearts through prayer, particularly reflections of scripture, and by looking at our lives and reflecting on scripture, we can discern God's will in our lives. There are many wonderful Jesuit authors who make articulate the spirituality of the Jesuits and the order's founder, St. Ignatius of Loyola, namely William Barry, David Lonsdale, and Anthony DeMello. Now a non-Jesuit can be added to this list, Margaret Silf, author of Inner Compass. Though the book is supposed to be an invitation to Ignatian Spirituality, and it does review the basic principles of Ignatian spirituality, it is told through the voice of a lay woman, who also happens to be a Catholic convert. I believe that this is the book's chief strength because Ms. Silf is able to share her experiences so well which makes the invitation something that is open to all.<br />The book is divided into fifteen easy to read chapters which are subdivided for individual reflection if it is desired. Each chapter also contains helpful prayer exercises that can be used at the time of reading or as prayer helps at a later date.<br />I have noticed that she also the author of two other books, which if they are the quality of this book, will be a pleasure to read.	2003-08-18
US	34271677	RPKDEMCAG5XJK	1573228575	621480145	The Forest for the Trees: An Editor's Advice to Writers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Read First, Then Get Busy and Write!	A few months ago I was buying a few writing magazines. The clerk politely asked me if I wanted to be a writer, I answered no, the magazines were a gift. I was embarrassed to admit that yes, I would love to write a book, even though it might never happen. What was I trying to hide? I was in a bookstore. As a former clerk in a bookstore, I know that many bookstore employees are wannabe writers. Perhaps I would have found a soul mate in the person behind the counter. Fortunately I did, in Betsy Lerner, when she mentions how many would be writers keep their dreams private. Perhaps this is why I enjoyed this book so much.  Lerners book, The Forrest for the Trees, gives a description of both the writing process as well as publishing. She sees writing as a noble endeavor, and dreams of writing as valid. After reading her book, anyone would be encouraged to write the great American novel. She uses anecdotes and examples from literatures greatest authors as well as some not so greats, and has plenty of examples from authors she has worked with as an editor.<br />Writing students would benefit from a book such as this, but it really is not for aspiring writers alone. Teachers could benefit from her concrete advise and encouragement as they search for ways to encourage students. As a matter of fact I fondly recalled two of my English teachers as I read this book and wished I had read it while I taught. It is also encouraging for people who have to write as part of their job, but may never actually write a book. She states in her book in many different ways that readers and writers (those published and not) share a bond through love of language, and since many readers will love this book, she more than proves her point.	2003-08-09
US	34271677	R2FRCMVONAIZIQ	0375507493	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	4	5	5	N	N	How To Change Gears	I purchased this book because I was intrigued by the title and believe that this is a question many people ask all the time, even if a person is happy with life at a particular moment. I think we all wonder what is out there and we all want this \\"more.\\" For people who are in a job in which they hate, which may be a great job but it is not the right job, this question is critical. Author Po Bronson faced this same question. He was originally a business person, but inside was a writer yearning to be free. He had to ask himself difficult questions and seek the answers that best suited his life. As he reflected upon the steps he took from becoming a business person to writer, he believed that other people who made changes in their own lives probably asked the same questions. He researched out many people and the results are what this book is all about as it answers the question passed by the author, \\"What Should I Do With My Life?\\"<br />The book's greatest strength is the author. He is a gifted writer and when the reader encounters the many people he interviews, it is more like listening to a person talk than reading a text. He is a person who not only listens, but knows the questions to ask, when to interject, and when to remain quiet. The easy to read chapters flow quite well, and give the reader much to think about afterward. He uses different people who are at different stages in life, and the author seems to respect most of the people he includes. He is hardly sentimental, and this book is not gushy. It is real and for most of the people included, there is still a great deal of unfinished business in their lives.<br />For me, the book had two weaknesses, but I am willing to bet that for many readers, these would be strengths. First, I believe the book lacked diversity. It seemed as if most of the people interviewed, or at least included in the book were white males with a smattering of white females. Most were in their thirties or early forties, and most seemed to be somewhat privileged, or at least had opportunities open to them. This is not a book to find too many Horatio Alger tales. While many of these people do make radical life changes, they also seem to have a plan they can fall back on, based upon the advantages they have had in life. The author alludes to this very fact at one point in the book, but does not change the focus. Perhaps this is because he knows his focus audience rather well. Another weakness is that the book focuses almost solely on jobs and changing one's job in order to be happy. Very little attention is given to other factors that give life meaning such as family, faith, or enjoyment that enriches life. While the author does not downplay the importance of these things in life, it is clear he wants to show that having a lousy job that has to be endured in order to enjoy other aspects in life is a copout, even though many people remain at jobs they do not care for because other aspects of their lives are in order.  Bronson seem to be arguing that since people today often times have the opportunity to take advantage of opportunities previous generations lacked, and that many people today have had extended periods of youth, it is quite possible that people in the future will not be trying to reclaim a lost youth as many did in the generation that preceded the late baby boomers/early generation X. Though I find the lack of diversity and over focus on work as weaknesses, the author presents that material in such a way that in a few years, I may be look at this book differently and see him as prophetic.<br />People hoping to make changes in their life direction will undoubtedly find this book helpful. Those of us who are satisfied with our jobs will also find this book helpful because it does get a person thinking about what matters most in life, and Bronson encourages people to look within before looking outside of ourselves, always timely advice.be somewhat privileged, or at least had opportunities open to them. This is not a book to find too many Horatio Alger tales. While many of these people do make radical life changes, they also seem to have a plan they can fall back on, based upon the advantages they have had in life. The author alludes to this very fact at one point in the book, but does not change the focus. Perhaps this is because he knows his focus audience rather well. Another weakness is that the book focuses almost solely on jobs and changing one's job in order to be happy. Very little attention is given to other factors that give life meaning such as family, faith, or enjoyment that enriches life. While the author does not downplay the importance of these things in life, it is clear he wants to show that having a lousy job that has to be endured in order to enjoy other aspects in life is a copout, even though many people remain at jobs they do not care for because other aspects of their lives are in order.  Bronson seem to be arguing that since people today often times have the opportunity to take advantage of opportunities previous generations lacked, and that many people today have had extended periods of youth, it is quite possible that people in the future will not be trying to reclaim a lost youth as many did in the generation that preceded the late baby boomers/early generation X. Though I find the lack of diversity and over focus on work as weaknesses, the author presents that material in such a way that in a few years, I may be look at this book differently and see him as prophetic.<br />People hoping to make changes in their life direction will undoubtedly find this book helpful. Those of us who are satisfied with our jobs will also find this book helpful because it does get a person thinking about what matters most in life, and Bronson encourages people to look within before looking outside of ourselves, always timely advice.	2003-08-09
US	34271677	RWAANLZGTV65J	0446612545	540414996	The Beach House	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good, Light Summer Reading	This book is called The Beach House and the title is appropriate for two reasons. First, the action revolves around a murder at the vacation home of a wealthy family with a vacation home in the Hamptons, and second, the title is appropriate because it is the perfect book to read on a vacation, at a beach house. It made pleasurable reading while it rained on my recent vacation.<br />It is difficult to summarize the book without giving away the plot. If you like books where the underdog wins, the bad guys (and girls) are evil, and get their just reward, this book is for you. True, the plot is somewhat far fetched, but the book is not a Shakespearean drama or a Dickens novel, it is just meant to be fun and suspenseful, which it is on both counts. Due to its fast pace, it is a rather quick book to read and even if the reader has a clue as to how the book will be end, more than likely he/she will want to finish the book to see how everything gets resolved.<br />James Patterson can tell a story. The book has accuracy as well. The victim of the murder is killed due to his involvement in a rather sordid situation. The person then becomes a victim in the truest sense of the word, and I believe that Patterson develops this rather well.	2003-08-09
US	34271677	RAB3TBQU8YG42	3822865192	925982970	Penguin (Photobook)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	A Quick Phototrip To See The Penguins	Penguin is a book that contains photographs by Frans Lanting and text and commentary by Christine Eckstrom. Lanting is one of the world's best known nature photographers and a number of his photographs are instantly recognizable. The book contains exquisite photographs of the many varieties of penguins in both Antarctica and lower South America. There are large penguins, small penguins, beautiful penguins, ugly penguins (or at least penguins that only a mother could love), and chicks of quite a few species. Some of the photographs are portraits, others show action. Many of the photographs contained in this book are already rather familiar and popular, especially the cover photo of a mother and father penguin with a small penguin chick. We see in these photographs why Lanting is a master nature photographer and why so many of his photographs are featured in magazines such as National Geographic.<br />Everyone will enjoy this coffee table book. Nature lovers will enjoy the majesty of these great birds. Photographers will find inspiration. Certainly after viewing the photographs in this book one may want to travel to the remoter areas of the world to see these creatures, but for those of us who would find the trip to be too cold and cost prohibitive, this book will serve us just fine.	2003-07-03
US	34271677	R137JL7QYQ4E5U	0758203489	368420266	Leave Myself Behind (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	3	11	16	N	Y	Coming of Age in 2000	Leave Myself Behind is a book that has many good qualities. It is well written and is a fast paced read. It tells the story of two young men coming to terms with their sexuality. The story is told through the point of view of Noah, a young man who embraces his individuality. His father recently passed away and Noah and his mother move to a small New Hampshire college town to begin a new life. Noah meets J.D., a neighbor, and a quirky friendship begins that develops into first love. The plot has a number of twists and turns, as the characters face many tragic and difficult events. Discussing the many of the details of the book in a review would be a disservice to a potential reader.<br />Bart Yates is a gifted writer, and this novel is an impressive debut. The book's chief strength is the character of Noah. To the reader he is both complex and likeable, and the reader easily connects with this character. People in the novel are not quite sure what to make of Noah, which I believe makes him realistic. I am not certain if I believe that J.D. is developed well enough, but since the story is from the point of view of Noah, and the time span in the novel is relatively short (about four months), this give the novel a somewhat realistic flair. The flaws of the novel are the subplots, namely the events involving Noah and his mother Virginia and J.D. and his dysfunctional family. Too much is going on here and at times it is difficult to follow. Also, too much gets resolved in a short time.<br />One bit of advice for the potential buyer-Do not expect the book to be true to the jacket summary. After reading the summary, I ordered the book expecting to read a book similar to A Boy's Own Story (Edmund White) or The Catcher in the Rye (Salinger).Though the book is of a simialir genre, I am not sure whether this book falls in the same category as far as greatness, though Bart Yates may write such a book in the future. While it is true that Noah is as honest as the main characters in these two great works, I am not certain he will have the same crossover appeal and universal recognition that readers both gay and straight find with the Salinger and White works. If I had purchased the book without reading the jacket flap, my expectations would have been differentn these two great works, I am not certain he will have the same crossover appeal and universal recognition that readers both gay and straight find with the Salinger and White works. If I had purchased the book without reading the jacket flap, my expectations would have been different	2003-06-24
US	34271677	R382ZB1RXLHOB2	0878466576	401637831	Singular Vision, A: Works from the Melvin Blake and Frank Purnell Collection in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston	Books	4	5	5	N	N	MFA's Gift Creates a Stir in Boston	Melvin Blake and Frank Purnell were avid art collectors. At the time of their death, many of their art works were willed to Boston's Museum of Fine Art and have become part of the museum's permanent collection. To honor this gift, the museum had a special showing of their work and issued this book as a commentary and companion to the exhibit. Most of the pieces in the collection are twentieth century works. There is great variety in this collection. The collection has a number of nude works, but the people depicted in the paintings and sketches are hardly glamorous which adds a certain intrigue to them. Perhaps the most interesting work in the collection is Vanitas by Claudio Bravo. This work depicts a man from Tangier sleeping while his son blows bubbles. The man looks almost like a monk and the son a choir boy. A close second would be Antonio Lopez Garcia's Lavabo y Espejo which depicts a bathroom sink. The painting is both simple and striking.  This book exposes people to these relatively unknown works of modern art and the written commentary of the book is very helpful an introduction to the artists featured as well as a testimony to the generosity of the Blake and Purnell estate.	2003-06-21
US	34271677	R25T56WBGYJNBF	0817455027	786745872	Photographing Plants and Flowers	Books	4	1	3	N	N	How To Capture the Beauty of Flowers	Photographing Plants and Flowers by Paul Harcourt Davies belongs on the shelf of amateur and professional photographers for many reasons. It contains valuable information for photographing plants in both natural and manipulated settings. His photographs are very sharp and contain hints for photographing nearly every type of plant and flower imaginable. The stunning photographs alone make the book worth the purchase. He is able to create beautiful images from plants and flowers many people would miss. Though the book is primarily for photographers who still use film, it does contain some information on digital photography and using Photoshop.  The book is inspiring, and more than likely readers will want to put the book down as quickly as possible and shoot some flowers.	2003-06-21
US	34271677	R3NV2VHLLESSTX	0878466460	550718893	Impressions Of Light: The French Landscape From Corot To Monet	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Come Visit Beautiful French Landscapes	The book Impressions of Light by George Shackleford et al is a companion book to an art exhibit of works from Boston's Museum of Fine Art. The paintings are landscapes created by France's greatest nineteenth century painters and photographers. Most of the painters are Impressionists but others schools are represented as well. The book also contains sketches which were part of the exhibit. The sketches, as well as the written commentary which accompanies many of them, allows the reader to better understand the creative process of the painters. The factual information in the book is very extensive and helps the readers see more in the works than normally meets the eye. Perhaps what is most interesting about this book and the collection of paintings and photographs included it is the plethora of lesser known works by these great artists. Readers, especially those who have been fortunate to view the exhibit, will be transported to the settings of these great works and gain a deeper appreciation of these great artists and photographers.	2003-06-21
US	34271677	R1YY8V7YWEEJU8	0817455027	786745872	Photographing Plants and Flowers	Books	4	4	7	N	N	How To Capture the Beauty of Flowers	Photographing Plants and Flowers by Paul Harcourt Davies belongs on the shelf of amateur and professional photographers for many reasons. It contains valuable information for photographing plants in both natural and manipulated settings. His photographs are very sharp and contain hints for photographing nearly every type of plant and flower imaginable. The stunning photographs alone make the book worth the purchase. He is able to create beautiful images from plants and flowers many people would miss. Though the book is primarily for photographers who still use film, it does contain some information on digital photography and using Photoshop.  The book is inspiring, and more than likely readers will want to put the book down as quickly as possible and shoot some flowers.	2003-06-21
US	34271677	RS6DT7SNT8GK	1853903396	68410552	Sacred Moments: A Photographic Journey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Have You Ever Been Across the Sea to Ireland?	Sacred Moments is a book that is filled with very moving black and white photographs. Most of the photographs are images of people living daily life in the beautiful country that is Ireland, but the book is more than a people and places book. Each chapter divides the day into the monastic hours. For each hour there is a specific theme. For example, at one point of the day a convent is visited, at another a boarding school, another hour a local parish is featured, at another a popular religious shrine, and at another hour workers can be found, and so on. The pictures are meant to demonstrate the spirituality of the Irish people and how the rich faith traditions influence daily life. One can look at a photograph of a nun creating a handcraft, a school girl, a young priest, a worker, or any pother picture and see certain simplicity in the way of life, but also a deep and complex picture of a person living life and wrestling with faith. Each picture transports a person to a different place and can have such a hold on a person that it almost grabs a person. The book works not only because of Ms. O'Sullivan's skills as a photographer, but also a deep and lively faith.	2003-06-20
US	34271677	R21GU7GJ0VNQTD	1853903396	68410552	Sacred Moments: A Photographic Journey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Have You Ever Been Across the Sea to Ireland?	Sacred Moments is a book that is filled with very moving black and white photographs. Most of the photographs are images of people living daily life in the beautiful country that is Ireland, but the book is more than a people and places book. Each chapter divides the day into the monastic hours. For each hour there is a specific theme. For example, at one point of the day a convent is visited, at another a boarding school, another hour a local parish is featured, at another a popular religious shrine, and at another hour workers can be found, and so on. The pictures are meant to demonstrate the spirituality of the Irish people and how the rich faith traditions influence daily life. One can look at a photograph of a nun creating a handcraft, a school girl, a young priest, a worker, or any pother picture and see certain simplicity in the way of life, but also a deep and complex picture of a person living life and wrestling with faith. Each picture transports a person to a different place and can have such a hold on a person that it almost grabs a person. The book works not only because of Ms. O'Sullivan's skills as a photographer, but also a deep and lively faith.	2003-06-20
US	34271677	R3283POX51ZYR8	0764800906	279021937	How Can I Find God?: The Famous and the Not-So-Famous Consider the Quintessential Question	Books	5	41	43	N	N	God is looking for you	Believing in God and growing in faith are not once in a lifetime activities. Rather, belief in God and faith are something that grow and change over time. James Martin, editor of How Can I Find God? offers the reader many opportunities to reflect on who God is and how God can be found in life. Most of the people included in the book are from the Judeo Christian tradition, and most are Roman Catholic, which is logical since the publisher is a Catholic publishing house. Some of the people included are theologians, but others are writers, activists, political leaders, parish priests, and simply ordinary people--all trying to find God in life. Each entry gives the reader the sense that finding God is both a journey and a task, and no entry claims to have the correct answer. Readers can get a sense that as we search for God, we are not alone. Others have the same questions and concerns as we do. For this reason the stories are very helpful.<br />The book is a great selection for a religious reading group. People who are in a preaching or teaching ministry will also find the book helpful. This book would probably not be helpful for people trying to prove God's existence, but it is very helpful to show that even if we do not always feel God's presence, God is in fact real and very much at work in our world.	2003-06-19
US	34271677	R3MV8S5TTZMV5A	0874869803	383048289	Cries from the Heart: Stories of Struggle and Hope	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hope for those who struggle	Cries from the Heart was my first introduction to the writings of Johann Christoph Arnold. Arnold has a deep faith, which probably comes somewhat naturally to him. His father was in ministry and his grandfather began a Christian community that stood up to the Nazi regime and had to flee Germany. By training, Arnold is a pastoral counselor, but in truth he is a more than simply a therapist, he is also a believer. He shares both his ministry and faith in this wonderful book. Arnold talks about the reality of pain in our world and offers stories of people who have had to cope in the midst of great tragedy and loss. His book also offers examples of people who suffer with everyday losses and tragedy. Arnold offers hope to people whose lives have been touched by pain, suffering, and hardship, but the hope he offers is not a feel good sort of hope but the assurance that in even life's most tragic and difficult times, people can live with hope.Arnold's suggestions are both practical and helpful and can easily lead a person to prayer and reflection.<br />I began to read this book early in 2002, when the priest sex abuse scandal was first rearing its ugly head in Boston. This was a time when many people of faith had more questions than answers. Even those who are not survivors of child sexual abuse felt hurt and betrayed by all that has happened. While this book did not give answers to the crisis, it did highlight the role of faith and belief when facing life's challenges which I found to be very helpful.	2003-06-19
US	34271677	R3SJ3SNENOZE7U	1573227218	290811427	Amazing Grace: A Vocabulary of Faith	Books	5	11	12	N	N	I Know That Word, But What Does It Mean?	Certain words that are commonly used in religious talk, particularly words which express faith, can be very rich in meaning. For people outside of the faith, the use of such words can make a person feel confused or excluded. Perhaps this is why Kathleen Norris' Amazing Grace, the follow up to The Cloister Walk is so helpful. Norris defines words that are commonly used in faith, words such as salvation, grace, and Church. She also tackles less known words such as Lectio Divina and asceticism as well as words that can be controversial such as unchurched, orthodoxy, \\"organized religion\\" and heresy. Her definitions are not Webster like, nor do they reflect the opinion of an organized Church per se, but are based on reflection and an attempt to incorporate these words into her own spiritual life. She also includes a few essays which offer interesting perspectives on faith. Like Cloister Walk, this book is filled with personal anecdotes a swell as reflections upon people who have entered Norris' life and have either knowingly, or unknowingly, touched her spiritually. The book flows and is an easy read, and can be read in a few sittings or reflectively. It is also a book that favorite sections can be read again and again, which seems to be a strength of Ms. Norris' books. The depth of Norris' spiritual insights is also apparent as readers of Dakota and Cloister Walk will recognize. In many ways I saw Amazing Grace as a work in which Ms. Norris is confident in her own spiritual expertise, and shows maturity in her relationship with God which should be a goal for all believers.	2003-06-18
US	34271677	R2USN3HIWTK0NJ	0285635506	295202630	Why Does My Rabbit . . . ? (Pet Care)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Help! My rabbit is Driving Me Crazy!	Rabbits can be irresistible. It is not uncommon for people to visit a pet store or go to a county fair and come home with a rabbit. How much trouble can such a cute critter be? Plenty! Rabbits are curious creatures that seem to get themselves in trouble all of the time. Since rabbits are \\"prey\\" rather than predators, they act quite differently from dogs and cats, which often requires a different approach to care. Rabbits also have very distinct personalities. The personality of a rabbit needs to be taken into consideration when owning a rabbit. With know legible advice, rabbits can be fantastic pets. Books such as Why Does My Rabbit...?  can be indispensable in caring and loving a pet rabbit.<br />The book is divided into three parts. The first part deals with care of the rabbit, the second part discusses scientific information about the rabbit. The third portion of the book is probably most helpful. It is an alphabetical listing of just about any imaginable aspect of caring for a pet rabbit. The book is enjoyable to read because the author is not only an expert on animals as pets, she is also a rabbit lover. This book will be very helpful for people considering a rabbit as a pet and a true gift for those who have acquired a rabbit, have fallen in love with it, but don't know what to do with this adorable little rascal that seems to find mischief in every possible place.	2003-06-12
US	34271677	R20CANQUK0XN5T	1573225843	63745408	The Cloister Walk	Books	5	66	66	N	N	Take Notice Spiritual Journeyers	For many people, Kathleen Norris' story is somewhat familiar. She was raised in a faith tradition as a child, abandoned her faith, or at least put her faith on hold, then rediscovers her faith as an adult. Norris' experience is hardly typical, but it is definitely not \\"the same old story\\" with a different person telling it. Norris rediscovers faith accidentally, but it is not the Protestant faith of her youth. She is now a Protestant whose faith is colored by Roman Catholicism, particularly the Benedictine monastic tradition in Catholicism.<br />Norris is a writer whose primary genre has been poetry. In 1991, she spent a year at a Benedictine monastery in Minnesota and entered into the life of this monastic community. From time to time she also traveled to her home and to various parts of the country for conferences or speaking engagements.  The book is taken from reflections of that experience. In the book, she is connected to her life outside the monastery while at the monastery and while away from the monastery, she still seems to be very present to the life of the monastery. The life in the monastery has a certain pattern to it, based on the Rule of St. Benedict. The year follows a calendar, but it is the calendar of the Roman Martyrology which lists the days that various saints and religious feasts are remembered. The Liturgy of the Hours, chanted by the monks is essential to the life of the monastery as is time for personal prayer and reflection.  As both an insider (as a person connected to the monastery) and an outsider (a Protestant woman in an all male Catholic community), Norris is able to make keen insights into the life of the monastery with a unique perspective.<br />This is a book that should be read from cover to cover when the book is read for the first time. Since the book begins in September and concludes in August of the following year, reading the whole book rather than excerpts is essential to see Norris' growth in her understanding of monastic life as well as her own spiritual growth. After reading the book a first time, most readers will inevitably go back to favorite passages. I often reread portions in the book about the liturgical seasons such as Advent and Easter. I also enjoy rereading her understanding of \\"lectio divina\\" a prayerful method of reading scripture that allows the words to speak to a person's heart. I believe that as a poet, she is able to understand the richness of scripture both from a literary point of view and as a believer. Her experiences back home in South Dakota and her activities in her own faith community are also great excerpts in the book.<br />Part of my love for the books is due to the fact it can be read and shared with so many people. More often than not, religious books speak only to a person who shares the same religious mindset. I have found myself recommending the book to lifelong Catholics as an affirmation of the faith. I love the fact that this Protestant woman has a better understanding and appreciation for many Catholic things than most Catholics do. I have likewise recommended the book to people who have been hurt by organized religion in general, and the Catholic Church in particular. Norris is able to see God at work in lives that she terms \\"messy\\" and flaws in the saints. Everyone can find him/herself in Norris' book.  Most people I know have read this book slowly in conjunction with prayer. This is probably the best way to approach the book. This is also a book for people on a spiritual quest, but not a book for people who want an easy spirituality. Norris' profound insights are due to struggling with faith and belief and how faith and belief are lived in life. If living a life of faith can be a challenge, The Cloister Walk is the kind of encouragement needed as Norris shares her journey and we live our own journey.life as well as her own spiritual growth. After reading the book a first time, most readers will inevitably go back to favorite passages. I often reread portions in the book about the liturgical seasons such as Advent and Easter. I also enjoy rereading her understanding of \\"lectio divina\\" a prayerful method of reading scripture that allows the words to speak to a person's heart. I believe that as a poet, she is able to understand the richness of scripture both from a literary point of view and as a believer. Her experiences back home in South Dakota and her activities in her own faith community are also great excerpts in the book.<br />Part of my love for the books is due to the fact it can be read and shared with so many people. More often than not, religious books speak only to a person who shares the same religious mindset. I have found myself recommending the book to lifelong Catholics as an affirmation of the faith. I love the fact that this Protestant woman has a better understanding and appreciation for many Catholic things than most Catholics do. I have likewise recommended the book to people who have been hurt by organized religion in general, and the Catholic Church in particular. Norris is able to see God at work in lives that she terms \\"messy\\" and flaws in the saints. Everyone can find him/herself in Norris' book.  Most people I know have read this book slowly in conjunction with prayer. This is probably the best way to approach the book. This is also a book for people on a spiritual quest, but not a book for people who want an easy spirituality. Norris' profound insights are due to struggling with faith and belief and how faith and belief are lived in life. If living a life of faith can be a challenge, The Cloister Walk is the kind of encouragement needed as Norris shares her journey and we live our own journey.	2003-06-12
US	34271677	RDZ9LVMWLBUP2	1555973671	86140916	Avoidance: A Novel	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Provocative and Disturbing but Worthwhile	Since Michael Lowenthal's first book The Same Embrace was enjoyable, I assumed the same would be true for Avoidance. Warning: Fans of The Same Embrace will not find a similar work in Avoidance. People who saw great promise in the writing of The Same Embrace will see this promise being taken one step further in Avoidance. Lowenthal is a writer who challenges and respects his readers and allows the reader to draw conclusions without being judgmental.<br />I thought it would be a typical coming out/coming of age story. The book is anything but typical. It tells the story of Jeremy Stull, an adult who still relives the memories of summer camp-the same summer camp he attended as a child and now is a staff member as an adult. Jeremy seems to be struggling in life. Though the reader can assume that he is gay, he has had relationships with some women and a man, but the encounters are rare so he is probably best categorized as questioning. His life is challenged when he becomes infatuated with a young, troubled boy at the camp. He deeply wants to have an intimate relationship with the young man, and is jealous of the director who seems to also be interested in the boy. He has to put his feelings on hold when he learns that the camp director, a victim of sexual abuse himself, abuses the boy. Jeremy realizes just how close he came to actually committing the same crime.<br />The plot of the story is challenging to the reader. Homophobic people could see it as proof that gay men are attracted to young boys, but a careful reader would not come to such a conclusion. The book really deals with the complications that can arise when healthy boundaries are crossed and how at times, the consequences can be devastating for all people involved.<br />Lowenthal makes his readers think and challenge preconceived ideas regarding sexuality and attraction. His book can also be a warning about how we form relationships and what can happen when relationships go awry. Though not a major theme in the book, we also see what a gift the trust of a child can be, even if the child is not the easiest child to like, and the consequences of what happens when trust is destroyed.the book, we also see what a gift the trust of a child can be, even if the child is not the easiest child to like, and the consequences of what happens when trust is destroyed.	2003-06-06
US	34271677	R1TBCMTG6593Y5	0609609076	749778108	Land's End: A Walk in Provincetown (Crown Journeys)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Old and New Cape Cod	I have never been a lover of P-town. As a child, my family made a yearly visit to climb the Pilgrim Monument, but as I got older, the long drive from our Harwich vacation home (also on Cape Cod) home made climbing the monument less appealing. Every now and then, I did visit the place, but more often than not, I found it crowded and congested, and always had trouble finding a parking space. The art galleries, a small book store, a store that sells all sorts of odds and ends, and of course the people made a visit to the town worthwhile, but I never realized what all the hype was about until I read this book. Lands End gave me an appreciation for the town and the people, and the history, and when I recently visited the town, I had a new appreciation for this interesting and varied community, largely due to Cunningham's ability to be a \\"tour guide.\\"<br />Cunningham's book is almost a guided tour, not by a tour director who is just doing a routine job, but one who actually loves the place being visited. As he takes readers on a tour of the sights and sounds of the town, we see a place where he grew both as a person and as a writer. Though the work is factual, it flows more like a book of prose than a piece of journalism. Cunningham's awe of the rugged beauty of this small town on the Atlantic coast is easy to detect. He also seems to feel as if he is a kindred spirit to the artists and writers who inhabit this town, known both on and off season as an art and writing colony. His book treats the locals with respect. Provincetown has become rather well known as a \\"gay Mecca.\\" Cunningham certainly makes mention of the many aspects of this town that are part of a gay culture, but Cunningham writes in such a way that the entire Provincetown community-locals, gays and straights, artists, writers, business people, and tourists, all make Provincetown the beautiful, somewhat quirky, but interestingly cohesive community it is today.<br />People who love Cape Cod will enjoy this book. Those who have visited the town will have a greater appreciation of the community after reading this book. Tourists will find the book a nice memory of a unique town. Provincetown visitors who are less than fans may find a new appreciation for the town and will once again struggle with the transportation woes of the town.k. Those who have visited the town will have a greater appreciation of the community after reading this book. Tourists will find the book a nice memory of a unique town. Provincetown visitors who are less than fans may find a new appreciation for the town and will once again struggle with the transportation woes of the town.	2003-06-05
US	34271677	R13MHA9Q9F9II	0375505296	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Cambridge Based Author Has Great Debut Novel	In late winter, the name Matthew Pearl started to become somewhat well known in the Boston area. He was a Harvard graduate and studied law at Yale, impressive credentials to say the least. He was also fascinated with the writings of the Italian poet Dante. His enthusiasm for Dante was almost contagious, and before long, his first book The Dante Club was a bestseller in Boston and around the country. Since the author studied law, it can be assumed that he at least planned on practicing law. This book demonstrates both why he should and should not practice law. Pearls ability to get into the criminal mind of his murderer would make him a either a successful defense attorney or a feared prosecutor. The murders in the book are rather gruesome, and are based on people damned to Hell in Dantes poem The Inferno. Pearl is able to make the murders logical in the mind of the murderer, but baffling to the unlikely investigators on the casea biracial police officer whose ability to investigate is severely hampered by prejudice, and members of Bostons literary elite (and you thought Henry Wadsworth Longfellow was only a writer?). Pearl should not practice law because he should be at work researching and writing his next novel. Pearls writing style is complex, but very rich in detail. It is almost as if he labored over every sentence. The historical details alone make the book a interesting. Native Bostonians and those familiar with the city will enjoy the references to actual people and places and appreciate the way in which old Boston, with its strengths and flaws, comes to life.<br />Those looking for a quick and easy murder mystery to read at the beach this summer will probably be disappointed with this book. It is not a book that is read in one sitting or in a casual manner. It is a book to be savored. When the reader finishes the book, he/she does feel as if something has been accomplished, and may actually feel like a sleuth.  Readers will no doubt be impressed with the efforts of a gifted young writer who is certain to be a part of the literary scene for years to come.sed with the efforts of a gifted young writer who is certain to be a part of the literary scene for years to come.	2003-06-04
