US	34270585	R2I96UA04A13H6	0345463048	690816621	The Joiner King (Star Wars: Dark Nest, Book 1)	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Rare in Star Wars, not only intelligent but even mature	Determined to harness a forgotten realm of Star Wars unseen since quality was stuffed up a Hutt's backside, Del Rey and all, Denning Big Bangs fan(atic)s with a book that exiles superficiality and creates a mature story devoid of endless X-wing fights.  <br /> <br />And while you're critical striking the horror of a book that requires 18 Constitution to handle the strain of 1 Intelligence to no avail, you prepare for the greatest threat to the indoctrinated junk you've junkied on for years: Respect, for mature prose and gradual intrigue, a finale you can't see ahead.  <br /> <br />The sheer audacity of surprising a hostile Pell back to you sent Sauron's Mouth grinning; the betrayal expecting their holy movie characters as ever bland popping off without Aragorn input. Gone with Slitheen wind, your precious Force crap is finally expanded beyond its narrow and rigid RPG view. Wizards battle strong and creatively, without the comical Matrix Shatterpoint prose. Whereas two Jedi dumbed down in Survivor's Quest take 12 pages for a droid, Thul makes a single gesture for two.  <br /> <br />Storyline's not only intelligent, the intrigue's surprise revelation is something not seen since Cloak of Deception. The new Force view as proposed by Luceno provides flux and fun for Jedi morality. The light and dark within you now sees Jedi more aggressive in combat and arrogant, even hand lightning---all of which enhances characterisation. Using A Link to the Past from prequel events to Gannon a menace of today has them behaving on new ethical gangplanks. Whether that gangplank's above Gand-infested waters charges consequence to actions. As Skywalker discovers more of Haydon's exploits and what emotions changed the galaxy, he will be forced to reconsider his current mantra.  <br /> <br />Underscoring this is the Bug storyline, a subconsciousness of darker emotions. The subconsciousness within us all, like his new Force belief. For a nest is a family . . . and the dark nest of his father's heritage. It was blind love that produced the Hapan fleet irrelevant of repercussions, just as blind love undid Haydon.  <br /> <br />The new Force philosophy is the true Dark Nest of the trilogy, and a great new storyline at that.  <br /> <br />The Fog of War was pervading, a book that doesn't transparent its ending like a naked Wookiee and Balance Point. Like Gardens of the Moon, you learn by the chapter; you don't find out info ahead of the Skywalker/Solo groups from a Jaina scene, showing Denning's skill and consideration for readers. And just like it didn't take 3 whole cutscenes to land on Telos from Citadel Station, no scene was just there to lengthen the book.  <br /> <br />The intrigue's more nefarious than you think. Now, before you Ragnos your pants like some 21st Phantom incarnation, there's no law saying you need to be aware of your Joiner status, and we've seen plenty of others who don't, thus making Thul's last line to Leia on p434 quite subtle. Despite your neural denial it seems dangerously apparent just a brief contact with the Buggers' gestalt mind infects you. While Jacen's playing with his brain mapper every time kept his status deliberately vague, it should have triggered Ugnaught squeals that his crash site visit was in the affable company of a Bug. A scene before, he knew them not.  <br /> <br />Joiner King reads like a fresh breath straight out of Krennel's kennel of sycophants. If you seriously detested Cal Omas' bland, easy-going NJO persona you'll be in for a surprise. Denning Calrissians flavour back on the menu, and his vehement assault of insipid characterisation is prioritised. The character tension between the Jedi and haughty Hapan-Chiss naval power assures never a dull moment for even a Gundark senator. Cameos and Kartan were fun, who got dialogue and offpage action. Locations were equally varied: from a quick Coruscant peek to within the Ossus Academy.  <br /> <br />Action scenes never reveal a lead up to events and how they finish, and unlike SBS Solo and wife weren't ridiculously in every second battle. Sure, it was disappointing to yet another mindless X-wing fight, but they were won with brain over brawn, and focused-oriented to that character's predicament as Alema was sleazy. When have we ever seen a sleazy Jedi? A great surf from the ocean of sombre Jedi weaker than Chewie burps. Compare that to Mara's submission of Anor in TUF, and it's revolting. Not once did anything surprising happen in all those pages. She simply beat him into submission, that was that.  <br /> <br />Showing Denning's talent for saber duels, Skywalker's finale shames Shimrra's chamber for mature realism and credibility. Tactics and snap-improvisation against an unfair villain in hostile environment, utterly funtastic as the 9th Doctor says.  <br /> <br />Joiner King's mature style demands acknowledgement for the risk in unleashing a product that for once wasn't teen-locked and loaded. Denning's favourite word efflux cameos only 3 times to SBS's 30, pace wasn't rushed to finish by page 292 and snide humour to Allston's typical immaturity. Sebatyne's diminishment of her head was hilarious, even to her; Thul's expression to Solo's Bughugger comment at the end; Solo's expression, as your daughter throat-purrs with her lover like a bug.  <br /> <br />But like all actors, makeup can't hide performance paucity the way a `70s Dr Who episode shames. With his character refreshingly frontline for once, and Del Rey's anathema to Threepio instead of C-3PO sticks his name conspicuously out on the page LIKE THIS each time. Kr was a name less silly than Steven Erikson's Malazan cast. Tesar's saliva was unneeded after TOTJ's commendable performance, and Star Wars still has this fantasy for simplistic syllabled names, and first-naming villains.  <br /> <br />Was hive bugs really that clich? Count how many X-wings and Rebel crests are on your superficial books. Hornets or avians were better? With such outstanding characterisation, maturity and effort for realism, this is a giraffe neck above competitors. And with Traviss back on the horizon I think Troy's real siege is about to begin, as pulpfiction's banes gladiate to finger the One Ring . . .	2005-09-15
US	34270585	R1H5L3KUJRXT78	0553298054	99534255	Assault at Selonia (Star Wars: The Corellian Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Commendably better than the first	With enough slick to grease a Hutt uphill to the abbatoir, Assault at Selonia delivers the goods you've been waiting for.    Gone with the wind are the chapter-long conversations, slow pacing and stuttering Frozian from the previous book. New characters, new factions and some seriously good scenes start advancing the plot in ernast. Because it's becoming apparent who's really pulling the strings is now a game of guess who, and with the lives of five worlds and the entire sector on offer, the insurrectionists have the ability to target your sun---almost anywhere.    Solo's older cousin, thankfully shown on the neat cover front, has undertaken the biggest bluff in his dismal career, and that makes the critter bursting with quality. Not another beautiful villainess or strategic admiral or pompering warlord wannabe. What we have here is an everyday government administrator, hungering for the return of the harmonious Imperial system, seeing his chance to seize power in the galaxy's fattest fraud---a man who likes his drink, likes nonhumans even less, who's dancing events with what little he has.    And this makes Sal-Solo's character even better: an all-or-nothing risk on scant resources and time.    Skywalker is back in action, and shows it. He'll be even better in the next book. Uninjured as he was in Children of the Jedi, Planet of Twilight and New Rebellion, he's more talker than walker but it's a good change. And who better than wild card Calrissian, the poor fella we hardly see in books, considering he's a sacred movie character and all. Calrissian is shown as the thinker in the trilogy, needling the intrigues into wearable apparel while of course dealing with the bickering droids. Threepio provides the trilogy's best humour here, as he explains where he got his Bakuran info.    Characterisation couldn't be better. The Selonian Dracmus is fun and distinctive, and her partnership with Solo makes for some truly good performances. Solo himself seems to be written verywell, and even slightly differently to others, not for the worse.    Storyline wise, inexplicable technology has sealed off the Corellian system from communications and hypertravel. The New Republic's fleet assets are not in a current shape to send taskforces all over the Monopoly board, so why not borrow one from Bakura and send Skywalker as ambasador? It's a great full circle 14yrs ago when last he was there. It's a book of partnerships, actually; Skywalker and Calrissian, Organa Solo and Jade, Solo and Dracmus. Condensing and scattering the cast allows for deeper characterisation and individual skills to display.    Enter the Bakurans and the exceedingly dangerous Admiral Hortel Ossiliege . . . and by the pitious breath of Vader, quiver the Ssi-Ruuk should they come back. Four ships against the unknown might of what lies at Corellia, and for Ossiliege and his scene-ending liners, pity the rebels more.    Allen shows his writing prowess with all the subtlety of a Sithing shadow. He has a core cast of pre-teens overseen by their alien tutors on one leg, and in the other slap you have the familiar adult movie cast. And he actually manages to pull it off. This trilogy is readable by kids and every bit for mature adults, the way Simpsons does. Seriously, I Malak you not. Prose, verbose and structure is nothing fancy but it doesn't need to be here; and with all the travelling the trilogy was written during, a fine balancing act indeed.    Perhaps the downsides are the overly long chapters as the first book, and the speculatory conversations the characters engage in. Because Sal-Solo can't be the only mastermind, and whoever it is has absconded with most of the sector's naval ships. Which means someone, somewhere, has a fat fleet ready to spring.    The finale culminates in more discoveries and questions, a battle names the title, and a brief but poignant demonstration of the ticking clock for the New Republic.	2005-06-19
US	34270585	R1T0BW9Z6HEOJ7	0553574140	278272895	The New Rebellion (Star Wars)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The usual recycled material, but not written well enough	It had a specific style of writing, which perhaps is where the problem lay. One-line sentences are best left for emphasising something notable, and visually sets it apart on the page. With a vast number of one-line sentences here, this book was far fatter than it should be.     I just felt the characters were not in character. Solo came across as too sharp and edgey, which perhaps was necessary considering his locale. Lando was stale, just not at his best, while Luke and Leia were fine.     What really added fun to farce were the droids. At last: someone gave them some serious page time. The ending was utterly ludricious, of course: Artoo's jamming signal \\"just leaping out across interstellar space\\" and preventing the activation of two years' production of detonating droids. But they had adventures, they had character, and had a role. And their Fardreamer interaction makes it great to see a nobody can also help save the day, not a sacred movie name.    Unfortunately, there's only so much you can read \\"Artoo whistled\\" or \\"Artoo trilled\\" or \\"Artoo rasperried\\" page after page. How that got past editorial scrutiny . . .    The villians were ruined, of course, by showing scenes from their viewpoint. Brakiss was an immature weakling, some child trapped in a man's body. He was no scary villain at all, so why try to make him such? Kueller, it was a grievous mistake to show any pov from him. Sith to stars, he was more administrator than sinister. Nothing vicious about Nandreeson either, just your typical crime lord.    But the humour was good, I'll give the book that much. Wookiees look smaller when wet. Han felt himself starting to grin, but Chewie growled it away. Samples like that were worth a quick smile. The smuggler cast were okay.    Only way to make a martial confrontation more even is to disable Skywalker, yes. But having him outmatched in a fight, it does stretch the bounds of credulity. And since he was wounded in Children of the Jedi, partially disabled in Planetof Twilight, these plot devices to restrict his power are getting absurd. And with a no-confidence vote in Black Fleet, we see another here?    Comically, Cloak of Dception's backcover called New Reb a political thriller. The hell it was. Black Fleet was pure political thriller.    Why \\"Y-words\\" are so popular in sci fi I can't fanthom, which is why we had a lot of \\"Y\\" names here like Yanne and Yane and yuck all round. Saber fights were rare in those days. You got three entire duels in this book!     How can bombs really take out a planetary population, really? As though there are no detection units at all anywhere, as though most sentients are around droids all day long.    But it was the ending space engagement that had me laughing big time. I seriously haven't read any major space batle by a female author that can do one, and that's no jibe intended. On the other leg, few are the men who can really push the emotional range of a character the way a lady can. Ah well.     The classic one shot and the target explodes. Yeah right. 1200m Star Cruisers are more than a match for 900m Vicstars. Even if their crew complement were droids, the battle was only dire to make it dramatic for the reader. And since when does a New Republic naval officer have to say they think the fighters look like TIEs? Been that long since an Imperial fight, sonny?     The final battle was a joke, and Wedge commanding it only compounded the problem.    Good to see an author making attempts to show new and different aliens. Who wants to see an endless barrage of Rodians and Twi'leks every single damn book and comic? Though the 'Phibs were nothing but reptilian fire-breathing dragons.     The New Rebellion wasn't all that bad. It stands alone, had some good creativity and equally shoddy fare, and it's not a book written for younger ages like most SW books these days, so it has enough merit to warrant a leisure read.	2005-05-09
US	34270585	RU1T609KBOE5C	0553571745	336872074	Star Wars: The Crystal Star	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Too exotic and juvenile for Star Wars at that time	It's kid's book, aimed at kids, kid characters and all. How does that appeal to the older age audience? The stars of the show are not much more than toddlers. Mind you, toddlers that have an amazing grasp of science and thinking, but hey, it's a different galaxy out there, more advanced, not like this primative Earth where sliding doors are still relatively new.     It was a weird book, and back then, before moving planets and flying rocks generating miniture black holes, it just wasn't on. Who had ever heard of a star having an affect on the Force? And bloody how? Just because they're eating each other? Nowadays, we have many places where the Force is prevalent: Dathomir, Nam Chorios, Ossus, and a few others.     But was it that bad? A break from the next Imperial-New Rep battle. Something small scale, quiet.     It was never mentioned how Hethrir found all those Force potentials to later test them. A Force-battery saber was creative. The Worldcraft too. But how the hell does it look like? I wouldn't have minded knowing its shape and length; to give readers an idea, you know. At that time in publishing, we had never really seen Leia fly a ship, so it made you wonder \\"She can pilot!\\"     Luke was horrible, of course. So he can't think properly, big deal. Doesn't mean you turn him into a pumpkin. Solo was all right, and it introduced a past love interest, the first time in SW we'd seen that. Tigris supplied emotional drive, and the little Solo kidlings would have delighted all those readers of preadolescant age.    This book was a first, actually---the characters were creditless! All the time, you see them with limitless funds, resources, dollar dazzlers, but not here. They were borderline poor. How does Luke live, who pays him? It's a silly question, but is it? He gets a government pension?    The precursor to the Vong worldship, the worldcraft. What a massive amount of resources that would have been.     There were some interesting aliens, and for Sith's sake, original! Not endless Corellians, Rodians, Twi'leks. There was the multitentacled Indexter info broker; the ethereal Ghostling, which I think also featured in the hard to locate Anakin Skywalker Episode 1 pocket RPG adventure game book; that Enhanced Human with the odd name.     Waru actually wasn't a bad concept. It's a big galaxy out there, remember. Why not? What ruined him was that transdimensional stunt at the end. But he was a perfectly feasible character.     Was Ferrero mentioned by Isolder in COPL, when stargazing with Djo? But as a Jedi healer it's a pity Rillao hasn't been seen more, although did Luceno have her in that huge Jedi list at the end of TUF?    In short, you're going to deride Crystal Star because it didn't have yet another 1000th X-wing fight, or the worried whether the Falcon would hyperjump this time or not. Yes, it was exotic and stiffly written. But there are few books out there that bother to show creativity, thinking movie themes and movie are all fans want and should gobble.	2005-05-09
US	34270585	R37QFLVUP2AF15	0345459180	639235887	Survivor's Quest (Star Wars)	Books	2	7	26	N	N	Sensational superficial depth	Proving once again why Del Rey is winning the war for pulp fiction litter, Survivor's Quest is a stunning performance of outstanding mediocrity. <br /> <br />Commencing with the clich Impstar opening for no reason other than to mimic decades-old movies, did seeing Karrde or Terrik's only appearance splash nostalgia on your face? <br /> <br />Matters degrade further with yet another hundredth cantina scene, showcasing nothing more than Mara's personality and combat skills we already know. Mature readers starved for proper stories will ask what point it was. Seasoned readers will spot the pattern of the droideka; events in the beginning full circle back at the end. Dark Tide did this too. Predictable. It therefore came as no surprise the droideka came back in the end. <br /> <br />By midbook you're realising two frogs in the ointment: pure boredom, and not interesting. 2/3rds is actionless chapter after another, heavily conjectural and conversational. You persevere because money was spent, and Exchange work is a one-way deal, hoping the goods pay before Davik Kang comes collecting. <br /> <br />But it just doesn't, as Sauron's Mouth would accent better. Suddenly you have a third left, and intrigue is forgotten in a sudden blaze of silly action scenes as Zahn suddenly unleashes the feeble wizards on aliens whose written format perfectly matches the Conquerors' trilogy Mrachani. <br /> <br />Now, this works two ways. Ugnaught cubs who delight in Jedi sabering the pizza without that irritating pacifist philosophy, dig in boys. The Skywalkers ram-bam brute over brawn. On a Worrt's other leg, they're gunning for you but you need some moralist reflection if violence returned is the only way. Those frustrated with all the Clone War / NJO dithering philosophy, this is a rare exception. <br /> <br />Oh, Zahn tries to intrigue, but after the action fades you never get the explanations owed. Only why the Chiss withheld the feeble wizards' Force performance, and what Chak and the boys were doing with that piece of equipment, and if those revelations dazzled you then I'm Revan's mum. <br /> <br />What exactly were you expecting Outbound Flight was, magical fantasyland of exotic maiden-infested castles? It's a spaceship. They have limited rooms and passageways. Seeing Dreadnought corridors and cargo bays was awesome, wasn't it? <br /> <br />You saw no Outbound habitation levels, or the colonists' harsh environment they had to adapt to. What you saw was ship corridors, fellas, yay! <br /> <br />Known for enticing excitement out of simple events (Thrawn/Conquerors/Icarus Hunt),  Zahn failed to excite at all. In the first half, when excitement was sparser than genuine Dalek fear, you have these ridiculous action \\"moments\\" he tries to make exciting. The rush of a cable swinging at Luke, Mara monkey-climbing. Pah, might as well kiss Gregor Clegane.  <br /> <br />How does seeing an Imperial dominion invoke a sudden rush of career options? You know Mara won't side with the Empire of the Hand. Del Rey knows it. Humphrey B bear knows it, but he's mum on the subject. Her sudden Nostalgic Attack that was barely touched on is as empty of sincerity as Errant Venture's \\"blushing.\\" <br /> <br />Del Rey's strict formatting demands Luke formally address Threepio as C-3PO each time. Empire of the Hand is a bit long to say each time. If I didn't want a serious read, I'd read Terry Brooks' blatant LOTR plagiarism. Standard Zahnism prose means there's fixed format to speak, think, reflect, and express emotions. It's rigid. <br /> <br />Zahn's subtle anti-female sentiments all but screamed in this book. 3 times Mara is told \\"Silence, female!\\" A third, Luke is asked if his female always does his fighting for him. And don't tell me it's the alien's way of talking. Who types the books? The Conquerors' trilogy was rife with this bias. Even his special stormtrooper unit has a male alien, instead of a female. <br /> <br />Since when are Impy stormtrooper composite armour near-blaster-proof? Why did Chak Fel exhibit little page charisma, and is Bullyak the new sow on the block? <br /> <br />You have 4 key parties: Jedi, Imps, Bluey and Geroon. You know the Jedi aren't villains; the Chiss cheeks were written too well, the Chak chaps too bland. Which leaves the hapless Geroons. If the shoulder shot scene didn't give it away, you could see this group just HAPPENED to join the ride, with NO major role in the expedition. <br /> <br />Experienced Zahn readers (Icarus Hunt) will pick up his trick of revealing the truth amidst endless pages of tedious speculation and conjecture. Was it nostalgic to see Luke briefly flying a civilian Delta-12? It could've been a Holden Commodore sedan for all you cared. Whether Car'das's sole mention gets back-developed in the Outbound Flight book, it was boasting with irrelevance here. Feeble Jedi fighting made the wolvkils overrated. <br /> <br />Ragnos' holy breath, how could you say clawcraft, when that was Jaina's slang for it in Ruin, a fighter they only see 3yrs later? A chance to show one \\"serious threat\\" from the Unknown Regions is wasted on the Vagaarians, whose scheming is offset by their Medieval weaponry. This is a bridge book suddenly filled with Trade Federation references and battle droids. <br /> <br />His Blueness Thrawn III's possibly being alive is fouled by two gastronomic winds: it's only Mara's speculation; and her opinion it was all a \\"masterplan.\\" Gathering those parties wasn't a work of geinus in any Clawdite shape, and what forthcoming book will we see this potential Thrawn? <br /> <br />It took two fully armed \\"Jedi\\" a full dozen pages to eliminate a single droideka, for the sake of showing drama, not to kill it too quickly. <br /> <br />This was Survivor's Quest. A generic bridge book of wasted potential, transparent intrigue and feeble emotional characterisation.	2005-04-18
US	34270585	R2PX96R7XLZVIC	0451459628	329223957	Son of Avonar (Bridge of D'Arnath)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A solid 1st personer from a promising author	Carol Berg offers her own garden in Son of Avonar, not the usual drones of contemporary past and present. It stands out enough from other fantasy novels to be distinctive.    You read a few 1st person narratives you've read them all. The protagonist Serianna, like all outcast, emotionally traumatised females, will of course have that tough-chick-persona. Whether through deliberate attempt or serendipity, Berg has avoided this too much by the interactions her companions impact on her changing emotional spectrum, and how she must adjust to that.    Setting wise, it's a form of medieval heavily flavoured with Renaissance society. The Leirean king wars offpage with neighbouring independents for conquest, while the middle class nobles indulge in cosy cavorting of invulnerable ideological discourse---a bubble that'll pop in time. Magic is resented and persecuted in Leire, harkening back to a time when its practioners dominated the kingdom with it. A case of lets control everyone to better society that went wrong through self-corruption. The sorcerers were overthrown, and hunted since for revenge.    Only they actually descend from another world and placed here for reasons you can find out yourself, scattered, forlorn, and abandoned from both homes. Like the vile Spanish Inquisition and the 1492 expulsion that forced select citizenry to adopt covert identities.    Language is rich with depth and variation. The fight/action scenes are scarce, but mature readers will delight in Berg's mature prose and even occasional witty quips thrown in, even if her companions don't really show much depth and dimensions. It's rare to have such a solid worded book these days, and enjoy it for its rarity.    Much of the book alternates between present time and four years of flashbacks ten years ago. It's not confusing and spaced out with enough pacing that you are learning as you go. It's during this time you see Seri's close circle of friends swapping liberal ideas and arguing over all sorts of free-thinking ideology. Something you don't actually see in fantasy books, so it's fresh and inventive. Seri meets and mates her hubby Karon, whose intoxicating need to magically heal the needy readers anxiously await and dread to see exposed, as we already know from the present-time state of affairs. Once it's done and Seri's background to current events completed, the flashbacks end and you start moving quickly.    The quick trip she embarks on to solve her amnesiac's identity and rid herself of that quixotic annoyance starts a game of hide and seek with wizard hunters and dark wizards themselves. Her accompanying companions have their own loyalty, and it's great to see an author who tries to surprise you in the end---if canny readers won't pick up the un/subtle cues along the way. The book goes for 6 weeks, so the pace is reasonable; 3 months with epilogue matters.    The amnesiac's identity woud have been a surprise if not blatantly revealed in the sequel's backcover, the fool publishers! And the dozens of typos wonders where those editors were.    The finale confrontation came off as vague, but you can decide for yourself rather than spoil it here. What sets this damn book apart are that the characters Seri has spiderwebbed herself with don't reveal their cards. They're emotionally motivated for different reasons, but believe they're acting for the right reasons, or nefariously induced for others'. What this means is that with Serianna's viewpoint all book long and nobody else's, anyone's true heart is up for grabs until they show it.    And it's this way of writing, mis/learning as you go, that makes Son of Avonar a worthwhile read in a sea of fantasy drones and blatant ripoffing of each other.	2005-03-27
US	34270585	R1NSWESJEM9W75	1569713553	806212655	Star Wars: Crimson Empire, Volume 1	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Slick and enjoyable	Crimson Empire brings the Imperial Royal Guard to life against a backdrop of backstabbing and New Republic cell operatives on a sleepy backwater.    Slick art and smoother colouring are 3D enough to make it visually good. Art quality and colour are absolutely essential for comics, being the visual material that they are, and should reflect such. Certain scenes began with a faraway shot of the sky or space that looked briefly photorealistic, giving it a TV series sort of feel.    Outstanding issue covers, all TPB collected. TOTJ's photorealism. Imagine a comic with every page like that!    Mirith Sinn is fem fatale clich all the way, the typical red-haired, emerald eyer with strong amazonic temperament, like every flame head of fantasy books who seem to be \\"gifted\\" and fiery in some way. Fortunately, her facial expression and hair movement provided character to her. Jax had a cool appearance, but so what if his Forceness was weak? Ball hovering and gun-grabbing isn't a crime. Has legendary Jedi \\"Masters\\" exhibited better? While Massimo will remind you of sonic-booming Guile, Antilles' new face is reminiscent of the one he often had in select Rogue Squadron comics. Kennede and his Squall boys are emotionally charged, and the flashbacks weren't weak. Sinn's reptilian partner was too weakly drawn, but he was a good counterpoint to the comical Blimp.    Dialogue is nothing special. You get no fancy liners and, like Typical Mauls and Fetts, Kanos hardly talks. His facial semblance to Qel-Droma aside, his speech came across as just too stilted and stiff to be acceptable, while the Impy officers' continual flabbergastment can be ignored.    Few comics transpire in a city, offering a rare break from the ubiquitous jungle, arid and swamp worlds we seem to get, and endless Tatooine. The Dark Empire flashbacks were faithfully accurate, with a brooding Solo and haunting Skywalker only marred by that yammering irritant Rayf's inclusion.     Setting this apart from the drones ofits siblings are the ships and vehicles you don't see in other comics. You get Juggernaughts, TIE Crawlers, Chariots, Skiprays, Scimitar bombers, E-wings, B-wings, Sentinel shuttle and a cool Super Star Destroyer two-pager. And though I'm not familiar with Darktroopers, those black-painted stormies would have meaning to others.    The faults aren't lacking, most notable the disgusting disregard of full names, as though the artistry team has no confidence their readers will remember the small cast as it is. And while you try to ignore Kanos blaster bolt deflection off his flickstaff blades, the Imperial officers' annoying tendency to splutter and stammer gets repetitive. Kanos is skilled, yes, but hand gunning down a TIE whose viewport should be blaster proof that also collateral damages a ground tank? Sinn knowing the Falcon's famous pilot was pointlessly tacky, as was a (Star Wars 4) Kubaz spy; and how a few Rogue fighters took out 4 Impstar shields in a few passes is anyone's guess. And if Sinn was wearing red when talking with Kanos at one stage, how was she back to her violet apparel when the Imps attacked the base? She changed her wardrobe as their lives were at stake?    The finale is worth it. Kanos and Jax duel out for a good dozen pages, and doesn't disappoint. But the offhand sacrifice will ruin what is a commendable comic for readers. Sinn's final page is classic comical and out of a TV program.	2005-03-23
US	34270585	R3LWO3Q2PS53SE	0345463099	80649071	Yoda: Dark Rendezvous (Star Wars: Clone Wars)	Books	1	2	8	N	N	Absolute Rubbish	Determined to reign as star wars' worst published book, how this farce of fluff possibly got printed is nothing less than astonishing.    Gone are the mature books of the Bantam days in favour for the childish simplistic material Del Rey apparently doesn't mind submitted, so long as loyal fan(atic)s keep coffering the effulgent. And with Balance Point, Dark Journey and Rebirth already crowding a Hutt's backside, space fits just one more.    Masquerading as a mainstream book, Dark Rendezvous is a breezy romp that's yet another petty juvenile novel with simplistic writing style and structure, lacklustre prose and verbose, dawdling pace unequalled only by Remnant -- a young adult book written for teens called an adult book.    Yoda's small page time made his title prefix nothing more than a deceptive marketing lure to hook the maggots. His plain pov thoughts, the first in a novelisation, conspicuously contrasts to his idiosyncratic speech. This was a Scout book, the muppet was incidental.    Do you say you're 2 \\"standard\\" mins late for the bus? Of course not, so why are people speaking that way? Why aren't they also saying standard litres and standard weight?    Ventress was written with such stiff childlike stupidity it was comical. Her insufficient page time wasn't worth the bother of seeing her at all, her Dooku friction as tasteful as Bithburgers.    Not bothering to surprise and intrigue you, Stewart reveals the droid saboteur early. And fans who know Ventress know how often Jedi Masters live after duelling her, all you ever see of her.    Scout, Leem, Whirry, Whie, Ding -- simple names for a teen book. The haunting visage of an Arkanian, he called . . . Hanna Ding?    Left-siding the chapter number made it hard to see, and with just a dozen chapters of big font they want you to hyperspace to the finale. Two of the deadliest combatants alive, and we got a simple sword fight? No Force tricks, exotic stunts or powers, flipping, emotion, surprises -- nothing. Savantsof the Force, and all they did was wack swords . . . like any other mundane mage you've read the past dozen years. And supposedly a sinister Sith Lord, Dooku gets wacked pretty well.    Yet another SW book with a Dark title, Stewart at least bothered showing something than more Rodians, Twi'lek or Corellians. Yoda hitting the droid waiter like in Empire Strikes Back was funny until he overextended it, and driving around inside an astromech like Frank Oz was funnier, unlike that Starfighters of Adumar immaturity. Finally, a Del Rey book that said Artoo instead of R2D2!    Padme's 4 short scenes had absolutely no relevance to anything at all.    People talk for a couple of sentences, reflect on something, talk another line or two, ponder more. You realise two people in a room have barely spoken half a dozen sentences after several pages, but hey, Del Rey just wants a manuscript turned in, who cares for 5 knot sailing, right?    Why say \\"Jedi\\" Council Chamber and \\"Republic\\" Senate every single time, if there's only one Senate and Council Chamber in the book? Excessive mention of Leem's furry brow above her triple eyes, repetitive hand gestures, you'd think a veteran author would calibre better.    Scout joins the harem of strong willed red haired, green eyed females like Mirith Sinn, Bria Tharen, Mara Jade. Jumping Mario, at least change the eye colour! I get it. Scout. Mockingbird, his previous book. I was expecting Boo to pop out and surprise you . . .    What surprise? We're expected to believe Dooku will really defect? Like that despicable Balance Point, you know the end earlier than halfway. You damn well know he wasn't going to, and couldn't, because he's a villain in other stories right after this. What's all this hype about Scout's creative expertise? She only displays it once for the apprentice tournament, and hardly after.    Why the stinking farts were characters full named every time? Maks Leem and Master Maks Leem every time!!    Where the hell were the editors?!    What is it about SW that allows you to submit borderline slushpile and call it publishable material? You honestly believe real editors would let that happen? Why, nickname someone Iron Hands, and he says Master Iron Hands every time!    Rampant usage of Earth metaphors and expressions is highly conspicuous for a SW book. Extensive waffling, like the several pages it took just to say Dooku's package was delivered in chapter 2. It may have introduced the droids, but you can't squander premium pages for such a short book. And they were playing dejarik. Sabacc and dejarik the only two games you ever see in SW.     Kenobi and Anakin come late and out of nowhere, making little relevance to the plot. Anakin's corny lines foreshadowing his master's destiny shows you how sacred they think the old movies' lines are to us. And if Dooku's defection is incredulous to take seriously, how does the kid's appearance sour it, which was the whole point of the book?    Dark Rendezvous: teen book, blandly titled, penned with breezy simplicity, stenched with characters and an implausible storyline that shows no surprises at any time. No gushing adoration of a book, folks, just plain and simple what it was.	2005-03-15
US	34270585	R1Z1HT98E8SC34	0345434110	241741985	Star Wars, Episode I: The Phantom Menace	Books	3	1	4	N	N	More bland fair than fanfair	A commendable attempt at insubstantial writing, but if you're not used to it by now, the stimcaf needs a higher dose.     The opening chapter is exciting and explains just how the kid busts up his racer, which is about the only good writing you'll see in the book. Once the movie's opening scene kicks in, the parameters of restrictive writing closes in, limiting attention to detail, depth and casual flow till the back cover.     And the simple, easy style of writing certainly doesn't impress. Numerous occasions he'll begin a scene saying \\"Qui-Gon, Padme, See-Threepio and Jar Jar Binks returned to Watto's shop, or something to that effect. These lists of character names strung out one after another is about as boring as you can get. How about \\"Qui-Gon was the first to enter Watto's shop, Padme at his back; Jar Jar trailing her wake.\\"     He falls into the same robotic writing that Luceno, Zahn and certain others have; repeating the same descriptive features, repetitive wordage and other annoying facets. While we didn't get Denning's infamous efflux word 30 times a book, I don't want to see Qui-Gon's \\"leonine\\" face described as such even half as much, or the kid's \\"pug face.\\"     It was almost as if you just went through the motions, you didn't quite feel the real emotions and thoughts of the characters. A rather detached style, all too common nowadays with Star Wars. And don't say the book was based off a rigid manuscript and a few available movie shots---you don't need them to deeper decriptive surroundings, emotive thoughts and flow of action. Dialogue was equally stiff and I really don't see why characters just can't speak whatever extra they want, so long as the movie lines are of course used.     And when your career evolved around outright and unpunished LOTR plagurism, it's insurmountably challenging to take Brooksie seriously.     It was rare for a character to actually be wrtitten without their full names; I think saying Bibble instead of Sio Bibble would have sufficed, what do you think? And though Brookes' book had to specially cater to a global audience new to a SW book, having seen the movie, just why was a major name like Obi-Wan write so rigidly and awkwardly? Was he ever not seething with impatience, anger, impetuous?     The final showdown almost saves this light pancake, and it was apparent how awkward it would be if Qui-Gon and McGreggor could only call Maul \\"dark warrior\\" or Sith Lord\\" every time, so he gives in and just says Darth Maul, despite the fact Qui-Gon's pov couldn't know his name.     One of the rare books whose paperback came out mere months after its debut hardcover, but like Cloak of Deception, it's not catering to dedicated fans.     Of course, just how Maulie tracked them to Tatooine is still a mystery.	2005-01-05
US	34270585	R1TFBV7C1IGLK3	0345478274	13456449	Hard Contact (Star Wars: Republic Commando, Book 1)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A rare maturely written book for Star Wars	A maturely written book for mature readers, Hard Contact is long overdue. <br /> <br />Hard Contact is one of the few novels that bothers with a creative title. Longer than a word, without using Dark, it perfectly conveys its multiple meanings like all titles should. Game-related books are often short on depth and justification for publication, with game box cover ripoffs. HC's respectable cover and even stylised author lettering demands approval. <br /> <br />Having written this myself I was quick to catch the descriptive writing. You're not just told the ship is sitting on the ground; you're actually told how a hot-hulled attack fighter affects the surrounding flora. Brief and concise, Karen goes the one step further where books like Starfighters of Adumar is too busy cramming as much juvenile childish humour before the back cover is reached. Writing a Jedi sensing an approaching clone, would you think to say their short chronological ages gives them \\"children's minds\\"? I don't think so. <br /> <br />Outstanding work, indeed. <br /> <br />No fool editor would ever let someone write full character names each and every time all book long---a filthy outrage Dark Rendezvous inflicted on adult readers---which evidences Del Rey's alleged professionalism. Nor did you have to suffer though Shatterpoint's pompous bookwide arrogance with lines like \\"Mace's smile was a humour-freeze zone.\\" <br /> <br />A book's opening is suppose to grab your attention and incite further reading, and grab HC does. The opening line's style of voice is not one Star Wars readers have seen in books before, absent that usual bland monotone. Unlike Dark Rendezvous, which hurled all primary characters at you first chapter, and cluttered it to hell, we're introduced to the three voices of the novel in a timely and expedient manner. <br /> <br />Humour is best delivered subtle; more so when your core cast are shadow operatives not big on big talk. Unlike Arcers who play alone, commando quartets jig together with all the friction you'd expect and receive; the groundtrooper's envy at the commando's three-course-blaster was a nice touch. <br /> <br />HC is a pavlova of creativity. You didn't get yet another Corellian-Twi'lek-Rodian thrown at you. Nor a specific-climatised world like jungles or arid. Qiilura was allround normal. The sheer creativity you can wield with a transmogrifying alien is limited only by imagination. That the Gurlanin character exhibited persona and flare for the small page presence it had is evidence of Karen's miser writing---no sentence goes to waste. <br /> <br />Heck, even the Jedi exuded a certain style all the more conspicuous for their small inclusion. Not only weren't their full names written each time, their gestures, postures and dialogue were varied and styled. More importantly, Arlington Zey spoke normally: \\"I am sure of this\\", instead of the usual esoterical Jedi \\"Sure of this, I am.\\" <br /> <br />What I liked best was knowing exactly how it would feel walking and talking like a commando. You were showed how they saw through their visors, their emotions and thoughts over various scenarios. And this book was shackled with tight time constraints? Impressive. <br /> <br />Echoes of Earth, for eg, was very readable and untechnical for those who don't know a quagmire from a quasar. You got the gist of the military acronyms. HC had none of those hard military terminology you'd expect from a book of its genre. Blatantly employing her own diction, Karen dares to offer new words like sinulation and her own profanity, not the ubiquitous sithspawn and sithspit we only seem to get. <br /> <br />You'd expect Skirata to be called a drill instructor . . . but why should terms be bound by Earthian definition? Make your own, and Hard Contact didn't disappoint. A key fault of Dark Rendezvous was the distinct Earth similes and expressions. It was shockingly conspicuous. This is Star Wars; and you expect to see their way of expressions, not ours. <br /> <br />Feeble Forceness has been explored before, only illustrated far better than Shadow Hunter's Darsha or that irritant Scout from Dark Rendezvous. Scout was created as little Forceful, but was written as an utter contradiction, the way her Force powers never failed her when she needed it most. Here, Etain's level is small and it stays small, a consistency other books had lacked. <br /> <br />It was refreshing to read a heroic band of characters who weren't outnumbered and outgunned by the evil bad enemy, as a trillion books delight in. It's rare to see the heroes not just courageous but actually canny, resourceful, and damn well competent. It's their game, Qiilura is their home field, and this makes it enjoyable. <br /> <br />The chapter quotes were great, varied, and fun. Adar Tallon got a mention. \\"How do clones pick each other out? Who cares? They're there to fight, not socialise.\\" Tell me that wasn't slick, come on. <br /> <br />Too often villains' personality don't match their known profile. While the Mandalorian's dialogue was sharp and polished, his lack of proactive performance detracted from living up to his full potential. Hokan's scenes came across as of little importance too, and the constant reacting to events didn't advanced his role or naming similarity to (Hulk) Hogan. <br /> <br />Further more, the lack of a climatic finale kinda ended the book with a fizzle. It would have been interesting to see how a fully armed and operational commando went hand to hand with a Mando. <br /> <br />The somewhat repetitive attack scenes was a small downside. The commandoes essentially gunned and grenaded their way to the finish line the same way all book long. A broader range of fighting styles, and more action scenes, was needed; the one time when a commando went knife to knife with a foe came across as a little clumsily executed. <br /> <br />In short, Hard Contact is a fresh breath of mature writing, with a strong cast that balances emotive entanglementswith enough sporadic action to keep you interested. While the specific nature of the novel may not appeal to everyone, it's understandable why Karen's return in 2008 is too long. <br /> <br />\\"There was nothing to be gained by wilfully ignoring excellence in another.\\" <br />Hard Contact; p185	2004-12-14
US	34270585	R3SV9JP5PWGQT	1569719853	306433820	The Stark Hyperspace War (Star Wars)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Good for a bite, nothing too fancy	When young rogue Iarco Stark decides the galaxy needs a good shake, you know Stark Hyperspace War is just ready to rumble.<br /><br />Set after Darkness, with Aayla Secura returned to the Council for retraining following her current amnesia, this story is told in flashback when a veteran just seems to walk into the room. A dozen years before TPM, the attack on a bacta refinery sends market prices soaring and worlds roaring. Into the equation come the Jedi diplomatic team, and shadowing their tails the radical Ranulph Tarkin, whose military ambitions outweigh whatever usefulness his puffing presence offers. Throw in Stark's smarmy mouth, the expectant flavour of bumbling Jedi, and the resulting recipe is action all the way.<br /><br />Or at least, that's the overall idea. The reality is action on a pony ride.<br /><br />Readers of Hunt for Aurra Sing and Acts of War will find the art familiar. This means saber blades and energy shots are little more than colour sticks, illustrations and detail simple. Not terribly sophisticated, but it gets the job done. But it's those darn floating heads that can grate on you, and head shots there are plenty, reminding you not to confuse the present to the main flashback escapade, as though that was even possible. Senator Valorum didn't look a thing like his movie counterpart, but neither did Calrissian in Scoundrel's Luck . . . and it's not like Antilles resembled his alter ego all that much too in his Rogue Squadron series, but what the hey, it's all creative liberty.<br /><br />The Republic fleet consists of the ubiquitous Consular cruisers and a variety of other Judicial Dept refitted cruisers. Artists seem to like that particular of nondescript attack fighter, the one Sing flew in her Hunt for Aurra comic. Alien variety wasn't too high either, but the nature of the setting didn't demand it.<br /><br />Stark Hyperspace has only half of its issue fronts collected in the TPB, a criminal trend that SW comics seem to be doing. An outrageous snub to TPB collectors seeing how you can fit them all one measly page, and how cool the Wookie Jedi looked with those blaster bolts blazing around his saber swing!<br /><br />Apparently it was yet again necessary to remind us who was who with the use of full character names. Ask yourself who speaks each other's full names in your home, class or workplace, that comics demand this highly annoying custom. Why would a Jedi conversing with a fellow Jedi they've known for decades slow their speech with such needless formality? Yes, TPBs are several issues combined, but you don't need that many instances.<br /><br />The popularity of Republic comics has made Jon Ostrander an equally popular name among fans. As the primary Jedi Plo Koon didn't waste words on the mess they're neck in, Valorum was refreshingly blunt, the Jedi still talk like archaic holos and Tarkin's father was a cold air balloon of blustering wasted potential. Humour wasn't wasted, however, and Billy Bango's howling at them wippersnappers shows why it's good to have more Podracer-type aliens.<br /><br />No Jedi story is complete without a Jedi death, of course, but comics and books have showed a Hutt load of them dying in the most inane and casual ways. You started asking why Sith need work themselves so hard, or what value the formidable Tyyvoka's allegedly canny foresight is really worth. Buy SW comics and you see the familiar pattern: when you're told a Jedi is particularly powerful, they don't seem to last long. But it's damn refreshing to see new Jedi take the stage for once, and this is where Stark Hyperspace has its value. Koon may have his cameos elsewhere, but he leads the show here. Jinn and Kenobi support the cast, rather than dominate them for once, and it's great to see Tholme and Quinlin as a pair, particularly as Kenobi and Quin are fledgling apprentices. Their friendship is forged here, to be tested in later Republic stories. Like all her comics inclusions, though, Adi Gallia doeslittle.<br /><br />The ending comes out as a little weak, but not quite the style you're used to seeing in general. But hey, with Koon playing his telepathy, action galore and more Neimodian whimpering, you can find far better juvenile drivel like Betrayal and those twin TOTJ prequel nonsense.	2004-11-07
US	34270585	RJUQGLBBQUYF6	1569710201	748774462	Knights of the Old Republic (Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi, Volume One)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An engaging storyline, but not a visual delight	It rains, it snows, I still say Ulic Qel-Droma and Kir Kanos look the same. And looks belie Knights of the Old Republic, vanguard in the Tales of the Jedi series that it is. This is actually two different stories: the Onderon arc, and the Ambria part, starring bald-headed Nomi. Considering the next installment, the elusive to find Freedon Nadd Uprising continues the Onderon storyline, they should have included it as well.<br />This is a time when the Republic is still growing, still exploring the stars for new worlds, still ripe for adventure. When Onderon requests Jedi meditation to resolve its internal strife, acclaimed Jedi Master Arca Jeth dispatches his three apprentices to end the civil strife. What they find is dark side mayhem and a 400-year-old Sith spirit, dead but not quite digested.<br />The art quality is a sample of what you'll put up with in TOTJ: horrible. Comics now, dominated by the ever-popular Republic series, have never looked better; and despite how art technology back then isn't up to today's standards, console yourself that at least this is better than that dreadful so-called art of Dark Empire.<br />Illustrations aren't so bad. It's just that things look cluttered and messy. But that's the theme, what things were like four millenniums ago: patchy apparel, bizarre starships that look more Transformer toy than space vehicle, ancient-style architecture. Though why lightsabers of that era were drawn with a shimmer glow rather than simple straight lines is a mystery. <br />Dialogue is nothing to applaud. Reader beware---we're dumb, so we need to be reminded of every character's full name every second appearance. It's enough to put you off the entire series.<br />It was Jedi Master Jeth that hooked me in. I admit it, purchasing this vanguard of the series merely from an online preview I saw. The aging Arkanian just looked so haunting, so ominous, I knew it would be worth it.<br />And worth getting despite the awful art quality it is. The plot moves along swiftly, and readers will eventually get used to the fact that the Jedi of this era can talk to animals, perform unusual feats, and bumble around like all good Jedi. I say this because Jeth's fortuitous arrival is all that saves the day, who then reprimands them for not sensing the dark side around them. Which then looks odd for old Jeth, when the students counter he never taught them how to repel it.<br />More disturbing is Onderon's moon. If it orbits so close that their atmospheres periodically brush, allowing the moon's hostile fauna to migrate to Onderon, how doesn't it succumb to gravity and drop into the planet as well?<br />Well? That sure heck needed explaining. And if that doesn't raise the cynical brow, then the implausibility of a Jedi character affixing a droid arm in place of his severed limb no probs surely will.<br />Ah well. It gets worse with the second section, Nomi Sunrider---and so does the art. The art quality is so dirty, so filthy, it's simply shocking. WHY is Sunrider's head half-bald. It's unsightly, ugly, and yes, red-heads have less hair than all other colours, but this was bad!<br />Beast Jedi Master Thon is a curious fellow, and about all that makes this story more so some tasty features. Like the brief flash of Jedi history, showing the origin of the Sith; and bizarre starships, hollowed out of kilometre-long space insects. Otherwise, you'll be wondering why the art was so poor, why Sunrider is severely balding, or how her late husband can pop in as a Jedi spirit when only wimpy apprentice.<br />Overall, KOTOR introduces you to the main players and places of the series and is interesting and creative enough to well warrant a purchase.	2004-04-19
US	34270585	R44967QG71Z21	159307042X	453382469	Rite of Passage (Star Wars)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A blast of a read	Buckle your belts, hold on to your hide, Rite of Passage is a blast. The team that gave you Twilight and Darkness are back, just as good, and showing why Dark Horse comics have never been better.<br />The quality of art is what you've come to expect from the Duursema-Kryssing team: fanciful illustrations, vibrant colours, you won't be disappointed. With Aayla looking like a bundle of cuteness in the opening scenes, and Villie back to grinning again, even if his page time was less than prior comics, it's back to old times.<br />Dialogue varies between the cast, though the Morgukai syntax limits creativity with their short sentences. Even the Jedi get some good lines, and for once aren't the usual wimps they seem to be. The Morgukai want Vos and Secura dead, they'll have to work for it. Which, of course, just gives room for some good snappy one-liners.<br />What is it with comics, that full names must be mentioned almost each time? Readers know who Quinlin Vos and Aayla Secura are; what need is there for characters to address each other with both names? Crimson Empire, the TOTJ and Ongoing series, they all did this.<br />There's nothing extravagant about the plot. The comic introduces Nat Secura, the young Twi'lek fans will remember Bib Fortuna making a fuss over in Tales from Jabba's Palace. His abduction has Vos and Secura in hot pursuit, and a father-son duo of Morgukai hunters not far behind. A race against time to avert interclan war, with the life of their master hanging in the balance as well. One will ascend to Jedi Master, the other to Knight, and the fun begins.<br />The only issue of contention was how the Morgukai son survived to appear later, as readers last saw him stranded in the middle of a lava flow. How he could possibly get out of that could easily have been clarified with a line or two, and not spoil anything. Meant to surprise the reader, it taxed credulity, compounded again in the last pages.<br />Overall, Rite of Passage is another great comic by the talented team you know can deliver the goods and more. And with character development continuing to evolve in new directions, avid fans are sure to follow them as the new stories come.	2004-03-15
US	34270585	R1899TAD8YAE8F	034539299X	775423475	The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels (Star Wars)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An essential purchase for any Star Wars reader	The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels is a key reference book for the casual Star Wars fan or avid reader keen to know what their galaxy is flying and driving. Combining fun and informative knowledge makes this a great treat, and with the newer edition now out, there's no better time to acquire this when the price is low and many entries don't appear in the second guide.<br />Each ship or vehicle is rendered with an outline schematic and pencilled illustration. Though colourless, depth and detail are more than sufficient to give you an exact idea what they are. Key systems and functions are labelled, telling you the placement of guns and other technical stuff, which is useful, though some tags are no more than just telling you this a support struts, that an engine nacelle.<br />Pictures are brought to life by description, and the description for entries varied considerably. It's certainly informative for a casual reader, but many fans will find it light in detail too many places, specifics too vague at times. These guides should provide the basic specs of a ship: like manufacturer, length, number and types of guns, fighter complement, speed, and perhaps cargo capacity. While the Imperial Star Destroyer had extensive stats, the Ubrikkian space cruiser didn't even have a length, while the sandcrawler's height is only given, not its length. Both guides say only the Super Star Destroyer has &quot;over a thousand weapons&quot;, but don't provide an extra sentence or two to say its composition.<br />A considerable percentage of entries came from the Dark Empire comics, whose ships and vehicles have rarely been used outside those three comics. While the World Devastator and various starfighters within are of interest, who would care for the Amphibion water tank, TIE crawler tank or Hutt Caravel, that weren't even important in their respective comics?<br />The EGVV features many stuff from quaint and obscure sources, like gargantuan insectile Ithullian ore haulers, Star Home, Shieldships, Coral Vanda and private vehicles to name a few. The manufacturer section in the beginning is useful in identifying who makes what.<br />The errors and consistencies will appear only to the fan well conversant in SW lore. The TIE Defender made no mention of its tractor beam (neither did the NEGVV), the Sun Crusher looks different from its Dark Apprentice book's cover art, Star Home was undergunned from what its book said, are just some of the many but minor tidbits you'll discover.<br />But it was the excessive redundancy that was the primary failing of this guide. Many important ships were omitted like the Strike Cruiser, Corellian Gunship, Assault Frigate, Floating Fortress and Golan battle stations, all in frequent and popular usage when this was done. Alas, the NEGVV omitted them as well. Yet there are THREE landspeeder entries, THREE Death Stars, TWO swoops and TWO B-wings. <br />Overall, the EGVV is a great reference guide for those wondering what their SW ships and vehicles look and are, and with most of its contents unseen in the second guide, still have value as a current purchase.	2003-11-24
US	34270585	R2XDM6EFNFSRW6	0345449029	591518830	The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels (Star Wars)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A great compendium tarnished by key ships omitted	The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels has been eagerly awaited by countless fans, and at $60 Aust dollars, a hefty swallow without Amazon's cheaper alternative. With scores of potential new entries from the prequel movies and dozens of books since the first guide, colour and better spec info add value over the previous EGVV, with a wealth of new and unexpected ships to find out.<br />The first guide featured an outline schematic and pencilled illustration of each ship or vehicle. The NEGVV has each entry in full colour and textured detail that wonderfully brings them to three-dimensional life. Not all entries have optimal camera angles, and some weren't positioned too well at all. A single standardised view looking down at each ship would have afforded better detail and more to look at.<br />The entry specs was a welcome improvement over the sparse information the first guide had. Knowing the length of a ship is what these guides are all about, but when applicable, even the height was added. Good stuff. Some quotes were creative, others just bland, while the max speed was initially confusing, as the \\"G\\" at the end looks very much like a number, seemingly adding an extra digit to the speed! The NEGVV finally names the Chiss clawcraft and Republic Cruiser, which does have you wondering why no one has bothered to give them a simple name till now. <br />The guide features a short summary on what looks like every SW manufacturer in the galaxy, complete with their own individual insignia. A nice touch, though Kuat's is reminiscent of Zelda's Triforce because it is. Important ships systems and functions are also explained, in case you aren't aware what turbolasers, navcomputers and hyperdrive are. The inclusion of a speed and hyperdrive rating bar was commendable, which is always pertinent for the true fanatic. The battle maps were useless. Most buyers are movie fans who already know the major battles of the movies, and a flat map doesn't present anything new.<br/>But hype only excites so far, and beneath the shine and sparkle lurk enough small but serious mistakes to grease a Hutt uphill that have cost this NEGVV the quality it could have had.<br />Only the most popular and used ships are given entries, so where was the Bothan Assault Cruiser? Its absence was the biggest disappointment of all. A single entry collectively describing the new warships of the Black Fleet Trilogy would have been nice. The A-wing was not developed by the Empire, it's doubtful that the Techno Union's starship would be unarmed, the TIE Defender's tractor beam was still omitted, as was the weapons complement of the Super Star Destroyer, only that it has \\"over a thousand weapons\\", and why the hell the Naboo N-1 fighter still has no name is criminal. The XJ3 X-wing with all its new modifications over the original was ignored, and the Naboo Royal Cruisers have no name, as if a monarch would not name their own royal flagship. Still no Golan battle station or Floating Fortress.<br />The Vong warships of the NJO series has hardly been given any detail in 19 books, and just like their one-dimensional people, here too there is no detail. Readers rarely know how long they are and their armament, but that doesn't change here. The Vong have just four entires, all of them just as light in detail and depth as the books. Many more Vong ships are found in the appendix, equally obscure. The coralskipper was glossed over. If the dovin basal gravity creature controls both propulsion and shielding, how many grav holes can it generate? The fighter has just a single gun? Why no mention of its communications deficiency? Or its unique way of being flown? Or how everything allegedly becomes transparent to the pilot?<br />Overall, this is still one slick present and well worth getting by any legal or otherwise means. An enjoyable read, just one that could have been sharpened better.	2003-11-23
US	34270585	R25R9JA3SM0N7Y	1569715580	355862693	Twilight (Star Wars: Ongoing, Volume 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The cream of the cake	Twilight is simply one of the best Star Wars comics out there, and for damn good reason. Which is what you'd better have for passing over this.<br />The quality of art is not just excellent, it's outstanding. This is as close to three-dimensional material as there was at the time it came out---and there's more comics by the artistry team that's just as comparable. Colours are sharp, tone vibrant, texture and shadowing detailed. Illustrator Duursema shows what comics are supposed to one, and it's the cynical frog who decides to hop past her future SW works.<br />Dialogue is slick, Villie the Devaronian slicker still. The shifty dealer's quixotic manner of speech takes some getting used to, about as long as why he never stops grinning. Ostrander is quite adept at scripting his work and ensuring readers have just enough info; the short bio when visiting the Kiffu and Ryloth systems are particularly helpful for those unfamiliar with such locales or just to refresh memories.<br />Quinlin Vos takes the spotlight, a Jedi that cameos briefly in the previous comic Emissaries to Malastare. And waking up inside a burning room on the lawless environs of Nar Shardda with goons gunning for your hide, you know you have the premise of a hand-slap plot that's just too good to put down. Vos must regain his memory while partnering with a two-timing Devaronian that can be trusted as far as his sorry carcass can be thrown. The search to work out what in tarnation happened to him is only the beginning, a quest that will lead him to a sinister narcotic operation, corrupt politicians and his own apprentice, that blue-skinned Twi'lek you saw in AOTC Aayla Secura.<br />The very characters are creative and nothing generic. Vos looks North American native Indian, a unique appearance previously unseen in SW comics; inspired from the brief snapshot you see of him in Phantom Menace, when Selbulba threatens Binks. His Guardian heritege lets him pull psychic images off objects, quite handy for detective use. Villie is not your typical rogue either, though he gets a bit indignant when you question his loyalty. \\"Of course you can trust Villie. Is money involved, isn't it?\\"<br />Read those energy spiders in the Jedi Search novel? Well, see them here, as long with guest star appearances from Bib Fortuna, Mace Windu and of course Sidious himself. You also get an assortment of aliens unseen before along with the familiar.<br />All comics from the Ostrander-Duursema team are aptly titled: Twilight's double meaning reflects Vos's skirting the dark side as he attempts to reeducate his understanding of the Force, and the illicit business conducted on Ryloth's narrow twilight surface, where night and day exist together from a world's slow rotation.<br />Overall, Twilight is one of the best you can get, with better yet still to come from this pair.	2003-10-21
US	34270585	R2AFUOPXLEHOEQ	1569716595	951484799	Star Wars: Darkness	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another good read	Darkness is another success by the Ostrander-Duursema team that Dark Horse better keep around longer. With them in town, SW comics have never been better.<br />Though Darkness was published next, Infinity's End, a one-shot something called Starcrash, The Stark Hyperspace War and then Darkness actually follow after Twilight. Publishing chronology, it seems, was disrupted after Twilight; Darkness briefly mentions events of Infinity's End that would have readers curious. Myths whisper due to poor sales, but Vos's adventure on Dathomir still sounds interesting . . .<br />Like Twilight, solid art quality is of course delivered when you see Duursema and the Parson/Kryssing colourists. This is actually due to new computer inking techniques, which is shockingly superior to the &quot;old comics&quot; before it. With most of the scenery a Dagobah-like locale there on the prison world Kiffex, you can expect dank swamps, lawless inmates and more of Sheif Tinte's egyptian-like visage.<br />Dialogue felt a bit better here than Twilight, that's because more characters are featured. Effort was taken to give each new Jedi a different style of speech and persona voice, and it shows. Quinlin Vos's sidekick Villie returns . . . but he's not the same without his continual grinning. More of Vos's childhood is revealed, who actually would have missed Jedi training had his master Tholme not talked the Council into accepting him. Too old at 4yrs, eh?<br />As for the storyline, Aayla Secura---the blue-skinned Twi'lek of AOTC and Vos's amnesiac apprentice---has gone to Vos's homeworld to exact revenge against him . . . but finds its deadliest prisoner: Volffe Karkko, a Dark Jedi the Council imprisoned centuries ago for capital crimes. Now freed from his stasis cell, Karkko unleashes hordes of his fellow vampiric Anzati against the terrified population.<br />Dispatched to investigate, Vos and his master Tholme will need all the help they can get sans Villie's sarcasm. Zao and T'ra Saa provideinteresting new Jedi: one a bunny rabbit, like that Podracer contestant, the other a humanoid tree Neti like Ood Bnar from TOTJ. Cool and creative, nothing is offered bland. Vos must overcome his Anzati childhood fear while freeing Secura's memories and confronting Karkko.<br />Once again, Darkness delivers the goods with style, expanding depth to known favourites and adding exotic new characters, it's well worth acquiring. The forthcoming Rite of Passage by the same team is late in publishing but eagerly anticipated.	2003-10-21
US	34270585	R223AF2YKNIQKR	1569716714	664492560	Star Wars: Jango Fett: Open Seasons	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A must purchase	Open Seasons is one of those comics that is highly recommended reading. This is where you'll find Jango Fett's backstory, which seamlessly ties into what little is known of his cloned son Boba Fett, and his Jaster Mereel alto ego. The comic derives its name from the four issues subtitled after the four seasons of winter, spring, summer, fall, and provides reason for Montross's animosity in the Bounty Hunter console game.<br />The artwork here is just superb. Colours shine off the page, illustrations are depthful, more 3Dish than the standard fare you get, what more could you want? I strongly believe that comics, being the visual material they are, must have the best artwork possible, to show what a standard novel can only express in words. If that's the case, Open Seasons is gold.<br />The dialogue is up to par. Could have benefited with more humour, but the cast worked well for given characters. Then again, given the nature of the plot, too much would have detracted from the persona of Jango Fett.<br />The storyline is your typical coming of age: peaceful youth avenging the death of parents and a shattered childhood, forged into one of the galaxy's finest bounty hunters. The setting is soon after Phantom Menace, Dooku recounting to his master Sidious why Fett makes the ideal prime clone for their clandestine operations. It even provides some explanation for why Dooku himself--if you can believe the old man--broke from the Jedi Order.<br />You see what Jango is made of here in the Galidraan debacle, where the Jedi and Mandalorians have it out. You'd get the impression the Jedi really are dependant on their saber sticks to be dangerous, as though that made any difference to the Fett. Does leaving you wondering in AOTC if script limitations hadn't necessitated Mace Windu to survive Fett.<br />Just a few trivialties here. Jango looks more lighter complexioned than he did on the screen. Without enough names in dialogue, it does make it challenging to identify your Mandalorian in near-identical uniforms. Most annoying, why do these people always have to be farmboys (Luke, Baron Fel, Jango, etc)? And the biggest one of all: at the end, when Jango flies across space to crash through a ship's bridge viewports, in a vacuum without breathing or decompression?!<br />Overall, with art quality and storyline this good, Open Seasons is one fine gift to get, and definitely worth getting.	2003-10-20
US	34270585	R2614C1ZQHLPCR	1569719640	485708599	Betrayal (Star Wars: Empire, Vol. 1)	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Buy out of desperation, and for nothing less	Simple observation cannot deny the cold truth of Empire: Betrayal. This is mediocre meat, a comic so laudably bland as to be purchased only for the determined collector or just curious buyer. And with so many peculiarities and problems here, preferably not at all.<br />The art is a mixed meal that incites disappointment. You have page after page of lacklustre illustration and dull colouring, interspersed with these intermittent panels of admirable artwork. The Star Destroyer shot, a familiar and faithful rendition from a movie screenshot, is one that certainly stands out. Strangely, I thought background scenery was actually rendered better and with more creativity than the foreground activity that is the primary focus of a reader.<br />Apparently there was some difficulty drawing the Padme character. Her hairline was so far back from forehead it brought reminders of Nomi Sunrider, a character from another comic whose half-bald head was most prominent. We also get that blasted face again you'll recognise it from the Mara Jade comic and the Imperial officer's face used for most Imperial officer faces there. Character poses were too often puerile and didn't parallel that character's speech. Like Vader trying to explain something to his Emperor, reaching out to him with one had; like his combat posture that too often just depicts him awkwardly bent. And of course, the Jedi girl was boobed up big, rather conspicuous when the rest if her attire is very covered.<br />Adding itch to scratch was the dialogue. Just as bad as the lines from Tales of the Jedi, the depth of character dialogue can be summed up as food without flavour, not just flavour missing from food. So many one-sentence lines, so many simple worded conversations as to render speech bubbles a waste of time. The Emperor had some damn good lines in Dark Empire; here he was as stale as the storyline.<br />That is, if you desire to call a cadre of top Imperial execs plotting the coup of the Sith themselves, as though such reality was possible. This comic lacked a cast readers could identify with. No exploration of the Imperial schemers, no insight to cybernetic Trachta, who was on comradely terms to Palpatine for three decades. They are just there, double-dealing each other, unknown other than name.<br />Scenes apparently flow they swift here, and without starting them with a new page they can get a bit too fast. You'll be reading the schemers, then abruptly a Vader scene, which is repeated over. Boba Fett was thrown in at the end for no other reason than to have an excuse to feature him for a few pages. His exclusion would have made little difference. And why now, after a couple decades, would Vader ponder his loyalty to his master, that he should flashback to his apprentice childhood?<br />What is the master plan for ridding themselves of the galaxy's two deadliest individuals? Lure Vader away, as though a contingent of troopers and riffraff would actually succeed where countless Jedi failed. Then---and the part I thought I had misread---march into the throne room and arrest Palpatine! But don't jump for the escape pods just yet, it gets better. You can't say the spastic-brained officer had no idea Palpatine has elite Royal Guardsmen or that he's a Sith, the plotters do say they want to end the Sith reign. And when Palpatine lets loose that lightning, what did that officer think was going to happen?<br />Overall, this is by far a comic better borrowed than bought, if these aspects are of concern for you. The art is far below par than what it can be these days, character dialogue way to simple and short, and a storyline with no surprises thrown in make this comic lacking behind better peers.	2003-10-19
US	34270585	R10HPFLDL2EAOK	156971651X	106146956	Star Wars: The Hunt For Aurra Sing	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Aurra Sing-a-long for fans	The Hunt for Aurra Sing is another commendable comic in this Ongoing series, one that has little substance aside from the fun read it is. With the primary storyline hunting down the Jedi killer like the animal she is, this comic lacks any other plots that could have made it more interesting.<br />This comic is closure for the Ki-Ad-Mundi, A'Sharad and Sing characters. Next up you have Twilight, and the focus under new artist teams shifts to Quinlin Vos and his peers.<br />Quality of art is comparable to Emissaries to Malastare---or at least its first half, before the art went out the airlock. Here, texture and illustrations are not of Twilight's superb quality but still stand out well. Aside from the saber blades, which are little more than single-colour sticks, shadowing and resolution is actually not so bad. All cover arts here, however, issue and TPB fronts, were terrible.<br />The dialogue varies between the cast, which incorporates the simple-minded Jedi hunters, the Quarren political retinue, and of course Sing's delightful self-indulgent lines. Cocky, sarcastic, brazen, you just gotta love her.<br />The prologue scene is typical of what you'd expect from this sort of comic, but being long enough it doesn't end too quickly and had enough emotional support to see it through. Sing taking out a Jedi team after her trail---an Anx and Kerestian (8 cheek noses) Jedi Master, starts the ball rolling. Interesting to see her reluctant to kill apprentices until they're old enough to face her; the little Twi'lek girl, now orphaned, appears back in the later Aayla Secura comic, a nice continuity touch by that team indeed.<br />The Jedi party after her hide acts like all Jedi of that era do: predictably naive and persistently outsmarted. But hey, if they weren't shot down, the plot couldn't progress, could it? For young A'Sharad, it's to account for the murderess that killed his father; for Ki-Ad-Mundi, it's concern for his master's welfare, the enigmatic Dark Woman; and Adi Gallia's lacklustre role here has her little more than a figurehead.<br />Did I say Dark Woman? You bet I did. She's back again, grinning in looks, with her own issue cover in the third. If Vader only slays her just before Episode 4, there's still two decades of timeline to have more of her. Hint hint wink nudge . . .<br />Overall, The Hunt for Aurra Sing will appeal to her fanbase, and particularly if you've already invested in Outlander and Emissaries to Malastare.	2003-10-15
US	34270585	R23S5XS22FIRPC	1569714010	37331384	Star Wars: Mara Jade - By the Emperor's Hand	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A rare comic that's a must purchase	Mara Jade: By the Emperor's Hand is one of those rare comics that has great art, smooth storyline, commendable dialogue and genuine depth. Co-authored by Stackpole and Zahn, two of Star Wars' more popular novelists known for quality output. The result here is another of their hits you expect when collaborative craniums work well.<br />The quality of art shines bright, considering the comic dates back to a period where quality and art are not what they are now. You can just tell efforts were made to add extra ice to this cream, the way the front credits were specially done. Characters and climates, scenery and locale, were all highly rendered and coloured well. This is definitely one of your more 3D-ish comics, and worth the purchase if just for that.<br />Dialogue is what you'd expect from usual Stackpole and Zahn efficiency: quick, creative and inventive. Mara's persona here, in her Imperial days, lends her a cool competence matched only by her slick lines. The support cast isn't left out, and while I haven't quite worked out who oversaw what issues, the authors are at their vintage best here.<br />What makes this comic stand out from the mediocre variety out there is its creativity and effort to give just a little more for readers. The sheer range of aliens is both amazing and appreciated, both the familiar denizens and all new ones just for a show here and there. Alien species ranged from the typical to exotic to comical. Mara's is never without a way of working, and the inventive methods of working past obstacles speak highly of the writers' imagination behind her.<br />The storyline itself is simple and enough: eliminate Black Nebula's crimelord, who fancies himself the heir of the recently toppled Black Sun criminal network. Having failed to kill Skywalker at Jabba's palace, this she does easily. Too easily; and when her Emperor master bites the dust, she resolves to finish the job.<br />Nice use of Isard and Pestage, and why Mara earns her wrath. Good to seea dark-skinned man, that Imperial tech. It's rather rare to get that in comics, when humans are predominantly fair skinned. Humour, of course, wasn't lacking. The bartender alien looked like that Dexter from AOTC, his voice easily imagined.<br />There were some faults to note, small but noticeable as they were. The facial likeness of Strok was given to other Imperial army officers, which can confuse readers at the end. The end page itself just sorted of finished . . . perhaps a bit too abruptly and not slow enough. Mara doesn't complete her mission till almost the last page.<br />Further more, she does an astonishing amount to self-thinking. Thought-bubbles were everywhere, which you will find common in books but sort of gave the bemused impression the lady sure speaks a lot to herself! Almost every panel had text in which, factored into the full 144 pages, slows down reading and makes for a long comic here.<br />While I had problems with Jabba \\"just\\" giving Mara a speeder to get away from him when she arouses his suspicions, overall, omitting this nifty slight of work is outright criminal, and with such high standards of excellence it's well worth your $$.	2003-10-15
US	34270585	R2OUHL2CNY11BZ	1569715424	554860429	Star Wars: Darth Maul	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Ice cream without flavour . . . a waste of potential	This Darth Maul comic lacks the great taste it could have been had the chefs behind the scenes bothered to add even some basic flavour. Or even a title, seeing how you have to say \\"Darth Maul comic\\" to avoid confusion to the central character itself. After all, this happens just before the Shadow Hunter novel, in turn, just before The Phantom Menace movie.    And the central character in this action ride he is. Semi-attired half the time lets you see Maul's full Sith tattoos, and if he bothered to speak a bit more you'd have to add more text bubbles near him.  This is when Maul receives his Infiltrator ship and his droid probes. Essentially, this is a comic that is evenly balanced: what's outstanding is eroded by its deficiencies.    And the art by Jan Duursema is outstanding. This is a comic, not a book. Comics must be as visually impressive as can be. And Jan delivers the goods, and with her recent Star Wars material showing just how better her comics are improving in conjunction with the colouring crew, of course! Dark Horse has struck gold with this team.    Maul hacks, wacks and slashes his way through piles of bodyguards to eliminate the Black Sun crime chiefs, which is pretty much all the storyline has to offer. But it is the little touches that save this comic. Creative tidbits like the whiney Oolth, seen in the Shadow Hunter novel; brief cameos of Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan; informing the reader that Itotchi aliens, like the Jedi Master Saesee Tiin, are actually telepathic; a monocle-wearing Dug; charismatic Black Sun leader; and a wide range of aliens.    But with the choice parts of the meal eaten, the sour portions are plenty. There really is little reason for Maul not to talk. He doesn't have to make witty or sarcastic comments; he could have thought bubbles. This is one Sith whose single-minded dedication dispenses with speech unless needed, which just brings down the comic. And after such lightsaber bloodshed, you understand why Maully chooses to kill his principle target bare handed.    The opening pages are just corny and cliche: Maul vs duelling droids. Sound familiar? Like his opening in the Shadow Hunter book? What could have saved this was a more satisfying ending. The confrontation with the Nightsister guard was faster than lightspeed. At least give readers more of a fight. Yes, he's a powerful Sith warrior, and he'll win, but make him work for it a bit!    Overall, this comic has fantastic art but too many burps to digest well. Good for a light read, but not to be taken seriously. The discrepancies within are the sort that are easily fixed, but just weren't bothered with. There are better meals out there, but this'll suffice as an entree.	2003-10-13
US	34270585	R1IW4C38W32VYM	1569715459	824256246	Emissaries to Malastare (Star Wars: Ongoing, Volume 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Witty and wild, this doesn't disappoint	Emissaries to Malastare is actually challenging to rate. Its high page count is more like two separate stories; though interconnected, the second different but for its loose relation to the first. The quality of the first fades very noticeably past the midpoint, but with shabbier fare out there this won't disappoint.<br />And with the Dark Woman starting off the comic with a quick duel against young A'Sharad, there's no need to hide that smile---anymore than why my fascination of this character can be explained. Perhaps it's her sharp tongue and haunting prowess, or the way she disappears in thin air. More likely it's her sharper looks.<br />The quality of art is smooth and commendable, though not of Twilight's exemplary performance. Malastare is a world with enough diversity for creative opportunity, and with the methane mists of a Podracer circuit parallelling a consular summit, it was well done indeed. But when the business on Malastare ends midway, as does the level of art. The investigation on Nar Shadda has shoddy art quality, unforgivable with the standards now available. A den of smuggler inequity Nar Shadda may be, the art doesn't need to be as badly done as unpicturesque the polluted environment may be.<br />Dialogue came in a fashionable bag: stylish for all seasons. With half the Jedi Council there to broker a peace accord, you can expect diplomatic etiquette polished to a mirror. The devious players spoke devious, the sybarites their own way.<br />The world is Dug populated but Gran dominated. Adding Lannik terrorists to the party and you get duplicitous danger swirled with traitorous betrayal. Selbulba is back along with his other Podracer faces, and with the twin-headed race commentators mouthing good humour you have yourself an enjoyable read.<br />You'll be treated to some nice touches here, from a half-headed Hutt and Villie the shifty Devaronian to revisiting the Smuggler's Moon, where continuity from Dark Empire was faithfully preserved. The Fode-Beed team was hilarious with their advertiser endorsements.<br />The focus started off with Master Piell and his Lannik ties to the summit, yet A'Sharad and Ki-Adi-Mundi wants their screen time too. Once Malastare is done, Mace Windu and Depa Billaba become the spotlight, thus making this seem more like two tales rather than one encompassing one.<br />Overall, this is one comic that cannot be missed out on for those seeking both a fun and delightful read.	2003-10-08
US	34270585	RGRKQ85UO0540	1569715149	354227263	Star Wars: Outlander	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A comic that won't disappoint	Outlander is one of those comics that is almost great in every respect---and precisely just why they named it the \\"Ongoing\\" series I have yet to ascertain.<br />Jedi Ki-Adi-Mundi is the star of the show, bounty hunter Jedi Aurra Sing the villain. And hold on to your pony, it's a race against time to find their target first: a reclusive Jedi hermit, missing for a decade and a half, now rediscovered. This story doesn't lack action, and action there is plenty. Never a dull moment, it doesn't hurt this tale actually has intrigue. Hett the Howlrunner doesn't reveal his self-imposed isolation from his fellow Jedi till the end, an end that could spoil you if you're silly enough to peruse the last page first!<br />Art quality is great, it just really is. Not as breathtaking as Twilight or anything from the Duursema/Parson illustartor-colourist ace team, and it does make a difference to have a comic this visually appealing. Not withstanding much of this is on Tatooine, where you just know yellow and tan colours are going to predominate on that dustball.<br />It was a pity, though, when the artistry team changed halfway, it just wasn't quite the same. On the plus side, the variation is so subtle that you'd really have to notice the changeover. Well done indeed.<br />Dialogue doesn't dare disappoint. The primary characters of Mundi, Sing and Hett have their own style of \\"voice.\\" Fans of Jedi killer Sing will get a kick out of her lines, and her tendency to speak in that odd way gets extra points for creativity. She's overconfident, rude, impish and mean; and her presentation on page shows it.<br />You're left wondering who and what Hett is. Once a fearles Jedi warrior, now a Tusken tribal chief, his enigma will leave you guessing till the end what's really behind the disco dancing. Which will leave you asking why he just didn't enlighten his fellow Jedi kinsman sooner, but hey, you gotta wait.<br />And Mundi doesn't leave anything for the takers. After the obligatory coneheadjoke---okay, it had to happen sooner or later---he's all business and no humour. The only non-Master on the Jedi Council, this is one character who doesn't messes around. Standing there, alone, finger pointing at Jabba as he tells the fat Hutt what he thinks of him, that's just gotta smile your face. Mundi doesn't lack skill, too--from chucking an Empire Strikes Back Yoda demonstration to self-healing, he's not as passive as you thought he was from the prequel movies.<br />And as for the storyline the real mastermind behind the conflict is always the unexpected. With good humour scattered in and some nices touches, like that sociologist's name from the Children of the Jedi book, it was a nice tie-in.<br />Overall, Outlander's quality of art, dialogue and storyline is just too strong to pass up on, not with so many substandard comcis out there.	2003-10-06
US	34270585	R2ZWDK6DGGO6JK	1569713871	392062528	Blood and Honor (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 7)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A sequel that equals	Following right after In the Empire's Service, Blood and Honor is a comic where interstellar actions takes a temporary backseat for this character-driven tale. From the depths of a debriefing room, now in enemy custody, captured Imperial fighter ace Soontir Fel regales his background---a story of deceit, integrity, romance and inevitability. Dived into two parts---The Making of Baron Fel, and Family Ties---this is one comic that is surprisingly empathic for readers.<br />The art quality is not the shocking excellence of modern fare, but its elegant simplicity conveys all it needs to and more. Frames are uncluttered with extraneous graphics and colouring adds enough three-dimensional texture to curry assent. Dialogue is handled just as well; both tone and wording are perfectly in keeping with a dignified Imperial naval officer.<br />Fel recounts his career with an abundance of character cameos from the Star Wars universe. This was an excellent idea, simply because comics are visual books, providing the reader with a rare look of how some people actually look. Many of these guest appearances were names the reader knows but may never have seen in art, like General Derricote, Syal Antilles, Thrawn and Hal Horn.<br />Palpatine, Tarkin, Isard, Vader and Turr Phennir also cameoed, along with other names from past Rogue Squadron comics. One downside to this fun was Fel's acquaintance with so many of them.<br />The second half of the trade paperback was Family Ties, where Wedge sends three Rogues to Corellia to safeguard Fel's family from Imperial retaliation over his suspected defection. The art here was not as good as the first half, with frames looking too light in detail. The dialogue, however, is vintage Stackpole. And with three new names for show---Corran, Iella and the bumbling Loor---you could almost imagine it was one of his X-wing books!<br />It was great to see how Corran and Iella look like, though Loor doesn't have his infamous Tarkin resemblance. Now that Plourr has her hair back, and enough of it, she just looks great. Wondering where Hobbie's \\"bug bite\\" comment came from in the X-wing book Starfighters of Adumar, you now know. Just a small discrepancy: CorSec uniforms were green-black, not orange here. The ending here, unfortunately, was just too rushed. An extra page of Corran in his emerald X-wing would have made the difference.<br />But that notwithstanding, Blood and Honor is one comic you cannot go without for serious readers in the Rogue Squadron series.	2003-09-30
US	34270585	R1K5BKXZ23JL14	1569713308	635371306	The Warrior Princess (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 4)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Satisfactory but not recommended reading	The Warrior Princess is one Rogue Squadron comic I'm afraid is just satisfactory, not a must purchase. It is not essential reading in this series, in fact, is ideally bought if a discounted half-price copy is available.<br />The title, for starters, is painfully cliched. It brings to mind Xena images. Even later comics, like the Leia Organa story in the Empire series has similar titles, showing just how generic it is.<br />The art is just like Battleground: Tatooine, which I thought of as too light and sketchy. Here, in Eiattu's verdant swamps, it seemed even worse. Most of the new cast were typecast by their personalities: the revolutionary leader was a carbon copy of Earth equivalents, down to the \\"comrade\\" reference to his people; the new Rogues not quite as well presented as they are in later comics.<br />The dialogue was nothing fancy, but at least not the horror Tales of the Jedi was renown for. Plourr here lacks even her hair wig, bringing to mind how long you can look at a bald lady.<br />Having read Masquerade before this, I wondered what Tavira meant by Tycho's actions lost her control of Eiattu, which made her flee offworld. Unless I'm mistaken, I couldn't see what he did here that would have Tavira making that comment. He angered a pro-Imperial noble and escaped from Tavira's custody . . . but that's it. It wasn't he who liberated the world from Imperial ownership.<br />Tavira has better screen time in forthcoming comics, but not here. She's young and awfully cute but just doesn't offer more than the stereotypical Imperial governor scheming away. And if you're sharp enough, you might wonder why Plourr's brother looked too much like Hitler in his younger-years frames---something done, perhaps, just to emphasise his vicious villainy.<br />Only thing really going for The Warrior Princess is Plourr's revelation at the end, what happened behind the curtain of her shattered childhood. Otherwise, this is a comic to be bought for those uninterested in bad art, bland speech, predictable storyline to just complete a collection.	2003-09-30
US	34270585	R9BD5U0WWCSFU	1569715351	860795121	Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi - Redemption	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fitting end to a series	Redemption is the last of the Tales of the Jedi comics, a series that recounted the events during the Great Sith War 4,000yrs ago. Redemption is better read after at least reading Dark Lord of the Sith and The Sith War. The conflicts here are on a personal and emotional level, not another interstellar battle.<br />A decade after the Jedi defeated the Sith reemergence, a fallen Jedi wonders the galaxy for solitude, blind to the Force and searching for absolution for past crimes. But when a young girl decides he's the ideal candidate to tutor the Force to her, and a bitter Jedi wants to hand justice to an unpunsihed war criminal, they find they all have much to learn from each other on a frozen world.<br />The quality of art is much better than the horrible fare Tales of the Jedi is renoun for. While the superb art and vibrant colours inherent in current Star Wars comcis was not available at the time of the TOTJ series, that Redemption was clearly better could have said more for its earlier siblings. Here, you won't find salivating mouths, half-rendered illustrations, or simplistic dialogue. The primary characters have defined roles, where age and events have changed appearances, and an ending that will touch your heart.<br />However, at times there are just too many single, even double, page shots. This flows the pages to the end way too fast. Some panels and scenes were a bit absurd, but the overall quality of this story balances things up. Qel-Droma genuinely looks grey, as though the price of his actions have drained all colour from his features; while young Vima is bright and chirpy, the vengeful Silvar predatory and relentless.<br />I'll never understand why Nomi is half bald for a human woman.<br />Overall, if you've suffered through the earlier comics, this one is a fitting end to the series. And even if further fault is found within, solace can be taken in the fact that we are shown places we rarely have seen, and not yet another Tatooine visit for the twentieth time.	2003-09-29
US	34270585	R2HSKZXOHU50U8	1569714878	817975603	Masquerade (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 8)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An enjoyable read	Masquerade is the second last part in the Rogue Squadron series, and is an enjoyable read.<br />The art is why I rated this one star less, and can best be described as average. It certainly had a cartoonish feel to it, as though it was simply done. Nothing too detailed, but it looked more 2D than three. While the background detail was not lacking and the frames were overall well done, the people just looked a bit \\"flat\\" on the page. That aside, it was still visually appealing and no reason to avoid what is a good purchase.<br />Ah . . . the dialogue, and you'll love it, all right. When Han and Fel pair up for their role in the story they just can't stop their sharp, witty banter! Stackpole did good work there. The scenes when Winter and Tycho are together flow just as smoothly, as does their budding romance. Xarcce offering Chewie help and indignantly saying, yes, he does know which end of hydrospanner is which is one sample of humour you'll find here.<br />All comics have their quirks, though, and the Wedge here looks nothing like his movie counterpart. Tavira has been shown in just as many ways; here she is girlish, petite and beautiful as the sharp blades her lines deliver. But that's all in keeping with the cartoonish style this was done.<br />Admiral Krennal makes his debut here, and doesn't hold back that tempered hospitality of his. Pestage was artfully rendered as always. The framing ranged from large to small, and like its cousin Mandatory Retirement, the scenes ended properly and not in mid-page, as Battleground:Tatooine did, so as not to feel rushed.<br />Overall, Masquerade is not to be missed, and truth be told, the cartoonish feel of the art was still adequate to be but a trivial bother if you're thirsty for top quality. A definite required purchase.	2003-06-23
US	34270585	RHPDJBKA9F8KO	1569712514	122932255	The Phantom Affair (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A spectacular achievement	The second part in the X-wing: Rogue Squadron series, The Phantom Affair is arguably one of the finest comics you could find, and for many reasons.<br />The art quality is simply astounding. Facial features differ with character and emotion. Even the background is not left to waste. Look carefully and you'll see just how much work and creativity there is: how every spare space is utilised, even if it's just to have pedestrians or surface features. The sheer variety of aliens, both familiar and merely exotic, is both appreciated and well done.<br />Dialogue is great. Everyone has a part, everyone contributes to some effect. And if a character has no purpose in that given situation, no problem, give him a witty line and there you go! Plenty of humour will have you smiling; Dllrr asking if the fruit around him is edible, being told it's too hard to eat, and then dropping it on a stormtrooper's head was funny.<br />And there were sneaky touches thrown in. How many of you thought that was George Lucas on p74, the one standing beside a Jawa holding a camera tripod, making a picture frame with his hands? Mirax dusting the step with a leaf before she sits is another.<br />And that page . . . where something suddenly jams the cantina music, that something being a haunting illustration of the Interdictor Cruiser you'll see turn the next page. Simply excellent.<br />The plot sounds straightforward but like all good stories all is not what it seems. Wedge's childhood flashback gives readers a visual link to what they have read in the X-wing books of his past.<br />Just a couple of minor errors though. That starfighter Wedge flies to avenge his parents is not what a Headhunter looks like. Aren't they fixed-wing? This one had X-wing S-foils. And readers may have problems with the wormhole at the end, and how its credulity affects the plot.<br />Be Warned! Make The Phantom Affair your first foray into this comic series and you'll see just why it's so damn good.	2003-06-23
US	34270585	R35Y0BWN7A0WA5	156971276X	992338096	Battleground: Tatooine (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 3)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A good read that could have been better	Battlground: Tatooine is the third part of the X-wing comic series, and you'll see why it has strong ties to the X-wing: The Bacta War novel, and why its description of Huff Darklighter as Huttlike is spot on.<br />After the spectacular art of The Phantom Affair, I found B:T to be shocking. The art has a sketchy, half-finished look that just was unacceptable. After all, people buy comics for the visual aspect, to see what they read. The Twi'lek faces were blurry and hardly varied at all, rendering facial expressions difficult to decipher. Background features were few and far between, and if at all, also vague and fuzzy. Who'd have thought Cazne'olan was that \\"photogenic\\"?<br />Unlike Masquerade and Mandatory Retirement, for example, the flow of frames and scenes were rushed and tumbled one after another. Where a scene should have ended at the bottom of the page, it often concluded mid-page, with the next scene the next immediate frame. While not confusing to follow, it wasn't good.<br />That notwithstanding, the dialogue was as you'd expect from fighter jocks and Intel agents: quick, witty and great, with some truly memorable lines. The Sullustan Rogue head-butting Dendo's  midriff with a \\"They always forget the little people\\" comment just grins your face broad when Dendo knocks him back with a \\"Thanks for reminding me\\". Tycho's exasperation to Winter's indifference to his romancing attempts was another, when she quips how others have worked that out, he just took longer.<br />There were also some excellent touches in this comic: that brief POV from Fortuna's spider-droid perspective was fun, and the way Winter shoves Wedge on the floor at the end funnier still.<br />Overall, aside from what was poor art quality, a fine storyline and commendable dialogue, Kapp Dendo's scenes are just too good to pass up on this Rogue Squadron comic.	2003-06-23
US	34270585	RAEG40S4IZNK1	1569714924	863759822	Mandatory Retirement (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 9)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great end to the series	Mandatory Retirement concludes the Rogue Squadron comic series, and does so with slick action, camaraderie and polish. For those who have the X-wing: Isard's Revenge book, you'll find the backstories of Admiral Krennel and Ms Isard here.<br />The art is worthy of The Phantom Affair in quality, and just as fantastic, certainly above other issues of this series. The background detail in frames are not fuzzy or lacking, and some scenes are actually rendered from creative camera-points.<br />Plenty of characters here, and their interaction is fun and not left to idle. Though the Imperial scenes are short they are adequate. The dialogue is vintage Stackpole; readers of his X-wing books will recognise his style of speech sentence structure. Wedge's face has changed so often per issue you wonder what his cosmetic secret is. It was nice to see all the Rogues having R&R in the beginning, though beware---Wedge and Tycho have bulging muscles without their shirts!<br />The plot is great and never a dull moment. Baron Fel's lines stand out, but it is Pestage that stands out here. He goes from being a pest to a pestilence on everyone's nerves, particularly when you have to protect someone who's your enemy. There are many links to the X-wing books; Krennel's cryptic comment scoffing at studying an enemy's art when a tactical hologram will tell all you need to know is better explained in Isard's Revenge, where Thrawn booted him out of his forces, is one.<br />Other nice touches was Wedge's long eulogy, some sharp lines from General Carvin, and more Dendo scenes; the man likes his cape, doesn't he? Though Salm and Dendo have similar faces, apart from the latter's head horns.<br />Overall, Mandatory Retirement is a great issue and a fitting finale to this series. If you're looking for a comic with good action, dialogue and an actual story, not just a tale, this is the one for you.	2003-06-23
US	34270585	R1QML1X0RU29AI	1569713839	774729045	In the Empire's Service (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 6)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Strap in, and get ready for a ride	In the Empire's Service is one of those parts in the Rogue Squadron series that has healthy doses of action, camaraderie, suspense and a \\"feel\\" to it.<br />The stand alone stories have ended. It's time for Ms Isard to claim the Imperial throne, time for Rogue Squadron to show their flying skills, time for the performance to really kick in. Unlike other issues, this one has a genuine feel to it, where power and politics have some major characters decide the day.<br />The art is similar to Battleground:Tatooine, which I didn't think much of in that issue's review. Here, where you don't have Tatooine and Ryloth deserts to inhibit your artistry, the lush vista of Brentaal saves the day. Character faces just aren't rendered in enough detail, and at times the features in the frames just look a bit small in size.<br />That notwithstanding, Fel makes up in dialogue what his rendered art misses. A brilliant but loyal pilot straddled with a fool for a superior that's too-often semi-attired and looks quite like a roman emperor, you feel for him. The Rogue pilots don't miss out on their lines too, and a range of emotions are showed which help to convey the seriousness and delicacy of the mission.<br />Action is hot and intense, and even though Imperial politics is what allows the Alliance to take more and more of Brentaal, you can bet Fel's going to make them fight for it. This is war, and it reflects well in how the captions were chosen. A level in the N64 Rogue Squadron game was based on the last mission here, so it's fun to view it differently. The Telsij lady you briefly meet---and gasp at---from her sight in Mandatory Retirement is explained here.<br />Dendo is back, armed with his flashy cape and quick-finger trigger. New Rogues are featured to make up for attrition, and you'll like Koyi Komad's interaction with them. Her character, short as her appearances are, just shines out from the page.<br />Overall, the sketchy feel of the art had me rating this a star less, but Inthe Empire's Service is just too good to give any less. It has it all, what you could want, and certainly worthy lightening your purse a few Imperial credits less indeed.	2003-06-23
US	34270585	R3TMBXEDFDF020	0441010067	754948148	Orphans of Earth	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One story that has it all . . .	Orphans of Earth, the second in the Orphans Trilogy, has to be one of the finest novels I have ever read. With all the essential elements to make it so---mystery, suspense, intrigue and action---the only frown would be the long delay release of the trilogy's final book.<br />An understanding of the first book, Echoes, is a prerequisite for Orphans. The vital questions of who the conquering Starfish and mysterious Spinner aliens are continues, spawning new ones as the plot complexifies. The addition of new characters like Axford, a military warhorse with his own agenda, and more engram explorers, only add to the dangerous game of survival for the few remnants of humanity.<br />Then a third alien race comes into play, and the parley of further intrigue, potential allies, and creative mayhem deepens. The vicious Starfish are changing tactics in the systematic hunt for new victims; the engram community is showing signs of political and ideological division; and the inter-character relationships are as energetic as they are tense.<br />But by far the best facet of Orphas are the \\"surprises\\" thrown into the plotline literally every score of pages. Just when the story is settling down, these devious authors add in a new element to the plot to gyrate everything anew.<br />For a book that's heavy on scientific and astronomical lines, the writing has neither hard jargon nor heavy wordage that you would expect from one. The writing style is smooth and the pages flow easily one after another. And the final battle will have you alternatively holding your breath, grinning triumphantly---and in the book's true nature---suddenly frowning disbelief.<br />There are some challenges to reading Orphans, though. As many character names are replicated, knowing who is who and where they are can be confusing at times. Another frustration are terms like merges, urges, senessence, conSense and certain acronyms that only get explained many pages after they appear, or even not at all.<br />In all, Orphans of Earth, while heavy on intrigue and sporadic in action, is a book that is highly recommended for mature readers.	2003-03-01
