US	34281232	RRZM5IRUODNDZ	0399119043	185329865	The FBI pyramid from the inside	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Casting a vote........	This is a vote for \\"The FBI Pyramid\\" to be re-printed.  At the moment, let's see......ONE original copy available, $1995.00  --  No, I don't think so.  :-)    There is much that we can look for in this book. Besides possible clues about Mr. Felt's motivation for being \\"Deep Throat\\" and perhaps even unconscious hints that it was he, we will get a close view of the nature and structure of the FBI and of what he valued about it. I would look particularly for what he said about possible kinds of threats to the authority and functioning of the agency;  it then may not be hard to read between the lines for hints of the threats that Mr. Felt had seen and sensed from the Nixon administration.    But this is all speculation until we get the book ourselves. Please re-print it, and help this postscript of the Watergate story to unfold.	2005-06-12
US	34281232	RLIP6HZRUPWV2	0396075703	632419020	To live again	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Remarkable account of pianist's recovery from brain injury	This book will be of greatest interest to pianists and other musicians, but it is also a rare first-hand account of traumatic brain injury   --   the kinds of symptoms that can occur, the remarkable recovery that can be made, and the persistence of symptoms despite the recovery.    Ms. Trenchi de Bottazzi is a concert pianist who from an early age was a great prodigy. Although she had the somewhat sheltered life of many prodigies, she also had a taste for fast cars, which led her to a tragic accident. She gives a detailed account of the course of her condition, including some infuriating aspects of the medical treatment which would be comical if they were not so sad.    She then talks about her long and arduous road back to the concert stage, which required her to develop new ways of learning and conceptualizing music, since her impairments rendered her old ways impossible. Her experiences in this regard provide an unusual opportunity to appreciate the different ways in which music can be learned and remembered. Most musicians probably \\"sort of\\" know these different ways and use them at different times, but Ms. Trenchi de Bottazzi's account brings them to life.    The account of her early years gives a vivid view of the life of a child prodigy. The book also relates interesting aspects of her family experience, including many insightful observations that ring convincingly true. The author clearly has a great interest in psychology and a good flair for it. As for her own nature, she clearly has a stubborn and defiant streak; it is what has gotten her into trouble, as well as what has enabled her to triumph over it. And she clearly is comfortable with who and what she is, and proud of it. You might question some of it  --  but you will also smile and nod in admiration as well.	2005-04-21
US	34281232	R25GXKW7EF6SJG	1400014077	183753752	Fodor's Caribbean 2005 (Travel Guide)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Much imitated, never quite equaled	Still the best. Comprehensive, well organized, easy on the eyes, easy on the hands, and compact enough to take wherever you go. None of those fancy-schmancy pictures and other graphics that just distract you from what you're looking for. Of course, as with all guidebooks, sometimes the ratings make you wonder what they were smoking at the time; also I could do without those advertisement pages in the middle of the book. DON'T RELY TOO MUCH ON OUTDATED EDITIONS, because of how often places open and close, or are affected by construction, hurricanes, and whatever else, or just change hands (which means the quality can change).	2005-02-13
US	34281232	RMZHDQHL8M66A	B0000BYPNH	34719014	The Essential Canon of Classical Music	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The best book of its kind	A brilliant and fascinating book. This is a comprehensive yet manageable-size history of classical music from medieval times through the present. There is a section for each era with biographies of the major composers, each section prefaced by an excellent framing summary of the general history and cultural context of the period. The knowledge shown by the author, not only on the wide range of music but also on the general historical and cultural aspects, is truly awesome. And unlike many such books, this one pulls no punches. If a composer was an S.O.B., the book tells you about that. If he murdered people in his spare time (e.g. Gesualdo), the book tells you about that.    What I find most fascinating and special about this book is the persistent focus on correlating the composers' achievements with their relationship histories. Again and again, mostly almost in passing, composers' productivity (or lack thereof) is expressed in the context of relationships, marriages, separations, or widowhoods. I am not aware of any other source with such an emphasis. To me, it adds enormously to the narratives and it is the most significant aspect of the book.    Each section is broken down into two portions: First, a succession of chapters on each of the most important composers, then a series of shorter write-ups on \\"other\\" composers of the period. The author does a great job of this. A key aspect of such a book is the relative amount of space each thing is given, totally aside from the actual content; this is perhaps the main factor that conveys a thing's importance and interest. Think about it: When we pick up a book like this, what's the first thing we do? Usually, we thumb through it to see just basically what's in there, rather than exactly what it says. Thus, if such a book is well done, a novice can thumb through it and, within a few minutes, know the major composers and roughly where they stand, just from who's in there and how much space they get. And I believe it would be hard to do a better job of this than Mr. Dubal did. We can always quibble, and indeed there was one particular instance where I wondered why a composer wasn't included: Orlando Gibbons. Obviously not a major thing  --  I mention it only to show how deep you might have to dig to find a quibble.    Actually, one quibble that might be more substantial.......Unless I'm missing something, no female composers at all are featured. I don't know enough to be sure if this is a significant omission, but it would appear to be. Cecile Chaminade, Amy Beach, and Ellen Taaffe Zwilich are examples of composers who might have been included.    The author doesn't hesitate to reveal his biases,  although it's not  clear if he recognizes them as such. For example, in the Borodin chapter, he says it's \\"unfortunate\\" that Borodin's themes  were used in \\"Kismet.\\" But, rip-offs like that were how many of us got introduced to classical music! (Me for example.) And how about this quote from the chapter on Modernism: \\"In the last 50 years, the young have had an unprecedented amount of money to spend, and they have been taught to spend it on bad music.....\\" Many of us probably agree with that, but it certainly shows a bias.    An interesting additional wrinkle (easily overlooked!) is that the illustrations of the composers were done by the author himself.    Most  highly recommended  for people of all levels.	2005-01-21
US	34281232	R1B2BL6U41K1TK	038518283X	814399102	The Hidden Game of Baseball: A Revolutionary Approach to Baseball and Its Statistics	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Great work at the time but since overtaken	This book was great for its time, and it's still very interesting and well worth a look. Contrary to what is said in another review, this book didn't \\"start\\" anything, and Bill James came first. But it was probably the first such comprehensive effort to evaluate and rank the players of all time using \\"sabermetrics,\\" and for some years it remained the main such source and the main reference point for future efforts. I guess the high current prices for the book reflect this.     The methods have basic flaws, which have since been widely pointed out and (I believe) widely acknowledged. For example, the basic unit of measurement is \\"Linear Weights,\\" in which each accomplishment, whether it be a single, home run, putout, assist, or anything else, is given a \\"weight,\\" and then they are added together, and the total is normalized. But, as Bill James pointed out with an elegance that's hard to top, the method was doomed to be painfully limited, because \\"baseball offense isn't linear; it's geometric\\"   --  meaning that the elements of offense combine in a way that goes beyond simply adding them together.    But the main flaw is that being \\"average\\" is used as the center for everything. Everyone is scored according to how far above or below average he is. The problem is that players who are \\"average\\" are assumed to have no value, and are given zero; players who are \\"below average\\" are given negative value. So, if a player has a long and successful career but is found to be \\"below average\\" by the method (example: Bobby Richardson), he winds up with NEGATIVE value, which is as though he's worse than nothing, worse than someone who plays just a couple of innings and gets released. Obviously, this is wrong, even if he truly was below average (which he wasn't). An average player  isn't a zero  --  he has A LOT of value; and even a below-average player can have value. As has been pointed out, pennants are lost every year because of a team's inability to find even just an adequate player for a certain position -- for example, a decent-fielding third baseman who might hit .250 with 10 home runs, or a serviceable #5 starter who can give you some decent innings. This doesn't mean that the ratings are useless. They seem to be fairly good for showing who was better than whom in a given season (although not in the Bobby Richardson example), but not so good for ranking careers. And \\"zero\\" or \\"negative\\" doesn't really mean what it seems to mean.    The methods that are used for rating defense are EXTREMELY flawed and give some odd results, such as that Roy Smalley was one of the great-fielding shortstops of all time, and that Richie Ashburn was better than Willie Mays. But the methods were an important  step toward future advances.    Some of the more recent books, such as Bill James' \\"Historical Abstract\\" and \\"Win Shares,\\" are far more state-of-the-art. But this book remains of interest, for its historical significance and for how it helped to frame the subsequent work on the subject. And, not long from now, we'll probably be talking about how outdated those other two books are too.	2004-12-30
US	34281232	R1OHCANC7631X7	0385182848	418919075	The Hidden Game of Baseball	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Great work at the time but since overtaken	This book was great for its time, and it's still very interesting and well worth a look. It was probably the first such comprehensive effort to evaluate and rank the players of all time using \\"sabermetrics,\\" and for some years it remained the main such source and the main reference point for future efforts. I guess the high current prices for the book reflect this.    The methods have basic flaws, which have since been widely pointed out and (I believe) widely acknowledged. For example, the basic unit of measurement is \\"Linear Weights,\\" in which each accomplishment, whether it be a single, home run, putout, assist, or anything else, is given a \\"weight,\\" and then they are added together, and the total is normalized. But, as Bill James pointed out with an elegance that's hard to top, the method was doomed to be painfully limited, because \\"baseball offense isn't linear; it's geometric\\" -- meaning that the elements of offense combine in a way that goes beyond simply adding them together, plus that each event has an impact on the likelihood of the next event.    But the main flaw is that being \\"average\\" is used as the center for everything. Everyone is scored according to how far above or below average he is. The problem is that players who are \\"average\\" are assumed to have no value, and are given zero; players who are calculated to be below average are given \\"negative value.\\" So, if someone has a long and successful career but is found to be below average (example: Bobby Richardson), he winds up with \\"negative value,\\" which is as though he's worse than nothing, worse than someone who plays just a couple of innings and gets released. Obviously, this is wrong, even if he truly was below average (which Richardson wasn't). An average player  isn't a zero  --  he has A LOT of value; and even a below-average player can have value. As has been pointed out, pennants are lost every year because of a team's inability to find even just an adequate player for a certain position --for example, a decent-fielding third baseman who might hit .250 with 10 home runs, or a serviceable #5 starter who can give you some decent innings. This doesn't mean that the ratings are useless. They seem to be fairly good for showing who was better than whom in a given season (although not in the Bobby Richardson example), but not so good for ranking careers. And \\"zero\\" or \\"negative\\" doesn't really mean what it seems to mean.    The methods that are used for rating defense are EXTREMELY flawed and give some odd results, such as that Roy Smalley was one of the great-fielding shortstops of all time and that Richie Ashburn was better than Willie Mays. But the methods were an important step toward future advances.    Some of the more recent books, such as Bill James' \\"Historical Abstract\\" and \\"Win Shares,\\" are far more state-of-the-art. But this book remains of interest, for its historical significance and for how it helped to frame the subsequent work on the subject. And, not  long from now, we'll probably be talking about how outdated those other two books are too.	2004-12-30
US	34281232	RHJPZ8RDZNO4B	141271110X	618114848	2005 Cars (Consumer Guide: Cars)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Unique and extremely useful	One of the most useful car references for the average buyer. Gives the basic info about each car: Prices (including \\"invoice price,\\" i.e. dealer's cost), available options, most of the basic specifications, any new features or other changes, pros and cons of the car, and similar cars to consider.    The guide's most interesting feature is the rating of each car on a 10-point scale in each of 10 categories, including just about everything you might think of. Besides the numerical score, there's a little 2- or 3-sentence write-up on each category. Putting it all together, you get an extremely vivid (and accurate) impression of the car. Also, the format makes it easy to compare different cars very specifically, on whatever criteria you wish. I am not aware of any other source that allows such easy and comprehensive comparisons.    Three criticisms:    (1) The biggest problem is that the rating scale is not very intuitive, and  very prone to misinterpretation. In short: The scores in general are better than they look. For example, how does 65 out of 100 sound? Not very good, right? But actually it's an EXTRAORDINARY score. For most classes of cars, anything over 60 is great, and in some classes even 50 is very good. It helps that the range of scores for each \\"class\\" is indicated, but still, the scores are easily misunderstood.    (2) Many people might feel there's an overemphasis on \\"practical\\" aspects, at the expense of things like luxury and performance. For example, one of the top scoring cars is the Toyota Camry, higher than any BMW or Mercedes or Porsche and higher than all but one Lexus. It's not because of any misjudgments, but because of what the rating categories consist of. For example, the final category, \\"Value Within Class,\\" sort of penalizes a car for being more expensive. But, the practical emphasis may well suit most people's interests. (And the little write-ups under that last category, \\"Value Within Class,\\" are wonderful little summaries of each car, perhaps the best that can be found anywhere.) But this does mean that you can't get a truly accurate picture by looking just at a car's total score  --  you need to look at the individual categories to see what's really going on.    (3) There's no information on \\"reliability.\\" If you're interested in that, you need to supplement this guide with another one, such as Consumer Reports.    But still.....very highly recommended. The pluses far outweigh the minuses, and are unequaled anywhere else. And the breakdowns and descriptions are so interesting that the guide makes for some nice reading even if you're not buying a car right now.	2004-11-30
US	34281232	R2UJRBOGCN8YE6	0743261585	110003933	The Neyer/James Guide to Pitchers: An Historical Compendium of Pitching, Pitchers, and Pitches	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An underrated and terrific book	I judge a book not by what it doesn't have, but what it DOES have. And this book has all the things you'd expect in another great book from Bill James or Rob Neyer. <br /> <br />It has information you can't find anywhere else and probably never thought you could. Where else could you find accounts of exactly HOW all these pitchers pitched, all in one volume? It's the result of a decade of research by the two authors and their assistants. <br /> <br />In additional to the basic information, there are the usual essays, plus the usual Bill James digressions and asides. It's all very well organized. There's no trouble knowing where to find what you want. <br /> <br />And, as usual, it makes you THINK, and it makes you realize things that are relevant not just to baseball but to everything. One of the opening chapters focuses on how much the subject depends on linguistics and vocabulary, and how we might think a source tells us something but it doesn't really, because we don't understand the meanings of the words and phrases that are being used. Usually this is because the language has evolved over time, but sometimes it's because the language is used arbitrarily or sloppily. This is true about \\"knuckleballs\\" and \\"sliders\\" and \\"curves.\\" But we readily realize that it can apply to anything. <br /> <br />The introductory chapter includes some duelling between the authors about things, some of which would seem to be \\"facts\\" but which are hard to pin down. It's interesting to see how much remains debatable about such a seemingly straightforward subject, even after years of research, and how much it will forever be arguable. <br /> <br />Especially interesting is the material about how the mechanics and strategy of pitching have evolved over the years, and WHY. In most instances there were specific reasons and fairly clear dividing lines for the major changes. <br /> <br />My one criticism would be that the content is indeed a bit erratic. One of the book's purposes is to catalog any noteworthy idiosyncrasies of a pitcher's style. But I notice that on some of the guys with the very most famous idiosyncrasies, you find nothing or almost nothing. For example, there's nothing about what Al Hrabosky was famous for, and almost nothing about Luis Tiant's hilarious mannerisms. <br /> <br />Still.....highly recommended for Bill James/Rob Neyer fans, and for anybody who enjoys interesting baseball material that's unlike what you've ever seen. <br />	2004-09-11
US	34281232	R3IYMELKABV3YI	0385413025	848110713	Guide to Sonatas: Music for One or Two Instruments	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Nice little book, but limited and a bit erratic	I enjoyed this book and learned much from it, and it may well be the best such compact resource on the subject. However, it has significant limitations. I don't think you'll get much out of most portions of the text except where you already know the particular piece and have it in your head, in which case you don't really need the book for it. Some of the material would be useful as \\"emergency program notes,\\" such as if you find yourself listening to a piece on the radio and you want to read something about it, but I think most of the material is only mildly useful for such a purpose because it is too brief and limited. (I imagine that the actual program notes that  Mr. Berger writes are more extensive.) And while the manner in which themes and sections are described is often quite excellent, in some instances I would barely recognize the theme or section from how it is described. Also, I would caution the reader that there are some outright errors  --  I quickly noted two errors in the short chapter on Chopin.    A key aspect of such a book is the relative amount of space each thing is given, totally aside from the actual content; this is perhaps the main factor that conveys a thing's importance and interest. I think in most instances Mr. Berger does a very good job of this, but there seem to be some striking instances to the contrary. One example is the short shrift given to the last movement of Beethoven's \\"Tempest\\" sonata. Also I can't help noting that this movement is one of the pieces that seems to be mischaracterized. Such things are highly subjective of course, but I believe most readers would share these impressions and would feel that these aspects are more of a problem here than in most such books.    Do I regret buying the book? Not at all. I was looking for an interesting little book, and I got one. The material is well organized, there is much to enjoy and learn here (especially in those portions where you have the pieces in your head), and if you're looking for what I was looking for, you'll get it. And despite the book's shortcomings, it may well be the best such compact resource on the subject. Could it have been done better?  Absolutely. In particular, it seems that the book might have benefited from some more careful and critical editing. I think an editor who was at all knowledgeable on the subject and who put himself in the place of the reader would have readily picked up on the noted shortcomings.    I don't agree that the book would be a particularly useful resource for writing program notes. For such a purpose, ideally the writer should study the music independently, but if he wishes to rely on a source, it should be a more extensive and reliable one.	2004-09-07
US	34281232	R2W8B2DYURC46U	0890439893	257660791	New Car Buying Guide 2004 (Consumer Reports New Car Buying Guide)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THE best car-buying guide for 95% of us	Unless you're into super-performance or the finer points of car technology, Consumer Reports is your best resource, and probably the only resource you need. On any car that you want to check, Consumer Reports tells you clearly what type of car it is and who it's for, how reliable it has been, how satisfied its customers have been, and how much it holds its value. There's also data and commentary on performance, plus other \\"specs,\\" definitely enough for 95% of us but not as much as in the \\"harder-core\\" car publications. So if you're an extreme car enthusiast, you may be disappointed. But Consumer Reports does an excellent job of including the things that the great majority of people are likely to want to see  --  and to be able to understand! Much of the material in the \\"harder-core\\" publications is Greek to us, right? And in fact, some of the technical material in Consumer Reports is likewise, but not so much that it's intimidating. I think it's just enough to help you stretch your technical knowledge, without turning your brain to mush.    Consumer Reports is renowned for its \\"reliability\\" ratings, and indeed this information is probably the most valuable and most distinctive part of what CR does on cars. The ratings are presented in a form that's easy to learn and easy to grasp at a glance. A good reliability rating doesn't guarantee that the car you get will be good, but it definitely stacks the deck in your favor.    An aspect of the \\"reliability\\" system that Consumer Reports doesn't get enough credit for is how excellent are its criteria for defining and determining reliability. Some other organizations (including very well known ones) use criteria that have little to do with what most of us mean by \\"reliability\\"  --  their surveys focus mainly on \\"number of complaints,\\" regardless of how significant the complaints are. For example, complaints about rattles, or radio reception, or about wishing the car had more power, get counted as problems and count against the car. (Often those organizations don't use the word reliability but some other term like \\"quality,\\" but the media and the public usually don't get the distinction.) Consumer Reports focuses on problems more related to the basic functioning of the car, which is what most of us are more concerned about.    Consumer Reports is also renowned for being perhaps the most objective and neutral evaluator of products, beyond the influence of manufacturers and other interested parties. From what I've ever been able to tell, the reputation is well deserved.    The one quibble that I have with their car ratings is that they seem perhaps to lean a little too much toward practicality and don't show enough appreciation for certain kinds of upgrades. For example, they tend toward the idea that paying extra for a Mercury Mountaineer over a Ford Explorer is a waste, likewise an Acura over a Honda or a Lexus over a Toyota. But once you realize that apparent bias, you can just take it into account in making your own decisions. And besides, there's a lot to be said for practicality.	2004-09-02
US	34281232	R1AQY8906QX2LE	1563634724	115350909	Physician's Desk Reference with CDROM	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Indispensable but continues to be highly flawed	The PDR is indispensable  --  I'd be lost without it  --  but it's highly flawed, and I can't  believe that after all these years, they can't figure it out and do a better job. I don't think it would be that hard.    Some aspects of the format are problematic. It's hard to find certain things, and often you won't see what you're looking for even if you land on the right paragraph. Some examples:    (1) For some reason, side effects are divided between two or more different sections of each article. I'm sure there's some logic to this, but it certainly isn't evident, and it makes it much harder to find out what we want to know.    (2) Some important sections -- for example, \\"Drug Interactions\\" -- are hard to find, no matter how experienced you are with the PDR. One solution would be to have boldface headings for such sections.    (3) How often have you wanted to find \\"half-lives\\" of a medication and perhaps its metabolites, and how often have you actually found them? They are there, but they're buried. Something as important as this should certainly be highlighted, perhaps in tabular form.    The sad fact is that unless you're quite persistent, you often won't find a lot of what you're looking for when you open the PDR, even though it's there.    Some other flaws are probably unavoidable. For example, despite the fact that seemingly anything and everything is mentioned as a possible side effect for every medication, common side effects sometimes are not mentioned at all. Also, oftentimes some of the major uses for a given medication are not mentioned. These problems aren't the fault of the publisher. The first reflects failures of the medical literature in general   --  if a side effect isn't mentioned prominently in the literature, it might not find its way into the PDR. The second reflects the fact that many correct usages of medications are not officially approved.    Some caveats for consumers: The listed dosage ranges for any given medication are sometimes too limited. Lower or higher dosages may be right for some people.  And also, do beware of those endless lists of possible side effects. Remember that these aren't necessarily things that will happen; they only MIGHT happen. (Many of them rarely if ever happen, at least in terms of their being caused by the medications.) And sometimes the lists fail to include things that DO happen! If you are convinced that a medication has done something to you and it's not mentioned in the PDR, you still could very well be right. But, don't assume that something IS happening just because it IS mentioned on that endless list!    It's hard to express a simple overall assessment of the PDR. The book is an important reference, but it's hard to understand that the publisher hasn't figured out how to do a better job. Maybe they'll read this page and finally do it.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------	2004-08-07
US	34281232	RGZ8U1W0VCZRC	0634011995	511740113	New Pictures at an Exhibition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A "modern" piece that brings the house down	Like Mussorgsky's great composition with the similar name, Seymour Bernstein's \\"New Pictures at an Exhibition\\" is a group of pieces inspired by paintings. While Mussorgsky used pictures that were basically unknown and frankly disappointing, Mr. Bernstein selected great paintings by famous artists, including Picasso's \\"Guernica,\\" Raphael's \\"La Belle Jardiniere,\\" and Watteau's \\"Mezzetin.\\" The music shows a wide range of styles and influences, embracing essentially everything from Baroque through jazz. I once performed one of these pieces as an encore (the Raphael piece, entitled \\"The Madonna\\"), without stating the composer, then asked the audience to \\"vote\\" on who they thought the composer was. The winner was Chopin by a landslide, with Bach second.     There's quite a bit of humor in some of the pieces too. \\"The Twittering Machine\\" (Klee) is a riot, and you'll also smile over \\"At The Moulin Rouge\\" (Toulouse-Lautrec).      When studied seriously and performed well, these pieces are extremely effective in recital. I often perform the final two pieces as a set (the stormy and spectacular \\"Guernica,\\" followed by the sublime \\"Epilogue\\"), and audiences invariably are blown away.      Most of the pieces are very demanding technically but some of them can be played by students of any level. Each piece also has its own poem, written by the pianist/poet/psychiatrist Owen Lewis. The most complete \\"multi-media\\" performance of the set would include recitation of the poems and display (or projection) of the pictures, although pure performance of the music is fine. In my opinion, the best experience is to dispense with the poems, wonderful though they are, and to work with just the music and projections of the pictures. It is well worth coordinating this with the hall's tech people. If they dim the lights \\"just right\\" before you start playing, then project each painting right before you start each piece, the effect can be mesmerizing.      The printed score is a beautiful little booklet. A mild complaint is that the paintings are shown just in black-and-white, but I'm sure this helps keep the cost as modest as it is. If you have even half a thought to get this music, please do. It may be the best $15 you'll ever spend on a piano score.	2004-07-28
US	34281232	R11G02OUL4MELD	0962723800	93977459	An anchor for the future: A history of the Medical College of Wisconsin, 1893-1990	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great interest for Marquette/MCW alums	Dr. Engbring has created a true treasure for Marquette/MCW alums and all others with an interest in the school. What a labor of love it must have been. The book is extremely well written and well organized, and it appears to be frank and comprehensive. I thought that I was quite aware of the goings-on during the period that I was at the school, but this book sheds much new light even on things that I thought I knew well. If you have had any significant involvement with the school, you are bound to find this book of interest. And for a book of this type, it's actually a great read! Highly recommended.	2004-07-15
US	34281232	R32V3B2QJX8BMB	1592280153	232340552	Paper Lion: Confessions of a Last-String Quarterback	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Stray notes on a classic book	This classic book is the story of a \\"regular guy\\" who was allowed to try playing professional football (sort of) and lived to tell about it. Some stray notes:    (1) He wasn't really a \\"regular guy.\\" Firstly he was someone who was in a position where he could actually get the opportunity to work out with a pro football team and get into an intra-squad game. And  he could REALLY PLAY, a fact that is rarely recognized. It's not that he was exactly on the NFL level  --  he wasn't. But, he was good enough that he could sort of play with those guys, which very few of us could, and good enough that the \\"real\\" players couldn't tell that he wasn't legit. (They didn't know his real story for a while.) They could tell he wasn't great and they didn't think he was going to stick with the team, but nobody thought he wasn't for real or that his presence was ridiculous. And this despite his being 35 years old, an age at which even most \\"real\\" players can't hang in there any more.    (2) However, from the book it is clear that there were times that the players regarded his utterances as ridiculous, without there being any indication that Mr. Plimpton realized it. I wonder if he ever did. A good example is some of the things he was prattling about on the bench during the intra-squad game.    (3) This book is perhaps the first such intimate portrayal of the life and routine of pro football pre-season camp.    A great and classic book. Thank you, Mr. Plimpton, and rest in peace. And by the way you really could play football.	2004-03-07
US	34281232	R254RBWNB9IYGW	0816013624	251072587	Players' Choice: Major League Baseball Players Vote on the All Time Greats	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Baseball greats  --  ranked by the players themselves	The authors mailed surveys to living players (in the mid-1980's), and they received many, many responses. The players were asked to select a &quot;first&quot; and &quot;second&quot; all-time team of players at each position, as well as an all-time defensive team; and also to pick players for many other categories such as &quot;Best fastball,&quot; &quot;Best breaking ball&quot; (etc.), &quot;Best pinch-hitter,&quot; &quot;Most underrated,&quot; and, one of the most interesting categories, &quot;Never reached his potential.&quot; We are given the complete slate of answers by many of the well-known players who responded,  as well as the full list of responders. The authors do an excellent job of presenting and commenting on the results, and so the book isn't just a compilation of surveys  --  it's a nice piece of baseball literature.<br />As might be expected, the rankings are slanted toward the more-recent players, since the responders were predominantly more-recent players (for obvious reasons) and they tended to select players they saw. However, a considerable number of old-timers also participated, and many of the more recent players did also select players from earlier eras  --  so, to a good extent the results reflect baseball's entire history. Some of the rankings are quite different from what we find in other books, but in no instance did I find myself thinking the rankings were &quot;bad&quot; or &quot;wrong&quot;; it was more like, &quot;Hey, I didn't realize that!&quot; The results, and the authors' discussion of them, seem to bear out that the players themselves really do know best.<br />This book was a great effort,  and it is a unique contribution to the baseball history literature.	2004-01-22
US	34281232	RUS8AMXGAZ5RL	0918728312	709388679	Who Wrote the Mozart Four-Wind Concertante	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Brilliant musical analysis  --  and sleuthing!	This wonderful book is an excellent analysis of Mozart's Sinfonia Concertante for winds, making a convincing case that the usual version of this not-very-familiar work is not authentic Mozart but an adaptation. It is in the tradition of authenticity analysis that has been applied to Shakespeare's canon, or, more recently, that revealed &quot;Primary Colors&quot; to have been written by Joe Klein. Levin does a fascinating and brilliant job. It will be most appreciated by people with musicology knowledge or a keen interest in Mozart. If you happen to know and love this piece, as I do, I'd have to say this book is a MUST  --  I promise you won't regret it.<br />At the end portion, the book takes a turn into &quot;whodunit&quot; sleuthery. Levin thinks out loud about what characteristics the real composer would have had to possess, then asks if there was such a person. And, with effective drama, he says, &quot;There was.&quot;  He then makes the case for a minor composer named Boely   --  before modestly offering arguments against the theory. Well, I'm still convinced  --   I say it was indeed Boely. (Great job, Mr. Levin!)<br />Mr. Levin has composed a marvelous &quot;reconstructed&quot; version of the piece, which I have had the pleasure of hearing in live performance. Levin makes no pretense that his version is the &quot;true&quot; one; he intended only to provide an impression of what the original version might have been like. And the differences from the usual version are fascinating.	2004-01-22
US	34281232	R15ACW57P80UXH	0451183347	287766888	Strike Zone	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Neat just to see a novel by Bouton	Yes, it's neat just to see a novel by Bouton.....and it's a good effort. The chapters are alternately from the points of view of the pitcher (a barely-fictionalized version of Bouton himself) and umpire. This fading veteran pitcher has been chosen to pitch the pennant-deciding game, and the umpire, a veteran about to retire, is trying to throw the game against him. If you're a baseball fan, and especially if you're a Bouton fan, you'll be carried along nicely.    Some of the players are given actual players' names, and one of the neat things is......well, I'm editing out some of what I originally had here, because it was sort of a \\"spoiler\\" and I guess some people didn't like that!! Let's just say that an \\"actual\\" player has a role in the outcome of the big game.    Recommended for baseball fans, and a must for Bouton fans.	2003-12-24
US	34281232	R2WQW44ZLN5Z9F	0816160147	372389225	I'm Glad You Didn't Take it Personally	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A must for Bouton fanatics	We can't expect this to be as great as Ball Four, and it's not. But on the other hand, it's something that Ball Four isn't, and couldn't have been  --    a celebration and epilogue of the phenomenon that was Ball Four. After all, at the time that &quot;B4&quot; was written, there wasn't any phenomenon  --   it was just another baseball manuscript, maybe wasn't even going to be published. But it became a surprise best-seller and a huge STORY, and this second book tells the story of that story.<br />Some of the most interesting and delightful portions of this book are the reviews and letters about Ball Four. And expert comments. For example, Willie Mays: &quot;I don't read them kind of books.&quot;<br />If you loved Ball Four, you'll revel in this book. If you merely liked &quot;B4,&quot; skip this one.	2003-12-23
US	34281232	R23VPW1FHSHU6H	0671638378	381544401	The Great Pianists: From Mozart to the Present	Books	5	36	38	N	N	AN ALL-TIME GREAT BOOK	Mr. Schonberg has passed away this week. He will be missed, but he will live on for us through his wonderful glorification of pianism and its history. I originally reviewed this book last December, but with his passing I felt compelled to revisit it.<br />As a follower of the piano scene for many years, I must say that this book is THE one that you need to have. Its approach and tone reflect a glorification, awe, and love of pianism and its history. Some have alleged that the facts aren't always quite right, and for sure questionable opinions are sometimes presented as though they were clear fact; but the thrust and the narrative are so great that it hardly matters. Some reviews on this site complain that certain subjects should have been given more space; but, INSTEAD OF WHAT?? There's no wasted space in this book, either the original version or the update. If the reviewers mean that the book should have been LONGER, well, I would love it to have been longer, and I bet that Mr. Schonberg would have been glad to oblige. <br />Much of the book consists of the author's commentary on recordings by pianists of yesteryear. I always had the idea that his initial inspiration for the book may have been his love of listening to old recordings and the wish to share his impressions of them. In my first Amazon review of this book, I wondered whether anybody knows if this is true. Secretly I hoped that Mr. Schonberg himself might see that, and give us the answer.  Well, the time for that is past. Anyway, wouldn't we ALL love to have spent a few months (or years) just listening to those old 78's?<br />Ruht wohl, Mr. Schonberg.	2003-07-29
US	34281232	R6YTJ5J6XP3BZ	0062720252	799923524	Baseball's Greatest Quotations	Books	5	7	7	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST  GIFTS I EVER  GOT	A true delight! Arranged alphabetically by person. This collection of baseball quotations is utterly comprehensive; it's doubtful there's anything that you'll find to be missing here. If you want to see all the \\"Berraisms,\\" they're here. Stengelese? Likewise. I put the book to the test by looking up all kinds of quotes. For example: I remember when Reggie was bragging about his 160 IQ and Mickey Rivers said, \\"Out of what, a thousand?\\" And, sure enough, that quote is in here. I did stump the book a couple of times, but I had to try awfully hard. If there is any criticism of the book, it would be that it's TOO comprehensive, to the point that some of the quotes arguably aren't  worth having been included; but, when it comes to this kind of thing, better too much than not enough.<br /><br />Besides the expected baseball personalities, you'll find interesting quotes also from surprising sources like Philip Roth, Senator Eugene McCarthy  --  and Dagwood.	2003-04-12
US	34281232	ROZDBBTCEPEQM	1563634457	45797413	Physicians' Desk Reference 2003 (Physicians' Desk Reference (Pdr))	Books	3	18	19	N	N	NECESSARY, BUT LIMITED  --  AND DIFFICULT TO USE WELL	I use the  PDR all the time  --  I'd be lost without it  --  but this is a book that's easy to MIS-use. Much of the material is tough-going, such as how the medications work and how they may interact. To some extent this is unavoidable, but......even after all these years, the publisher hasn't figured out that some aspects of the format are quite poor. For example, what would be so hard about putting things like \\"half-lives\\" of medications in tabular form, or some other \\"eye-friendly\\" thing, so they could be seen at a glance??? And in general, if you're looking for a particular thing, even if you land on the right paragraph there's a good chance you won't see it. Also, for some reason, the side effects for any given medication are divided between two or more different sections of the article.<br /><br />  Most astonishingly, despite the fact that the PDR tends to list anything and everything as a possible side effect for every medication, some common side effects are simply not mentioned at all. And, oftentimes some of the major uses for a given medication are not mentioned. These two problems aren't the fault of the publisher; the first reflects failures of the medical literature in general and the second reflects the fact that many correct usages of medications are not officially approved. Also the listed dosage ranges are sometimes too limited; lower or higher dosages may be right for some people.<br /><br /> So, don't  regard the PDR as the last word. Above all, don't take too seriously the endless lists of possible side effects. Remember that these aren't necessarily things that WILL happen; they MIGHT happen.  And remember that the lists usually include a lot of things that rarely if ever happen  --  yet sometimes fail to include things that DO happen. If you are convinced that a medication has done something to you, and the effect is NOT mentioned in the PDR, you're still probably right. But, don't assume that something IS happening just because it IS mentioned in the PDR!R!	2003-04-10
US	34281232	R5AVAS4PU73AC	1400010292	762327904	Fodor's Caribbean 2003	Books	5	6	6	N	N	OFTEN IMITATED, NEVER QUITE EQUALLED	Still the best. Comprehensive, well organized, easy on the eyes, easy on the hands, and compact enough to take with you wherever you go. None of those fancy-schmancy pictures and other graphics that just distract you from what you're looking for.  Of course, as with all guidebooks, sometimes the ratings make you wonder what they were smoking at the time; also I could do without those advertisement pages in the middle of the book. Don't rely too much on outdated editions, because of how often places open and close, or change hands (and,  therefore,  quality), or show effects of recent factors like construction or hurricanes.	2003-04-10
US	34281232	R16MUTJB6Y2V66	0316104299	783382623	The Great American Baseball Card Flipping, Trading and Bubble Gum Book	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A forever treasure	Beautiful, brilliant and witty. Once you have the book, you'll never forget it, and you'll probably keep wanting to show parts of it to fellow fans. However, in the name of humor, the book is a little cruel to some players  --  for example, &quot;Hal Griggs was to pitching as Wayne Causey was to hitting  --  that is to say, nothing.&quot; Even as a kid I was made uncomfortable by things like that. But, some of those things, I just LOVED, like the teasing about how ugly Don Mossi was and about how lousy a hitter Hank Aguirre was (&quot;...I mean to tell you, he couldn't even come close...&quot;).  So, where should they have drawn the line? Heck if I know. Also, the book seems to show a bias toward players from Boston and Philadelphia, giving them more space than they deserve, and a lot more kindness. But actually I enjoyed that, since, as a New Yorker, I've always been embarrassed about the disproportionate attention that is usually given to the Yanks and Mets. It's nice to see a couple of other towns getting their turn.	2003-02-05
US	34281232	R1JD5QTE1Z5SDS	038512290X	725763363	Joe Dimaggio: A Biography	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Darn good sports biography	Way better than you'd probably expect of a sports biography, especially from the era when this was written (1956). Good account of DiMaggio's early history and family background, very good blow-by-blow of the 56-game hitting streak. Vivid accounts of Joe's sufferings from injuries and dramatic comebacks from them. There are many direct quotes from players, including Joe  --   not commentaries on events and controversies (as we'd get today), but just routine things that they said while just hanging out. The book has some quaint faults that are expectable in a sports book from that era. At times, meaningless details are mentioned as though they were important and of interest just because they pertain to baseball heroes; for example, we learn that Bill Dickey ordered tea and toast for breakfast. And sometimes the writer seems to believe that the main element of interest about an event was the question of what the newspaper writers would say (&quot;scribes,&quot; he calls them). But, the book has an overall grace and dignity befitting its subject. Overall, worthwhile and even somewhat revealing. I first read this book as a child, and it was somewhat responsible for my becoming hooked on baseball and its history.	2003-02-05
US	34281232	R1DENZLR7V7TFK	038089694X	151163866	Aaron to Zipfel (Avon sports)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific baseball nostalgia	A worthy sequel to \\"Aaron to Zuverink,\\" which was a \\"Where-Are-They-Now\\" on baseball players of the 1950's; this one covers the '60's. The stories are sometimes impressive, sometimes poignant or unfortunate, and always interesting. As in the first volume, the authors include material from interviews with some of the players, also many curious statistical tidbits (like, \\"so-and-so was the third of three children, and in his first year in the majors he had 3 triples, and in his best year he hit .333\\"). Some of the items include little references to contemporary events which help to frame the material of the book. You'll find yourself wishing for additional sequels for the '70's and '80's, and you'll be in awe of the authors' research. By the way, in this volume's title, \\"Aaron\\" actually refers to TOMMY, not Henry!!	2003-02-05
US	34281232	R3HNWKMXCWI0TL	0380684454	463665277	Aaron to Zuverink	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific baseball nostalgia	The research that went into this book, a &quot;Where-Are-They-Now&quot; on baseball players of the 1950's, must have been incredible. This is a great read  --  either reading it straight through, or just picking it up and opening to random pages, or looking up a particular player that you're wondering about. In some instances the items about the players include material from interviews with the players themselves. The items often include amusing little references to events from the years when the players broke into the majors. One sometimes-annoying aspect is the authors'  obsession with cute statistical coincidences  --  like, &quot;so-and-so player was born in 1922, and in so-and-so year he hit 22 home runs and made 22 errors, and in his final season he hit .222&quot;  --  but, I must admit, I kind of got into it after a while. A great little tidbit is that the book ends by noting that there was one player (Jim Baumer) who played a few major league games in 1949 and a few more in 1961  --  but missed the whole decade of the '50's (stuck in the minors, we must guess). As the authors say, he must wonder, just like the rest of us, where the '50's went. Beautiful!	2003-02-05
US	34281232	R3E80A1UDUN0SJ	0688044891	478906276	Mitts: A celebration of the art of fielding	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A charming labor of love	Delightful and probably unique, if not great; if you're a baseball history nut, you'll appreciate this book. The author's nostalgic love of the game and its history spills off every page.  You'll feel like you're listening to the reminiscences of someone's dear grandfather. Alas, the work is spotty:  picturesque, well-written episodes alternate with throwaway stuff, such as lengthy stream-of-consciousness listings of basically \\"Guys I remember who were pretty good plus a bunch of other guys who maybe weren't half bad that I thought I'd mention too because I liked them.\\"  But, not to worry  --  if you're into it, you won't mind. After all, I didn't.	2003-01-01
US	34281232	R3G7GVLHR537FE	0394739574	559671439	Rugs to Riches: An Insider's Guide to Buying Oriental Rugs, Revised & Updated Edition	Books	4	20	21	N	N	MORE THAN JUST ABOUT RUGS . . .	What I mean is, the book is full of vignettes that illustrate basic points about shopping  --  AND EVEN ABOUT NEGOTIATING !!  --  things that are obvious once you think about them, but which you might never have realized.  My favorite example:  Suppose you see a rug with a price tag of a certain amount, and you say to the salesperson, \\"The most I'd pay is [such-and such]\\"  --  well, what you've really just said, without knowing it, is that the amount you said is THE LEAST you're going to pay, not \\"the most,\\" because you've shown that you're willing to pay it and that you can. It's a useful kind of thing to be aware of for any deal you might ever be involved in, whether as buyer or seller. I'm sure you could get things like this from Donald Trump's books, but it's interesting that they're here too.      The book gives an EXCELLENT overview of oriental rugs. The writing  and organization are excellent. You'll learn about the main types of rugs, and how to recognize them  --  and how to match and combine rugs. Even in the most elegant settings, we often see POOR combinations;  this book gives good, easily-applied guidelines for doing a GOOD job of this.       Some readers criticize the book's pricing guidelines  --  but actually they're quite good and very useful, as long as you realize their limitations. Yes, they're simplistic, and the projected rates of appreciation were recognizably absurd even at the time the book was written. (By those formulas,  most rugs before long would have attained the value of Fort Knox.) So, the author was a bit innumerate, and anyone who purchased rugs assuming infinite price appreciation has been disappointed. Blame the author? Maybe a little.	2002-12-25
US	34281232	R37VVU9TCVPSMU	0806513500	315215881	The 100: A Ranking Of The Most Influential Persons In History	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A PAINLESS HISTORY OF EVERYTHING	You can see that even those who hate the book have spent time with it and have been inspired to serious thought by it. I've been in awe of this book for years, and I'm gratified that the feeling is shared by many. The book provides a vision of how our world got to be this way, and how it might perhaps be different had it not been for certain individuals. And what an impressive effort this is; writing such a book required a rare breadth of knowledge, covering the fields of religion, political and military history, science, philosophy, and all the arts, plus the spark to approach history in this different way.       Even if you love the book and even if you agree with almost everything in it, you're still bound to find flaws.The JFK thing is a nice microcosm of what is great, what is weak, and what is controversial about the book. JFK's inclusion is ridiculed by many readers, and we can easily see that they have a point  --  but so does Mr. Hart, who may well be right that the moon landing will forever be one of the very-most-remembered events of the century; BUT EVEN SO, isn't he breaking his basic \\"rule\\" here, by emphasizing something other than INFLUENCE? Being remembered does not necessarily equal influence.       Yes, sometimes he loses his focus, more so in the revised edition. Perhaps the most salient example is his insistence on referring to Shakespeare as Edward de Vere and his devoting considerable space to the argument that de Vere was the real author. Even if one agrees with him on this point (as I do), this book isn't the place for it. You get the feeling that maybe by the time of the revised edition, Hart no longer had such a consuming interest in the original project and couldn't help himself from going off in other directions.      But it's all forgiveable. This book is great, and unique (notwithstanding the many knock-offs). You'll pick it up again and again, you'll think about it,  you'll argue about it  --  and you'll have a great time.	2002-12-24
US	34281232	R3RT40G51NRLS8	0841502994	120178021	Me and the Spitter;: An Autobiographical Confession	Books	5	8	8	N	N	AMONG THE BEST BASEBALL AUTOBIOGRAPHIES	Well written, moves along nicely, sounds like it really is Gaylord talking, and has lots of good material about the spitter. Written in mid-career. One very interesting tidbit is the story of his first time throwing the spitter in a major league game, because it's a game that many of us old-timers remember for a different reason: it was the 23-inning game in 1964 between the Giants and Mets, which I think was also the first-ever extra-inning game at Shea Stadium. I remember that I noted at the time what a great relief job Gaylord did -- he pitched the last 9 or 10 innings -- but of course we didn't know about the secret subplot. (The losing pitcher, a guy with a similar first name, Galen Cisco, also pitched the equivalent of a complete game and also did a great job.) Gaylord was then a marginal young pitcher on the verge of getting shipped out, and he had to do SOMETHING; I guess we'd have to say it worked. In the end portion of the book, he explains that he had stopped putting anything illegal on the ball and that he was able to get it to do the same tricks just by using his perspiration. But, of course, who really knows?	2002-12-23
US	34281232	R19R6L1APG196O	1563056267	242468132	How to Make Your Man Behave in 21 Days or Less Using the Secrets of Professional Dog Trainers	Books	5	29	44	N	N	COME ON, GUYS (and gals), LIGHTEN UP!	This book is a wonderful dramatization of all that Mars/Venus, battle-of-the-sexes, alleged-hopelessness-of-relationships stuff. Read it, laugh, maybe get just a tiny bit more insight into this stuff, and whatever you do, don't take it too seriously.  Ever heard of stand-up comedy? Well, this is a stand-up book.	2002-12-19
US	34281232	R3907D1WMCEMLZ	0445082968	332172451	My Young Years	Books	5	14	14	N	N	I can't believe I'm the FIRST to review this book!	Terrific   --   and it sounds like it really was written by Arthur (Artur?) himself. It's almost diary-like in its detail, and everything is fascinating. We get a lot of juicy personal stuff, including love-life stuff and, on the other side of the coin, his young failed attempt at suicide. My own favorite part of the book is his very detailed reminiscence of the piano competition that he entered, and LOST; what's interesting is how this great, beloved, infinitely-accomplished pianist and man-of-the-world apparently never lost his hurt and bitterness over this stupid competition  --  kind of like if Derek Jeter or Barry Bonds went on and on about the time they got shafted by an umpire in Little League. I don't mean this as a criticism of him; if anything, the opposite   --   it's an example of how much he was just like the rest of us, which probably was a big part of why we loved him so much.	2002-12-18
US	34281232	R1S06NYOKUA55T	0020306652	778679666	Ball Four: Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A period-piece that will continue to endure	I'm one of the many whose lives were enriched by Ball Four and who gained personal inspiration from it. In addition to all else that the book is, it is the story of someone who at the moment was an underdog, in a difficult and sometimes hostile setting, seeking to bring himself back to a better place, little by little -- AND  HE MAKES IT!  I'm sure that wasn't a part of the original intent of the book, but it's there, and it's very moving. That moment when Bouton runs into the Astro manager and coaches in the hotel lobby while they're talking about maybe giving him a start, is a great literary moment, and there are many others like it   --  simple moments that rise surprisingly to the level of drama because of the book's fine pacing and the humanness of the narrative. Each next edition of the book -- \\"Ball Five,\\" \\"Ball Six,\\" \\"Ball Seven\\" -- has added significant new chapters. Ball Four is very much a book of that moment in which it originated, but its humanity, wit, and, yes, drama will keep it alive for a very, very long time.	2002-12-18
US	34281232	R3SSAOG0EHAD71	0671638378	381544401	The Great Pianists: From Mozart to the Present	Books	5	0	1	N	N	AN ALL-TIME GREAT BOOK	As a follower of the piano scene for many years, I've got to say this book is THE one that you need to have. Its approach and tone reflect a glorification, awe, and love of pianism and its history  --  and that's just great. Sometimes the facts aren't quite right, and sometimes questionable opinions are presented as though they were clear fact; but the thrust and the narrative are so great that it hardly matters.  Some of the other reviews complain that certain subjects should have been given more space; but,  INSTEAD OF WHAT??  If they mean that the book should have been LONGER, well, I would love it to have been longer, and I bet the author would have been glad to oblige. Much of the book consists of the author's commentary on recordings by pianists of yesteryear, and I've always had the idea that his initial inspiration for the book may have been his love of listening to old recordings and the wish to share his impressions of them. Does anybody know if this is true? Anyway, wouldn't we ALL love to have spent a few months (or years) just listening to those old 78's?	2002-12-18
US	34281232	R338VGP4L1PMLM	1931584036	643763646	Win Shares	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Some critics not seeing the forest for the trees	Another great Bill James effort. His \\"New Historical Abstract\\" had introduced us to the \\"Win Shares\\" approach, and here, he fleshes it out. A real treat is that we even get ratings for middle-of-the-pack players; there aren't too many places where you can find meaningful ratings for guys like Omar Moreno, or Horace Clarke (who actually rates surprisingly well). Also the \\"letter grade\\" evaluations of players' defense are a fascinating treasure trove, and apparently the most correct defensive ratings yet, albeit with aberrations -- e.g., is Derek Jeter really a D+?     One negative: the author is harder on his colleagues than he needs to be. It's not that he isn't RIGHT about the flaws in their methods, but his forcefulness is off-putting, especially since (presumably) he's talking about his friends. (Hey,  Bill, you don't want to turn into Howard Cosell!)     There are indeed flaws in the Win Shares method, but the author acknowledges them, and he emphasizes that his method, like all others so far, is a work in progress; in fact he seems unique among his colleagues in how prominently he acknowledges this. The Win Shares method seems a HUGE advance over everything else. Perhaps the largest and most important breakthrough is very simple, and I don't think the author highlights this enough: The method inherently places a premium on WINNING; if your team wins a lot of games, you tend to rate higher by this method than by others.     This book's ratings seem like the best of any so far anywhere, and the methodology is by far the most satisfying.	2002-12-17
US	34281232	R1SHRIQ42DZDJ0	1568361521	901040361	Baseball Letters: A Fan's Correspondence With His Heroes	Books	5	1	2	N	N	IF EVER THERE WAS A PERFECT BOOK . . . . .	. . . this would have to be it.  I actually started getting jealous that HE was the one who wrote to all these players, and HE was the one who got letters back from them. But I got over it quickly and just shared in the joy and the fascinating discoveries. What a treasure trove, made even better by the author's showing us copies of the actual handwritten letters from the players! Also it's gutsy how he shares with us the story of how this project resulted from a period of emotional difficulty that he went through. The style is casual yet flawless -- as easy to read as anything you'll ever find.	2002-12-14
