US	34387692	R277RX73E2MFZ5	0446530980	861999493	The Zero Game (Meltzer, Brad)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Yet Another Intriguing Thriller from Brad Meltzer!	You cannot come away from reading a Brad Meltzer book without being just a little smarter. THE FIRST COUNSEL provided an extremely interesting peek behind the curtains of the White House. THE MILLIONAIRES contained several side dissertations about finance that were not only informative but also interesting. In his latest offering, THE ZERO GAME, Meltzer provides an illuminating, and at times, quietly frightening look at the way the United States government does --- and does not --- work.<br />At age 19 Meltzer was an intern on Capitol Hill. Along the way he apparently acquired a bit of knowledge about appropriations committees. You've heard the term &quot;appropriations committee.&quot; It's a term of art that usually causes one's eyes to glaze over. He apparently did a lot more than work on Capitol Hill, however; he observed and absorbed a lot as well, if THE ZERO GAME is any indication.<br />The initial focus of the novel is the appropriations committees of the House and Senate. Matthew Mercer and Harris Sandler are good friends who are on appropriations committees in the House and Senate, respectively. One day Sandler lets Mercer in on something called the Zero Game, which is kind of a clandestine government office betting pool. But it isn't a wager on football games --- it's a bet on such things as how many votes will be cast for or against House resolutions, or whether items will be included or excluded from bills or resolutions. The fact that the participants in the game don't know the identity of the other players, other than the pool member who invites them to participate, adds to the intrigue.<br />Meltzer initially takes a bit longer to set up THE ZERO GAME than he ordinarily does in his novels, and for just a page or two his regular readers might wonder if he's going to tone things down a bit for this offering. Never fear. The quiet beginning is a setup. After the first 50 pages or so Meltzer takes a completely unexpected left turn that will have you rereading a paragraph or two several times until you're sure that he actually did what you think he did. I still can't believe it, but he did do it.<br />From there, Meltzer doesn't even give his reader a chance to come up for air. What appears to be a harmless, even beneficial, line item in an appropriations bill --- authorizing the private acquisition of an abandoned, and apparently worthless, gold mine in South Dakota --- becomes a wager subject of the Zero Game and leads to a desperate cross-country race to determine why someone is willing to stop at nothing --- including murder --- to ensure that the transfer of the land goes through.<br />Meltzer is in fine form here, as his protagonists are pursued back and forth across the country with an ultimate, and perhaps symbolic, showdown in the bowels of the Capitol Building. The elements that make Meltzer's work so addictive are all present here. Meltzer has few equals in his ability to ratchet the suspense level of his narratives to new highs, all the while dropping interesting little factoids about the nooks and crannies of his well-known surroundings. I learned more about the Capitol Building in a few pages of THE ZERO GAME than I learned from a solid year of high school civics. Yet Meltzer never lets the information drag his storyline down. There are times when reading this book is like being taken on a tour of the Capitol Building by a tour guide who has a pistol stuck in your ear while you race through the corridors of government. You know where you are and you're conscious of what he's saying, but you're praying that everything turns out okay.<br />Meltzer also demonstrates some familiarity with caverns. I don't know if he is a spelunker in his spare time, but his descriptions of mine shafts and caverns are dead on. Maybe a little too dead-on, actually. If you're at all claustrophobic, you might want to read the last half of the book outside so you can take a breath once in a while.<br />With THE ZERO GAME Meltzer continues to demonstrate his ability to present a complex plot in an understandable manner while using it as a method to propel his characters, and the reader, through a reading experience that is unstoppable. Although this is only Meltzer's fifth novel, he writes like a Grandmaster of many years' experience. If you haven't reserved a bookshelf in your library for him yet, you will soon.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub	2004-01-24
US	34387692	R2B00PN59IFQDK	0385510187	818206773	Dating Dead Men	Books	3	6	10	N	N	A Fine Debut from a Promising First-Time Novelist	Meet Wollie (short for Wollstonecraft) Shelley. She's the manager of a struggling greeting card store in a seedy part of Los Angeles. Wollie dreams of someday having enough time and money to design her own greeting cards full-time. Right now, though, Wollie has no time to spare. She is desperately trying to keep her store afloat, helping to care for her schizophrenic brother, and has agreed to participate in a dating experiment --- dating forty men in sixty days --- to help a radio shrink do research for a book on dating.<br />When Wollie drives to her brother's mental hospital late one night, she almost literally runs into a dead body. Then she's held hostage by a mysterious (but incredibly attractive) man she knows only as Doc. Who is this guy, and how is he involved with the murder? Why are two Swedish hit men on Wollie's tail? What is a ferret's favorite food? And will Wollie find the man of her dreams on the dating circuit or in a more unexpected place? These are just some of the burning questions answered in the course of DATING DEAD MEN's wacky, fast-paced plot.<br />Fans of Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series will find much to enjoy in this mystery, the first in a series. Spunky Wollie keeps up a hilarious commentary on everything from the mystery itself to the absurd fashions she is required to wear on her dates. Wollie's sidekicks, including her uncle and her co-workers at the store, also add comic flavor to the tale. Unfortunately, many of these supporting characters drop out of sight midway through the book, as the plot grows increasingly complex.<br />As the mystery plot grows more central to the story, the weaknesses of this first novel show through. The two stories --- about the mystery and about the serial dating --- are not sufficiently integrated, and the relationships among the various mobsters can be as difficult to unravel as a plate of spaghetti.<br />There are some really poignant moments here, though, particularly regarding Wollie's brother and Doc's mute daughter. These thought-provoking characters help add depth to the novel, and readers will look forward to learning more about these characters in future installments. DATING DEAD MEN is a light-hearted romp through Los Angeles's singles scene and its crime scenes, and fans will be cheering for Wollie to find love and nab the bad guy in one fell swoop.<br />   --- Reviewed by Norah Piehl	2004-01-24
US	34387692	R1O074C3JIR2JF	0060562080	141165820	Under the Duvet: Shoes, Reviews, Having the Blues, Builders, Babies, Families and Other Calamities	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Marian Keyes has a winning way with words --- and people	Some people take to their beds to escape from their lives; Marian Keyes takes to her bed in order to reflect on her life. She really does spend her days &quot;under the duvet,&quot; comfortably propped up on pillows and typing away on her Sony Vaio laptop. Meanwhile, her husband of nearly a decade, Tony Baines, keeps the home and business fires burning from a more traditional workplace downstairs, communicating with his wife via a dedicated telephone line.<br />Such a setup has not only allowed Keyes to give full rein to her writing talents; it's given her a pretty great title gimmick, because when you come right down to it, so many things do take place under the duvet (or over, or around, but I digress). Most of the 47 short pieces in this book were written for the Irish Tatler and other magazines and newspapers, which has had some reviewers noting that &quot;Keyes is also a journalist.&quot; She modestly points out that this is true insofar as she has produced these works of journalism --- but that she did so after becoming a novelist, when editors began to seek her out for pieces.<br />However, her modesty is misplaced because those who sought her out were clearly doing so in order to get Keyes's singular take on life, love and the pursuit of more hours for shopping. Smart editors they are, because Keyes not only has a winning way with words but with people as well. She comes alive in her essays as the spark plug of her family --- a person who doesn't believe she is the center of the universe, but around whom the folks naturally gravitate nonetheless.<br />This serves Keyes particularly well because everything --- a supposedly slimming seaweed wrap, a single kitten-heeled mule --- is fodder for her delightful gristmill of contemporary manners and mores. One essay's experience, &quot;In the Name of Research --- Going Under Cover,&quot; about a brief stint at a glossy woman's magazine, was used to great effect in SUSHI FOR BEGINNERS, Keyes's second novel about ---what else? --- a start-up glossy woman's magazine.<br />But Keyes is not merely collecting fodder; she's sizing it up as well. &quot;Fear and Loathing in Los Angeles&quot; (her experience there shows up in ANGELS) contains acute observations of that city: &quot;It was fearsomely hot as we drove along and the gray glare hurt my eyes. The sky looked like it could do for a good scrub with a wire brush. Abruptly I realized what was so odd --- there were no human beings on the streets. The place had a strange science-fiction feel to it.&quot;<br />Here's another thing about Keyes as a journalist: she's remarkably honest in her observations, especially as they pertain to herself (and Himself, as she dubs her good-humored husband) or her family. Having finished a university degree in law, she spent much of her twenties in substance abuse. Now, ten years sober and wiser (and having dissected that part of her life in RACHEL'S HOLIDAY), Keyes writes of her darkest hour in the previously unpublished &quot;The Pissed Is Another Country, They Do Things Differently There&quot;: &quot;From September 1993 to January 1994 was the most bereft time I have ever lived through. I had a bare bed, in a bare room, with a bare window, in a bare, bare life.&quot;<br />Fortunately that darkest hour really was just before dawn, and recovery. And fortunately for her readers, even when Keyes strips the bed, she has fresh linen at the ready. That essays ends, &quot;For someone who'd always felt so inconsequential, I remember realizing that I'd been rescued. That I'd been worth rescuing.&quot;<br />   --- Reviewed by Bethanne Kelly Patrick	2004-01-24
US	34387692	R4D9G5KIJFPJX	0670032697	730701037	C'est la Vie: An American Conquers the City of Light, Begins a New Life, and Becomes--Zut Alors!--Almost French	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Get Acquainted with Suzy Gershman --- You'll Be Glad You Did	Mike Gershman was in the final stages of lung cancer before the doctor discovered he was sick. Every night after that, his wife of 25 years lay in his arms and sobbed, \\"What will I do without you?\\"<br />\\"You will go to Paris,\\" he said.<br />Six weeks after the official diagnosis, he was dead.<br />In the officially-sanctioned grief book, the widow mopes in her house, wrapping herself in her husband's old shirts and becoming a pariah among friends and family. She hits bottom, crawls to some officially-approved house of redemption, and there, in the glow of the love of the Lord, starts the slog back toward life --- which includes, along the way, the writing of an officially-sanctioned grief book and the appearance of a Good Man (though never, of course, as good as her husband).<br />This is not that book, for the simple reason that Suzy Gershman is not that woman. She grieves for her husband, alright, but she's no moper. Indeed, rarely have I encountered a woman with such an optimistic take on life. She likes people, and people like her right back. She likes going out --- she's the author of the Born to Shop guides --- and the folks she meets in shops and cafes quickly fall under her spell. <br />So 52-year-old Suzy Gershman, to the surprise of her college-age son and a good many of her neighbors, walked out of her cozy, memory-filled house in Westport, Connecticut, and moved to Paris. (What would have surprised friends and family more: \\"I paid for the funeral with a credit card. I wanted the miles.\\") <br />And once she got to Paris, she had adventures with a capital A. Renting an apartment is a chore at best in France; the rules are crazy, the landlords often sadistic. Suzy's spared nothing; good cheer carries her through. Ditto the buying of a bed --- you have no idea how complex a transaction that is --- and the shock of buying standard kitchen items at three times the American price.<br />But Paris, she discovers, is a place where she can thrive. It's not just theflower-markets and cafes, it's the culture. A cheery news story reminds her that the French didn't have more sex per week, but that they have more sex later in their lives. Her conclusion: \\"Maybe every American woman over fifty should move to France.\\"<br />Prose this breezy grabs your hand and just pulls you along. You race with Suzy through the first year of her new life as \\"The Runaway Widow\\" tosses off useful advice for Paris visitors and the bereaved with equal insouciance. Naturally, because her charm is so infectious, she meets a man whose opening salvo is \\"You are too beautiful to walk past me. I say a prayer you will stop to talk to me.\\"<br />Widows don't have sex? That's only in the officially-sanctioned books. Suzy Gershman not only goes to bed with this man --- this married man, in fact --- she describes their frolics in what might be called lurid detail. Women of a certain age will cheer her, even as they want to tell her what she already knows: He's wrong for her.<br />\\"Life handed me a lemon,\\" she writes, near the very happy ending. \\"Somehow I had made citron pressè ...and it was sweet.\\" How sweet? This book makes you want to go to Paris immediately. And, once you get there, it makes you think you must call Suzy, for in just 270 pages, she has become an old and dear friend.<br />   --- Reviewed by Jesse Kornbluth	2004-01-24
US	34387692	R3QMXICXJSKDGN	0374299862	480290555	The Havana Room	Books	5	12	17	N	N	This Could Be Colin Harrison's Breakthrough Novel	There has been a lot of prepublication buzz about THE HAVANA ROOM by Colin Harrison. Everything you may have heard about this novel is true. It will be superglued to your hands, and to your mind, from practically the minute you begin reading it. There is only one way that I can describe how good it really is. After opening the book one morning and reading the first 319 pages in one sitting, I set the book down, shoveled the ice off of the driveway, and ran a few errands, all the while wondering how it would end. I simply wanted to make the experience of reading this spellbinding novel last a bit longer; I did not want it to end.<br />The most important lesson that one can learn about life is that every act carries its own potential for disaster, and that while there are ways to cut the odds, the house holds all the cards. This is a lesson that Bill Wyeth learns, at the cost of dear coin, in THE HAVANA ROOM.<br />Wyeth is a fabulously successful real estate attorney, still on the ascending arc of a brilliant career, when he commits an act of simple, almost offhand, courtesy that results in personal disaster. Within weeks he has lost his job, his family and his respect, while each day tolls his ever-deeper descent into his personal maelstrom.<br />The unplanned randomness of his life finds him entering a Manhattan steak house --- we never really learn its name --- where he finds himself slowly drawn into the web of Allison Sparks, the restaurant's attractive, enigmatic manager, and the Havana Room, a separate room in the restaurant where entrance is on an invitation-only basis and where what goes on is a closely held secret.<br />Wyeth and Sparks slowly form a conversational relationship, a relationship that begins a fateful culmination on the day that Sparks asks Wyeth to represent her friend, Jay Rainey, in a real estate transaction that must be concluded by midnight of that day. Wyeth has reservations about the transaction and his role in the matter almost from thebeginning. The transaction, which amounts to a land swap involving a Manhattan building for some prime Long Island acreage owned by Rainey, brings Wyeth closer to Sparks at the price of ensnaring him in a mysterious, complex scenario that accelerates his downward spiral.<br />Wyeth is buffeted by a number of complex forces, among them a powerful Chilean businessman, a frightening hip-hop mogul, a farmer found frozen to a bulldozer and, most significantly, Rainey's obsessions, including his peculiar fixation on a fourteen-year-old British girl. The nexus connecting these seemingly disparate elements is ultimately located in THE HAVANA ROOM, where the denouement has the potential to ultimately result in disaster or redemption.<br />One of the most fascinating elements of THE HAVANA ROOM is the way in which Harrison keeps the plates containing different plot threads spinning while hypnotizing the reader to the extent that one can still see them rotating long after the book is done, and Harrison has taken his plates and poles, packed them up and gone home. But it is not just the exquisite plotting of the book that makes it such a delight. Harrison says more in a sentence than many writers do in a chapter, and more in a chapter than others do in an entire book. Harrison at one point gives, in a little more than three pages, a summary of the evolution of Manhattan real estate from its inception to the present. Is it complete? No. But after reading it, one could walk along Broadway in Times Square and feel the sense of history upon which the area is built.<br />At another point, when discussing Sparks, Harrison presents an interesting and bitingly accurate social and emotional commentary regarding the trajectory of the lives of the young, single women who come to work and live in Manhattan. His dissertation is only a few paragraphs long, yet contains more truth than any multiple DVD set chronicling a season of Sex and the City. <br />Harrison also has a way of making anycharacter, no matter how secondary their role or fleeting their appearance, vibrant and real. This is true whether it involves a street punk on a subway stairway, an ex-cop running a down-at-the-heels diner, or a rap groupie strung out on heroin and the proximity of fortune. Perhaps Harrison's greatest strength, however, is his ability to infuse his characters with a quiet but strong nobility that enable them to make the best of a bad situation. In the end, all is not as it seems --- and if salvation is not at hand, there is at least the promise of it.<br />THE HAVANA ROOM may well be Harrison's breakthrough novel --- it certainly has that potential. It is a stunning triumph for him and a feast for the reader. Very highly recommended.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub	2004-01-24
US	34387692	R7G4DYBYUXHUD	0765307006	554998165	The Codex	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Thrilling, Fast-Paced and Chock Full of Surprises	Together Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child have written --- in my opinion --- some of the best thrillers of our time. Preston's solo effort THE CODEX earns that same praise. And if you are a fan of quest stories, you will enjoy this unique twist on a popular theme.<br />Aging and ill, Maxwell Broadbent has devised a highly unusual plan for the distribution of his impressive estate. An archaeologist-tomb robber, Broadbent has spent his life amassing an unparalleled collection of art and artifacts. His three grown sons are disappointments to him, but he can change that by sending them on the greatest adventure of their lives.<br />When the boys arrive at Broadbent's mansion to find it ransacked and virtually emptied out, they think their father has not only been robbed but kidnapped as well --- until they find the tape that begins with Broadbent himself saying, &quot;Greetings from the dead.&quot; The eccentric millionaire has taken all his prized possessions and buried them in a crypt in Central America, and left instructions that the son (or sons) who find the treasure will inherit it. Oh, and Broadbent has buried himself with the goods!<br />The adventure begins. Vernon, the hippie spiritualist in the group, enlists his questionable guru for help. Philip, a professor, tracks down his father's former expedition partner, now a P.I., thinking who better to find Broadbent than the man who knew his past quests best. And Tom, a vet, declines to search until a beautiful young doctor convinces him that amongst the treasures is an item vital to the future of medicine and the future of mankind: the Codex.<br />The Codex is a Mayan book that contains the medical applications of the indigenous plants of Central America. When a failing pharmaceutical company learns of its existence, the race to feed greed and find Broadbent is on.<br />Thrilling, fast-paced and chock full of unexpected surprises --- including one Honduran who has claims on the inheritance as well --- THE CODEXis all that and more.<br />   --- Reviewed by Roberta O'Hara	2004-01-24
US	34387692	R37LMV54NMRBTM	0767914023	250693386	An Embarrassment of Mangoes: A Caribbean Interlude	Books	5	4	5	N	N	You'll want to savor every page of this enchanting book!	For the stressed out and winter-weary comes this transporting memoir that will appeal directly to escapist fantasies about leaving the work world behind and taking up residence in the nearest tropical locale. In AN EMBARRASSMENT OF MANGOES, the author and her husband do just that, and this enchanting, sun-drenched book intimately chronicles their life-changing two-year odyssey around the Caribbean aboard their sailboat Receta.<br />Prior to the trip, Ann and Steve Vanderhoof were driven, forty-something professionals whose lives were dominated by demanding careers and a seemingly endless string of deadlines. This, coupled with their increasing weariness of harsh Toronto winters, made them long for a different way of life --- one that was far removed from overstuffed day timers and driveways that needed shoveling. Their escape fantasy began to form into a full-fledged action plan of penny pinching and preparation that eventually enabled them to live out their dream.<br />After setting sail, the cruising life quickly seduces them as they discover the pleasures of living one day at a time and basking in simple delights such as fiery sunsets, freshly caught seafood and ice cold Presidente beers. But life onboard the boat isn't always smooth sailing as new challenges quickly take the place of old workaday worries: Tropical storms, perilous ocean crossings, the frequent threat of hurricanes and the daily struggle of living in tiny quarters with another human being for months on end are just a few of the trip's hazards. Nonetheless, the trade-off in exchange for a whole new way of life proves to be more than worth it.<br />During their two-year voyage of discovery, the Vanderhoofs cover 7,000 nautical miles and explore forty-seven Caribbean islands, stretching from the Bahamas to as far south as Grenada. More than just tourists, they immerse themselves in the hypnotic rhythms of Caribbean life and culture, befriending the locals and soaking up the distinct music, flavors and essence of each port of call.<br />Vanderhoof's particular passion for cooking infuses the text with a cacophony of delicious tastes and smells from the savory island dishes that she and her husband encounter, many of which she recreates in the ship's tiny galley using a variety of indigenous local ingredients discovered along the way. Peppered throughout the book are the results of her culinary explorations in the form of authentic, mouth-watering recipes for local specialties such as Bahamian cracked conch and West Indian rum punch. In addition to the gastronomic pleasures offered up, the profusion of sights, sounds and colors that leap from the page provide a veritable feast for the senses as well.<br />Indeed, the book's biggest strength lies in Vanderhoof's extraordinary powers of description and her ability to make us feel as though we, too, are there. Under the spell of her ripe, evocative prose we can easily call to mind the heady perfume of mangoes in a marketplace, the sweet taste of fresh coconut milk on a hot day, and the dazzling colors of a Caribbean sunset streaked against a turquoise horizon. Interwoven with the sensuous depictions of lush scenery are the author's richly textured portraits of the colorful island inhabitants and fascinating snippets of local lore. Each of the islands has a distinct and varied personality, which Vanderhoof captures with beautiful lucidity.<br />She uses this same keen blend of awareness and insight to chronicle the transformations that she and her husband undergo during the journey. As they overcome challenges, gain new skills and face their fears, their nervousness gives way to confidence and they grow in ways that they never could have imagined back home. In fully giving themselves over to a new way of life, their voyage becomes as much one of personal discovery as one of cultural and culinary adventure. This winning combination is what makes this island-by-island, meal-by-meal guide to the Caribbean so deliciousto savor.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joni Rendon	2004-01-24
US	34387692	R31KB6O9F51B3F	0312304250	544902283	Vertical Coffin: A Shane Scully Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Possibly Cannell's Best Novel to Date	Stephen J. Cannell recently celebrated his thirty-fifth year in what is commonly referred to as &quot;show business.&quot; He has racked up some impressive statistics during that period. Cannell has been directly responsible for the creation of forty --- forty --- television series, many of which are still in syndication. He has also been the guiding creative hand behind a number of major motion pictures, and has recently become a spokesman for individuals affected with dyslexia.<br />During the past several years Cannell has also been writing novels that have achieved not only the commercial success one would expect but also much-deserved critical acclaim. At this point Cannell could probably phone in the plot and dialogue and still do well --- the man seems to be incapable of writing badly --- but he instead continues to demonstrate the craftsmanship and professionalism that have caused his work to be held in good stead during the past four decades.<br />VERTICAL COFFIN, Cannell's latest novel, is noteworthy on several levels. He has found a winning character in Los Angeles Police Officer Shane Scully, previously featured in the novels THE TIN COLLECTORS, THE VIKING FUNERAL and HOLLYWOOD TOUGH. Cannell continues to flesh out and develop Scully as he grows beyond the dimensions of the literary media. VERTICAL COFFIN finds Scully involved in a shootout, the result of a routine warrant service that goes horribly wrong. The carnage leaves an L.A. Sheriff's deputy --- Emo Rojas, a close friend of Scully's --- dead, a home destroyed, and a number of people asking why.<br />It appears that things went terribly wrong due to the negligence of the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, which gave the warrant to the Sheriff's Department but apparently neglected to mention that the subject of the warrant was thought to possess an arsenal of illegal weapons and explosives. This error results in Rojas's death, and the Sheriff's Department blames ATF for his death. Thetwo agencies soon appear to be involved in a clandestine war, with first an ATF member and then an L.A. Sheriff being murdered in their homes. The mayor of Los Angeles, hoping to keep the violence from escalating, directs the LAPD to investigate. The investigation is handed to Scully, who in turn soon finds himself isolated between the two agencies, and he and his family are at risk.<br />Cannell's work throughout VERTICAL COFFIN, meanwhile, is absolutely first rate. His research into the hows and wherefores of SWAT team procedure and weaponry put the reader right in the strike vans; if you don't feel like you're choking on the gun smoke you're not reading closely enough. Cannell's plotting is meticulously detailed, complex yet simply told, so that it is impossible to lose the plot threads as they slowly but surely come together. He also pulls off a major coup by introducing a fascinating and unforgettable character within the last thirty-five pages of VERTICAL COFFIN, smoothly and plausibly integrating him into the storyline.<br />VERTICAL COFFIN is arguably Cannell's best novel to date. If you are not familiar with his other work, particularly the Shane Scully novels, this is the perfect place to begin what is sure to be a new literary addiction. If he continues on his present trajectory, Cannell may ultimately become better known for his novels than for his film work.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub	2004-01-24
US	34387692	R36U5NMSF5ZR1Y	0374174075	551326514	I Sailed with Magellan	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Its Inventiveness and Spirit are Undeniable	Stuart Dybek's I SAILED WITH MAGELLAN arrives more than a decade after his previous book, a short story collection titled THE COAST OF CHICAGO. While it's neither a blockbuster nor a doorstop tome like Jeffrey Eugenides's long-awaited MIDDLESEX or Donna Tartt's years-in-the-making THE LITTLE FRIEND, I SAILED WITH MAGELLAN is definitely worth the wait, serving as a reintroduction to a writer who captures his old Chicago neighborhood with documentary detail and raconteur flourish.<br />Despite its billing as a novel, I SAILED WITH MAGELLAN is actually a series of short stories that have locales and characters in common. All feature a teenage narrator named Perry and all are set in the Little Village community of Chicago during the early 1960s. Dybek lovingly and often humorously evokes this time and place through telling observations.<br />Poor families use old bed sheets for curtains and veterans order shots for friends who didn't come back from the war. It's a dangerous, often discouraging neighborhood, and in strong, unfussy prose Dybek describes \\"the daily round of life where bag ladies combed alleys and the homeless, sleeping in junked cars, were found frozen to death in winter. Laid-off workmen became wife beaters in their newfound spare time; welfare mothers in the projects turned tricks to supplement the family budget; and it seemed that every day someone lost teeth at one or another of the corner bars.\\"<br />Fortunately, Dybek lets his lively characters --- including a junior high writing prodigy named Camille Estrada and a slob hitman named Joe Ditto --- run wild in this setting. Rather than engineering plots and scenes for them, Dybek simply lets them tell their own stories, a rare talent that gives the book a personal, unrehearsed quality. Plus, it makes for some truly weird goings-on. As a coming-of-age story, I SAILED WITH MAGELLAN eschews any predictability in favor of a dreamlike flow of events and characters, many of which are supersaturated with local color.<br />There is, for instance, the Chickenman, who walks around town with a chicken perching on his head and pecking corn off his tongue. And there's Little Village's unofficial child saint, Ralphie Poskozim, who was born with blue skin: \\"The blue was plainly visible beneath his blue-green eyes, smudges darker than shadows, as if he'd been in a fistfight or gotten into his mother's mascara. Even his lips looked cold.\\"<br />All of these strange characters are filtered through Perry's perspective, and as the novel progresses, he grows up and his concerns become more adult. Fortunately, as Perry gains more freedom, the stories don't lose their charm or their sense of wonder.<br />Memory works in flashes, not in fluid narratives, and it allows for exaggeration of facts. In the end these chapters cohere into something larger than a short-story collection, but the book is not like a proper novel. This is certainly not a criticism: the form of I SAILED WITH MAGELLAN may be unclassifiable, but its inventiveness and spirit are undeniable.<br />   --- Reviewed by Stephen M. Deusner	2004-01-17
US	34387692	R17BFHKM2KJ0G3	0066211166	495401313	The Third Child	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Phenomenal, Provocative and Passionate Story	Melissa Dickinson was in her senior year at Miss Porter's School in Connecticut. \\"In her father's family ... the women always attended Miss Porter's --- even her, no matter how far down the family hierarchy she was rated. Her father wanted to be President, and her mother was determined to get him there. Daddy's importance was like a family member, bigger and even more visible than her two older siblings, Richard IV\\" ... an ambitious younger version of his politician father ... and her sister, smart, beautiful, lawyer-to-be Merilee. Her younger sibling Billy was the rebel but he had an edge that made him \\"acceptable\\" because he was handsome and smart. As the third child among the four, Lissa felt like a misfit. She had failed before she started in this family. And as the \\"outsider\\" she had taken an objective view of her family and she didn't particularly like what she was saw. In her position \\"she was powerless, but she could try to place them in perspective, she could learn and criticize, silently, stealthily. With [her parents] all was stealth.\\"<br />Marge Piercy, who has written fifteen novels, sixteen books of poetry, a writing manual, a play, a memoir, a collection of essays and has edited an anthology of poetry written by American women opens her latest novel, THE THIRD CHILD, by introducing the reader to the Dickinson clan through the eyes of the story's mixed-up, unhappy, and very lonely heroine. Now that she was eighteen ... \\"she had gradually come to understand things that had been encoded and hidden when she had been young and naïve. Her past with her parents rewrote itself as she gathered knowledge, as the landscape of her childhood mutated out of ... blue skies to a landscape with shadows and dark pits and hidden fires burning,\\" under the imperfect reality of her powerful parents. This form of narrative works perfectly; especially when she gives us hints of what we can expect to emerge as the novel unfolds.<br />\\"The first big event Melissa remembered after her father had become governor (of Pennsylvania) was an execution. The prisoner's name was Toussaint Parker, and he had killed a policeman.\\" On the night he was to be put to death, the governor's mansion was surrounded with protestors, \\"[m]ommy called the demonstrators softheads ... [she] said it was an excuse for the radicals and the commies and the softheads to make a fuss, but no judge was going to let off a Black troublemaker who killed a cop.\\" Her father, the current senator, was the prosecutor at the time of the trial and it was he who got the conviction.<br />Piercy is a rebel in ideology and action. She became politicized when she protested the war in Vietnam and much of her writing reflects her commitment to righting wrongs imposed on individuals. Usually, she writes about women who are struggling to escape whatever confines them. In THE THIRD CHILD, the protagonist is very much trying to stave off the knifelike criticisms heaped on her by her mother, while trying desperately to shed the role she was forced into as the family's scapegoat. Her world is often bewildering, and when she finally graduates from high school and gets to Wesleyan she begins to slowly pull herself away from their dark influence.<br />\\"Melissa felt as if she abandoned past selves like snake skins of shame along her bumpy route to adulthood ... she viewed herself as a project under construction, the road all torn up ... [s]he would remake herself ... into somebody strong and important.\\" Unfortunately, Blake, the man she meets and falls in love with, has a hidden agenda that will lead her down a path littered with landmines, searing explosions and irreversible decisions. With his encouragement she begins to slowly investigate her father and his political history.<br />Blake introduces her to a fellow classmate, Phil, the son of the investigative reporter who ... \\"had tried for years to smear her father and never succeeded. Phil was engaged in amassing long lists of contributors to[her father's] campaigns and to organizations supporting him. They were looking for interlocking directorates of corporations and institutions to identify the men --- and it was eighty percent men --- who had given and given again, whose pockets were deep for Dick.\\" Slowly, Melissa begins to uncover secrets her parents have worked diligently to keep buried. Her politicization helps foster the tension between protagonist and antagonists. Piercy does more than create suspense; she has molded her characters in perfect relief to each other. Their actions result in repercussions beyond anything each of them could have predicted, thus pummeling them as every event unfolds.<br />THE THIRD CHILD is a phenomenal story comprised of a carefully thought out thematic structure that is very complex. The issues addressed are many and range from a coming-of-age story, to an intense love story; from a political treatise, to a fully realized novel; from its chilling undertones it often reads like a mystery; and as we move along with Lissa, we see, too, that it has all of the elements of a true bildungsroman. Marge Piercy gives readers a valiant heroine, a young woman who painfully comes to know herself and her family.<br />This novel is very provocative and resonates with passions that are both restrained and at the same time allowed to run wild. Many of Piercy's novels often end sadly, but that is no reason not to read them and learn from them, to think about them and grow with them. Enjoy!<br />   --- Reviewed by Barbara Lipkien Gershenbaum	2004-01-17
US	34387692	R4JJ1ICE4W0E4	0312313004	864796996	For the Love of Mike (Molly Murphy Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Well-Paced and Well-Researched Mystery Novel	Rhys Bowen's third novel in the award-winning Molly Murphy mystery series is a story sure to be recognized on its own merit. A combination of Murphy's Irish temper, loyalty to her chosen profession and stubbornness make for good reading.<br />After the death of her mentor, Murphy sticks with her attempt to earn a living as a female private detective in turn-of-the-century New York City. When she stakes out a client's husband as a possible wife-cheater, her troubles multiply. She's not welcome in bars or on the street late at night, places necessary for a private eye to operate. More than once, she is harassed by the New York City Police who mistake her for a criminal. Murphy is reluctant to seek help from her former lover, Captain Daniel Sullivan, at the precinct. But more than once he intervenes on her behalf.<br />Murphy's spunky spirit pulls her out of the doldrums on numerous occasions. At a time when she is penniless, without a client and nearly giving up, an opportunity comes her way to persevere. She's involved in the women's rights issues of the day when she takes on a case to locate a mole in the garment industry. Labor unions, gangland mischief and further tangles with the law become her daily companions.<br />At the same time, Murphy has accepted a missing person search for a family in Ireland. Their daughter, Katherine, has fled to the United States with her lover, Michael. Her father has reason to think that the runaways may have gone to New York City. Murphy's research leads her to a dead end. It appears as if the girl and her husband may have been murdered. However, Murphy doggedly follows any lead that might promise a positive outcome.<br />Bowen's Murphy is determined, relentless, plucky, pretty and definitely possesses an Irish temperament. She is stubborn when offered help, preferring her own instincts for survival. The men in her life seek to protect her, but she sees their attempts as interference. Jacob Singer vies with Capt. Sullivan for Murphy's love, but she puts her job ahead of them both. There is no satisfaction for the reader who wants a neat romantic knot tied.<br />FOR THE LOVE OF MIKE is full of the flavor of New York City at the turn of the century. Sweatshop turmoil and the plight of the lower end immigrant worker are given colorful treatment. The infancy of labor union struggles and women's suffrage movements are well documented. FOR THE LOVE OF MIKE is a well-paced and well-researched mystery novel that leaves the invitation open to the next book in the Molly Murphy series.<br />   --- Reviewed by Judy Gigstad	2004-01-17
US	34387692	R2J2RCMZCNSDAL	0525947671	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An Appealing Mixture of Romance, Humor and Art History	A series of six tapestries depicting a lady seducing a unicorn now hang in the Musee National du Moyen Age in Paris. Although these tapestries --- created in the late fifteenth century --- are some of the most famous in the world, very little is known about their creation or their history. Tracy Chevalier, the novelist best known for writing the perennial book club favorite (and new feature film) GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING, has used her rich imagination to weave together romance, humor and art history in THE LADY AND THE UNICORN.<br />Chevalier starts with one of the few facts that is actually known about the tapestries: they were created for the nobleman Jean Le Viste, whose family coat of arms features prominently in their design. In Chevalier's portrayal, Le Viste is a power-hungry nobleman with close ties to the king. He wants tapestries depicting the glories of war, but the artist, Nicolas des Innocents --- who specializes in portraits of noblewomen --- convinces Le Viste that a series of tapestries about courtly love will still bring glory to the Le Viste name.<br />Nicolas himself is a womanizer --- the novel opens from his point of view, and we quickly learn that his amorous sights are set on Le Viste's teenage daughter, Claude. Much to the reader's surprise (and delight), when Claude narrates the next section of the novel we learn that she is just as lustful as Nicolas, and her prose just as bawdy. Needless to say, when Claude's family discovers their flirtation, her mother (who wants to be a nun) must concoct a plan to keep the would-be lovers apart. Claude is banished to a convent and Nicolas is sent to Brussels to supervise the weaving of the tapestries there.<br />This development helps highlight one of the key themes of the novel, which is the juxtaposition of the sacred and the profane. Chevalier's novel is at turns raunchy and rapturous, and this contrast applies not only to the tapestries themselves and to the characters involved in their creation, but also to the whole culture of late-medieval France.<br />In Brussels, Nicolas once again becomes woven up in a family drama, this time in the industrious Chapelle family of weavers. Their daughter Alienor is beautiful but blind, and they fear she must marry the rude and odiferous wool dyer, whom she can't stand. Nicolas and Alienor concoct a plan to save her from her fate while allowing Nicolas to do what he does best.<br />In addition to being a hugely entertaining romp through art history and medieval sexual politics, THE LADY AND THE UNICORN also includes a number of interesting details about the art of weaving. By the end of this book, you'll have not only a clear picture of medieval weaving equipment and techniques, but also a greater understanding of and appreciation for the tapestries themselves, and for the weavers whose stories were lost to history --- until Chevalier creatively brought them back to life.<br />--- Reviewed by Norah Piehl	2004-01-17
US	34387692	R12HV1QMOC4BL2	1579549276	751729331	My Prison Without Bars	Books	5	6	12	N	N	A Truly Fascinating Study of Denial	The title of this book, MY PRISON WITHOUT BARS, appears on a background of solid red, perhaps as a nod to the team on which Pete Rose earned his fame and infamy. On the back is a photo taken when he broke Ty Cobb's all-time hit record, showing him in an uncharacteristic display of emotion (\\"I'm not a warm-and-fuzzy kind of guy\\" is his mantra). It could also be a metaphor for the shame one might expect him to feel over his banishment from baseball for almost fifteen years.<m.<br />Ultimately, as Rose has maintained, he is the only one who really knows the whole story. He has been lying so long, why should the public believe him now? What can he really say to persuade a public anxious to welcome the return of baseball's prodigal son? <br />He concludes MY PRISON WITHOUT BARS with a left-handed regret: \\"I know I [messed] up. . . . I'm sorry it happened and I'm sorry for all the people, fans, and family that it hurt. Let's move on.\\"<br />Readers will undoubtedly interpret his story in different ways, depending on point of view. Some will agree that his vice is his own business and that he should be reinstated. Others might believe there is no excuse for his transgressions and demand his exile remain in place. Then there are those who might be more forgiving, believing that he did wrong, paid the price and should be forgiven.<br />Is this the final say on the matter? If he is ever allowed back into baseball's good graces, and into baseball's Valhalla, don't bet against another volume on the life of Pete Rose.<br />   --- Reviewed by Ron Kaplan	2004-01-17
US	34387692	R17T5UZWUB2KL	0385337132	625732713	The 37th Hour	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Fine, Unforgettable Debut from a Promising New Novelist	It's sad but true. There are some books that should be major bestsellers but are released to a resounding Flop! and barely see the light of day. They may acquire a quiet cult following, but they never achieve the notoriety, the fame, that they deserve. There are a number of reasons why this happens, though it can sometimes occur for no reason at all. One of my favorite novels, a little suspense novel titled KARMA by Mitchell Smith, may not even be in print anymore. Another book, a mystery titled THE DEATH OF THE DETECTIVE by Mark Smith (no relation, heh heh) contains some of the most memorable prose I have ever read. I know of two people, besides myself, who have ever read it.<br />THE 37TH HOUR by Jodi Compton is a fine, unforgettable debut. My goal is to make sure that people know about it, read it and remember it. And that they are still talking about it years from now, remembering the day that they first discovered her. <br />The title, THE 37TH HOUR, refers to the truism that after 36 hours it is nearly impossible to find a missing person, or at least find them still living. There are of course exceptions to that --- Elizabeth Smart being the most recent one --- but it generally holds true in those cases where someone goes missing as the result of the bad intent of another or by misadventure. In the case of this novel, it refers to Michael Shiloh, who disappears on the day that he is supposed to leave Minnesota for Quantico, Virginia to begin FBI training. Shiloh is the silent subject of much of THE 37TH HOUR, but the focus of the book is Minneapolis Detective Sarah Pribek, Shiloh's wife, who doggedly pursues the investigation of her husband's disappearance. Pribek is an enigmatic character, as ultimately is Shiloh.<br />As the story unfolds the reader learns how these two people after an initial encounter drifted slowly, almost reluctantly, toward a more permanent relationship. Pribek's quest takes her into Shiloh's past, including his estranged family. It isPribek's own past though that ultimately holds the key to Shiloh's mysterious disappearance. Pribek's investigation, however, uncovers secrets and ultimately acts as a catalyst that will change her life forever.<br />Compton's character development in THE 37TH HOUR is simply incredible. Pribek, almost from the opening page of her first person narration, gives the subtle impression that she is not entirely on balance. There is a reason for this --- she carries some baggage with her --- and her quietly odd relationship with Shiloh is but one manifestation of the quiet turmoil within her. As is occasionally noted in Alanon meetings, however, a \\"ten\\" doesn't marry a \\"two.\\" And by the conclusion of THE 37th HOUR, you won't know whether you should have stared or looked away. This is not an explosions-and-karate novel. Compton paints a complete picture, but very slowly, with a stroke here and a brush there, keeping things quietly simmering but always interesting.<br />THE 37TH HOUR is supposed to be the first of a series of Pribek novels, and it is a tribute to Compton's success and talent that readers of her book will sit on tenterhooks as they await what comes next. Meanwhile, THE 37TH HOUR will be read and reread, and will haunt the consciousness of its readers.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub	2004-01-17
US	34387692	R1514A79YZ83ES	0312318383	465822233	The Two Americas: Our Current Political Deadlock and How to Break It	Books	4	27	27	N	N	An Earnest and Interesting Book	Anyone who picks up a book on the current state of party politics in the U.S.A. is compelled to take note first of the author's political stance. Stanley B. Greenberg, author of THE TWO AMERICAS, was a pollster for Bill Clinton and Al Gore and a key member of Clinton's campaign team. He is married to a Democratic congresswoman from Connecticut.<br />The same full-disclosure mandate surely applies to reviewers of such books as well. OK, this reviewer is a registered Democrat, a senior citizen/retiree, middle-class, Catholic New Englander resident for many years in the Middle West.<br />Those preliminaries out of the way, perhaps we can get down to reviewing the book.<br />Greenberg starts with the obvious: the electorate is evenly divided between the two parties, a situation he regards as &quot;ugly&quot; and unhealthy. Each party sees the possibility of breaking the deadlock to its own advantage, but neither seems able to pull the trick off. Using the pollster's standard tools of interviews, focus groups and projections, he slices and dices both parties into interest groups according to age, education level, income, religious feelings and geographical distribution. His text is full of bar charts and &quot;thermometers&quot; that register the feelings of each sub-group on all sorts of questions. He traces the history of America's shifting political allegiances, in particular those of the past 50 years, a period when neither party was able to achieve any lasting dominance (or, to use his favorite word, &quot;hegemony&quot;).<br />Seeking out middle ground between the parties, he devotes special attention to three typical geographical areas where neither party dominates --- the suburbs east of Seattle, the farm country of central Iowa and suburbs around Tampa. Then he lays out a potential victory strategy for each party, and concludes that whichever one takes advantage of his insights will have victory within its grasp.<br />It is in this last section that Greenberg'sown bias is evident. His Republican victory strategy amounts largely to the GOP energizing its core loyalists and adding enough fringe voters to them to ensure a win. He convenes a fictional meeting of George W. Bush's campaign team at which Bush is largely a mute bystander, more interested in catching a baseball game on television. But for the Democrats, Greenberg lays out a detailed campaign platform designed to appeal to middle class and uncommitted voters whom he feels the party has lost in recent years. He believes the 2004 election will be decided fully as much on &quot;cultural&quot; issues (guns, religious feeling, education level, &quot;family values&quot;) as on substantive issues like health care or foreign policy.<br />He has critical things to say about each party's strategy in recent elections: the Republicans have pushed an agenda (tax cuts, small government) in which most voters are simply not interested, the Democrats have given up on the middle class, where much of their strength should lie. Many voters, he finds, are alienated from the Republicans but aren't attracted to the Democratic alternative.<br />All of this is certainly provocative. What one makes of it will depend largely on whether one thinks pollsters are the infallible seers they advertise themselves as, or just educated estimators of the public mood. I suspect the strategists of both parties will comb through this book for usable tactics, without necessarily swallowing it whole.<br />There are a number of factors in play that Greenberg either ignores or mentions only in passing. He has little or nothing to say about the obvious public alienation from politics in general reflected in declining turnout, the impact of television on modern campaigns, the rampant weakening of party loyalty out there beyond Washington D.C., the baleful influence of partisanship-driven redistricting, the obvious financial advantage held by the Republicans, the possible impact of additional campaign finance reform on future campaigns, or such a wild-card issue as abortion. And of course he is handicapped by not knowing as he writes the identity of the Democratic nominee for 2004.<br />This is an earnest and interesting book, one that political junkies (like me) will devour like manna from heaven. Much of its data, however, could be invalidated overnight by some unforeseen event or sudden shift in the political winds. It's still a long time until election day, folks.<br />   --- Reviewed by Robert Finn	2004-01-10
US	34387692	RIFW75NDCN5UU	0345461916	954371996	Last Call (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pedersen's Tale is Quite Simply a Charmer!	Hayden MacBride has been diagnosed with &quot;The Cancer.&quot; But this Scot --- the main character in Laura Pedersen's LAST CALL --- won't let dying get him down. He has always lived life to the fullest, with gusto and a sense of humor, and he is not about to change that now.<br />Living in the family home in Brooklyn with his daughter Diana and eleven-year-old grandson Joey, Hayden makes light of his situation whenever he can. &quot;Who's goin' to make sure I get cremated in me pajamas so that a good suit do'an' go to waste,&quot; he asks of his fretful and frustrated daughter.<br />His sense of humor is both persistent and contagious. Leaving the house for a so-called baseball game, he summons Joey with, &quot;C'mon now, we're off like a new bride's nightie.&quot; And Joey, devoted to his grandfather, is picking up some of the old man's habits. Joey bandies around barroom jokes like &quot;How do you get all the Highlanders (Scots) up on the roof?&quot; much to his mother's dismay. (The punch line: You tell 'em the drinks are on the house!)<br />Hayden spends his days circling obituaries in the paper, and then traveling from one stranger's funeral to the next, &quot;serious medical inquiry into the pros and cons of euthanasia,&quot; he calls it. He doesn't do it for the free &quot;petit fours.&quot;<br />If his daughter, who spends her free time searching out new treatments and cures for cancer, knew Hayden occupied his days with viewings, funerals and wakes --- and dragged her son along to boot --- she'd be mortified. Ah, &quot;relations are a willful lot,&quot; Hayden tells his grandson.<br />The other woman in Hayden's life is Rosamond, a nun on sabbatical from the convent, in search of her own answers. Hayden teaches Rosamond how to let loose and truly enjoy life outside the convent walls. They have a tender and bittersweet love for each other. Another romance blossoms, too: overprotective Diana falls in love also, with Hank, an architect toying with the ideaof the priesthood. And Hayden's Scottish circle of friends --- his diehard drinking buddies --- add another layer of humor and reality to this touching story.<br />Pedersen's LAST CALL is a funny tale about human foibles and faults, and a search for life, faith and love. It's a charmer, with characters as real as your own family.<br />   --- Reviewed by Roberta O'Hara	2004-01-10
US	34387692	R1GBS30RDW1BDM	0312304110	325974802	The Killing of the Tinkers: A Novel (Jack Taylor Series)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Ken Bruen's voice is tragically comedic and highly addictive	&quot;Leaving Galway, I'd left behind a string of deaths.... The investigation had led to.... Three murders. Four, if you count my best friend. My heart being hammered. Tons of cash. Exile.&quot;<br />Jack's back. Wisecracking ex-Garda Jack Taylor is back in Galway after a spell in London. He's brought little more than a coke habit back with him. Now, hanging out at his new favorite pub (defined: one that still allows him in), he tries to reclaim his drinking habit too. While he would prefer nothing more than to nurse a pint --- or, better yet, several pints --- and drown the woes of his Irish past, trouble finds him sitting there on that stool.<br />A tinker named Sweeper seeks him out and invokes a name from a death Jack looked into, the one that sent him fleeing Galway at the end of THE GUARDS. Jack tries to brush him off, but finds himself unable to turn away.<br />I said, &quot;Call me if you need anything.&quot;<BR>&quot;I need one thing, Jack Taylor.&quot;<BR>&quot;Name it.&quot;<BR>&quot;Find whoever's killing my people.&quot;<br />Sweeper tells Jack of several deaths among the young tinkers, and of the Garda's response: none. They're only tinkers, after all. He pays Jack well to find the killer. Whether Jack is actually up to the task is debatable at best.<br />There's always more to Jack Taylor's days than the pursuit of clues. He has friends with crises, strangers with more crises, and an abundance of his own personal crises. Most times, he faces all of these by getting drunk. To his credit, he manages to solve the mystery, despite some rather untidy side effects. The bulk of the entertainment isn't in Jack's sleuthing abilities, though, but in his interactions with others, be they friend, foe, authority figure, mom, wife, girlfriend, lad or lass. He is one idiosyncratic character, full of acerbic quotes: &quot;Lord knows, feeling bad is the skin I've worn almost all my life.&quot; Ken Bruen's dubious &quot;hero&quot; is the epitome of a guy you love to hate. Worse, though, he's the guy you hate to love, which you definitely do, at least in his role as the caustic, reluctant PI.<br />Last year I read THE GUARDS, wherein Bruen introduced Jack Taylor. I have spent many long months waiting for the second, all-too-short, installment of Taylor's adventures. Bruen writes with a unique, if unconventional, style that I find refreshing. Once you get into this book's rhythm, I think you will find it hard to return to stories with long, flowing sentences and showy descriptions. What a voice this author has! Not pretty, not happy, not uplifting, but tragically comedic and highly addictive.<br />   --- Reviewed by Kate Ayers	2004-01-10
US	34387692	R1VLSF0PLS42LA	0553802496	471304969	Odd Thomas	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Dean Koontz Continues to be THE Master	More often than not, when the name &quot;Dean Koontz&quot; comes up in conversation with people who are on the downside of middle age, they will profess an unfamiliarity with his recent work. They will list DARKFALL, LIGHTNING, PHANTOMS or any one of a dozen or so Koontz titles among their favorite novels, but at some point --- for whatever reason --- they fell off after that. This is more than unfortunate; for Koontz, at a time when his contemporaries choose to retread, remake and remodel past glories, is doing some of the most mature, intriguing and innovative work of his career.<br />ODD THOMAS is the latest exhibit offered as proof of that proposition. The title is the name of the novel's narrator and protagonist; first name &quot;Odd,&quot; last name &quot;Thomas,&quot; how do you do. Thomas is a resident of the tiny municipality of Pico Mundo in Southern California. He is simple, as that term is applied to his life, or perhaps the term underachiever would be more appropriate. Or then again, not. Thomas is employed as a short order diner cook and is an expert in such matters. His plans for the future consist of moving on to tire sales, or perhaps selling shoes, when he grows weary of facing the griddle.<br />But what Thomas does is not what he is. Thomas can see the dead, the spirits who are restless for one reason or another. And he can also see bodachs. Bodachs are creatures --- something more and less than spirits --- that are drawn to the scene of unusual death and disaster. And Thomas, as he prepares the simple orders at the Pico Mundo equivalent of Waffle House, sees bodachs flocking around a particular customer, a stranger who appears to be the focal point of some unnamed, unknown disaster that will strike Pico Mundo within 24 hours. And Thomas, during the intervening period, is going to do everything he can to prevent the disaster, whatever it is.<br />All that he has to guide him is a troubling, recurring dream and the assistance of his friends, a group of individuals who are as unusual as he is. There are, among others, Stormy Llewellyn, Thomas' soul mate; Little Ozzie, a four hundred pound genius with a 58-year-old cat (pictorial evidence submitted upon request); and Wyatt Porter, Pico Mundo's chief of police. All, in their own way, are peculiar. All are unforgettable. And --- speaking of unforgettable --- the ghost of Elvis, weeping for Thomas, is here as well. You will know why by the conclusion of the novel.<br />ODD THOMAS has echoes within its pages of past masters. There are memorable, if brief, homages to H.P. Lovecraft, Ray Bradbury, Sherwood Anderson, Theodore Sturgeon, and others herein. Yet it is clearly and uniquely an original, a quietly haunting morality tale that beckons to be embraced and deserves to be studied. Koontz, astoundingly, continues to challenge his readers and himself, and in doing so with ODD THOMAS may well have published the penultimate novel of his career.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub	2003-12-20
US	34387692	ROTZKJTMEAPFT	0743246543	674282901	General Washington's Christmas Farewell: A Mount Vernon Homecoming, 1783	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Deeply Emotional Journey Home	During this holiday season, replete with the comfort of &quot;snow and mistletoe and presents under the tree,&quot; it's difficult to conceive of a time when things weren't so easy, when life was a struggle for survival and America, as a social and political entity, was just developing.<br />Holiday movies remind us of Christmases past in a nostalgic haze, but one of the most important of all Noels took place over 200 years ago, bestowing the greatest of presents: the gifts of freedom. It was under such circumstances that George Washington, his battles won and his military work done, began his well-deserved trip home in time for the holidays.<br />Stanley Weintraub, author of several books on military history, renders a most moving portrait in GENERAL WASHINGTON'S CHRISTMAS FAREWELL. Indeed, it does move, taking the reader from the battlefields of the east to the &quot;greatest man's&quot; home and family in Mount Vernon, Virginia. Having led his troops in victory over the British forces, the future president was the object of high approbation, bordering on worship. There were those among the founding fathers who would have made Washington king of the new nation, but he declined, declaring that the new nation would have no monarchy. (A pale modern-day comparison might be a sports figure legend like Cal Ripken, Jr., bidding goodbye to fans in each stadium during his final season.) <br />Weintraub follows the slow, emotional journey made by Washington and his entourage, through New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, on their way to Philadelphia, the seat of the colonial Congress at the time. It was there, in settings most formal, that the general relinquished his commission. <br />The author often compares Washington to the Roman general Cincinnatus, who, like his latter-day counterpart, looked forward to laying down his sword and returning to his lands. Washington's patriotism had come at great personal sacrifice, including financial &quot;inconvenience,&quot; although he steadfastly refused any payment other than &quot;expenses.&quot;<br />What sets GENERAL WASHINGTON'S CHRISTMAS FAREWELL apart from similar books about the father of our country is its depth of emotion. The affection and admiration in which Washington was held by his officers, soldiers and the general citizenry were unparalleled. Weintraub writes of tears shed unabashedly as Washington delivered his famous farewell address, and of the great man's similar difficulties in maintaining composure.<br />The author has done his homework well, as befits an Evan Pugh Professor Emeritus of Arts and Humanities from Penn State University. In addition to items of importance, he includes bits of the seemingly trivial --- such as the costs of room and board --- which help put the times in perspective as well as add a note of levity.<br />With modern America's penchant for taking many of its gifts for granted, Weintraub has done well to remind readers of the early price of their current overall social and political well-being.<br />   --- Reviewed by Ron Kaplan	2003-12-20
US	34387692	R4C3U50HE81QX	034546673X	829769989	A Christmas Journey	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Delightful Victorian Mystery	Just in time for Christmas, for the fans of the Thomas and Charlotte Pitt mystery series, Anne Perry has constructed a delightful Victorian mystery featuring one of its more interesting characters, Lady Vespasia Cumming-Gould.<br />Lady Vespasia is entertaining her highborn friends at Applecross for a holiday weekend of games, good food and romance, when one of her guests commits suicide --- the victim of the waspish tongue of another. The group is stunned and outraged and demands some sort of revenge. At the urging of her good friend, Omegus Jones, Vespasia suggests to the somewhat less than recalcitrant harpy that perhaps she should atone for her foul deed with an unusual act of expiation. In front of the gathered group, she suggests that she should embark on the long and possibly dangerous journey to northern Scotland to inform the victim's mother of her daughter's sad demise. Not only that, but she should bring the grieving mother back to attend.<br />In order to make certain this task of medieval origins is completed, Vespasia offers to accompany her friend on the journey. Vespasia, her friend, the victim and her mother are revealed to have secrets in their pasts that come to light as the journey progresses. Perhaps the suicide is something more than meets the eye.<br />Perry spins a tale of intrigue lavishly adorned with Victoriana and moral conundrums. One almost wishes that expiation were a way of meting out deserved punishment in our times.<br />   --- Reviewed by Roz Shea	2003-12-20
US	34387692	R18HW9X8D69MQ3	140004930X	596030198	The Babes in the Wood: A Chief Inspector Wexford Mystery	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Twisted, Suspenseful and Totally Absorbing Tale	&quot;It was raining. But as [Chief Inspector Wexford] had remarked to Burden some four hours before, rain was no longer news ... the exciting thing worthy of comment was when it wasn't raining.&quot; Residents of the towns and villages were at the mercy of swelling streams, lakes and ponds that were swollen beyond ... &quot;anything [that had ever been seen] in this part of Sussex&quot; and no relief was in sight. The flooding was at disaster level, looting was beginning to emerge and anxiety rose in stages, as did the waterways.<br />Wexford and Burden have appeared as a cop-buddy team for years in Ruth Rendell's police procedurals. They are like an old married couple comfortable in their knowledge of each other's strong and weak points, and they have a healthy respect for each other that is enhanced by trust and affection. Thus, when Burden opened the office door he said, &quot;I've just heard a crazy thing, thought it might amuse you. He seated himself on the corner of the desk, a favorite perch&quot; and reported that a &quot;... woman phoned to say she and her husband went to Paris for the weekend, leaving their children with a --- well, a teen-sitter, I suppose. The couple got back late last night to find the lot gone and naturally she assumes they've drowned.&quot;<br />&quot;Dade. They are called Giles and Sophia Dade. The teenagers are fifteen and thirteen, the sitter's in her thirties, they can all swim&quot; and are not anywhere near the flooded out areas. Joanna Troy, their mother's friend was the sitter ... &quot;who was spending the weekend in their house to keep an eye on the two kids.&quot; They have been missing &quot;possibly since Friday evening when the parents left.&quot; Wexford finds this less than amusing and listens as Burden remarks: &quot;It's pretty bizarre, isn't it?&quot; On his way home, as Wexford thinks back over the day, he is struck with the realization that &quot;All this nonsense about floods and drowning had obscured for him the central issue. Two children, aged fifteen and thirteen, were missing.&quot; Thus begins the case of THE BABES IN THE WOOD, Ruth Rendell's nineteenth Inspector Wexford mystery novel.<br />As the investigation slowly moves into action the team begins to wonder what &quot;really&quot; is going on with this family. The mother is a neurotic wreck who weeps buckets of tears ... &quot;a woman who would assume that her children had drowned, just because they weren't there and part of the town (not even close to their house) was flooded, had to be --- well, to put it charitably, somewhat scatterbrained.&quot; After a short visit to interview them Burden reports to Wexford: &quot;She cries all the time. It's weird. It's pathological.&quot; The father is a rude bully and a crude workaholic who has no time to waste looking for his children, who he says are obviously missing out of spite ... to torture their parents.<br />A parallel thread begins to emerge when not too long after the search for the Dade children and Ms. Troy gets underway, a young landowner is walking on his property in &quot;Toxborough&quot; which &quot;... lays Northeast of Kingsmarkham, just over the Kentish border, but the Sussex side of the Mao.&quot; Peter Buxton is proud of his acreage even though he and his impossible wife rarely spend time upon it: &quot;Originally intending to retreat there every Friday evening and return to London on Monday morning, Buxton soon found that ... the traffic on Fridays after four in the afternoon ... was appalling.&quot; Moreover, their social life in the city was conducted on weekends. Thus, more than a month had passed since the couple had come to Passingham Hall.<br />One of the attractions of the Buxton property is a large &quot;clearing ... the open space in the center of the wood. It was ... to this clearing&quot; that Peter was making his way, when he noticed &quot;the ruts a car's tires make were deeply etched into the gravelly earth of the track.&quot; Clearlythey were not new and this kind of trespass infuriated the Buxtons. Peter decided to follow the rutted track up to the quarry, an ancient and now overgrown chalk deposit where it was obvious that a vehicle had gone over. A dark blue car lay on its side but hadn't fully turned over. As he stared in anger and amazement he slowly became aware of the smell emanating from the wreck in the quarry.<br />When Ruth Rendell plans the architecture of her novels, she is careful to limn the details even as she presents the larger, more obvious events. In THE BABES IN THE WOOD she has painted a large canvas with a twisted, suspenseful and totally absorbing tale of dysfunctional families, children and parents who hate each other, the venom that destroys relationships rooted in lies and betrayals, the inscrutable personalities that populate the world and often make it an unpleasant place. But, at the same time, she balances this dim view of humanity with the positive dynamics of the Wexford family, and with the public servants who devote their lives to undo the damage done by the &quot;dark ones.&quot;<br />Rendell fans will find her latest Wexford addition a great read, and those new to her work will be able to pick up the series without any trouble. The series characters have evolved and changed over the years because she manages to keep pace with the world, which allows her to bring a fresh, new and more mature ensemble to each book. One of Rendell's greatest assets is her ability to catch readers up with her familiar cast without slowing the pace of the plot or her snappy prose. THE BABES IN THE WOOD is a must for mystery fans who appreciate fine writing, believable characters and a well-structured plot.<br />   --- Reviewed by Barbara Lipkien Gershenbaum	2003-12-20
US	34387692	R2EHK1N4EG4IS7	0380976706	21872151	The Orion Protocol	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Ultimate White-Knuckle Thriller	Gary Tigerman's debut science fiction novel, THE ORION PROTOCOL, is so good it should come with hot buttered popcorn.<br />THE ORION PROTOCOL is everything a science fiction novel should be and thensome. Tigerman's main characters, former Apollo astronauts Commander Jake Deaver and Colonel Augie Blake, nearly 30 years after NASA's final voyage to the Moon in 1973, have kept silent about their findings until journalist Angela Browning receives a mysterious computer disk from an anonymous source.<br />The disk reveals images of Mars believed to be taken from the Mars Observer, an actual spacecraft sent to explore the surface of the Red Planet in 1992. While NASA reported that the spacecraft, manned by scientists at Kennedy Space Center, was lost due to an explosion, Tigerman's book sheds new light on the possibility of a conspiracy by the U.S. government concerning the real story behind the lost orbital.<br />This fascinating novel isn't just about unrevealed findings on the Moon or top secret images taken from Mars; it is also the unveiling of Project Orion, a supposed space defense system posing as an innocuous satellite. The book speaks volumes to conspiracy theorists in terms of America's efforts from the start of NASA to do whatever it takes to shed from the public the possibility of extraterrestrial life forms inhabiting other planets, namely the Moon or Mars.<br />As far back as the Eisenhower administration in 1958, at the dawn of NASA, the Brookings Report, a blue-ribbon study approved by Congress and authored by Margaret Meade, stated that any type of extraterrestrial intelligence could impose chaos to the American public. At the end of the novel, Tigerman includes a note from the author about his subsequent factual findings during his research that keeps the conspiracy wheels churning.<br />Furthermore, THE ORION PROTOCOL touches on the subject of a free press in America and how the press has to fight like dogs to get the truth from the federal government as portrayed by Browning's character. The author, a screenwriter living in Los Angeles, also does a remarkable job with the dialogue --- particularly near the novel's gripping and powerful end --- making this tale the ultimate white-knuckle thriller.<br />   --- Reviewed by David Exum	2003-12-20
US	34387692	R1HLSSJBWXU3FA	0767912098	843719464	Cosmopolitan: A Bartender's Life	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A Delightfully Entertaining and Insightful Memoir	&quot;A situation of urban comfort&quot; is one of the definitions Merriam-Webster gives for the word &quot;civilization.&quot; A sure sign of civilization is the presence of a tavern, saloon or pub --- a bar. Certainly, what goes on inside these establishments will occasionally resemble something from humankind's knuckle dragging past. But the existence and popularity of commercial establishments dedicated to the ritualistic preparation and distribution of alcoholic beverages is a reassuring indication that as members of the human race we share a common desire for &quot;a situation of urban comfort.&quot; On the rocks, up, twist, no twist, or even just tonic without the vodka, thank you, the bar is both evidence of and an escape from whatever passes these days for civilization.<br />That the tavern plays a vital role in the human experience can be argued over cocktails. But Toby Cecchini, author of COSMOPOLITAN: A Bartender's Life, understands the bar as a common and familiar stage on which the human experience plays out. His delightfully entertaining and insightful memoir offers plentiful evidence of his appreciation for the complex juxtaposition of tradition, ritual, fantasy, reality, irony and expectation that are the DNA of any drinking establishment.<br />Cecchini takes very seriously the role and responsibilities of the bartender: the craft, skill and knowledge that come into play behind the bar, and the subtle (and sometimes not so subtle) manipulations necessary to exert some semblance of control over what goes on in front of it. But he also has the sharp wit, keen eye and sense of fun to see the entertainment value in a job that requires his professionalism to remain intact while his customers gleefully rid themselves of that particular burden.<br />He clearly loves the job. This affection, coupled with a writing style that combines hip downtown street wisdom with uptown eloquence and sophistication, makes COSMOPOLITAN: A Bartender's Life as welcome and inviting a slice of urban comfort as the crackle of ice in a tumbler of good scotch.<br />   --- Reviewed by Bob Rhubart	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R1XOCKQ72K4WV0	1400040752	17335739	Black Maps (John March Mysteries)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Fast-Paced Read from a Promising Debut Novelist	BLACK MAPS by Peter Spiegelman revolves around extortion, money laundering, insider banking businesses, drugs, arms dealing and mortal threats.<br />\\"Merchant's Worldwide Bank was the largest of several dozens of institutions owned by a Luxembourg company ... it was the largest criminally controlled financial services firm that anyone's ever heard of. Money laundering was their leading service [with] entities [so] structured [and] twisted you'd need an army of accountants just to draw the org charts. It was unique in scale and scope ... but it started coming apart ... when the number two guy at a regional bank ... tried to buy drugs from a DEA agent.\\"<br />This is the story presented to John March P.I. by his friend, attorney Mike Metz, in front of Rick Pierro, the lawyer's client, who has received a threatening missive that has him terrified. The memo implies that twenty years ago Pierro was involved with Gerard Nassouli, the mastermind behind the illegal set-up: \\"In the letter [addressed to] Emilio Dias, who had apparently been the treasurer and CFO of Textiles Pan-Europa ... Nassouli reports that he has been dealing with a 'sympathetic' and 'flexible' banker ... who will help to establish a credit facility for Textiles' U.S. [an MWB] subsidiary.\\" The name of the cooperative banker is Rick Pierro and the memo implies that he \\"was party to fraud.\\"<br />March listens to Pierro's story before he decides to takes the case. His mission, should he accept it, is to find the person who sent the \\"blackmail\\" note and to determine exactly what s/he wants. The investigator is convinced that he has not been told the entire truth, but he needs the case. He wants to help his old friend, Metz, and is intrigued by a client willing to pay blackmail to keep the slightest impression of his involvement in illegal activities quiet. Pierro appears to be on the up-and-up on the surface and he is definitely quaking in his shoes over the memo: \\"My career ... has always been at risk ... it's been an uphill battle for me ... [but] now I'm where the air is thin, John: the executive committee.\\" With a large family to support and major financial obligations, Pierro can't afford to be under the shadow of anything that would besmirch his reputation.<br />Since the executive committee doesn't meet for five weeks to determine who their new members will be, March takes the files and the notes with a promise to read them thoroughly. Then, he will let the men know if he will help this frightened man whose life is suddenly at the mercy of an unknown thug.<br />After reading the case files, Mike has more information than he expected to muster about MWB, but has no clues as to who might be trying to squeeze Pierro. This is where his investigating skills come in. He needs the names of everyone who had access to the bank's documents twenty years ago and all of the people currently associated with anything that Pierro put work into.<br />White-collar crime is usually subtle and insidious. The perpetrators do their deeds over many years. With each year that passes they become more and more arrogant. They have intricate ways of insulating themselves and create paper trails that lead to others rather than themselves. BLACK MAPS is strongest when Spiegelman sends his detective into the back rooms and under the radar of the \\"money industry.\\"<br />Spiegelman is a new author who has been able to fulfill his reader's expectations for a fast-paced read the first time out. He has chosen a timely and interesting issue with a very attractive and likeable hero in John March. The plot is fast-paced and has enough suspense to satisfy the most ardent fan of the thriller. He is sure to attract readers who will be eager to see his next offering, hopefully starring John March, P.I.<br />   --- Reviewed by Barbara Lipkien Gershenbaum	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R119MSCPOJI75O	0812971523	751639231	Spygirl: True Adventures from My Life as a Private Eye	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Irreverent and Intriguing Memoir	For the legions of former Nancy Drew devotees comes SPYGIRL, Amy Gray's irreverent and intriguing memoir of her three-year stint as a real-life New York City private eye. Combining tales of the author's trials and tribulations tracking down scam artists with entertaining stories of her dating hijinks, SPYGIRL is both a voyeuristic reading pleasure about life and love in the big city and a primer for aspiring gumshoes.<br />Yearning for adventure and an escape from \\"corporate hell,\\" Gray abandons her low-paying and demoralizing job as a publishing assistant to pursue her childhood dream of becoming a sleuth. Despite the squalid, rat-infested office conditions and an eccentric cast of mostly male co-workers, Gray is in her element at her new job and she plunges into her investigative work with a Harriet the Spy-like devotion to the truth.<br />But anyone expecting action-packed, suspenseful stories of elaborate subterfuge, tense stakeouts and armed confrontations will come away disappointed. Gray quickly debunks the myth of the glamorous world of the PI as we learn that modern-day private investigators do most of their work armed with nothing more than a computer and multiple databases. Sleuthing seems to be decidedly more mundane than the word connotes, concerned mainly with exposing white-collar criminals and fraudulent companies through background checks, sophisticated computer research and skillful phone interviewing.<br />Indeed, Gray's investigations are largely of the run-of-the-mill variety, such as unraveling a phony investment scam being perpetrated by a prison inmate or following the paper trail of a check kiter who plans elaborate weddings without paying for them. Gray's witty observations, stylish writing and crackling dialogue goes a long way at making what could be rather tedious cases come alive on the page, but the narrative loses steam in places where she spends too much time dwelling on mundane aspects of the job.<br />The real strength of the booklies in her characterizations of the quirky people she encounters both in life and at work --- bizarre colleagues such as Assman, aptly named because of an unfortunately placed cyst, and her short-lived boyfriend Edward, who eats emu and is a fanatical devotee of MTV's The Real World. She is also adept at portraying to great humorous effect the mine-filled terrain of dating and relationships, in the vein of a younger, hipster version of Sex and the City's Carrie Bradshaw.<br />Like Carrie, the author navigates her tumultuous love life with a blend of keen insight, biting wit and the aid of a few good friends and strong cocktails. But her romantic undoing comes when her maniacal determination to ferret out the truth at all costs seeps from the professional into the personal. It is only when she lets down her guard and allows herself to trust her feelings over facts that she is able to have a chance at real happiness.<br />With its requisite urban twenty-something protagonist searching for love and career satisfaction, SPYGIRL is an entertaining entry in the new breed of reality-based Chick Lit. But its smart, ironic voice and brash, truth-seeking heroine elevate it beyond the genre, and it perfectly succeeds at capturing the loneliness, ennui and optimism of a youthful generation.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joni Rendon	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R1QSC7NFG6W932	0312305311	864133378	Obsessed (Peter Zak Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An Entertaining Mystery Resumes This Fine Series	I am at once fascinated with and repelled by the technological advances in medicine. Let me clarify that. I'm fascinated with non-invasive technological advances and repelled by the invasive ones. I spent my childhood in terror of rectal thermometers. When I recently took my daughter (the six-year-old, three-foot tall antichrist) to the doctor, the thermometer was a Star Trek doohickey that was stuck into her ear canal for a nanosecond and provided a digital readout.<br />A bout of pneumonia I experienced a few years ago was resolved with medication and without the hospitalization it would have required twenty or so years ago. But a prostate gland examination still requires a ... well, prostate gland examination. And a bloodd test requires extraction with a hypodermic needle. My last doctor visit ended with my being informed that we'd be doing blood work next month. My thought was, \\"No we're not.\\" That was two years ago. I'm waiting for some sort of gadget that Gene Roddenberry dreamed up years ago, where I lay down on a table or stand in a booth for twenty seconds and get diagnosed and cured all at once. Which brings us to OBSESSED. And MRIs.<br />MRIs are those wonderful diagnostic machines that are the bane of claustrophobics. They make the patient feel as if they're being stuffed down a clothes dryer loaded with athletic shoes. I believe I've seen advertisements for open MRIs (back to Star Trek and that diagnostic table) but I'm also fairly certain that they have somewhat limited utility. OBSESSED, however, is concerned with the mothership of all MRIs.<br />OBSESSED is the fourth in G.H. Ehpron's fine series concerning psychologist Dr. Peter Zak, who balances his career with his resolving but residual grief over the murder of his wife and the ups and downs of his relationship with Annie Squires. OBSESSED finds Zak attempting to help a co-worker who is being stalked by an unknown individual. The co-worker is Dr. Emily Ryan, who Zak is supervising during her postdoctorate period while she works part-time at Pearce Psychiatric Institute. The stalker's anonymous acts continue to escalate, and Zak is becoming increasingly concerned about where, and when, the violence will end.<br />Ryan, meanwhile, is splitting her time and attention between Pearce and University Medical Imaging Center, which is performing revolutionary research in the diagnosis and treatment of Lewy body dementia. The driving force behind this research is Dr. Jim Shands and a new, extremely powerful MRI unit. When Zak is given the opportunity to witness the powerful MRI in action, he jumps at the chance. He also finds that the trail of Ryan's stalker seems to lead back to UMIC.<br />Zak is further drawn back to UMIC when Squires's uncle begins to exhibit signs of dementia and is considered potentially to be afflicted with Lewy body dementia, a provisional diagnosis that makes him a candidate for MRI study. When one of UMIC's associate physicians is killed in a suspicious accident, Zak is slowly drawn into a self-driven investigation of UMIC and Shands. Zak discovers that the Lewy body dementia patients who have been evaluated at UMIC seem to be experiencing premature morbidity and that Ryan's still-unknown stalker may be linked to it.<br />Ephron (a pseudonym for a writing duo consisting of a journalist and a forensic psychologist) continues to do an excellent job of melding medical and psychological issues with entertaining mystery plots while simultaneously developing Zak's life and personality. The moral and ethical issues that Zak encounters in his professional and personal life are real and true to life --- the occasional difficulties in his relationship with Squires ring especially true, as does his almost involuntary attraction to Ryan in OBSESSED --- and bode well for future novels from Ephron. Zak is complex enough as a character that readers of this series will look forward to his return, and Ephron's, for some time to come.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R390D6P50FBO6G	0060082879	190627498	A Splendor of Letters: The Permanence of Books in an Impermanent World	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Informative and Entertaining	Nicholas A. Basbanes has a love affair going with the printed word. Not just the book --- the printed word, be it chiseled on stone 2,000 years ago, scrawled on wallpaper, palm leaves or cloth, or even imprinted on a computer screen the day before yesterday.<br />That is the main message delivered in this, the third of a trio of books he has written celebrating the triumphs, tragedies, perils and potentialities of print. A SPLENDOR OF LETTERS, a kind of miscellaneous grab bag of print-talk, was preceded by A GENTLE MADNESS (1995) and PATIENCE & FORTITUDE (2001). Truly, a man obsessed with his subject.<br />A SPLENDOR OF LETTERS is a book full of fascinating bits of information on all sorts of subjects relating to the printed word. This is at once its main attraction and its principal drawback. Much of the information packed into these pages is interesting in itself, but the book has no single overarching theme, seemingly no real purpose except to display the author's enthusiasm and interest for his subject.<br />Among the many topics touched upon in this bag of scholarly/literary potato chips are the disappearance of many important texts produced by ancient civilizations; the question of whether a modern copy of an ancient book can or should replace the original; the wanton destruction of valuable libraries in places like ancient Carthage, Nazi Germany, Sarajevo, Cambodia and Tibet; the morality of physically mutilating books in order to turn their valuable illustrations into objects of commerce; the morality of breaking up great library collections so their contents can be sold off for cash to meet current needs; the best means of preserving printed records for the longest time; and --- inevitably --- the already looming question of whether electronic books will make the familiar object we hold in our hands today a mere museum curiosity anytime soon.<br />Basbanes tries hard to be objective about all of this. He has sought out people on all sides of every questionhe considers --- but his sympathies obviously seem in the end to lie with the preservationists and the physical book rather than with its electronic doppelganger.<br />Every new development in the advancement of print has been greeted, he assures us, by people who saw it as the end of literature. He has resurrected a Medieval monk named Johannes Trithemius, who urged his fellow monks not to stop copying manuscripts by hand just because printing had been invented (\\"The written word on parchment will last a thousand years. The printed word is on paper. How long will it last? The most you can expect a book of paper to survive is two hundred years...\\"). And even so modest a modern forward step as the idea of equipping pencils with rubber erasers rang alarm bells among educators (\\"the easier errors may be corrected, the more errors will be made\\").<br />Basbanes seems thoroughly at home rummaging around in the distant past to describe fascinating documentary finds in odd corners of Egypt, Pakistan and similar remote places. His tales of great modern-day book collectors are also interesting. And he devotes much of the latter part of his book to the computer-vs.-physical book controversy, reporting for instance that computer files are proving to be a terrible means of preserving data because the swift pace of technological advance in computerdom quickly makes obsolete whatever machines could read them when they were created. And he has uncovered a delightful quote from someone named W. T. Williams back in the 1980s --- that is, in computer terms, back in prehistoric times: \\"Man is the only computer yet designed which can be produced entirely by unskilled labor.\\"<br />A SPLENDOR OF LETTERS is informative and entertaining. The only problem with it is trying to answer the question: What, exactly, is it about?<br />--- Reviewed by Robert Finn	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R3NSVASIJUR43U	0312304927	955786668	Barbados Heat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Incredibly Fast-Paced Tale	One of the joys of reading is being able to pick up a novel by an author with whom you're not familiar and finding yourself, hours later, with the book firmly in hand, unable to put it down. I recently had that experience with Don Bruns and BARBADOS HEAT.<br />There is really no excuse for my unfamiliarity with Bruns. Bruns's home base is Lima, Ohio (like the bean, not the city in Peru), only a couple of hours away from where I sit right now. I've been to Lima many times; my winter trips there help me to understand why Bruns spends a good deal of time in the Caribbean and why he sets his novels there. JAMAICA BLUE, his first novel, introduced rock music journalist Mick Sever, and BARBADOS HEAT heralds his, and Bruns's, return. You don't need to be familiar with JAMAICA BLUE to enjoy or follow the events of BARBADOS HEAT, though you'll certainly want to become familiar with the former once you've finished reading the latter.<br />Bruns is a master storyteller. His background in advertising is evident in the way he sets things up and moves the reader right along. He does not write cookie cutter mysteries, however. BARBADOS HEAT is a complex story wherein the misdeeds of the past suddenly and dramatically affect the present.<br />The book begins with the murder of Congressman Robert Shapply. Shapply, a former music mogul who has seen the light and the error of his past ways, is on the verge of holding Congressional hearings concerning the content of rap music lyrics. Shapply's past business dealings --- particularly, his penchant for ripping off his former clients --- mean that the police are not lacking for suspects. Almost immediately, however, Nicky Brand, Shapply's stepson, and a rapper named Chilli D are accused of the murder. The case appears to be airtight; there is bad blood between Shapply and Brand because of Shapply's past business dealings, and the murder weapon is found in Chilli D's possession. The fact that Chilli D is heavily in debt to Brand, and thatShapply's hearings had the potential to permanently damage both of their careers, only makes matters worse.<br />Mick Sever, on the verge of a long-awaited vacation, initially turned down the opportunity to cover Shapply's hearings for a tabloid. But when Shapply is murdered, Sever is reluctantly drawn into the mix not only because of his curiosity but also because of his former friendship with Brand, a friendship that was irrevocably ruined when Brand's and Shapply's business practices almost drove Sever into bankruptcy. Sever's old friend Tony &quot;T-Beau&quot; Beauregard is there to help, as he also has a stake in the matter, being Chilli D's manager. Sever additionally recruits Ginny, his ex-wife, ostensibly to assist him with research. He is also, however, motivated by his own unresolved feelings for Ginny. Sever is almost convinced of Chilli D's guilt and Brand's culpability. But when Shapply's chauffeur is also murdered, it becomes obvious that there are other issues and individuals involved.<br />Sever, with the help of T-Beau, begins an investigation that leads from Washington D.C. to Sarasota, Florida, and ultimately down to Barbados, where a decades-old killing of a young girl holds the key to the motive behind the Congressman's murder and places Sever, T-Beau and Ginny in terrible danger.<br />BARBADOS HEAT is an incredibly fast-paced tale. Its complex plot would suffer in lesser hands. Bruns, however, is a master at keeping things moving, rendering the difficult easily understandable. This book will put Bruns's name on the 'A' List of many readers, and deservedly so. Highly recommended.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub	2003-12-06
US	34387692	RPLFQ4BZ9TYY2	0060565578	377441418	Christmas, Present	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Poignant, Uplifting and Inspiring Christmas Story	In the vein of Donna VanLiere's THE CHRISTMAS SHOES and Richard Paul Evans's THE CHRISTMAS BOX, bestselling author Jacquelyn Mitchard (THE DEEP END OF THE OCEAN, A THEORY OF RELATIVITY) has penned a slim but poignant Christmas story that captures perfectly the true spirit of the season. Dramas of familial crises and grief are Mitchard's trademark fare, and this slender novella of love, loss and letting go is no exception.<br />CHRISTMAS, PRESENT expertly blends the sad and sentimental with the uplifting and inspiring, and somehow manages to be both heartwarming and heart wrenching at the same time. Elliott and his wife of 14 years, Laura, are on their way home from their anniversary celebration two days before Christmas when a searing pain in Laura's head forces an abrupt visit to the local hospital. The pain turns out to be far more than an ordinary migraine and they soon learn the horrible truth that Laura has a fatal, inoperable brain hemorrhage that leaves her with mere hours to live.<br />As her family gathers around from near and far on Christmas Eve, Laura shares with them loving memories of a life well-lived and she bestows on them her blessings and hopes for the future. Her good-byes to her beloved husband and three daughters are particularly fraught with emotion. However we are saved from over-the-top sentimentality thanks to Laura's serene, reflective demeanor and Mitchard's straightforward prose. Laura's legacy to her shocked and grief-stricken family is giving them the gift and promise of the future by encouraging them to live life to the fullest in her absence. The final chapter provides an uplifting respite from the novel's weighty sadness, as we glimpse into the future and see Elliott and their daughters living out Laura's dying wish for them to visit Paris.<br />Mitchard perfectly captures the utter heartache and devastation of losing a loved one while imparting a powerful message that we all need to be reminded of sometimes: life is best when shared with those you love, and it is these shared moments that make for a rich, satisfying existence rather than material possessions or achievements.<br />The only real downside to the book is its brevity, which is a dramatic departure from the meatier, lengthy books Mitchard is known for. Although it's perfect for reading in one sitting during the time-crunched holidays, the subject matter packs such an emotional punch that the abbreviated format doesn't quite do it justice and the storyline isn't as fully realized as it could have been. The result is that it feels like a mere snapshot taken from a larger novel, and the resolution feels rushed and breathless, like a race to the finish line, instead of a thought-provoking and contemplative finale that provides true closure.<br />Nonetheless, CHRISTMAS, PRESENT will touch your soul and warm your heart, and it makes a perfect little gift for yourself or someone you love.<br />   --- Reviewed by Joni Rendon	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R3T4Q3E1DDKSQP	0316614300	171825797	Not the End of the World	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Not Atkinson's best, but a grand ride nonetheless	I'm willing to bet that Kate Atkinson didn't color inside the lines when she was a little girl. She's a born subversive, and her charming, alarming, crazy quilt fiction catches the reader off-balance. &quot;Normal&quot; categories get messed with: Realism morphs without warning into fantasy; past, present and future are melded and skewed; people are never quite what they seem. These qualities shone in her first and most brilliant book, BEHIND THE SCENES AT THE MUSEUM (the Whitbread Book of the Year in 1995), as well as in two other novels (HUMAN CROQUET and EMOTIONALLY WEIRD), and they are equally evident in NOT THE END OF THE WORLD, a collection of 12 stories.<br />The narratives are neither clearly connected nor totally distinct (Atkinson doesn't do anything conventionally). Occasionally she recycles characters: The sullen adolescents whom she evokes with absolutely perfect pitch in &quot;Dissonance&quot; reappear, a few years older but still obnoxious, in &quot;Wedding Favors.&quot; More frequently, though, a featured player in one story becomes a peripheral character in another; members of the Zane family, a large American clan, thread their way in and out of several tales, as do a self-absorbed celebrity mom and a nanny who is a worthy successor to Mary Poppins. Detecting these links is wonderfully diverting for the reader --- kind of like a Chinese puzzle --- and it also has the effect of unifying the collection. Atkinson's people all seem to inhabit more or less the same eccentric universe, which is Scotland (she lives in Edinburgh) and at the same time another place: more mysterious, less nameable.<br />Usually I prefer my &quot;magical&quot; and my &quot;realism&quot; well separated, like carrots and peas on a dinner plate. But Atkinson is so adept and her narrative voice so persuasive that after a while I began to enjoy the sudden shifts from ordinary life to fairy tale, from anxiety to horror, from a bad day to the end of the world. Perhaps her inspiration here is the cult show Buffy the Vampire Slayer (to which the characters in several stories are hopelessly addicted), an odd hybrid of teen TV fare and spookier, more complex life-and-death drama. Take &quot;Temporal Anomaly,&quot; wherein a lawyer named Marianne has an unusual out-of-body experience, or the amazing consequences when a woman without a boyfriend adopts a stray in &quot;The Cat Lover.&quot; Often, the realistic side of her stories involves broken families and deserted children. In &quot;Tunnel of Fish,&quot; &quot;Sheer Big Waste of Love&quot; and &quot;Unseen Translation,&quot; we encounter three small, wise, almost painfully controlled boys who are among Atkinson's most touching inventions.<br />What I didn't like was the epigraphs that precede each story. They're wildly eclectic, ranging from Buffy to Emily Dickinson to classical sources (including untranslated Greek!), but does the book really need another layer of possible meaning? They struck me as irritating rather than enlightening, like program notes that over-explain instead of letting the work speak for itself. And because some are highly esoteric, they give the mistaken impression that you must have a daunting level of scholarship in order to gain entry to the book.<br />The stories in NOT THE END OF THE WORLD are, in fact, completely accessible --- with the exception of the first and the last, &quot;Charlene and Trudi Go Shopping&quot; and &quot;Pleasureland,&quot; intentional bookends for the collection. On one level, these two tales are simply a big fat ironic play on the title phrase, since what's happening is that the world (as we know it) is ending: weather anomalies and epidemics and warfare and no more radio or TV or food, zoo animals running riot and museums left unpoliced so &quot;people wandered in and took the artifacts and used them to improve their interior décor.&quot;<br />The Charlene and Trudi stories (in both cases, they are the sole characters) are a weird cross between high-literary minimalism and a high-end shopping list, itemizing everything from tea to perfume to fabric. Atkinson seems to be pointing out how little &quot;stuff&quot; matters when it comes to the apocalypse, while at the same time glorying in the sheer sound and texture of words and objects. She also jams in a great many references to themes and people mentioned in the rest of the book, as if Charlene and Trudi's dying days (and dying world) contain and transcend everything else. None of this really works --- and it is particularly discouraging to encounter it right off the bat (I almost threw the book across the room). My advice: Skip Charlene and Trudi until you've read everything else.<br />NOT THE END OF THE WORLD is a grand ride, but I don't think it is Atkinson's best. Too many of the stories, despite their obvious virtuosity, wind up getting by on the author's sarcastic, fantastic riffs and juicy language. She could (dangerously, for her own development) be typecast as wacky rather than deep. I hope she writes another novel next --- preferably about a small boy with profound dignity and a well-concealed longing for love.<br />   --- Reviewed by Kathy Weissman	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R35M05TVHY8CBG	0060534214	849010778	Mr. Timothy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Cleverly Written and Superb Tale	In 1843, Charles Dickens brought us A CHRISTMAS CAROL and introduced us to Tiny Tim, a pitiable lad who stole our hearts. That fateful Christmas when young Tim hobbled around in wretched style, old Ebenezer Scrooge spent a fitful night with three ghosts who taught him some hard lessons about stinginess. Now, Louis Bayard shows us Timothy Cratchit in his 23rd year, grown up yet still quite a charmer. And &quot;Uncle N,&quot; despite some unwise money handling, pledges a monthly stipend to Tim and demands very little in return --- just the occasional visit.<br />It is the 1860s, and young Mr. Cratchit has found himself lodging in a bawdy house, tutoring the madam in reading in exchange for the room. He leads a comfortable life, his crutch cast off long ago, leaving him with a limp and some residual stiffness. The only thing haunting him now is his father --- recently dead --- who accompanies him on walks or appears atop stone walls with one leg swinging down or perches himself out on a pier with a fishing pole. Tim composes letters to him, searching for peace from every infraction a child commits against his father in a lifetime. In so doing, he writes some very eloquent words. He comes to understand what the dead need from the living, and what the living seek from the dead.<br />One day, shortly before Christmas, Tim happens upon a small corpse, that of a child in her preteens, branded with a grotesque &quot;G.&quot; Not long after that, he is confronted with another. He can't leave it alone. He finds himself enchanted by the mystery and engrossed in the chase.<br />As Timothy is dealing with his personal ghosts, he catches a glimpse of a girl fleeing through the streets below his window. Their eyes meet for the briefest of moments, but it is long enough to send him in search of her. Colin the Melodious, a shifty youthful character whose trustworthiness is questionable, teams up with Timothy in the quest --- for a fee, of course. Surprisingly, maybe even for Colin, the nocturnal waif is found, a foreign child named Philomela. A bond is quickly formed and the three begin the arduous task of unraveling the mystery of the branded girls while they themselves try to stay alive.<br />As with A CHRISTMAS CAROL, the story takes place one ancient Christmas, with the fogs of London shrouding the streets with the eerie unknown. If any thriller can be said to be heartwarming, this spellbinder from Louis Bayard is just such a thriller. Throughout its too-few pages, Mr. Bayard's characters stay true to themselves and to their time, showing great complexity and some well-placed irreverence. They come fairly alive on the pages.<br />I had never thought of Tiny Tim in his 20s, but Bayard's imagination has blessed us with an excellent look at the fellow as a young adult and fashioned a superb tale at the same time. And if Dickens were here to read MR. TIMOTHY, I believe he might smile broadly, even chuckle, well pleased. It is cleverly written with just the right combination of droll wit, sidelong glances at 19th-century London and headlong suspense.<br />  --- Reviewed by Kate Ayershe nocturnal waif is found, a foreign child named Philomela. A bond is quickly formed and the three begin the arduous task of unraveling the mystery of the branded girls while they themselves try to stay alive.<br />As with A CHRISTMAS CAROL, the story takes place one ancient Christmas, with the fogs of London shrouding the streets with the eerie unknown. If any thriller can be said to be heartwarming, this spellbinder from Louis Bayard is just such a thriller. Throughout its too-few pages, Mr. Bayard's characters stay true to themselves and to their time, showing great complexity and some well-placed irreverence. They come fairly alive on the pages.<br />I had never thought of Tiny Tim in his 20s, but Bayard's imagination has blessed us with an excellent look at the fellow as a young adult and fashioned a superb tale at the same time. And if Dickens were here to read MR. TIMOTHY, I believe he might smile broadly, even chuckle, well pleased. It is cleverly written with just the right combination of droll wit, sidelong glances at 19th-century London and headlong suspense.<br />   --- Reviewed by Kate Ayers	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R2QYBJ31ATAXBF	1585674818	459109787	No Angel	Books	5	31	33	N	N	As Compulsively Readable as any Spy Thriller	Last year the Overlook Press, previously best known for publishing literary fiction and reissuing the Freddy the Pig children's books, took a gamble and published a big, popular book, THE COMPANY by Robert Littell. Its success prompted the publisher to tackle an equally ambitious project this year. This time, though, the novel is so-called women's fiction, and the subject matter is not the history of the CIA but the equally turbulent history of a single British family. The good news is that NO ANGEL, with its superb plotting and wide cast of characters, is just as compulsively readable as any spy thriller.<br />The heroine of NO ANGEL is Lady Celia, a lovely debutante at the start of the novel, who sets her sights on Oliver Lytton, heir to an up-and-coming publishing firm. The year is 1904, and Celia's very proper society family is appalled by her desire to marry into &quot;new money.&quot; Even more shocking, though, is Celia's desire to work in publishing herself. Despite her husband's misgivings, Celia joins the firm as a junior editor and surprises everyone by being absolutely brilliant at her work, soon rising through the ranks to work alongside Oliver and his sister, the imposing but secretly vulnerable LM. In the meantime, Celia is also having babies, and the challenges she faces in balancing the work she loves with her growing family will ring true for many modern working mothers.<br />Celia and Oliver work hard to build a life for themselves in London and soon find themselves at the center of a fabulous social circle that includes prominent writers, artists and politicians. Then World War I begins, and everything changes. Oliver spends four years at the front lines and comes back a shadow of his former self. Celia and LM, who have worked hard to keep the publishing house going in his absence, must cope with relinquishing power to the men when they return from the war. Soon, Celia, accustomed to making hard decisions in her professional life, finds herself torn by an incredibly difficult personal choice between passion and responsibility.<br />Although Lady Celia Lytton is the &quot;no angel&quot; of the book's title, and most of the novel's plots revolve around her intense personality, one of the book's riches is its immense cast of supporting players, most of whom are finely drawn, interesting characters in their own right. From Jack, Oliver's dashing but inept bachelor brother, to Barty, the young girl Celia plucks from poverty in a misguided charitable impulse, to Celia's mother, who harbors some pretty racy secrets of her own, the cast of characters spans generations, class boundaries and continents, and the plot touches all of them in turn. NO ANGEL is not great literature, but it does provide a certain level of emotional insight into all of these characters that is lacking in much popular fiction.<br />The plot itself rockets through all 600+ pages and the text, especially near the book's end, is broken up into small chunks of a paragraph or two, shifting the story rapidly from one character to another. If there's one flaw with the book, it's the numerous typographical errors and punctuation problems that riddle the text to the point of being distracting. The story also relies a little too heavily on coincidence and close calls, but that's OK --- that's what will keep readers turning the pages, waiting for a resolution.<br />Not all of the subplots are resolved, however. The author had to save something for the book's two sequels, which have already been published in the United Kingdom, where Penny Vincenzi has long been a bestselling author, and will be published in the United States by Overlook Press as well. For readers who devour NO ANGEL, these next installments in the Lytton family saga can't be published quickly enough.<br />   --- Reviewed by Norah Piehl	2003-12-06
US	34387692	R3GE6L2XSUCG9P	0786869054	726547973	The Sunday Wife: A Novel	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The Sunday Wife is sure to become a best read of the year!	THE SUNDAY WIFE is a compelling, moving, poignant novel that speaks to the vicissitudes of marriage, the ebb and flow of friendships, the delicate balance of maintaining one's integrity in a small community, and the necessity of claiming those things that make each of us a whole self. Cassandra King's second novel is so near perfect that it reads like a symphony, each note following the other in perfect pitch.<br />In Dean, the narrator, she has created a character who is at times funny, sad, ridiculous, pitiful, strong, talented and inspiring. On the one hand, she represents the plight of too many women trapped in lives of quiet desperation; and on the flip side, she is so full of life and love that we can't help but cheer her on as she makes her way across the canvas of her life.<br />Dean is married to Ben, an ambitious Methodist preacher who, for more then 20 years, has taken his wife for granted. Early in their marriage he cast her in the narrow, circumscribed role of a pastor's wife, never once consulting her about anything. To his way of thinking, only his selfish, self-serving needs coupled with the expectations his parishioners project onto her are all she needs in her life. She is a woman of low self-esteem who has deferred to his whims and strong will all of her married life --- until he is promoted to a new parish in Crystal Springs, Florida.<br />&quot;With the moving van a few minutes behind us, we pulled our cars, me following Ben --- a metaphor for our life together --- into the driveway of our new house.&quot;<br />A few weeks after settling in, Dean meets Augusta Holderfield, a rich, flamboyant, rebellious rule breaker and falls under her spell.<br />As the novel unfolds around this oddly matched pair of women, King introduces us to the movers and shakers of Ben's new congregation: the gossips and troublemakers whose lives revolve around petty disputes and childish backstabbing. Of course, Dean pays dearly for her deep friendship with and dependence on the notorious Augusta. When the two women, who are outcasts by nature, take a Gypsy fortuneteller named Celeste under their wing, the reputations of all three are blackened as they are infamously linked together.<br />SUNDAY WIFE is a beautifully crafted novel; the prose is clear, the characters are extraordinarily limned, the situations so realistic that readers will think they are reading about themselves or their neighbors. We all know people who resemble the characters in SUNDAY WIFE; which is one of the most intriguing elements of the book. One can only hope that Cassandra King is already working on the sequel. Enjoy this wonderful book, which is sure to become one of your best reads this year.<br />   --- Reviewed by Barbara Lipkien Gershenbaum	2002-10-07
US	34387692	R1FBMOT01ALBPM	0312876130	246060029	Gray Matter	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A thrilling story equal to Crichton, Preston and Childs	In an age when biotechnology seems to be on the verge of offering prospective parents every possible option, Gary Braver (pen name for Northeastern University English Professor Gary Goshgarian) has written a novel about the aftermath of choice. Like its predecessor, ELIXIR, GRAY MATTER treads on ground fraught with ethical dilemma in the face of overwhelming temptation.<br />Rachel Whitman and her husband live in a tony suburb of Boston. Thanks to Mr. Whitman's success and business acumen, they appear to have it all, including a beautiful little boy named Dylan who sings like an angel. Living in a town where the expression \\"keeping up with the Joneses\\" was born, Rachel wants the best for her family. Affluence can often breed a sense of entitlement, and GRAY MATTER more than subtly touches on this cause and effect. Daily, she sees her son, who has slight learning disabilities, struggling with the smallest of tasks in comparison to the genius children he is surrounded by in his exclusive computer science camp and private school. Plagued by decisions she made as a youth to experiment with a popular sex drug, she fears that she is the cause of her son's inferior capabilities and, like any parent who would do all for a child, she seeks alternatives to improve his brain power.<br />A kindly neighbor --- and mother of a genius child --- hints at a procedure that could help slow, innocent Dylan, and Rachel becomes hooked on learning more. She and her husband embroil themselves in a quest to find out about the \\"enhancement\\" that can double their child's IQ for a small fortune. There's something troubling --- mysterious --- about the good doctor who professes to have the miracle key to unlock Dylan's potential, and something equally troubling about the legions of brainiacs he has created, but Rachel can't quite put her finger on it. When detective Greg Zakarian, obsessed with the past murder of a young boy, starts to investigate the recent disappearances of several bright butpoor children, the town's secret unfolds quickly and with gruesome, unimaginable consequences.<br />GRAY MATTER trespasses into the frightening arena of possibility, made all the more frightening by the element of realism brought to the story by Braver's expert research and use of blood-curdling medical details. We live in a world of ever-increasingly complex and tempting options. Cloning, stem cell research, the human genome project --- these and other scientific breakthroughs open up a whole new world of possibilities, controversial possibilities that were once solely the realm of science fiction. Braver takes a fictional look at the dark side of scientific advancement and asks if the tremendous cost is truly worth the coveted prize for merely a select few. Along the way, Braver gives us a thrilling story equal to the best work of Michael Crichton or Douglas Preston and Lincoln Childs.<br />   --- Reviewed by Roberta O'Hara for Bookreporter.com	2002-09-30
