US	34440397	R344FFZURG0AXG	0393321797	519317754	The Fly-Truffler: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A tad trying	Every time I think of this book I can't help but come up with alternate names, like The Truffle Snuffle or The Fly Whuffler.  Something about the word \\"truffler\\" just does it to me.  Anyhoo...<br /><br />Sobin has an obvious love of words that is apparent from the get go.  Though a thin book, this is a very slowly paced thin book, allowing for mountains of description to be heaped on: memories, the lazy days of spring and summer, and Cabassac's vivid dreams of his dead wife.  The Fly-Truffler is an ode to language and linguistics--as much of the plot and descriptions revolve around Cabassac's interest in the fading dialect of the Provencal hills.  Whether or not that's your cup of tea is entirely your call.  I personally enjoy words, so I didn't mind reading it, but the pacing was very heavy and at times trying.  This isn't a particularly happy wook and it continues to gain weight right through to the end.  There's a nihilistic quality to it.  Cabassac's interest is in joining his dead wife in the vivid dreams that the local truffles provide him.  As he becomes more and more entrenched and drawn to this etherworld, his reality gets more and more depressing--he neglects his teaching, then his job, and finally...  Not exactly life re-affirming.<br /><br />Had the pacing or the use of words been a little tighter, I think I would have given it a higher rating.  However, there was much repetition that did not seem intentional, and ended up feeling slightly sloppy and self-indulgent.  Kind of like a depressive's poems or song lyrics.  And unfortunately, though we can feel and empathize with Cabassac's pain, neither he nor his wife are quite dynamic enough to make the sad journey seem worthwhile.	2005-10-11
US	34440397	RFVEB6H77C8TS	0553586424	740107866	Putting on the Dog (Reigning Cats & Dogs Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Don't bother checking your shoes--it's the book that stinks...	Dr. Popper, chipper veterinarian turned sleuth, has been coerced by an associate into giving advice at an ASPCA fundraising event in the Bromptons, Long Island's paradise for wealthy whatnots.  When she stops to ask directions to the event she gets splashed with mud by a handsome actor in a sportscar, only to find that she is staying at his guesthouse during the event (whoddathunk?). Meeting cute, the two find themselves semi-attracted. This becomes problematic since Jessica's b.friend is supposed to join her for her stay. At the opening night of the fundraiser, a much  despised papparazzo is killed by a giant ice sculpture.  Jessica takes the matter into her own hands and what ensues is a week's worth of dull sleuthing antics.  Accompanied by her two pooches Max and Lou, Jessica meets actors, famous locals, and is soon hobnobbing in a very casual fashion.  Meanwhile she must fend off the advances of Shawn Elliot, the actor whose house she's staying at, and trying to placate her easily irritated and mostly whiny boyfriend Nick.<br /><br />God, what an awful book.  I would have set this book down if I weren't so compulsive--I kept wondering how the heck Cynthia Baxter was going to make her plot believable.  Bad move. Putting on the Dog isn't funny or entertaining enough to warrant 368 pages.  It's most clever points are in the punny title and synopsis on the back cover.  Several editing errors only made the going more painful.  Jessica Popper, DVM, is a supposed dog expert, yet early in the book makes a comment about Schipperkes being the basis for the wolf in Little Red Riding Hood.  Uh, like, Dr. Popper, Schipperkes are all black, about a foot high and very cute/fuzzy.  OK, I give on the ears.  Wolves and Schipperkes both have pointy ears.  Four legs, too.  This was followed by a comment about a white Abyssinian basking in the sun.  Really? Abyssinians are sandy brown with almost mountain cat markings.  And they breed true to type.  So, I'm being a twit pointing these mistakes out, but I can't help but think that if you are going to write a book about an expert, then you ought to know the expert's subject or find someone who does and will edit accordingly.  And don't even get me started on Jessica's love interests...  Nick is whiny, deluded, and boring, yet the Jessica and the author both keep commenting on what a great guy he is.  Too bad no one bothers writing something that illustrates this.  Shawn Elliot's actions are attentive, kind, and thoughtful, albeit a tiny bit shallow, yet Jessica keeps acting as though he's a major moral threat.  And I know this is just supposed to be a cute book yadayada, but is it really believable that the first movie actor she meets falls in love with her?  How about his personal assistant or something?<br /><br />If your thing happens to be animal-mysteries, and you are somewhat logical, then I say skip this one or wait until Ms. Baxter gets a better editor and research assistant.akes out, but I can't help but think that if you are going to write a book about an expert, then you ought to know the expert's subject or find someone who does and will edit accordingly.  And don't even get me started on Jessica's love interests...  Nick is whiny, deluded, and boring, yet the Jessica and the author both keep commenting on what a great guy he is.  Too bad no one bothers writing something that illustrates this.  Shawn Elliot's actions are attentive, kind, and thoughtful, albeit a tiny bit shallow, yet Jessica keeps acting as though he's a major moral threat.  And I know this is just supposed to be a cute book yadayada, but is it really believable that the first movie actor she meets falls in love with her?  How about his personal assistant or something?     If your thing happens to be animal-mysteries, and you are somewhat logical, then I say skip this one or wait until Ms. Baxter gets a better editor and research assistant.	2005-10-11
US	34440397	R3GANKKIAUA15Z	0375811141	686029225	Lisa's Airplane Trip	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dog pajamas!	Lisa's like a 4-6 yo in dog pajamas.  She's the best thing since peanut butter and jelly sandwiches (and that's saying mounds, since those are my favorites).  Curious, antsy, fun, and self-amusing.  I love her.  She and Gaspard, an equally cute black furry person, populate Gutman's series.  While Gutman's stories are charming, it's the dynamic and colorful illustrations by Georg Hallenslebsen that make the series a memorable read.<br /><br />In Lisa's Airplane Trip, Lisa goes on a flight for the very first time by herself.  On the airplane she befriends a stewardess, irks a fellow passenger with her constant wriggling, takes a nap (using the extra seat after her frustrated seat companion leaves), spills orange juice ALL over herself, gets a bath, and meets the captain.  I was reading this at a small bookstore and  was embarassed to find myself giggling at the orange juice explosion: Lisa's trying to peek over her seat, standing on something she shouldn't be, when her meal tray tips and vibrantly colored juice goes flying everywhere--especially on her white fur.  Just the type of antics you'd expect a curious child to get up to if left by herself.  The whole tale is wonderful, especially for a young person who's going on a flight soon and might be a little worried.	2005-10-08
US	34440397	R2FHS6AQOERC1F	0811839141	354874643	Daddy Kisses	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Simple, sweet, and touching	I just love these books.  Anne Gutman's very, very simple tale is sweet and touching.  The illustrations are by Georg Hallensleben, the same illustrator who did Gutman's Lisa and Gaspard series, and his slightly crude, yet charming use of color and quick seeming acrylic sketches are just brilliant.  It's a vibrant book.  Perfect for a toddler.  I bought both of these for a friend's baby and I do hope the parents will enjoy them as much as the little girl will--I  know I'd keep them if I could somehow justify having a book for babies in my library.	2005-10-08
US	34440397	R2DG56NKCD67SF	B0008BR7Q6	205163283	Hungry men (Lion book)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A product of its era	Edward Anderson is a little-known author who wrote in the 1930's.  Like Acel Stecker, Hungry Men's protagonist, Anderson spent time as a bum, riding the rails, playing music, and boxing.<br /><br />Hungry Men is an account of the young hobo Acel, who was once a small-time musician and is now penniless.  It's a brutal look at the 30's and it's chapters are short and establish different moments in Acel's traveling and the many alliances he forms.  I found the friendships between the bums interesting--symbiotic as each tries to bring something to the relationship that makes him of value; meanwhile the friendship provides a sense of protection against policemen, railroad bulls, and politicians.  The social dynamics make the book very interesting.  Acel takes work here and there, trying to scrape together enough money to buy a cheap suit and put a girl up in a hotel.  He tries desperately to find work, but is often turned down or away.  Along the way he meets Lundgren, a kind, but very ill man, and Boats, the Socialist, who challenges Acel's thinking.  Initially antagonists, Acel comes to adopt Boats philosophy in a surprising turn.  Eventually, Acel is forced to choose between his new ideals and surviving in a society that is violent towards anything resembling Communism.  The ending is subtle, but Anderson makes a strong literary and political statement through Acel's actions. The title makes the story all the more compelling, because as Acel and his fellow travellers move from state to state and camp to camp, they are always searching for sustenance.  Their profound hunger for food, money, love, and acceptance is well conceived.<br /><br />At times I found Anderson's dialogue clunky or Acel's speech and thought patterns a bit contrived.  The conversations seem a little stilted and dated, but again, this might just be representative of the time.  It took me a little while to actually get into the slightly jarring tone and to feel empathetic towards Acel, but I warmed when I began noticing that he treated all of his bum buddies fairly.<br /><br />The cover on my copy of Hungry Men calls it \\"an American Classic\\".  I'm not sure I would go that far, but I do believe its an honest look at the Depression.  Because Anderson experienced much of what he wrote about, his descriptions are reliable.  No Steinbeck, but Anderson's a decent writer and certainly has picked an interesting subject and protagonist.  Recommended as historical fiction for anyone interested in turn-of-the-century writing and the Great Depression.rmed when I began noticing that he treated all of his bum buddies fairly. <br /> <br />The cover on my copy of Hungry Men calls it \\"an American Classic\\".  I'm not sure I would go that far, but I do believe its an honest look at the Depression.  Because Anderson experienced much of what he wrote about, his descriptions are reliable.  No Steinbeck, but Anderson's a decent writer and certainly has picked an interesting subject and protagonist.  Recommended as historical fiction for anyone interested in turn-of-the-century writing and the Great Depression.	2005-09-19
US	34440397	R2E1OWS9BP40XJ	0886820006	17103411	The Scarlet Ibis (Classic Short Stories)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Bittersweet and haunting	Stories like The Scarlet Ibis have a remarkable affect on people.  I also read it in high school and it has stayed with me through the years.  When we were children, my younger brother was infuriating and vulnerable, and I remember how instinctively cruel I could be--protective as well, but that never seems to kick in when you need it.  I could relate to Doodle's brother and his desire to push and punish his younger sibling.  When I read The Scarlet Ibis, I bawled, I had to hide my face so my classmates wouldn't see.  It was traumatizing.  But I think it was the type of trauma that helps you grow.  A heartrending lesson.  It's one of the most beautiful and profound short stories ever written.  I've never known a story to touch so many people.<br /><br />In addition to having a memorable plot and characters, the setting is worth noticing.  North Carolinan swamp, something that NC native James Hurst would be very familiar with.  And the ibis itself is a shy and rare bird.<br /><br />If you are looking for more thought-provoking reading, I would recommend (if you haven't read these already) The Red Pony and To Kill a Mockingbird. These also teach about love, loss, and what it is to be human.  Books like these seem to make us more empathetic.  Maybe these should be required reading for our elected politicians...	2005-09-15
US	34440397	RBLH058Q73MLB	081120958X	763241199	Selected Poems (William Carlos Williams)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	So much depends upon...	You know the red wheelbarrow poem?  The bloody dumb red wheelbarrow beside those idiot white chickens?  Glistening in sunlight?  The wheelbarrow, not the chickens.  Glistening.  Though if plucked and cooked for a good two hours at 275 degrees, the chickens are bound to glisten too.<br /><br />Fifteen years and many humbling events later, I can honestly say I've come around.  Mr. Williams is an amazing and brilliant poet. I've even grown fond of The Red Wheelbarrow, mostly because it has remained a point of irritation and amusement.  I guess it's like a little jazz riff of a poem.  Williams' voice is said to be almost Cubist in language.  Fractured.  Yet the words recall simple things from rural life.  Despite my initial dislike, The Red Wheelbarrow's a pretty good example of this.  But it's his other poetry that I find really moving.  I am reminded a bit of Steinbeck in his choice of images that are at times harsh and other times comforting.  Just as Steinbeck was a very American author, Williams Carlos Williams is a very American poet.<br /><br />Politically liberal and Unitarian, Williams practiced medicine as a pediatrician and delivered over 2,000 babies in his lifetime.  It seems bizarre to think that this very busy doctor, who actually visited his patients in home (complete with leather bag), had a succesful literary career and keen and discerning interest in poetry of a modern bent.  Williams wrote in the evenings after work and on the weekends.  The image of the in-call doctor is so old-fashioned.  A good juxtaposition with his writing style.	2005-09-14
US	34440397	R1CEPWEGPXINBH	0393310752	668695129	The Fact of a Doorframe: Poems Selected and New 1950-1984	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A strong and lonely voice	When I read Rich's poems I often find myself imagining her as an elderly woman, firm, lonely, and frustrated in her observations.  I think in my initial readings of her I must have zeroed in on the poems with less of a feminist agenda.  I really enjoyed those that I found.  Rereading her I can see quite a bit more of a divide between the sexes and she seems very unsettled in her view of men.  I would imagine male readers would most likely be put off by this.  Gender is a big deal to Rich, I'd be lying if I said otherwise.  Because we have an inundation of ruminations like those today, her message might be somewhat dated--especially to younger people, but if you consider the era in which these poems were written, it was a timely subject.  To quote one of the last line in \\"From an Old House in America\\":  \\"Any woman's death diminishes me.\\"  I know some people panned the newest additions to this collection (1950-2001) and feel Rich is a bit of a man-hater.  I don't get the feeling that she herself is, but her poetry can certainly go bitter quickly.<br /><br />Needless to say, Rich was assigned reading in college (most likely Women and Literature...), but it was one of the few poetry books that I enjoyed and have actually picked up in later years.  I think some of her less political and more personal poems are striking and very beautiful.  These are like little intermittent gems and make the collection worthwhile for me.  My favorite poem is very short, and sort of William Carlos Williams in fashion.  It's called Picnic.  Five lines from it:<br /><br />the chicken bones scattered<br />for the fox we'll never see<br />the children playing in the caves<br />My death is folded in my pocket<br />like a nylon raincoat<br /><br />Very wistful and stark.  I guess I'm mostly struck by how lonely she sounds.  That's something I think we can all identify with.	2005-09-14
US	34440397	R22PY1W8CSGWI5	1400082315	857468785	Why Do Men Have Nipples? Hundreds of Questions You'd Only Ask a Doctor After Your Third Martini	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good bathroom book	You know those books you find in other people's loos, sitting beside the toilet--presumably for \\"quiet moments\\"?  This quick-read book of quirky medical factoids will fit perfectly in anyone's bathroom library.  It basically covers all the questions you get curious about but are far too embarassed to ask.  Like, why is poo brown?  Does bubblegum really take seven years to digest? If you're easily offended, steer clear.  The authors have no problem joking about masturbation, sex, and drinking.  And each section contains a short free form dialogue between the two doctors, that is at times funny and other times annoying.  It's yuk-yuk style, two guys having fun.  I found it amusing and there were some things I didn't know.  In fact, I wish I knew some doctors I could invite to cocktail parties, because info gems like these are great for tipsy conversation.  They even give a color coding on poo and which vitamin deficiency you might have etc.  Lots of miscellaneous fart info.<br /><br />This isn't a guide to brain surgery and requires no emotional depth.  It's cute, short, and you can breeze through it in about 30 minutes (I actually read it at the bookstore--I know, it's rude, but I couldn't put it down...).  It's a stocking stuffer of a present and I think I'll be giving it to my brother for Christmas since he shares my juvenile sense of humor and interest in body mechanics.  Then he can add it to his bathroom library. God knows the guy spends enough time in there...<br /><br />If you're looking for something a little more in depth, but equally interesting, and far more academic, try to the boringly titled Why We Get Sick.  It's a great book full of really interesting facts about illness and how and why our bodies respond the way they do.  No poo jokes, a strictly straight, but entertaining read.	2005-09-13
US	34440397	R1J9AG3UI52BO6	0810932741	344753614	Faeries (25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	142	144	N	N	One of the most beautiful books I own	My parents gave this to me for my fifth birthday and it is one of the most cherished and beautiful books that I own.  It's a compilation of gorgeous watercolors, sketches, and a systematic like grouping of faeries and their mythical kin.  I can't imagine a better book for a young artist or creative reader.  I spent hours and hours poring over each illustration and reading about the origins of all the creatures.  It has a Jim Henson-like quality in its imaginative spirit (echoed by one of the jacket covers which features Froud with a little puppet faery mannikin posed in a tree).  Alan Lee is responsible for those gorgeous watercolors, while Brian Froud does the kinetic sketches (Froud was also the illustrator of Lady Cottingtons Book of Pressed Faeries--a funny and darkly humored picture book).  Sidenote:  Brian Froud's wife, Wendy, was one of the artists responsible for the very beautiful (if slightly dated) Dark Crystal and, I did not know this--YODA!!  Who knew?!  Wonderful news, too, the 25th edition of this book contains 20 new pieces by Froud and Lee.<br /><br />As for the nakedness:  When I was six I thought everyone's body was beautiful and nakedness definitely didn't put me off.  The only times it was disturbing was when adults made a big deal of it.  That and finding a discarded copy of Penthouse behind an abandoned building both fascinated and freaked me out.  But Froud's book is nothing like that.  I'd no more be upset by the nudity in this then I would by the nudity in Renaissance paintings.  I'm guessing adults must read more eroticism into it than any child would. If you're really worried, check out Brian Froud's website--it has some of the illustrations from Faeries and will give you a better sense of it. Personally, I think it's a wonderful book for children.  Not to harp on, but I don't think un-erotic and un-sensationalized exposure to nudity is a bad thing (and I don't mean that in a let's all be nudists manner...just a hey, we all got skin underneath our clothes recognition).<br /><br />If there's someone in your life who has a fly-away imagination and appreciation for art or myth, this is a terrific choice.r clothes recognition).    If there's someone in your life who has a fly-away imagination and appreciation for art or myth, this is a terrific choice.	2005-09-13
US	34440397	R1OX0BKYRXXMOH	0967524083	698664177	Time Out New York Eating & Drinking 2005 ("Time Out" Guides)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Quick access to the best dining in town	Time Out publishes a superior dining guide that includes enough quirky categories to satiate the adventurous. Whenever we get together in a large group, we always consult our Time Out NY guide.  For such small blurbs, the writing really captures the spirit of restaurant, the best flavors, and the occasional downfall.  Guide includes a section on Dive Bars and encompasses Brooklyn and Queens.  Time Out's writing is geared toward 20somethings to 40somethings, though its picks certainly encompass all ages.  Personally, I find Time Out more reliable than Zagat ratings.  Possibly because personal opinions seem more readily available.<br /><br />Incidentally, the London Time Out guide was one of the first things my husband's sister pulled out when she was looking for a restaurant to take us out to in London.	2005-09-08
US	34440397	R20W30WFWDT823	0440456312	109300269	The Midnight Folk	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A childhood favorite	Kay is an imaginative boy, often left alone by his governess to work through lessons (the nightmarish Latin conjugations as another reviewer recalled).  He finds time to wander off and converse with his friend Nibbins the black cat.  Nibbins keeps an eye on the estate, Kay's governess, and the gamekeeper, and has observed strange things. When the clock strikes midnight, people and animals change and Kay himself becomes a key element.<br /><br />It's a perfect book for children with big imaginations and it has  just an edge of darkness that makes it ultra satisfying (similar to Wolves of Willoughby chase in tone).  With plenty of hair-raising midnight outings and traitors around every corner.  The witches are both evil and beguiling and Kay's great, great granddaddy, the pirate, is a wicked yet entertaining man.  Thoroughly enjoyable.<br /><br />E. Nesbit wrote at the same time as Masefield, and you can see some similarities in themes.  Both are wonderful children's authors and if you like one, chances are you will enjoy the other.  Midnight Folk in many ways seems like a precursor to the writings of Roald Dahl's The Witches.  One might find similarities in today's Lemony Snicket or Harry Potter series, though I find both of those series much easier to read and a bit glossy in an ADD quick-read fashion.<br /><br />**Beware of abridged copies--language changes and \\"updates\\" that mess with the original language	2005-09-07
US	34440397	R3JJZRN1BDWSVX	0810955865	824452516	Passage	Books	5	60	61	N	N	A modern naturalist	When I first heard of Goldsworthy my temptation was to label his art as New Agey because of his interaction with natural mediums and his works' outdoor settings.  This would have been a gross mislabeling.  I've also heard the term \\"environmental artist\\" bandied about, but that is just far too vague and I'm hoping we don't adopt that as part of our art-appreciation vocabulary.  I think Goldsworthy and Christos are grouped together under that title, but they couldn't be more dissimilar.  Christos' works always so statement oriented and meant to be observed from a distance, while Goldsworthy's evocative sculptures and leaf paintings invite you to examine them more closely and admire how well they fit into the landscape.  And though his art is made from natural materials and dependent on the elements, the works themselves are very modern.  Passage was the first book of Goldsworthy's work that I've been given, though I've seen some of his smaller pieces and photos in several galleries.<br /><br />His moss covered stones surrounded by sun-blindingly bright leaves in perfect auras make me examine my walks through the park in new ways.  He uses sticks and stones and leaves the way James Turrell uses light and corners and openings, letting you  rediscover the things you may have taken for granted.  Beautiful and painstaking work.  Yet accessible.  After reading this, you'll be tempted to go outside and create your own sculptures.  Passage offers some commentary by Goldsworthy and as well as diary entries and curators' comments.  But the pictures make the book.  Many of his works are photographed at different times of day or year and because they are dependent on their environment, the pieces change dramatically.  Very beautiful.	2005-09-05
US	34440397	R1RTBTSOAK162F	0425204200	370413722	Trace (Scarpetta)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Dysfunctional Superfamily	What started out as a terrific series has slowly degraded into a soap opera of family relations and generically crazed killers.  Kay Scarpetta, the series' heroine and medical examiner, is genuinely likeable, but Cornell's plots and spell-it-out writing style have morped into something unlikeable.  And I am annoyed by recent character developments, such as the reincarnation of Scarpetta's lover Benton (why?! he's a bore!) and Lucy's endless resourcefulness and physical prowess coupled with her crippling stoopidity when it comes to girlfriends and critical situations.  Lucy and Benton are killing the series for me.  Both have superhuman qualities, and I can't say how many times we are reminded that Lucy and Benton are super, super dooper smart.  If they're so freakin' smart then why aren't they solving the bloody mysteries rather than complicating them?  Give me Marino any day.  Scarpetta's right-hand man is a simple redneck who loves his people, women, and food.  He's like a bear with a sore butt.  And actually adds depth to the stories.<br /><br />For those new to the series, Kay Scarpetta is a former chief medical examiner who is currently freelancing and often working in conjunction with her neice (ex-FBI agent) Lucy's new intelligence company.  Scarpetta's friend and employee, the aging and cantankerous Marino, keeps her out of trouble while getting into his own.  Meanwhile, in a galaxy far far away (Aspen), her ex-dead lover, Benton, a psychospecialist/profiler is busy trying to figure out the latest of Lucy's loser girlfriends.  Benton has recently reappeared after a few books in which we all assumed he'd been blown to bits.  He now adds meaningless complication to Scarpetta's emotional landscape and retched plot fillers when it comes to behaviorial notes.  In Pace, Kay Scarpetta revisits her old post in Virginia where her replacement, a new and slightly slimy chief, needs assisting with a young girl's death.  There just happen to be some tie-ins with the person who is pursuing Lucy and her dippy lover...<br /><br />Kay Scarpetta's more human than Benton and Lucy and far more interesting, so I can forgive her place in Dysfunctional Superfamily.  Maybe in the next book Lucy will take to alcohol again, get brainwashed, discover she actually prefers men, especially father figures, then she and Benton can run away and produce hyper-intelligent, beautiful, socially retarded babies.  Very far away.  That will leave Scarpetta and Marino to go eat meatballs, drink beer, and solve cases.  --And no more Psycho-based killers who talk to their dead mothers, Ms. Cornell.  --Or silly monikers like Edgar Allen Pogue.  Non. Nyet. Nein.is pursuing Lucy and her dippy lover...    Kay Scarpetta's more human than Benton and Lucy and far more interesting, so I can forgive her place in Dysfunctional Superfamily.  Maybe in the next book Lucy will take to alcohol again, get brainwashed, discover she actually prefers men, especially father figures, then she and Benton can run away and produce hyper-intelligent, beautiful, socially retarded babies.  Very far away.  That will leave Scarpetta and Marino to go eat meatballs, drink beer, and solve cases.  --And no more Psycho-based killers who talk to their dead mothers, Ms. Cornell.  --Or silly monikers like Edgar Allen Pogue.  Non. Nyet. Nein.	2005-09-05
US	34440397	R1GJIX15N9J76Y	1551052334	915870322	Bugs of Washington and Oregon	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A great regional reference for the insect curious	In his introduction to Bugs of Washington and Oregon, John Acorn explains how difficult it was to select 250 bugs from the 25,000 that populate the region.  His criteria for choosing was 1) big, 2) colorful, 3) really hard to miss or 4) extremely wierd.  This is by no means a comprehensive guide, but an excellent handbook to get you started identifying miscellaneous bugs and Acorn's example species are well chosen.  In the Introduction Acorn addresses various concerns, sensitive issues, and points of interest in entomology.  His views are sensitive, yet balanced--a pleasure to read.  It's one of the few introductions I've read that was worth the time.  The illustrations by Ian Sheldon are clear and nicely executed and Acorn's descriptions contain intriguing factoids.  This is a terrific gift for the naturalist in the family.<br />**If you are looking to further your insect education, one of the best and most lovingly written bug books out there is For the Love of Insects and if you're looking for a beautiful picture book, try An Inordinate Fondness of Beetles.	2005-09-04
US	34440397	R30V192KOKTHKH	1580050972	165135774	No Touch Monkey!: And Other Travel Lessons Learned Too Late (Adventura Books Series)	Books	3	30	40	N	N	Great title, lukewarm essays	I bought No Touch Monkey based on title alone.  So funny, it perfectly describes situations I've seen while traveling.  That said, I found the writing to be less funny than the title.  Not bad by any means, just not gut-splitting or snicker inducing.  I had the same response from two of my traveling friends who'd read it.  They smiled, but no laughs.<br /><br />Ayun Halliday's self-deprecating and sarcastic writing is likeable.  But the pattern in each chapter quickly becomes apparent: she and her companions make incredibly naive and/or dangerous choices in oddball foreign places and bumble through the results.  Halliday's younger self is often whiny or dislikeable, which is to the author's credit and done in a self-mocking manner, but even this becomes tiring when combined with the predictability of the essays.  Sadly, the \\"No Touch Monkey\\" chapter that I'd been anticipating was a bit of a let-down.  Maybe the brilliant title dooms the book.  Compared, the writing lags.  Which is a dead shame, because Halliday is a genuinely funny lady.  Her column in Bust magazine is a spirited and slightly twisted take on motherhood and she also maintains an excellently quirky website.	2005-09-03
US	34440397	R1W2KL2VPL3ZMV	0553381512	975856624	Folly	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Intriguing main character	I've read King's Mary Russell series and enjoyed it, but Folly is  a much better piece of writing.  Where the Russell series is entertaining but light, Folly is a thoughtful investment with a complex main character.<br /><br />Being from the Northwest, I loved the setting on a small island in the Straits of Juan de Fuca.  But what I liked most was the use of an older woman as a protagonist.  Rae's a bit of an anomaly in our current sea of women's fiction. For starters, she's old.  Plus she's stubborn, smart, fit, and a bit paranoid.  And a grandmother.  Sometimes it's hard to connect with characters whose age and mindset feel vastly different than your own, but King makes Rae live and breathe and I really enjoyed her.  It's a very human portrayal and I could relate to her.  She's no superwoman.  Rae doesn't appreciate growing older.  She's used to being fully capable and you can tell how much it bothers her to have to take time with things and be careful with her body.  Her granddaughter Petra serves as a bit of an emotional safety line for her.  Excellently done.  The plot itself is good with the play on paranoia--how much is Rae imagining and how much is real?  But it's premise is a wee gothic.  Luckily, you don't really notice or question. An enjoyable weekend or week read.<br />**If you like Folly, then you may be interested in Beachcombing for a Shipwrecked God by Joe Coomer.	2005-09-03
US	34440397	R12ZN95059FUS2	0946495408	17994625	Venus and Tannhauser	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Silly, poorly written erotica by a very talented artist	I love Aubrey Beardsley's sly erotic illustrations.  All his imagery seems charged with sexual overtones and I couldn't help but think that Venus and Tannhauser would be an elegant and twisted story.  I was looking for a bit of old-fashioned erotica ala Anais Nin or Nabakov...something evocative.<br /><br />Instead I got a 14 year old boy's version of an orgy with much farting, grasping of appendages (ridiculously shaped and sized), spankings, high-blown dialogue, and pinching.  I repeat: much farting and pinching.  Maybe if I were slightly impaired I'd find it entertaining or titillating, but even drunk weasels would think this twaddle (they might snicker a bit, high-pitched weasel snickers).  Surprisingly, the artwork ain't all there either.  There are some lovely bits and some funny comic erotic drawings, but overall the illustrations were sparse.  Could it just be my copy??  Part of my response might be just that I'm unfamiliar with the Venus and Tannhauser tale, but if I remember correctly, that tale was not so overblown.  Beardsley's retelling reads like a very, very bad version of Alexander Pope's Rape of the Lock, but taken seriously in an odd juvenile manner.<br /><br />I'd recommend this purchase for a die-hard Beardsley collector, but certainly not for someone who admires his work and is looking for an old-fashioned erotic read.  Stick to his artwork and then read Anais Nin.  Best of both worlds.	2005-09-03
US	34440397	R380ZEV0T098WY	0954153103	925411318	The Manual of Horsemanship	Books	5	7	7	N	N	More than ABC's of riding	Most general horsemanship books that I own are a bit too basic in focus.  They discuss purchasing a horse, horse conformation, equipment, safety, feeding, and very, very basic riding.  Not The Manual of Horsemanship.  It's for the serious beginner or intermediate rider, covering all the basics plus additional riding techniques and more nuanced riding: getting your horse to accept the bit, bending techniques, advanced paces, jumping aids and rhythms, plus more.  For such a compact book it packs an impressive amount of information.  I've been riding since I was little, but it wasn't until college that I began taking huntseat lessons.  I found the manual midway through college and it helped me think about better ways to communicate with my horse.  It's the perfect intermediate guide, because most of the sport specific books get too technical quickly. **On an interesting note, it's British and I've come to think of their take on riding as a little more finessed--less goal oriented and more technique-focused (an opinion solely based on the US produced riding books and UK produced riding books that I've read).	2005-09-03
US	34440397	R2W1Q5B0YP2TR0	068482440X	187834364	Beachcombing for a Shipwrecked God	Books	5	10	10	N	N	three women, one boat	If someone had handed me this book and said, it's about three  women, each representing a different generation, and they come together to make a nice little family, I would have rolled my eyes.  How sitcom.  Fortunately, it's a lovely piece of writing and while three women of different backgrounds come to appreciate each other and eventually live together, it's not forced saccharine or knee-jerk comedy.<br /><br />Each character is vulnerable in a believable way.  Charlotte has recently lost her husband, who died after admitting he was ambivalent about their marriage.  She tries to keep it together and escape the questions of her in-laws by involving herself in what might be a pointless archeological dig in a small eastcoast town.  There she meets artist, Grace, an older woman, followed by  Chloe, a young but wise pregnant teenager.  Coomer keeps things from getting maudlin by avoiding tidy relationships.  The characters don't instantly see each other as salvation and there are always tics to contend with.  Charlotte's pain felt very real.  Admittedly, Chloe was a bit overly wise, but with the Coomer's touch, it's easy to overlook.	2005-09-03
US	34440397	R34P4OBTPFFIG2	0026276801	573835617	Macmillan Illustrated Animal Encyclopedia	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beautifully detailed illustrations	I've been enjoying this book for over ten years.  Highly recommended for the naturalist in your life, especially the young ones. The illustrations are spectacular.  The amphibian section is mindblowingly realistic and they are all works of art.  It's a great reference book and an interesting addition to your coffee table. The main animal phyla are covered: mammals, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and fish. Subsequent orders are all found. I wish they'd make an encyclopedia that would cover lower forms--I bet that would be amazing!  This is a useful guide for any traveler encountering new beasties.	2005-09-02
US	34440397	R1XTNVOAE9CPZH	0967730325	818574182	The Adventurous Gardener: Where to Buy the Best Plants in New York and New Jersey	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Like shopping with a friend.  Fun and informative.	Ruah Donnelly's informative and easy banter make this guide a pleasure to use.  The Adventurous Gardener covers NY and NJ's plant suppliers for the afficianado.  I used it to visit my now favorite garden shop: the Peconic Herb Farm (talk about a labor of love!).  I'm slightly concerned that the material might become dated, but Donnelly seems to have chosen farms, suppliers, and centers with longevity in mind.  Her quotes from the owners' themselves and the little factoids she includes made the text entertaining and I was eager to meet (or observe) the shops and their owners.  Nicely done.  My only complaint is that the listings are alphabetical within each region.  And while each region has a map, I'd love it if the listings followed a driving order whether east to west or north to south, but that's because I hate using Mapquest to organize my trips.  Or Donnelly could include more detailed maps within those regions showing how proximate the farms or centers are to each other.  (Ease my navigation pains!)  But that's nitpicking; The Adventurous Gardener has served me well.	2005-09-02
US	34440397	R1OPUR8L9ZYAAS	B0007IP00U	722126718	Artist's Manual: A Complete Guide to Painting and Drawing Materials and Techniques	Books	5	8	8	N	N	You'll be inspired to try something new.	I'm incredibly impressed with this book.  Anyone with a twinkling of creativity could pick it up and begin almost anything.  I found this in a bookstore and vowed I would own it.  It's beautifully photographed and illustrated as one might expect, but often can't find in art guides.  The text is right on the money.  In my opinion it's the most comprehensive guide out there and it doesn't just cater to beginners, which is why I was so taken with it.  I've been dabbling in the arts since I could walk and wanted something that might cover some of the mediums that I haven't experimented with yet.<br /><br />The chapters are divided into: Supports, Drawing Media, Painting Media, Color and Composition, Subjects and Themes, The Studio, Reference.  I was especially impressed with the Reference section, as this was one of the first general art guides I'd found that carried health and safety info as well as a list of suppliers.  The artwork examples in each of the sections are really well chosen.  If I were an art teacher, I would make this text required reading material.  It's intelligently written without being dry, boring, or patronizing. And never overly simplistic--a huge bonus if you're tired of pat-on-the-head guides.	2005-09-02
US	34440397	R6IEZLSUTZ9EH	0881927090	507263201	Pocket Guide to Shade Perennials (TIMBER PRESS POCKET GUIDES)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Shade gardens don't have to be boring!	As a professional gardener, I've found Schmid's Shade Perennials the perfect quick reference and idea book for tiny city yards.  As most residents of large cities and boroughs can tell you, lighting can be a real difficulty.  It's much better to think in terms of contrasts and textures and Shade Perennials provides many choices for those wondering just how to rennovate their gloomy yard.  My two complaints: I felt that the pictures were only so-so and there aren't picture examples of all the plants listed.  In fact, there are only 2-3 small photos per page, yet generally about 5-6 listings for species.  In that regard, it could be more comprehensive.  I've found it slightly better than Taylor's Guide to Shade Gardening, simply because it has more photos and when it comes to garden design, I'm reliant on visual stimulus.  All-in-all, a useful guide and to help get you out of the hosta rut.	2005-09-02
US	34440397	R3U5QWJJJULZI1	0801483344	263075339	Weeds of the Northeast	Books	4	24	28	N	N	A handy guide--good identification photos	I'm very pleased with this guide.  After spending time with field research botanists, I've come to appreciate how difficult it can be to catalog invasive plants--they're EVERYWHERE!  And of varying sizes, shapes, colors.  Some so innocuous that it wouldn't even occur to you to notice and others so prolific in their families that it takes forever to track the different varieties.  Luckily, Uva, Neal, and DiTomaso did and put together an excellent little book.  As a professional gardener, this has been a handy reference.  I would give it five stars, but I do have issue with some of the items.  In the Introduction, weeds are discussed, but it is not clearly established what makes a \\"weed\\" a weed.  For example, mallow is listed as a weed, but it appears to be a weed in the context of agricultural plantings. To my understanding, there are several native varieties of mallow in the U.S.  Is this particular variety non-native?  Is it a nuisance plant?  Is it unsightly?  My definition of weed has always been non-native escapists or volunteers.  I'd like to see this clearly defined.<br /><br />I would also like more information on where the plant originates and what makes it a weed in the Northeast.  As well as any beneficial qualities--are parts of the plant edible?  Can any of it be used?  Difficulties eradicating?  Basically, as a gardener I'd like to know if there are any positive attributes.  If I have a field full of amiranth is it the same type of amiranth sold in the stores?  How does it vary?  Could my client potentially harvest any of this before tilling or pulling out?  The scientific information, such as plant identification: size of seeds, defining leaf shapes, etc., is all very clear and well done.  As I said the photos are great.  All in all this is indespensible, I just wish they would continue to add to the text.	2005-09-02
US	34440397	R1TIWNFNRNBJMX	0878423060	520445542	The Plant Explorer's Guide to New England	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Roadtrip for botanists!	Alright plant geeks, get out your atlases, Wiggers has set up a terrific travel itinerary! I initially bought the Plant Explorer's Guide to New England in an attempt to find a comprehensive Northeast native plant guide.  It isn't.  It is, however, a very handy roadtrip guide and gives specific sites and seasons for seeing Northeastern plants in all of their glory.  Covering Maine to Connecticut, with 54 illustrated driving and walking tours.  The maps are easy to follow if you have a nice state route and the text is informative, though I found it a bit dull at times.  Pack this in your car with your plant id guides for a long weekend drive.	2005-09-02
US	34440397	R368EHS478XMH9	159186111X	855723900	Month-By-Month Gardening in New York	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Cheater's guide!  Help yourself and your plants.	I guess I didn't expect to really like this book, and I'm not entirely sure why.  Perhaps I have bad associations with month-by-month instructionals.  At anyrate, I was completely won over.  This book is handy, handy, handy.  If you live in NY or a similar climate with the extreme winter and tropical summer, this is a helpful reminder.  I garden professionally and still rely on it as a task list just to remind myself when my brain's on overload.  Plant categories are covered separately month-by-month which was a little confusing at first glance--why not have all plants listed in monthly sections, but no matter.  The categories are:  Annuals and Biennials; Bulbs, Corms, Rhizomes, and Tubers; Herbs and Vegetables; Houseplants; Lawns; Perennials; Roses; Shrubs; Trees; Vines, Ground Covers, and Ornamental Grasses; and Water and Bog Plants.  Pretty comprehensive.  Buy it and make your gardening a little easier!	2005-09-02
US	34440397	RP1TNDTF3UWD6	0676976239	629465826	In the Company of Cheerful Ladies (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, No. 6)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More bush tea!	I couldn't wait for the paperback to come out and purchased the hardback, but regardless of which you buy, you've got a winner on your hands.  I've been following Precious Ramotswe and her secretary, Mma Makutsi, the owner of the admired 97th percentile at the local college, and their detecting since the beginning.  The latest installment, In the Company of Cheerful Ladies, has a content and married Mma Ramotswe confronted by someone from her past, Mma Makutsi taking dancing lessons (in hopes of meeting potential suitors), and Charlie, the dim but likeable apprentice to Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni (Mma Ramotswe's husband and the owner of Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors), keeping company with an older and flashier woman.  There is plenty of sorting through the past to do, which keeps Mma Ramotswe occupied, leaving the ever resourceful and occasionally crazed Mma Makutsi to help tie up ends with Charlie.  Meanwhile, poor Mr. Matekoni has found out some unpleasant things about his house that he is currently renting out.  Will things get sorted out?  With Precious Ramotswe at the wheel of her little white van, things are bound to come to order with good commonsense, a couple pots of bush tea, and some dignity and flair.  But it's going to be a bumpy road.<br /><br />I enjoyed the ending to In the Company of Cheerful Ladies.  I hadn't fallen in love with the previous novel, The Full Cupboard of Life, so I was hoping that Alexander Mcall Smith wasn't running out of steam.  I'm happy to say he isn't.  I don't know how long he can sustain things, and this might just be the perfect stopping pt for such a great series.<br /><br />The simplicity with which these books are written is sublime.  And the dialogue is lyrical.  You get a full sense of a community of people who believe in their own traditional values and who, through life's upheavals, take the time to assess and enjoy what they have.  This series is like macaroni and cheese for me, a true comfort read.  And without sounding ultra dippy, when I read these I am reminded of my own values--or rather, Mma Ramotswe's view on the world is so admirable that I can't help stepping out side and feeling more benevolent.  And Mccall Smith doesn't accomplish this by preaching or educating, in fact I doubt the books were written with this response in mind but there it is, he simply gives us characters that we can't help but cherish and admire.  A very entertaining, funny, and uplifting read.  These also make for great gifts.g ultra dippy, when I read these I am reminded of my own values--or rather, Mma Ramotswe's view on the world is so admirable that I can't help stepping out side and feeling more benevolent.  And Mccall Smith doesn't accomplish this by preaching or educating, in fact I doubt the books were written with this response in mind but there it is, he simply gives us characters that we can't help but cherish and admire.  A very entertaining, funny, and uplifting read.  These also make for great gifts.	2005-09-02
US	34440397	RJ00TK6D9R2VE	1902615018	644285981	The Ultimate Gardening Book	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Enormous--But useful!	I'm always a little put-off by these enormous gardening books.  I worry that the instructions and plant listings will be too general, and that their real function will be as a doorstop or a prop for a broken coffee table leg.  I'm quite happy to report that The Ultimate Book of Gardening, while also making a substantial doorstop, is actually a terrific guide.  And despite the unwieldiness, I've referred to it often, as I find the step-by-step guides clearly illustrated and the text is well-marked, simple, and sensible.<br /><br />To name a few of the articles: laying stone paths, harvesting and keeping fruit throughout the winter, laying sod, creating gorgeous containers, setting up plots, drawing landscape plans etc.  The contents are split into: Introduction, Container gardening, The small garden, Gardening through the year, Garden design, Glossary, and Index.  I find the Garden design to be the most interesting.<br /><br />Don't let the size of the book intimidate.  With such cheap prices on Amazon for used copies, it's worth the shipping!	2005-08-31
US	34440397	R2TD66JJCP62UO	0789493926	526113544	Smithsonian Handbooks: Insects (Smithsonian Handbooks)	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Great guide--teach yourself to identify most insect families	This is really a nicely done guide and almost fits in my coat pocket.  The pictures are fabulous and the insects are divided up into their respective families with very clear identifying traits.  I'm really impressed, so much easy-to-use information in such a small book.  This would be a great precursor to an entomology class.  Some of my favorite critters are in the Psuedoscorpion order and are the cheliferids and chernetids, both of which look like tiny ticks with claws.  So very cool.  I actually found one once in Washington state--in my kitchen!  It was very, very tiny.  I digress.  A book like this is handy if you are always finding insects and wondering what the heck you are looking at.  A good value!	2005-08-31
US	34440397	R8YM5LV3K56OZ	0099478285	674405937	Orlando (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love reinvented.	My first book by Ms. Woolf, and it was an amazing, surreal read. Orlando is a love story, a wonderful mess-up of gender and all the questions about love that gender provokes, and an ode to creativity.<br /><br />The story begins with Orlando as a romantic youth, lacking in wisdom, but not in appreciation of beauty and lust for life.  His vibrancy catches the eye of the elderly Queen Elizabeth, who then, falls in love with his beauty and graces him with a court appointment and takes it upon herself to protect him from the usual pains that would befall someone of his status.  [It is at this point, in the movie (with Tilda Swinton), that Queen Elizabeth (Quentin Crisp) cryptically tells him, \\"Do not fade.  Do not wither.  Do not grow old.\\"  I did not find this quote in the book, but the sentiment is the same.  There is a special immortal something about Orlando that others  recognize and he is doomed and blessed to tumble through the ages in one guise or another.]<br /><br />Orlando falls from the queen's grace when she spies him with one of the many girls he courts.  Three years after the queen's disapproval, Orlando finds himself madly in love with a Russian princess, who will not marry him.  He falls asleep heartbroken, only to awake 50 years later in a different role, as an aristocratic poet.  And so go Orlando's series of romances and heartbreaks.  After several failed romances and the seeming death of his beloved poetry, Orlando reawakens as a woman, without skipping a beat.  We then follow him/her through subsequent decades and see Orlando grow in wisdom and knowledge of love.  One could say that perhaps his womanly incarnation is what Fate has thrown at him in order for him to understand what it is to be on the other side of the mirror.  Yet in either form he is admired.<br /><br />It's an odd story and plotwise, difficult to track, which is perhaps besides the point.  Certainly full of humor.  The only contemporary author to whom I can compare it is Jeannette Winterson and her novel The Passion--she has a similar interest in characters and love, and an equal disregard for rules of space, time, and gender roles. Winterson may be our modern day Woolf.<br /><br />If you haven't read Orlando, and you are unsure, try the movie first.  It is what prompted me to read the book.  The production is gorgeous and Tilda Swinton is perfect as Orlando.  And when you decide to read the book, there's plenty to be discovered that the movie can't touch on--for instance the writing nuances and styles.  I'll be rereading it soon and I'm eager to see what I'll find in my second passing.el The Passion--she has a similar interest in characters and love, and an equal disregard for rules of space, time, and gender roles. Winterson may be our modern day Woolf.      If you haven't read Orlando, and you are unsure, try the movie first.  It is what prompted me to read the book.  The production is gorgeous and Tilda Swinton is perfect as Orlando.  And when you decide to read the book, there's plenty to be discovered that the movie can't touch on--for instance the writing nuances and styles.  I'll be rereading it soon and I'm eager to see what I'll find in my second passing.	2005-08-30
US	34440397	ROBPFAA48YE5Y	0789494957	587071491	Northeast (SmartGarden Regional Guides)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Beautiful pictures, easy layout	SmartGarden's Northeast guide is a beautifully presented book with large photos of plants and brief write-ups on characteristics, as well as an easy-to-follow guide to sunlight needs, drought resistance, temperature, and height.  The two main sections are divided into Woody Plants and Herbaceous Plants, with each of those subdivided into various helpful planting categories like: Trees with purple foliage; perennials for dry, sunny sites; genuses; aquatic perennials for floral interest.<br /><br />I like the planting categories and have found them helpful, but I wish the write-ups were longer with more information about that plant.  Sometimes the categories are frustrating, as you might wish to look up a plant by family, but you can always cross-reference in the back.  One of my favorite plant books is Pojar and Mackinnon's Plants of the Pacific Northwest Coast and it contains incredible  information on all the plants, as well as an excellent navigation guide.  However, SmartGarden's Northeast is geared towards gardeners vs. botanists and is full of practical hands-on information.  The beginning and end of the book contain general notes on planting, soil testing, and wildlife encouragement or discouragement.  In terms of northeast plant guides, I would say this has been one of the best that I've found.  I love the full color photo spreads and the size of the book.  It's great to find something that makes gardening in certain growing conditions easier. A good addition to the gardening library.	2005-08-26
US	34440397	RLZ8PUUG9E2ON	1579902715	324095606	Handmade Tiles: Designing, Making, Decorating (A Lark Ceramics Book)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Grand, inspiring, and well written.  Incredible value!	With so many craft and pottery books on the market it's difficult to know which are worthy investments.  I've bombed on several that were boring and poorly photographed, but Frank Giorgini's book is accessible, nicely produced, informative, and full of some very inspiring tilework.<br /><br />Nr. Giorgini is no uptight grand master who sniffs at the idea of working with beginners.  He writes for both the very novice and the advanced crowd, never missing a beat.  The writing is at times humorous and he often points out flaws in some of his initial designs.  I can't help but like the guy.  And I like that this is not a showcase for his own work.  Most of his examples are the works of other talented tile artists.<br /><br />Handmade Tiles  is one of the best balanced artbooks I've found.  The color photos are gorgeous (and plentiful) and the text is necessary.  In the chapter dealing with mass production, he describes in detail how to make a tile press--and while I'm too chicken to fully embark on the project, I do mean to and I like knowing that he's supplied me with blueprints.<br /><br />Kudos, Mr. Giorgini.  You've inspired me and I hope you continue to provide us with textbooks.	2005-08-14
US	34440397	RVVDSP3EL5UEZ	0312339801	480919789	Unstuck: A Supportive and Practical Guide to Working Through Writer's Block	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The best book addressing the subject	I've had a serious three year block and have tried desperately to get out of it.  I had looked at several books about writer's block and all of them were feel-good garbage or throwaway 101 Tips to...<br /><br />Staw's book is the best I found dealing with the subject.  As one reviewer noted, it's difficult to even take time to read a self-help book, because you tend to feel that it's one more case of avoidance or procrastination and the hour it took to read could have been spent writing.  But Staw has some salient, psychotherapy-based points about those feelings--guilt and avoidance.  She emphasizes kindness to oneself instead of listening to the inner hypercritic, and while this might sound like feel-good nonsense, the way she writes about it makes sense and this technique pretty common in counseling.  Her examples of patients experiencing writer's block range from mild to extreme--which made me feel better. This guide by no means got rid of my block, but in some ways it gave me (or allowed me to give myself) permission to write sloppily.  There's no way I can write as well as I'd like to, certainly not while experiencing a block, and I feel that Staw really nails it when she points out how counterproductive this drive for perfection can be.  I've since loosened up enough to start writing small things without caring so much about the outcome (these reviews for instance)--and it's been a pleasurable step in the right direction.	2005-08-03
US	34440397	R1POTACTGDY1CT	0060295015	791262801	Father Fox's Pennyrhymes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Warm nights by the fire.  A childhood gem.	I am so pleased to find this book on Amazon. I grew up reading it and the rhymes are still so vivid. The illustrations by Wendy Watson are splendid and offer a wonderful glimpse into family life and life in small communities--quaint and old fashioned. It's a Garrison Keillor or Dylan Thomas type of world. The sweet and humorous pictures often contain little snippets of conversation (between the foxes) that illuminate the rhymes and make it that much more interesting a read, and there's always something happening in the background that makes it fun to pore over. I would highly recommend this for children 3-7. It's a warm book and perfect for a Fall day when the leaves are turning or Winter evening with a cup of cocoa.	2005-08-03
US	34440397	R1ERF8B4N6V0L2	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Small town life realism??	A small town girl, I was looking forward to Russo's depiction of Empire Falls, a failing blue-collar community--not so different from my hometown whose timber mills went bust in the 80's.  I'm afraid I found it unconvincing despite the likeable characters.<br /><br />Protagonist Miles Roby is a good-hearted, self doubting grill  owner, who spends hours wondering if he should have returned to Empire Falls after college.  His selfish wife has recently left him for the owner of a health club, who insists on making friendly, yet annoying, overtures while Miles waits tables, like challenging Miles to arm wrestle. When not dealing with her parents' divorce, Miles' daughter Tick has her own set of problems at school where she is isolated by her rejection of a former boyfriend.  And, Francine Whiting, Empire Fall's aged \\"benefactress\\" and owner of the majority of its properties, spends much of her time grooming and manipulating Miles, in a gothic tale of friendship and revenge.<br /><br />The relationship between Janine, Mile's soon-to-be-ex-wife, and Miles was affecting.  Both characters try to find their own way and Janine's slow transformation was well done.  I would have enjoyed Empire Falls more had it not included the overly soap operatic Francine Whiting plot, as well as the strange, and thoroughly modern tale of alienation that takes place among Tick and her acquaintances.  In several of the critics' reviews I read Empire Falls was funny, but I'm afraid I missed that element.  There's a sense of irony that could double for humor, but no laugh out loud moments, in fact, I rarely even came close to grinning.  But maybe Miles' gee-shucks type of character just isn't my bag.<br /><br />Mr. Russo's tale of rural life read like a made-for-television, most likely Lifetime, movie, and it is easy to imagine Hollywood's vision of the story.  Not having a television, I hadn't realized that this is EXACTLY what Empire Falls is--and when I found the dvd on Amazon I was not at all surprised.  That said, I am glad that Russo brought some modern edges to his characters; for instance a priest who, though thoroughly devout, questions his own sexuality and grace in the eye of God.  As well as a more real look at the current style of violence that teenagers face even in rural schools.I am glad that Russo brought some modern edges to his characters; for instance a priest who, though thoroughly devout, questions his own sexuality and grace in the eye of God.  As well as a more real look at the current style of violence that teenagers face even in rural schools.	2005-07-28
US	34440397	RF15V23Y8PUIH	0761136193	278129010	Bad Cat: 244 Not-So-Pretty Kitties and Cats Gone Bad	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Marmaduke isn't funny, I hate Heathcliff, and Garfield is pure tedium.  But this book rocks.	I picked this up at a grocery store and started flipping through.  I generally don't like \\"animal books\\" unless they're informative, but I found myself snickering and had to edge into the aisle before people started giving me funny looks.  Each cat has a one line biopic and almost every one of the pictures and captions is funny.  Hitchcock age 8, a creamy brown and white Siamese mix, lists his hobby as \\"Tracking down my biological father.\\"  There's also Mike, who in addition to having a thing for golden retrievers (\\"big dumb blondes\\") likes candlepin bowling.  What the heck is candlepin bowling?  And yet another lists \\"Puppetry of the ancients.\\"  I had to giggle.  The humour is just so oddball that it was right up my alley.<br /><br />At anyrate, in terms of gift books and quick pick-me-ups, this is a winner and I'm giving it the full five stars for its genre.  It's a perfect present for a coworker, a sick friend, a \\"sick\\" friend, and cat lovers who don't take themselves too seriously.  If you enjoy this book, you might also be amused by The Dog Owner's Manual: Operating instructions, troubleshooting tips, and advice on lifetime maintenance.	2005-07-20
US	34440397	R2EO76HPRZNCAW	1931686858	545686767	The Dog Owner's Manual: Operating Instructions, Troubleshooting Tips, and Advice on Lifetime Maintenance	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent gift for new dog owners	Though informative, the real value is in the illustrations and amusing text which has been written in the style of a computer manual.  In the section on dog anatomy, nipples are described as  preinstalled docking ports for peripherals, noting that \\"the circuitry of the male model renders these valves inoperative.\\"  The book is liberally peppered with gems like these.  Another reviewer mentioned that the illustrations are very Ikea and that was spot on--Ikea ought to consider selling this in their pet section.  I would not personally use this book to replace a more text-base dog book with photos, but it's ideal as a gift, worth the laughs, and has some interesting facts and essential information.	2005-07-20
US	34440397	R2ADZRB6CV9FJP	0520223233	252341373	An Inordinate Fondness for Beetles	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Exquisite.	If someone said, \\"Ok, you're being sent to a colony on Jupiter's second moon and you only get to bring one picture book with you,\\" this would be it.  It is a stunning book.  One reviewer mentioned being moved to tears, and it really is no joke.  The photos of the beetles are gorgeous and the text is really well written.<br /><br />People generally fear insects, regard them as pests, or don't bother thinking about them at all.  Arthur Evans gives weight to what is frequently overlooked.  Taking one order, Coleoptera (beetles), he uses it as a means to discuss the big picture on Earth--balance and biodiversity.  Evans manages all of this with a sense of reverence and even spirituality that complements the statistics and hard data:<br /><br />\\"...But viewing beetles simply as machines, without understanding their role in the ecosystem, is a narrow perspective that reflects intellectual, spatial, and temporal limitations.  As the world's ecosystems continue to shrink in the wake of human exploitation--a direct result of our ever-burgeoning population--our approach to all the sciences must continue to evolve from an analysis of parts to a necessarily more holistic approach.  We must learn to view beetles not as machines, but as conduits of energy flowing through the entire biosphere.\\"<br /><br />I'd always been fascinated by insects, but this book really honed my interest and since I bought it, it has inspired me to learn more about them and share what I've learned.  I even had the great luck of meeting a weevil expert.  Beetles are simply incredible little animals and I'm really glad that Evans has written a book about them that is so accessible and lovely.	2005-07-19
US	34440397	R3832MKKO4Y3W9	0156001942	79109568	Winter's Tale	Books	5	17	21	N	N	One of my top ten books	I'll keep this review short or I'll be at risk of repeating what other reviewers have already said, and said well.  This is one of my favorite books.  I came across the title several times, and though intrigued, I'd never committed to it--the synopsis on the  paperback's back cover hadn't won me over.  Finally, when I was desperate for a book I picked it up again.  I read it in two days--with hardly a break.  It is a stunning book.  I really did laugh out loud and sob when it was finished.  Helprin's imaginary New York City is epic, vast, and so full of life.  Within three pages I was completely enraptured.<br /><br />It does remind me a bit of Dickens--in terms of description, characters, and some of the time frame.  And while their style and plotlines are completely different, I had the same reaction to Helprin's Winter's Tale as I had to John Irving's World According to Garp and Son of the Circus.  Both authors weave humor, pain, longing, and love so seamlessly.  I feel like a traitor suggesting that Helprin is a superior author, but it may be so.<br /><br />If you are interested in this book, I'd actually save it for when the temperature drops, as it was such a pleasure to read during winter--really evocative.  A great novel for a chilly November or December.  Grab some mulled wine and a comfy chair.	2005-07-19
US	34440397	R1ITHEASW00PBZ	0553382950	630257379	Light	Books	2	40	55	N	N	Wish I hadn't paid full price...	Everyone seemed blown away by M. John Harrison's writing.  Based on the recommendations, I gave it a go.<br /><br />Boiled down, the book has three plot threads.  Harrison begins with Michael Kearney, a sick, yet brilliant serial killer who is obsessed with a pair of dice and some creepy idea called \\"The Shrander\\" that's chasing him.  When not dabbling in quantum mechanics and time travel, Kearney kills people in order to keep the Shrander at bay.  250 more complicated pages to go before you begin to understand or give a hooey as to why.  After being introduced to Kearney, plot upheaval, and we find ourselves with the former Seria Mau Genlicher, a woman who becomes a starship, the White Cat (one of many Schrodinger references).  Seria is intriguing and Uncle Zip, the genetic tailor she makes a bargain with is terrific.  Harrison's writing and imagination start to shine at this point and I found myself more involved.  Just as I got settled into a short groove, plot switch again, and we're at a tank farm.  Kind of a junkie's alternate reality.  Ed Chianese, a new character, is hooked on tank life and spends much of his life and money escaping his dismal reality.  Ed actually brings a bit of humour and depth to the story.  Ed is the first character I really, really liked.<br /><br />As the book progresses we find that the White Cat wants her real life back, and like Kearney, has no compunctions about killing to get closer to sanity.  Kearney, who is being hunted not only by the Shrander, but by his best friend and co-worker of sorts, is no more likeable and continues to explore quantum physics possibilities--meanwhile contemplating killing Anna, his co-dependent girlfriend who knows how twisted he is but unbelievably continues to love/want him.  Ed Chianese gets caught up in bizarre situations and in a short-term love nest with a beefed up rickshaw girl named Annie (another incredible character--along with the Cray sisters), and eventually comes to realize that things are more complicated and worse than he thought.  Ufda.<br /><br />I came to the same conclusion as Ed Chianese.  Things were worse and more complicated than I originally thought.  The plot is a wormhole, which may or may not appeal to others.  The threads eventually intertwine, but by the time they do, I was too frustrated by the author's bouts of incredible imagination and obvious intelligence mixed with the I-don't-care-about-my-readers attitude that the plot and writing demonstrate.<br /><br />Harrison's bright, and like any nerd, I wanted to read and follow and then be able to tout how marvelous the book was simply so that I could claim I understood it all.  Yeah, I got it, but I don't think it was worth the effort.  I tried and tried and tried to like the damn thing, but to no avail.  The ending was a let down.  After all the twists and turns and talk, I expected something really grand.  Plus, I'd been putting up with the idea that Kearney was \\"justifiably\\" killing people...  It's a cold book.  All of the characters felt like vehicles for ideas, rather than fully realized people I care about--the exception being Ed, but Ed isn't really what Ed thinks Ed is...and that just made me sad.  That said, physics geeks might enjoy this, if only for the chance to read a fiction author who obviously knows and appreciates the stuff.plicated and worse than he thought.  Ufda.    I came to the same conclusion as Ed Chianese.    Things were worse and more complicated than I originally thought.  The plot is a wormhole, which may or may not appeal to others.  The threads eventually intertwine, but by the time they do, I was too frustrated by the author's bouts of incredible imagination and obvious intelligence mixed with the I-don't-care-about-my-readers attitude that the plot and writing demonstrate.      Harrison's bright, and like any nerd, I wanted to read and follow and then be able to tout how marvelous the book was simply so that I could claim I understood it all.  Yeah, I got it, but I don't think it was worth the effort.  I tried and tried and tried to like the damn thing, but to no avail.  The ending was a let down.  After all the twists and turns and talk, I expected something really grand.  Plus, I'd been putting up with the idea that Kearney was \\"justifiably\\" killing people...  It's a cold book.  All of the characters felt like vehicles for ideas, rather than fully realized people I care about--the exception being Ed, but Ed isn't really what Ed thinks Ed is...and that just made me sad.  That said, physics geeks might enjoy this, if only for the chance to read a fiction author who obviously knows and appreciates the stuff.	2005-07-17
US	34440397	REVJDJONOMV9O	044050340X	74709901	Psion (Cat)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	My new boyfriend	This was my first introduction to Joan D. Vinge and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Cat's young, smart, bitter, and incredibly resourceful.  He's an orphan making ends meet in Oldcity, a slum beneath Quarro, where its denizens are without data bands and must live carefully.  Cat's feline eyes mark him as being part Hydran, an alien race feared for its telepathic powers. He  becomes a pawn in an effort to hunt down a criminal and must learn to control his telepathic powers.<br /><br />Cat's a terrific character.  One of my favorites, maybe.  He's the perfect rebel and definitely boyfriend material.  If you brought him home to meet your mom, she'd raise an eyebrow and be put off by his rough looks, but eventually won over by his dynamite intelligence and honesty.<br /><br />Joan de Vinge is a solid writer, and as one reviewer commented, similar to early Anne McAffrey--though much better in the character development department.  Some reviewers have commented that the book is fluffy.  I won't deny it, it isn't a SERIOUS read. De Vinge isn't William Gibson or Neal Stephenson or Marge Piercy.  But she's got a fully imagined world with really strong and empathetic characters who encounter real-world situations: racial discrimination, teen angst, and alienation.  And I'm not just saying all this just because Cat is my boyfriend.	2005-07-16
US	34440397	R2SFQ08C3TTZDD	0767914767	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada a Novel	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Great title, terrible read	Written in much the same style as the Nanny Diaries and packed with similar faults, The Devil Wears Prada is a real disappointment.  I loved the title and am always down with a bit of dirt on the fashion industry to fuel my love/hate relationship, so I was really looking forward to a juicy  weekend read.<br /><br />Urgh.  I found myself stuck in a plotline where predictably dowdy Andrea, the main character, is working for fashion magazine boss-from-hell, yet is too weak to quit.  Andrea lives and learns painful lessons while kowtowing to her boss.  And when she does finally does work up some gumption, you can't help but wonder why it took some 200 pages to do so and why it feels so terribly boring?  Why oh why?  Admittedly, Miranda Priestly, said boss-from-hell, based on Anna Wintour of Vogue and Lauren Weisberger's ex boss, is fascinating in her nihilistic and pitiless bitchy romp, but God, everyone else is so sychophantic and weak.  It's hardly shocking that a character based on Wintour is outrageously awful, what's shocking are the like Andrea that work for her.  Why won't someone just dump a milkshake on this woman's head (or Anna Wintour's for that matter)?  And the scenes with Alex, Andrea's boyfriend in supporting role, were slightly nauseating.  Let's just say he's dreamy, works with underprivileged children, blah, blah and get on with it.<br /><br />If you really liked the Nanny Diaries, then I'd recommend the Devil Wears Prada.  Aside from subject matter, they are so similar in style and predicament that I had to double-check the authors' names to make certain they were different.  If you're in need of a good bathtub read, try In Her Shoes, remarkably well-written.	2005-07-16
US	34440397	R27X6BMJOJLYDQ	0140231706	502785255	Berlin Noir: March Violets; The Pale Criminal; A German Requiem	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It was a dark and stormy night...	Berlin Noir is a like a really good pumpernickel bagel, a little chewy, a little difficult to begin, but ah so tasty.  Initially, I slogged through the first 100 pages.  After that point it was difficult to put down.<br /><br />Kerr divides the book into three novels narrated by Bernie Gunther, our squint eyed and none-too handsome detective.  March Violets takes place right before the Nazis gain control of Germany, The Pale Criminal is during the Reich, and German Requiem takes place after the war.  Each novel is a mystery in which Gunther finds himself tangled in political and family intrigues where things are rarely what they seem.  The last novel was my favorite and a real nailbiter.  Of the three, I believe the second was the least satisfying.<br /><br />The history is fascinating for those who wonder how an entire population could have been led to genocide and the other brutalities that marked Hitler's reign.  Kerr's Germany is not without sympathy and it's easy to imagine how people in neutral positions, like Bernie Gunther, found themselves caught in a political dance.  Before I began the book I wondered how Kerr would handle the setting and I think he's done an incredible job.  I liked it for its lack of sugarcoating and the way in which it made even the worst of characters compelling.<br /><br />As a whole, Berlin Noir is a very stylistic novel (Chandler comparisons etc), and if you find that type of writing irritating at all, you would do best to avoid it.  Each page is brimming with descriptive metaphors and similies (in fact, so much that I occasionally started counting them).  For instance:  \\"Wearing a black hat that was like a grand piano with the lid up, Ilse Rudel was even more beautiful in mourning than she was in bed.\\"  A grand piano?  With its lid up?  Ridiculous, yet I could picture it clearly. That sense of juxtaposition--Ilse's cold pale beauty and her funky hat--is sometimes humorous, occasionally jarring, but entirely in keeping with Gunther's narration.  Very enjoyable.<br /><br />This is the type of book you stay up late reading with a good bottle of  wine (maybe an \\"I'm-not-drinking-any-#@!!*-merlot\\") and some bread (bagels?) and cheese.yable.    This is the type of book you stay up late reading with a good bottle of  wine (maybe an \\"I'm-not-drinking-any-#@!!*-merlot\\") and some bread (bagels?) and cheese.	2005-07-15
US	34440397	RZM0DFNCIHN49	0380729709	548490057	The Cage	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Achingly harsh and beautiful	The Cage is a chillingly toothy book about disaster, survival, and human nature.  Beautifully written.  Audrey Schulman is my hero.<br /><br />Beryl is a woman whose smallness has always been seen as a vulnerability and who has often treated her \\"own body as the enemy.\\"  Yet it is her very size that lands her a job as the still photographer for a Natural Photography trip to the arctic to photograph polar bears.  The coordinator of the expedition explains to her: \\"You are the only one able to fit into the cage with any reasonable safety factor.\\"  He then adds that he hopes she appreciates this opportunity.  The opportunity is a risky one and Beryl soon finds herself with two other photographers and a guide taking close ups of polar bears in their natural habitat.  Between the trips out to take shots of the bears, Beryl forms friendships with a local policewoman, Maggie, and Jean-Claude, the young half-Inuit guide.  The final third of the book takes place in the middle of the tundra, where the seemingly well-equipped expedition becomes stranded.<br /><br />The Cage is ultimately a book about survival and ends on a note that, while moving and still hopeful, may be uncomfortable for some people.  Schulman is completely unsentimental about the lives of her characters.  Sometimes terrible things happen to good people.  The writing is intriguing and feels honest: Maggie tells Beryl about her encounter with one of the bears that dragged her, ripping her cheek apart.<br /><br />\\"The strange part was, she said, when the bear had reached forward with its mouth open for the front of her parka, she'd relaxed.  Like the bear was going to give her a backrub.  Her muscles just loosened.  She'd felt the pressure, the tugging, but she'd been peaceful, very aware and far away.<br />  She ran her hand round the edge of her bandages and said, 'You're going to think this is really weird of me.  But it was one of the best moments of my life.'\\"<br /><br />As a naturalist, I've spent large amounts of time working with and observing animals, and Schulman's unvarnished look at Nature, both the beautiful and the grotesque sides of it, really hit home.  And Beryl is believable as a woman who feels she is stronger than other people believe, and finally finds herself in a situation where she must use that strength.bserving animals, and Schulman's unvarnished look at Nature, both the beautiful and the grotesque sides of it, really hit home.  And Beryl is believable as a woman who feels she is stronger than other people believe, and finally finds herself in a situation where she must use that strength.	2005-07-15
US	34440397	R35J8DZ7M97XBB	0609609327	423983348	P. Allen Smith's Garden Home: Creating a Garden for Everyday Living	Books	2	77	87	N	N	Lackluster	I hate to be the fly-in-the-ointment, but I didn't care for P. Allen Smith's Garden Home.  I ordered it because I thought the photos would be spectacular and it sounded like a terrific how-to-guide.<br /><br />While P. Allen has some fine principles, especially when discussing gardens as exterior rooms, the book was lacking in the how-to element, instead focusing on concepts (most of which seemed too basic), and the pictures were not as stunning as I had hoped.  The photos seem sparse for such a large book--I like my gardening books either popping with colorful photos or full of botanical info.  A tremendous amount of the writing is spent discussing color wheel concepts which I found boring and unnecessary.  What I did like were P. Allen's drawings, they're terrific and I wish his editors had included more.<br /><br />I also was put off by his continual reference to Lady Elizabeth Ashbrook, one of his noble acquaintances.  Had the book been a tribute to her I might have felt it was in keeping, but the references were jarring.  And I couldn't make the connection to the subtitle \\"A Garden for Everyday Living\\".  As my irritation with the Lady Ashbrook references grew I found solace in P. Allen's remarkable hairdo.<br /><br />All in all, P. Allen Smith's Garden Home is a fluffy \\"celebrity book\\" and if you are looking for inspirational books, then you might prefer his Container Gardening--which not only has more beautiful photos, but is a better hands-on guide.<br /><br />Good general gardening, landscaping books--Garden Transformations by Bunny Guinness is an especially inspired read and despite the low-budget cover on my copy, it has beautiful pictures and actually gives step-by-step pictures.  Another good picture book is Great Escapes by Judith Miller, which features architecture and plantings.	2005-07-14
US	34440397	R3KXCCK67EGAR6	0670034118	289140196	The Wonder Spot	Books	2	6	8	N	Y	Static and depressing	After reading Girl's Guide to Hunting and Fishing, I couldn't wait to get my hands on Bank's new book and bought it the first day it was out.  Unfortunately, I found it a disjointed mash of vignettes with no real satisfactory evolution.<br /><br />Where Girl's Guide is a vibrant and sarcastic ode to the frustrations of a bright single woman, The Wonderspot is a dull and depressing read.  Sophie Applebaum, our narrator, is also single, but unlike the protagonist of Girl's Guide, she's an underachiever who claims to be in search of contentment, yet seems to habitually discard any possibilities for happiness.  The Wonderspot's vignettes document her life from a very early age to her thirties.  Time and time again the Sophie finds herself in relationships and jobs that are unfulfilling.  But it was difficult to sympathize, because Sophie's smart enough to realize she's been unhappy for a while, yet can't summon the energy to change course.  Unfortunately, none of it is really resolved and the ending chapter titled The Wonderspot didn't leave me feeling much had changed.  Some felt it ended on a hopeful note, but I felt like I'd been abandoned dog-paddling in the ocean.<br /><br />The Wonderspot does a good job of capturing the apathy that some  30-somethings go through, that not-quite-mid-life-crisis (certainly I can relate to that--and Sophie's very bad jobs were funny simply because I've been and still am there), but it just doesn't do it with the grace that the author is capable of.  Girl's Guide was honest, funny, and did an incredible job of toeing the line between light comedy and something very substantial.  A remarkable combination.  I'm under the impression that Wonderspot is supposed to be the heavier of the two books, but instead it feels more shallow and unfinished.  Maybe Ms. Bank's agents were getting edgy and were pushing her to publish whether the work was really ready or not.  Whatever the reason, I hope her next book is better and for those who haven't read Melissa Bank, I would highly recommend Girl's Guide to Hunting and Fishing over The Wonder Spot.Bank, I would highly recommend Girl's Guide to Hunting and Fishing over The Wonder Spot.	2005-07-14
US	34440397	R10DVB4EFC5LC8	0060593083	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wade through it, it's worth it	The Baroque Cycle is a major departure from Neal Stephenson's usual mind-whirling sci-fi.  It's still mind-whirling, but the time period is post-Cromwellian Europe, when science and economy are violent and dependent on intrigue, war, and resources.  The title works as a metaphor for several elements in the plot.  Quicksilver, the first tome in the Baroque cycle, is actually divided into three books.<br /><br />Book One opens with an older Daniel Waterhouse being summoned from Massachusetts, back to London.  It then flips between Daniel's present voyage and his youth in Europe.  Waterhouse, a Puritan, belongs to the Royal Natural Society--one of the few places where he can set aside his religious and class differences and concentrate on his true passion, science.  Newton, Hooke, and Liebniz are all important characters and contribute to Daniel's education and gradual departure from the strictures of his religion and his slow immersion into the politics of the time.  The second book is about Eliza and Jack.  Eliza is a slave girl rescued by the famous and syphilitic Jack Shaftoe, King of the Vagabonds (the lowest of London's low lives).  Jack rescues Eliza from her doomed fate as a Turkish harem girl and they form a partnership as they try to unload goods that Jack has picked up during his time as a soldier.  Eliza is preternaturally gifted in manipulation, beauty, and verve, and Jack, (also called Half-Cocked Jack) slowly going mad from syphilis, falls under her spell.  As Eliza studies the local economy, they become involved with some of the characters mentioned in the first book, establishing contact with members of the Royal Society and eventually with plotting nobility.  With her wit and beauty, Eliza is singled out and becomes a source of information to those  scheming to overthrow the current ruler.  The third book within Quicksilver weaves the plots into a tighter mesh, elaborating on the fates of Eliza and Daniel as each become instrumental in changing the fate of England.<br /><br />It's a terrific novel, but a lot of work.  I love biology and I'm intrigued by math and physics, but it was at times overwhelming. The sheer volume of facts, characters, and history has me in awe of Stephenson's research and knowledge.  I think it's spectacularly imagined.  And that's why I'm giving it such a high rating.  The only character that didn't resonate with me was Eliza. The third book does flesh her out a little, but I got tired of how easily she manipulates people with her endless charms.  Overall, the humor isn't as easy or present as, say, the humor in Diamond Age, which I loved, or Snow Crash.  More sly asides.  I caught a few in the first book, but I'm embarassed to say that I probably would have caught more if I understood more about the development of calculus, physics, and structured biology.  I found the first book quite dry compared to the others, but I finally hit my stride and began to really enjoy it (probably because I finally caught one of the jokes...).  Daniel is an excellent character and his development is interesting and really well-done.  If you have a historical bent, a love of science, and some patience then I'd highly recommend this book.England.    It's a terrific novel, but a lot of work.  I love biology and I'm intrigued by math and physics, but it was at times overwhelming. The sheer volume of facts, characters, and history has me in awe of Stephenson's research and knowledge.  I think it's spectacularly imagined.  And that's why I'm giving it such a high rating.  The only character that didn't resonate with me was Eliza. The third book does flesh her out a little, but I got tired of how easily she manipulates people with her endless charms.  Overall, the humor isn't as easy or present as, say, the humor in Diamond Age, which I loved, or Snow Crash.  More sly asides.  I caught a few in the first book, but I'm embarassed to say that I probably would have caught more if I understood more about the development of calculus, physics, and structured biology.  I found the first book quite dry compared to the others, but I finally hit my stride and began to really enjoy it (probably because I finally caught one of the jokes...).  Daniel is an excellent character and his development is interesting and really well-done.  If you have a historical bent, a love of science, and some patience then I'd highly recommend this book.	2004-11-11
US	34440397	R2ACVM3QV45L8D	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fun, enjoyable	This is a definite bathtub read.  I like Gaiman's style; I get the feeling he doesn't take himself overly seriously, like many of the modern goth-fantasy-sci-fi authors do.  He takes himself seriously enough to write well, but not so seriously that his book lacks entertainment.  The references in American Gods are at times tongue in cheek.  The Old Gods and their various petty rivalries and alliances, and the New Gods, who act as a commentary on our current social state--good fun if you ask me, good dark fun.  It's an involving plot though, admittedly, lots going on.	2004-11-05
US	34440397	RDLFI8I85Z7S1	0679734775	644788834	The House on Mango Street	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lovely voice, poetic	I'm kind of amused by the bad reviews on this book--seems that particular audience really was not ideal.  This is definitely an adult's book or a book for a young person who loves poetry.  I think this book is perfect if you love language and you love the idea of interwoven yet scattered stories in a small neighborhood.  These are lovely vignettes of life and friends and family, and while there are some connecting themes in the book, it doesn't follow a chronology or plot per se, just emotions.  She's really a terrific writer and I keep hoping, if she hasn't already, that she will write something plot-driven, because I think it will be superb.  The stories in The House on Mango Street are moving.  If you liked The Color Purple or if you're a fan of Diane Ackerman or Marge Percy, then I think this might be a worthwhile read for you.	2004-11-05
US	34440397	R2NFR8E4PJ37O4	0517112566	148207962	He, She & It	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Great love story	I read this many years ago.  It was originally published in 1991, so as far as sci-fi innovations and ideas, it's a bit behind, and perhaps was at the time.  I really loved it when I read it initially, because I think it works primarily as a romance for those of us that aren't interested in \\"romantic fiction\\".  I was just becoming interested in sci-fi, so I enjoyed that element at the time, and I enjoyed the Jewish historical tale of the golem that parallels the actual plot.  There are leaps in logic, as one of the reviewers below pointed out, but as a love story, I think it's great.  The characters are well-developed and grow.  Yod is definitely \\"man redefined in the eyes of women\\", so I don't know if this would be appealing to male readers.  (This has been called \\"feminist sci-fi\\" so let that be a warning to those who don't prefer.)  But Yod's intelligent, macho, and groovy...so why not?  Sort of the sensitive new age man, but with more kahonas, faster reflexes, and prowess in certain arts.  ahem.  Shira's relatable as a frustrated young woman, leaving an inappropriate marriage, and trying to avoid past mistakes.	2004-11-05
US	34440397	R2E7YXP5GOTT1W	0312890729	318023725	King Rat	Books	2	14	19	N	N	Refried mythology = a Taco Bell of a tale	If you haven't read the jacket cover, King Rat is a modern day Pied Piper tale.  Saul, the main character, is a quiet, awkward young man who is caught in a bittersweet relationship with his father.  When his father is suddenly murdered, Saul is left alone, scared, and framed.  Now the prime suspect, Saul must flee the scene.  Enter King Rat and his subterranean lifestyle.  King Rat offers Saul protection, but  it comes at a price.  Saul follows the ratman underground and into the sewers and back alleys where he must learn to use his senses and instincts to survive.  As Saul adapts to his new life, one of two of his only friends in the \\"real\\" world, finds a blond stranger outside of her apartment, keenly listening to the drum-in-bass tracks she's created.  The stranger has a flute and is intent on collaboration...<br /><br />Mieville does a great job of the relationship between Saul and King Rat--curiosity, loathing, and admiration.  I loved the mix of disgusting scents and tastes that Saul experiences as he learns to become a rat (nothing like moldy bread and pre-chewed meat to whet the appetite).  Nice dark overtones.  Unfortunately I just couldn't get into the Piper premise and it made the book an extremely clunky read (apologies to die-hard Mieville fans).  The retold tale felt like what it was, a vehicle or skeleton for the more engrossing relationship between Saul and King Rat, and I couldn't help wondering why Mieville didn't give the story a new mythology--he's certainly creative enough.  What made it worse for me, is that Mieville doesn't stop with the Pied Piper, he goes on to include ancillary folklore gods like Ananzi the mythical African spider king, LopLop bird leader (I think this might be a French myth, but not sure), and I believe there's another character that makes a cameo.  It's just too much for me.  The plotline just dragged.  I would have been much happier if Mieville had just focused on King Rat and Saul and Saul's father.  The interactions of those three characters and the mystery of Saul's mother's death (in the first fifth or so of the book) were far more interesting than the Piper premise.  Mieville's definitely an interesting writer.  I haven't give up, but King Rat was not a winner for me.<br /><br />I found myself wishing I were rereading Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere The similar subject matter's uncanny--Gaiman had the jump though, publishing his in 1998 vs. Mieville's 2000.  [Neverwhere's plot ALSO takes place in London's Underground with and ALSO has a displaced main character.  Coincidence?  Consider: Gaiman's American Gods (2001) has a Mr. Nancy (an Anansi character), as well as a huge turnout of mythological gods (a much funnier book in my mind). Did Gaiman and Mieville make some sort of bet or oath over a pint? I'm turning into a conspiracy theorist, but things just get beyond odd when you consider Gaiman's new book titled Anansi Boys.  Whaddup boys??  But I digress--]  If you're looking for something comparably dark to King Rat, slightly tongue-in-cheek, and in the same dang location, read Neverwhere first.  It's a more enjoyable, with fewer extraneous plotlines, and Gaiman doesn't seem to take himself as seriously.e three characters and the mystery of Saul's mother's death (in the first fifth or so of the book) were far more interesting than the Piper premise.  Mieville's definitely an interesting writer.  I haven't give up, but King Rat was not a winner for me.    I found myself wishing I were rereading Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere The similar subject matter's uncanny--Gaiman had the jump though, publishing his in 1998 vs. Mieville's 2000.  [Neverwhere's plot ALSO takes place in London's Underground with and ALSO has a displaced main character.  Coincidence?  Consider: Gaiman's American Gods (2001) has a Mr. Nancy (an Anansi character), as well as a huge turnout of mythological gods (a much funnier book in my mind). Did Gaiman and Mieville make some sort of bet or oath over a pint? I'm turning into a conspiracy theorist, but things just get beyond odd when you consider Gaiman's new book titled Anansi Boys.  Whaddup boys??  But I digress--]  If you're looking for something comparably dark to King Rat, slightly tongue-in-cheek, and in the same dang location, read Neverwhere first.  It's a more enjoyable, with fewer extraneous plotlines, and Gaiman doesn't seem to take himself as seriously.	2004-11-02
US	34440397	RH0AL51CP3PMV	0060514671	287169821	A Child's Christmas In Wales and Five Poems	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Gorgeous voice	I had read excerpts of A Child's Christmas in Wales and loved what I had read, but it wasn't until I heard the entire tale in Dylan's voice on NPR that I completely fell in love with it.  Dylan's voice is warm, deep, slightly wry, and rolling.<br /><br />If you haven't read it or heard it, it's a retelling of a Christmas past to a child.  And it has the same questions and interruptions as you would expect from a small listener and has the same weight of an exaggerated epic that you might expect from a favorite uncle or father telling one of their \\"days of yore\\" stories.<br /><br />I've been told that Dylan's largest fan base is in the U.S., and A Child's Christmas in Wales has the same charming humor and nostalgia that Rockwell's paintings and Garrison Keillor's Lake Wobegon Days capture.  An idealized notion of American middle class values, but a hint of self-mocking that keeps it grounded.  I think he perfectly captures the expectations of Christmas and the feel of large family gatherings.  A favorite bit in which he describes the Uncles who sit in the parlors and breath like dolphins and the pale little aunts that seem to accumulate at family holidays:<br /><br />\\"Some few large men sat in the front parlors, without their collars, Uncles almost certainly, trying their new cigars, holding them out judiciously at arms' length, returning them to their mouths, coughing, then holding them out again as though waiting for the explosion; and some few small aunts, not wanted in the kitchen, nor anywhere else for that matter, sat on the very edge of their chairs, poised and brittle, afraid to break, like faded cups and saucers.\\"<br /><br />Every time I read or hear it I get some deep-rooted domestic compulsion and feel the need run out and buy eggnog, knit something (nevermind the fact that I don't know how to), or find a rocking chair to sit on in front of a fire.	2004-11-02
US	34440397	R5LAFC1T9GEJW	1551050404	643221385	Plants of the Pacific Northwest Coast: Washington, Oregon, British Columbia, and Alaska	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My favorite reference!	This is by far the best native plant guide for the Northwest that I've encountered.  My family has amassed quite a few guides for local plants, but none come close to containing the information that Pojar and MacKinnon have put in this book.  Plants are listed according to families, using common family names, though there is a glossary for the scientific names in the List of Keys on p 6.  The pictures are for the most part excellent.  The Notes are fantastic and I love the tribal use section as I have a particular interest in ethnobotany.  The introduction also includes a great breakdown of the NW tribes and their whereabouts and distinctions.  This book is very easy to use, making it perfect for the hobbyist, yet I think the information is exact enough with good identification keys and illustrations that hardcore botanists would find it a useful addition to their references.<br /><br />It's a touch heavy to go hiking with, though if I weren't such a slug I might take it anyway.  I usually take photos of any unfamiliar plants I find and then cross-reference when I'm home.<br /><br />There is a revised edition coming out Nov. 30th, 2004 and I can't wait to get my paws on it!  My current copy is completely dog-eared.  I just wish the editors and authors (you listening?) would consider a guide to the Northeast coast.	2004-11-02
