US	34833363	R2L1NVA1ZZ0Z5H	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	3	5	8	N	N	A darker re-reading after the hurricane.	Count me as another reader who, in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, determined to re-read Confederacy of Dunces for its setting in the city of New Orleans.  This was a return trip for me, having first read CoD back in the early 80s.  In the time since, I've been able to visit the city several times; those memories and the state of NOLA post-disaster made the depictions of Magazine Street and the Quarter and the Riverfront more poignant.   <br /> <br />But more than that, the post-disaster scenes of New Orleans have affected my experience of the book this time around; the broken-down neighborhoods and weary slums didn't seem so cheerily cartoonish this time.  Jones working for 'minimal wage' wasn't quite so funny and the scenes in the Levy Pants factory with its sorry conditions seemed darker and more desperate than amusing.  Yes, the novel is meant to be a rollicking farce and it has its guffaw moments, but it's no longer the hilarious corker that kept me laughing page after page at the first reading.  I guess, 20 years later, neither I or New Orleans are the same as we were back then.	2005-09-18
US	34833363	R2Y6G6UTBXCBKC	0385493835	465807603	Appetite for Life: The Biography of Julia Child	Books	3	55	60	N	N	Not a masterful biography.	As a great American icon, Julia Child deserves a great biography, but if this book is any indication, she may have to write her own.  Although the book provides a lot of interesting detail, the author often fails to thread them into any cohesive fashion, and page after page is factoid upon factoid with no apparent organizing principle.  Also far too much time is spent tediously detailing the guest lists for dozens of Child dinner parties, making much of the book sound like one of those dreadful society columns filled with the names of party goers and their various social and educational connections.   This is what happens when an author, working off of the papers of her subject, is unable to rise above the reportage level to separate the wheat from the chaff.  <br />I'll give the author credit for doing a lot of research and providing an intimate glimpse at the Child marriage and the interesting figure of Paul Child himself.  It also does a good job of taking us through the painstaking 9-year process of writing and rewriting \\"Mastering the Art of French Cooking\\".   But as for a well-organized transcendant portrait of Julia herself, this one is missing the touch of a master.	2004-07-18
US	34833363	R3V3Y4FA0YT4EZ	0670894737	141542110	The Great Influenza: The Epic Story of the Deadliest Plague in History	Books	2	21	27	N	N	Great drama: deserves a better writer.	I was very much looking forward to this book, and now about 100 pages into it, I'm not sure I'll even finish it.  The influenza outbreak of 1918 is inherently a fascinating story, but it is unfortunate that this great and important drama was taken up by such a mediocre writer.  <br />Simply put, the author lacks the necessary skill to complement this story - and the publishing house failed to pair him with a competent editor.  The extensive opening dissertation on the development of modern medicine, for instance, could have been related in a cohesive and understandable fashion; instead Barry hops around tracing so many confusing threads that the reader is left baffled as to the real trajectory.  Much more annoying is his breathless style of writing and his habit of inserting his own melodramatic asides at every turn that it resembles a sophomore trying to impress you of the import of each development.  I was tempted to shout \\"I get it!  I don't need you to add swelling music to underscore every point.\\"  <br />Upshot:  the great influenza plague of 1918 makes a great story.  I wish a more skilled writer had been the one to tell it.	2004-05-23
US	34833363	R1XU1NU9GEEH57	0842332359	280076502	Glorious Appearing: The End of Days (Left Behind #12)	Books	5	10	25	N	N	Yea!  We win; they loose.	Glorius Appearing is great.  This is the book all us good Christians have been waiting for.  It's revenge time, revenge in the godly Christian sense; the good kind of revenge.  <BR>Remember all those people who made fun of our WWJD bracelets and True Love Waits rallies?  <BR>Remember all those kids in high school who laughed at our Christian music CDs?  They all get killed.   <BR>Remember all those people who didn't want prayer in public schools?    This is where Jesus slaughters them.  <BR>Remember all those people who refused to accept God's gift of truth and salvation?  This is where they are all punished for their sinful wickedness.  <BR>With the help of our loving god, we get to watch all those evil, bad, fornicating people crushed under the hand of justice.  Jesus kills them in all sorts of godly ways:  he slaughters, maims, decapitates, disembowels, crushes, burns, and makes them explode.   Millions upon millions of them: whole families, brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, even sheep and horses are slaughtered till the streets are filled with blood.  Animals are sinners, too, you know.  Reading about this carnage, you'll be touched by how much Jesus loves us.  <BR>I loved Glorious Appearing.  Praise Jesus.    <BR>Come quickly, Lord.  The world is evil and we pray for you to destroy it.	2004-04-30
US	34833363	R2IGPSK3LNLCAU	084235266X	401210290	Bringing Up Boys: Practical Advice and Encouragement for Those Shaping the Next Generation of Men	Books	1	144	261	N	N	Medically inaccurate and damaging.	I'm a pediatric physician who came by this book in a rather odd way. <BR>Before I say anymore, let me assure anyone who is reading that the theories espoused in this book regarding child development and human sexuality are frequently flat-out wrong, and in many cases actually dangerous and damaging.  In fact, do a simple Websearch on James Dobson - you will quickly see that he has been absent from the medical field for nearly 30 years and is not regarded as credible by any legitimate medical organization.  <br />After doing the annual medical check-up on a 15-year-old boy, I was pulled aside by his mother who expressed concern that her son was \\"suffering from gender-identity disorder.\\"  I really didn't know what she meant by this term, so after inquiring further it turns out that she was thought her son was gay.  Of course I informed her that gender indentity and sexual orientation were two different things - which seemed to surprise and confuse her.  After several minutes of explaining the difference,  I thought to ask her where she was getting her information and she cited Dobson and this particular book.   I assumed she had misinterpreted what she read; no informed physician would say such a thing.  But I decided to check the book out myself.  <br />Well, it turns out that this is exactly what she had been told by this `doctor'.  Odd for someone who claims to be a doctor, Dobson does not understand what any knowledgeable physician knows:  that gender identity is about which gender you identify with.  It has nothing to do with sexual orientation, which is about who you are attracted to and is an entirely separate issue.  Gays and lesbians are no more likely to be confused about their gender than heterosexuals are.  <br />Of course, that was just one of the many instances of ignorance - some of it truly astounding - that I came across in this book.  In my 12 years of practice, I have never seen or read anything that was so out-of-touch with current research and medical realities.  It was obvious to me that this book was not written by a real physician, but by a Falwell-type fundamentalist who put a \\"Dr.\\" in front of his name in order to pass his religious and political beliefs off as fact.  I am saddened that people like this boy's mother are actually lead to believe the discredited theories in this book; and I am concerned for the children who are subjected to this.	2004-04-11
US	34833363	RXQC612CDXJHF	0842373195	366724186	Let's Roll!: Ordinary People, Extraordinary Courage	Books	1	40	90	N	N	The Bible Thumper's Book of Platitudes.	I picked up this book in a dentist's waiting room .. and it nearly made me wish I was the one in the chair.  <BR>What could have been an interesting story about dealing with sudden loss was little more than the \\"inspiration-lite\\" stuff you'd find in a Family Circle article:  banal, one-dimensional, and written at about a 5th-grade level (I'm guessing the publishers accurately predicted the educational level of their born-again target audience).  No serious thought, no interesting insights.  A McBook for those who like their simplistic platitudes laced with ham-handed Christian proselytization.  <br />If Lisa Beamer is not a Bible-thumper without an original thought in her head, she sure did a great impersonation of one.  <br />About the only good thing I can say about \\"Let's Roll\\" is that it's as short as its title.     <BR>Unfortunately, it's about as thoughtful as the title too.	2004-04-11
US	34833363	R1K1XU73HQULVU	089051352X	338478877	Darwin's Demise	Books	1	18	36	N	N	Perfect for suckers.	This is the perfect book for gullible people who never understood earth science but are sure they're against it.<br />It's a religious tract written by fundamentalist Christians who think that their Bible is a history book and who apparently have never read anything other than Christian propaganda.<br />Look at how they misunderstand -- or completely misquote -- the actual professionals.  Look at how they fail to understand basic scientific principles such as stratiography or the concept of natural selection.<br />Basically, these two authors knew that there is a large population of religious folk who know nothing about science -- and will eagerly gobble up pseudo-science because they don't know any better.<br />Upshot:  this book is perfect for you if you're completely ignorant of science -- you'll never realize how off-base it is.<br />It's perfect for you if you hang around with other science-ignorant people -- they don't know enough to correct you.<br />But if you ever expect to carry on a conversation with a knowledgeable person, this book will guarantee that you'll get a response somewhere between hysterical laughter and a blank stare that says &quot;could anybody really be that dumb?&quot;	2004-03-18
US	34833363	R31HE479BNUYW4	1400031699	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	2	3	7	N	N	A grim chore to finish.	OK, whoever called this book a \\"page-turner\\" obviously had a very strong fan running nearby.  Or else, they simply (like I was tempted to do) flipped past whole chapters unread.  <br />How did we all get sucked into this?  Well, after The Secret History, this was the most anticipated novel in years.  The premise (the unsolved murder of a child) and the creepy ventriloquist's dummy on the jacket promised a taut Gothic thriller.  So did the first several pages, punctuated by the image of a 9-year-old boy found hanged with electrical cord from a backyard tree on a bright spring morning.  <BR>But that's it.  The story then descends into an aimless morass of baffling scenes described in a relentlessly breathless style.  Nobody walks or talks -- they darted, flew, shot, bolted, lunged, wailed, gasped, clawed, and they are endlessly \\"startled by\\" everything.  <br />Inexplicably, the entire middle swath of the book contains no reference to Robin's murder or the search for his killer. That's right:  the entire premise is forgotten for some 300 pages which are filled with irrelevant scenes included presumably for Tartt's self-amusement.  The Baptist youth camp - yeah, we know those religious freaks are wacko, but how is that relevant?  The romance between Allison and the lifeguard - goes nowhere.  The death of Aunt Libby, the firing of Hely's maid, the Adelaide-Sumner romance - all pointless and rendered in excruciating detail.    <br />I'm willing to forgive a weak structure if the characters and dialogue sparkle. <BR>I'll overlook stock characters if the plot is tight and properly paced.  <BR>But, outside the one interesting charcter of Gum (the only reason for 2 stars, instead of one), I can't think of much to recommend this book - it became a grim homework-like chore to return to it merely to say I actually finished the damn thing.	2004-02-15
US	34833363	R20MZ0MSVWEYBO	0842370889	269502799	The New Tolerance: How a cultural movement threatens to destroy you, your faith, and your children	Books	1	33	102	N	N	Hate is love.  Our god is truth.	McDowell is the sort of shallow thinker that would get laughed out of any sophomore debating class, and this book is solid proof.  Like all fundamentalists of whatever religion, he claims that his own god and his own religious and political beliefs are \\"The Truth\\" and everyone else's are false.  <br />And since all beliefs others than his are false, that makes them  EVIL.  <BR>All the GOOD people agree with him, and follow his god, and hate all the people he hates.  <BR>These EVIL people are not just EVIL, they're persecuting Christians.  <BR>If they don't embrace our religion, they are attacking us.<BR>If they ignore us, they are persecuting us. <BR>If they don't hate everybody that we hate, they are assaulting us.  <BR>If they don't think we deserve special privileges, they are persecuting us.  <BR> <BR>And because god is on our side, our god says we should destroy them because that's the loving thing to do.    <br />Don't you see?  <BR>Hate is love.  If you don't hate all the people we hate, you are being intolerant of us because it's our duty to hate people who don't agree with us.  That's how we show our Christian love.     <br />If you don't buy this nonsense, you're obviously not McDowell's target market.	2003-10-11
US	34833363	R2OBNPVSN2WOMI	0718003586	581806809	Revolve: The Complete New Testament	Books	5	13	32	N	N	a really kewl book for you life.	For your infomation, I'm a Christian teenage and I really relly love Jesus cuz I know Jesus will save from hell and i think this is really kewl (cool) cuz my youth pastor before sent this Bible to me which is not easy cuz the guards don't let him buy much stuff and even tho he knows i don't like books very much and it tells me not to be too smart cuz it could make boys get all intimadated and stuff and i need to be a godly helper and a good housewife cuz thats what Baby Jesus wants for my life. and so like all those other girls who think they're geniouses and stuff just read this bible for yourselve and see that you don't need to go to college you just need to get ready to be a good wife and mother cuz that's what God wants for you and learning to do makeup and stuff will help you get married and then have babies thats why you get married, you know, and why would you want to do anything else than what God says maybe you listen to the devil too much.	2003-10-11
US	34833363	R3FMS51UQS62AL	0718003586	581806809	Revolve: The Complete New Testament	Books	1	29	84	N	N	Fundamentalism can be trendy!	Ah, the poor fundamentalists.  Always 20 years behind the culture and trying soooo hard to be hip.  No wonder they ditched the Old Testament.  All that Biblical stuff about dashing babies against rocks and slaughtering whole tribes who believed in  different god - better pretend the whole OT doesn't exist, otherwise people might wonder why on earth you'd worship such a barbaric god.   <br />So they've written a new Bible that isn't so, you know, Bible-like.  <BR>It's, like, written in a style that, you know, teenage girls, like, can understand and stuff.  And it delivers the usual right-wing junk, gussied up to look trendy.  <br />In the next issue of Revolve:  <BR>- Animal sacrifices:  burn a goat for Jesus!  <BR>- Barefoot and pregnant - inspiring stories from Christian wives<BR>- Keep a hate journal.  Help Jesus send your enemies to hell!<BR>- Help!  I'm not submissive enough!<BR>- 10 tips for bombing an abortion clinic<BR>- Find fulfillment by being passive and mindless	2003-09-27
US	34833363	R3CI1F0236XEQS	0785268839	648927278	Wild at Heart: Discovering The Secret of a Man's Soul	Books	1	11	20	N	N	Shallow propaganda from a small man.	In the first of many unwitting ironies in this book, Eldredge proves himself to be, not the leader he fancies himself, but a johnny-come-lately follower obediently tracing the path set by others.  John Bly's \\"Iron John\\" did a much better job of the same subject -- but in the true wanna-be fashion of so many Christian faddists, Eldredge is a decade behind in delivering his version -- shallower, weaker -- aimed at the always-10-years-behind Christian community.  <br />From this starting point, Eldgredge proves himself to be a true propagandist, twisting facts to suit his premise and even issuing clearly ludicrous claims.  To wit, his assertion that \\"men ended slavery.\\" Malarkey, as any student of history knows. Men were the primary institutors and defenders of slavery (the same \\"manly\\" men that Eldredge gushes over), often using their Bibles to defend their right to own other human beings. The abolition movement, like all socially progressive movements, was heavily populated and driven by women -- a fact that Eldredge prefers to ignore in his belief that women are merely passive receptacles awaiting male leadership. The book is full of misinformation skewed to support Eldredge's biases.  <br />Eldredge's claim that women want only to wait for rescue makes you wonder -- has this guy ever met any women other than the apparently weak and passive Christian wives in his social circle?  Women have always been at the forefront of progress -- very different from the infantile destruction that certain males occupy themselves with. Look at the facts: males commit 96% of violent crime -- do we really need more \\"dangerous\\" and \\"wild\\" men following their testosterone-driven urges?  <br />Thanks, but we don't need any more of these types of men. Notice that it's often the little Napoleans (Eldredge is 5 feet, 135 lbs) yapping to prove their manhood through pointless macho exercises.   Secure men feel no such compulsion to solve problems with violence and secure men don't seek out weak women in order to make themselves feel manly.  Perhaps if Eldredge were a little taller (in stature and intellect), a little stronger, a little more honest, and a lot more secure, he'd realize that.	2003-08-16
US	34833363	R10O1JXV3UIBXJ	084230665X	413451786	Discipline with Love	Books	1	15	67	N	N	Great for raising frightened, docile children	The only \\"scriptures\\" Dobson seems to know are the Old Testament passages about violence and domination, full of stories about an angry, vengeful god and the primitive people who believed in such things as stoning to death misbehaving children.  No wonder Dobson never quotes Christ himself.  <br />If the only child-raising tools you think you need are a Bible and a leather belt, then this is the book that will tell you how to use them against your children.  <br />However, if you're interested in raising healthy confident children who respond to something more than fear, look elsewhere.	2003-05-25
US	34833363	R3032G44G0ZQBO	0393315606	569349859	Morality Play (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Roaring promise but weak conclusion.	Morality Play starts out with roaring promise as the curtain opens:  a fugitive monk stumbles into a traveling actors troupe in the woods of medieval England and is taken under their wing as the players make their way across the wintry countryside.  With the monk eagerly absorbing the tricks of the players trade as the group literally sings for their supper, the reader is transported through a 14th-century world of feudal loyalties, political intrigue and the desperation of peasants trying to survive against winter, famine, the Black plague and the injustices of ruling priests and knights.  But there's danger ahead - the group arrives in a small village in the aftermath of a child's murder, and finds itself with a role to play as the evidence is hastily buried.      <br />Up to this point the story is a rollicking good read, with interesting group dynamics as each troupe-member adopts their public and private roles, and a growing sense of dread as the players get deeper into dangerous waters.  Unsworth does a great job of making medieval England come alive - you smell the stench of corpses, you feel the itch of the horsehair costume, you fear the unpredictable rage of the peasantry.  But just when you're expecting a strong and satisfying conclusion, the story collapses.  It simply peters out.   A late-arriving character arrives at the end to explain it all and promise that everything will be OK.  It's like watching a murder mystery on stage where suddenly the curtain comes down and somebody you've never seen arrives on stage to tell the audience \\"the bad guy was arrested, the crime was solved, and you can go home now, and I have no idea what happened to the players left in the castle.\\"  Despite Unsworth's masterful depiction of time and place, Morality Play suffers from a disappointing ending for a story with so much promise.	2002-12-29
US	34833363	R1KHRA3SFBEIYU	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	1	8	12	N	N	Great for separating a fool and his money.	Has anyone actually read the Biblical story of Jabez?  Jabez  calls on the Hebrew god to make him rich, and -- lo and behold --the Hebrew god eagerly complies, helping Jabez to slaughter other tribes, steal their land, even hunt down and murder the fleeing survivors.  This is supposed to be a model of ethical behavior?<br />Of course, most of the Jabez crowd, with their infinite capacity to justify any atrocity committed by Christians against non-Christians, have no trouble eagerly nodding their heads at the murderous and criminal behavior on the part of a \\"man of God\\".  Why, Jabez is their hero and his prayer will get them out of the trailer park and into a new mansion in Beverly Hills.  A preacher told them so and it must be true - cuz it's in a book!<br />So, the only question is - does mumbling Jabez prayer have any effect?  The very god who fails to answer prayers to save the life of a child or to end numerous wars ... is this god going to suddenly start answering prayers so Billie Alabama can finally git hisself a new pickup truck or Betty Bible-banger can git her some of them press-on nails?<br />Nope.  The prayer of Jabez is exactly as useful as all other prayers --- which is to say, it has no affect at all.  None except for lining the wallets of authors who are just smart enough to know how dumb and gullible some people are.<br />But \\"The Prayer of Jabez\\" is not totally useless.  It's very efficient at separating a fool from his money.	2002-12-14
US	34833363	RDPTL1ML3HFM1	1576737330	808732835	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	1	12	15	N	N	Perfect for the unhappy, lazy and gullible.	\\"It will change your life!\\"  That's what the promoters of this book promise.   That should make you stop and think.  The only people who want to drastically change their life are those who are desperately unhappy with the life they have.  People who are happy with their lives - have satisfying jobs, good income, close friendships, healthy family relationships - are not so desperate to change everything.  Why is it that so many Christians find their lives so miserable that they're always seeking a wholescale overhaul?  Is it that Christianity tends to cause misery in people?   Or is it that people with depressing, miserable lives just naturally gravitate toward this  religion?   <br />Either way, Wilkinson has found his audience:  People who have miserable lives, are seeking a quick, easy way to overhaul it, and are naïve enough to believe that chanting prayers in a book will do the trick.  <BR>In other words, this book is only for those who fit the profile of being miserable, lazy, and gullible.	2002-12-14
US	34833363	R2QT16Z4CJ7TZK	0375758232	943705979	Paris to the Moon	Books	2	14	20	N	N	Stuck in a family slideshow.	Buying this book was like getting a dinner-party invitation from a friend who had just returned from an extended stay abroad in one of the world's most attractive cities.<br />But reading this book was like sitting in this friend's living-room, squirming with boredom and annoyance, as you're bombarded with family snapshots of his children, accompanied by an endless string of cute-kid stories. \\"And here's Junior learning to swim - the teacher says he's a natural. And here's Junior playing soccer - 'course Dad was a baseball player, you know. And here's Junior's little girlfriend - he's quite a hit with the ladies just like his old man.\\"<br />Groan. Yawn. Get me outta here. I wanted a book about Paris, and instead I got a Baby's First Years scrapbook, occasionally interrupted by a visit to a restaurant or a fashion show or some microscopic analysis of a croissant crumb that supposedly illuminates a great and profound truth about the difference between New Yorkers and Parisians. At the end of the day, Gopnik's vision is too blinkered and self-absorbed to be of much interest to anyone other than his immediate family (and maybe not even them). Despite having spent 5 years in Paris, Gopnik really should get out more.	2002-12-12
US	34833363	R18T0N3R1QE3ST	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A master of observation and analysis.	Forget trying to figure out what this book is \\"about\\".  Forget the silly attempts to outline the plot or analyze the characters.  In fact, drop all that stuff you learned in 8th-grade book-report class -- Delillo is the kind of writer that makes all these literary concepts passé.  Read this book for what it is - a hilarious, inventive work of fiction written by a master of observation and analysis.  <br />DeLillo's genius is in creating a world that is wholly familiar but at the same time completely alien. That's what make his riffs so compelling:  it's all stuff we've seen before, but he show it to us differently - clearer, vaguer, more skewed and more accurate.  Who hasn't witnessed one of those surreal diningroom table exercises where family members offer up factoids and data points, all of which are half-true products of misremembered newspaper articles and PBS specials.  DeLillo's take:  \\"The family is the cradle of the world's misinformation.\\"  <BR>Then there's the modern state of staying busy with shopping, pop-culture, tabloid promises of relief, absurd attempts at fame (is snake-sitter Orest Mercator the prototype for \\"Jackass\\" or what?).  Running throughout is a dark undercurrent:  the feeling that we are living under a vague, deadly and omnipresent threat that we can't quite identify -- all we know is that it involves some combination of government agencies, toxic chemicals and the media.  <br />Read this book once, twice, three times. You'll laugh out loud, throw the book across the room, shake your head in disbelief and wonder -- but you'll never forget you're reading the work of a true literary genius.	2002-12-10
US	34833363	RMHAOY4ZGQ6TK	0842373195	366724186	Let's Roll!: Ordinary People, Extraordinary Courage	Books	1	41	78	N	N	Is she really this shallow?	Is Lisa Beamer really as shallow and sermonizing as this book portrays?  Since I don't know her personally, I can't answer that question, but if you'd like to think of her as an appropriate icon of 9-11 grief, you should probably avoid this book.  Full of predictable clichs and `trust-in-Jesus' slogans, \\"Let's Roll\\" fits into the junk-food category of \\"literature\\": a lot of empty calories with little depth or insight.  Unless you're satisfied by a plateful of platitudes - and can stomach a lot of force-fed evangelizing-- look elsewhere.	2002-12-07
US	34833363	R17Q0VVV6BWV57	0842359249	200414863	The Strong-Willed Child	Books	1	32	59	N	N	A belt in one hand, a Bible in the other.	If anyone wonders why Dobson is virtually shunned by the entire medical and child development community, this book will answer your questions. <br />Comparing raising children to training dogs, Dobson relates with triumphant self-congratulation his battle against a small canine named Siggy (named after Sigmund Frued, a psychologist whom Dobson despises.  That should tell you plenty -- what sort of man names his own pet after someone he loathes?) .  This unfortunate animal is the subject of regular beatings from Dobson's belt, something Dobson relates with relish in the apparent belief that his readers will be impressed by a 200 lb man who belts 12-lb dogs into submission.<BR>  <BR>If you thought that was bad, wait till you see his recommendations for children.  They include beating 9-month-old babies with switches (not on the diaper, but on the bare skin of their small legs, so it really hurts) and pinching children in their necks.   No, I'm not making this up.  <br />Of course all this advice is delivered with the usual quotes from Christian bibles, justifying any and all acts of violence, even against very young children, along with Dobson's self-righteous rationalizations for his behavior.  It's easy to see why Dobson goes to such extremes in his quest to dominate children and turn them into engines of submission - it is his Christian calling to quelch any sign of independent will in children, because a broken and controlled child grows up into an unquestioning and obedient adult.  Dobson's religion has no use for strong-willed people who think independently - he only seeks passive and obedient Christian soldiers who will swallow anything put to them.  This explains his popularity among a uniquely uninformed and gullible populace who tune in for his right-wing Christian radio program (and pack opinion boards with 5-star ratings for his books).  <br />Be smart.  Read all the reviews and then figure out  which parenting style is likely to produce a healthy confident child - the Dobson-supporters who approach their children with a Bible in one hand and a belt in the other, or those who give this book low marks as a dangerous endorsement of religion-endorsed child abuse.	2002-11-25
US	34833363	R1WFEX1XAE12NI	0842305068	259845778	The New Dare to Discipline	Books	1	68	135	N	N	Eager endorsement of violence.	I'm not an anti-spanking crusader, but after reading Dobson's very eager endorsement of pro-spanking propaganda (anybody who can write 276 pages on recipes and justifications for hitting children - that should tell you something about their priorities), I concluded that this book was useful to only two types of people:<BR>a) Those looking for justification to hit children and who find the Bible to be all the justification they need.<BR>b) Those who don't believe that people like Dobson really still exist in a civilized society.  <br />The second group should read this book just to get an understanding of Christian fundamentalism and its preference for Old Testament style-violence over Christ's teachings.  Can one really imagine Jesus exhorting his followers to hit their children?  Of course not, that's why Dobson and his ilk never quote Jesus, and only quote Paul, Moses and the vengeful Hebrew god.   <br />The first group is no doubt Dobson's audience.  No one (other than Christian fundamentalists) takes this man seriously, given how out of touch he is with medical research or even with common sense.  For instance, Dobson claims that failure to spank is the cause of all society's ills.  But since most American parents already spank, he can't explain why America has much more violent crime than places like Japan or Scandinavia where spanking is much less common.   <br />It's also interesting that Dobson resorts to euphemisms for spanking and hitting children, never calling it what it really is, but finding tidy evasive terms like \\"discipline\\".   Maybe it sounds more acceptable than hitting (could he sell as many books with a title like \\"Dare to Hit your Kids\\"?) but a smart parent can see right through this scam and knows that discipline is quite possible without resorting to switches or belts or paddles.    <br />Perhaps most disturbing were Dobson's mixing of love and violence.  He recommends hugging and embracing children right after hitting them.  What a way to get a messed up kid - hit them and then tell them that's \\"love\\".  All you get is a kid who equates love with violence - a recipe for an emotionally stunted kid at least, a twisted masochist or sadist at worst.      <br />Sure, there are plenty of kids who were hit and slapped during their childhood and grew up to be healthy adults.  But, as Dobson fails to realize, they turned out well not because of this violence, but in spite of it.	2002-11-25
US	34833363	R2OCYQNCUNOEZ9	0385507836	109689582	Prisoners of Hope: The Story of Our Captivity and Freedom in Afghanistan	Books	1	20	49	N	N	Dangerous and mind-boggling naivete.	Since when is dumb, dangerous, arrogant and criminal behavior worthy of praise?  <BR>Apparently, only when this behavior is conducted by Christian evangelists peddling Jesus in foreign countries.  <br />Under the guise of \\"aid workers\\", Curry and Mercer went to Afghanistan to convert Muslims to their Christian religion.  Real humanitarians provide the necessities of life - food, shelter, medicine - without any religious strings attached.  Yet all Curry and Mercer could provide were copies of The Jesus Film and heartfelt sentiments about their relationship with Christ.  That doesn't qualify as aid in my book and it doesn't make them aid workers, it simply makes them evangelists looking for easy prey among a desperate and destitute people.  <br />Of course, since religious proselytizing was against the law in Afghanistan, Curry and Mercer simply lied about their real activities and motivations.  That not only makes them dishonest, it makes them criminals.  It also makes them a danger to others.  They put Afghanis in danger, they put real aid workers in danger, and since they required rescuing, they put the anti-Taliban forces who sprung them from prison at risk.  And, perhaps worst of all, they damaged the efforts of real humanitarians who, as a result of Curry and Mercer's dishonesty, are unjustly tainted by the evangelism brush.  <br />Yet despite the fact that they had broken the law and their own government was bombing the Taliban, Curry and Mercer were treated respectfully by the Taliban.  They were fed well, were protected during their captivity, and were allowed to conduct their religious practices freely (and, ironically, free of the very proselytization that they subjected Afghanis to).     <BR>The Taliban, despite their other crimes, comes off as being much more humane and sensible than these two dangerously naïve young women.  <br />One fact emerges clearly from this book:  Mercer and Curry went to Afghanistan to meet their own needs, not to meet the needsof Afghanis, who didn't invite them and whom they provided precious little aid to.  They went to satisfy their own evangelistic impulses, to gain brownie points with a god who demands evangelization, and to flirt with their own fantasies about martyrdom and self-sacrifice.  <BR>Engaged in the relentless Christian battle of \\"spiritual warfare\\" against non-Christians, Curry and Mercer were nothing more than enemy combatants in a foreign land.  Curry and Mercer are lucky that their captors showed them much more respect than these women showed anyone else.  <br />This book does a great - if unintended - job of showing just how dangerous, foolish and self-serving the actions and motivations of Curry and Mercer were.  It proves the point made by Charles Dickens over a hundred years ago:  \\"Missionaries are perfect nuisances and leave every place worse than they found it.\\"	2002-11-23
US	34833363	RO0AD2XSGJW7C	0842373195	366724186	Let's Roll!: Ordinary People, Extraordinary Courage	Books	1	52	98	N	N	Shallow  and packaged �inspiration�.	While some readers take issue with Lisa Beamer's professional widowhood, I personally have no problem with her writing or speaking about 9/11.  However, I found this book unsatisfactory for a number of reasons above and beyond its relentless preaching of Christianity.  <br />Namely, Beamer fails to undertake any serious examination of issues about tragedy and God.  One would expect that Beamer's experience - having just lost a spouse to a horrific death that left her children fatherless - would lead her to delve deeply into questions about religious faith and doubt. But instead of taking a deep look at how a loving god could passively stand by while thousands of innocents are incinerated and thousands of families are decimated, Beamer serves up simple-minded platitudes like \\"God is good\\", \\"God has a plan\\" (really?  What plan requires the violent death of thousands of people?), \\"it all works for the glory of God\\".   <br />Since Beamer's own husband is praised for his presumed role in fighting against the attacks, I have to wonder how Beamer can simultaneously praise her husband for his action and praise God for his inaction.  Ask yourself this:  If a human being who possessed complete power to stop a tragedy had stood by, hands in pockets, as thousands went to horrible deaths, what would we think of that person?  We'd call that person a monster.  Yet, when her god does the same thing, Beamer pronounces him loving.  <br />Such tidy and banal sentiments might be fine for children's Sunday School, and they might pass muster with the unthinking sheep-like devotion of Christian fundamentalists, but anyone who expected a more honest and critical look at tragedy and God will be sorely disappointed by Beamer's apparently blithe and blind faith.  <br />There are other examples of head-in-the-sand denials.  For instance, in the 40 or so minutes between the start of the hijacking and the crash of Flight 93, many passengers made final calls to their loved ones.  Beamer's husband, however, did not call his wife or children, but instead spent between 15 and 40 minutes (according to various reports) talking to a Verizon operator.  That a man, who by his own words knew he was about to die, chose to spend his last moments alive talking to a complete stranger instead of his family - that's gotta hurt.  But Lisa glosses it over, claiming that she was glad he did this.  I found such a claim unconvincing and further evidence that Beamer prefers chirpy, inspirational packaging over honest examinations of pain and grief.  <br />Maybe it's Beamer's way of protecting herself from hurt and doubt.  But it leaves the reader with the impression that she'd prefer to play the devoted Christian widow chanting \\"God is good, God is good\\"  instead of opening her eyes and ears to difficult and complex issues.	2002-11-15
US	34833363	R2FLTBNCNX4Y6I	0375758623	877647320	The Piano Shop on the Left Bank: Discovering a Forgotten Passion in a Paris Atelier	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Re-discovering what's important.	An enjoyable read even for a reader unfamiliar with pianos or playing music who gained a better understanding of both through the author's rediscovery of a long-lost joy.  I skipped a part or two that seemed to bog down - went back to them later - this is the kind of memoir that doesn't demand a linear read,  the vignettes can be picked up and savored anywhere along the way.  <BR>A small intimate story free of any attempt to impress, Piano Shop earns its keep for sincerity and the pleasure of accompanying the author on a meaningful search - and for the prodding it provides to anyone who has lost touch with what it means to learn and practice an art.  An added bonus are the refrains of French life caught from apartment windows, in music classes, in the ateliers of neighborhood shops.  <BR>All in all, a good book for those times when you feel the need to slow down and reconnect with simple pleasures.	2002-11-07
US	34833363	RGELS5WKBXLXY	0374173133	315724223	Housekeeping: A Novel	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Haunting and lucid masterpiece.	There are maybe nine books - out of thousands read as an English major and avid lifelong reader -- that I hold in true reverence and Housekeeeping is one of them.  As someone who usually consumes books at the rate of 2 a week, this book turned the tables: it consumed me and I've been haunted by it ever since.  <br />The language - exquisite and clear as crystal - is perfectly married to chronicling the interior worlds of loss and longing, rendered with such precision and depth that you recognize them as your own.  I'm not a sentimental person in the least, but I was unexpectedly moved to tears by the poignancy of passages which express, better than anywhere else in prose, the human search to be known and understood.   Like others, I also found myself reading slower and slower - not merely to postpone the inevitable, but because the writing is so densely beautiful that each sentence is worthy of marvel, so effortlessly poetic and precise as to be almost supernatural.  <br />I've watched and waited nearly 20 years for this author to produce another book, but perhaps this is one of those doubly rare occurances - a perfect novel written by someone who was destined to produce a singular work of transcendent beauty and truth.	2002-11-04
US	34833363	R1WVN2KUALLICG	0375758232	943705979	Paris to the Moon	Books	2	16	22	N	N	Insight marred by insularity.	Here's what this book is not. It's not a travelogue or Paris 101, so those seeking sightseeing tips or restaurant recommendations should look elsewhere. It's not as good as Janet Flanner and it's not as picaresque as Mayle (glad for that), but it does a competent and often entertaining job of going one level deeper into daily Parisian life - a level probably best appreciated by those familiar with Paris but aware that annual holidays are different from resident living. It's at its best when Gopnik applies his considerable skills of observation to pull out an analytical insights (French coverage of \\"Diana Spencer\\" - pointedly not \\"beloved Princess Diana\\" as the rest of the world knows her -- illuminates their disdain for the British.) <br />But there are liabilities here. The author prattles on far too long about his children (why do parents harbor the illusion that the rest of us find their offspring as endlessly fascinating as they do?) who, with their absurdly affected names like Luke Auden and Olivia Esme, rapidly became a grating annoyance to this reader. <BR>Gopnik's analytics can multiply to the point they become granular and forced. And there are disappointments in what Gopnick chooses to focuses on (on the massive topic of French fashion, the best Gopnick can do is to center his essay on leering male photographers begging runway models for more skin?) and what he fails to address. One of my disappointments, as a regular Paris visitor, was that Gopnik never applied his keen eye to the profound differences between the American and French approaches to healthcare. Even a first-time visitor to Paris wonders about those green-cross pharmacies on every block -a comparison of the slash-and-drug American approach with the minimalist, homeopathic French way would been a motherlode of interest, but Gopnik instead devotes pages to, say, another tired Barney compliant. <br />All in all, Paris to the Moon came off as a sometimes incisive but frequently self-absorbed andsmug chronicle of a man who should have realized that most of us regard Paris and Parisians as more interesting than Adam Gopnik and his son.	2002-11-03
US	34833363	R3F6CH03LX62Y	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The best effort by one of our most skilled novelists.	Simply one of the 10 best novels of the last decade.  <BR>While I liked but did not love 'Accordian Crimes' and 'Postcards', 'The Shipping News' stands out as the finest effort of one of our best novelists.  The story of a perpetual loser who finally finds his place in the world (in one of the continent's least hospitable places), the novel is at its best when it places the reader upon the desolate rockfaces of Newfoundland, a region that tends to kill the human spirit when it's not putting them in an early grave.   With the spectre of being drowned, frozen to death, or sucked under by doomed legacy of his own ancestors, Quoyle struggles mightily to anchor himself and his family in an environment that is alternately threatening and welcoming and, above all, gives him a chance to start over.  The characters are solid and memorable, the plot is well-structured, and the writing sharp and often startling in its precision and poetry.   The dialogue is a joy to read, particularly the completely unsentimental characterization of two children as they respond to adult-sized tragedies and joys.   <br />Particularly impressive is the way Proulx is able to so economically sketch a place or time or character in a way that hints at greater depths and scopes (the political and economic complexities of the Newfoundland oil and fishing industries, the gossipy confines of small offices and family-run businesses, the spontaneous adventures of a far-away couple that Quoyle barely knows).  One particular scene is truly stunning and emblematic of Proulx's skill (spoiler warning) - a going-away party that slowly morphs into an orgy of destruction. Here, Proulx portrays a senseless act that is unpredictable and shocking, yet consistent with the desperation of a remote outpost to maintain human contact as it simultaneously destroys the thing it loves.  Like the book itself, this scene follows the theme of destruction and regeneration in surprising and unforeseen ways.	2002-11-02
US	34833363	RW18CMO7WUKEF	0786866039	643495278	The Grand Complication: A Novel	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Gimmicky and sophomoric.	Like so many other readers, I really wanted to like this book.  Before even cracking the pages, I was enamored with the concept of a mystery involving the arcane worlds of collectors, horologists, bibliophiles and reference librarians.  It sounded so promising.  <BR>But I finished the first chapter in a state of mild disbelief thinking \\"surely, this has got to get better.\\"  By the middle of the book, I had abandoned all hope except for the singular goal of plodding through to the finish line without breaking my record of never leaving a book unfinished.  Sad to say, that is the only reason I followed this uninteresting and gimmicky story through to the end.  <br />Others have outlined the plot, which on paper sounds intriguing but in execution turned out to be unbelievable and tiresome.  Not that the book was completely without merit - the bowels of the New York public library are interesting, there's a humorous (if predictable) Dewey-Decimal competition, and you get a glimpse into the netherworld of libraries and librarians.  But despite the few bright lights, the book labors under the writing style and characterization.  <BR>Kurzweil's prose here could best be described as \\"precious\\" - the sort of tidy, circular writing and plot machinations (cutesy, artificial and over-orchestrated) that distinguish lesser works.  <BR>The character of Jesson is supposed to be an educated and erudite man, but he comes off as a parody - it was like reading a sophomore's checklist of what he thinks an erudite, wealthy man sounds like:  \\"let's see, he's gotta wear a cravat, he's gotta say 'Splendid' and 'Precisely' a lot and, oh yeah, rich  guys always refer to their mother not as 'my mother', but \\"Mother didn't approve of this, and Mother had a penchant for that.\\"<BR>The character of Nic (Short's wife) is as two-dimensional as her paper pop-ups; little more than a static collection of French phrases, seduction techniques, and thrown objects.   <BR>In  other words, the books expectsus to accept a lot of gimmicks, ticks and mannerisms in place of actual characterization.  <BR>The dialogue is not much better, rooted as it is in cartoonish characters who test the reader's patience for puns, puns on puns, gratuitous arcane references, and so many book-related metaphors (sample: \\"for three years, Nic and I were two acid-free volumes bound together as one\\") that you'd suspect the author was being paid by the metaphor.   <br />Frankly, The Grand Complication reminded this reader of the effort of a FictionWriting 101 student eager to convince you of his own cleverness ... and losing sight of the story in the process.	2002-09-15
US	34833363	R1XHOVIN44QZCB	0786866039	643495278	The Grand Complication: A Novel	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Gimmicky and sophomoric.	Like so many other readers, I really wanted to like this book.  Before even cracking the pages, I was enamored with the concept of a mystery involving the arcane worlds of collectors, horologists, bibliophiles and reference librarians.  It sounded so promising.  <BR>But I finished the first chapter in a state of mild disbelief thinking \\"surely, this has got to get better.\\"  By the middle of the book, I had abandoned all hope except for the singular goal of plodding through to the finish line without breaking my record of never leaving a book unfinished.  Sad to say, that is the only reason I followed this uninteresting and gimmicky story through to the end.  <br />Others have outlined the plot, which on paper sounds intriguing but in execution turned out to be unbelievable and just plain tiresome.  Not that the book was completely without merit - the bowels of the New York public library are interesting, there's a humorous (if predictable) Dewey-Decimal competition, and you get a glimpse into the netherworld of libraries and librarians.  But despite the few bright lights, the book is suffocated by the writing style and characterization.  <BR>Kurzweil's prose here could only be described as \\"precious\\" - the sort of tidy, circular, see-how-clever-I-am writing and plot machinations (cutesy, artificial and way over-orchestrated) that mark an author as green and unsure.  <BR>The character of Jesson is supposedly an educated and erudite man, but he comes off as a parody of same - it was like reading a sophomore's checklist of what he thinks an erudite, wealthy man sounds like:  \\"let's see, he's gotta wear a cravat, he's gotta say 'Splendid' and 'Precisely' a lot, and, oh, yeah, rich  guys always refer to their mother not as 'my mother', but \\"Mother didn't approve of this, and Mother had a penchant for that.\\"<BR>The character of Nic (Short's wife) is as two-dimensional as her paper pop-ups; little more than a static collection of French phrases, seduction techniques, and thrown objects.   <BR>In  other words, we're supposed to accept a lot of gimmicks, ticks and mannerisms in place of actual characterization.  <BR>The dialogue is not much better, rooted as it is in cartoonish characters who test the reader's patience for puns, puns on puns, gratuitous arcane references, and so many book-related metaphors (sample: \\"for three years, Nic and I were two acid-free volumes bound together as one\\") that you'd suspect the author was being paid by the metaphor...	2002-09-15
