US	34844779	R28ZPBDGZKNQW0	1843605716	79895895	Mistress of Table Rock	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Kir Devon<br />Scott lost everything in the 9/11 attacks. His family has been dead for five years now, and he works diving in lakes. He quit his job after he lost his family.<br />He takes an assignment at Table Rock, which is a military base, and meets Aleecia. Aleecia is special and has powers far beyond any normal human being. These special powers save him when he gets in trouble on a dive.<br />Their attraction leads to them being the target of troubles and danger. As they grow closer, they start to take on some top secret assignments and fall in love. Can they keep their attraction and work apart?<br />This book tried to do too much. It was a fine paranormal romantica, but took off in a new direction when a government thriller started. This would have been much better served as its own plot.	2004-03-08
US	34844779	R1G5V95TDE5887	037369167X	756796120	Pillow Talk	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by J.P. Sydney<br />Jessica Barnes doesn't want a man in her life. She wants to be promoted to Vice-President at Hard-Wire Networks, the computer networking equipment manufacturer where she works. Then she wants a Porsche. Simple goals.<br />But Adam Taylor stands in her way. Gorgeous and sexy, he also happens to be a consultant brought in by an international computer conglomerate. An \\"operational efficiency expert,\\" he's probably going to cost her her job, and her Porsche.<br />Their attraction is instant, but Jessica holds out. Why would she involve herself with the man who holds her future in his hands? But Adam doesn't give up, and he wants Jessica. So one very smart move later, Adam and Jessica are on a date and the heat between them reaches explosive levels. But Jessica isn't quite willing to give in. They turn the sparks between them into a game. Jessica gives Adam ten days to seduce her. Foreplay is allowed, but no full penetration.<br />And so the very hot games begin. The pages singe your fingers as Adam and Jessica tempt each other in every way imaginable. But as they play their dangerous game, they begin to truly care about each other. Real life gets in the way though, and Adam is still an enemy to her career. How can Jessica balance out her feelings for Adam, when she might not have a job when their games are over?<br />Kathleen O' Reilly has written a hot, arousing book. Adam and Jessica titillate and tantalize and when they finally come together, their joining is full of love and desire. The growth of their relationship is exciting to watch, as they become friends and lovers. Watching them deal with their opposing careers, and what they'll do for each other to make things work, is both heart-wrenching and heartwarming. I look forward to reading the rest of the Bachelorette Pact series and watching Jessica's friends meet their match.	2004-03-08
US	34844779	RYM1H0W6OBYKQ	1891020560	119766381	The Raven's Lady	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Sam<br />Eibhlin Fitzgerald is a chemist doing research on Irish plants with healing abilities. During her research in Kincora she falls through a time portal - faerie magic as it later turns out - and travels over a thousand years back in time. She ends up in the midst of a seething family feud. Sixteen year old Caoimhe was hoping to marry the ruggedly handsome Brandubh, son of the clan leader and kin to the Irish high king Brian Boru. Brandubh refuses to marry her and in desperation Caoimhe commits suicide. Eibhlin finds herself in gravest peril, for it was after seeing a vision of her Brandubh refused to marry Caoimhe. Eibhlin is drawn towards Brandubh but is determined to return back to her own time and age. And then danger strikes. Eibhlin finds herself in the midst of deadly plots and gruesome revenge. The foe is relentless but Brandubh is equally determined to keep Eibhlin alive and by his side forever.<br />This book starts off very good. The descriptions of Ireland anno 1013 are detailed and show that the author has done an immense amount of research. The information about the culture and traditions of old Ireland is woven seamlessly in the story - a laudable feat in itself. Many authors inadvertently go in to lecture-mode when writing historicals, but Ms. Manning avoids this trap with aplomb. My quarrel with the book comes at the second half, where I found that the book dragged. Eibhlin is threatened by the villain and rescued by Barndubh one time too many for it to be believable. And then suddenly sensible Eibhlin who I had been applauding for having her head at the right place, decides to become missish and rejects Barndubh because he killed in order to defend her. The entire book fell flat on its face right then, which is a pity, because it showed great potential at the beginning. A bit more work on the second half of the book, and it would have become a keeper.	2004-03-04
US	34844779	R30ZVNTA0QOKGU	1843605228	586540755	Enchained	Books	4	29	31	N	N	4 star review	From Timeless Tales reviewer Meri Mccombs<BR>Enchained is a three author anthology from Ellora's Cave.  Though each story is different they are linked together by the overall theme of dominance and submission. <br />We begin with Ann Jacobs tale, &quot;Mastered&quot;, about a prosecuting attorney and a homicide detective.  Loosely connected to her &quot;Lawyers in Love&quot; series, Mastered is the story of a woman seeking a new master, a man who can make her find the full depth and breadth of her passion, and the man who reawakens all those desires.  It's the tale of unexpected, yet fulfilling love. <br />Next up, &quot;Choice of Masters&quot; by Joey Hill, a fantasy tale of a woman cursed to never feel pleasure and the man who frees her.  This tale focuses on the mental and spiritual, on how true trust can liberate.  It is also the only tale in the anthology not connected to series. <br />Lastly, is Jaid Black's &quot;Death Row: The Mastering&quot;.  This is futuristic fantasy tale.   A widow on her way to earth to visit her daughter is kidnapped by a devolved man.  This man dominating her body and her will until all she wants is to please him, much to her confusion.   <br />While I greatly enjoyed all three stories, I have to admit to not being able to fully appreciate the nuances of Jaid's tale.  Not having read the Death Row serial, I was lost on some of the customs that she mentioned only in passing as if the reader was expected to already know everything.  Other than that single drawback, I loved the stories, especially Joey Hill's.  This anthology is a good introduction to each author's style as well as an entertaining read.	2004-03-04
US	34844779	R19G7KS9QTTDTH	1592798837	593279648	The House Of Pendragon, Book I: The Firebrand	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Chere<br />THE HOUSE OF PENDRAGON: FIREBRAND begins right after the battle of Camlann. Both Arthur and Modred are dead. Lin, Arthur's daughter, has no idea what she is going to do now, with both her father and her half-brother dead. There are only five Knights of the Round Table left; her, Bedwyr, Cai, Gaheris and Lancelot. Lin has her father's ring. He wanted her to take over the kingdom after his death. She knows, with Arthur's death, there no longer is a kingdom, so Lin decides to go into exile. Her foster brother, Dafydd, and Gaheris go with her.<br />Lin eventually marries Gaheris and they have children, with another on the way. Her firstborn was a boy and they named him Arthur, but call him Bear. Their journey has now come full circle and Lin and her brood are at Camelot, which is now deserted. Dafydd and Gaheris entertain the girls while Lin and Bear enter Camelot. Lin has decided it's time to tell her son about his forefathers.<br />She starts the tale with the death of her mother, a slave belonging to Queen Morgause. One cold night, she died while the slaves were sleeping. The next morning, the overseer had her body removed and set Dafydd and Lin to working. One of Lin's duties was to slop the pigs, which she really didn't mind doing as she could watch the Princes of Orkney practice on the training field. Lin always felt sorry for the youngest of Queen Morgause's brood, Prince Modred. His older brothers always picked on him. On one such trip to the pigs, she heard a yelling and screaming from the privy. There was a board lodged under the door to prevent it from being opened from the inside and Prince Modred was screaming to be let loose. Lin managed to get the door open and Modred immediately began taking out his rage and anger on her. After all, she was only a slave.  <br />And so it began, the conflict between Modred and Lin. The more Modred tried to beat Lin into submission, the more Lin resisted.<br />THE HOUSE OF PENDRAGON:  FIREBRAND is a very unique look at Arthurian legend. This story by Debra A. Kemp is the first I have read wherein Arthur and his queen have a daughter. It's also a very realistic look at the inhumanity of slavery and how life really was for a slave back in Arthur's time period. It's also an amazing look at the courage and conviction of one young girl and how she refuses to submit to being a slave. It was a brutal time period on Orkney. I was taken back to the time of Arthur from the very beginning of the story. The characters all fit with Arthurian legend. This is not a light, or a very easy read, but it is one I cannot recommend highly enough. I can't wait for the next installment in THE HOUSE OF PENDRAGON.	2004-03-04
US	34844779	R25GNB2TM574Y1	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	4.5 star review!	From Timeless Tales reviewer J.P. Sydney<br />Betsy Taylor had died. Or maybe that would be undied because she's now one of the undead, a vampire with a craving for blood and her Manolo Blahniks. <br />Betsy doesn't know how she's become one of the undead. She knows how she died-being hit by a car at 40 mph and thrown into a tree can do that to a girl. But no matter what she does to herself, she can't stay dead. Stabbing, drowning, drinking bleach and electrocution and the only thing that suffers is her hairdo. So what's an undead girl to do? She becomes an unwilling hero, using her strength and new powers to save a mother and daughter from three men intent on harm. <br />But that's only the beginnings of her problems...or would that be heroics? Suddenly Betsy's a pawn in a battle for power in the underworld. It's the last thing she wants though. She'd prefer to live her undeath in peace, and not get involved in underworld politics. But one of the vampires won't listen, putting her friends and family in danger to get her attention. <br />The other annoying vampire vying for her attention is Sinclair, a hunky, good-looking, arrogant undead who knows more about Betsy's abilities and future than she does. <br />Undead And Unwed is the first book in Ms. Davidson's Undead trilogy. If you enjoy laugh out loud, tears streaking down your cheeks, sides hurting reads, you're going to love this book. Don't read this book expecting a deep, emotional romance. It isn't. But it's still a lot of fun. <br />MaryJanice Davidson is quickly making a name for herself for her witty heroines, fast-paced dialogue, and stories with a high giggle factor. Having read the original version of Undead And Unwed from Ellora's Cave, I'm pleased to say I love this version even more. The story was expanded which was a huge benefit. I enjoyed the secondary characters more, the story was better developed, and it made me even more excited to read the rest in the series.	2004-03-03
US	34844779	R108TGNX7KLQYJ	1592799124	716989050	Black Day	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Stars Review	by M. Freeman<br />Thousands of years ago, a dark and twisted cult existed known as &quot;The Black Day&quot;. A sinister group whose sole purpose was to resurrect their banished lord from the abyss in order to bring about his fearsome dominion over all. A gift was bestowed upon these dreadful followers of a sentient text meant to lead them to their desired goal. Before this could be accomplished, Haziem, bent on revenge for the murder of his father, stole the text and killed the shadowed priest reading aloud from it. For this, Haziem was condemned to a life of immortality, never to die except at the hands of the Black Day. He wandered the desert for decades desperately trying to destroy the book, to no avail. Finally, he established a link of protectors for the text, to keep it from the hands of the &quot;Black Day&quot; or worse, from the twisted creation called The Dark Rider, who ceaselessly pursues and searches for this unholy object.<BR> <BR>Through the next few millennia the text is passed from one protector to the next. Destruction, pain, and terror are its legacy and all that touch it are not exempt. Futile attempts are made to destroy the Dark Rider but, like Haziem, he is immortal. His sole purpose is to obtain the stolen object. Finally it reaches the hands of its protector in the twenty-first century, Jeremy Maxwell, a spoiled wealthy young man.<BR>  <BR>Jeremy has no idea that this great burden and grave duty will fall upon his unsuspecting shoulders. Soon, his own dark past reaches out to him, catapulting him into a fight for his life and that of the known world. An ally he did not know exists will assist him, but even so, it may not be enough to stop the destruction of all he holds dear.<BR> <BR>This is a sharply twisted tale of darkness, fanaticism, and hopelessness.  Brian Knight weaves a compelling story, drawing you into the lives of those involved willingly or unwillingly with the Black Day cult and its lost artifact. This story is not for the faint of heart. The scenes are sharp with graphically violent descriptions. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys the horror genre, but urge younger readers to avoid this. I would read more of this author, but definitely would keep the light on at night!	2004-02-28
US	34844779	R2QFXNSTN9X6AE	097118822X	252097469	A Call to Magic	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Maria Desrosiers<br />Everything in Shaelyn McBride's life changed with the death of her aunt. She'd worked hard all her life and she didn't want to leave her home in the United States. But unseen forces took control of her body, wild sensations and heated dreams consumed her for a faceless man. Forces push her to sell her house, to create a new life in Ireland, on the land bequeathed to her by her aunt. <BR> <BR>With dreams of building a bed and breakfast, Shaelyn travels to Ireland. From the moment she sees Donal Finnerty, asleep in her aunt's cottage, fireworks ignite between the two. The faceless man now has a face and all he wants from Shaelyn is the land his family sold her aunt years ago when they were in financial trouble. Shaelyn had inherited more than the cottage; she inherited a legacy of witchcraft and a responsibility to serve people with it.  <BR> <BR>All Donal Finnerty wants from the lovely clover witch is for her to find a cure for the spell her aunt cast on them, and for her to sell him back the land that had been in his family for generations. He decides to do whatever was in his power to prevent Shaelyn from building her bed and breakfast. He didn't want the rush of emotions that stirs in his heart, emotions he never wanted to feel again. Donal fights his growing feelings for her, blaming them on the magical spell cast on him. <BR> <BR>A Call To Magic is well written and an enjoyable romance. Lee Emory's character's come to life from the very first page. I felt like I was in Ireland with Shaelyn. The descriptions were vivid. The plot was fun and kept you wanting to read what happens next. A must read romance for those who like a touch of magic.	2004-02-28
US	34844779	R3R0MWUZ7GBDZC	1931742766	420216969	Between Earth and Eternity	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Patricia McGrew<br />Sally Ann thought if she waited long enough, Rich would finally love her back, but time ran out when she died of complications from the HIV virus. Upon reaching heaven, she pleaded with the angels to be Rich's guardian angel. Guarding Rick becomes her whole existence. She is content to just stare at him as he sleeps. She does everything in her power to keep him safe, even to the point of almost smothering him with care. <br />Rich is in construction and his latest project resides next to a cemetery. Within a few days, his crew is complaining about noises and the next thing he knows they have quit. So his partner hires Alex. She is a woman who knows her job. The fact that she is beautiful doesn't hurt either. It doesn't take long for their attraction to each other grows. He likes the way she is not afraid of anything. <br />John has been an angel for a long time. His main duty is watch over Sally and make sure that she doesn't cross the line with Rick, as she has before. He had once attained the highest level of angelhood, only to interfere with a death that was destined to happen. John has been told that Sally was the chosen one. She has the power to banish evil, none of which Sally knows. He has to keep her out of trouble until the time is right. <br />Before long Sally senses the evil that seems to be coming from the graveyard. Why were they going after her Rick? Why couldn't he see them for himself? Both John and Sally can see the dark looking man, but it's only Sally that can see all the hooded figures that follow in his wake. The two have to work together to find the answers to stop the evil. <br />Between Earth and Eternity is a great story that deals with good and evil and the battle between the two. You get two romances, angels, ghosts, laughter and a mystery, plus a great story. This is different look at angels. I hope I have a John or Sally watching over me.	2004-02-28
US	34844779	R2DBY9KO09S73D	1592799620	742136890	Moonlight Legacy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless  Tales 5 Star Review	by Patricia McGrew<br />Miranda State is excited; tomorrow she is marrying her sweetheart. The next thing she knows, she is doubled up on the floor in intense pain. If only she can call Hadden, as a doctor he would make the pain go away. But before she can get to the phone, she passes out. When she awakens, she finds out about her family legacy that now possesses her body. <br />Hadden McNeal is waiting at the church for his bride when he gets the news from Miranda's grandmother. As he reads the note, he can't believe it; she says she doesn't love him anymore and doesn't want to see him again. It's only later he finds out the truth. His love turns into a werewolf when the moon rises. Hadden is a skeptic; he doesn't believe in <BR>the paranormal, but now he has to face the truth to save his love. <br />Purebred werewolf Drake Guignard has come for Miranda. Years ago, her mom had been promised to his pack. Rather that marry someone she didn't love, she left home. Now Drake is here to claim her daughter as his bride. The more Drake pushes Miranda, the more she is afraid of his wanton killing of humans. Her fear of becoming like him keeps her from killing anything. <br />Hadden, with his best friend Steve, does everything in their power to stop Drake from getting Miranda. Is there something that will stop the transforming? Can love win in the end? <br />Moonlight Legacy is a great werewolf romance where you will love all the characters. The characters are realistic and totally believable. I loved the way Miranda fought the bloodlust, to try to remain human. She had a real heart and it belonged to Hadden. Hadden was great too, because he would risk everything, even his life, to save his love. Ms Dartt has written a great paranormal romance that no one should miss.	2004-02-28
US	34844779	RYCBYLHHJOB0I	1592799140	685794602	Horses by Email	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Kir Devon<br />Karen is an ardent lover of horses, who would dearly love to have one. Unfortunately, her parents cannot let her have one. Karen is upset by this, but she channels her energy into learning more about the animals. <br />One day, Karen spies a personal ad in a horse magazine that leads her to English horsewoman Melaina. She is intrigued and writes back, discovering a new 'key pal' in the process. Melaina owns two horses and is fascinating to Karen.<br />As time passes, both teens establish a tight friendship through the Internet. In over two years, Karen finds her life intertwined with her new English friend and discovers some dreams along the way.<br />Horses by Email is an intriguing novel of the horse culture and Internet friendships. While I found the book to be a little too focused on the horses and not enough on the characters, I found the unconventional friendship to be heartwarming.	2004-02-07
US	34844779	R3VD46LVGXE7C2	0352329424	9364364	The Hundredfold Problem	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales 3 Star Review	by Kassandra Washington<br />THE HUNDREDFOLD PROBLEM by John Grant is an interesting science fiction novel that begins millions of years in the past. Electronic sentient beings search the universe for intelligent and organic life worthy of their assistance in climbing the evolutionary ladder. On one such planet, the leader of these beings, called Persons, choses a child to be re-planted in an artificially created world, granted immortality and set up as the deity of her people. She is named after the Persons leader, LoChi.<BR> <BR>The novel then fast-forwards to the future, where a scantily clad woman, bearing a very big gun called the Multigob, is sent to the world named the Donut; a name coined by the Terries, no less. Her name is Petula McTavish and she's sent to investigate the sudden change in stability of the Donut. Her employers are concerned that any instability may result in financial loses to their interests. The instability seems to involve the introduction of two other religious factions into a native society of Skysouls that previously only worshipped the Girl-Child LoChi. <BR> <BR>Then there is evidence that there's a gangster type, Dennis the Complete Bloody Sadist, attempting to gain control. If that's not enough problems, when Petula's partner, the muscle backup, is transported to the planet, he ends up in exactly one hundred pieces, literally! Now McTavish has to round up these hundred killing machines and reintegrate them back into one Knuckle. Without Knuckle, Petula doesn't have a chance of stabilizing the Donut.<BR> <BR>THE HUNDREDFOLD PROBLEM provides amusing entertainment. However, the jargon, reminiscent of gangster style of talking, is heavy at times and a little confusing, if not disconcerting. Otherwise the plot is a completely different approach to a science fiction novel. The author successfully focuses on the interaction between two societies in which one considers the other subhuman and man's inhumanity to his neighbors. The fastpacednovel that brandishes outrageous dangers around every corner will keep the reader wondering what could possibly happen next.	2004-02-05
US	34844779	R2NOIJHL5LJEF6	1592799736	2055513	Tangled Hearts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4  Star Review	by Brenda Edde<br />In the small town of Heart Colorado there is new boy at Heart High, and rumors are flying fast and furious. Dillon is said to be a trouble-maker at the very least and at worst a criminal who has already done time according to those in the `know'. Carrie, the high school yearbook editor, has more important things to worry about. Her deadlines are looming large on the horizon and critical artwork promised her has been found in a departed students locker ruined by a can of soda! Dillon has offered to help, but Becky, her best friend, is telling her that she shouldn't rely on the 'criminal' for anything. Carrie doesn't know whether the rumors surrounding Dillon are true or not, but if she can meet her deadlines she's willing to take a chance on him. Dillon isn't making it easy however, he has the 'bad-boy' routine down pat. As Carrie looks into his dual-colored eyes her intuition tells her that it just might be an act, or is it her heart trying to confuse her? Just to make Carrie's life more hectic, she's worried about her long-time friend Tina, and some really bizarre stuff is happening at school. Tina has been gone from school for weeks and won't talk to her. There are the missing advertising files and if Dillon would open up she might get some answers but trust is an issue and he's been taught that trusting anyone is not a good idea. Can Carrie help her friend Tina, will Dillon open up, will the yearbook get done in time. These are the questions that you need to read Tangled Hearts to find out.<br />Tangled Hearts is a fast moving, well-written story that brought back my memories of high school in a vivid rush. The clicks, the problems involved in being accepted and/or being true to yourself. Not only does Ms. Story tell a story of the difficulties a new kid in school has to face, she tells a compelling story about the foster-care system. The reality of that difficult time in our lives was told in such a manner to appeal to a wide age range. Teenagers will be impressed that Ms Story has done a wonderful job of relating the day to day struggle to find a balancing act between old friendships and new. As an adult, I was impressed with the difficult issues she touched on: from getting in touch with the real you, to the possibilities of date rape, the drug problems rampant in our schools, as well as the degrading situation of a battered young girl. This is the first of Ms. Story's books that I have read, I would suggest on the basis of this book that parents read her books to remember the difficulties of high school life and then hand them to their teenagers to read. They will not only enjoy them, but will hopefully learn from them as well.	2004-02-05
US	34844779	RGPEEMQCROQUG	190422461X	522783922	Ring of Stone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by M. Freeman<br />Set in England, seven young idealistic people stumble across one another at a local historical landmark known as the Ring of Stones. It is cold and dark and a few of them had been drinking. Their goal was to protest the poll tax about to be levied. Suddenly, they find themselves flung back in time to the year 1379. Confused and disoriented, they are found by the vicious and sociopathic Sir Gerald, brother to the local Lord, Sir Harold. With great pleasure, he selects one of the group and has him horrifically impaled as an example to others not to trespass. The others are brought to the castle for judgment.  <BR> <BR>The sergeant at arms, Martin, takes pity on them and attempts to help them. He manages to obtain an audience for this grief-stricken group. Before they are presented at the audience, the six remaining time-travelers share their pasts and skills amongst each other, determining what may be helpful. Rick-the scholar, with a photographic memory and extensive knowledge about this time, Malcolm-a fifth year medical student, Chris-Rick's cousin, there only because he followed him out of the house that night, Arthur and Dennis-home grown terrorists trained in urban warfare and rabble rousing as well as carpentry, and Jo-whose brother Pete was the one murdered and a master at judo.  <BR> <BR>At the audience, Sir Harold takes a guarded liking to the group and grudgingly adds them to his household. The group proves to be an asset but with disturbing beliefs. Arthur, Dennis, and Malcolm despise the disparity between the classes and have a decidedly vociferous socialistic view. Surprisingly, they are somewhat tolerated by their benefactor and protected by Rick with his quick thinking and communication skills. Even when Jo reveals that she is a woman, this is all taken in stride.  <BR> <BR>This is a brutal time with unrest building because a peasant revolt is about to occur. Sir Gerald is trying actively to oust his brother and take over his holdings. He holds no liking for this odd group found at the stones. As this lost group struggles to stay together, they are faced with adjustments and life changes even as events are building that could destroy them all. <BR> <BR>This story has an interesting potential. The information on how life is lived in the medieval past is intriguing, but the abrupt graphic depiction of the impalement is shocking and gruesome. It comes on early in the book, a violent scene that would have been better to occur later on due to its gory imagery. The story itself is slow, with redundant conversation.  For example, when Jo reveals she is a woman, the reader is dragged along while the character tells it in detail to everyone in their group. Plus, the socialistic rhetoric spouted by the characters is tolerated in a time when sentiments like that could get you killed. It added a sense of unrealism and disbelief to the story. I would recommend this story to those who really like time-travel, but it is not fast paced. If you want rousing adventure this is not the book to read, but you will get some historical fact and a good idea of the sentiment of that era.	2004-02-05
US	34844779	R3BEONV9N2RCY9	1931696713	652194993	Yorkshire	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Susan Tam<br />Rose Golightly is traveling with her family to Hareton Abbey for the wedding of her cousin, Edward Golightly, to the daughter of the Earl of Southwood. Edward's brother is the Earl of Hareton. Hareton Abbey is a neglected estate and it is falling apart. The Earl of Hareton wishes to break the entailment of the earldom's properties, since he wants to give it to his minister. He no longer wishes to be known as an Earl but as a regular gentleman. Rose meets the Earl of Southwood's family, his daughter and twin sons. Gervase Kerre has just returned from exile and Richard Kerre (Lord Strang) is with his fiancée, Julia. The Earl of Southwood refuses to allow his daughter to marry Edward when he sees the disrepair of the estate, not to mention the lack of social standing if the Earl of Hareton renounces his title. The next day, the Earl of Hareton, Edward and Lord Strang leaves to get the minister and there is a carriage accident. The Earl is killed instantly and Edward succumbs to his injuries. Lord Strang is injured but recovers. Rose's brother, James, becomes the new Earl of Hareton. Rose finds the cut strap to the carriage. She and Richard set out to find the culprit. Rose is attracted to Richard and, to her surprise, he returns her feelings. Of course, there are problems ahead as Richard has signed the marriage contract to Julia!!!<br />This was a delightful book!!!  Rose is correctly named as she literally blooms as the novel progresses. She is a wonderful heroine. She is intelligent, understated and strong. Her interaction with Richard is quite lovely to watch as their relationship slowly simmers and then comes to a boil. Richard is a fascinating character as there is so much more to him than the outward façade that is presented. The reader can understand why these two characters belong together as they naturally complement each other. The secondary characters were wonderful, from Gervase to James and Martha. The mystery of the whodunit is just an added bonus! This is the first book of what I can only hope is a very long series!!!! I have read the second book, Devonshire, and can wholeheartedly recommend both to you. I look forward to the next book in this series!	2004-02-04
US	34844779	R3RVSM2KQ29FWB	1592865305	369858669	Justin Flowers and the Orb of Time	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Kir Devon<br />Justin Flowers discovers that he is not like other kids in his thirteenth year of life. Everything changes when he discovers that he is a time traveler. Soon, Justin is visiting the ancient and more modern worlds with regularity. He is a Defender of History and must rescue The Orb of Time and keep it out of enemy hands.<br />As Justin rides through the time stream and takes advice from major and minor historical figures, he knows he must stay one step ahead of the sinister Raveler. Soon, Justin begins to acclimate to the changes and learns some important lessons about himself.<br />Justin Flowers and the Orb of Time is an intriguing blend of middle reader science fiction and fantasy. This is certain to appeal to Harry Potter fans. Justin's adjustments seemed glossed over, but did not truly prevent me from enjoying this book.	2004-02-04
US	34844779	R3PFPN6U0L2Y22	1592865992	43084051	The Spider in the Well	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Nancy Arant Williams<br />College senior Paul Ford is on a roll. He's handsome, talented and in his final year at the University of Minnesota. And most exciting of all, at his next game he'll be observed by pro football scouts. How could life get any better? <br />He can't believe his luck that a stunning blonde named Tiffany has declared her love for him; they have nothing but bright hopes for the future together. But Paul has a recurring nightmare that no one could imagine--and it's crippling his life and emotional stability. The dream is so vivid he wakes screaming, waking up his teammates in the dark of night. And all because of a stupid spider in a well.<br />Paul's parents are proud of their well-known son, and not just for his football successes. They are thrilled with his love of God and his desire to be an honorable man. His parents aren't rich, in fact money has never been an idol to them, but they can't help but be excited at the potential ministry opportunities Paul's football success will engender. <br />Tiffany's attitude is a puzzle he can't help but wonder about. Does she love him, or is it simply his potential fortune she's so crazy about?<br />As game day approaches, Paul prays for God's will to be done, but he has no idea the day will change the course of history as far as he's concerned. And when Paul's whole world collapses, he can't help but wonder what on earth God was thinking.<br />Paul's father, Andy, who has been ministering to down and out men at the city mission, invites his son to join him and speak to the men. What he doesn't anticipate is that someone will try to kill his dad. <br />In a thought-provoking look at how life's twists can shatter the human spirit, Lee Ann Ward brings hope and encouragement to those who want to get serious about walking with God. In a warm and genuine way, she examines attitudes that shape us and our world, showing that it is possible to live what you believe and still thrive.	2004-02-03
US	34844779	RO9P4SM42OTDD	1843604965	698941123	Mesmerized	Books	5	9	9	N	N	4.5 Star review from Timeless Tales	By TT reviewer Patricia McGrew<br />Sir Philip Ashton' Eyes Sahara Kelly<BR>Miss Abigail Foxworth is very politely turning down the fifth suitor for her hand this season. It didn't take much to convince Lord Reginald that she was not good enough for him. Even if his mother had said otherwise. Abigail had just about given up on finding an intelligent man that could cause her to skip a beat. That night for the first time she is captivated by Sir Philip Ashton's blue eyes.<br />Phillip has spent most of time in the laboratory at his country estate working on science projects. When he first sees Abigail in the front row of his lecture,he decides she is one experiment he wants for himself.<br />I thought this was a delightful story. Abigail wanted a guy with brains. Philip thought he was happy with his life till he found someone who could love him for himself. A great addition to this anthology.<br />Magic in the Works Ashleigh Raine<br />Elaine Ridgley decided that she was not going to get involved with anyone even remotely connected to her work. After her last relationship with a co-worker went bad, he was still causing her trouble with work projects. So when leaving the airport for her hotel she offers to share her taxi with a very gorgeous man. It doesn't take long for her to realize that the stranger is really her new boss.<br />Mark Ranzetti was attracted to Elaine from the time he first laid eyes on her. He had taken this job thinking that Elaine's project was going to be a failure and he had been called in to save it. But he found everything to be in great shape. During a hypnotism show, they are both hypnotized. Elaine finds that she can't resist Marks charm. While Mark and Elaine share each other's bodies during the night, someone is messing up their project. Can they sell the project before something else happens? Will they attraction last after the conference?<br />Magic in the Works is a great story about two people with have to work hard to overcome past wrongs to get to a love better than either had ever hoped for. The end ties up everything great with the villain getting his just desserts.<br />True Lies Jaci Burton<BR>URick Ric Lor is not happy first he has to go earth and recapture an M-Loran prisoner. Even worse he has to bring a human female with him. He doesn't find human females attractive and he needs to attain his sexual release. He had to miss his appointment with the M-Loran pleasure aides. So when he sees Mia, she is petite with hardly any breasts and hips. Not at all like M-Loran women. They have something to hold onto during sex.<br />Mia Logan, Police hypnotist was not thrilled that the prisoner had escaped, but to have to go with this M-Loran warrior was just too much. She had to admit that he is gorgeous it a huge sort of way. But everything about him irritates her, so how can she be so attracted to him at the same time. So she decided to try and hypnotize him to get what she wants.<br />Can Ric be hypnotized? Is he attracted to Mia in spite of her breasts and hips? Can they catch the escaped prisoner?<br />I love True Lies the best of all the stories. I don't think of have read anything by Jaci Burton before, but I can't want to read anything else she has. The relationship between Mia and Ric worked their way through all their differences. The little things that Ms. Burton added really made this story for me. I won't tell you what they are but you don't want to miss this story.<br />Mesmerized has something for everyone.  Don't pass up the Mesmerizing collection of stories.	2004-01-29
US	34844779	R2EVCFVTK7UKSA	159279968X	397215328	Second Generation	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Kir Devon<br />Partners Michael and Emilio are treasure hunters who seek some emeralds in 1930's South America. They are both convinced that this find will help their marriages. After a lengthy search, they discover the first of what will be many emeralds. They believe that the money from this will help their wives and preserve their family. After their success, Michael and Emilio go their separate ways, but still keep an interest in the mine. <br />Some years later, their children meet and Michael's daughter becomes a very underaged pregnant teen. Leigh is forced to travel to Europe and give birth to the baby in secret. Ultimately, their maid takes on the baby and raises it as her own. <br />Michael is unable to deal with all of this and vows revenge on Emilio and his family. When he manages to collect more emeralds, he pushes Emilio to do the unthinkable and suddenly, Leigh is alone in the world.<br />Leigh navigates the lonely road of her life, gathering professional successes as if they could soothe her lonliness. She stands to lose it all when her past threatens to rear its ugly head.<br />Beth Anderson's Second Generation is both compelling and dark in tone and atmosphere. Even though it is, the characters held this reviewer. Some shocking twists and turns make this a top notch saga and suspense all at the same time.	2004-01-22
US	34844779	RW5HCO4IKXA53	0843953136	13931669	The Year My Life Went Down the Loo	Books	4	2	2	N	N	4 star review from Timeless Tales	by reviewer J.P. Sydney<br />Told strictly through emails between two best friends separated by the Atlantic Ocean, The Year My Life Went Down the Loo is an interesting, humorous and entertaining look into contemporary teenage life.<br />Emily Williams isn't too happy. Her father is a medieval scholar who has taken a job for one year in England in a small hamlet called Piddlington-on-the-Weld (or Piddling-on-the-wheel as Emily calls it). So Emily has been uprooted from her life in Seattle and is now trying to make do and learn to live in a country that to her often feels like a completely different planet. But even places horribly far away from \\"home\\" can have their advantages, especially in the form of a hunk named Aidan.<br />Even though Aidan is a jerk more often than not, Emily sticks to the idea that his actions mean he likes her and because he's a hunk and was the first to ask her out, she returns that affection. Devon and Fang, two of Aidan's classmates, were more to my liking and are more obvious choices for Emily's affection. At times I became frustrated with Emily's inability to see past the faults of the somewhat slimy Aidan. But what teenage girl hasn't convinced herself that a relationship existed where one really didn't?<br />But there is so much more to this story than just boytalk, although that is an important part of any story that revolves around 16-year-old girls. There's the ghost that haunts Emily's underwear drawer, sibling rivalry between Emily and her older sister, and Emily's infatuation and semi-stalking of Oded Fehr--something I can completely relate to as an adult.<br />When I started this book, I was afraid that I would never be able to get deep into the story since everything is told through emails. But Katie Maxwell does a fantastic job and I never felt like I didn't really know these characters. The book leaves room for several sequels and I do look forward to hearing from Emily again in the future.	2004-01-22
US	34844779	R1389HGGBJFX8P	042518000X	677105451	Nursery Crimes (A Mommy-Track Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	5 star review from Timeless Tales!	from reviewer J.P. Sydney<br />Juliet Applebaum isn't cut out to be a working mom, but she isn't cut out to be a stay-at-home mom either. A former public defender, Juliet can't step away when she's thrust into the middle of a murder mystery.<br />All Juliet had wanted was for her two-year-old daughter, Ruby, to get into the prestigious Heart's Song School in Los Angeles. The initial meeting and interview don't go over well and they aren't offered the application for enrollment. Taking it in stride, Juliet and her husband, Peter, a screenwriter, begin to leave. But another man becomes violent with Principal Abigail Hathaway, demanding an application. Peter gets between the man and the principal and everyone leaves. Juliet would never have given any of this a second thought if later that night she hadn't heard of Abigail's untimely death by a hit and run driver.<br />Juliet can't get the violent encounter out of her mind, and involves herself in the police investigation. Using her connections at the Public Defenders office and some unique sleuthing skills (taking her daughter to a park near one of the suspect's homes so she could question the nanny), Juliet delves deeper into the background of both the victim and every suspect. But what starts out looking like a simple rage killing becomes more complex as Juliet learns more about the victim and the secrets she'd been hiding.<br />Ms. Waldman is very much like her character Juliet--a former public defender who is now a stay at home mom. I'm thankful for the transition because Ms. Waldman does a phenomenal job creating a fun, fast-paced mystery that I read in one sitting. Although Nursery Crimes is Ms. Waldman's first book, she's already found her voice. Smart, witty, and entertaining, she had me hooked from the very first page. Both Ms. Waldman and her heroine are women to be respected and admired for their accomplishments, and I can't wait to spend more time with Juliet in her further adventures.	2004-01-22
US	34844779	R2EH58AUVK3MGS	1573430226	529678938	Oracle	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Chere<br />It's Halloween and Jane Deerfield is dressed in her costume. She's dressed as her favorite comic book hero, the Oracle. Instead of the boots, she has on bright orange hightops. Of course, she's already missed all of the celebrations. Once again, she's stuck working on the computers in the college where she works. As a computer nerd, this is an occupational hazard for her. She's just getting ready to leave, when there's a sudden explosion. She feels herself being pulled into some kind of vortex, and then nothing.<br />She wakes up ice cold in some sort of a field. When she opens her eyes, there's her fantasy man come to life. He speaks to her, but she can't understand a word he says. Somehow, he manages to get her warmed up. He does some kind of a spell on her, and she can now understand everything he says to her. But he is only one that she can understand. He introduces himself to her as King Daken and tells her that he is a healer. He tries to explain to her that all Kings are healers. Daken is from Chigan and he is on his way to see the Elven King, Ginsen, in Bosuny. Daken's people are being attacked by the Tarveen and he wants the Elven King to give him an army so he can destroy them.  <br />So, they travel by foot to Bosuny. Jane finally comes to the realization that she was sucked into some kind of vortex and transported to a different planet. She knows that she is an alien here and wants nothing more than to go back to her own world. She is definitely attracted to Daken and he is also attracted to her. She notices that everything around her has some kind of energy. This place that Jane ended up is something like a medieval setting. There are no machines but magic is rampant, right down to living rivers.  <br />They finally get to Bosuny and it turns out that the Elven King's castle is actually the University that Jane used to work at. Daken takes her to the &quot;House of Prophecy&quot;. Jane can't believe what she finds inside. It turns out to be the computer that she was working on when the explosion occurred. Jane will now become the Keeper of Knowledge and have a seat on the Ruling Council if she can get the computer running again. She looks around her and finds a boy. She calls him Steve and decides to make him her assistant. Daken helps her as much as he can. She runs into her old boss, Dr. Beavesly, who is now a ghost in the computer system itself. Somehow, he melds with her mind and she has access to all of his memories. This is when the horror really comes into play as Jane is forced to relive what happened to her world. Some tech somewhere screwed up and started a nuclear holocaust. The magic that all of these people possess is, in reality, radio activeness. Some of the people managed to survive and melded with other living things in order to survive and it is now 200 years into Jane's future.  <br />Now, Jane has a mission. She has to get the computer up and running and she has to keep the planet from destroying itself again. She loves Daken, but he is counting on her to give her support for his plans to destroy all the Tarveen. Jane cannot condone the destruction of an entire race of people and fears what will happen when Daken discovers this.<br />Daken is a warrior, through and through. He was born the second son of a King and had no hopes of actually becoming the King. When his parents and brother were killed in a Tarveen raid, the responsibilities of being a King hit him hard. He had trained to become a warrior and is very good at it. Daken cares very deeply about Jane but is totally confused by her.  He is used to subservient women, which Jane definitely is not. Jane lost everything when she was sucked into the vortex, her world, her family, her friends and her career. She is totally lost and helpless until she enters the &quot;House of Prophecy&quot; and gets Dr. Beavesly's help. She is definitely not afraid to speak her mind and does so very frequently. She loves Daken but knows that shewill not be able to support his plans of genocide. She sees something in the boy she takes as her assistant, even though he is a mute. There was a prophecy about Steve as well. It was said that he would become a great wizard. Ginsen had him found and brought to the palace and became very disappointed in him. Steve eventually became a servant and was abused by a very powerful man. Due to Dr. Beavesly's memories, Jane knows about the abuse and does something about it right away. Steve becomes very loyal to Jane and does whatever he can to help her.<br />This really is a fantastic book. I was caught up from the very first page until the very last page. The characters are all very believable and well rounded. The world building is perfect, not enough to become bogged down in, but enough to read without any problems understanding what's going in. The story is very well-written. This is definitely a story that should be read. It is actually pretty frightening to read this and realize that this could all too easily come true. I loved watching how Jane had to learn the hard way about everything. She would never take anyone's word. She was pretty lucky that her boyfriend was a healer too. He ended up healing her pretty often as she got into one scrape right after another. This is a very entertaining, thought-provoking read that will stay with me for a very long time and I definitely recommend that everyone read it.	2004-01-19
US	34844779	R1EEBM8XI7V3F5	1896944078	375742475	Morevi: The Chronicles of Rafe and Askana	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 star review	by Kassandra Washington<br />Morevi: The Chronicles of Rafe and Askana is an excellent book that challenges its readers with a fantastical tale by thrusting the reader into the depths of another world that is both mystical yet includes a tinge of the Far East.  The writers' details reminiscent of the period and places succeed in immersing the reader into believable alternate worlds where Elf-folk and mortals coexist, and magic endures alongside the conventional weapons of man.<BR> <BR>The reader begins the journey in 1492, after the &quot;New World&quot; has been discovered and King Henry VIII's privateers roam the seas acquiring what bounty they may, commonly referred to as stealing in lands not of England, hence the name pirate is born.  A lone ship &quot;The Deviant&quot;, accustomed to battle and desperate circumstance, is being pursued by three Spanish ships whose captains will surely pronounce a death sentence for each and every privateer captured.  With the captain and first mate dead and ship heavily damaged, the navigator Rafe and a Moor, Nassir, rally the crew to embark on their only chance for survival; they must navigate the Graveyard of Lost Ships.<BR> <BR>The very name, Graveyard of Lost Ships, known also as the Rift, spoken in fear by every seaman; no ship was known to have tackled the Rift and survived, yet the young navigator convinced the crew, it was their only chance.  As the ship's course deviates toward the Rift, the three Spanish captains opt not to follow.  At first a brilliant light enticed the crew to believe that they would survive, just before the darkness of Hell descends upon them.  Had they a choice, their resolve would have wavered.  Alas, the crew of the Defiant discovers a portal to a new world, where new adventures, alliances, and an unlikely romance await.<BR> <BR>In the years to come, the Defiant finds itself navigating the Rift often, acquiring loot found only in this new world where Eyrie, Arathelle, and especially Morevi lay.It was a world where magic and potions were widely in practiced, though the most ancient and dark powers of these arts are forbidden, not that everyone obeys.  In these lands, the defiant English possess a faster ship and the black powder.  Ships and crews fall easily to their cannons, rifles, and guns.   Captain Rafe's favorite ships to plunder belong to Morevi and carry the most exotic wares, silks and teas; though the warrior women who guard these ships are formidable foes.  The privateer's success earned him a death sentence if ever his feet touched Morevi soil.<BR> <BR>Askana Moldarin, the First Queen of Morevi proved to be the most cunning and deadliest.  Having ascended the throne during a rebellion that overthrew the King, ended the patriarch system, and purged hoards of men from the land, her country and matriarch was threatened by treason at home and threats abroad.  Having no one she could trust, she meets with the privateer, Rafe, the most successful pillager of her merchant ships.  Why?  The young King of Eyrie, finding the new matriarch distasteful, yearned for the conquest and overthrow of the Morevian queen and sought to take her lands for himself.  The Merchant Circle on behalf of the Eyrie often paid Captain Raft for the bounty he seized from Askana's ships.  The Merchant Circle assumed Rafe would gladly join them in a plot to unseat the queen.  Unfortunately, for Eyrie, Rafe was the only privateer to refuse their money for such an endeavor and because of that one fact, Queen Askana gambled that somewhere deep within this scoundrel's soul was a man of honor, who if given a chance, would choose valor over greed.<BR> <BR>A queen, a privateer captain, a couple of younglings from the Royal Guard and an unlikely assortment of pirates set out to discover who threatened the throne.  An unexpected assassination attempt and deceit from an unlikely source force improvisation and send the motley crew sailing to the one person who may turn the tide of an uprising, King Henry VIII; though his vices bar initial negotiations, he proves to have a few surprises of his own.<BR> <BR>The Morevi's writing is superb and detailed down to the proper language of the time and the multitude of weaponry.  The reader immediately recognizes elements of Morevi that are evocative of the orient and martial arts.   The patriarch of England in contrast to the new matriarch of Morevi is vivid.  At first it seems the two worlds are completely different, yet as the account progresses, the reader realizes that England and Morevi are extremes of a sort and that the best world is one in which there is an equalization of the power between men and women.  Such a land is portrayed in the Elvin kingdom, which is the only domain to remain neutral and outside the conflict... though the elves are not infallible and if their uncharacteristic failure to fulfill an undesirable duty lets the more just cause prevail, well no one is perfect.	2004-01-19
US	34844779	R4YL9R0SWLXTI	097243772X	818085619	Oath of Challenge - Conquering Kate	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Amy Turpin<br />Tair da'Kamon is one of the most powerful men on his world. His powers exceed that of most. He found his mate, but has not claimed her so that he might be Link to his brother's mate. Now that his duty to his brother is done, he intends to claim and tame the lovely Kate. An easier task said than done.<br />Kate Carson is nobody's fool. She plays hardball and she wins. Having her best friend, Sharon, Called to Oath was hard enough, but now she faces a similar situation. Problem is, the very man calling her is the one man she has not been able to get out of her mind. He is sex personified. And she knows he is dangerous. He challenges her in so many ways she can barely keep up and she knows this is one game she has to win. She sees her best chance of survival as choosing the Oath of Challenge. All she has to do is resist having actual intercourse with the man for two weeks. Then she will be free to return home. Unfortunately, she isn't exactly sure where home is now.<br />Tair leads Kate on a sensual journey, exploring her sexuality. He challenges her in more ways than she ever thought possible. She finds new realms of possibilities she has only fantasized about before and Tair is making them all come true. Even some she won't even admit to herself. <br />Neither Tair or Kate wants a love relationship, but there are simply too many complications. Fate has destined them to be together. Can they really keep their hearts out of it?<br />This series is shaping up to be exciting indeed! With interesting primary and secondary characters, sizzling sex and a whole lot of imagination, author Chance has hit upon a winning combination. My compliments indeed! I look forward to the next story!	2004-01-19
US	34844779	RT9E0HEQIJYIX	0743300793	256932711	Tapestry	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Susan Tam<br />The opportunity to go back in time and make changes - who wouldn't want a chance to do so if they could? That is the premise of Tapestry. Katherine Hurston, wants to go back in time for the man she loves. However, if she changes the past, how much of the future would she be changing?  <br />Katherine is involved with a married man. They sneak around during the weekends. Steve breaks off the relationship due to guilt and the stress of the situation. Katherine is devastated by the break-up. She feels she has found the love of her life after all these years. Her friend, Callie Barnes tries to convince her that Steve is not the man for her but Katherine doesn't accept or believe it. She insists that Steve truly loves her and will leave his wife and marry her. Katherine wishes she could go back in time and be the woman Steve marries! Thus solving her problem of being the &quot;other&quot; woman.<br />Katherine meets Dr. Max Martin, a friend of Callie's husband. Dr. Martin's specialty is the paranormal. His company is doing research on a drug that allows the recipient to time travel into the past. Katherine is tested for it and found to be especially susceptible to it. Not many people respond to the drug but she does. Max has his own agenda for doing the research. His brother, Michael was murdered and he wants to find the murderer. Nick Kharija owns the company funding the research. His daughter is dying of a rare blood disorder. It is believed that a cure was found for it in ancient Egypt and he wants Katherine to go back in time to retrieve the scrolls. The scrolls were found by Max's brother and upon his death, the scrolls disappeared. Katherine goes forward with the experiment and what she does or doesn't do will affect her future as well as everyone else's! The question is whether it will be the outcome she wants or something unexpected.<br />This was a great book from beginning to end!!! The plot moved quickly and the author kept me turning the pages till the very end. Katerine is an older heroine -- she is 48 years old at the beginning of this story. A mature woman who knows what she wants but what she deserves is a totally different matter. All the characters added to the reader's enjoyment of the book whether they were the good guys or the bad. Tapestry would be enjoyed by all readers whether you like the romance or mystery genre. The author provided a satisfying ending to the book and most importantly, everybody gets what he or she deserves!!!	2004-01-19
US	34844779	R2RHV3M69S0JSA	1843601540	6003264	Oath of Seduction: Seducing Sharon	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Amy Turpin<br />Sharon knew she was in trouble from the moment she first laid eyes on the incredibly handsome alien standing before her. Liken was her every fantasy come true and he was destined to break her heart. Truth is, Sharon never thought the day would come when she would have to honor her Oath. <br />Liken has known Sharon was out there, waiting for him for over a year. He also knew that she was not ready for a life with him, but now is the time. He will capture her heart one way or another... no matter what it takes.<br />Sharon chooses Seduction as her means of knowing Liken. What she does not count on is falling hard and having to choose between a life with Liken on his world, or her own comfortable existence. Well, that and some very interesting customs. :) What will happen when you take a straight laced librarian and throw her into a world where sex is second nature? Well, I guess you'll just have to see for yourself!<br />This is shaping up to be a VERY interesting series! There were some extremely hot characters introduced that I can't wait to read about. As to the main story here . . . SIZZLING! It's a futuristic setting, but I believe anyone that loves romantica will enjoy this book. For sure, you'll be looking for the next book in the series!	2004-01-19
US	34844779	R282D57R52QOWT	1591298245	248356889	Jubilee	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Susan Tam<br />Jubilee is a historical novel set in Paris during the French Revolution. Jubilee is an American living in Paris with her family. She is in love with Jake, her father's business partner and they plan to marry. On the night of her engagement, her parents are murdered and Jubilee is taken to a brothel. Jake is blamed for it but it is a ruse by Larousee, her father's French business partner. Jubilee is alone until she is befriended by Marie, a streetwise girl and they plan to escape together. Larousee's son is killed and he blames the woman who murdered him. He is driven to find the killer. Jake is grieving for his fiancée but he finds clues that point to the fact that Jubilee is not dead but very much alive. He becomes determine to find her. Will Jake be able to find Jubilee? Will Jubilee survive her imprisonment?<BR> <BR>The setting, the characters and the plotline all fit together nicely. The characters experience pain, hope and love in this book. The reader roots for Jake, Jubilee and Marie as the story progresses. Jake searches for Jubilee. Jubilee and Marie searches for escape and some peace. Larousee searches for his son's murderer. All three are driven by their desires. The reader is drawn into the story slowly and before you know it, you want to find out what happens to the characters and how the story is resolved. The author has done an excellent job with the characterizations - the reader can empathize with the various characters. There are many twists and turns in this storyline, but it keeps the reader attention and the pages turning. The author has provided much information regarding the time period. She has done her research thoroughly and it shows! It is a well written book with memorable characters who remain in your mind even after the last page is turned. This was an excellent read!!!	2003-12-21
US	34844779	R1FQ7MMF8HOZO7	1592799213	306660546	Winddreamer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Susan Tam<br />Winddreamer is book #6 in the 10 book, WindLegends saga. This is the continuation of Conar McGregor's story. Legion  A'Lex is still the King and Elizabeth (Liza) is still his wife. Legion and Conar are brothers. Conar and Elizabeth use to be married. Conar was believed to be dead and Legion married Elizabeth to protect her and her child but he has always loved her too! Legion is very jealous of Elizabeth and Conar's past. Although they have assured him they will never betray him, he is unable to believe this. Kaileel Tohre is back. He has in the past tortured Conar physically and sexually molested him when he was a child. Tohre wants Corbin, Conar's son since Corbin has magical powers but Tohre wants him sexually too! Thus the saga and the questions continue. Will Tohre be able to get Corbin? Will Legion and Elizabeth's marriage survive? Will Conar and Elizabeth be reunited?  <br />This was another powerhouse of a book by Ms. Boyett-Compo. The saga of Conar and Elizabeth continues with even more twists and turns. Ms. Boyett-Compo has written another intensely emotional, heart wrenching book. There is much pain and suffering throughout this book, emotional and physical by the various characters especially Elizabeth. It is definitely not for the faint of heart. If you have read any of the previous WindLegends books, be assured this one continues in the same vein. As Ms. Compo answers some of the questions raised in previous books even more are raised during this book. I would not recommend you picking up this book without reading the previous books. Since this is an on-going Saga, there is so much history between the various characters; it would be easier to understand the events/actions in Winddreamer if you have read books 1 through 5. However, if you invest the time and energy to read the books in this series, you will be rewarded  with a tale that remains in your mind even after you have reached the last page!	2003-12-21
US	34844779	R24LWMJEP6UWZE	1592799213	306660546	Winddreamer	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Susan Tam<br />Winddreamer is book #6 in the 10 book, WindLegends saga. This is the continuation of Conar McGregor's story. Legion  A'Lex is still the King and Elizabeth (Liza) is still his wife. Legion and Conar are brothers. Conar and Elizabeth use to be married. Conar was believed to be dead and Legion married Elizabeth to protect her and her child but he has always loved her too! Legion is very jealous of Elizabeth and Conar's past. Although they have assured him they will never betray him, he is unable to believe this. Kaileel Tohre is back. He has in the past tortured Conar physically and sexually molested him when he was a child. Tohre wants Corbin, Conar's son since Corbin has magical powers but Tohre wants him sexually too! Thus the saga and the questions continue. Will Tohre be able to get Corbin? Will Legion and Elizabeth's marriage survive? Will Conar and Elizabeth be reunited?  <br />This was another powerhouse of a book by Ms. Boyett-Compo. The saga of Conar and Elizabeth continues with even more twists and turns. Ms. Boyett-Compo has written another intensely emotional, heart wrenching book. There is much pain and suffering throughout this book, emotional and physical by the various characters especially Elizabeth. It is definitely not for the faint of heart. If you have read any of the previous WindLegends books, be assured this one continues in the same vein. As Ms. Compo answers some of the questions raised in previous books even more are raised during this book. I would not recommend you picking up this book without reading the previous books. Since this is an on-going Saga, there is so much history between the various characters; it would be easier to understand the events/actions in Winddreamer if you have read books 1 through 5. However, if you invest the time and energy to read the books in this series, you will be rewarded  with a tale that remains in your mind even after you have reached the last page!	2003-12-21
US	34844779	R32VZDHK4LKR01	1592799582	481077245	Eyes Of Betrayal	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Patricia McGrew<br />Two years ago Marcus &quot;Snake&quot; Gallego left Henry County and Detective LeAnne McVeigh. Not telling LeAnne why he was leaving, she thought he just wanted to leave her. When Snake finally comes home, he brings Egan  &quot;Villain&quot; Tate and a girl back with him. When they roll into town, LeAnne and her best friend Whitney Montgomery, the town doctor, are standing on the sidewalk. LeAnne is not sure she can go through the heartbreak again. <br />Tate and Snake have brought Ginny Summers to this small town for a reason. She had been the girlfriend of Randy, the leader of the Lords of Lucifer bike gang. After a drug supplier raped her, she had turned him into the Feds. Randy was not going to take losing his drug supplier lightly. They had hopes of hiding here awhile, away from the Lords and the Feds. Tate knew that his life would be over if Randy knew that he helped her escape. <br />Whiney is attracted to Tate, but she had worked to hard to be the town doctor and didn't want to lose her respectability by hanging out with a lowlife. When Ginny turns up dead in exactly the same way Snake's wife had two years ago, they knew the killer was back. The crime was still unsolved. Whitney is the acting coroner and LeAnne is the detective in charge. Snake had an alibi, so it is looking like Tate will be charged. But then someone from the Lords arrives to take Tate back to the gang he had walked away from, with the Feds not far behind. Will the gang get Tate back? Will they use Whitney to get to him? Will Snake get past Leanne's defenses? <br />Eyes of Betrayal is the sequel to Kiss of Deceit. This story has everything: dead bodies, Harleys, romance and a lot of suspense. I like the way Ms. Rasey developed Tate's character. Snake and Tate are bikers who have developed a sense of honor. LeAnne and Whitney are strong women with a taste for bad boys. This is a very fast-paced novel. The end is worth the whole book. I didn't want it to end. I hope MsRasey is busy writing.	2003-11-05
US	34844779	RC9ZLAYJRHGB1	1843606186	999280109	Menage a Magick (Wizard Twins, Book 1)	Books	5	96	98	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Amy L. Turpin<br />The magick of the world is dying. The only way to bring rejuvenation is to once again ally the Wizards of the Cauldaran and the Sorceresses of the Covenani. The Wizard Twins must claim their Sorceress mate. The Wizard Twins of House Veraga, Lasan and Drago, have found their mate, but have been unable to claim her due to her unreasonable fear of joining with the brothers. It seems there are more than mere maidenly fears at work here and the two men must figure out how to ease her into their life and their bed.<br />Princesses Brianna of House Sellane, the ruling family of the Covenani, is the chosen consort of Lasan and Drago, but due to the separation of the Wizards and Sorceresses she has heard horrible tales of the painful mating that Wizard Twins subject their consorts. She is fearful, and she is the most stubborn creature imaginable! She fights her attraction to both Twins, but soon realizes that her body and her power will not be denied. <br />Unfortunately, there are evil forces at work to prevent the alliance and rebalance of power and Brianna soon discovers that even her own house is no longer safe. With the emergence of her power soon at hand and the dangers surrounding her, Lasan and Drago have run out of time to persuade the little princess there will be no pain or harm to her as their consort, only incredible pleasure. In order for them to join as mates, the joining must take place at the moment her power emerges and that time is now.<br />Can Brianna overcome her lifelong fears of mating with Wizard Twins? Can Lasan and Drago keep the princess safe? And the other Wizard Twins? They must all claim their consorts to right the magick in the world. This is a time of great peril and only the strongest can rebuild all that was lost.<br />What a sensual read! The imagination involved in this work is unbelievable. There are strong, interesting, funny characters and situations mixed with just the right amount of danger. For the fantasy lover, this is for you! Don't miss out!	2003-11-02
US	34844779	RRXHSSNRUNUFK	1843605597	505437171	Swept Off Her Feet	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Timeless Tales review for Swept Off her Feet	By TT reviewer Nicole LaFolle<br />Glennora, at seven feet tall with tangerine eyes, has always felt like a freak. She had been adopted at age 3 after her mother died in a crash. It was only after the failure of her marriage that Nnora found out why she was so different. She is the Royal Princess of the exiled Rb'qarmshi living on Mars. Her Father had sent her and her mother away to protect them during a civil war. When their shuttle crashed and her mother was killed, her father lost any easy means of finding Nnora.<br />Glendevtorvas is Prince Regent of Rb'qarm and Rb'nTraq. For the last 200 years the two planets have been fighting. The war ended twenty years ago when the Rb'nTraqi introduced a poison into the food chain preventing the fems of both planets from being sexually viable. The two planets will die out unless Dev can find the exiles who left 1000 years ago after an earlier civil war.<BR> <BR>After negotiating with the ruler of the colony on Mars, Dev heads to Earth to collect the Royal Princess who will be his bride. He is prepared to accept her for the good of his people, no matter her appearance and  is stunned by his good fortune when he sees the beauty that will be his mate and co-ruler. Even better, she is experiencing the year long sexual heat of the Pava. She is obviously suffering from insatiable desire and Dev sets out to do all in his power to satisfy her.<br />Ms. Anthony has written a very enjoyable first book. Her unique plot is brought to life through the interaction of many original characters. Nnora, with her Earth background, is easy for the reader to identify with. Dev is an alpha male with definite ideas of what Nnora should be doing. The sparks that fly between them make the already unusual sex, even more exciting. Ms. Anthony has gifted her characters with several interesting sexual characteristics that are certain to please the reader. If you enjoy light science fiction mixed with a steamy romance, be sure to pick this one up.	2003-10-30
US	34844779	R16WLV580GKUY7	1843605694	49170624	A Taste for Passion (Book 1):  Ellora's Cave Presents	Books	5	15	17	N	N	4.5 Stars from Timeless Tale book reviews!	From TT reviewer Patricia McGrew<br />Rana Sterling is grieving for grandfather, Jack. At the graveside service, she barely notices the man she brushes up against on leaving. For some reason he now fills her dreams at night and her thoughts in the daytime. To try to escape her grief, she gets in the vette and takes to the open roads. <br />No amount of driving can stop her thoughts. On the way back to town she <BR>stops at a small antique shop. Looking at a tray of jewelry, Rana is drawn to the rings. Placing it on her finger, it's a perfect fit. For some reason the ring sells like Lavender. Paying for the ring, she wears it out of the store. <br />Lucian Trevane is a vampire. He has five days to take over the leadership of his people. It was a position he didn't want without his soul mate. She had been lost to him for centuries. Seventy years ago she was killed before he could claim her as his mate. He had place the ring in storefronts in hopes of her coming back to him again. When his sister, Sabryn tells him a young woman came to her shop and brought the ring and had the ability to smell the fragrance he knew his love was back. This time he had to get to Rana before his rival for leadership, Kraid gets to her first. <br />As much as Rana is attracted to Lucian, she runs in fear when she finds out he is a vampire. Running into the street, she is struck by an oncoming car. <br />Dying, she goes to the Gatekeeper. He tells her Lucian is a good man and would make the best leader for his people. Without her help he won't take the position, so he wants her to go back to earth and help Lucien defeat Kraid. But she has to stay pure and not let him take her as his true mate until he is Leader and then she has to come back to heaven. <br />Can Rana stand leaving Lucien for a second time? What will it do to Lucian losing her again? Will love finally triumph?? <br />A Taste for Passion has a little of everything, great characters, striking secondary characters, danger, sexual tension and suspense at the end. What more can you ask for? Lucian is to die for, a truly seductive vampire who knows how to make his woman feel special. Ms. Michelle is definitely an author not to be missed. Her ability to make her characters come alive has her on my list of authors to automatically buy. I can't wait for the sequel \\"A Taste for Revenge\\".	2003-10-30
US	34844779	R2ZZUFAELL92MH	1904224520	763110326	Return from the Hunt	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by M. Freeman<br />This is the second book in a trilogy. In the first, five boys had been thrown back in time. In this one, &quot;Return from the Hunt&quot; only three boys return; Peter, Mike, and Davey. It has been four months since their return and still they struggle. After learning to survive in the brutal past it is hard to adjust to the relative ease and boredom in the present. This changes when they become the target for bullies.   How they deal with the bullies brings them to the attention of Davey's Grandpa and Mike's father, both former military personnel that had served in the same unit at one time. Peter confesses to them about where they had been for the last year and they accept it. After another confrontation with the bullies, Mike's father tells the boys they need to be &quot;debriefed&quot; and brings together old army buddies to form the &quot;Group&quot; to help train the boys and guide them. In the midst of this, Peter finds that the 'ghost' of the Duke they had supposedly killed is living as an entity within his mind.  <BR> <BR>Meanwhile a custody battle is being waged over the fate of Peter. His father wants him to live with his Aunt Ina, a devout Catholic, and attend a private Jesuit school. His mother wants him to do as he wishes, which is live with his Aunt Jean and cousin Davey and attend public school. This finally brings the parents to see him at Christmas time to settle the matter. To assist with this problem the current Duke steps in to lend financial and legal help. The Duke is also a former military member and is part of the &quot;Group&quot;. He also encourages and supports the training of the boys. All this leads up to the question of whether Peter, Mike, and Davey are going back. They have a promise to keep to the long dead Duke (now occupying Peter's mind) to protect his infant son until his majority.<BR> <BR>I found this a much less interesting book than the first. The characters were largely two dimensional and unbelievable. The fact that Peter's parents did not even physically see him until six months after his return, I found highly implausible. Most parents I know would have been there as soon as possible especially after a year-long disappearance. Secondary characters seem to pop up at a whim and conversations were long, stilted, and redundant. I found it hard to accept that, even after a year in the harsh conditions of the past, Peter and his fellow time-travelers could lead or direct seasoned military veterans decades older then they. (Not to mention the fact that the adults unquestionably believed the boys' fantastical tale and assisted in training them.) This is clearly a transitional novel toward the inevitable conclusion of the next. I feel that young readers (thirteen to fifteen) may find this entertaining, but as an adult I found it harder to enjoy.	2003-10-28
US	34844779	R1Y7XE1XZFFCC5	1904224555	984454899	Rules of the Hunt	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by M. Freeman<br />The five boys stared in shock at the man hung by his feet being whipped, overseen by the cold, calculating Duke.  Only five minutes prior they had just been school chums out for a bit of mischief on a Halloween night.  Now they were flung back in time to the medieval era of their Scottish Isle unwilling participants in &quot;The Hunt&quot;.   <BR>  <BR>Forced to survive, the boys turn to the eldest in their group, the only one with the skills to hunt but starvation is still a chilling reality.  Not until they come into contact with a local sheep farmer do their fortunes turn.   It is there they are introduced to the ceremonial head of the Island, Andrew, the keeper of the old ways and enemy of the Duke.  It is he who helps them find temporary homes and assists in helping them to adjusting to life in the past.  Still, the boys cling to the hope and desire to go back.  Together they face betrayal and stark brutality that test their courage and honor.  <BR> <BR>As they approach the anniversary of their arrival to this dark past the boys realize they must once again participate in &quot;The Hunt&quot;.  Only this time with full knowledge of the rules.  It is here they must confront their greatest enemy, the Duke and worst fears.  Hard decisions will have to be made and even a bigger price paid before any of them can return.<BR> <BR>Hugh McCracken has written an intriguing tale winding fact and fiction into a chillingly honest one.  The easy cruelty of the time makes a mockery of painted image that many have of the past.  The characters depict the struggles of fourteen year old boys with emotion and volatility.  Idiomatic expressions and words native to the United Kingdom pepper the writing adding a certain amount of interest.   It is an easily read story and moves fairly quickly.   Young readers would enjoy this book immensely and identify well with the characters.	2003-10-22
US	34844779	R1L6L1Q9JISFTB	0759901007	427122995	Star-Crossed	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Chere<br />Kellen Votrain, exo-biologist, is taking his best friend, Tristan Mallory, astro-physicist, to a conference away from Earth.  As the two of them are talking and having a beer, they get attacked by a ship they know they won't be able to outrun or outgun.  <br />When Tristan wakes up, he finds himself in a hospital room.  He has been badly wounded and the doctors don't even think that he will live.  If he does manage to survive, he will end up being a paraplegic.  <br />Mara d'Jorel, astro-physicist on Arden, somehow managed to win a lottery and can have a man live with her for the period of one year.  Her friend, Patta, is trying to talk her into doing just that.  Mara doesn't believe in the harem system, or the lottery.  Her mother didn't believe in it either.  Mara has been planning on going the sperm donor route.  Mara's mother died not all that long ago.  She was a famous scientist on Arden and made an important scientific discovery that made a lot of money for Arden, thereby allowing Mara to live the life of luxury.  She has her own home, a live-in housekeeper, a collie, a cat and a rab-cat, an indigenous species to Arden.  Arden was hit with a plague many years ago.  This plague tended to kill men and boys.  When Arden requested Earth's help, they were turned down and quarantined.  Ever since that time, Arden turned it's back on everything to do with Earth.  <br />Patta finally convinces Mara to go through the available males in the lottery.  Patta notices a man with green eyes, very unusual on Arden.  The man has an Earth name.  Mara finally finds a name that is familiar to her.  It is the name of a fellow astro-physicist, Tristan Mallory.  Mara notices that he is in the hospital.  Mara goes to the hospital and gets in Tristan's room just as he is waking up.  The nurse tells them both that Kellen died in the crash.  Mara starts visiting Tristan on a daily basis and brings him little gifts.  She has never been around men before and is totally innocent.  Tristan doesn't act anything like what she has been led to expect from a man.  In order to help his recovery, she decides not to tell Tristan anything about the way that men are treated on Arden.  <br />Kellen ends up being taken to the head of Internal Security of Arden, Cadaran d'Hasta.  She has decided to take possession of him in order to train him to become a bed slave.  Cadaran hates men and only uses them for the pleasure they can bring her.  She tries to break Kellen, but can't.  She decides to go for  drugs to control him and injects him with Lotus, a nasty little sex drug.  Kellen's life has become hell.  Cadaran repeatedly beats and abuses him.<br />Mara has been working behind the scenes to try and get possession of Tristan.  She finally manages to accomplish it and Tristan is released from the hospital.  She brings him home and he ends up being fitted with a bracelet, which will not allow him to go anywhere but in the bedroom and garden.  He won't even be able to go to the kitchen if he wants to.  Now, he begins to realize the circumstances that men live under on Arden.  Mara has tried to shield him from this, but can't anymore.  Tristan continues to improve under Mara's loving care.  He eventually regains the use of his legs.  Mara and Tristan are very attracted to each other, but don't act on it.  <br />Eventually, Mara and Tristan come to the realization that they will have to escape Arden.  Will they be able to get away from Arden and take Kellen with them?  Will Cadaran realize what is going on and stop them?  Why are so many men being kidnapped in this one area of space and who is behind it?<br />This science fiction story is action-packed, from the very first page to the last one.  This story is also filled with emotions, as Mara realizes that the beautiful planet that she loves dearly is not perfect, and when Mara eventually gives in to her feelings for Tristan.  It also shows the depravity that can occur in the idle rich as we travel along with Kellen, first with Cadaran and then a woman even worse than Cadaran.  The condition that Kellen is in when they finally manage to escape is enough to make one cry.  He definitely has no desire to be touched at all and flinches when anyone does touch him.  And the lengths that Cadaran goes to in order to maintain her power is unbelievable.  The characters in this story are all very well-rounded, right down to Floppy, the rab-cat that Mara rescued and raised.  The worlds are all very believable, right down to the E men.  This is definitely a story that is worth the time to read it.	2003-10-11
US	34844779	R2P0P6LPABBGG9	1931742022	839506788	Wind Walker	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Chere<br />Arin is having the dream again. He always knows if she will be here by the smoke on the mountain. He isn't allowed to touch her during a dream. She is crying now. She tells him that her parents are dead and her Great-Uncle will soon be coming to take her and her brother away. She will begin her training as a Wind Walker as soon as her uncle takes her. She has never told him her name. While they are talking, Arin sees a man with gray hair approaching. He grabs his friend and takes her away.  <br />He wakes up screaming and his father, Commodore Marcus Dorwen, comes running in Arin's room. Arin knows that he was adopted. His father now decides that Arin is old enough to learn the truth. It turns out that Arin is Ayanlak and that his father grabbed him during a sacrifice. Arin was being sacrificed. Some Ayanlak were getting ready to drop Arin into a flame, he still bears the scar on his arm caused by the fire.  <br />The Ayanlak were on this world when the Humans came in their ships. The Humans were forced to land and there has fighting between the two races ever since, mainly caused by the Humans. They are trying to take over more and more of the planet. The Ayanlak live much simpler lives. The Humans treat them as sub-Human.  <br />It is years later now, and Arin has studied and become an engineer. His adopted mother died and he is very close to his father. His assistant, Jolif, is Ayanlak and is the best friend Arin ever had. The two have even become blood-bonded. Arin is sent to a town to build a bridge over a river.  <br />Tayree and her twin, Talon, have become Wind Walkers. She was being pursued by the twin-heir, Palan. Tayree sensed the evil in him and turned him down. Eventually, he tried to rape her and didn't succeed because of her brothers. She married her twin's best friend in order to safe from Palan. It didn't work. Palan poisoned her three sons, and killed her Chaiqua (an animal that protects the nobly born and Wind Walkers). When Tayree'shusband learned of the death of their sons, he went after Palan and both of them ended up going over a cliff together.  Tayree is still mourning her loss. She has a dream that the other twin-heir is still alive and living with the Na'Huma. She is sent to the Na-Humas to find him and teach him all she can of the Ayanlak way of life during their trip back to her people.  <br />When she finally finds him, he is an identical twin to Palan. She sees her enemy's face every time she looks at him. Arin meets Tayree and begins to fall in love with her. It turns out that Arin was stolen from his parents and they miss him dearly. He finally gets permission from his Uncle to accompany Tayree back to the Canyon to his parents. And so they begin their trip back, facing danger at every step.<br />Arin never really fit in with the Humans as a child. He was never really accepted as one of them. So, he turned all his energies into becoming an engineer. He is hoping that his high placement in their government will help him to fit in. He lived his whole life believing that he was never really wanted. After all, his parents were going to sacrifice him. When he finally learns the truth, he is shocked. He has always had the ability to &quot;talk&quot; to animals and influence them and has tried to hide this his whole life. Now, he begins to understand some of this and is anxious to learn all he can about the Ayanlak and their way of life. He also recognizes Tayree as the girl he saw in his dreams as a child. He begins to fall in love with her and hates what his evil twin did to her. He is afraid that she will never be able to overcome this. Jolif is a good friend to Arin. He is really the only friend that Arin has. When Tayree comes and Arin learns the truth about himself, it is Jolif that helps him to accept what he is. Tayree is a Wind Walker. She has trained for this and it is her whole life. Her duties as a Wind Walker are the most important thing to her. She has been hurt badly andhas yet to heal. She knows what is expected of her and really doesn't want to do it. Eventually, she begins to see the man that Arin has become. She still sees Palan in his face and knows that friends are all they will ever be.<br />I love the way that Indian legend and folklore is woven all through the story. This one is quite different from of Michelle Levigne's Commonwealth stories. There is no space travel during the course of this story. This one takes place all on one planet. The characters in the story are all very well rounded and the world as described is incredible! I loved the way that Arin had to learn to overcome the prejudice that faced him, first among the Humans and later among the Ayanlak because of Palan. This is a wonderful story full of adventure and myth and racial strife. This is one you definitely don't want to miss.	2003-10-11
US	34844779	R37QY248I0JAZ1	077157004X	871642854	The Other Elizabeth (Jeanpacs)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Susan Tam<br />Elizabeth has been touring a restored village on the St. Lawrence river in Canada with her classmates.  She is drawn to the tavern on the grounds.  As she follows the tour guide, she is thrown back in time.  She is no longer Elizabeth Duncan but Elizabeth Frobisher.  She is no longer in the present but back in the past, the War of 1812 is about to begin and she is watching it happen.  <br />Elizabeth Frobisher is slowly recovering from her illness.  Thus her family and friends dismisses her &quot;strangeness&quot; as part of her illness.  She is found wandering around by family friends and brought home.   Elizabeth realizes she is living in the past and tries to remember all she was taught in history class.  She has to learn how to live in the 19th century - from the clothing to the food.  She gets to interact with the Indians living in the area and she is a caretaker for her many siblings. Elizabeth's brother is joining the militia to fight.  She is worried since she knows that the war will be starting soon. Can Elizabeth find her way back to the future?  Or is she fated to stay in the past forever?<br />This book would be excellent for young readers.  It presents &quot;history&quot; in an unique way.  The story pulls the reader in and keeps you interested till the very last page. The author details the many facets of living in the early 19th century.  She provides a nice balance in the amount of information she provides - it is just enough to educate and inform the reader and not so much as to drag the storyline down.  The story was an easy read and I believe young readers will enjoy learning about &quot;history&quot; in the context of the storyline.	2003-10-11
US	34844779	RM7PDV8FN6T98	1592799434	902041793	Suspicious Minds	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Tina<br />Ryan Donatelli is a reporter who fabricates a new identity for himself when his sister, Shelley, is murdered. Prior to her death, Shelley and Ryan worked as a team; Shelley would bring down the criminals in her role, as FBI agent and Ryan would write their story. In her last assignment, Shelley had been undercover within a brokerage firm to locate evidence against Sam Southard and Crime Boss, Nick Demarco. It was during this time she was murdered, and Ryan decided he would go under cover to find the killer, doing whatever was necessary to find evidence against Southard, including manipulating his daughter Natalie, and using her in whatever way necessary. <br />Natalie Southard appears as a strong, confidant woman who has her own doubts about her father's business relationship with Demarco. She has chosen to violate company policy, and enlisted a friend's friend, to browse through her father's office to find evidence of this manipulative relationship. It is during this time the reader is introduced to Natalie and Tom as a couple for the first time, and to the dynamics at play between them. <br />Natalie and Tom are as suspicious of one another as they are of her father and Demarco. While they progress to trusting each other enough to work together, although Natalie believes Tom is lying to her, they continue to develop their evolving relationship from lust to passion to love. It is this mission to find the truth that casts a shadow on Natalie and Tom's relationship.  <br />Suspicious Minds is an intriguing read, providing the reader with several plots, which add to the complexity of the story. The characters are interesting and while not quite three-dimensional, an exciting story awaits as love and trust are explored, as well as betrayal and familial connections. It is this very premise that there are many layers to individuals, and family may never be who they appear to be, which is so fascinating about this book.	2003-10-11
US	34844779	R1WMRZPNFGJ755	0972437703	732147203	The Empress' New Clothes (Trade Paperback Erotic Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Amy L. Turpin<br />Welcome to Planet Tryston, Trek Mi Q'an Galaxy, Seventh Dimension where the senses rule and sexual pleasure is sought above all else. A place where men are giants and women are the objects of their desire. A place where women are cherished and protected above all else, and live only to please their men. Oh, I forgot to mention. They also parade around in public more than half naked and make love passionately and often! <br />Zor Q'an Tal is High King of Tryston and Emperor of Trek Mi Q'an galaxy. A powerful man both in position and stature and his quest is simple: Find his Sacred Mate, the woman he would be bound to for all his long years, becoming the only woman he would ever be intimate with again. That in itself is really something since the man has somewhere around six hundred women at his beck and call just waiting to pleasure him. Once he has his Sacred Mate, all would be well in his life and he would be contented. Well, that is unless she happens to be a human woman from present day Earth. <br />Kyra Summers is a tax accountant who only wants to find peace of mind after her beloved sister's disappearance. Fire haired and fair skinned, this beauty is about to be whisked away by a seven-feet-four-inch almost four hundred-pound barbarian who just happens to be the most handsome man she has ever seen! Needless to say, she is less enthusiastic to find out that clothing and modesty as she knows them are about to be redefined in a BIG way. Not only does she find herself wed to this intensely sexual specimen, but she is also thrust into a world where eroticism is a way of life. <br />OH MY! What a story! I was totally blown away by the sheer imagination of each sexual situation! Not only is this work highly sensual and intensely erotic, but hysterical as well! Ms. Black has created a wonderful set of characters and a beautiful setting for them. This book is Romantica at its best and a must read for the lover of erotic fiction! My compliments toJaid Black for such a wonderful work of art!	2003-10-10
US	34844779	R1HRE2MAXV7TMC	1843605724	365414490	Madam Charlie	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Amy L. Turpin<br />Charlotte or Madam Charlie as she was now known, Countess of Calverton and widow of the Sixth Earl knew she was in trouble. The new Earl, Colonel Jordan Lyndhurst, was in town and doubtless he would not be pleased to learn that the Dowager Countess now owned a &quot;house of ill-repute.&quot; <br />To say nothing of the fact that it was highly probable that she had murdered her husband. <br />Jordan knew nothing about the enigmatic woman running the place, only that he felt drawn to her as he had never been drawn to another woman before. Fortunately, he loved puzzles and Charlie was one puzzle he intended to master. <br />After an unpleasant encounter with a customer who liked to hurt her girls, Charlie found herself whisked away to the handsome Earl's London home where he was intent on protecting her, and learning her secrets. ALL her secrets. And the bliss they both discovered there was immeasurable. <br />It didn't take long for Jordan to discover he had finally met his own Waterloo. Ah, but surrender was never so sweet. In love with Charlie, he was determined that his submission would not be for nothing. He intended to have Charlie, now and forever. But her past and her present could prevent the relationship he yearns for. But then again, Jordan always did love a challenge . . . <br />What a wonderful tale! Although not laced with as much humor as I've come to expect from Ms. Kelly, I fell in love with her characters instantly. Jordan and Charlie were well suited and I sincerely hope to read more about Jordan's friends Elizabeth and Spencer.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	RXBAB9Y7ES69C	1590802330	937993983	The Dragon Laird	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Brenna<br />Dylan Conner McGregor is laird of the land, an honorable man but a man marked with a sign that makes his people see him as an evil omen. He doesn't believe in religion, especially the old religions. His lack of respect for such things mean that he orders his men to hunt in the dark forest, where two of his men are lost to a dragon. As usual, anything that goes wrong is blamed on Dylan, and so he goes into the forest himself to find the men, which is where he comes upon a young woman swimming in a seemingly magical pool of water, a woman who makes him want her instantly then disappears. He leaves, vowing that one day, the mysterious lady will be his.<br />When Rhiannon emerges from the pool to find her crown of flowers missing, she blames animals. Little does she know, she has just encountered her fate. The witch, Dela, is the grandmother Rhiannon never had, a solitary old woman who lives deep in the forest and sees futures. Today, Dela has seen a bit of Rhiannon's future, a future in which she loves an enemy of the dragon's mark and uses the connection between them to destroy a great evil.<br />Rhiannon is frightened of this task, but there is a glimmer of hope in it. The past that she has no memory of will be revealed to Rhiannon at last. Dela brought Rhiannon and her brother out of the forest and gave them to the parents who raised them. Who is Rhiannon? Where are her parents? Why is she the one chosen to be mate to the enemy at a time when her brother Robbie is off to fight the MacGregors?<br />An evil Mage wants Rhiannon and will stop at nothing to get her before she can consummate her relationship with Dylan. She is the daughter of &quot;Meg, The Life Giver,&quot; and her blood will make a powerful potion the Mage wants. Will his servant get to Rhiannon before Dylan finds her? Will her mad journey to the battle on MacGregor lands save her life?<br />Ms. Lynne has written a stunning tale. I found myself getting lost in the story for long periods of time, and the only break I took was when I looked up, realized it was almost three in the morning, and decided it would be prudent to sleep the rest of the night before finishing the book. What did I dream of? A dark haired lord who speaks to dragons.<br />The main characters are well-written and true to self. The secondary characters were more sketchy, but I believe -- I hope -- we will be seeing more of them in subsequent books. I want to know much more about Robbie and see him discover what he is. The landscape was well described, and while the story passed by what seemed obvious logical steps of advancement, I am sure there were reasons that will become clear in future books in this world.<br />If I had any complaints that kept this book from being a perfect score it would be only two. The first concerned proofing errors that I found glaring. The errors might escape many readers in the sweeping storyline, but to someone accustomed to proofing, they pulled me out of the story several times, and that is rather jarring. The other weakness -- and this is a minor thing -- was the ocassional jumps of logic or reasoning that didn't seem to flow smoothly from what came before. Once immersed in the new mindset, it made sense, but a bit more transition would have made the jump more seamless.<br />A worthwhile read that will make you long to visit the green hills, seek out the faery and watch dragons battle in the skies. I look forward to reading more from this world and this author. Well done, Ms. Lynne!	2003-10-09
US	34844779	RGZQO3YYGUHPR	1843606208	328878874	Redemption	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Stars Review	by Sophie Murphy<br />Drew was finally back home after twelve years away. He hadn't just been away, he'd been in prison for murder. Unfortunately, to his dismay, there was no one waiting when he got off the bus. After four hours of fruitless waiting, he started to walk. <br />Charlie felt sorry for the bedraggled looking drifter sitting in the farthest back corner, drinking his solitary coffee. Janelle, the young cook, had taken pity on him and made him something to eat. Janelle was attempting to convince Charlie that he would be a good, cheap labor prospect to help on Charlie's ranch. Charlie was working full time, plus trying to look after the horses all alone. While in theory it was a good idea, she was skeptical about hiring someone who probably wouldn't be around long. As she drove home, she had second thoughts and wished she had hired him. He was big, and looked strong enough to handle the heavy bales of hay that needed to be loaded into the barn, not to mention the myriad of other jobs around the place. <br />After what seemed like minutes, but was definitely more, she stumbled out of bed, determined to get the bales put away, at least as much as she could. When she got to the barn, she looked with disbelief. Every last bale was stored in the barn. There was no way she could have managed all that herself in the same amount of time. This was the pattern over the next few days. When she was at work or sleeping, her chores would get done. She was convinced she had a ghost. Janelle suggested she leave some food out if she wanted to catch him. Even getting a huge dog from the SPCA didn't help in finding out where her &quot;ghost&quot; was hiding. Her dog (Ghost) was barking and agitated one evening. When she let him out, he took off across the field. Charlie grabbed her shotgun and followed in her jeep. She found a man being beaten by a group of older teens. He was making no move to defend himself. She fired off a blast and ordered the group off her property. Whenshe went to help the man get to his feet, it was none other then the drifter from the truck stop, all 6'7&quot; of him. So this was her ghost! <br />What a terrific story, this reviewer's first from this wonderful author. The reader is hooked from the very beginning. The main female character is strong, emotionally and physically. Drew is truly formidable physically, yet you know he would never hurt anyone or anything that was weaker or smaller than himself. The sex scenes were sizzling. The descriptions of jail life were very realistic, almost as if the author had first hand knowledge! The secondary characters were interesting enough that you were left hoping there will be a follow on story. This book is definitely a keeper and I would recommend it to anyone.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	RT0NPPFQVU7XS	1843605724	365414490	Madam Charlie	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Nicole La Folle<br />Charlotte is the widow of the 5th Earl of Claverton. When the papers report she died in the fire that killed him, she doesn?t correct them; after all she believes she caused the fire. Charlotte obtains ownership of the bordello at #14 Beaulieu Crescent and becomes Madam Charlie. Only her faithful maid, Matty, knows her history. <br />Colonel Jordan Lyndhurst, 6th Earl of Claverten, inherited the title from a distant relation. He had been recently injured in battle when he received the news and returned to England to assume the title. Now, a year later, his back injury still troubles him. The only thing that helps when the pain becomes severe is a massage, where the masseuse walks on his back. When the oriental servant of a friend who had always given him his massage is no longer available, he seeks someone else to perform this specialized craft. <br />This leads Jordan to the Crescent where one of Madam Charlie?s girls is rumored to give the unusual massage he needs. But Madam Charlie informs him Kiku-San is no longer there and instead Madam Charlie will perform the massage. Jordan is intrigued by the Madam and becomes curious when he discovers very little is known about her. When he happens upon her chastising Dr. Ponsby for his mistreatment of one of his patients, and Madam Charlie is injured in the scuffle, he seizes the opportunity to get to know the mysterious Madam better. <br />Madam Charlie is a well-written story of early 19th century England. Ms. Kelly has chosen to explore the time period with out resorting to the parties that normally permeate stories of this era. Both Charlie and Jordan are interesting characters with a history that must be explored. The willingness of these two lovers to work together and sacrifice is what the true romantic novel is all about. Madam Charlie is a well-plotted story with rich characterization. The many love scenes are interesting and exciting. Once again Ms. Kelly has penned a winner.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	R23BKQ83EPXHDN	1843605015	805350504	Captive Dreams	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Amy L. Turpin<br />Celeste and Corinne Carson are writers of science and romantic fiction, respectively. Both have created alpha type male heroes and both feel a special connection to their characters. What they don't realize is that their writings are coming true in their hero's universes, a fact they are about to find out in a most alarming way . . . <br />Jarred Varrain and Mykhayl Rhodyonovich are the tormented characters of the sisters' fantasies. Trapped in a kind of limbo when the girls are brainstorming, and then helpless to change the eventual outcome once back in their own lives, the men have had enough! For ten long years they have had to watch as their lives are plotted and executed with malicious precision, and now the men finally have a chance to take revenge on their tormentors by kidnapping the women and whisking them off to their individual universes. <br />Mykhayl's dimension is one of magic and fantasy. As he spirits Corinne away from her home, he can think of nothing other than punishing her for his years of suffering. After completely consuming her, he finds she has possession of him as well, a fact that does not sit well with him. He knows her for the sorceress she is, and after the things done to him by another sorceress, he can not trust her--especially with his heart. Corinne knows he can never love her, but the least she can do is to use her newfound skills to reverse the damage she caused in one of her stories. But will her courage and determination be enough to give this mighty king the queen he needs and the son he deserves? <br />Jarred's universe is one of science and technology. When Celeste finds herself face to face with the gadgets she invented, the reality is more alarming than she could have ever imagined. Especially her ultimate creation--the brawny, sexy, cyborg/human glaring down at her with malice. She knows him as well as he knows himself and when the look she has described a thousand times, the one associated with that of the executioner-Jarred, she is more terrified than she can ever remember being. His intentions, however, are not as grim as her impending death, but he will use her then throw her away . . . so to speak. The sex they share is unlike either of them has ever experienced. Just when it seems Jarred's icy exterior is melting in Celeste's favor, her special powers are revealed to him. He realizes then that she has kept this secret from him for almost the entire time of her stay with him. Knowing Jarred's life will soon be jeopardized, Celeste is determined to keep him from harm--knowing he will never love her. But the danger comes from the most unexpected source and it's up to Celeste to neutralize the threat before it's too late. <br />Two fabulously written tales, two fabulously written romances! This anthology is written with humor, imagination and a generous amount of love. The beginning grasps the reader's attention immediately and the ending is in no way predictable, but perfectly logical. All the parts in between--well, you'll just have to read it for yourself!	2003-10-09
US	34844779	R2XG2GDZZYZWJT	1843606216	654407169	Merlin's Kiss	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Nicole La Folle<br />Brieana had gone for a walk in the moonlight with Arthur, when she is forced to defend herself against the unwanted attentions of DeLacy. The promised couple flee the scene and coming upon a sword sticking out of a boulder, Brieana pulls it out and passes it to Arthur so he can defend them against DeLacy. When DeLacy arrives in the clearing, he immediately recognizes Excalibur and hails Arthur as King. Arthur, not being an idiot, quickly agrees that he has pulled the sword from the stone and is now the rightful King of the Britons. Brieana attempts to protest but she is stopped by Merlin. He tells her that the Britons aren't ready for a female leader. Realizing he has wronged Brieana, Merlin places her within the Rock of the Ages to be released when the world is ready for a female ruler and a man matching her in strength, honesty, power and loyalty - the virtues that make a leader great - touches the stone. <br />Kerian chased a purple drack into the mountains above his castle of Mirage. The purple lizard had stolen and eaten some of Kerian's chums. Kerian follows the drack into a cave and falls into a pit. When the drack taunts him and he responds, the drack is stunned to realize the man he has stolen from and trapped is Kerian - the only man in the Light Isles who can hear the drack. When Kerian attempts to climb out of the hole, the rock rumbles and opens up, spitting out a naked woman. Wrapping her in his war vest Kieran orders the drack to carry them back to Mirage, where he can properly tend to the woman. <br />Merlin's Kiss is a fun story that will make you both laugh and cry. Many of the traditional Arthurian legend characters are present, but not always as you would expect them to be. From the distant past to the far off future, this story takes you on a journey of discovery. Brieana does not fit into the time in which she was born, but luckily Merlin can send her to the time where she belongs. Kerian is a strong leader of many warriors, both male and female - he is just the right man for Brieana. Once again Ms. Burke has delivered an awesome tale sure to give the readers many hours of entertainment. I hope she will soon take us on another adventure to the Light Isles.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	R2QKKSXD2EGMR0	1843605627	120574902	Fantasy Fix (Fixed, Book 1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Nicole La Folle<br />Regina and her four girlfriends get together every other week for a girl's night. They have a game they play they call the fantasy fix. Everyone has come up with their five most erotic fantasies. In turn, the four whose fantasy it wasn't would brainstorm available guys and see to it that the fantasy is fulfilled for the fifth. Everyone has had two fantasies fulfilled in this manner, except Regina. She was in a long-term relationship at the time the game started, and so had been exempt from participating. However, she broke up with her former fiancé when she found him having sex with his secretary, so now her four girlfriends say it's time for her to get her fix. She will be allowed two at once, since she is behind everyone else. <br />Regina doesn't want to participate, but her friends pressure her into writing down five fantasies from which to draw two. Regina decides to be clever and come up with impossible to fulfill fantasies. She succeeds with four of them but, pressed for time, she finally has to use a real fantasy for the fifth. When her friends draw two fantasies for her, being seduced by a vampire and being tied up and dominated sexually are the ones drawn. Regina thinks she is off the hook, because where are her friends going to find a vampire, but one of them mentions a club where there is a monthly vampire ball for vampire wannabes and her belief that Regina would never give her friends an impossible task. So arrangements are made for them all to attend the next vampire ball, and for Regina to get her fix. <br />Dmitri Vidame is a vampire. He is attending the vampire ball because the council is concerned that young vampires are using the ball to procure their prey. This could be dangerous to all preternatural creatures, because it could lead to exposure. Dmitri doesn't see any vampires at the ball, but he does see Regina. He is struck by her appearance and enters her mind to see what she is doing there, since she doesn't fit in with the rest of the crowd. Using limited mind manipulation, Dmitri gets Regina to take him home with her and then proceeds to fulfill both of her fantasies. But will Regina's friends accept her choosing her own man instead of the one they had picked out for her? <br />Fantasy Fix is a fun read with lots of interesting twists to old themes. Regina is a modern woman with a very large independent streak. Dmitri is an old fashioned guy who wants to take care of his woman, but who is also willing to let her have her way. All the characters in this book are well developed and I can see sequels being written for most of them. Overall, this is a new and interesting plot taken to fascinating levels by the addition of paranormal elements. I look forward to Ms. Warren's next release, I just hope I don't have to wait too long.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	RRQHRNLL0LYVI	1843605686	840830137	The Arrival (Atlantean's Quest, Book 1)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Nicole La Folle<br />Eros, King of the Atlanteans, has been told by the Seer that his mate is coming. She will be in great danger when she arrives. Once she arrives, he must not join with her until after the mating ceremony. Once they have successfully joined, she will bear a child who, even while in the womb, will activate the transport that will take his people back to their home world. <br />Rachel has dreamed of a well-endowed and handsome man for a long time, but it has been over two years since she has had a man in her bed. She wants to get ahead in her job at the museum and jumps at the chance to go on an expedition into the South American rain forest. Her two best friends try to talk her out of it, but she is determined to go. <br />Rachel arrives in South America to find the expedition has already suffered from sabotage and that at least one of the native guides has already lost his life. That evening when she goes to a pool near camp to bathe, she feels like she is being watched and decides to put on a show for whatever guide is spying on her. <br />Eros watches the woman he knows is destined to be his bring herself to climax. It is almost more than he can handle, but he restrains himself from joining her beside the pool. That night, after the camp is asleep, he slips into her tent and uses his extraordinary oral talents to pleasure the woman that will be his mate. <br />Atlantean's Quest: The Arrival is a sexy romp through the South American rain forest. Rachel is a woman finally learning how to go for what she wants. Eros is a hero who definitely fits his name and could easily be a sex god. Together, these two characters steam up the already steamy jungle setting. This is a fun paranormal adventure story with a touch of mystery giving it a singular flavor. The Atlantean culture created by Ms. Summers is wonderfully sexy and full of many interesting and unique traditions. I await with eager anticipation the next book in this series.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	RRI5NJKEYLB6U	1843605740	194238608	Naughty or Nice	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Stars Review	by Susan Tam<br />Jingle's Belle by Lani Aames <br />Jingle has had a tough time at the North Pole. He doesn't quite fit in with the rest of the elves, starting with his name and his size. His real name is Alexander, but he renamed himself Jingle, since he didn't want a human name. He is smaller than the other elves and none of the uniforms fit him correctly. Jingle is asked by Santa to visit Belinda Cooper. Belinda has a problem with her Christmas spirit and Jingle is the elf who will help her with it! Belinda finds herself with an elf who is handsome and handy -- what more can a girl want for Christmas! This was a sweet story about two people who help each other find their place in the world. <br />Twelve Nights of Christmas by Treva Harte <br />Marigold Adams, a recent divorcee is stuck up a tree. She thought she saw an exotic bird up there and she was going to save it, but alas, it was only a plastic pink flamingo! Rome Tyler comes along and rescues her but he falls off the ladder! They are stuck together during a snowstorm and it falls on Mari to nurse him back to health. While she is nursing him, he confides to Mari about his problem. Rome is having &quot;performance anxiety&quot; problems and Mari agrees to help him with it. This story simmered with sexual tension. <br />Santa Claws, a Wyndham Werewolf Story by Mary Janice Davidson <br />Alex Kilcurt, Laird of Kilcurt Holding is in the United States to pay his respects to the newborn daughter of pack leader, Michael and his wife. He wishes for what Michael has -- a wife and family. He walks down the street in Boston and picks up a whiff of a woman's scent. He has picked up the smell of his woman, his mate. Giselle Smith is dressed as Santa and she is busy ringing her bell for donations. Alex promptly throws a wad of dollars in her kettle and asks her to lunch. This was a great story! If you have read her previous books, Ms. Davidson has a wry sense of humor and it comes through in her writings. I have read all her Wyndham werewolf stories and look forward to the next one! <br />This was a fun book and an easy read. All three stories were enjoyable. The Christmas holidays were firmly entwined into the three stories. The characters were well developed for such short stories. It is a great book to curl up with on those cold, snowy winter nights!	2003-10-09
US	34844779	R3VPSKLTC7ZYFU	184360406X	739063808	Wicked Wishes	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Amy L. Turpin<br />One little wish. Who knew one little wish could change life in the most profound ways! For three different women, their wish is about to become reality. For the men they love, well, they just get swept along for the ride! <br />Craven has been named Lord of Carnality, Master of Fleshly Desires, Prince of Pleasurable Pain, Dark Master of Desire . . . King of the Inflated Ego. This is one Fairy that is about to get just what he deserves! Bored with his carnal life style, tired of the endless orgies and feeling he is missing something exciting and essential in his life, Craven finds new temptation in a human woman. Nola is about to be trapped in a marriage she really does not want. Her only wish is to know true passion before she ties herself to a man and Craven is only too happy to grant her wish. As he leads Nola into a world full of sexual excitement and unusual people, he finds himself growing strangely . . . fond . . . of this human. She excites him as he has never been before! Too bad the Fairy Queen wants her gone from their realm forever. Too bad this luscious temptress only wants him for sex! With bets on the outcome going on between &quot;Love&quot; and &quot;Hate,&quot; Craven finds he must make some decisions that may prove to be the ones that determine his and Nola's future happiness. Enter the world of the Fey in Craven's Downfall. <br />Tiffany has never had much luck with birthdays. Something strange always happens. But wishes are an essential part of birthdays! What harm could one little wish do? Anyway, she only has one wish she really wants, Zak. If she had him, she'd have all the excitement her ordinary, boring life needed. The only thing is, Zak has been her best friend for six years. If he hasn't noticed her by now, he is probably not going to. Closing her eyes and wishing with all her might, she finds that no sooner is her wish voiced than Zak is rushing into the little diner and almost literally sweeping her off her feet! Announcing impending danger and something about his being her &quot;promised,&quot; he kisses her and drags her off. Tiffany's little world is suddenly turned upside down with the revelations Zak imparts to her. And as for the whole &quot;promised&quot; business, well it seems that by stating such in front of witnesses, Zak has married her on her lunch break! A Wish A Way is sure to leave you breathless. <br />Sarai and her children have been through enough at the hands of a man. Her husband and the children's father had brutalized them on many occasions until she was finally forced to kill him for fear of him killing her children. The last thing she wants or needs is to be under the will of another man. Unfortunately her daughter, Mali, believes in the power of wishes. Her wish? Why, she wants a daddy, and Jax would make an excellent daddy. Jax is convinced that even though she is not from his home planet, Sarai is his lifemate. He had made love to her the first night they met and in the eyes of his people, that was enough. As far as he is concerned, she is his. Now he just has to convince her that she wants him in her life and in the lives of her children. Thinking he can use her body's response against her and make her want him through sex, he feels he is making steady headway. Until she announces to him, quite loudly, that she is only using him for his body and has no desire for him in her life . . . ever! Hurt, confused and a little angry, Jax must come up with a plan and fast! There is no way he is going to let her get away from him, but he doesn't want her resentment either. He has to convince her that he wants a partnership with her, that he doesn't want to control her. That he only wants her love. Serendipity is sure to warm your heart and fire your desire. <br />Three little wishes, three magnificent tales! This is an extremely well put together anthology and the authors compliment each other very nicely. All are very romantic, all are very hot! If you likefantasy and science fiction blended with love, you're sure to delight in the anthology known as Wicked Wishes. And OH how wicked . . .	2003-10-09
US	34844779	RV52RFKLKSIWZ	1843606143	612388176	Marly's Choice	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Diana<br />To save her daughter from an abusive stepfather, Annie entrusts twelve-year-old Marly's care to Joe August and his three sons, Cade, Brock and Sam. Now eight years later, Marly no longer sees Cade as the person who helped raise her, but as the man she loves. <br />As Marly returns from college for Joe August's funeral, she realizes this is her chance to prove her love for Cade and make him realize she is no longer a little girl. She has heard rumors about his sexual escapades and will do whatever necessary to prove she is woman enough for him. <br />Marly is not the only one who has had a hard childhood. Cade and his brothers have secrets of their own and Cade fears Marly will never be able to handle them once she knows. He would rather keep her as a friend than lose her forever. <br />As the tensions rise between Marly and Cade, little accidents begin to happen. Cade and Marly soon realize their worst nightmare is back and going to do what it takes to keep them apart. <br />This is only my second book from Ellora's Cave and the first by this author. The story between Cade and Marly had a great build up and lots of sexual tension, and the scenes once they were together were very hot. I would definitely read another book by Lora Leigh.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	RX9ZFDIXHG2OQ	097243772X	818085619	Oath of Challenge - Conquering Kate	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Shadoe Simmons<br />Conquering Kate. Can Tair da'Kamon do it? Can he meet the Challenge Oath she has chosen, and convince her to allow him to take her as he deems it his right to have her? <br />Can Kate actually challenge this tall, fierce warrior and expect to walk away unscathed, her body not craving his to the point that nothing else will matter but his touch, and the tempestuous union of their bodies? <br />She's sure she can. She's tough, and smart, a barracuda lawyer with a shark attack attitude that she's certain will leave the arrogant warrior standing in amazed confusion. <br />But Kate hadn't counted on Tairs own arrogance, or the sensual delights to be found in his arms, and in his bed. The Oath of Challenge has given Tair the right to tempt her, in whatever sexual manner he chooses. To find her greatest sexual fantasies, which isn't hard for a psychic such as himself, and to fulfill them to the furthest degree. <br />And Tair will do just that. He will give Kate what no other man has been able to. Her hottest fantasies, her most erotic dreams will no longer be her private property. They are now, at the sole discretion of her pact mate, open for fulfillment. And there is no other man better able to fulfill them. <br />Ms. Chance has done it again. Though you would think the tone of the story would be similar to that of the first novel of this series, you find that just the opposite is true. In Oath of Challenge, the heroine does not give in willingly to the sexual temptations of her pact mate. She will tempt him instead. Draw him to the point of gasping, desperate need as she revels in his touch, and the sensual satisfactions to be found in him, yet refuses the ultimate union. Her challenge. He can touch her however he pleases, bring her to satisfaction in a million different ways, but she will withhold that final, needed conclusion. For if she loses, she has no choice. She will then be his pledge mate, bound to him for all time, unable to return to the life she has been taken from. <br />But Tair is not a man who will be easily beaten. He knows the secrets of her body, the fantasies that fire her blood, and he will not play fair. <br />Oath of Challenge has exceeded my expectations of this second book, and flung my preconceived notions out the door. Tair is just as determined as Kate, and when these two touch, sparks fly, flames erupt, and the sensual explosions fill the air with heated moans and desperate cries. <br />Turn on the A/C, and prepare yourself for an erotic adventure unlike any other. Oath of Challenge is a book you won't just read, but will come back to again and again for the sheer pleasure of the heat that emanates from the pages, and the fulfilling fantasy of man willing to meet any challenge, and to triumph in the face of a pride which is not match for the erotic needs he inspires.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	RFNACK4K7ZVPN	1843606224	394671221	The Slayer	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 Star Review	by Nicole La Folle<br />Kye wants revenge on Balthazar for the death of his family and for making him what he is today, not human anymore, but not a vampire either. He has trained himself in a mishmash of fighting styles, combining many different martial arts with street fighting. He gets his information on Balthazar's movements from Angel, a former victim of Balthazar who wants revenge for the loss of her daughter. Kye dresses to kill and heads to the nightclub where he has been told Balthazar will be that evening. <br />While waiting for Balthazar to show up Kye is approached by a woman who thinks he is Balthazar. She threatens him and attacks him, trying to kill him. The club patrons think a movie is being filmed and just enjoy the show. When the real Balthazar shows up, Kye switches his attack from the woman to Balthazar's bodyguards, but Balthazar himself gets away. Tali was raised by the vampire Mari, who had been one of Balthazar's women, all of whom are sex slaves with different talents, until she escaped. Tali and Mari are out to destroy Balthazar. When her attack on Kye is interrupted by Balthazar's arrival, Tali watches Kye in action and then leaves. She is attracted to this mysterious man dressed in leather who knows how to fight as well or better than she does. But who is he and can she trust him? <br />Ms. Burke has created an absorbing tale of revenge in The Slayer that doesn't have the blood and gore the title might lead you to believe it has. Balthazar is a villain that is easy to hate, as there could be no good motive for any of his actions. Kye and Tali are both strong characters who are fighting against the evil represented by Balthazar. Ms. Burke has woven pertinent song lyrics throughout the book to emphasize various actions and settings, which adds an interesting touch to the story. Once again, Ms. Burke has delivered a story you won't want to put down until you finish it.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	R3JR6GXXEVLBZ4	1843606208	328878874	Redemption	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Terie Lou<br />The days are getting colder and the nights are getting longer. What a perfect time to turn off the TV, grab your favorite hot &quot;toddy&quot; and settle in for a great read. Might I recommend you pick up Redemption by Shelby Morgen? Although this e-book has been out for a few years, previously published as Charlie's Way, I'm afraid this jewel has been greatly overlooked. It has now found a new home at Ellora's Cave and is well worth reading. <br />Disillusioned from her husband cheating on her in their own bed, Charlie Giles, a &quot;Company&quot; agent, loses it, shoots her service revolver at the copulating couple and winds up incarcerated. She then finds her way to a place to heal her spirit and forge a new path for her life, building a horse farm in the wilds of West Virginia. Drew Bailey, recently paroled after being falsely imprisoned for a horrendous crime he did not commit also seeks out a familiar place to find solace. It was inevitable that these two forces would collide, but what sparks they give out in the process. <br />&quot;She was hot and slick and wet and felt so ready. His body was tensed for action, but he forced himself to move deliberately. His mouth sought hers again, and he backed her against the wall taking his time, kissing her thoroughly, forcing himself to be content for the moment just to be inside of her. &quot; I had plans.&quot; Drew managed when he came up for air. &quot; I was going to seduce you properly. Women are supposed to want foreplay. It says so in all the best books.&quot; <br />Charlie shivered as his teeth nipped her earlobe. &quot;Foreplay is all about being in the mood,&quot; she rationalized.&quot; I watch you walk across a room, and I'm in the mood. All I have to do is listen to the sound of your voice, or see you standing there in the doorway, and I want you.&quot; That's good,&quot; Drew assured her,&quot; Because I want you, in every way a man can want a woman. I want to touch you and love you and hold you and never let you go.&quot; <br />&quot;You better take me over to the bed. There are a whole lot of places I want you to touch me that you can't reach right now.&quot; <br />Her hands tangled in his hair. &quot;Oh God,&quot; Drew groaned,&quot; You find places on me I didn't even know were crying out to be touched.&quot;...... <br />Not only is the sex hot in this book and just right to keep you warm through the evening hours, the suspense is razor sharp and guaranteed to keep you up all night long trying to figure all the twists and turns this novel takes. I could not put it down. <br />I found this book to be an unexpected treasure, as I am sure you will too. If you like your stories hot with a bit of suspense, you will want to add Redemption to your to buy list. I'm betting once you read this gem, it will find its way to your &quot;keeper&quot; shelf like it did mine.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	R3MLCGBY5MNWQC	1843606216	654407169	Merlin's Kiss	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 Star Review	by Amy L. Turpin<br />Brieana is the true puller of the sword in the stone. Unfortunately, Britton is not ready for a Queen. Since Author was handy at the time, Merlin elected to use him as King rather than shake up the status quo. And we ALL know how THAT turned out. Knowing he has cheated Brieana out of her destiny, he puts her to sleep in a rock wall until such time as the Britons are ready for a Queen and a man with ability and heart to match her own frees her from his spell. <br />Kerian was the fiercest warrior of his time. He ruled by might, but ruled justly and compassionately. He was not King of the Britons, but rather of his own land. He also had a pesky drack problem. The young drack had broken the treaty his people held with the drackoon and Kerian was not happy to say the least. But finding the naked woman in the wall of the mountain seemed to take his mind off that a bit. <br />The two quickly realize their attraction to each other can not be ignored, but neither can the purple drack that had taken to Brieana. Kerian sets out with Brieana to return the drack safely home. But fate has a way of returning play at the most unexpected times and the drack, Zorn, was not meant to see his home again. With trouble brewing within Kerian's home and Kerian's own step-mother at the heart of it, Kerian and Breiana need all the help they can get. And they find it. In the guise of the enemy itself. <br />Personally, I'm a lover of fantasy. This book is romantica, but it is also pure fantasy! I LOVED this story! The author used imaginative creatures and legends to fill the pages of one exciting book. If fantasy is your thing, you've gotta read this.	2003-10-09
US	34844779	R2U8CVW30I1W7U	1573430080	995121157	Isn't It Romantic?	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Susan Tam<br />Katrine Summerville is a romance writer and Trey Westmoreland is a book critic. They have been battling for years ever since he wrote a scathing column about the romance genre. Katrine feels this review cost her in book sales and more importantly, demeaned her talent. They are tricked into attending an award ceremony together by their respective friend. They are both using aliases and they each assume the other to be a &quot;gigolo&quot; and &quot;hooker&quot; so when the winners are announced - they are astonished at who they are with. The sparks fly as they both accept their awards. They both feel betrayed by their friend. Trey feels the &quot;romance&quot; genre has warped women's ideas of men! His wife divorced him seeking a more dynamic romantic partner - one that appears on the pages of romance novels. He writes another little ditty for his column that offends Katrine regarding the awards dinner. He had to financially compensate Katrine for the prior column he had written and his editor is hoping to avoid another occurrence. The two combatants are lassoed into working together. They are assigned by Trey's boss and her editor to work on a newspaper feature on romance. This involves a month of dating where each will write from their perspective about them. The newspaper will fund all these dates and the publisher is hoping to raise his circulation numbers. Trey goes to great lengths to arrange terrible dates. Katrine must find a positive aspect for each of them and she does!  <br />This was a laugh out funny book!!! The dates are hilarious!! The verbal sparring between the Kat and Trey is great! These were two very likable characters with strong personalities. They are each determined to win. The sparkling dialogue sets this book apart from all others. The plot line is fast paced. I couldn't stop reading until I reached the very end. The secondary characters add so much to the book especially Katrine's daughter who is so much wiser than her 11years. The author has written a truly enjoyable book!! I highly recommend it to all who enjoy the &quot;romance&quot; genre and even those who don't! I look forward to reading her next book!	2003-10-08
US	34844779	R3K7LPNYFC7RKR	1591050367	386828488	An American Redneck in Hong Kong	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Timeless Tales 3 stars review	by Brett Scott<br />I'd like to meet Michael LaRocca- he seems like a great person. I admire those who turn adversity into something positive. After losing two very important people in his life, his mother and his brother, Michael can still see humor in the world. I selected American Redneck in Hong Kong to review because the title indicated it would be something humorous. I wasn't disappointed, but I found that the vignettes, or short stories, as Michael prefers to call them were more entertaining than funny. I was delighted to see that someone else survived bad luck with pets, and I developed an immediate admiration for Michael because he continued to love and provide homes for them. I never knew I would read a book that would give me so much information about boar masturbation and sow fertilization, nor did I ever imagine knowing so much about the thickness of the embryonic sac of a colt, let alone what caused it. Michael has certainly had a well-rounded life, and I'm still amazed that someone who held a boar's penis in his hands on a daily basis ended up teaching conversational English in China.  Michael Larocca taught me a lot in his stories... I learned that I don't want to go to Hong Kong because I most likely wouldn't be able to find clothes (too fat) or shoes (big feet) to fit me, and I wouldn't be very good at squatting over a hole in the floor rather than sitting on a toilet. I'm not a very good passenger either, so I need to be where I can drive my own car. Most of all, I learned, I'm happy right here in America, but I applaud Michael for living out his dreams abroad. An American Redneck in Hong Kong is an entertaining read and I may even look for his first book to give me some more background on this seemingly likeable individual.	2003-10-08
US	34844779	R2Z792J71MLO9K	1896944000	211360935	Daughter of Dragons	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Vikky Bertling<br />Because of her magical abilities, Lathwi has been outcast by her village and sacrificed to a dragon.  Fate, however, has something else in store for her, instead of being eaten; she is adopted and raised as a dragon.  Later, as a woman, Lathwi is forced to leave her mother's cave and sets out into the world to find her fortune.  As she follows her quest, Lathwi becomes a sorceress' apprentice, in the strangest world of all, a human city.  She also learns that an ancient evil is trying to rise again to overcome the dragons.<br />In this marvelous novel we follow Lathwi's travels as she learns what it is to be human, yet strives to maintain her dragon identity.  Lathwi's attitude towards humans and things that doesn't concern her is funny and infuriating at the same time!  Kathleen Nelson has created a strong and intriguing female character in a primarily male dominated genre.  <br />While the action is, at times, a bit graphic, it is always captivating.  This was a wonderfully written novel that I was hard pressed to ever put down. I will definitely be looking towards the sequel as my next read.	2003-09-29
US	34844779	R13XLC782K2WPB	1931742073	815811671	Be My Valentine	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 3 stars review	by Vikky Bertling<br />Dave Barnett's life is in upheaval. He's been fired, gotten drunk and his house has been ransacked. Tyler Spencer's life isn't going to well either. A college student, she's been dumped the day before Valentine's Day and lost her apartment. Dave, in his drunkenness, gets Tyler fired from her job and she decides to follow him home until he pays her for the weeks lost wages. They find his treasures from a recent dive, a mysterious ring and some Spanish coins. Dave and Tyler decide to track the history of the ring. After a visit with his grandfather, Dave and Tyler decide to go back to the where he had found it in the ocean. It was a perfect day when they left, however; soon they are caught up in a bad storm and wake up in the wrong year. They have to give the ring to its rightful owner and find a way back to their time before a disaster strikes. <br />Ms. Beckenham does a wonderful job with the history in her story and she paints a realistic scene of Port Royal, Jamaica 1692. The reader can practically smell the salt of the ocean and see the crowded docks and ships in the harbor during the golden age of pirates. However, more time should have been spent in developing the initial relationship between Dave and Tyler and less time in the re-hashing of past happenings between all of the characters in this book.<br />The antagonistic way in which Dave and Tyler met does not lend itself to the ease of companionship these two seem to share. Tyler goes home with a strange man whose home seams to be a pigsty. Dave wakes up in the morning to a virtual stranger in his home. After one question about the mess in his house, Dave believes Tyler was innocent. I just didn't believe the easy relationship of the two people who never even knew each other's names until approximately 12 hours after meeting.<br />The flow of time was also a problem for me. At one point the reader is left feeling that Dave and Tyler were prisoners aboard a pirate ship for both a long time and yet only a few days. The same feeling happens during their stay on the island they are taken to and sold into slavery.<br />While the story is disjointed and certain actions were down right unbelievable, the history was vivid and interesting. The romance and the characters themselves, left a lot to be desired. These elements detract from the enjoyment of a potentially good story.	2003-09-29
US	34844779	R28U3DTM59VXC9	1843605562	722962300	Winter Pleasures	Books	4	9	10	N	N	4 stars from Timeless Tales	by TT reviewer Nicole La Folle<BR>Sienne has known she would be a sex slave since she was five years old and Cyrus' soldiers killed her family and took her to live with her foster parents.  <br />For three years, since she turned eighteen, she has been trained to please men, but has taken no pleasure in it.  <br />Now she has new orders from Cyrus.  He will give her to Lord Marken of Nordan and for three months she will pleasure him and learn the military and political secrets of the northern country from him.  She will then supply the information to Cyrus or he will kill her and her foster family.<br />When Marken is presented with the beautiful sex slave he accepts her, but has only one thought - to set her free. He is offended by the very thought of keeping a woman as a slave.  Women are to be cherished as life givers and shared among all the men to ensure fertility,not beaten and hurt, kept only for a man's pleasure.  <br />After Cyrus leaves, Marken attempts to give her money and a horse to flee to a neighboring country, but Sienne cries and pleads to be allowed to remain with him.  He can't turn her out into the bitter Nordan winter so he tells Sienne that while he will take no unwilling woman to his bed, even though she pleasures him more than any other woman ever has, if she is adamant about remaining with him he will allow it. When she insists on staying and serving him in the bedchamber he vows to teach her to take pleasure in a man's touch before the winter is over.<br />Winter Pleasures is a fun and sensual journey.  It shows the clash of two cultures, the god worshipping south and the goddess worshipping north, and demonstrates how such simple differences can lead to extremely different cultures. Sienne must struggle to adapt to her new environment, one which celebrates womanhood and love play, when she has been trained from a young age to expect only pain and discomfort from men <BR>and that sex is not just her purpose in life, but something dirty andkept behind closed doors. Overall this is a very interesting story that is sure to keep you entertained and the good news is, it has a sequel due out in a few months.	2003-09-25
US	34844779	R18N2GX0H0R5OY	0972437770	691190199	Ellora's Cave Presents Enslaved: Trek Mi Q'an, Book 3	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />Marty Matthews is the stereotypical feminist of the 1960's. Ok, she actually IS a 1960's feminist, pantyhose flinging and bra burning included. When she is somehow catapulted through dimensions and time, she finds herself in a place where male-dominated societies don't exist. GROOVY! Well, except in other areas of the galaxy, where there tend to be some seriously huge alpha-type males. When the village where she lives with her new feminist-from-hell friends is approached by a group of some of the males in question, she unwisely takes to taunting them with crude gestures and insulting names. Not very smart when you stand around five foot six and the leader of these warriors is somewhere in the neighborhood of seven and a half feet tall! Alas, poor Marty sometimes lets her overconfidence get the better of her and soon finds herself within the harem of the pig. Definitely not groovy! <br />Kil Q'an Tal had only intended to approach the women warriors of Wani with the intention of asserting his claim as king of this sector of the galaxy. He had no intention of making war with them for his warriors would never hurt a woman, even in battle. What he did was make war with them simply to gain another bound servant, and a woman who would become the center of his world against his will. For the life of him, he can't figure out why that this woman has him so &quot;bedeviled&quot; when his first encounter with her had her screaming obscenities from the shoulders of a warrior woman from Wani. Wanting her more than anything he has ever experienced, Kil is determined she will be his and his alone--she will never pleasure any of his warriors, as is the custom. Which really should have been a clue. <br />Within the harem, Marty makes a friend who is about to be released from service. Telling her friend about her growing feelings for their master, knowing there can never be anything between a bondservant and the king, Marty convinces Ora to help her escape. Fleeing King Kil doesn't do much good, however, because the unsuspecting Marty is carrying his child. Realizing his mistake, Kil goes on his bride quest. He has already lost one woman he loved before he expressed his feelings, he's not about to do so again. But if he finds her, can she ever forgive him? <br />Kil has been my favorite character from the start of this series and the hunt for his Sacred Mate was everything I hoped it would be! The imagination in introducing so many different women from different walks of current Earth society is brilliant and thus far, Ms. Black has yet to disappoint! Again, this tale is filled with erotic, vivid imagery that is simply dazzling. Undeniably a must-read, unquestionably a keeper! Definitely groovy!	2003-09-14
US	34844779	RET8VCXS7RSS6	1843604507	346120195	The Wildling	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Irene Marshall<br />Arness is a hunter - of wild \\"pets\\". She captures them, starts the taming/training process, then sells them. She has two pets of her own, which she has trained entirely on her own and they help her with the work as well as keeping her sexually happy. <br />The \\"pets\\" are human males and in this time and place, women have all the power. Pets are used for sexual playmates, slaves, and of course, for breeding purposes. Any male children born are raised by the pets and either sold or released into the wild when they are grown. <br />When Arness takes her latest catches to her best customer, Patroness Morgena, a woman who owns and runs a breeding farm, she's asked to stay and break/train a special pet, Adan. Morgena plans to give Adan to her daughter, Sala, when she returns from school, but Adan keeps trying to run away. <br />But when Sala returns from school, she's not what her mother expects. Along with her academic studies, Sala has managed to acquire and read most of an old copy of \\"The Flame and the Flower\\". From this, she deduces that at one time, men were dominant and women mere chattel, sexual objects. While she doesn't want to go that far, she thinks that men and women should be equal, and she refuses to treat men as slaves. <br />When Arness is bushwhacked and taken prisoner by a band of renegade men, a posse of pets, led by Sala, is formed to rescue her. Adan, who has met Arness, though his training has not yet begun, asks to go along. When he promises not to try to escape, he's allowed to join the posse. <br />A magnificent novel. The characters were strong and true to the scenario with very little true violence involved. The descriptions of the terrain in which the \\"pets\\" run wild sounds like the desert land of southwestern America and if this were the kind of desert wildlife that inhabited the area today, I can guarantee that there would be a lot more females hunting. <br />As usual, Treva has outdone herself in this offering for the female mind. She just keeps getting better and one begins to wonder what kind of life she lives outside her books. Whatever it's like, I want some of this kind of life, too. What an artist you are, Treva! You keep them coming and we'll keep reading, dreaming, and sweating. Thank you	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R2Z80OZ499O55I	1843605546	545790003	A Mutual Favor	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Patricia McGrew<br />Orthopedic surgeon Kurt Silverman and Physical therapist Shelly Ware had been best friends since Kurt moved to San Antonio to start a new life. Ever since his bitter divorce his ex-wife has been fighting him for his son's visitation. This time she wants to stop visits because he didn't have a stability home life. With his job he worked long hours and needed someone to be there with his son while he was working. He needs a wife that will understand his dedication to his job. The problem, he just didn't want to fall in love again. <br />Shelly had always thought of Kurt as the perfect man. She has been secretly in love with him, but realizes that if he knew it would destroy their friendship. When Shelly's sister is diagnosed with cervical cancer, she starts reviewing her life. She feels her biological clock is running out. She wants a baby before it's too late. Having no boyfriend, she decides to ask Kurt to be a sperm donator. <br />After Kurt gets over the shock, he decides that this might be the answer to both of their problems. This could be the perfect Mutual Favor. Kurt would have a wife, so he could get his son back and he wouldn't have to worry about emotional entanglements. Shelly would get a child, and experience the passion of conception instead of clinical application. <br />Throw two best friends and one rebellious teenage boy together, then try to make a happy family. Only time will tell if they will both get what they want. Will being best friends be enough or will love come their way? Will the lies the ex-wife told their son stop him from giving Shelly a chance? <br />A Mutual Favor is a modern marriage of convenience story. It's a delightful well written story that will pull at her emotions. I loved the growth of their relationship, it was handled in such a way that the reader is involved with Kurt and Shelly each step of the way. I like the fact that Shelly's character was strong enough to help Kurt when he needs it. I recommend this truly great story and look forward to reading more from Ms. Jacobs.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R2JRT61EUV3C5M	1843604469	416617380	Lucavarious	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Hunter McKenna<br />Dark is a Wolfen female, who runs to Lucavarious (Luca), a Vampesi, to fulfill a promise from her dying parents. A marriage contract has been drawn up between the two factions. Someone is out to stop the marriage and when that fails, Dark becomes the target. Dark is getting to know her husband, helping her people, and learning about the Vampesi people. <br />Luca is 400 years old and Dark is twenty-something. It is interesting to watch his patience with her. Dark, being Wolfen, naturally is in heat. Poor Luca. He gets bruises all over trying to keep up with her in bed, but he's not complaining. Her comment is that Luca is the best in that department, so why wouldn't she go back for more. <br />LUCAVARIOUS is a wonderful story. I started reading it late the first night and was up until 5am, when my eyes started getting blurry, and I could no longer see the screen. I didn't want it put it down. I hope there are men out there with Luca's charisma and humor. There are two lines of Luca's that I love, one being &quot;Your walking vibrator with fangs awaits your every command, Lady&quot;, and the second is... Women were strange creatures and better dealt with on a full stomach, with a clear head, and an owner's manual to figure them out. I think I will put these lines in big bold font on my wall. They made me smile everytime I read them. <br />Ms Burke's one liners and witty segments are priceless. The secondary character of Luca's cousin, Omnubius, has you shaking your head at his antics. I look forward to when we get to see more of cousin Omnubius and BB. <br />Anyone who likes Vampires, Wolves, or just plain romance should get LUCAVARIOUS, you won't be disappointed. I'm looking ahead to reading more by this talented author. LUCAVARIOUS is a keeper.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R2V8TXXHC9V7KO	1843605015	805350504	Captive Dreams	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />Celeste and Corinne Carson are writers of science and romantic fiction, respectively. Both have created alpha type male heroes and both feel a special connection to their characters. What they don't realize is that their writings are coming true in their hero's universes, a fact they are about to find out in a most alarming way . . . <br />Jarred Varrain and Mykhayl Rhodyonovich are the tormented characters of the sisters' fantasies. Trapped in a kind of limbo when the girls are brainstorming, and then helpless to change the eventual outcome once back in their own lives, the men have had enough! For ten long years they have had to watch as their lives are plotted and executed with malicious precision, and now the men finally have a chance to take revenge on their tormentors by kidnapping the women and whisking them off to their individual universes.<br />Mykhayl's dimension is one of magic and fantasy. As he spirits Corinne away from her home, he can think of nothing other than punishing her for his years of suffering. After completely consuming her, he finds she has possession of him as well, a fact that does not sit well with him. He knows her for the sorceress she is, and after the things done to him by another sorceress, he can not trust her--especially with his heart. Corinne knows he can never love her, but the least she can do is to use her newfound skills to reverse the damage she caused in one of her stories. But will her courage and determination be enough to give this mighty king the queen he needs and the son he deserves?<br />Jarred's universe is one of science and technology. When Celeste finds herself face to face with the gadgets she invented, the reality is more alarming than she could have ever imagined. Especially her ultimate creation--the brawny, sexy, cyborg/human glaring down at her with malice. She knows him as well as he knows himself and when the look she has described a thousand times, the one associated with that of the executioner-Jarred, she is more terrified than she can ever remember being. His intentions, however, are not as grim as her impending death, but he will use her then throw her away . . . so to speak. The sex they share is unlike either of them has ever experienced. Just when it seems Jarred's icy exterior is melting in Celeste's favor, her special powers are revealed to him. He realizes then that she has kept this secret from him for almost the entire time of her stay with him. Knowing Jarred's life will soon be jeopardized, Celeste is determined to keep him from harm--knowing he will never love her. But the danger comes from the most unexpected source and it's up to Celeste to neutralize the threat before it's too late.<br />Two fabulously written tales, two fabulously written romances! This anthology is written with humor, imagination and a generous amount of love. The beginning grasps the reader's attention immediately and the ending is in no way predictable, but perfectly logical. All the parts in between--well, you'll just have to read it for yourself!	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R28T6D1VFCO3DU	1843603683	697730459	Death Row: The Hunter	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Brenda Edde<br />In the sequel to Death Row: The Fugitive, Ms Black has continued the riveting story of Dr. Nellie Kan and Kerick Riley. Kerick has escaped the Kong Penal colony along with his friends Xavier and Elijah; they are living in the jungle with Kerick's brother, Kieran, and his new bride Karen. Nellie was captured by Kerick shortly after his escape and held captive. Kerick had plans to make Nellie his wife, but in his arrogance, didn't tell her. Nellie has escaped Kerick and is on the run, braving the dangerous jungle outside the biosphere. Hiding from not only her own attraction to Kerick, who only wants to protect her, but also from men who will do their best to claim her in this world where women are in very short supply. Nellie is determined to make her way to Xibalba, a mythical haven for women deep in the jungle, where she believes she'll find answers and the time to finish the serum. Kerick, devastated by her escape, is right on her heels, desperate to save her from danger and get her back in his arms where she belongs. Meanwhile Xavier and Elijah are busy planning the downfall of the Hierarchy that kept the three of them in prison for over 15 years. The hunt is on. <br />Ms Black has continued the compelling story of what our future could be like if genetics take a wrong turn. Her lush sensuality adds a special level to the danger stalking Nellie. The twists and turns of her story are well paced. The relationships between Kerick and his brother, friends and Nellie are well developed and better explained in The Hunter. I read thru this story in one sitting and was truly upset when I read the last surprising twist that the end of the book. Now I'm waiting impatiently for the final story of the Death Row trilogy.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R1PLHXKEPCC2K0	1843604027	901985458	Slave Planet	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />Kate Dyson, Ally Egerton, Greta Hanson, Beth Reyes and Jorja Smith are the women who make up the crew of the USS Letanya. There is nothing particularly special about them, unless you count the fact that they are headed from a still male dominated Earth to the distant Galaxy, Andromeda. Well, that, and the fact that there has never been an all female crew allowed to take this challenge. Intergalactic travel is still relatively new, and NASA has been unwilling to risk its newest and most advanced starships to the hands of \\"women drivers\\". Fortunately, this \\"all girl\\" crew is about to make the discovery that will crown all their achievements as astronauts. <br />The quintet enter Andromeda in the Denoba System and make their way to the planet that will change their lives. Everything is going letter-perfect thus far, and their mission is already a huge success back home. Then they make the biggest discovery that has ever been made--humanoid life outside their own planet! Not wanting to make any mistakes, aware that her crew is under close scrutiny by NASA and the rest of Earth, Captain Kate Dyson evaluates and reevaluates their options. She knows that one mistake, no matter how small, will result in NASA labeling all women astronauts as unable to get the job done. With that in mind, she decides that they must land on the planet in order to seal their discovery with as much fact as she possibly can. NASA agrees with her, but she is ordered to stay with the ship instead of accompanying her crew. Their mission is to learn what they can about the primitive culture and then send the data back to Earth. <br />Hindsight being twenty-twenty, Kate really wishes she had that decision back when all her crew is captured, immersing them in a culture where women are slaves and men are their masters. Kate must either wait until help arrives--in maybe a year--or attempt a rescue herself. Either way, her career is all but finished in disgrace. With thatin mind, she resolves herself to find and bring back her companions, no matter what the cost. <BR>The other women, held by a race where the average man is well over six feet tall, must learn to adapt to a life of slavery, even as they plan their escape. And make no mistake, these men are giants . . . in every way! <br />This is a fantastic, sexy tale, filled with strong women who know that they want and are not afraid to take it. In the spirit of Johanna Lindsey's `Warrior's Woman' and Gene Roddenberry's `Star Trek,' J.W. McKenna creates his own futuristic world and fills it with action and eroticism. If you like romance with explicit sex, plus all the wonders that come with hi-tech inventions, this is definitely worth checking out!	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R2NIX2HPTMLPAC	1843604019	891904279	Icy Hot	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Brenda Gill<br />Princess Tayra of Glacid is about to take a calculated gamble. One that will decide the fate of her planet and that of her people. She plans to let Aaxis, Lord Chancellor of Sark, Supreme Ruler of the ringed planet of Aktares and the sworn enemy of her people, take her captive. Already half in love with the Sarkian warrior, her plan is to make the virile Aaxis fall in love with her, marry her, and impregnate her. Only a son will unite their planets and provide peace for their people. Tayra is coming into her fertile cycle and she knows that once Aaxis makes love to her, he will be her mate forever, not able to make love to another woman. But she wants his love and commitment to their marriage, not just those caused by biological details. <br />Aaxis Thrane wants peace between their two planets. There is a terrifying enemy waiting to attack their two worlds and a union between him and Princess Tayra is the only way to achieve his goals. Unaware of Tayra's scheme, he plans to kidnap, seduce, and impregnate her with his son. A son that will rule both planets and unify their worlds. Aaxis knows that he must get Tayra to totally accept him and, before she can conceive, she must be brought to release. He doesn't believe the rumors that after making love to a Glacian woman, a man is hers for life, never desiring another. Both Tayra and Aaxis are determined to win this battle of the sexes. <br />ICY HOT is a beautifully crafted story of galactic intrigue and blazing romance. Aaxis and Tayra are two well-developed and combustible characters, each working toward the same goal, without the other knowing it. How they reach that goal makes for a hot, sensual tale filled with explicitly written love scenes and strong emotion. Readers who like their stories lushly sensual and steamy hot will not be disappointed in ICY HOT.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	RFLR6MPU1FSZA	1591294592	730327599	The Jessica Project	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Billie A Williams<br />THE JESSICA PROJECT proves the old adage that &quot;not all things are as they seem.&quot; It begins with the transformation of the very masculine Jesse Barrett into a woman, at least externally. Kristin Fox, undercover FBI agent and friend of Barrett's ex-girl friend (Lisa Kozella) seduce and drug Barrett. Kozella and Fox turn Barrett's outward appearance into a beguiling female. The women leave him in a motel room with only feminine attire, miles from his home with no money or identification. He must become a woman to survive and get home, as it would not be wise for his employers to discover the very serious, well-respected Cartel head hit man dressed in drag.<BR> <BR>This is only the beginning of the deceit Barrett must ascribe to in order to stay alive as he turns reluctant traitor to the Mexican Drug Cartel. Kristen Fox, self-proclaimed Lesbian, and Jesse Barrett, womanizer, play off each other's strengths and weaknesses with the precision of a Swiss watch. The skilled craftsman/author Thomas Farrell takes us on an ever-twisting roller coaster ride through The Jessica Project giving the reader little breathing room. Jesse/Jessica becomes the key player in the FBI's plan to entrap one of the king pins of the Mexican Drug Cartel. Jessica and Kristin dash from continent to continent, country to country staying one-step a head of the newly installed Cartel head hit man. We admire the creativity of Jesse/Jessica Barrett as he tries to stay alive and free. We admire the intenseness of the characters as they successfully deceive the reader and themselves as to their true identities. <BR> <BR>The suspense is high, the action intense and the romance steamy. I highly recommend this page-turner novel that you will not easily put down until you read the final chapter, even then, the characters will linger. When you finish, you will wish there was more. This could easily become a serial with the strength of the two characters Jesse Barrett and Kristin Fox.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R22178WJNH5HHF	1843605619	295540791	Dream Lover	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />&quot;Life is but a dream.&quot; <br />Dreams can sometimes be used to tell us our innermost secrets if one can interpret them correctly. Sometimes dreams may even be erotic fantasies. Now, imagine you dream of the same man almost every night . . . for twenty-five years. In your dreams, he knows you intimately and you even watch yourself sharing his life and bearing his children. Edwina Johnson has been having such dreams since she was ten. She has grown to love this man in her dreams and no other man will ever measure up to the reality of her fantasy. That is, until the dream walks into her shop. Her dream. In the flesh! <br />Klaus von Bruner has watched Edwina since he first became aware of her genetic research. He recognized it for what it was; brilliant. He knows that she may be the key to the future of his kind. His own future with this woman is a bit more personal. He finds himself completely infatuated with her. Never in all his long years has a woman captured his imagination as completely as Edwina has. The first night he met her in her shop was almost like a dream come true for him. He had kissed her senseless and she had given herself over to his control without a fight at first. He could have taken her the first time there, but he knew to do so would quite possibly be to lose her forever. He wanted her to come to him willingly, without reservation. <br />Edwina knew she could not fight her attraction for the handsome Klaus. Her only hope was to put him off for a while, until she could get to know him outside of the dream. But she was finding out rather quickly that her sweetest dreams and reality were one in the same. <br />When Edwina is threatened by a disgruntled tenant, Klaus knows he must do his best to speed up his plans to marry her. He wants her safe with him . . . for eternity. Before he can take her into his life, she must learn exactly what she is dealing with. Edwina already suspects Klaus is much more than he seems. But sometimes, dreams only hint at reality and that is what the lovely Edwina is about to find out. <br />Forget everything you think you know about vampires. This story creates a refreshing new legend to capture the reader's imagination and makes you look twice at those people insisting upon working the night shift! Ms. Walder tells a wonderful tale that is at once intelligent and engaging. Once you enter this particular dream world, you may find yourself hoping that life IS but a dream .	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R2VHKTAEF2URRP	0972437738	479563169	Seized	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />After the disappearance of her best friend, Geris Jackson spends the next three years of her life obsessing over finding her friend and the men who took her. Well, one of them anyway. No matter how hard she tries not to think about the golden haired giant, her thoughts always seem to wander back to him. Having had so little in her life, Kyra is the only person she has ever let past her icy, hard exterior and she knows she'll do anything to find her friend and bring her home. <br />King Dak Q'an Tal helped his brother to spirit his bride back to their homeland, but he found himself enamored with the &quot;onyx wench&quot; by her side at the claiming. He knew then that he would have to come back for her to &quot;test&quot; her to see if she was his Sacred Mate. When he finally makes his own bride quest, he finds he has no idea how to win this woman's heart, but knows he is willing to do anything to make her love him, even if it means feeling like the fool everyone thinks he is. <BR>To say Geris is a bit overwhelmed by all the changes Dak imposes on her is a galactic understatement. Not only is her dress less than adequate, but she finds the customs of other worlds a bit unsettling, to say the least! As one event after another boggles her senses and her affection for Dak grows even when she feels she has every right to despise him, Geris finally demands her space from Dak and the results are nothing like what she envisioned. That is when she realizes what it truly means to have a Sacred Mate. <br />Not understanding all his culture represents but loving Dak more than she is willing to admit even to herself, Geris is just trying to hang on for the ride until the barbarian who has wed her makes good on his promise of reuniting her with Kyra. Now, if only she can overcome her insecurities regarding relationships and return Dak's heartfelt words of love and find the happiness he seems so desperate for her to find with him. <br />This episode of the Trek Mi Q'an series went a different direction from the other books. For the first time, I felt a true sense of vulnerability with these great warriors. Ms. Black took a character type she has used throughout this series and transformed him into something more human, more &quot;real.&quot; I was totally impressed with the way Geris handled some of the situations she found herself and in the way Dak dealt with Geris in response. The ending left me wanting much more and I can't wait to see where it all ends up! Definitely another winner from Jaid Black!	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R27ZBT7FCRGB3E	0972437746	774056158	No Mercy	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />Rem Q'an Tal has been searching for his Sacred Mate since he was freed from marriage to a woman not meant for him, without success. The mighty warrior is showing the strain of a Trystoni male without a Sacred Mate, the one woman in the entire galaxy who can complete him. The change starting to transform him is frightening, to say the least. <br />As he quests to the fifth dimension, to Earth, he finally has success. Only finding his Sacred Mate is almost enough to push him over the edge to madness. His &quot;wee wife&quot; is the very picture of the Goddess he worships and Rem is enchanted, to say the least. His wife, the almost-spinster Giselle McKenzie, is covered from head to toe in the most bedeviling &quot;spots!&quot; <br />Giselle is not sure what to think about the giant warrior who has claimed her as his wife. The bouts of near-madness he endures are enough to wrench her heart, but, being the attentive if exasperated wife, she soon finds the cure for his ailment. What she cannot deal with is the fascination with her freckles every man she comes across seems to have once she leaves Earth! <br />Although she neither understands everything happening to her or why her feelings for this gentle-giant are growing with every passing minute in his presence, she knows she loves him with her very being. She knows this man would do anything to keep her safe. When he leaves her to go help his brother and best friend fight the very creature he almost became, even though she has her misgivings, she says nothing. She can only hope she has the courage to save his family. <br />For sure, a bewitching sequel to 'The Empress' New Clothes.&quot; I was hooked from the first! Ms. Black's style is endearing and she writes with outstanding humor. There were other stories within this work, some simply touched on enough to get the reader's attention, others more in-depth. Even though I am looking forward to reading those stories, which I'm sure was the author's intention; I found it distracted from the main story somewhat. Overall, this book was an outstanding read and is recommended for the lover of science fiction and romantica, or for anyone simply looking for something as humorous as it is fantastical!	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R2UINH2T7Z8NU9	1590800354	571597715	Music of My Heart	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Tonya Ramagos<br />Adriana Whitaker is a pianist and vocalist for the band &quot;No Limits&quot; whose life is being turned upside down. Secrets that she can't share with anyone are haunting her nights and desires that she can't act upon are darkening her days. When the band gets a week break from their European tour at Thanksgiving, Adriana decides to seize the opportunity for a week of silence and solitude. All the other band members are returning home to be with their families leaving the top three floors of the hotel in Stockholm, Sweden vacant for her to be alone. <br />Luke Preston, lead singer for the band &quot;No Limits&quot;, doesn't have any family to return to for the holiday. But instead of being depressed over his loneliness, he looks forward to a week of rest, privacy and relaxation. After five months of touring, the chance to spend a week alone is simply too good to pass up.<br />When Adriana and Luke find themselves alone for a week, they are shocked, discouraged and unsure how they will manage a week alone together. Although they did their best to keep their presence at the hotel a secret, the press gets wind of it and begins hounding them for interviews. Determined to remain out of the spotlight for the week, Luke takes Adriana to his secluded home in Germany. Now, completely alone together, keeping their developing feelings for one another at bay becomes next to impossible. But Adriana's secret and a promise Luke agreed to with the other male members of the band threatens to prevent them from exploring the promise of more than a business relationship. <br />MUSIC OF MY HEART is a fantastic romance that you hate to see come to an end. The character of Adriana Whitaker possesses just the right mix of strength and venerability making her a heroine that the reader can identify with and feel for. Luke Preston is the kind of hero every woman wishes she could find in real life. With a distinct writing style that brings the pages to life, author DanaElian has created a romance novel you won't want to miss. Highly recommended.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R2KR78WQQ80P6J	1843603675	942755788	Death Row: The Fugitive	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Brenda Edde<br />Altun Ha, former Belize 2249 AD <BR>Kong Penal Colony <br />Kerick Riley, the infamous Dr. Margaret Riley's son, has been in prison at the Kong Penal colony for 15 years, 7 months, 3 weeks and 5 days. Today was to be his execution day. His mother, however, taught him to control his mind and his body, and he learned his lessons well. He's been planning his escape for a long time and he won't be dying today. Kerik and his fellow prisoners and assassins, Elija and Xavier, will be escaping the mighty Kong prison instead of dying. Then they'll find out who really killed his mother and justice will be done. <br />Dr. Nellie Kan is a rarity in these times, an unclaimed female. Nellie is a scientist working to find a serum that will reverse the infection that has caused the mutation of humans into violent and deadly sub-human beings. Unbeknownst to anyone, she has a copy of Dr. Margaret Riley's journal, the famed scientist who had almost completed the serum when she died. Keeping her freedom to work on the serum is a daily battle in this world, where men outnumber the women because of a genetic manipulation started two hundred years ago. Now there are so few women that men have the right to claim any woman they can find, while women are forced to submit to and service any man who can keep her. Nellie plans on being the one to find the serum, help save the sub-humans and, in doing so, insuring her future freedom. <br />Is it irony or fate that leads Kerick to the same biosphere where Nellie works to look for information about his mother's killers? The lack of a woman's touch for 15 years and seeing the luscious Nellie fondled by her former mentor definitely leads to his kidnapping Nellie. <br />The first story in the Death Row trilogy is a fast paced trip through the year 2249, where genetic manipulation has caused major problems for both men and women. The questions regarding the doomed sub-humans and the dangers of living outside the biosphere in the jungle are riveting and bewildering. I was enthralled thru the whole story, trying desperately to figure out when the revelation would be made that both Nellie and Kerick were working towards the same goal. Alas, how that will be worked out has to wait for the sequel, Death Row: The Hunter.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R3ILW68XGEG0HR	1592799515	772965310	An Affair Of Honor	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 3 stars review	by Maddie Amed<br />Raleigh Gilmore, a Colonel in the Confederate Army, has been ordered to Boston to sabotage the relationship between the North and the British and thereby provoke the British into openly entering the war as Confederate Allies. Raleigh ends up working in Boston as a shipping clerk for Lydia Appleton, who manages her family's shipping company. Falling in love, particularly with someone with Unionist loyalties, is not in Raleigh's plans, and could distract him from his mission. The last thing Lydia needs is another man who doubts her abilities, no matter how handsome he may be. Despite themselves, Raleigh and Lydia find themselves giving in to their mutual attraction. But can their relationship survive once Lydia discovers that Raleigh is a Confederate spy, or will his secrets drive them apart?<BR> <BR>An Affair of Honor is a well-written story. The characters are well rounded and three dimensional, even the supporting cast. What I enjoyed best about Ms. Cummings' tale was the care and attention put in getting the historical details right. Lydia in particular, is refreshing as a self-assured capable woman holding her own in a man's world, both willing and able to grasp the opportunities available in a time of intense political and cultural upheaval. Raleigh, too, is believable as a man with hidebound notions of what a woman's place should be, only to have them challenged as he interacts with Lydia and her family. This is a nice, gentle romance about two people, coming to terms with each other, and one man's gallant attempt to do his duty even when it feels like a lost cause. Although the technical aspects of the book can not be faulted, it fails to draw the reader in. You do not feel connected with the characters. You like them, but you do not particularly care what happens to them. As for the storyline dealing with Raleigh's mission, the plot was less than riveting. It is a competently written story but once read, it is quickly forgotten.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R39IVGSSUJ59I7	1843604477	406049163	The Price of Pleasure	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />The first time Calla comes into his presence, Seth has to have her. He can't explain it, but he has to have her and they both take their pleasure in one another. Then she tells him she is married. His first thought is to kill the unknown husband and take the lovely Calla for himself, but that is insane. Wasn't it? Oh well. He'll simply prove to himself that she is only a passing thrill. Isn't she? <br />Born into slavery, Calla knows that if her mistress finds out about the romp with her guest, she will sell her to one of the whorehouses that serve the mining camps. Not a pleasant way to die. When Seth tries to argue against her leaving him, she takes the only out she can think of; she tells him she has a husband. If she known how that one little lie would come back to haunt her, she probably would simply tried to run away from him, but then again, no one cares about a slave. <br />Circumstances change and Calla finds herself entering into a contract with the fierce warrior, but not as Calla the slave girl. She is now Devora, trained pleasure worker. In reality, Calla is simply a runaway slave and she is using the only means at her disposal to get away before she is caught. Their contract sealed, &quot;Devora&quot; and Seth make their way across the quadrant, Calla in search of the man she knows as brother, Seth for a band of rebels that threaten Saurellian controlled space. During the long months aboard Seth's ship, the two grow increasingly fond of one another, but each holds back an essential part of themselves for their own reasons. <br />Picking up the pilgrim/rebel, Calvin and his family, the rift between Calla and Seth grows. Calla is appalled at the way Calvin treats his wife and children and she can't understand why Seth seems to enjoy the man's company. Seth, on the other hand, detests Calvin but knows he holds the key to chasing down the pilgrims and ending the threat to his people. He knows Calla doesn't understand, buthe can't bring himself to confide in her because of the chance that she could even inadvertently betray him and his people. <br />When the inevitable happens and Seth finds out the Devora is the slave girl he bedded at the hostel so many months ago, Calla is terrified he will sell her into slavery again. Afraid to trust him, not so much with her fate as that of Calvin's wife, Sarai, and her two children, Calla steals Seth's ship and leaves him stranded with the promise she'll send help. <br />With so many lies and so much deceit on both their parts, there seems to be no way for them to put the past aside and try to build a future together. That is, until Seth receives some astounding news . . . Suddenly, he sees his lovely Calla in a whole new light and he knows that he will do what ever it takes to get her back. <br />This book has non-stop action from beginning to end. If not on the battlefield, then certainly in the bedroom . . . or where ever the lovers in question happen to be at the time! Each character comes to life in vivid detail and the way Ms. Wylde describes a slave's existence is enough to bring a rush of moisture to anyone's eyes. This is the first in a series of books and once you meet these warriors and the women who love them, you'll not be able to resist learning more. A definite keeper!	2003-09-14
US	34844779	RQJTTGJ9S3MVN	1843604493	650858020	Full Bodied Charmer	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Diana<br />In Full Bodied Charmer, Rick Markham is a blond playboy looking to settle down with his ideal women: a beautiful, slender blonde. He's not into full figured women, but that's all about to change. Jennifer Rose is not your typical heroine; she is, as the title implies, a full figured woman, and although she is a successful author and computer technician, she is looking for true love with her ideal: a tall dark haired man. <br />Jennifer and Rick's first meeting is at a charity bachelor auction, where Jennifer is involved in a bidding war with Rick's dream girl. While Rick would rather have had the slender blonde win, he resigns himself to the fact he owes Jennifer a nice date, since she paid $500 for his time. <br />A platonic date of dinner and dancing turns into a wild night for Rick and Jennifer. Although the attraction is mutual and immediate, both Rick and Jennifer have to get past long held ideals of their perfect partner and past betrayals in order to find true love. <br />I enjoyed this entertaining and fun book immensely. Full Bodied Charmer is a well-written, fast paced and sensual story, while also being sweet and romantic. The characters are fully developed and their relationship and love for each other develops at a believable pace. Very few books deal with real characters like our heroine, almost all of the heroines in today's contemporary romances are tall, beautiful and \\"willowy\\" or petite, beautiful and a \\"perfect size six\\". Full Bodied Charmer deals skillfully with our preconceived ideas of what or who will make us happy. Along with the romance of Rick and Jennifer, the story has interesting and enjoyable secondary characters, especially Jennifer's best friend Cherica Martin and Rick's friend and business partner Troy Hunter, who has married a full-figured girl of his own.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R2AKDRZM082BGI	1843604639	530104867	Lionheart	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Tracy Few<br />Mara Armand, empath and head of the Armand Institute, has broken new ground. With the World Federation having outlawed any contact with alien species, the very fact that Mara has done just that leaves her fellow Sensitives more than just a little unnerved. But if the scant report she has been making to the board unnerves them, the fact that she has made more than just your normal contact with the alien would send the board into turmoil. For she has been sharing a mind link with the alien that is so intimate, so attuned, that when his ship is destroyed, and the alien cries out in need, she guides his life pod to crash near the institute. <br />Having been traveling through space, Sander, an Explorer, has visited Mara telepathically for the last three months. What started out as an innocent contact, by way of a 'ritual kiss' and sharing of thoughts, quickly turned into a sensual seduction and surrender. Now, with his ship destroyed, he must rely on the Armand Institute to keep the secret of his arrival, and for Mara and her people to help him to find a way to return home. With their love for one another rapidly growing, the couple will have to face the World Federation, as well as a traitor in their midst. One that will stop at nothing to make sure that Sander does not return home. <br />Ms Douglas' vibrant characters are unlike any other. Her detail to description gives the reader the insight into the very soul of the alien Sander, and the earth woman he loves. With an interwoven subplot of subterfuge and betrayal, you will be hanging on the edge of your seat until the very end. A tale of sensual seduction, and surrender, that is a must read for any true erotica fan.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	R3IY5RSP3AR76A	1843605600	911455526	Forbidden (The Seraphine Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Timeless Tales review	BY TT reviewer Nicole La Folle<br />There is a prophecy of a wingless Tanzinite who will mate with a Nordain of power and produce twins leading to the enslavement and fall of Dair. Liana is a Tanzinite who was cast out by her people because she was born without wings. The sorcerer Zanden, a Nordain, controls the town of Fiorn where a cruel older woman raised Liana, along with two other orphaned girls. When he heard about her, he claimed her for himself, forbidding any man to touch her or for her to even pleasure herself. Liana has the gift of seeing visions of the future and, having seen her fate, doesn't want to fall into Zanden's cruel hands. She plans to escape. <br />Aric L'tiercel is King of the Nordain. He cannot allow Zanden to claim Liana, as it would mean the downfall of his people. He plans to kidnap her from the tavern where she works telling fortunes. As Aric is preparing to act, the irani of Zanden attack the village to capture Liana. Panic ensues in the tavern, causing a fire to break out. Aric grabs Liana and throws her out the window, then onto the back of his horse and gallops off into the night. Aric knows that she is the Tanzinite of prophecy and that he is forbidden from mating with her, but he can't keep his hands off of her, especially when Liana keeps encouraging him. <br />Ms. McCray has created a new and exciting world with her Seraphine Chronicles. While she uses some familiar fantastical people, like Elves, she has a new and erotic take on them. She has also created new peoples in the Nordain and Tanzinites. Her characters are lifelike and the story line will keep you from wanting to return to the real world for hours. I am looking forward to future release by Ms. McCray and am happy to say it looks like she has one planned for each month this year.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	RYB289YCCB192	006050563X	630357889	Once a Scoundrel (Ladies' Fashionable Cabinet Trilogy)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	4.5 star review from Timeless Tales Book Reviews	By TT reviewer Nancy Arant Williams<br />With a well-deserved reputation as a scoundrel, Anthony Morehouse is at it again, in an alcoholic stupor. But at least he's won his wager. That's something. But what on earth has he won? A cabinet, a wardrobe of some kind? Even after reading the note describing the prize, the description makes no sense to his bleary brain, and he's sure he's been taken for a ride. Tony has the surprise of his life when he signs the papers to take over his cabinet. In fact, it's not a cabinet at all, but a women's magazine, entitled The Ladies' Fashionable Cabinet. Actually, Victor Croyden, its former owner, doesn't look the least bit sad to part with it, and why is that?<br />It just so happens that a woman, a very forward-thinking woman, is the magazine's editor. And she's no stranger to our hero, either. She drove him nearly to distraction as a small girl. Even back then, she had no intention of following traditional feminine roles. Tony still has nightmares about the years when Edwina Parrish dared and wagered him into more than one tight corner. When the inevitable meeting time comes, Tony barely recognizes the stunning creature before him. What's happened to the freckles and the pigtails, the skinny tomboy he knew so well? <br />Fortunately, Eddie no longer bears any resemblance to that brat. However, to his chagrin, he finds that Edwina is the same old competitive female he's always known, and she still has something of his. A tiny gilt bronze head of the Roman goddess Minerva--Eddie won it in a wager after Tony said he found it on his father's estate. Even now, it galls him to admit it, but he had actually stolen it and was boasting to her about it when she won it away from him, and he paid dearly--with stripes to the seat of his pants--for the privilege.<BR> <BR>Now that the tables are turned, what might he be able to win from her?<BR>Minerva, certainly, but dare he try for her heart? Edwina has little use for men these days. The loveof her life was executed in the French Revolution, and she spent years behind bars, emerging singularly independent and afraid to love again. Tony has his work cut out for him, but in wager after wager, which she can't seem to resist, he wears down her resistance, and finds himself changing in the bargain, falling hard for her. When a secret exposes Eddie's betrayal, Tony can't forgive or forget. Who is she really, and will he be able to live with the truth?<br />In fine fashion, Candice Hern brings to life characters who are, at the same time, wild, witty and charming. Their love is both passionate and tender, changing them both forever. If your passion is historical fiction, grab a copy of Once a Scoundrel. You won't be sorry. Rated R.	2003-09-14
US	34844779	RT5Z4ARSI4UOB	1592799450	221996620	Circle In The Sand	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Sara Sawyer<br />The Kents and the Maclaughlins have been neighbors, friends and family for generations. Everyone loves each other and each child grew up together. Samantha Kent fell in love with Kelly Maclaughlin when she was a child. Kelly was older by 3 years and Sam thought that it was better to keep her love a secret.<BR> <BR>Sam is brokenhearted and desperate when she hears of Kelly's impending marriage to Loretta and decides to reveal her feelings for him. She goes to his house to talk him out of marrying Loretta and was shocked to find out that Kelly loved her too. Kelly is unable to call off the engagement because not only is Loretta pregnant, but also her father has threatened Kelly's family and their workers. For the sake of his child, Kelly marries Loretta and suffers through a horrible marriage.<BR> <BR>Six and half years later, Sam and Kelly are brought back together for Eric's, Kelly's brother, wedding. Loretta has become more and more intolerable with her moods and her affairs that Kelly has been trying to find a way to divorce and keep Timmy, their son. Loretta is caught having sex with the pool man by Sam's grandmother, and in order to keep her quiet about the affair, Loretta kills her. It is believed by all that the grandmother's death was an accident, and in their grief Kelly and Sam find each other again.  <BR> <BR>Kelly asks that Sam wait until he can divorce Loretta and get Timmy. Sam is upset about having to be the mistress while he is married. Loretta announces a pregnancy and Sam, in a fit of fury, decides to marry a next-door neighbor, Warren. Kelly is upset and angry with her for this action. Warren has an ulterior motive for quickly marrying Sam, and that is found out rather quickly after a kidnapping. <BR> <BR>It is a suspenseful journey for the Maclaughlin and Kent families. It is a journey that not everyone survives.<BR> <BR>The action and the suspense were well crafted; they made you wonder what could happen next and then shockedyou when you found out. The mastermind criminal was inventive and you could see that he was a genius at planning; he just picked on the wrong family.<BR> <BR>This reader had a hard time accepting that Kelly could not divorce his wife earlier; she was not that hard to catch in the act.  Kelly also seemed to cast the blame on Sam in most of the situations. It was portrayed as her fault she felt so insecure in their relationship and that she should have waited for him to possibly divorce his wife sometime in the distant future. Kelly seemed a bit egocentric and Sam very weak-willed. It made the love-story hard to accept.<BR> <BR>Overall, it was a great premise and it was well written but the love story just didn't seem plausible.	2003-08-24
US	34844779	R1COW43MHWT1IB	0970994605	325146206	A Christmas Present	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by DonnaJ<br />David Connors loved Christmas and couldn't wait to get home to his wife Julie and their son Alex. They had plans to have Christmas Eve dinner with his parents before going to midnight mass, but he had one more client he had to see before he could leave. He and the client would go over the prenuptial agreement, then he'd be off to the train station and home in a couple of hours. After seeing Mr. DeGuilio and getting last minutes instructions from him, David looked out his window and saw that it was snowing harder and wondered if they would have to change their plans, but then remembered it was Christmas snow and nothing bad could happened. As he was leaving his building, he noticed the Salvation Army Santa ringing his bell and decided to give him some money. Looking at him, he thought how he made the perfect Santa, with his snow-white beard, red velvet suit and his blue eyes. While giving him the money, he felt as if he knew him, but shrugged it off and proceeded to Grand Central Station and home.<BR> <BR>Walking into the house, he thinks about how, after 5 years of marriage, it's easy to stop noticing what your spouse is wearing or doing to the house, but tonight he noticed all those things about Julie. Following her into the living room where his parents and son were waiting, he noticed that, even though Santa hadn't arrived yet, there were some packages already under the tree. One in particular he really wanted to know what it was, but Julie told him he couldn't open it until Christmas morning. It was a large, flat square package, but she handed him a large legal sized envelope. Inside was a lease for an office to open his own practice. <BR> <BR>As they're leaving from the Christmas service, Julie remembers they forgot the diaper bag and runs back in to get it. Coming back out and reaching the street she doesn't notice the truck coming too fast down the street and starts to cross when her heel gets stuck and she can't get loose. She falls and the truck hits her. At the hospital, they try everything to keep her alive, but to no avail. He doesn't know how he'll live without her. Three years later, he gets a miraculous Christmas present that shows him how he can live again.<BR> <BR>A Christmas Present is the story of how a man learns how to love and live again when he felt all he'd had to live for had been taken from him. This story will grab your heart and not let go. You'll think about it for days after and hold these characters close to you. Mr. O'Shea has a great novel here that is more than a keeper; it also makes you remember the joy of family and friends. It's well worth the price.	2003-08-19
US	34844779	R3DOYWU8FCCDWG	0533119715	954137791	Deadly Agent	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Brett Scott<br />Penny McGrath suffers the loss of both parents within a relatively short period of time. Luckily, her Aunt Les is a big part of her life. When her aunt insists on taking her to Australia, Penny is shocked to discover a huge family she didn't know existed. Why she didn't know is a big part of the book's mystery plot. Of particular interest is Devin McGrath, adopted son of her Uncle Dan. Although Devin feels put upon to act as Penny's personal guide, Penny doesn't mind spending time with him. She's elated to find there are no blood ties between them.<br />Devin is heir to the McGrath lands and sheep herd, but something is mysteriously killing off the animals. Aunt Les and the uncles are trying desperately to discover the cause. Could the same thing have killed her parents, cousin, and caused continued illness in the family? I really want to meet Susan Sweet someday and discuss how she came up with all the twists and turns in A Deadly Agent's cleverly concocted tale. You won't believe how many surprises are revealed. You'll want to keep reading to find out &quot;who done it and why.&quot;<br />In my opinion, the book could have been a much smoother read if the editing process had been more thorough. There could have been much more dialogue between the characters, more telling instead of showing. On one occasion, it appears the wrong character has been abducted (wrong name used), and in at least one scene, the heroine can see herself blush. A secondary character, who is mute, enters the room and announces dinner. The thoughts of the characters are italicized, but &quot;he/she thought,&quot; are consistently tacked on which negates the need for the italics. Susan Sweet is a talented author with a great imagination, and despite the minor flaws, A Deadly Agent is still an entertaining story. The editing takes nothing away from the storyline. Ms. Sweet is planning a sequel.  I look forward to its release.	2003-08-09
US	34844779	R3EGM61WK44QSM	1591050839	398734073	Heretic Sun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Chere<br />Once again, we're back with Thraxis, Arrow and Viabold.  Thraxis has decided that he would like to see his parents.  So the three of them show up at the Sanctum Minoris.  Anarete, the Prima of the Sanctum Minoris, wants to know why they came.  Thraxis explains that he just wanted to see his parents.  His parents, Cyaraxes and Jumica, seem somewhat nervous that he has shown up.  They are happy to see him and find out how he is.  <BR> <BR>Later in their room that night, Arrow and Thraxis are standing on their balcony when someone floats up to see them.  Arrow recognizes her as Thraxis's sister right away.  Thraxis senses that she is black like he is, even though she is wearing red robes.  Thraxis knows that rather than lose Thiacene, his parents have disguised her as a red.  He just can't figure out why Anarete went along with the deception.<BR> <BR>Meanwhile, Anarete wants to know why the Black Council sent Thraxis to her Sanctum.  She contacts Vilhardouin to find out.  It turns out that Thraxis was not sent by the Black Council to check on Anarete, but since he is there, Vilhardouin decides that the Black Council will come to Sanctum Minoris to check on their progress for themselves.  Anarete has just screwed herself.  She knows that Vilhardouin will sense that she has hidden Thiacene's power and she will be punished for it.  <BR> <BR>It turns out that the Sanctum Minoris has found a city of the ancients and is busy excavating it.  They are trying to find the ancient city of Xaqqara.  Thraxis and Arrow go to the city.  Arrow doesn't like the city.  She senses evil in it.  Thraxis is enthralled by it and immediately starts seeing what he can discover.  One day, Arrow and Thraxis go to the nearby human city.  They find a man beating a dog.  Thraxis uses his power to make the man stop.  They take it away.  It is an ugly puppy.  They clean it up and Thraxis names her Beautiful Girl.  <BR> <BR>Thraxis becomes more and more involved with the excavation.  Arrow is feeling more and more neglected.  Thraxis has found a map to the city of Xaqqara.  He is hoping that they can follow it and find the city.  The Black Council arrives.  Vilhardouin orders exile for Anarete and Thraxis's parents.  Thiacene is devastated.  Arrow takes her away from the Sanctum and teaches her how to use weapons.  Vilhardouin will not sanction Thraxis; she needs him to find Xaqqara.   Arrow also finds out that she is pregnant with a daughter.  She decides not to tell Thraxis, even though Viabold tries to convince her to.  She is afraid that Thraxis will feel that she is using him to breed children.  The next morning, they set out to the city of Xaqqara.  Arrow is very uneasy about this and only goes to keep an eye on Thraxis.  <BR> <BR>This is a wonderful sequel to \\"Tyrant Moon\\".  I have to admit that I enjoyed this book more than the first.  Personally, the very name Vilhardouin conjures up images of evil and fear, and she definitely lives up to her name.  I really love the way that the past is explained from the point of view of Thraxis and ends at the beginning of the first book.  Even though Arrow is pregnant, she is still very much the barbarian and is still very protective of Thraxis, as well as Viabold and Thiacene.  Thiacene and Arrow become very good friends in this story as well and save each other.  This is a wonderful story filled with evil and uncertainties and rebellion against a terrible wrong, but underlying it all is love, the love between friends, between husband and wife and between brother and sister.  I have to admit that I cried at the end of the story and didn't want it to end.  This is definitely a story that I recommend reading to all lovers of fantasy.	2003-08-08
US	34844779	R2D6NQ0TAXKCXX	0967733634	535719820	Lord Of Mists	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Angela Gibbs<br />Madeline Carlton lives a quiet and peaceful life with her brothers and her father, until one day tragedy strikes. She is frantic to find a way to save her father from dying. After hearing about a mystical healer, she sets out on a quest to find him and to bring him back to aid her in her quest to save her father's life. After traveling far, and alone, she finds whom she is looking for, only to be turned away most abruptly. Dance D'epanier, renowned healer, wants nothing to do with Madeline. Thinking that he is rid of her, she turns up again, having been found by his caretaker, and almost dead. After nursing her back to health, he intends to send her away, only to find out that his worst fear is about to come true. Again. <BR> <BR>Lord of Mists was a phenomenal read. Ms. Lindsey masterfully transports you into a world of passion, fear, hatred and love. Her characters are exquisitely written, and the dialogue of the story is amazing. Madeline is a very smart and determined young woman, vastly different from most girls of her time frame. She is determined to save her father, and she is willing to sacrifice anything to do so. Dance is a completely tortured man. He has believed that he is living in his own hell, and until Madeline arrived, he was. Dance has been through what other men can only imagine in nightmares, but he has survived. <BR> <BR>Lord of Mists will have you laughing at the antics of the characters, especially Dance's caretaker, Hywel. You will also be crying at the injustices and the pain that has been visited on Dance, and then cheering at the way Madeline and Dance fight to save themselves from danger. Lord of Mists is a love story for love stories. Ms. Lindsey has written an excellent book that will have the readers attention from the first word to the very end of the book.	2003-08-08
US	34844779	R2PFVP01HOWWA5	1591050839	398734073	Heretic Sun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Chere<br />Once again, we're back with Thraxis, Arrow and Viabold.  Thraxis has decided that he would like to see his parents.  So the three of them show up at the Sanctum Minoris.  Anarete, the Prima of the Sanctum Minoris, wants to know why they came.  Thraxis explains that he just wanted to see his parents.  His parents, Cyaraxes and Jumica, seem somewhat nervous that he has shown up.  They are happy to see him and find out how he is.  <BR> <BR>Later in their room that night, Arrow and Thraxis are standing on their balcony when someone floats up to see them.  Arrow recognizes her as Thraxis's sister right away.  Thraxis senses that she is black like he is, even though she is wearing red robes.  Thraxis knows that rather than lose Thiacene, his parents have disguised her as a red.  He just can't figure out why Anarete went along with the deception.<BR> <BR>Meanwhile, Anarete wants to know why the Black Council sent Thraxis to her Sanctum.  She contacts Vilhardouin to find out.  It turns out that Thraxis was not sent by the Black Council to check on Anarete, but since he is there, Vilhardouin decides that the Black Council will come to Sanctum Minoris to check on their progress for themselves.  Anarete has just screwed herself.  She knows that Vilhardouin will sense that she has hidden Thiacene's power and she will be punished for it.  <BR> <BR>It turns out that the Sanctum Minoris has found a city of the ancients and is busy excavating it.  They are trying to find the ancient city of Xaqqara.  Thraxis and Arrow go to the city.  Arrow doesn't like the city.  She senses evil in it.  Thraxis is enthralled by it and immediately starts seeing what he can discover.  One day, Arrow and Thraxis go to the nearby human city.  They find a man beating a dog.  Thraxis uses his power to make the man stop.  They take it away.  It is an ugly puppy.  They clean it up and Thraxis names her Beautiful Girl.  <BR> <BR>Thraxis becomes more and more involved with the excavation.  Arrow is feeling more and more neglected.  Thraxis has found a map to the city of Xaqqara.  He is hoping that they can follow it and find the city.  The Black Council arrives.  Vilhardouin orders exile for Anarete and Thraxis's parents.  Thiacene is devastated.  Arrow takes her away from the Sanctum and teaches her how to use weapons.  Vilhardouin will not sanction Thraxis; she needs him to find Xaqqara.   Arrow also finds out that she is pregnant with a daughter.  She decides not to tell Thraxis, even though Viabold tries to convince her to.  She is afraid that Thraxis will feel that she is using him to breed children.  The next morning, they set out to the city of Xaqqara.  Arrow is very uneasy about this and only goes to keep an eye on Thraxis.  <BR> <BR>This is a wonderful sequel to \\"Tyrant Moon\\".  I have to admit that I enjoyed this book more than the first.  Personally, the very name Vilhardouin conjures up images of evil and fear, and she definitely lives up to her name.  I really love the way that the past is explained from the point of view of Thraxis and ends at the beginning of the first book.  Even though Arrow is pregnant, she is still very much the barbarian and is still very protective of Thraxis, as well as Viabold and Thiacene.  Thiacene and Arrow become very good friends in this story as well and save each other.  This is a wonderful story filled with evil and uncertainties and rebellion against a terrible wrong, but underlying it all is love, the love between friends, between husband and wife and between brother and sister.  I have to admit that I cried at the end of the story and didn't want it to end.  This is definitely a story that I recommend reading to all lovers of fantasy.	2003-08-08
US	34844779	R16SZ5O3WLPKON	1894869672	20287058	In the Service of Samurai	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Jameela <br />&quot;In the Service of Samurai&quot; takes place in a fictional setting of Medieval Japan. The Asaka Clan has come back from the dead and risen from the depths of the sea to finally complete the mission they were sent out to do. In this epic adventure, the unwilling key that will complete the Asaka clan's mission is a peasant boy named Toshi. Toshi must help the Asaka clan succeed and face many dangers or risk becoming what the Asaka Clan has become, the undead.<br />Toshi was sold to his master, a mapmaker named Hirojima Shun, when he was very young. Now, at the age of fifteen, he is an apprentice mapmaker. Master Shun is unwell and Toshi is in charge of the shop, when a Samurai, with glowing green eyes, comes in minutes before closing. For the first time in his life he has proof that &quot;obake&quot; (or monsters) actually do roam the world. The Samurai standing before him is an &quot;obake&quot; and has come for him. Toshi is kidnapped from his home and pressed into the company of a ship full of the undead Asaka Clan. The enemies of the Asaka Clan attempt to stop Toshi from completing the task his new master has given him by making him one of the truly dead.<br />Gloria Oliver has created an exciting and entertaining adventure with &quot;In the Service of Samurai&quot;. Although it may take you a chapter or two to really get into the story, it is well worth reading. &quot;In the Service of Samurai&quot; is about honor, betrayal, love, faith, and friendship. While reading &quot;In the Service of Samurai&quot; you get to know Toshi well, and feel as if you are right there with him throughout his adventures. As the story unfolds, Toshi meets new and dangerous challenges and discovers that not everything is as it seems. I thoroughly enjoyed reading about Toshi and his adventure with the Asaka Clan and watching Toshi grow thru the challenges he has to face. I look forward to reading more of Gloria Oliver's work. If you enjoy reading a fantasy full of action and adventure I highly recommend you go out and get &quot;In the Service of Samurai&quot; and be prepared to enjoy a trip to Medieval Japan.	2003-08-08
US	34844779	R13RNN71KV0I28	1931402000	253620272	The House on the Bluff	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Shannah Biondine<br />The house on the bluff is known as The Pierce House to locals of Adam's Point.  Abigail Adams Pierce arrives in this small New England town determined to investigate the house, which is part of a mysterious family legacy harking back to eleventh century England. The house has been abandoned and has spent most of its many decades perching in eerie, empty silence above a cove known as the Bay of Death. This is not a charming New England bed and breakfast type of home, and boats dropping anchor in the bay it overlooks are invariably lost. Their crews are said to mysteriously disappear without a trace.<br />Beyond rumors of ghostly inhabitants and unexplained events, Abigail knows her ancestors have tried and failed to conquer the house and its secrets. Others have come before her and tried to reside within its walls, only to flee in terror. Legend says one brave descendant must enter the forbidden structure and unlock the secrets from its past. Only this stalwart descendant and his/her champion and consort will be accepted by the house--an entity with definite ideas of its own.<br />Readers who've ever become disoriented in a large mall or lost their cars in sprawling parking lots will be able to relate to the helpless feeling Abigail experiences. Just parking her Jeep outside or leaving one room to enter another touches off bizarre episodes in and around Pierce House. Abigail must find the courage to stay the course, no matter what.<br />The austere setting provides a suitable backdrop for the moody atmosphere of the storyline. I really liked the premise and enjoyed the way the author weaves in ancient history and colorful background lore from varying time periods; however, the plot twists were rather predictable and some scenes felt a bit repetitive.	2003-08-07
US	34844779	R2V3KP43L5A1TV	1929034628	120182268	Windfall	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Angela Black<br />Lady Gillian Cree--or Gilly as she is called--does not want to marry the cruel and sadistic Rolf de Viennes whom her parents have chosen for her. With the help of her older brother Lord Nicholas Cree (Nick) she runs away from home. But the weather is bitter cold and they find themselves in the midst of a snowstorm and seeking shelter. They find what appears to be an abandoned house and break in to take shelter. What they discover inside surprises them.<br />Inside the house Gilly and Nick find an unconscious man who is near death. They discover that he is someone they know. They nurse him back to health and he tells them about the lies of the past that separated him from his one true love-Gilly.<br />Widowed Prince Kaelan Hesar has been in seclusion for five years in the house known as Holy Dale. Shortly before his self-imposed withdrawal from the world, his wife died tragically in the house. He has been suspected of killing her. For this reason, he is hated by the local people, who have nicknamed the house Unholy Dale. Once Kaelan's health improves, he leaves the house with Gilly and Nick and sets out on an adventure to right the wrongs done to them. However, they don't realize that their troubles are about to begin all over again. <br />Charlotte Boyett-Compo has developed an alternate world with three-dimensional characters that are entrenched in political intrigue. The story is masterfully told through the eyes of Kaelan as he alternates between past and present to explain what led to his separation from Gilly. There is some graphic violence and sex but it's not gratuitous. This story is a prequel to the Keeper of the Wind series.<br />Be warned, there are a few scenes that some may find disturbing-I did. In several flashbacks Nick and Gilly are involved in sexual encounters: she is only 14 and he's 21 years old. A few years later, while she is still not of age, he fondles and attempts to have sex with her. While this may be acceptable to some readers, this reviewer found it disturbing, especially given current news headlines about men taking advantage of young girls.	2003-08-07
US	34844779	R39D2LX5I51BKH	1904224970	777024564	Vera and Eddy's War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Sam<br />Author Sam Smith has written the story of his parents-in-law, Vera and Eddy, during Second World War. Starting correctly at the beginning, this documentary follows Vera and Eddy in the war years. Eddy is a bricklayer who decides to volunteer in the Home Guards. We follow the couple as Eddy is sent almost all over Britain in order to train and Vera has to run her hair dresser's shop under heavy bombing from the Germans. Soon Eddy is sent to France and has to fight his way with the rest of the troops to drive the Germans back. Back home Vera is struggling on with a baby who needs medical attention and a husband whom she does not know is alive or dead.<br />This documentary is written in a peculiar staccato style that takes a while to get used to. And I have to admit, I was in the beginning wondering whether I would ever be able to finish it. I am happy to report that I was dead wrong. Once I got used to the short sentences and the seemingly (that being the key word) superficial way Mr. Smith describes the two main characters and the hoard of secondary characters, this book was a joy to read. I was soon captivated with the stories of those who experienced the horrors of war. And these horrors are described matter-of-factly and because of the lack of melodrama and histrionics they stand out so much starker. There is a lot of humor here and anecdotes you will never find in the standard books about the War. The Kafkaesque bureaucracy is hilarious and, more importantly, tragic considering that this is a documentary. This is the Second World War seen through the eyes of the regular people - those who died in droves. If you are going to read only one book about the ordinary people's experience of the War in your lifetime, let Vera and Eddy's War be the one.	2003-08-06
US	34844779	R3JQFMVL8H7YWD	1591050855	398338851	Rising from the Ashes	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Elaine Leite<br />Rising from the Ashes is a true story of a man and his family. He also tells you about the strengths and weaknesses of his family.  <br />His mother and father divorced when he and his brother, Barry, were both young boys. The boys were not without a father figure for long. Their mother, Jo, met and married Salvatore &quot;Sam&quot; LaRocca, who also adopted both the boys. <BR>They visited their father Jim and his wife Ruby. Barry and Michael enjoyed the times that they spent with their father, but never liked Ruby, even as they got older.<br />Jo soon divorced Sam and moved the boys into their own apartment. For Christmas, Barry and Michael would go and see their Dad. After the school year was over, Jo and the boys moved to Durham. You soon find out that Jo was a strong and proud woman.  <br />Michael decided to move in with his Dad and Ruby. He thought it would help his Mom out. During that year Jo and Barry moved and everything was fine for a while. But Michael moved back with Jo and Barry.<br />Jo made one of the biggest and worst mistakes of their lives. Barry and Michael ended up with their dad. As I said, Jo was a very proud and strong woman. Every time she fell, she picked herself back up. She was able to finally find love, but it did not last. Michael and Barry both graduated high school in Florida. Michael went to college at UEI and Barry enlisted in the Army. <br />But Michael would be the only living member of his family by the time he was twenty-six.<br />Rising from the Ashes is a story of heartache and the strength of one family.  This story touched my heart in so many ways. I cried and I laughed.	2003-08-05
US	34844779	R2DZCGBD7XE0PC	1592799329	287001370	Taken By The Wind	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by Susan Tam<br />Taken by the Wind is only a novella but wow, does it pack a punch!! Brenna Collins is in the wrong place at the wrong time. She witnesses a murder. A brutal serial killer has been running loose. Dubbed the Gemini Killer, he has been murdering pairs of twins. The killer becomes fixated on her - she has made an impression on him, especially by fighting back, since most of his victims rarely put up a struggle. The killer pursues her across several states and over time. Kylan Cree, a cop, is one of many who are trying to catch him. He and Brenna become close, but details of his past slowly come to the forefront. I can't add more or else I would be giving the entire story away. But there is a twist at the end that had me shaking my head!!<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this novella!! It could have been expanded into a longer book, but I felt the length was just perfect for it. It was a suspenseful, quick and very satisfying read. The characters were well developed for such a short story. Brenna is the kind of heroine I love - strong, smart and brave. The author has come up with a riveting story. I look forward to reading her next book!	2003-08-03
US	34844779	R1W4VK7DM4LGD	1581246811	846451220	Crazy in Chicago	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by DonnaJ<br />What do Cody and his neighbor have in common? He doesn't believe in UFOs and she does. She's an assistant to Dr. Garnet Jones, the President of the Society of UFO Watchers (SUFOW) and he's a reporter for The Streeter. But they find they do have something in common.<BR> <BR>Cody Walker had disappeared for six weeks without a trace, and then reappeared with amnesia. In the year since his return, he hasn't been able to sleep more than a couple hours at a time, has been nauseated, and has had a decidedly lack of interest in women. No amount of probing from doctors can tell him what happened to him for those six weeks.<BR> <BR>Roberta Vandenburg wants to help Cody find that missing time. She believes he's been abducted by aliens, but doesn't want to tell him, as she's afraid he'll think she's crazy.<BR> <BR>This is a story of intrigue, how opposites attract and work together to find out the truth, if Cody was really abducted by aliens or just kidnapped. She feels he was once a womanizer, so cannot be trusted, and wants to investigate his friend, Eric, like the psychic Madame Carabini told her to after their visit. <BR> <BR>Ms. Perkin pulls the reader in from the first page and knows how to keep them enthralled. The interaction of all the characters is very believable. It's heartwarming to see how the heroine wants to help the hero figure out what is really going on about his disappearance, his friends' baby and the way they act towards him. How she learns to believe in herself and him. This is one for the keeper shelf. And what happens when they get their answers? If you want to read a story about two people that love, care and need each other with alien abductions involved, then this is the book for you. I highly recommend it.	2003-08-03
US	34844779	R3QS2SZ3HGSDL6	1401073719	973514683	Boomerang	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by DonnaJ<br />As Sam sits drinking coffee on a beautiful Monday morning after getting her boys off to school and husband off to work, the phone rings and a voice she hasn't heard in over twelve years shatters her peace. He tells her he has good stuff planned for her now that he's back. After she hears the dial tone and hangs up, she starts wondering if she's going crazy like her aunt did. After all, Harold said it ran in families. She decides she needs to get out, so she takes a bike ride around the island and has an accident that lands her in the hospital. Her doctor and friend, Paul, tells her that, because of her injuries, she'll have to be there for a few days. <BR> <BR>While she's there she receives more phone calls from Damien, even though she knows he couldn't be calling her because he's dead, or is he? Is she going insane or is someone trying to make it look like she is? Why is Harold still having an affair with Toni after Sam told him this was his last chance? This novel keeps you guessing and interested right until the end about what will happen next. <BR> <BR>The author has combined mystery and action seamlessly. Lue Christian describes the beautiful scenery without overdoing it. She keeps the reader interested in the characters and how they interact with each other and makes them believable. This is a story that you'll love to curl up with and not want to be disturbed until the last page has been turned	2003-08-03
US	34844779	R2NKJTNB7CR9VK	1586080814	581771756	Teasing Danger (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Patricia McGrew<br />Jasmine and her search and rescue dog, Lemming, are following the trail of her best friend Wiley. Wiley loves to disappear into the Alaskan wilderness for solitude. But she always leaves a map and never deviates from her plans. So when Jasmine finds her camp empty and Wiley no where to be found, she's not sure which way to turn. Trying not to panic, but going over in her mind all the worse case scenarios, Jasmine never suspects that danger is closer than she thinks. As it gets dark, Lemming begins to bark. As she looks around their camp, several pairs of fiery yellow wolf eyes are staring intensely at them. Then a man steps out of the shadows and, with a few words, controls the wolves.  <BR> <BR>The stranger says she can either follow him or become wolf bait. So Jasmine follows him into the dark forest into a world suddenly alien, where three moons shine in the night sky. Jasmine is shocked to discover that the stranger claims to be her friend Wiley's cousin. Wiley is now called Rihlia, and she had been missing since she was very small. Jasmine and Wiley had grown up in a children's home. They had been inseparable ever since, could this be true. It didn't matter to Jasmine that the stranger, who called himself Keilor, was great to look at, he was between her and getting Wiley and getting back home.<BR> <BR>Get Wiley and escaping turns out to be not as easy as Jasmine hopes. Wiley is part of the royal family and has been promised in marriage since birth. When Jasmine and Wiley are united, it soon becomes clear that Jasmine will not be allowed to leave. It turns out that she is a sylph, a human who emits a pheromone irresistible to unmated haunts. That includes Keilor, who just happens to be the king's cousin and the master of the hunt. The more Jasmine and Keilor try to avoid each other, the more they are pulled towards each other.<BR> <BR>Teasing Danger is a fantastic blend of romance, suspense and science fiction. The hero is analpha male to the max, but he needs to be for the story. This is a very tightly woven story that left me wanting more. I would love to read more books by Autumn Dawn. She has a magical way of pulling you right into the story, so that it becomes your world as well as Jasmine's and Keilor's. Oh yes, not to be left out, the sex scenes are hot. If you are interested in creatures that can change form or just a great paranormal book in general, this is the one for you.	2003-08-03
US	34844779	R1DIEYWRIBQ6K	1401073719	973514683	Boomerang	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 5 stars review	by DonnaJ<br />As Sam sits drinking coffee on a beautiful Monday morning after getting her boys off to school and husband off to work, the phone rings and a voice she hasn't heard in over twelve years shatters her peace. He tells her he has good stuff planned for her now that he's back. After she hears the dial tone and hangs up, she starts wondering if she's going crazy like her aunt did. After all, Harold said it ran in families. She decides she needs to get out, so she takes a bike ride around the island and has an accident that lands her in the hospital. Her doctor and friend, Paul, tells her that, because of her injuries, she'll have to be there for a few days. <BR> <BR>While she's there she receives more phone calls from Damien, even though she knows he couldn't be calling her because he's dead, or is he? Is she going insane or is someone trying to make it look like she is? Why is Harold still having an affair with Toni after Sam told him this was his last chance? This novel keeps you guessing and interested right until the end about what will happen next. <BR> <BR>The author has combined mystery and action seamlessly. Lue Christian describes the beautiful scenery without overdoing it. She keeps the reader interested in the characters and how they interact with each other and makes them believable. This is a story that you'll love to curl up with and not want to be disturbed until the last page has been turned	2003-08-03
US	34844779	R1QPEZO4VU87A0	1592799485	341830516	First Love, Last Love	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 3 stars review	by Brett Scott<br />Kathleen Warner and Brendon Morgan passed their childhood days on fishing picnics-swiping sandwiches and fishing at the ravine. Now, five years after Brendon left for medical school, he's returned to Clayton to set up his own practice. When he left, Kat was a fifteen year-old tomboy. Now she wants him to notice how much she's grown, but she can't seem to get him away from clingy Faith Baldwin long enough. When Brendon sees the town deviant, Grady Gibson, publicly forcing himself on his best friend, Kat, he immediately comes to her rescue. Despite Faith's unkind remarks that Kat led Grady on and welcomed his advances, Brendon insists that Kat accompany him to an upcoming dance to prove that Faith's opinion is not one shared by the local townsfolk. When her reputation stands on its own good merits, the dance is the beginning of Kat's dreams come true. Brendon is interested in her and not in Faith. Unfortunately, her newfound dream quickly turns into a nightmare by someone's continued attempts to kill her. <br />First Love, Last Love by Jewell Dartt is an interesting combination of romance and mystery with a colorful cast of secondary characters. They include Mrs. Waterman, who has her cap set for Kat's Grandpa, Ben, Jake Durwood, the ten-year old town terror, and Kat's feisty sister, Rosette, who has a romance of her own with Brendon's younger brother, Chatfield. Add in a breech birth and a cholera epidemic and the medical challenges of the era broaden the story.<br />Brendon is determined to find who locked his ladylove in a burning barn, tried to grind her beneath the flashing hooves of a stallion and left threatening notes for her to find, but he's running out of suspects. Why would someone want to kill Katherine? First Love, Last Love takes you on a journey to find the responsible person and the reason for the vendetta. It's an easy read and a good way to fill an evening. Even though I figured out who the villain was early on, the story still held my interest until the end.	2003-08-03
US	34844779	R2VUKA0XGJJ1RI	1590889533	173702021	Bed, Breakfast and Beware	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	By Nancy Arant Williams<br />When Hallie Martin arrives in England, she has no idea she will land smack in the center of intrigue and danger. She's come to help her friends, Ben and Rose, renovate a building they plan to use for a new bed and breakfast; in addition to the one they already own and operate.<br />The questions begin when she is sees a pup thrown from a car, and proceeds to where vandals damage the bed and breakfast that is under renovation. Not only that, but the owner, Ben, is involved in a car accident, and is diagnosed to have fallen asleep at the wheel after having been drugged. Hallie herself, while touring the area, feels she is being followed, and is nearly tossed down a steep staircase. Who on earth could be trying to harm them? And what is Hallie's cousin, Iris, doing in town without making contact? Why is she seeing her everywhere, including ransacking Hallie's own possessions in her room?<br />And who attacked Iris, removing all suspicion from the woman herself? The bed and breakfast is full of guests on a regular basis, but somehow, they don't seem to fit into the equation. In the middle of the puzzle, Alun Bradshaw, who is Ben's cousin and coworker, is making a play for Hallie. Can she trust him, or should she be afraid of him?<br />Fran Keighley, in Bed, Breakfast and Beware--makes the most of the intriguing historical sights and delectable foods that most of us will never see or taste. <BR>Her characters are warm and alive, and make you want to have them to tea. If you enjoy a mystery with an international, yet cozy, flavor, this is it. No doubt, you'll also want to stick around for the surprise ending.	2003-07-30
US	34844779	R1EJIMLH3GKW17	1931095353	552913466	Sunset With a Beard	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales 4 stars review	by Sashaemillee Myhrom<br />Without a doubt, Carlton Mellick's book &quot;Sunset with a Beard&quot; lives up to the author's claim that the reader will be unable to tell science fiction from surrealism in his stories. Perhaps this is due in part to the fact that the entire collection calls for almost unreasonable stretches of the reader's imagination. <BR>        <BR>Mellick tries incredibly hard to achieve surrealism in his writing, though in places the obvious effort simply comes across as overkill. In the short story &quot;The Earwig Flesh Factory&quot; the oxymoron &quot;beautiful ugliness&quot; is overused and a bit of a stretch even for a surrealistic future. The phrase and others like it are used throughout the book and make it seem as though Mellick is trying too hard to achieve surrealism.  <BR>        <BR>Aside from a few weak subplots that lead nowhere, Mellick's writing is outstanding. With a style all his own, the author uses hyphenated descriptive words to precisely depict a motion or feeling. &quot;Slap-brushing,&quot; &quot;droop-staring,&quot; &quot;scream-hissed&quot; and &quot;tickle-crawling&quot; are but a few examples of this incredibly effective writing technique.  <BR>        <BR>Mellick is a master of painting with words; particular lines lead the reader into the story, vividly drawing a mental picture with little effort. Creative lines such as &quot;Watching the ghostly New Yorkers walk like smoke down the icy sidewalks&quot; and &quot;...sky, which seems to hang a little too close above me, like I am finely printed words that it is trying to read&quot; draw the reader into the narrator's world in a way that few authors can successfully do.  <BR>        <BR>Though much of Mellick's book displays a flare for the dramatic, it is at times poignantly short. Sentences such as &quot;he is a very decorative man&quot; are just precise enough to make a point; some lines have no need for garnishing.  <BR>        <BR>&quot;Sunset with a Beard&quot; isa fantastic (and fantastical) read that improves with every story. Though unnecessarily disgusting in parts, the overall effect is sensational.	2003-07-29
US	34844779	R3MWSD56U4VZ1E	1582000867	506947874	Banished [3 1/2 disk, HTML]	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Susan Tam<br />Arabella was banished to northern England by her husband, Justin, when he found her in a compromising situation. Upon notification that her husband was killed while fighting Napoleon, her banishment ends and she is reunited with Justin's family. Unfortunately, the news of his death was incorrect. After almost four years,  husband and wife meet again. Justin has ignored her for all those years. He did not read her letters nor enquired about her welfare. She suffered immensely at the hands of his Aunt Mary during her banishment. She gave birth to their daughter and Justin knows nothing of her since he never read any of her letters. She was a naïve 17 year old at the time of her marriage, but she is no longer that young, naïve girl. She is a mother and she will fiercely protect her child. Caroline, her sister-in-law, is about to embark on her Season in London and Arabella is forced to help. She must appear with her husband in society so there will be no scandal to taint Caroline's coming out. Justin offers her a chance to set up her own household if she would cooperate and she would not be sent away again. Arabella agrees to this and they all set out for London. Spending time with his wife causes Justin to have second thoughts about his marriage - - he yearns for the halcyon early days of his marriage -- he yearns for his wife and he wants his family back. How can he accomplish this when he still believes she was unfaithful to him? More importantly, can Arabella get past his treatment of her?<br />There were so many twists and turns in this plotline. At the heart of the story is the love Arabella and Justin still harbor for each other. Justin is the typical brooding hero who slowly realizes that maybe what he saw was not correctly interpreted. Arabella is no longer the young girl with stars in her eyes - she has matured into a woman. Her four-year banishment has strengthened her and she doesn't accept everything at face value. She has toget past the hurt of Justin's mistrust and his actions resulting from it. I enjoyed reading this book. It was a well-written book with strong main characters and a great supporting cast.	2003-06-10
US	34844779	R3KRAHXJAJUG7A	0759902844	685737888	The Godmother Sanction	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Patricia McGrew<br />Leticia Warton is convinced that her mother's invitation to her Halloween fundraiser ball is just another way to get Tish to break up with her fiancé, Carl. Tish and Jilly, her business partner and best friend, go to several garage sales to assemble her costume of Fairy Godmother. A smelly, ragged, down on her luck godmother, equipped with a broken wand. Just the right costume to get revenge back at her mom for trying to stop her marriage to Carl.  <BR> <BR>Marcus, one of the Border Guard of Faery, is sent to the middle-border to attend a human ball, where a human female seems to have gotten a wand that belonged to a deceased member of Faery. Not knowing the power or the rules of the wand, Marcus is to get the wand back before there is any trouble. But he doesn't act fast enough.<BR> <BR>After Tish realizes that the ball is for homeless women, she realizes that she has only embarrassed herself. As she runs out to the garden to escape, she sees a couple by the shrubs. When she looks closer, it is Carl, with his arms around another woman, kissing her for all he is worth. Tish gets so angry she says, &quot;you sniveling, slobbering, slab-sided, slimy toad,&quot; the wand comes down and, in the next instant, her words come true. Before she can change the girl as well, Marcus, Tish and frog disappear in the fog. She wakes up in a dungeon awaiting trial for using magic without a license.<BR> <BR>The Godmother Sanction has everything; hilarity, tenderness, magic and love. Tish has to deal with Prince Charming, Cinderella, witches brew, magic mirrors, uglies, curses and magic for sale. The story is full of wit and whole new look on the fairy tale world. This is a keeper for me, I know that I will be taking it out and reading it again and again. Godmother Sanction is a delightful read, for everyone. Don't pass up this book just because the cover doesn't do it justice. I look forward to finding other novels by Patricia White.	2003-06-10
US	34844779	R38T9TBLRSRJNE	1932300031	189828228	Goldfish Dreams	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Nancy Arant Williams <br />The only way out of her nightmare existence is college, or so Eileen Greenwood believes as she enters Southern Michigan State University as a freshman student. The dorm room she is assigned to is furnished with a bunk bed, a strangely overemotional, but stunning blonde roommate, a broken window and no air conditioning, causing the normal freshman adjustments to be just slightly more complicated than they ordinarily would be. <br />She's been waiting with baited breath to leave home, but finds that her usual rigid self-control is shattered when her psych professor discusses the management of psychic wounds. When she lashes out over seemingly small issues, she finds herself falling for her Psych teaching assistant, who suggests she come and see him in his role as a crisis counselor. <br />For years, her tight system of controls has kept at bay the devastation wrought when her brother, Brad, molested her over a four year period. But now that system is failing her, and she can no longer cope. <br />Because no one believed her when she reported it, she doubts Patrick, in his role as counselor, will either. But she's pleasantly surprised when he gently helps her come to grips with her pain. Not only that, but he connects with her on a deeper level, making her feel valuable and desirable again. When Brad is suddenly killed in a car accident, she learns several things that explain his abusive behavior, but to what lengths will she go to uncover the whole truth?<br />In spite of Patrick's warning that she let sleeping dogs lie, she urgently needs to fix the blame, righting the wrongs of the past, but how far will she go--as far as murder?<br />In Goldfish Dreams, Jim Hines weaves a memorable fictional tale of abuse, secrets and regrets, but he also skillfully handles the topic of incest, giving hope to those dealing with the haunting memories and scars of the past. Some graphic scenes.	2003-06-10
US	34844779	RPDTT9JDDVARG	1592799469	40058822	White Lies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Tonya Ramagos<br />Love-starved Sarah Mason desperately wants her parents' approval. So much so that she allows her parents to dominate her life in every way, from the job she keeps to the man she is set to marry. But Sarah is getting fed up. She can feel herself growing stronger, building the strength to stand up to her parents and manipulative fiancé. Consumed with worry about her sister's disappearance, Sarah flees to Jamaica in hopes of finding clues that will lead her to Nicole. What she finds is Dominick LaCroix. A man who will change everything about her life forever.<br />Tall, built and handsome, Dominick LaCroix possesses a special power of a sixth sense. It is a power that warns him when things are about to go wrong, can tell him the sex of an unborn child and tells him when he sets eyes on Sarah Mason that she is the woman he will spend the rest of his life with. As Nicole's ex-landlord and boss, Dominick aids Sarah in finding her sister. But even his sixth sense can't warn him of the dangers they are about to face.<br />WHITE LIES is action-packed to the max. A destructive hurricane and a dangerous undercover mission are just a couple of the suspenseful events that will hold the reader captive. Lies are being told by everyone, and as the truth begins to come out, the spell bounding twists and turns pile on the captivating suspense. And all of this is neatly entwined in a hot, steamy budding romance of exciting and exotic proportions. The character of Sarah Mason is one who is easily identifiable. Her desires to be loved, to have approval and the pain she holds secret deep inside will seep into your heart and leave you praying for her happiness. Dominick LaCroix is the perfect hero: sensitive, handsome, loving and strong. WHITE LIES is a book that keeps you guessing and sitting on the edge of your seat in anticipation. I highly recommend this novel.	2003-06-02
US	34844779	R3DHF35TQH48UE	1592799477	228484777	Windreaper (Windlegends Saga)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Timeless tales review	By TT reviewer Susan Tam<br />Windreaper is book 5 in the 10 book WindLegends series. Conar McGregor, once a Prince and beloved husband of Liza, is no more. Kaileel Tohre, leader of the Dominion has been able to strip him of all that he loved; his wife, his children, his family and his friends. He had suffered extreme cruelty at the hands of Kaileel as a child, but his time spent at the Labyrinth prison has changed him. Conar has escaped from the Labyrinth prison and became known as the Dark Overlord. He has been spending his time annoying the Dominion. He has been removing gold from the Tribunal and Temples of the Dominion, causing great consternation in the Dominion. It has been six years since the escape from the Labyrinth. However, his decision to return to his homeland sets in motion a cataclysmic reaction. How will A'Lex and Liza react when they find him alive? How will he react when he finds out that Corbin is his son? And can he keep his hands off Liza, who is no longer his wife?<br />Ms. Boyett-Compo has written another page turner. She keeps you reading to see how the triangle of Conar/Liza/A'Lex will end up and, more importantly, to see how much further Conar can sink to. Conar is an extremely flawed character and he doesn't have many heroic moments in this book. Even with all his flaws, you can see a glimmer of greatness -- of what he could be if he had more control of himself and if others didn't interfere with his life. He succumbs to the addiction of drugs this go around (in earlier books, it was alcohol). He has never been able to fully control his physical urges and he takes it out on various women, especially his current mistress and Liza. Poor Liza, never has a heroine been treated so badly! Married to one man while still in love with another and treated badly by both! Liza loves A'Lex, but she is in love with Conar, who is her soulmate. Even with all his many faults, Conar is still able to command loyalty from his brothers, friends and Liza. Manyof the characters from previous books makes a reappearance so it is vital that you read the previous books. There is sexual violence in this book -- definitely not for the squeamish! Even though I did wince more than once while reading this book, I do look forward to the next one.	2003-05-23
US	34844779	R19XTSYOVA4BRM	1893896722	800572939	Gryphon's Quest	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver<br />Gryphon O'Connor is fed up with everything. He's tired of always being at the beck and call of the Sorceress. He is fed up with constantly doing everything asked of him. He probably wouldn't mind this so much if he could at least have the acceptance of the members of the Order, but he has always been feared and taunted. Parents even keep their children away from him. He is so tired of this. It isn't his fault that he is the way he is. His parents shouldn't have been messing around with things they didn't understand after he was conceived. <br />Once again, the Sorceress has summoned him. This time, he decides that he isn't in any kind of a hurry to get there. When he finally gets to the Castle, he finds his parents are already with the Sorceress. She decides to send all three of them on a mission. It turns out that three very special rune stones have been taken by someone. The stones were buried with the last protectors of them and now they have been unearthed and taken away. These three rune stones will give someone the power to shapeshift. What the person shifts into will be the reflection of that person's soul. If the rune stones are used for a evil purpose, the person will shift into something ugly. The Sorceress sends the three of them to New York where the stones have been taken.  <br />Gryph's parents fly to America from England. Gryphon flies. Thanks to his parents meddling with spells after he was conceived, Gryphon shifts into the shape of a black gryphon. The Order has a law that no Outsider can be told of the Order. If an Outsider should learn of the Order, whoever told the Outsider, along with the Outsider, will be put to death.  <br />Meanwhile, in New York, Heather is working at a museum. She is in charge of cataloging the relics that the Professor has shipped back to the museum. Heather has a boyfriend, Niall. Lately, Niall has become way too possessive for Heather and she is just about to dump him. Heather is very knowledge about everything Celtic, which is her area of expertise. The Professor has just returned from a trip to Great Britain and has sent quite a few relics back from that area. Heather is working late again. Ned, the security guard, who she considers a friend, always walks her to her car.  <br />When Heather is in bed that evening, she has an unexpected visitor. Gryph has come into her small apartment. He wants information on the rune stones. Heather doesn't know anything about them. She is frightened by Gryph, but somehow knows that he won't hurt her.  <br />The next morning when Heather gets to the parking lot of the museum, she is met by a police detective. He informs her that Ned has been murdered and that she was the last person to see him alive. Heather is very upset by this news. She can't understand why anyone would murder Ned and decides to try and find out what happened and why. She begins to wonder about the three rune stones that Gryph told her about.  <br />Now, Gryphon and Heather begin to work together to try and find the three rune stones. They also need to find out who has them.  Gryphon knows that whoever it is murdered Ned. Gryphon must be very careful in what he tells Heather. He doesn't want to be responsible for anything happening to her because of him.<br />Gryphon is a tortured soul. He is very bitter about his life. He has no friends and spends most of his time alone. The other members of the Order all shun him and he is very bitter about this. He begins to fall in love with Heather. He is afraid of what she will think of him if she finds out that he can shift to a gryphon. Gryphon is afraid that Heather will see him as a monster, just like everyone else he knows. This is something that he will have to overcome. Heather has been alone for most of her life. Her parents died some time ago and she has never really gotten close to anyone after that. She feels that whenever she gets close to someone, they die. When Ned is murdered, this just reinforces those feelings. She can't understand why Gryphon is keeping so many secrets from her. The Sorceress is in charge of the Order and she acts accordingly. She is very strong and domineering. She is used to having people in the air when she says jump. She realizes that Gryphon is just about at the end of his tether and something must be done about it.<br />I definitely enjoyed this book. I loved the way that Celtic lore and things fantastic were woven into it. It's so very realistic and believable that I almost expect to find fairies in my garden. I really enjoyed the reading about the Order and how the Sorceress keeps everything under control. This is a wonderful fantasy that I definitely recommend to all lovers of things Celtic!!	2003-05-04
US	34844779	R2NO4EWNF2CG7F	1592799647	960254290	Double Take	Books	4	2	2	N	N	4 star review	By Tt reviewer Angie Gibbs<br />Every year, ER nurse Jane Morgan and her identical twin sister try to one up each other with the most unusual birthday present. And it looks like, this year, her sister has won. Jane never thought her day would end with this much of a bang. Jane thought that placing herself in a charity date auction was bad, but walking away with a husband she didn't marry was not in her plans. His father's will states that Eric Rodham has to be married for one year by the time that he turns 35, or he will lose his inheritance. After finding out that his fiancée was only with him for his money, Eric decides to buy his bride. So one night, at a bar he meets Jane Morgan, and after offering her money, marries her. Then, after passing out from too much alcohol, he discovers that she has disappeared.<br />Now Eric has tracked Jane down, although she is not the woman that he married. Eric actually married Jane's twin sister, who signed everything under Jane's name. Now Jane's sister is hiding out, waiting to see how her present has enhanced her sister's life. So Eric gives Jane an ultimatum, take your sister's place until she comes back, or she goes to jail. Now, what would a loving sister do? Jane takes her place, but she doesn't make Eric's life any easier. <br />Double Take is a wild, funny romp. The antics that both Jane and her sister, Janice, get into are hilarious. And the trouble that they put Eric through is classic. Throw in a little jealousy, and you have a winner of a story. Rhonda Kirk pulls out all the stops on her newest novel. She has you rooting along with the twin's antics, while also hoping that all works out between Jane and Eric. Readers will not be able to put this book down until they have finished it from the first page, until the last. This is a keeper for all romance lovers.	2003-04-16
US	34844779	RXC7ZEJ3BAXYW	0970716931	389369337	God Of Fire	Books	3	10	10	N	N	3.5 star review of God of Fire	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver <BR>Always beware when the Gods get angry; you never know what might happen. In this case, it's Frigg that's angry, with her husband Odin. She is tired of him messing around with Freya. And, since Thor is Odin and Frigg's son, and since Thor is expecting one of his favorite warriors, Ragnar the Feared, in Valhalla soon, Frigg is going to make sure this doesn't happen. She is going to get Loki's help to ensure this.  <br />Dara has to be dreaming. She is with Loki and he is making her feel all kinds of wonderful. Loki tells her that she is to be married to a real warrior and to remember the name Ragnar. He also marks her with a dragon on her ankle. Dara is engaged to a man that she doesn't love, nor does he incite any passion in her. Later that day, she decides to break off her engagement and lays down on the river on her land. She decides to take a nap in the nude, after all, no one will come by.<br />Meanwhile, the council is meeting. The Jarl, Erik Valkraad, tells the rest of the Vikings that he has had a vision. He tells them that Loki came to him in this vision. He was told that the chosen one would find a female by the River Thund. She would be a woman of gold, golden skin, golden hair and golden eyes. All of the Vikings would have to do this woman's bidding. She would wed the chosen one, but he can't force her to his bed. And if any of the warriors want to make it to Valhalla, she will have to bear a male child, which would be named Balder, within one year. And nobody can tell her about this. Well, naturally, all of the men volunteer for this job. But Erik tells them that the chosen one is his son and heir, Ragnar. Oh no. Ragnar has been married twice and has slept his way through all the women in the village without a child. No one can understand why he was chosen.<br />Dara wakes up and seems to be lost. Nothing looks familiar. She runs into a mountain of man with a mountain man's scraggly beard. This turns out to be Ragnar. He takes her back to his village and sneaks her into his room. He doesn't want to share her with anyone else. He has told her that he won't rape her, that she must come willingly to him. He also informs her that they will be married the next day. Dara is not exactly happy with this, but doesn't know what to do about it. She checks her ankle, and there is the dragon that Loki put on her during her dream. This must be real and she really can't believe it. She has gone to sleep in the year 2001 and woke up in the year 820! She decides to play along with Ragnar until she can figure out what to do.<br />Ragnar is your totally typical Alpha hero. He is big and gorgeous. He is the heir apparent and acts that way. He surprises himself when he begins to care very much for Dara. He is also surprised that he doesn't want to have sex with anybody but his wife, even when women throw themselves at him. Dara is flung from one time, with everything going for her, into a time that she doesn't really want to be in. She has trouble dealing with the thralls, or slaves. She finds the whole idea disgusting to her, but has to learn to live with it. Of course, her husband is the best thing about this time. The secondary characters are all very believable as well. I especially liked Joran, Ragnar's mother. She figured out right away that Dara was from a different time and accepted her. Joran helped make Dara's transition into 820 a little easier.<br />This is a wonderful read. The Viking time is very realistic, right down to the fighting during the wedding feast. Even though this book is romantica, it definitely leaves you with the \\"warm fuzzy\\" feeling at the end. This is definitely a book that I can recommend to anyone that enjoys romantica and Viking lore.	2003-04-16
US	34844779	R1JTHD3T3O0LSU	1843600536	890266008	Last Kiss	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4 star review :)	from TT reviewer Patricia McGrew<BR>Count Alexei Romanov has spent centuries seeking his lover. Three times he'd found her over the years and three times he'd lost her. Death claimed her each time and he had not been able to save her. Now, at last, thirty years since her last incarnation, he has finally found her once again.  <br />Elaine Nichols arrives at her long time friend Dirk Prentice's house for the weekend. Dirk's parties are luxurious affairs of sheer indulgences, great food, vintage wines, plush surroundings and sex, sex, sex. Six months ago, Elaine would never have considered having sex with someone she didn't know, but that has all changed. Ever since she found out her cancer was back and this time there was no stopping it, morals weren't as important. With only a short time to live, she was going to enjoy what time she had to the max.<br />Almost immediately she meets Alex Romanov, a man she has dreamed about for years. How can the man who has haunted her dreams be standing in front of her? Alex believes Elaine is the reincarnation of his lost love. He is determined to woo her, seduce her, and convince her to stay by his side for eternity. Not wanting to spoil their time together, Elaine decides not to tell Alex the truth about herself. But that doesn't stop her from falling in love. At the end of the weekend Alex has to leave, but he begs Elaine to wait for two days for his return.<br />Will she wait? What will Alex say when he finds out Elaine is dying? Can he find a way to save her this time before it's too late?<br />Last Kiss is a very graphic and erotic vampire romance. Dominique Adair has written a very sensual love story that will entertain any reader. It quickly moves from one encounter to the next without bogging down. The romance between Elaine and Alex is wonderfully drawn, so much so that you will find yourself devouring the story. I don't believe the cover did this book justice. Alex's vampirism is played down till the end of the story, making this more of a romance than a paranormal. This is a quick read.	2003-04-15
US	34844779	R347EGCOCFG3E3	1592799671	596329191	Shivers	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Sashaemillee Myhrom<br />What if Jack the Ripper had a family? What if shadows had minds of their own? What if a spider could be trained to kill? \\"Shivers\\" is an anthology of \\"what ifs\\" drawn from our darkest dreams.  This fascinating collection, which preys upon both fears and sorrows, will have readers checking for monsters beneath the bed and sleeping with the light on...just in case.<BR>        <BR>Despite her spectacular imagination, author Katherine Irving's success as a storyteller is hindered by her misuse of several writing techniques. Ms. Irving's overuse of both metaphors and similes leaves the reader feeling overwhelmed and often confused. Adding to the confusion is the repetition of themes and particular phrases throughout the entirety of the book. Though in a few stories the use of repetition is an effective literary technique, in others it serves only to bore and tire the reader. In the story \\"Nowhere to Hide,\\" repeated use of the word \\"eyes\\" and the phrase \\"nowhere to hide\\" adds unnecessary length to the story while not lending comprehension or suspense.  <BR>        <BR>Characterization throughout the anthology is weak and unsupported. The majority of \\"Shivers\\" characters and narrators remain a mystery to the reader and result in weak storylines and loose ends. With the exception of a few stories, such as \\"Warm Wet Kisses In E-Flat Minor,\\" in which the dual narration by both Jack and his sister Jane gives the reader a deeper understanding of the characters, \\"Shivers\\" presents little more than thin ghosts of personalities.<BR>        <BR>Ms. Irving's anthology might be better served by the removal of fully one-half of the stories, making room for the expansion of stories which desperately need more history than the author has put to page. What the book lacks in quality of style, it more than makes up for in creativity, but more complex characters set in a supported context would surely take \\"Shivers\\" from mediocre to masterful.	2003-04-14
US	34844779	RNZU1HD0ZIDIA	1591132029	368618672	Living in the City	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Patricia McGrew<br />Imagine growing up in a small farming town where the main industry is the Bologna Factory. Where you grow up, get married, have children and your life becomes just like your parents.<br />For Cari Arndt's thirtieth birthday, her husband Rich gives her a dilapidated house in the city. A house in the area of the city she decides that she wouldn't even walk down. After swearing that she would never leave her quiet Pennsylvania Dutch town, she finds herself packing for a move into the unknown.<br />In no time, Cari is involved in her neighbors' lives, whether she wants to or not. Her next-door neighbor, Judy, sits on the porch, smoking and sipping beer, while giving advice on everyone else's life. Junior sells cotton candy and Christmas trees out of his rusted ice truck, believing he is going to inherit a million dollars. Then there are the fraternal twins who get involved in every cause in the neighborhood. Two houses down lives Harriet, an emergency nurse, and her husband Bill, who spends his life in front a large screen television. Eddie lives across the street, he is trying to hold his family together, in spite of the fact that his wife is on drugs.  <br />Cari's relationship with Judy becomes a changing point in her life. They share a love of Judy Garland's movies and songs. Together, they start fixing up her house. With Judy's help, Cari tries to work on her fears of living in the big city. When a multiple murder happens a few doors down the street, Cari wants to move back to her parents' house. She has to make up her mind whether or not to give up on her marriage or stay in the little safe zone of her hometown.<br />Living in the City is about how a couple find themselves and their dreams, and what makes a house a home. The secondary characters are developed to give you real insight into their life. This really enriches the story. Cari's growth as a person is handled with great care.  <br />If you took someone from a small townand dumped them in the big city, I would expect their life to be just like Living in the City. This was a very enjoyable book. If you are looking for a novel on big city living, this is the book for you to read.	2003-04-14
US	34844779	R3419DC3D1460T	1931696993	126472123	Finders Keepers	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver<br />Captain Trilby Elliot is trying to repair her ship, the Careless Venture, with the help of her robot, Dezi, when the intruder alarms go off. It is just about twilight now. She is on the planet Avanar, a place that no one goes to. She steps to the entrance of the cave and sees a small craft. She decides to follow it and see what happens. She realizes that it is a Tark, which is a 'Sko vessel. 'Sko are enemies of the Conclave, which Trilby is a member of. The 'Sko are also enemies to the Imperials. The Imperials and the Conclave have a treaty going right now that has only been in existence for three years. Trilby plans on getting salvage rights to the ship. It crashes and from the way it does, Trilby expects to find a dead pilot. She and Dezi head for the ship. She finds the pilot and cannot believe that he is alive!  <BR> <BR>They manage to get him, and quite a gorgeous him at that, back to her ship and into the sickbay. She only has one regen bed and they get him in there. Once he wakes up, he manages to take Trilby hostage and locks Dezi in the regen bed. It takes him a while to realize that he is naked. He immediately gets dressed and takes Trilby up to the bridge of the ship. She tries to tell him that it isn't necessary for this, but he won't listen. She knows that he is Imperial by his uniform. He tells her that he is a lieutenant and his name is Rhis Vanur.  <BR> <BR>The three of them do the necessary repairs to the ship. Trilby is planning on doing a run. After all, she is an independent freighter captain. She will drop off Rhis on her way and then continue on with her cargo. He can manage to get back from there.  <BR> <BR>They are en-route when Trilby gets a message from a friend of hers who runs a bar. One of the friends that Trilby grew up with, Carina, is also a freighter captain. Her ship has been reported missing. Rhis tells Trilby that he is aware of a plot between the Conclave and the 'Sko. A high-ranking member of theConclave government is behind it and he is known as the Dark Sword. Rhis manages to get a relay from a ship, that marks Trilby as being a target and to be killed. Rhis talks her into going into Imperial space, so he can rendezvous with the Razalka. He tells her that he needs to get this information to his people.  <BR> <BR>Eventually, it comes out that Rhis is really \\"The Khyrhis T'var\\", or \\"T'var the terrible\\". He is a Senior Captain in the Imperial Fleet. He is also noted as being extremely cold and uncaring of people. Trilby can't believe that she fell for all of his lies and begins to hate him. She had just gotten over an affair with Jagan Grantforth, one of the \\"The Grantforths\\" and promised herself that she would never get involved with anyone else that had a \\"The\\" in front of their name. And she really fell for Rhis too. They suspect that the Grantforths are involved in this treaty, but have to be able to prove it.  <BR> <BR>They come up with a plan, using Trilby as bait. For some reason or other, the 'Sko want Trilby. They even give Trilby a new ship after the Venture got destroyed. Now, she picks out her crew for the mission.  Of course, Rhis is coming along as the leader of the mission. Now it gets interesting.  <BR> <BR>This is another story by Linnea Sinclair with a wonderful cast of characters. Once again, the heroine went through the \\"school of hard knocks\\" and is very strong and used to running her own life. And, naturally, she has the attitude as well. And, of course, she falls for a gorgeous hunk of manhood who never had a heart until he met her. Rhis is another \\"Superman\\" type character. He came from a test tube and has special skills as a result of this. He is also very much the \\"arrogant bastard\\" everyone calls him. Both Rhis and Trilby are very good at fixing things and codes. Dezi reminded me a lot of C3PO. He liked to talk a lot and was mechanical. He did look out for everyone's welfare. Mitkanos is a wonderful supporting character as well. He is a gruff old man with a heart of gold and immediately takes Trilby under his wing. He has a grudge against Rhis as well. Rhis is Fleet and Mitkanos is Stegzarda. The Stegzarda doesn't like Fleet. Then is also Mitkanos's niece Farra. Farra and Trilby become good friends.  <BR> <BR>This is a wonderful story full of everything that you expect from Linnea Sinclair, romance, adventure and even a battle or two. It is engaging from the first page till the very end of the book. You won't want to put this book down! I didn't. The story is very realistic. You can picture yourself on the bridge of Shadow's Quest. This is a book that I definitely recommend to all lovers of Science Fiction!!!	2003-04-14
US	34844779	R3CFBQUZKREKKL	0595256716	358528944	The Butcher of Beverly Hills: A Screwball Mystery Featuring Kerry and Terry McAfee	Books	5	5	5	N	N	5 Star review!	from TT reviewer Angie Gibbs<BR>Kerry and Terry McAfee are identical twins, and fledgling investigators. Asked by their zany Aunt Reba to help a friend of hers, the twins embark on a quest to find a runaway husband, but the situation quickly turns into a quest to find a killer. Tooling around the posh streets of Beverly Hills on a pink Harley straight out of the pages of Biker Barbie, the twins get more than what they bargained for when they uncover an intricate maze of blackmail, drugs, and murder. <br />With the help of their Aunt Reba and Kerry's former boss, defense attorney extraordinaire Eli Weintraub, the twins are determined to find the killer of their former client. Throughout the book, you get introduced to a cast of wacky characters, and two precocious dogs, a Chihuahua named Paquito and a Pug named Muffy. You are going to fall in love with the McAfee twins. Kerry and Terry McAfee are twins with very different personalities that seem to complement each other, as much as they spark off of each other.  <br />Jennifer Colt has written a winner! A laugh a minute thrill ride, The Butcher of Beverly Hills will go down in history as a classic \\"who done it\\". From the first page, you'll be crying because you are laughing so hard at the quick dialogue, the kooky characters, and the hilarious situations that the twins always seem to find themselves in. Whether they are dodging police questions, getting beaten up by a mop-wielding janitor, or chased by an actor turned bodyguard, Kerry and Terry will hold your attention and keep you on the edge of your seat. The Butcher of Beverly Hills has been nominated in the Private Eye Writers of America/St. Martin's Press Best First Private Eye Novel Contest. This book is going to take a permanent place in my keeper collection. If you like a good mystery, you will not be disappointed.	2003-04-11
US	34844779	R1RBHUKH3II81Z	193169656X	244476468	Tyrant Moon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver<br />The Arrow that Flies the Farthest has finally made it to the Athraskani Stronghold. Now she is waiting to see if they will send someone to help her or not.<BR> <BR>Meanwhile, Vilhardouin is giving Thraxis a choice. He can either accompany the barbarian and help combat Balthazar, since it's his fault about Balthazar, or he can stay and father a child with a woman he hates, the beautiful Melilandra. Vilhardouin is expecting Thraxis to take the choice she wants him to. Thraxis is dying and Vilhardouin knows it. She really doesn't expect him to leave the Sanctuary again. Thraxis shocks everyone when he decides to accompany the barbarian to help defeat Balthazar. Thraxis knows that it is his fault that Balthazar has gone renegade. Balthazar's power is equal to that of a child. He stole the doyan'si that Thraxis made and is using the power it contains. He also laid a death spell on a book that he knew that Thraxis would eventually use. Thraxis will not give the council a child to treat the way they did him. He would rather go with the barbarian.  <BR> <BR>Thraxis and Vilhardouin go to the waiting chamber and meet Arrow. Thraxis notices all the tattoos that Arrow has. He demands a traveling robe and a staff. They will leave the next morning at dawn. Vilhardouin has no choice but to accept his decision. The next morning Arrow has her two horses ready and is ready to leave at dawn. She notices a servant bringing out a gelding to hitch to a wagon. The gelding is very bad-tempered and her horses just roll their eyes at his display. Thraxis has trouble controlling the horse and it runs out of the gate to the Sanctuary with him. Arrow catches up and they begin their journey.  <BR> <BR>The first night they spend at an Inn.  Thraxis doesn't eat meat, which causes a problem with the Innkeeper. Arrow notices that everyone seems to be afraid of Thraxis.  His robe is black and Arrow doesn't understand that black robes have a lot of power and that Thraxis is more powerful than any of the other Athraskani.  They get attacked that night and Arrow decides that they will leave immediately.  Thraxis didn't even use his power in their defense. Arrow finally asks him why when they camp that night and he tells her about the spell. Anyone with less power than Thraxis would have been dead already, but Thraxis is powerful enough to prolong his death. Whenever he uses magic, though, it weakens him and takes time off his lifespan.  <BR> <BR>As they travel, Thraxis and Arrow become friends. Arrow teaches Thraxis how to camp and take care of himself. They teach each their respective languages. They also begin to fall in love. When they finally get out of the Empire's territory, Thraxis asks Arrow to stop at another Athraskani's home. He wants the help of Viabold, another Athraskani. Arrow agrees and they proceed to Viabold's home. Viabold agrees to accompany them and do what he can to help. Viabold is congenial company and Arrow is glad of his help. Viabold is aware of Thraxis' feelings towards Arrow and teases him about that all the time.  <BR> <BR>They still don't know the truth about Arrow and she is afraid to tell them. She is afraid that she will lose their help if they realize that she once considered Balthazar her blood brother, that Balthazar changed her into a berzerker and that is was her tribe that attacked all of the other clans among the Skald.<BR> <BR>Thraxis undergoes the most change during the course of this story. He was a scholar and spent all his time studying in the beginning of the book. He is arrogant, self-assured and not used to doing anything for himself. Because of his illness, he is forced to do things by hand and not by use of magic. Arrow has to teach him how to make a fire, take care of the horses and set up and break camp. She is the first person that has ever treated Thraxis as an equal. She doesn't look down on him because of this, but understands and teaches him. Arrow is the first friend that Thraxis has ever had and he treasures their friendship. Arrow is the first female among the Skald to be named a Champion. The Skald use their Champions to fight and avoid blood feuds by doing this. Arrow has to fight to gain acceptance as Champion. None of the members of her clan believed that she would be able to fight well enough to win any of her challenges. Arrow has worked hard to earn the respect of her clan members. The more Challenges that Arrow wins, the more her clan chief wants. Arrow is finally forced to kill the Skald king. When her chief orders her to kill his own son, Arrow decides she can no longer be a part of this and runs away with him. They are hoping to defeat Balthazar and the clan chief. Balthazar has used magic to help them defeat all their enemies. Balthazar sees Thraxis as everything that he always hated about the Athraskani. He is also looking for the respect of his own kind and doesn't care what he destroys in the process.<BR> <BR>This is a wonderful fantasy tale full of battles and magic. The different societies and how they interact is a wonderful aspect of this book. The societies are all so very different from each other. I really enjoyed watching how the characters interacted with each other and began to respect each other for their strengths and realizing that they are more alike than they realized. I really loved watching Thraxis change from an arrogant slob that cared only for himself, into a man that cared deeply and was willing to sacrifice himself to save a way of life. This is a thrilling fantasy that I recommend to all lovers of fantasy.	2003-04-06
US	34844779	R16UKBWYBVVG7V	1592799655	894895049	Deserts of the Heart (Sons of Earth and Wind)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4.5 star review!	From Timeless Tales and Amy Turpin<BR>Prince Kadar Hamad is on the trail of an ancient sword belonging to his homeland of Durza. Stolen some twenty-five years before, the whereabouts of the Sword of Light has been traced to a little store in Seawind, California, owned by Faith Webb. Kadar's first can tell Faith is guileless, but he can't shake the feeling that she knows more about the sword than she is letting on.<br />Faith is astonished by the attraction she feels for Kadar from the moment she lays eyes on him, but has learned better than to let her heart get away from her. True, she has vague memories of a sword that has something to do with her mother, but she can't bring them into focus. What she finds out not only shakes her world, but everything she thought she ever knew about herself and her family.<br />Realizing that she must write the wrongs done to the Durazan country, Faith makes the trip to Egypt in hopes of finding the sword before the wrong people find either her or it. What she didn't expect was to be found by Kadar first.  <BR>Done is done, as they say, and since he is here, she might as well accept his offer of help. Okay, so it wasn't exactly an offer. He didn't want her going in the first place, but was not about to let her go alone. What she hadn't counted on was having to pretend to be his wife on the journey . . . which leads to all sorts of interesting situations.<br />Unfortunately, their happiness doesn't last and they are captured. Faith shows strength that she should have never possessed growing up as she did, and Kadar comes to realize that he loves her deeply and would give not only his life, but everything he has, including his kingdom, to keep her safe. But they are people of different worlds and her new home and family are blood enemies of his people.  He knows, as she does, that their love can never be, but can he bear to see her go?<br />Deserts of the Heart told Kadar's story exquisitely! The desert scenes were absolutely astounding and the reality Ms. Clark gave her characters was astonishing. The story was absolutely fabulous and I was able to fall in love with the characters almost from the very first. I would have liked to see a follow-up to what happened between Faith and her mother and stepfather, but that was the only thing I wanted for after this book was over. Except maybe the next book in the series. I look forward to that and other books from Ms. Clark. So far, my anticipation has been well rewarded.	2003-03-20
US	34844779	R21PMNCV0FZBW3	1591050820	279468520	Saratoga Summer, 1863	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Sam<br />At the age of four, Sinead Brennan loses her mother due to an accident with a horse. Her father then takes her and her sister from the Irish manor, where he had worked in the stables, to America. The lord of the manor, O'Malley, promises him that he will help him whenever he needs him. 20 years later, Brennan does need him and this is how our hero gets into the picture. It seems that Sinead has married a Catholic widower (in whose house she was a maid) because the widower's in-laws, the nasty Dewitts, want to raise their grandson in the Protestant faith. The widower dies, leaving Sinead in charge of the boy. The Dewitts take the matters to court, not because they want the boy, but because they want the money left to him by his father. And all this time, Sinead is living with the Dewitts, who insist on calling her Jane because Sinead is so Irish, as a nanny lowly servant. Now Brennan, Sinead's father, hatches a plot with O'Malley, where O'Malley's eldest son, Connor, is dispatched to America in order to marry Sinead so that the little boy can be brought up as a Catholic. And for some obscure reason, they all lie to Connor about Sinead's history.<br />Confused? I certainly was. The characters are very difficult to relate to, especially the heroine, Sinead. For 90% of the book, she stays mad and takes all her anger out on poor Connor. Now, one would think that a woman with that much anger bottled inside her and the will to pour it out on all those around her would be a tad bit assertive with the Dewitts, who after all pose the largest threat to her. But no, she is as meek as a lamb when around them. And as if the plot wasn't so complicated already, the first half of the book describes how these people try to get out of a New York gone mad with riots and mayhem. The biggest problem of this novel is that there are so many strands to keep a hold of, which is a shame, because the book certainly has potential. Ms. Nelson's descriptions of the aftermath of the Conscription Act and the conditions of the Irish are vivid. It is clear that the author has done a great amount of research before writing the novel. But as a romance novel, it is not up to par.	2003-03-18
US	34844779	R1PH1DWO59XE2D	0515135216	569070882	Dark Symphony (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 9)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	4.5 star review	from Timeless Tales and Amy L Turpin<br />Byron Justicano knew Antonietta Scarletti was his lifemate before he even met her. The music she played called to him and he knew he had found his other half. Knowing she will never be rushed into anything, knowing she does not expect to marry, he sets about showing her what it means to have a lifemate. <br />Antonietta comes from a great family. Blinded as a young child, her family heritage gives her strength and drives her to always do what needs to be done, no matter what the personal cost. When she meets Byron, she rapidly becomes obsessed with him, something she simply cannot accept of herself. Never realizing Byron is simply giving her time to get to know him and be accepting of his presence and his own heritage, she unintentionally falls in love with him. Which is exactly what Byron is counting on! <br />Being a Scarletti is not with out its quirks however. The legendary family has always been surrounded with mystery and tragedy. That has not changed in modern times. As it becomes apparent that someone in the Scarletti household is robbing their treasure vaults and attempting to kill its family members, Byron knows that he must keep Antonietta safe. He can only hope that she understands their differences and can be accepting of he and his people. <br />With the unique ancestry of the Scarletti's suddenly manifesting itself in the most dangerous ways and the attempts at killing various members of the Scarletti family increasing, Byron and Antonietta must find the killer before they can begin their life together. But what do you do when every member of your family has reason to be part of the conspiracy? <br />I have read every \\"Dark\\" book and I believe this one is the most unique of any of them. Ms. Feehan has taken a proven character type and altered him just enough to give a fresh perspective on her beloved Carpathians.<br />As a separate work, this book is still a winning romance. With heart stopping action, enticing mystery, sexy devoted characters, and just the right blend of humor, this book will definitely be a pleasing addition to the shelves of romance lovers everywhere.	2003-03-13
US	34844779	R2X3LGMPA10R0C	0515135216	569070882	Dark Symphony (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 9)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	5 stars!	From Timeless Tales and BEE AKA ESI<br />Byron is a Carpathian, an ancient species of the earth. Bound to find their lifemates or face the possibility of turning Vampire. Antonietta is a Scarletti, a family whose lineage goes back centuries. A famous pianist, who lost her sight, as well as her parents in a boating accident, the passion in Antonietta's music has drawn Byron to her and he sees colors for the first time in centuries, he's found his lifemate. Due to hard lessons learned in the past, Byron is determined to rein in his impetuous nature and woo Antoinette slowly. The question is, will he have the time to take the time? Something is not quite right in the Scarletti household. Heirloom treasures are disappearing, and there have been wild animal attacks in the vicinity of the Scarletti villa. Attempts on Antonietta and her grandfather's life demand that Byron move up his agenda to claim her as his lifemate. To Carpathians there is nothing as important as keeping their woman safe. Byron is adamant, however, that Antonietta be given the time to chose him as her lifemate. How will Byron balance these two goals? Dark Symphony tells the story.<BR> <BR>It is difficult to believe that Ms. Feehan has raised the level yet again on her Dark Series, the riveting stories of an ancient race struggling to beat extinction. With the addition of Byron's story, we see a continuation of the Carpathians who are willing [barely] to wait to claim their lifemates and a new lineage that may help to solve the problems the Carpathian race faces. She has seamlessly merged her Gothic story line from Scarletti's Curse into her Dark Series in a manner that makes this reviewer giddy with the possibilities for her future books. The richness of her characterizations and the broadening of an already extensive world will delight her already dedicated fan base. The compulsion to read her books will only draw more and more fans as her books continue to draw the critical praise they so richly deserve. The only problem you face after reading Dark Symphony is the interminable wait for Dark Descent, part of The Only One anthology coming in May.	2003-03-13
US	34844779	R1EKW37O43V1W5	1592799590	948668809	Windweeper (Windlegends Saga) (Bk. 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales 4.5 star review	By TT reviewer Susan Tam<BR>Windweeper is book three from the WindLegends Saga. The book opens with Conar and Liza trying to get back on track as a couple. In the previous book, Conar sent Liza back to her parents but he has come to reclaim his wife. However, her family has taken exception to her treatment at Conar's hands and they are set on keeping her safe. They refuse to let her return with him to Serenia until he proves he has conquered his problems. Conar seems to have control over his anger, jealousy and his drinking problem. Liza remains steadfast in her love and belief in him. Finally, Liza is allowed to return with her husband back to Serenia. However, the shadows of Kaileel Tohre and the Brotherhood of the Domination are not far behind. Kaileel has not taken Conar's rejection well. He is hell bent on destroying Conar and all that he holds dear -- his wife, children, family and friends.<br />Of the three books in this series I have read, I've enjoyed this one the most. It was the most balanced in terms of story and character development.  The violence was not overdone compared to the previous book. I experienced great joy and great sorrow and practically all the emotions in between. I enjoyed learning more about the secondary characters especially Legion, Brelan and even Galen.  You learn more about Kaileel and Conar's relationship. This book takes you beyond Conar and Liza's relationship.  <br />In order to understand the motivations, characterizations and storyline, I highly recommend you read the books in order. You can see the growth and maturation of the characters over these three books. I look forward to reading book four of this series when it is published.	2003-02-14
US	34844779	R2BABI1Z7EZTPJ	1591050294	120207865	The Man in Black	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review 4.5 stars	In February of 1990, Captain Lawton Kane is a Special Forces Army Ranger. His assignment is to kill a drug lord. What he finds is a kidnapped little girl. As the drug lord is dying, he promises revenge and that Lawton will die. Eleven years have passed since that day. He is now a Rancher and participates in Western reenactments in Graveyard Gulch, a partly restored frontier mining camp. That's when he first sees her. The group is called the Gulch Gang and they consider him a bit of a loner, a lone wolf. The group is amazed when they see him dancing with Melissa.<br />Melissa Anne Hartford is visiting her stepsister and best friend, Jo, in Arizona. Jo persuades Melissa to go to Graveyard Gulch with her. She sees him during the show, when a knife lands on the ground at her feet and he comes to retrieve it. She finds herself entrapped by the strangest and fiercest eyes she's ever seen. They are a pale silvery-gray, hard and pure as the desert sun's light. Time stops as she turns and freezes. Her head spins and her knees threaten to buckle, but she cannot look away nor escape the impaling intensity of those incredible eyes. Jo is trying to find a way to distract Melissa from her grief for her father and fiancé, who her father handpicked for her and she really didn't want to marry. She now feels responsible since she was wishing for a way to get out of marrying him, and whatever she wishes for sometimes comes true. Her father had always controlled her life and made all the decisions. After a group of sick kids come to visit Graveyard Gulch, she now knows what she wants to do with the rest of her life, work with sick children and be with Lawton. Will her next wish be granted?<br />From the moment they look into each other's eyes, they both know something is there. Lawton is afraid to get close to anyone due to the promise of revenge and the fact that his wife's car was tampered with, causing her death. So he tries to keep his distance from Melissa, but the attraction isgetting difficult to resist. Especially when she joins the group, and she is wishing to get to know Lawton Kane. She feels they have something in common, always on the outside looking in. When she first asks him to dance, she feels the electricity between them. Lawton is used to watching his back, but when Melissa starts getting threatening phone calls and someone tries to blow up her car, his military training kicks in to protect her. He invites her to come and stay with him at his ranch where he can protect her better. When she is at Jo's, packing some of her things, Jo takes a few minutes to fill in Lawton on Melissa's background, including being kidnapped as a child and the Rangers finding her. Lawton has already realized that Melissa is that child he carried out of the forest 11 years earlier. And he tells Jo it was he who found her. Jo also tells Lawton that Melissa's father had her hypnotized to forget the kidnapping. Lawton then realizes who tried to kill her, The stepbrother of the man he killed, Santiago. Will he be able to protect her from Santiago's henchmen while he fights his own demons of wanting to take her into his arms and make her his?<br />I really enjoyed this book. Once I started it, I couldn't stop reading. It keeps you on the edge of your seat, wondering what will happen next. It has suspense and romance and is definitely worth reading. As the old saying says, \\"Be careful of what you wish for, you might get it.\\"	2003-02-14
US	34844779	R1S95BY7XAKSAG	1553164865	502816848	Another Chance, Another Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Timeless Tales review 4.5 stars	By TT reviewer Marie Mclean<BR>Dr. Alec Edwards is going to another boring hospital fundraiser. His boss and his wife at the hospital, where he works, have been trying to get him to marry their daughter, who is definitely unbalanced. Alec is definitely not attracted to this woman, but she won't take no for an answer and ruthlessly pursues him.<br />A car in front of him is in a deadly crash. The man in the car dies, but the woman is still alive. When she opens her eyes and looks at him, she knows him. He is determined that he will not let this woman die. He helps her and stays with her until the ambulance arrives. But he cannot let her go without him and goes in the ambulance with her. You get the sense that he feels an attraction for this woman, yet he can't figure it out. Her name is Danielle Morgan, but he knows she is \\"Dani\\".<br />The story involves Alec and Dani's past lives together, when they were lost to each other in Cypress in 365. He was Demetrius and she was Adia and he left her pregnant and an outcast. Her life was difficult, his family would not acknowledge her and her family would have nothing to do with her because of her shame. He comes back, but he fails her. It continues with other lives they have together. And he continues to fail her.<br />The story has several interesting twists -- Dani coming to understand her dreams and her feelings and connection to Alec. Alec would not believe in their past lives, but finally -- before it was too late -- he did.<br />But the story involves more than just their past lives. It involves a sick jealous woman, determined to have Alec, even though he has no interest in her, and the woman's family, who try to get for their spoiled daughter what she wants. This woman confronts Dani and warns her to stay away from Alec. Alec has to convince her that this woman is obsessive, that he is not involved with her and that she is not his fiancée.<br />The book is far from dull. Not only do we have their past lives together, but it continues with Dani's life being threatened by an unknown woman (nurse), who attempts to poison her in the hospital with morphine and a dirty water solution in her IV.    <br />The story has another twist when Dani is falsely accused of sexual involvement with a minor. Her arrest and trial is very traumatic. But this time they see it through together and Alec does believe that their lives are connected from the past. This time Alec has to be there for Dani, not failing her has he did in the past.<br />The trial is not that believable. But with the obsession of the \\"other woman\\" and her family and the attempt on Dani's life in the hospital, they finally realize that they are meant to be together. Alec has to be there this time for Dani, when she is in danger at the end and they both realize how to right their past lives and get it correct this time.<br />The person who tried to kill Dani and who bribed a minor to say Dani sexually assaulted him was excellent. I knew it could only be one of three people, and I guessed incorrectly.  <br />The love scenes were passionate. I felt the two of them were meant to be together and I was pulling for them to finally get it right.<br />It is a wonderful story and I highly recommend it. It had the right amount of love, sex, suspense and this is one I would love to read again. In fact, I look forward to reading more of this author's books.	2003-02-14
US	34844779	R7TOVKENQZ2JQ	0971679029	715731982	Promise and Honor (Promise & Honor) (Volume 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review 3.5 stars	By TT reviewer Susan Tam<br />Promise and Honor is set in our country's most turbulent time, the Civil War. It was a time when friends became enemies and fought on opposite sides. Sam Prescott and John Graham are fighting on opposite sides. Sam is with the North and John with the South. They still maintain their friendship and when Sam's wife passes away, John's wife, Amanda, takes care of his daughter. During a battle Sam meets up with his friend and John is killed. Sam doesn't remember if he fired the fatal shot that killed John. Now that she is a widow, Amanda is forced to run medical supplies through enemy lines for money. She has an extended family to support and she hopes she will not be caught. In this mix, you have Lt. Colonel William Jackson, a family friend who takes an interest in Amanda now that she is available. Sam and Amanda's relationship moves from friends to lovers. But they have problems to overcome: he is a Yankee and her family doesn't like it (her mother takes great umbrage that he is a YANKEE!) and did Sam fire the fatal shot that killed her husband?  <br />Amanda is a strong woman and a survivor. She will do whatever needs to be done. Sam is an honorable man and tries very hard to keep his promises during this tough time. It is quite difficult to maintain a relationship during this time period, especially if the couple is on opposite sides. It was interesting to see how this was accomplished. The secondary characters were interesting, especially Jo and Holly. These characters were well developed and you are given great insight into their motivations.<br />The author has done extensive research into this time period and it shows. There are in-depth descriptions of the battles. You can visualize the deplorable conditions in the field hospitals. They are so vivid that you can well imagine what it was like and feel the suffering of the soldiers and civilians alike. With this book you have an enjoyable story to read and you receive a mini-historylesson as an added bonus!	2003-02-13
US	34844779	R2S18QDU1P7BOD	1583386459	670471757	Murder.com	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Elaine Leite<BR>You could say that Bud Nevers has it all. Bud has a beautiful wife of twenty-five years, Angie. He owns his own business, Nevers Computer Technology. Bud's best friend, Ken Weber, is his business partner. Things always look better from the outside looking in.<br />At the Nevers' anniversary party, Bud and Angie are entertaining all of their guest when the door bell rings. With the housekeeper, Marty, in the kitchen and Bud conversing with guests, Angie goes to get the door. She is caught off guard by the beautiful tall blonde stranger with the most piercing green eyes that she has ever seen. She introduces herself as Melinda and informs Angie that she is sorry for being so late and that she is here for Bud. Angie rushes over to her husband and informs him that a young stranger named Melinda has arrived. Bud leads Melinda outside. Angie could see that Bud is angry with Melinda. Angie starts to fear the worst. Could Bud be having an affair? <br />At Nevers Computer Technology, Bud has hired on an intern, Bill Crane, who is really eager to learn. As Bill is going through paperwork he comes across a questionable entry in the accounting books. ABC Wafer Company would take fifty-thousand dollars out on the same day every month for the past year. After looking at the stock market, Bill realizes that ABC Wafer Company must not be a real company. Bill explains to Bud what he has discovered. Bud knows that someone in the company is embezzling money from his company. Bud contacts his auditors to take care of this problem and informs his CEO, Ken Weber, about the discovery.<br />Just when Bud thinks that things can't get worse, Ken and Sandy Weber's twin girls are in an accident. For the next week, Angie helps Sandy take care of the twins. To Bud, the week is a big blur. He is sure that his problems only come in threes, Melinda showing up at the house, the problem with ABC Wafer Company, and now the Weber twins. Angie finally decides to confront Bud about Melinda after his golf game with Ken. But Bud never makes it home. Angie, scared and unsure of what to do, calls her friend Tom Hoffman, who is a detective. Angie's biggest fears come true. Bud is dead, but the worst part is that he was murdered.<br />Murder.com is one of the best books that I have read in a while. I could not put the book down. I wanted to find out who did it. When I found out I was blown away. Murder.com has so many twists and turns that it grabs a hold of you and does not let go. Ms. la Pierre has got herself a winner here. I will recommend this book to everyone I know.	2003-02-13
US	34844779	R3BV9CMEK9KGLD	158851174X	507653339	Night Crimes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chuck Gregory<br />Someone is stalking Lara Bello. She feels a presence, but hasn't actually seen anyone. Her husband Tony, head of the bicycle unit at his police precinct, thinks she is being a bit paranoid. She is becoming distracted, dismissing her art class early, her thoughts wandering. A stranger appears briefly in the classroom and leaves a card in her purse that says, \\"I am watching you.\\" Later, her son David is followed, too.<br />Meanwhile, Tony's unit finds a series of bodies of homeless people. They have drunk barbiturates mixed with wine or liquor, and they appear to be very happy. Word on the street is that the Death Angel helps those who are unhappy, by assisting them in their final exit from life.<br />David draws comic books and every week he spends the afternoon at Miss Browne's bookstore. Miss Browne tells him some of her grandfather's stories, and these end up in his comics. She is a wonderful lady and she has a great collection of rare books.<br />The Bello family has a lot in store for them in this book. There may be some relationship between these seemingly independent events. Or, there may not-and I certainly won't tell you, because Judith Colombo has done it much better than I could. I will tell you that when I read this book, I stayed up most of the night, and that I raced through the whole thing almost nonstop. And though I made several correct guesses as the story progressed, I wasn't even close on the major puzzles. But the evidence was definitely there, even though I didn't put it all together. The solutions are masterfully woven into the story, but often one question answered reveals many more that had not yet been asked.<br />Judith Colombo has taught at the college level, although her subjects are English, Analytical Thinking, and Research Skills rather than Art, which is her protagonist's area. Her husband, like Tony in \\"Night Crimes\\", is a sergeant of detectives. Their life experiences are undoubtedly part of the research for this book, and so it is not surprising that it has an extremely factual 'feel'. I have worked with homeless people, and mental health consumers, and I can especially vouch for the accuracy of those portrayals.<br /> Make sure you have plenty of time before starting this one, because you won't want to put it down.	2003-02-13
US	34844779	R35IRT2FWBT2S7	1894841786	865038715	Five Days on the Banks of the Acheron	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	3.5 stars<BR>By Tt reviewer Chere Gruver<BR>This book is a collection of short stories. It starts with a man trying to find out if his wife has been unfaithful to him or not. He works a lot of hours and is gone on business trips a lot and begins to doubt his wife. You will be amazed at how he determines this.<br />The next story in this grisly collection is &quot;The Ferryman&quot;. What starts out as a ride in an amusement park turns to reality when Robert throws two coins in the ferryman's bucket. He has always wanted Janice and he finally has the courage to ask her out on a date. He decides to come to the amusement park with her. So far, the date has been a dismal disaster. It turns out that Janice does not have a very strong stomach and the rides are making her sick. Robert decides to take her through the tunnel of love. At least she won't get sick on this one. Of course, after throwing the coins in the ferryman's bucket, everything changes from a ride in an amusement park to flashes of life. They see different images of themselves along the way.<br />From that story, we go to the Halloween party. Devin has wanted a chance with Jenna ever since the first time he noticed her. Now, he has an invitation to a Halloween party that she's giving. The invitation states to wear a costume that totally disguises the wearer. Imagine Devin's surprise when he gets there to find out that it's not exactly what he had been expecting. It's a party all right, but not for people. It's a party for ghouls and imps and other creatures of the night.<br />We also get to go into a grocery store. It's raining buckets outside. The guy that owns the store decides to open a few minutes early. An older couple is standing outside in the rain and he feels guilty about making them wait. After all, they have been loyal customers of his. Another man is waiting to get in the store as well. His name is Gillette, just like the razor. The old man slips in a puddle from a leak in the roof. He throws down his cane and no longer needs it to walk. He can now walk fine without it. He goes outside in the rain and immediately begins to dissolve. The owner of the store feels that Gillette just might have something to do with this. Gillette pops a few pills and falls asleep and the rain stops. Now the owner of the store is positive that Gillette is somehow controlling this.<br />And we finish this grisly book with a tale of the Old South. Nancy left Gene again. This time she left him for Phil. Phil has always had a thing about the Confederacy. He has a room in his house that he has devoted to Confederate artifacts. Phil has promised Nancy that he will advance her in her career. Well, it turns out that Nancy has a special gift. She can animate things, including bringing people back from the dead. She has done this with Gene and his friend, Rich. Gene decides to find an old Confederate cemetery, the one that has old Phil's ancestor buried in it. It turns out that this cemetery is hidden away because these soldiers turned to cannibalism to stay alive during the war. Now Phil wants Nancy to bring back these old Confederate soldiers. He claims it will definitely get her an anchorwoman's job at the station that he is on the Board of Directors of. Nancy really doesn't want to do this. Phil tells her that he will start her daughter Skylar on fire if she doesn't do it. She goes along with him to save her daughter. Just imagine how this one can backfire on him, which it does.<br />I have to admit that this book wasn't exactly my cup of tea. I prefer my horror to be more like Stephen King. This was more grisly than what I normally prefer to read. If gore is what you like, this book is definitely for you. It's full of it. This book is also full of incredible turns and twists and a lot of things that I didn't even see coming. I was surprised by the endings of more than one of these tales.	2003-02-13
US	34844779	R2SG3RUG9O8H8X	1843601540	6003264	Oath of Seduction: Seducing Sharon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	4.5 star review from Timeless Tales	by TT reviewer Pat McGrew<br />What seemed like a good idea at eighteen can come back to change your life at twenty nine. But, then again, at eighteen you think you know everything.<br />Sharon Glasten remembered back then she had been more than willing to sign up and take an Oath to become mated to a male from Shimeriau, an alien planet. Shimeriau had a shortage of females, so in exchange for advanced technology, the Earth had set up a draft system. It was your patriotic duty to register at eighteen, after all only one in twenty thousand was ever called to fulfill the pact. So now all those years later, here is Liken da'Kamon standing in front of her, claiming her as his pact mate. Looking up at his face, Sharon feels totally out of her league. Liken is 6 feet 7 inches of mouth-watering sexy appeal. He looked like he could see right though to her soul.  <br />Sharon knows she must leave the Earth and spend twenty-one days on Shimeriau with this giant, sexy as sin warrior. She just can't believe that this could be happening to her, a small town librarian. There was no way she could get out of this now, in ten minutes she would have to make the choice as to how her sexual relationship will occur. No female is forced to become a pact mate, but they must give the man a chance to convince them to do so. The choices are seduction, challenge or capture. She chooses seduction; sexual intimacies will progress in stages over three days, before Liken will be able to obtain ultimate pleasure of the full sexual act. Looking at Liken, Sharon is afraid that it might be harder than she thinks to leave when the twenty-one days are over.<br />She might not have taken seduction if she had known that Liken had been reading her mind for the last year. He knew her every fantasy and he had only two weeks to convince Sharon that she is the perfect mate for him. This is a role he is playing to win.<br />Author Marly Chance can certainly write a novel to get your attention. She had me hooked on the Shimerians from the first page. Who wouldn't enjoy a 6'7\\" psychic alien cop with black hair to make your dreams come true? The love scenes are sizzling hot and graphic. I can't wait to read the next installment, \\"The Oath of Challenge\\". I will be reading Marly Chance earlier works. This is a keeper for the shelves.	2003-02-04
US	34844779	R1IQM69LA2580M	1589392957	253175885	SOS	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Nancy Arant Williams<br />After a night on the town with friends, Dun Wheeling's head is spinning after too much to drink. But when a phone call awakens him, with the promise of a deal he can't refuse, well, even a hangover can't keep him down when money's talking. With debts hanging over his head, and precious little PI work available, he can't afford to ignore the summons for lunch at a luxury restaurant.<br />The man he's about to meet sounds like his worst nightmare, and he is. Aaron Sawgrass is a rich stuffed shirt, with too little hair and too much money, the kind he's all too familiar with. His kind have a reputation for wringing every ounce of effort from a poor working stiff, and usually find a way to finagle out of paying what they owe one way or another. But Aaron needs a big favor and plans to pay, or so he says. His sister, Sally Olivia, is missing. <BR>The problem is, since their wealthy parents died, it's been her responsibility to host the family foundation's telethon, and she simply has to be located before the big day. But there's a catch. Aaron wants her found within a week, and if that's not possible, the private investigator <BR>will forfeit half his fee.<br />If Dun wasn't so desperate for money, he would've gladly knocked the jerk's block off, but instead, he ups the ante, and tells Aaron he won't do it for less than fifty thousand. Checking out Sally's history, Dun realizes she's purposely run away from her brother, whom she can't stand anymore than he can, and in fact, she's been known to do this kind of thing before, going to great lengths to throw investigators off the trail. This time, though, he learns Sally hasn't just run off. She's actually been kidnapped. Before he even meets her, Dun is drawn to this beautiful, and courageous woman, whose biggest misfortune is to have an arrogant stuffed shirt for a brother. But will he find her before she is killed?<br />In this crazy mixed up whodunit, Ron Peters uses classic spoofto keep you guessing. With outrageous names, his characters inevitably fumble their way through each day. Their unpredictable antics are engaging, if a little goofy. But hold on, 'cause nothing is quite what it appears to be. If you're into klutzy whodunits, this one's for you. Rated R for language.	2003-02-04
US	34844779	R2F316Y9I1KMWI	1592799779	474938677	Facade	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Jameela<BR>Deputy Detective KC Tanner guards his private life much the same as his Doberman, Zappa, guards his home. He is content to live a life of solitude, hiding behind the wall he has carefully constructed around himself.  He has known Shar since she was 9 and he was 24. She is his best friends little girl. He has always thought of her as a little sister. So why, now that she has come home from college looking VERY grown up, is he having very un-brother-like thoughts about her?  <br />Sharalee MacArthur was raised by her father, Mike MacArthur Sheriff of McCreary County, after the tragic death of her mother. She has always known that KC was the man she would someday marry. Since her graduation from college, Shar has been serving McCreary County as a victim's advocate. She is hoping that now she has come home from college that KC will see she is no longer a little girl. That is, until reality shatters his isolation and dashes her hopes. A madman running loose in their homey little community has KC and Shar fleeing for their lives.<br />This is an excellent book. Rasey has included everything you look for in a true romantic suspense: romance, sexual tension, lies, mystery, murder and revenge. This book snagged my attention in the first gruesome chapter, and did not let go until the surprising conclusion. An unknown madman is killing people in very gruesome and gory ways. Rasey leads you to believe you know who is behind the murders, but with the revelation of each lie and subsequent mystery, you are sent down a different road leading to another possible suspect. Not only does KC need to solve this case, he also has to come to terms with his feelings for Shar. Because of the murders, they are thrown together on a professional as well as a personal level. The road Shar and KC travel to reach true happiness is a very rocky one; will their growing relationship survive to the end of this journey? Rasey has you guessing, \\"Who done it?\\" right up to theend and the conclusion is a surprise you will never expect. This is the first book of Patricia Rasey's that I have read and after reading this one I am eager to read her other books. I highly recommend this book to all romantic suspense readers and to anyone who likes a good murder mystery.	2003-02-04
US	34844779	R1452ENSUNHZF3	1591050405	368412455	Devonshire	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Hunter MCKenna<br />Miss Roselind (Rose) Golightly is waiting patiently for her wedding to Lord Richard Strang. Rose has resigned herself to spinsterhood and feels that she isn't as beautiful as her sister, Lizzie. Rose lives in Devonshire with her family and considers herself average looking. Humor and stress abound around the planning of the wedding; Rose can't fathom why Richard has fallen in love with her. Lord Richard and his twin brother, Gervase, arrive early. Richard claims he is impatient to be with Rose again and start their life together. <br />Devonshire is a sweet romance full of love, hate, and plenty of adventure. Rose comes across as a little insecure, but then aren't we all? Although Richard has faults, he is perfect for Rose. Both of the twins are tall, carry clothes well, and their looks stop women in their tracks, but Richard holds Rose's love. It is rather comical watching conversations stop and heads turn because not only are they identical twins and one has a title, but they are very striking in appearance.  <br />Devonshire spans the month leading up to the wedding and the events that happen. The story covers a case of smuggling, kidnapping, and murder. Smuggling along the Devonshire coast is a part of history and this story shows just an instance of it. The kidnapping of a few of the characters were so well written that you actually hated the kidnapper himself. The Devonshire coastline is so well described that you feel you are there.<br />The only thing bad I can say about Devonshire is that you MUST read Yorkshire first. Also both Devonshire and Yorkshire could be combined to create one awesome story. Devonshire is the second book in a very well written duet. So be sure to read the stories in order to thoroughly enjoy them. That said, if you are interested in a sweet story, pick this one up.	2003-02-03
US	34844779	R1ZGX17AZTXU6C	1403307679	459728293	Thy Kingdom Come	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chuck Gregory<br />In the not-too-distant future, Phoenix Mining Company operates on Earth's moon. While investigating 'anomaly 76' that showed up on their scans, a large sphere is discovered that dates back 2050 years-or to the time of Christ. The astounding discovery seems to lend authenticity to the FreeThinkers movement, and to debunk Christianity-for everyone assumes that it means Christ was a well-meaning alien whose teachings were misconstrued by his followers and their Judaic tradition.<br />Three investigators are chosen to determine what the artifact really is, and to explain its connection with Christ. They were supposedly picked jointly by President Allen Stone, head of the 10-nation Europarliament and peacemaker of the world-considered to be the most influential person on the planet-and by Pope Peter II, representing the Christian faith, which is soon to be simply an historic oddity. Stone is the prime mover behind the FreeThinkers, although Clinton Donahue is officially their leader. In actuality, Stone is a far more dangerous, more diabolical adversary of Christ; and he handpicked the team, with only the appearance of fairness, and forced his choices on Peter. The three are: Seth Putnam, FreeThinker, king of the Internet (which resembles our version as the latest virtual reality resembles a Punch-and-Judy show); 'The Cyberspace Crusader', an anonymous Christian super-hacker who continually battles Putnam, and who may be the only person in the world with skills in the same league; and Ivanka Tomara, an archeologist who \\"is always coming up with a comparative religion paper no matter what she digs up.\\" Inclusion of the Crusader will force him to reveal his identity to the world, an immediate victory for Stone, a precursor to the larger one he anticipates. The President further hedges his bets by sending Donahue and a team of mercenaries to 'clean up' if the investigating trio finds something he doesn't like.<br />It looks like the end forChristianity and the triumph of mankind. We are to become the 'lord of the universe' and cast aside the silly trappings of superstition...<br />But Christ may have something to say about that, and the prayer chain supporting Brother Oliver Hahn (the Crusader) and the rest of the team may help to give support against an increasingly bold adversary. Will Stone snatch defeat from the jaws of victory? Is there some other explanation for this sphere than Christ as space alien? These questions are answered in the book, but I won't reveal them here. You'll have to read them yourself.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book. When I first started to read it, I had some preconceived notions about it-mainly that it would be preaching at me. I even put it aside, 'not something I feel like reading right now.' I was very wrong in that initial assessment, as I quickly discovered when I attacked it with an open mind.<br />The author claims to write 'in the tradition of C. S. Lewis and I think there is some merit in that assertion. It's been a long time since I read \\"Perelandra\\", though.<br />I don't give 5.0 ratings, or at least I haven't yet and doubt that any book will impress me that much. So 4.5 is awfully high praise from me.	2003-01-29
US	34844779	R1XY3WLASYJ8YZ	1591090547	982477634	The Pinecroft Thoroughbreds	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Nancy Arant Williams<BR>Spunky Catie Cleary isn't having a good day. Riding is her passion, as is everything else concerning horses. But today, riding her favorite mount, she has been unceremoniously tossed over his head, suffering a head injury and excruciating fractured ribs.<br />More embarrassing than the fall is that it has been observed by a very handsome American, who stays near while Catie's grandmother goes for help.<BR>Catie, unlike most Irish lasses in 1903, cares little for men, or at least, hasn't until now. But there's something fetching about the kind and stunning man that is irresistible. <br />So far, she's been captivated by breeding and training horses on her father's breeding farm, Cleary Stud, in Ireland, but that is about to change.<BR>The American, it turns out, has come to purchase stock for his up and coming breeding stables in the Pine Woods of New Jersey, USA. Before she knows it, Catie has been wooed, and falls deeply in love with Charles Kendall, a prince Charming of a man she never dreamed of encountering in her lifetime. Married to him, she will be Lady of Pinecroft, his huge estate, where she will hobnob with the rich and famous of the period, namely Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt and their ilk.<br />But all is not rosy in Camelot, Catie learns. Family secrets have torn apart Charlie's family for years, but when Charlie brings Catie home, the lid threatens to blow off the pressure cooker of their lives.<br />Catie, a spunky, plain speaking Irish redhead, has no trouble speaking her mind. In fact, even with years of training and the finishing school she was finally tossed out of, she still hasn't overcome her angry use of slang. But, as she finds out, it has its uses.<br />When the family secrets emerge, they threaten to destroy relationships on both sides of the ocean-- if any of it becomes public knowledge. Will the family be able to cope with the revelations without disintegrating? And will Charlie be able to overcomehis fear that his own children will inherit the family curse? <br />In her amazing foray into the lives of the rich and famous of the early 1900's Selwyn Grames lets us see how very human are those in the limelight. From Presidents on down to humble Irish servants, we glimpse life as it was in the early twentieth century. Though sordid, and evil in many ways, one can't help be touched by the ordinary pain that extraordinary mortals endured, as, one day at a time, they made their marks in time. A very revealing look at history. Rated R.	2003-01-29
US	34844779	R25CIFWN1GF5CA	1876962186	22300392	Sunsinger, Book 1	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver<br />Bain is waiting in the empty governor's office. He has been sent from the orphanage with a message for Governor Cowrun. The secretary has already been evacuated. The governor has someone in his office, so he is sitting and waiting in the chairs. He overhears a conversation between Governor Cowrun and his visitor. The governor is asking his visitor to transport orphans to Refuge on her ship. The visitor is a Free Trader. The orphanage is located on Lenga, which is close to the Mashrami travel route. The Mashrami are attacking planets of the Commonwealth and Lenga is to be evacuated.<br />They come out of the office. The woman is Captain Lin Fieran. The governor notices Bain. Bain gives the governor his message. The Captain decides that she wants Bain on the first transport with her to help with the children. Bain's parents and grandparents were Spacers and all he wants to do is go into space. Bain knows that since he is an orphan, the chances of that happening are not very good. He has no one to sponsor him for training. The governor tells Bain to have Anyon, the orphanage's doctor, come and see him.<br />Bain goes back to the orphanage. He is very happy because he will be able to go in space with Captain Fieran. On the way back, he runs into Toly. Toly is the bully of the orphanage and always picks on Bain. Bain manages to get away from Toly and runs to find Anyon and give him the governor's message. As soon as this is done, he starts packing his belongings.<br />The children that have been picked to be on the first transport to Refuge get to the ship, Sunsinger, early. They are due to leave at dawn, but they show up the afternoon before. They have to act as crew to ready the ship for the passengers. There are also three adults going with the orphans. The woman takes the babies into an area to wait for the ship to be ready before they get on board. The men and the children board Sunsinger and begin the preparations. Later that afternoon Lin comes into the transport hold and asks Bain to help her on the bridge. Bain is so excited! He will actually get to go on the bridge of a real spaceship. He is very nervous and makes sure that he does everything right. The ship's brain, Ganfer, speaks to Lin through a collar that she wears.  <br />The Mashrami attack Lenga. They send a plague bomb to one of the farms. The Mashrami do not physically attack anyone. They send bombs and other things and let that destroy the inhabitants of a planet for them. They will now have to take an additional eight children with them when they leave.<br />They get everything ready for the departure. And, naturally, Toly is one of the additional children that are going on the Sunsinger. Just what Bain did not want to happen. Just before departure, Lin orders everyone into their stasis chairs. Bain helps get all the littles in their chairs and belted in. There is only one chair left. Someone barfed in the chair. Toly made one of the littles sick enough to do it. Bain runs up to the bridge and gets belted in next to the Captain.  <br />Bain helps the Captain whenever he can. Eventually, Lin makes him crew. He even gets to wear a collar so Ganfer can talk to him as well. This is everything that Bain has dreamed of. Lin teaches him about the ship. Bain is a Spacer and this is just what he wanted!<br />Bain is a typical little boy. He has a bully that picks on him and everyone else. He is an orphan and lost his parents six months before the voyage. He is coping with that and trying to fit in with the other orphans. He has never managed to make any friends with the other children. He sees Lin as a mother figure and does everything he can to please her. Lin feels sorry for Bain. She lost her parents in an accident onboard ship and has had to run Sunsinger alone with the help of Ganfer. She is a wonderful character and encourages Bain to learn. The character that I really loved in this story is Ganfer, the ship's brain. He has developed a personality and is just dying to tell stories to the children and help Bain. Lin and Ganfer have this wonderful relationship going on too. Lin is sarcastic and Ganfer just ignores her sarcasm.<br />I have to admit that it has been a long, long, long time since I have read a children's book, probably grade school. This is a wonderfully written, easy to read book that would still be challenging enough to engage a child's imagination. This is the kind of book I wish they had around when I was a child. I would have gotten into Science Fiction much younger if they had. This is a story that I can definitely recommend to all children.	2003-01-24
US	34844779	R3MWPNRYUNMEJM	1591293626	396777943	The Blue Marionette	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chuck Gregory<BR>Jaimie has been blessed, and cursed, all of his life. He is blessed with wonderful understanding parents, with privilege and a comfortable standard of living. He is further blessed with an incisive wit, a quick mind and deep feelings that he is willing to face and longs to understand. Perhaps most important, he is blessed with not only the admiration but also the true love of others. But his deep feelings can be a curse, especially when he is parted from someone he loves most. This happens more than once; the results are poignant and help to shape his attitudes and his innermost self. His is at the same time an uplifting and a heartrending tale, and in this way it has a strength that seems to lift it out of the computer or printed page and into the reader's heart.<br />I found this book extremely difficult reading. Several times I put it aside; it tended to penetrate too deeply for me to be able to go on. Each time that I stopped, I said to myself that it was worth reading, indeed very much worth reading-but I couldn't continue just then.<br />Stafford's prose has a lyrical quality that is almost hypnotic. His lush descriptions start from an event or a place, but move on to the realm of mind and emotion, and always there is an awareness of God, angels, fate, life and death. He mentions in his dedication that he had taken 60 years to finally write this novel. I am afraid it might take me 60 years to fully appreciate it, for I have developed the short attention span of our day.<br />I believe that if I could find more patience to relax and enjoy this novel, I would rate it far higher. It is so full of detail that it is overwhelming. Reading it is a bit like trying to stand in the center of a river after a dam broke upstream-you have to let it take you where it will, and not spend too much time trying to analyze as it goes by. Yet, on another level, it is well deserving of analysis, and so you feel you have missed something, and you wantto go back.<br />In \\"The Blue Marionette\\", Jaimie's eyes are blue, as blue as the sky in fairyland. Blue is the color of happiness for Jaimie, and Jaimie is happy, although always the happiness seems to end. For someone is pulling his strings...<br />If you have patience, and you enjoy layer upon layer of description and a slow but inexorable revelation of events foreshadowed from the start, try this book. It will reward you. If you, like me, suffer the impatience that is all but encouraged in this 21st century, you might want to spend your time on one that provides quicker gratification. Still, I must commend Elsan Stafford on his achievement.	2003-01-24
US	34844779	R2DCHEBLYQFLV6	1876962364	617430996	Spacer's Creed: Sunsinger Chronicles Book 2	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver<br />Chobainian Kern is so happy that he is getting to stay with Captain Lin Fieran on her ship, Sunsinger. He was afraid that he would leave Lin and the ship's brain, Ganfer, when they reached Refuge, but Lin wanted Bain to stay! He couldn't be happier. It's only for this trip back to Lenga to get more orphans to Refuge, but Bain will take any time he can have with Lin.  <br />Since they are at Refuge, Lin decides to treat Bain to dinner in the market. Of course, she also has other stops to make in the market as well. The first stop is more accidental than anything. Bain sees a harp. It looks very much like the harp that his mother had and was teaching him to play. The harp was in Bain's family for quite some time. It was his father's harp. Bain's father gave it to his mother when they married. Unfortunately, his mother's harp burned in the accident that also took his parents' lives. Lin knows the seller. It is Branda and she is related to Lin. Branda asks Bain about his mother's harp and he describes it to her. It turns out to be a harp that was made by her family.  Branda and Bain are related! Bain is excited by this and very happy. He has family. Branda gifts him with a beginner's harp and states the only price she will accept is his playing a tune for her when next they meet.<br />The next stop at the market is to buy Bain some new clothes. Bain can't believe that Lin actually wants to buy clothes for him. He is very happy about this and hopes that Lin actually cares for him. He remembers a jacket his mother made for him and he describes to Lin. She finds one very similar to it, and immediately has him try it on and buys it for him. Bain is so happy that he doesn't want to take it off. Then the two of them stop for something to eat.<br />The next stop is for lesson disks. Lin had to promise that she wouldn't neglect Bain's lessons in order to keep him with her. Lin teases him that she hopes to get some knowledge from the disks, too,since she didn't receive any kind of an education.<br />Once the ship is repaired to Lin's satisfaction, they leave Refuge to go back to Lenga. They settle into a routine. Bain has four hours of lessons, three hours of sitting on the bridge learning about the ship and has to spend time in the exercise wheel every day. During the evening, Lin and Bain usually watch some of Lin's entertainment disks.<br />When they get back to Lenga, they find out that all non-essential personnel have already been evacuated. Governor Cowrun sends the Sunsinger on to Dogray. This is the next planet in line for attack by the Mashrami.  <br />When they get to Dogray, they find Rangers there. The Mashrami must be close for the Rangers to be there already since they are the elite soldiers of the Commonwealth's fighting force. It turns out that Lin knows one of the Rangers, Gil. She helped Gil out when he was an orphan. It turns out that Dogray is having problems with pirates. The pirates are wearing fake uniforms and getting the people to leave their homes. Then the pirates kill the people and take all their possessions. Gil asks Lin if she will help them out by going to different farms and bringing the people back to the spaceport for evacuation. Now, they not only have to be on the lookout for the Mashrami, but pirates as well!<br />We have already met the main characters in the book \\"Sunsinger\\". This book is more about the developing relationship between Lin and Bain. Bain is also becoming more mature and taking on more responsibilities in the ship. Lin now calls Bain her apprentice and is constantly telling him that he does a good job. Bain is still very unsure of himself and constantly needs reassurance. Lin really wants Bain to stay with her, but will not make the decision for him. He has to make the decision for himself.<br />This is really an enjoyable series of books. I really liked the part in this one where the kids were in the canyon and disabled the pirate's shuttlecrafts. They also \\"fixed\\" the tent poles so the tents would collapse on the people inside of them. It was amazing how the children came up with this idea and carried it through. This is definitely a fun and amusing book that deals with relationships and war. The horrors of war come through, but not to the point of ruining the story for a child. It is dealt with in a sensitive, caring way. I definitely recommend this book.	2003-01-24
US	34844779	R1V134B388WUR1	1591291712	501083987	The O'Brien Series	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Elaine Leite<br />Detective Tyler O'Brien is very dedicated to his job. He is the type of detective that puts himself and his family last until he solves the case. He recently sold his own detective agency to go to work with the reputed Henderson and Co. O'Brien has a very good relationship with his boss, you could say it's a love hate relationship. They both try to bring out the best in each other. Henderson knows that he can count on O'Brien to get the job done and solve the case.<br />The first case that Henderson gives O'Brien is a three-week-old case that involves the killings of two young women. O'Brien takes the case. It takes place in the town where he grew up. Just when you think that there is no way any new evidence can turn up, O'Brien gets a break and solves the case.<br />Next, O'Brien gets a case that is very brutal. It involves the death of a homeless man who is mutilated and dumped on the train tracks. O'Brien calls on some help and finds out that there was a similar case that happened ten years before. This leaves O'Brien with no leads and no evidence of who could have done this. O'Brien and the boys from Henderson and Co get together to try and find the killer or killers in this horrible death. Days later, with four more bodies dropped off in different cities but with the same brutal mutilations done to them, O'Brien gets some help from a liquor store owner. He gives O'Brien a different look at these brutal homicides. O'Brien goes to check up on this idea that he has. With the killer one step ahead of the detectives, they pull out all the stops. Henderson himself gets involved to help O'Brien take down this madman.<br />The sarcasm that Henderson and O'Brien trade with each other gives the book the comical edge that it needs. This book shares with you the thoughts of a madman. The O'Brien Series really keeps you rooting for the good guys. I can't wait for book two.	2003-01-22
US	34844779	R2ENL4DWCMCG5S	1583450084	123418039	Natchez: An Historical Romance	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	by TT reviewer Nancy Arant Williams<br />Rebecca Bennett is stunned to learn that her father is forcing her to move from the only home she's ever known. She would do anything to stay in Savannah where, at age twenty, she'd have a better chance of finding a suitable husband. But with dreams of making it big, he has sold his mercantile, and is planning to purchase a cotton plantation in Natchez, Mississippi.<br />Rebecca realizes, aboard the riverboat, that she is easy prey for men when she is accosted repeatedly, only to be protected by a handsome and mysterious stranger. She can't believe her father could be foolish enough to cart a trunk full of gold aboard the boat, but he refuses to trust in banks, and she's no help at all when she accidentally lets his secret slip in front of a room full of strangers. When the riverboat collides with another, and sinks, the same stranger selflessly risks his life to dive into the water to retrieve her father and his gold. When, as a result of his heroic rescue, the man becomes terribly ill, she climbs into his bed to keep him warm, where eventually . . .<br />When her father is killed and his gold stolen, she not only feels responsible, but also can't imagine how she'll manage alone. As it turns out the handsome stranger is Oliver Sebastian, the man whose cotton plantation her father planned to buy. The chemistry between them is immediate, and Rebecca falls desperately in love, but there's just one small hitch. He's a married man, and he's moving back to England, which is the reason he sold his plantation in the first place.<br />The reader might lose hope of these two star-crossed lovers ever getting together, with twists and turns that will keep you guessing, but hold on, because Deb Crockett's characters will have you rooting them on. <BR>Though NATCHEZ has several unlikely scenarios, and some dialogue that doesn't fit the era, it's still a good read, and definitely worth your time. Rated R.	2003-01-20
US	34844779	R28Z734GA7WZ9N	1843600072	371099951	Stray Thoughts	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Timeless Tales Review 4.5 stars!	By TT reviewer Nicole La Folle<br />Sheridan Phillips is an aspiring author, who is working a dead end job as the administrative assistant of an engineering firm until her writing career takes off. After a terrible day at the office, a rainy commute home and a rejection letter for her latest submission, she hears a scratching at her fire escape window. She opens the window to find a huge black tomcat who casually invites himself inside. Sheridan shares her dinner with the cat and decides to let him stay the night. She names the cat Nick. The next morning she is disappointed when he asks to be let out after breakfast. <br />Nick is back that evening. Sheridan notices strange coincidences starting to occur. She needs food for Nick and finds a can of salmon she doesn't remember purchasing. She would like to have a fire, but doesn't have any firewood. The next evening, a neighbor shows up to give her the firewood he can't use. After a particularly long day at work where the boss has made her work until after 6, Sheridan ends up having to walk 9 blocks home in a snowstorm because of a traffic accident near her apartment. She winds up with a terrible cold. That night, she wishes that her boss would be in a car accident and off work for 6 months or so. After three days of recuperating, Sheridan returns to work to find out that her boss has been in a car accident, one caused by a large black cat.<br />Stray Thoughts is a wonderful story that combines the paranormal with a mystery or two. The romance is not as big a part of this book as the other elements, but it is definitely there as well. Ms. Stewart gives a realistic depiction of the life of an aspiring author. Her characters are realistic and lifelike and Sheridan's struggles will keep you emotionally involved from beginning to end. The story will catch you up and not let you go until you finish it. This book was the first I had read by Ms. Stewart, but it won't be the last.	2003-01-15
US	34844779	RZLTYAIQ0ME55	1931742014	380766343	Room for Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Lynne Temple<br />Cord Delafield's life is not going well these days. He just proposed to his girlfriend, and his proposal fell flat. He is in desperate need of a wife. He has one week to find a bride or he forfeits his right to his deceased Grandmother's house.<br />Refusing to give up, and let his estranged father win the house, his dream bride, Deborah, &quot;falls&quot; into his life.<br />Mistaking Cord for his father, Deborah storms into his life demanding a retraction on &quot;his&quot; eviction notice. As a foster mother, Deborah is desperate to contact the owner of her home to persuade him to let her keep her home and her foster children.<br />Cord finds himself attracted to the tiny whirlwind who is so emphatic to save her kids.<br />Devising a plan so they can both win, Cord keeping his grandmother's home and Deborah a roof over her head, which would mean keeping her kids, Cord suggests marriage.<br />It will take a lot to convince Deborah, who is determined to never marry again. With Cord and Deborah, their foster children, and a fond of disaster bunny, their search for happiness is marred by crisis at every turn. How do you achieve your goal when each triumph is marred by a test of love, patience and trust?<br />What a wonderful book! This is a must read. A true delight. The words flowed, and I found that I could not put the book down. The characters come to life, they are so well written, with the perfect touch of how life is not always fair, but with love, patience and trust, the worst things in life can be overcome. Cord and Deborah are characters that seem to leap off the page, but it is the foster children that really moved me, and tug at your heartstrings. How can you love a child that has so much anger and frustration built up? Room for Love is a wonderful book and I highly recommend it. This is a GREAT Holiday read, just in time to remind us what is important in life.	2003-01-05
US	34844779	R26D014GV8T22I	1894869869	258232476	A Troll for Christmas and Other Stories	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L Turpin<br />Anna-Lena didn't get what she wanted for her birthday from Santa Claus. In May. To say the least, she's powerfully upset. On a suggestion from her Dad, she writes a letter to Santa again. Only this time, the letter is quite nasty and definitely causes quite a stir.<br />Kalle is a troll working for Santa among the elves at toy production. He's not all that good at anything, tends to cause more trouble then anything else and no one likes him very much. After a particularly nasty incident, the elves decide it's time to teach little Anna-Lena a lesson. Since she wasn't happy with what Santa brought her last year (even though it wasn't Christmas) they decide they will ship her Kalle the Troll! What happens next is delightfully funny!<br />This was a wonderful, wonderful story!  Although I don't have any children myself, I do have several nieces and nephews and they all loved the reading of what they have come to call \\"Anna and the Troll.\\" I can easily see this story becoming a holiday tradition in my family!	2002-12-29
US	34844779	R156N68AJA4UY3	1894869842	638858173	Santa of the Lighthouses	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Nancy Arant Williams<br />1932<BR>    <BR>Even as a youth, Edward Rowe Snow grabbed hold of life with both hands. After graduating from Harvard, he throws himself into a career as a history teacher, taking every opportunity to coax history to life for his students and acquaintances on Boston's richly historical coast. At every opportunity, he uses costume and prop to enhance his wonderful storytelling gift. <BR>    <BR>When he takes a summer job as a tour guide to local historic spots, he keeps tourists spellbound with his tales. Routinely, while telling a ghost story about The Lady in Black, he stands by a black casket. As he spins the yarn, the casket, as he ignores it, slowly creaks open, to the horror of onlookers, and a black clad woman rises--the ghost herself! An experience not soon forgotten!    <BR>    <BR>Over time, he is intrigued by the history of the local lighthouses, and becomes acquainted with the lighthouse keepers and their families. He writes and has published their amazing stories. And it's clear to him, from the beginning, their dedication to keeping the lights burning also keeps them isolated, especially over long, frigid winters. <BR>    <BR>It isn't by chance that he meets a student, Bill Wincapaw, whose father, Captain Wincapaw gives Ed the chance of a lifetime, the chance to make history himself.<BR>    <BR>The captain invites Ed to ride along while they drop Christmas packages from a plane--to the excited lighthouse keepers and their families below. <BR>    <BR>From the first trip, Ed is hooked, returning year after year. When, after a few years, the student and his father move away, they bequeath to Ed the revered position of Flying Santa. But it's a [costly] proposition.<BR>    <BR>Ill-equipped to learn to fly, he and his wife, Anna Myrle, commit themselves to putting aside part of his small teaching salary each year to fund the gift purchases, special packaging, and the plane rental. No new car or nicer house for them. And each year, the tradition grows more precious to those Ed and Anna Myrle, dressed as Santa and Mrs. Claus, bless with their inexpensive, yet priceless gifts. They drop packages filled with treasures--balloons, books, pencils, paper, magazines, candy, coffee and small toys, things the grateful families can ill afford.<BR>    <BR>As one of Ed's students, Tommy Gibbons has been a problem from the beginning. Always failing in school, and in trouble due to his violent temper, Tommy has made it clear he has no use for Ed's love of history, nor later, his flying Santa routine. <BR>    <BR>When Tommy, now a dangerous adult bully, confronts Ed, threatening his family, Santa begins to doubt the value of his commitment. <BR>    <BR>Ironically, Tommy is forced, as a punishment, to spend a year serving as lighthouse keeper on a tiny, lonely island off Boston's coast. How will he respond to Santa now?<BR>    <BR>Though Ed, Anna Myrle and the lighthouse keepers are gone now, the legacy of The Flying Santa lives on to this day, bringing hope when it's needed most. <BR>    <BR>As a lover of history, this reviewer found this story both endearing and memorable. Bernie Schallehn and John Galluzzo bring the charm of the past to vivid life, making you fall in love with their vibrant characters, people who actually lived and made their indelible mark on history. For those of us who fondly recall the past as a time when loving our neighbors was the 'in' thing to do, this tale will warm your heart.    <BR>    <BR>A wonderful story of one small endeavor to change the world, through good times and lean, this one is truly unforgettable.<BR>    <BR>Hats off to Schallehn and Galluzzo for a remarkable and memorable story--a real keeper to curl up with on a cold winter night.	2002-12-29
US	34844779	R35T2NV29H5F7T	187696233X	574830431	The Tenth Ghost	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Patricia McGrew<br />At Darkbrook, a special school for gifted children to learn the magical arts, a young wizard by name of Ash is put under a spell by Clara, a chambermaid with a burning desire to be a wizard. Clara transfers Ash's magical powers to herself, then she makes him jump out of a tower window. <br />A hundred years later, ten-year-old Jacob Lane is awaken in the middle of the night by her best friend Emma (a ghost). Jacob's life is dramatically changed. Her parents have mysteriously disappear, her house roof is ripped off, and her home is filled with strange relatives. Jacob is having a hard time adjusting to her parent's funeral and new relatives that visit during the night and rest during the day.  Uncles and aunts decide that Jacob should be sent to Darkbrook, where the family's gifted members go for education. Fortunately, her friend Emma gets to come with her. <br />But Darkbrook holds many dark and scary mysteries. When Jacob gets lost in the tower, she encounters a ghost named Ash. Jacob finds that Clara has killed a student every ten years or so, taking their powers. Ash warns Jacob that she might be the next victim.  <br />Together with her new friends, Ophellia (a vampire), Emma and Ash, she has to deal with a missing Dragon Queen, the queen's young son, and nine other ghosts. Jacob must keep Clara from finding out that the young wizard she is looking for is really a girl.<br />Can Jacob and her friends stop the witch from killing any more students? Will she find her parent's murderers? Can Jacob save the Dragon Queen in time? <br />This intriguing tale of mayhem and magic will keep you in suspense till the end. You won't want to put this down. You will close this book at the end with a smile on your face. A must read for all ages! If you like the Harry Potter books, you will enjoy this novel. I kept finding parts to read to my grandchildren. I will keep this book to read again and again.	2002-12-18
US	34844779	R1DXJU3ALCFQ75	1894869567	100585008	Christmas Paradise	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Shannah Biondine<br />Tarralee Roessel breeds and trains sled dogs and wolves in the northwestern Cascade Mountains. Tyrone Shields is a Hollywood producer/director looking to make an important documentary film about wolves and wolf hybrids. He wants an expert animal trainer to work as technical advisor and is referred to &quot;Terry&quot; by her brother, David. David neglects to mention the animal expert is his sister.<br />Foul weather and a misunderstanding ending in gunfire and physical injuries to both Ty and Tarry combine to throw them into an unlikely alliance. But Ty is grateful for the opportunity to spend time with Tarry, wanting to persuade her to become his film's technical advisor. Tarry, a stubborn loner, has no interest in the project, but develops quite a personal interest in the film's creative genius.<br />Despite its title, this book isn't really a seasonal romance focused strictly on Christmas. The wintry setting lends itself to the holiday season and there are some pivotal scenes involving gifts and family togetherness. But the real storyline revolves around the question of commitment--and I, for one, find this a weak central conflict. A number of scenes felt contrived, and I would have liked to learn more about both the animal training occupation as well as filmmaking. The book glosses over these unusual occupations and possibilities for strengthening the conflict by enriching the characters through their work. Instead, it follows a standard plotline, with a jaded, handsome hero/rake and wallflower heroine who must prove she's much more beneath the surface.<br />Readers looking for light escapism along with their hot cocoa by the fire on a cold night should enjoy it.	2002-12-15
US	34844779	R35ZJFCFX98MG6	1904224946	113804843	365 Days of Lara Branson	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Teresa Bushek<br />When Lara Branson turned thirty, she gave up on finding \\"Mr. Right\\".  Now, with thirty-five approaching at lightning speed, she settles for \\"Mr. Tonight\\".<br />Lara begins the New Year hung over and reminiscing about the previous night's activities by recording them in her new journal, a Christmas present from her best friend, Fiona.<br />Fiona's life reads like a soap opera: legally separated from her husband after she caught him having sex with her sister in a guest bathroom on Thanksgiving.<br />After contemplating her odds for marriage at her age, and listening as her biological clock tick-tocks like a time bomb, she decides to try artificial insemination.  She sends away for a donor catalogue and begins to pick and chose through the options.  <br />Only she keeps her decision to have a child on her own a secret.<br />Her parents would be shocked, and vocal with their disapproval.  Especially her overbearing mother whose only goal in life seems to be to see Lara get married.<br />When the third attempt at insemination \\"takes\\" and Lara's pregnancy test comes back positive, she longs to confide in Fiona.  But before she has a chance, Fiona drops her own personal bombshell: her sister is pregnant with her husband's child.  To make matters worse, Fiona herself is unable to have children.<br />Lara struggles with the day-to-day routines of running her own business, dealing with her meddling mother and the never-ending comparisons to her \\"perfect\\" sister, and the secrecy of her unborn child which includes the not so glamorous first trimester. <br />The last thing she needs in a man in her life.  Or is it?<br />When Lara meets the man of her dreams (well, fantasies), her world and her ideas about marriage turn upside down.  <br />Reading \\"365 Days of Lara Branson\\" is like the forbidden pleasure of snooping in a friend's diary.  Written in first-person narrative, the characters of Kit Tunstall entertain and evoke emotions. Set in the town of Boise, Idaho, the story has a realistic feel of being true to life that every reader can relate to. Each journal entry will make readers laugh, cry, hope, and anticipate along with the main character, Lara Branson.	2002-12-05
US	34844779	R3GGXKXV9KW9FE	1928670415	480569931	Martha's Madness	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />Brittany and Tony have been in love for more than fifteen years, but life led them both in different directions. Tony married Brittany's roommate, Carolyn, and Brittany married a friend of Tony. Tony has since divorced and although Brittany is still married to Michael, she knows their marriage leaves much to be desired. Tony and Brittany have remained close friends throughout the years, but since Tony's divorce, Michael has constantly thrown up barriers to their friendship, sensing their mutual attraction, and having his own issues to deal with.<br />When Michael wants to end he and Brittany's vacation sooner than expected, and to miss Carolyn's wedding, Brittany goes anyway, knowing Michael will be furious with her. When she returns, she finds Michael gone and a message assuring her he will be seeking &quot;company&quot; elsewhere, since she was unwilling to be at his side. Brittany realizes her marriage is over at this point. It just takes a couple of conversations with Michael, and knowing exactly who he has been spending his time with, to confirm that fact.<br />Meanwhile, Tony has encouraged her to live the dream she has always hoped for. She'll start a business of her own out of a house her Aunt Martha willed her. With Tony's financial backing, she starts her own Bed and Breakfast and finally starts realizing all she is capable of accomplishing on her own. It is then she starts acknowledging to herself, and to Tony, how important he is in her life, and is surprised to find he returns her feelings. Feeling unworthy because of her low self-esteem and because of her past, which contributed to the latter, she still feels she is Tony's &quot;second choice.&quot; It is up to Tony to prove to her how wrong she is.<br />But Tony has more things to worry about than convincing his one true love how very much she means to him. His grandmother has become ill, and has decided it is finally time for him to take over the family business. Theproblem is, in order to do that, she expects him to make his life on the East Coast rather than the West, where Brittany is, and that is something he is simply not willing to do.<br />This story is about the one thing that is most important in life - true, everlasting love. What I liked most about this story was Tony. He never tried to hide his feelings from Brittany, and he was intelligent and perceptive enough to ferret out all her insecurities and dispel them. Brittany's character was very realistic to her personality type. Once knowing her past, I could see how, with everything she endured, she would feel was no more than she deserved. I did feel that the two main characters could have been developed a little better, but the main idea about them came across in the end. Overall, I found this story warm and heartfelt and would recommend it to the romance lover.	2002-11-25
US	34844779	R39ZKPQB65QTN9	1894869745	750890514	Bourbon and Bliss	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Elaine Leite<br />Palmer Morel, under any normal circumstances, would be a down to earth, easy going type of guy. Except he has this dream that would make any one uneasy. He and his girlfriend, Corky Kennedy, decide that they need some time to rest and adjust to their new wealth. Palmer has received a three million dollar inheritance. So they take a three week vacation to New Orleans.<br />During their stay, Corky decides to invite her long time friend, Bliss McCarthy, to come down for a few days and enjoy the sites of the Big Easy. No one would ever forget Bliss McCarthy. You could say that she is an Amazon, six feet tall with blond hair. Any man's fantasy would come to mind and she knew it. She attracted attention every place that she went.<br />When Bliss arrives, Corky fills her in on how wonderful the city is. Not to mention that they are filming a movie right down the street from where they have rented their apartment. Corky's favorite movie star, Mark Christopher, is in the film. They think that it will be exciting to go and visit the set. What they are not expecting is that Bliss will attract the attention of the director of the movie, and that he will cast her to do a sexual scene with none other than Mark Christopher himself. Mark, being the playboy that he is, invites Bliss, Corky, and Palmer out for a night of fun.<br />Palmer isn't sure if this is a great idea, until he sees how happy Corky is to be invited to go out with Mark, so he goes along with it. Bliss, on the other hand, wants more with Mark. Bliss finds Mark very attractive. She has been turned on by him after their sex scene and can't stop thinking about him. Mark has the same idea of Bliss that she does of him.<br />Bourbon Street is no ordinary place. But the three of them never would have thought that Mark could get them into the trouble that they find themselves in. Sex clubs, drugs, the Mob and murder.<br />Bourbon and Bliss is a book that makes you wonder how much troublethese four people can get into. I didn't want to stop reading until I found out. After I was done, I just said to myself, \\"unbelievable.\\"	2002-11-22
US	34844779	R2CMB69IP4ZOM1	1930252986	79132223	Puppet Child	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Sandra Ray<br />Talia Carner creates a complicated legal world in Puppet Child as she describes one mother's fight to save her child from repeated sexual abuse. The book opens with a depiction of graphic sexual abuse of an extremely young child. The descriptions add to the suspense; however, they add an element of discomfort that squeamish readers may not appreciate. The reader experiences first-hand the consequences of child sexual abuse through the eyes of a young girl. The aftermath of the abuse is handled well, even though these scenes are equally disturbing.  <br />Rachel Belmore is determined to keep her daughter's abuser from repeated contact. This is made even more difficult since the child's father (Rachel's ex-husband) is the culprit. In the midst of her legal battles, her attorney leaves the case, and Rachel not only has to find a new attorney, but also must work through some of the personal ramifications of the situation. Her supervisor at work does not understand her repeated absences from work, and her sister thinks the abuse is made up and Rachel's daughter is simply a \\"brat.\\" The preschool workers feel ill equipped to handle the situation and soon asks Rachel to remove her daughter from childcare. Rachel loses a potential fiancé when he feels smothered by a surprise inspection by Child Protective Services and the needs of an abused child. Finally, Rachel ends up in jail for contempt of court when she hides her daughter to circumvent a scheduled visitation. The series of events meld together, showing the reader how complicated the personal and legal situations can be and how quickly a person can be overwhelmed by all of it.<br />The final chapters mount the suspense, bringing the work to a dramatic conclusion. Rachel learns more about herself and her friends and family along the way, teaching her hard lessons in who is able to help her. The ending leaves the reader satisfied with the overall story. There are still some avenues Carner could have explored. Still, the story ties together nicely, despite the uncomfortable nature of the subject.	2002-11-17
US	34844779	RISMH00R4GXV3	1894869737	604508746	Listen To the Mockingbird	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Brenda Gill<br />Owning and operating a horse ranch in Mesilla Valley, New Mexico was one thing Matty Summerhayes never expected to be doing when she was a student at the Bartholomew's Ladies Academy. But since she owns the ranch, she has two goals, to build up the ranch, sell it, go back east, and keep her past secret. One night, a young stranger is shot and killed in her barn. In a pouch around his neck, Matty finds a piece of paper with markings that look like a map of her ranch. She wonders about it, but soon other matters take up her time. The Civil War has just started and the army wants her horses. She manages to sell only a few horses for much less than what they are worth, but worries that the army will come back and take the rest. If this happens, everything she's worked for the last six years will amount to nothing. But this is the least of her worries. A drifter, Tonio Bernini, comes to the ranch and asks to stay on her land in some caves called the \\"cuevas\\". Matty agrees, but tells him he must be gone before winter comes.<br />Tonio is an unusual man. He doesn't have a horse, but walks everywhere he goes. He's very knowledgeable of the healing properties of plants and herbs. Matty is very attracted to him, even though she knows that he is keeping secrets about his past.<br />Matty gets an offer to buy her ranch from a man nobody knows anything about, just that he is from Texas and is a Union soldier. Matty refuses to sell the ranch and dangerous things begin to happen. A brush fire is mysteriously started that almost burns down the house and barns, some of her cattle are killed along with her prize stallion, and Julio, her foreman's son, is murdered. Winona, a free black woman who lives on the ranch with Matty, is accused of being a witch and almost burned to death. Matty finds out that a gold mine might be on her ranch and someone will stop at nothing to own it. What does Tonio have to do with everything? What does he know about the mysterious map? Secrets and lies from Matty's past are about to be revealed and she must fight for her life against a dangerous enemy.<br />This book starts with a wallop and steadily builds to a gripping conclusion. Listen to the Mockingbird vividly re-creates the dangers of life in the New Mexico territory during the Civil War and one woman's triumph over adversity. Matty is a strong woman trying to make her way in a man's world and succeeds admirably. The romance between Tonio and Matty is poignant and sweet. Tonio isn't the usual alpha male, but he is still a great character. Penny Rudolph is a great storyteller and if you like westerns with a touch of romance, you'll like this story.	2002-11-17
US	34844779	R36VRM6M3EBBEX	1894869796	981771019	Lady of the Knife	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver<br />Thomas is on his way to his wedding to the Lady Evelyn of Silvadale. In Alanadon, things are done a bit differently than they were in England. In Alanadon, the eldest child inherits the estate, regardless of sex. Thomas's eldest sibling, his sister, Lady Carolyn, has basically sold him into marriage. When Carolyn inherited the estate, she learned that it was basically bankrupt, and Carolyn has four sisters and Thomas to take care of. Thomas was naturally very upset when his sister told him about the wedding, but he accepted his responsibility and agreed to the match. See, the weddings are also very different in Alanadon, they can be written as a two-year contract. Upon inheriting, a child must be produced within two years; this is the reason for the two-year wedding. <br />On the way to Silvadale, Thomas is kidnapped. He is trying to get out of the rope that he is tied with, when all of a sudden, someone dressed all in black cuts the bonds and asks if he can use a sword to fight with. He readily agrees and the battle between the black dressed people and the kidnappers is on. Thomas finds out his rescuers are the Wolf Pack. The Wolf Pack is a force for good in these times. The Leader tells Thomas that they were sent by the Lady Evelyn to rescue him. Martin, who was sent by the Lady Evelyn to escort her groom and his family to Silvadale, and the rest of the rescuers leave. The Leader states that she will have Thomas to the wedding in time. Once they are all gone, Thomas asks the Leader to remove her mask. The Leader turns out to be a beautiful woman with long black hair. The two of them spend the night together, and Thomas loses his virginity the night before he is to wed Lady Evelyn. He realizes this is just a one-night stand.  <br />The two of them make their way to Silvadale. The next morning, Thomas is speaking to one of his older sisters, Emma, when he sees his bride-to-be. She is dressed all in white with a heavy veil hiding herface. They go into a room to talk and it turns out that his bride is none other than his rescuer from the night before. Thomas requests that they have a real marriage. He has been trained with books and would like to be the real lord of the estate. Evelyn agrees to the marriage and they are already halfway in love.<br />Martin asks Emma to dance after the contracts have been signed. Emma was betrothed before. When her betrothed found out that the estate was bankrupt, he broke the betrothal. The physical part of the their relationship left a lot to be desired, and Emma wants nothing more to do with men. She has gone into training to become a midwife and is quite happy to do that for the rest of her life.  <br />Evelyn becomes pregnant with Thomas's child. As her time comes close, she asks for Emma to stay with them to attend her at the birth. Emma comes to Silvadale and takes charge of her patient. All that Emma and Martin do is fight constantly, about every little thing. Evelyn takes off on her morning ride with a different groom, and never makes it back to the castle. She has been kidnapped. Martin was with Evelyn in the ISB and they created the Wolf Pack together. Now, Martin is determined to get Evelyn back. Thomas demands to accompany him. Of course, Emma is not going to left behind either. So the three of them set out to find Evelyn and save her.  <br />This was a wonderful fantasy tale. I really loved the Alanadale Society and it's different organization. It was filled with adventure, danger and excitement, plus the bonus of two romances, that of Thomas and Evelyn and Emma and Martin.  The story also dealt with Thomas becoming a man and a leader. It also dealt with the healing of Emma and of Martin and they each overcame their pasts to accept the other as the person they were and as equals, which Evelyn was also forced to do with Thomas. This was a wonderful tale and I recommend it to all lovers of fantasy and romance.	2002-11-17
US	34844779	R60J3OUNSV1MV	0970662254	545958495	The Silent Scream (Diskette: PDF, PRC, LIT)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer John Richard<br />Richard Clifford, a deaf boy living on a farm with his mother, arrives home after a motorcycle ride.THE SILENT SCREAM is a fast read, blazing through the pages with the speed of a falcon in a dive. The main character, Tom Casey, and his wife are in a sense, the modern version of Nick and Nora Charles, only with their own unique bent. Tom's disfigurement for example only adds to his likeableness. Plus he's caring and compassionate, and almost non-violent, which are very rare elements in the modern PI story. The only downside though, is the ending, which slowed after the climax, though thirty pages remained! Despite this minor shortcoming, the novel is an amazing read, going back to the age where the PI often referred to his mental skills, got along well with the police, and often assisted them in the investigations. A delightful read for any mystery lover, though especially for those who miss the golden age of the thinking PI.	2002-11-15
US	34844779	R2LCGIDICN6LOG	193169690X	499399046	The Anonymous Amanuensis	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver<br />Evelyn Dixon is definitely not happy with her life. Since the death of her father, she has been living with her aunt and uncle in Yorkshire, and they treat her like the lowliest servant. All they do is berate her and tell her that she does barely enough to pay for the food they feed her. Fortunately, Eve's uncle, Chas, is currently visiting. He is on leave from the war right now. Eve begs him to write her a letter of recommendation. Eve has decided that she can no longer live this way and needs to try her hand in London. She really wants a job as a secretary. Chas tries to talk her out of it, even tries to get her to find a job with a school. Eve doesn't feel that she is well suited for that type of work, but she worked as a secretary for both her grandfather and her uncle. Chas finally gives in and writes the letter. So, with the small inheritance that Eve has managed to save, she goes to London.<br />In London, she finds a room at a boardinghouse. She goes to register at seven different agencies, but they all tell her that she will never be able to get a job as an amanuensis, that these jobs are always held by men. At the last agency she tries, Eve meets Tom. Tom is currently holding a position as a secretary, but wishes to go into politics. Tom and Eve become good friends. Tom tells Eve about a position, but states that the man will not have women in his house. Eve hatches the brilliant scheme of masquerading as a man in order to get this job. She has Tom purchase clothing for her.<br />By some quirk of fate, she fools James Quinton well enough to land the job. Of course, her uncle, Chas, is one of Mr. Quinton's best friends and his recommendation scored her some major points. Eve is given Wednesday afternoons and Sundays off and a room in Mr. Quinton's house. Eve spends most of her time off with Tom. She loves the freedom that posing as a man gives her. She is free to travel the docks in her capacity as secretary to Mr. Quinton,which she would never be able to do as a woman. She meets one of Mr. Quinton's employees, Mr. Mosely, on the docks and the two of them become good friends. Tom keeps telling Eve that he does not like her posing as a man and no good will come of it.<br />Eve loves her job and is very good at it. Mr. Quinton has already told her that she is the best secretary that he has ever had. Eve finds herself developing a tendre for Mr. Quinton.<br />How long will Eve be able to keep pretending to be a man before she is found out? What will happen between her and her boss, Mr. Quinton? What will Chas do when he finds out what Eve has done?<br />This book did definitely get into some heavy issues. There were a lot of women subjugation issues involved here. Just the fact that as a woman, Eve would not be able to walk on the docks unaccompanied, but as a man, she can. It is kind of a sad reflection on the times that women could not even be employed as secretaries, but had to be shopkeepers, companions, governesses or school teachers if they were high born. They had no choice in their occupations. There definitely weren't that many opportunities out there for women then and this book did definitely show that. <br />This is a delightful Regency romance. I truly enjoyed this book and definitely recommend it to all lovers of Regency romance. Ms. Glad has definitely written a good, entertaining book. This is a bit of change from most Regencies. There is no mystery involved in this book. I found this to be a delightful change of pace. The book is very well written. The characters are real and believable. Eve is a very strong woman as James is a very strong man. The secondary characters were all delightful as well.	2002-11-15
US	34844779	R5S4X209TE934	0759901880	601328728	Wolfkin	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin<br />Yozerf Trihychyl owes a life debt to the wizard, Ax. After thirty-four years, Ax has offered him a chance at freedom for doing a simple task. But since when has any task Ax has sent him on been simple? The half-breed Aclyte soon finds himself within the band of humans he has been charged with helping and protecting and their welcome isn't a friendly one. Banding with the humans goes against his every instinct, but if he would be free of Ax's influence in his life, this is a task he must complete. His freedom and the fate of the known world depend on it.<br />Suchen Keblava is the steward for her Lord Auglar in his kingdom. Trained in swordplay and battle as a man, she is approached by Ax as well. Telling her of a pending evasion from the north by the Undying Emperor Jahcgroth, he sets her with the task of escorting a young noblewoman, Trethya Selista, back to meet with Lord Auglar. With the promise of sending her aid in an unlikely form, Ax departs and leaves Suchen to convince Auglar to allow the quest, and also leaves a cryptic message for the Lord.<br />With his fears all but confirmed as to the state of the Queen of Nava Yek, where Lady Selista is bringing the final confirmation, Lord Auglar sends Suchen with his Sworn to bring the Lady to him. Once they have Lady Selista in hand however, soldiers from Nava Yek ambush them and would probably have overtaken them if not for the stranger Yozerf. Suchen is immediately in awe and fearful of him, but the fear soon turns to admiration and their tenuous alliance is formed.<br />The Sworn soon find out that they have gotten into more than they bargained for. Their world had gone mad, it seems, when serving maids turn into grotesque gargoyles and wolves attack selectively in a town full of people only to disappear. Suddenly, getting back to Kellsjard alive seems to be just one step beyond their reach. On reaching Kellsjard, they find not the haven they hoped, but more problems.<br />Treachery and deceit lie within their midst, and the blame is passed around, with Yozerf among the suspects. With the upcoming battle approaching and everything hanging in the balance, it's time to ask if the ends truly justify the means.<br />With fantastic characterization and intelligent dialogue creation, author Corvidae has created a fantastical world with wide cultural diversity. For the lover of fantasy and fantasy romance, this book is definitely for you! A page-turner from start to finish, you won't want to miss WOLFKIN.	2002-11-15
US	34844779	R3SBXIOSQ3455W	1843601907	241133373	Strange Lust	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review by Teresa Bushek	The title of Scott Carpenter's book, Strange Lust, says it all. This is a collection of more than twenty short stories of erotica that each end with a twist. The endings range from the bizarre to the comical and everything in between. Each will make you stop and think. <br />Stephanie and Don, a young couple driving their jeep to a weekend-getaway cabin, become aroused during the trip. Unable to contain their urges, they pull onto the shoulder of the road. Just as their passion climaxes, they realize they are not alone.  <br />Another story shows how sometimes irony and humor go hand in hand. A husband known for his excessive extra-marital affairs and his wife seek help for their problems. As a last resort, they employ the assistance of a hypnotist. After the husband confesses in detail about his extracurricular activities, the hypnotist uses the power of suggestion to limit his attractions to only his wife. Will the plan work?<br />A story entitled &quot;The Quickie&quot; was quick, and whimsical. Written completely in dialogue, it said so much with so little. Very creative and good for a day's worth of laughs.<br />Kate is 28, single, and on her way to meet who she hopes will be the man of her dreams. They met on the Internet but, until now, have not met in person. When she arrives at her destination and steps off the plane into the airport, she is pleased to find he is more attractive than his picture. Or is he?  <br />Rachell and Lars seem to be a perfect match when they meet at a college party; both dressed in black with piercings adorning various body parts. When their passions take over, more than their legs become entangled.<br />Carpenter aims his collection, Strange Lust, toward a mature reader. With graphic language and descriptions rich in detail, these episodes are hard-edged and while many of the stories end with funny plot twists, the humor is not for everyone.	2002-11-11
US	34844779	R2IR1EV5JRY33R	1843600676	650858020	Full Bodied Charmer	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Timeless Tales review by Diana	<br />I enjoyed this entertaining and fun book immensely. Full Bodied Charmer is a well-written, fast paced and sensual story, while also being sweet and romantic. The characters are fully developed and their relationship and love for each other develops at a believable pace. Very few books deal with real characters like our heroine, almost all of the heroines in today's contemporary romances are tall, beautiful and \\"willowy\\" or petite, beautiful and a \\"perfect size six\\". Full Bodied Charmer deals skillfully with our preconceived ideas of what or who will make us happy. Along with the romance of Rick and Jennifer, the story has interesting and enjoyable secondary characters, especially Jennifer's best friend Cherica Martin and Rick's friend and business partner Troy Hunter, who has married a full-figured girl of his own.	2002-11-11
US	34844779	R3LT00ITQINYX7	1843600412	874837783	Alien Games	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review by Briana Lambert	Bruce Glenn and Jenna Walsh are at the top of their game. As respected athletes, they are both newly crowned winners of the World Triathlon Championship. They are definitely at the top of their game physically. Jenna, however, is unable to let anyone get close to her and has acquired a reputation as a great competitor but a nasty person. Most people have learned to keep their distance from Jenna, but Bruce continues to try to approach the other athlete. He has been attracted to her for quite some time and  even though he knows that he is setting himself up for a fall, he cannot resist congratulating Jenna when she becomes the winner of the race. She replies in what has become typical Jenna fashion, distancing herself from Bruce.<br />Unbeknownst to the champions, their athletic abilities have garnered them some unwanted attentions. An alien race has been observing them. After the competition is over, Jenna and Bruce seek some down time at the same resort. They are easy prey for the aliens who kidnap them and bring their to their spaceship. As prisoners, they go through the humiliating experience of examination by the aliens. Soon, they discover that they are not alone and are just pawns in a larger, sinister plan.<br />As Bruce and Jenna grapple with their kidnapping, they begin to grow closer. Jenna lets down her guard and embraces the familiar to her. Bruce is amazed by the changes in Jenna and cannot help but to grow closer to her, even as they and the other kidnapped creatures try to find a way out from under the oppressive control of the evil aliens.<br />Alien Games is a fascinating what if scenario. The author had me rooting for Bruce and Jenna from the early pages of the book. The other alien life forms are varied and vivid descriptive passages brought the scenes to life. With erotic sexual scenes and never ending suspense, Alien Games will appeal to science fiction and romance fans alike!	2002-11-11
US	34844779	R33MSA2OGK5IYH	1843602598	590253267	Pride of Imar: Book 3 of the Starquest series	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review by Brenda Gill	Sheyna leaves her home planet of Mirat to come to Earth. She is a healer, and she knows her talent could help the rebellion. Somehow she feels her destiny lies on Earth. Among her own race, she is an outcast because her bloodline isn't pure. Only her brother, Garan, has shown any love for her. Other Miratans only tolerate her.<br />When Sheyna arrives on Earth, she goes to work with Malachi Franklin, the Rebellion's healer. Malachi is instantly attracted to Sheyna. She affects him like no other woman ever has. He admires her unusual beauty and respects her courage and bravery. He wants her. Sheyna feels the same instant attraction and hopes that Malachi is the answer to the loneliness she has always felt among her own people.  <br />Before their budding romance can journey into intimacy, Sheyna and Malachi are captured by Merrick White, the sadistic leader of the World Federation. Merrick White is a madman, and even his own men are afraid of him. Before the Rebellion forces can free them, Malachi is badly beaten and Sheyna is degraded, abused and left badly traumatized by the ordeal. Can Malachi convince her of his love and show her the wonderful, strong person she really is? But Sheyna keeps an even darker, more horrible secret deep in her memory, that even the strength of Malachi's love may not be able to fight.        <br />Kate Douglas just gets better with each book in the Starquest series. In Pride of Imar, she takes a painful and traumatic subject and writes about it with skill and sensitivity. Ms. Douglas brilliantly portrays the love, respect, and need of two people deeply in love with each other and proves that love really is the best medicine of all.	2002-11-11
US	34844779	RN8PRG6OZLWOO	0970716958	293237591	No Mercy - Book 2: The Empress' New Clothes	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Timeless Tales review by Amy Turpin	Rem Q'an Tal has been searching for his Sacred Mate since he was freed from marriage to a woman not meant for him, without success. The mighty warrior is showing the strain of a Trystoni male without a Sacred Mate, the one woman in the entire galaxy who can complete him. The change starting to transform him is frightening, to say the least.<br />As he quests to the fifth dimension, to Earth, he finally has success. Only finding his Sacred Mate is almost enough to push him over the edge to madness. His &quot;wee wife&quot; is the very picture of the Goddess he worships and Rem is enchanted, to say the least. His wife, the almost-spinster Giselle McKenzie, is covered from head to toe in the most bedeviling &quot;spots!&quot;<br />Giselle is not sure what to think about the giant warrior who has claimed her as his wife. The bouts of near-madness he endures are enough to wrench her heart, but, being the attentive if exasperated wife, she soon finds the cure for his ailment. What she cannot deal with is the fascination with her freckles every man she comes across seems to have once she leaves Earth! <br />Although she neither understands everything happening to her or why her feelings for this gentle-giant are growing with every passing minute in his presence, she knows she loves him with her very being. She knows this man would do anything to keep her safe. When he leaves her to go help his brother and best friend fight the very creature he almost became, even though she has her misgivings, she says nothing. She can only hope she has the courage to save his family.<br />For sure, a bewitching sequel to 'The Empress' New Clothes.&quot; I was hooked from the first! Ms. Black's style is endearing and she writes with outstanding humor. There were other stories within this work, some simply touched on enough to get the reader's attention, others more in-depth. Even though I am looking forward to reading those stories, which I'm sure was the author's intention; I found it distracted from the main story somewhat. Overall, this book was an outstanding read and is recommended for the lover of science fiction and romantica, or for anyone simply looking for something as humorous as it is fantastical!	2002-11-11
US	34844779	R3GIDCAFEOXH3A	1843601052	955119109	Bloodlust II: The Taming of Serge Dumont (Erotic Vampire)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Timeless Tales review from Tressa Harvey	Derri Morgan is a high powered attorney in Philadelphia. On a whim she goes to see a fortuneteller, and meets a man she is very attracted to physically. However she believes him to be much younger than she is, and so she refuses to give him a chance.<br />Since she is about to take on a major case for her law firm, her boss wants to send her away for some rest and relaxation. For that reason, she travels to the Pocono Mountains for a few days stay at The Retreat, a cabin owned by her boss. Since she is a single female, he employs a security firm to keep an eye on her. By sheer coincidence, one of the members of that security team is the young man she is so attracted to. Serge Dumont is a vampire who turns out to be older than she is. Serge believes Derri is his bloodlust, but has a hard time convincing her. However, once he finally gets her in bed, she can no longer resist his appeal. <br />The problem with the relationship is that Serge is about to go through a &quot;sickness&quot; caused by the fact that his bloodlust is not vampire, but human. During this time, he remembers nothing of what he has done, but he becomes someone Derri does not know and fears. At the same time, his brother is also going through this period of sickness, known as the Feast of Indulgence.<br />There is a lot of story line for Erica Kalai and Mikhel Dumont, Serge's brother, who obviously were the main characters in a previous book. The characters were not into monogamy, and this book deserves its NC-17 rating. I gave the book a 3.5 rating simply because of my own personal feelings about love and what constitutes cheating.	2002-11-11
US	34844779	R9CMUQJ7W8TFB	184360227X	295540791	Dream Lover	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review by Amy Turpin	\\"Life is but a dream.\\"<br />Dreams can sometimes be used to tell us our innermost secrets if one can interpret them correctly. Sometimes dreams may even be erotic fantasies. Now, imagine you dream of the same man almost every night . . . for twenty-five years. In your dreams, he knows you intimately and you even watch yourself sharing his life and bearing his children. Edwina Johnson has been having such dreams since she was ten. She has grown to love this man in her dreams and no other man will ever measure up to the reality of her fantasy. That is, until the dream walks into her shop. Her dream. In the flesh!<br />Klaus von Bruner has watched Edwina since he first became aware of her genetic research. He recognized it for what it was; brilliant. He knows that she may be the key to the future of his kind. His own future with this woman is a bit more personal. He finds himself completely infatuated with her. Never in all his long years has a woman captured his imagination as completely as Edwina has. The first night he met her in her shop was almost like a dream come true for him. He had kissed her senseless and she had given herself over to his control without a fight at first. He could have taken her the first time there, but he knew to do so would quite possibly be to lose her forever. He wanted her to come to him willingly, without reservation.<br />Edwina knew she could not fight her attraction for the handsome Klaus. Her only hope was to put him off for a while, until she could get to know him outside of the dream. But she was finding out rather quickly that her sweetest dreams and reality were one in the same.<br />When Edwina is threatened by a disgruntled tenant, Klaus knows he must do his best to speed up his plans to marry her. He wants her safe with him . . . for eternity. Before he can take her into his life, she must learn exactly what she is dealing with. Edwina already suspects Klaus is much more than he seems. But sometimes, dreams only hint at reality and that is what the lovely Edwina is about to find out.<br />Forget everything you think you know about vampires. This story creates a refreshing new legend to capture the reader's imagination and makes you look twice at those people insisting upon working the night shift! Ms. Walder tells a wonderful tale that is at once intelligent and engaging. Once you enter this particular dream world, you may find yourself hoping that life IS but a dream .	2002-11-11
US	34844779	R23KRTM75QK5K3	184360213X	739063808	Wicked Wishes (Erotic Romance Anthology)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Timeless tales review by Amy Turpin	One little wish. Who knew one little wish could change life in the most profound ways! For three different women, their wish is about to become reality. For the men they love, well, they just get swept along for the ride!<br />Craven has been named Lord of Carnality, Master of Fleshly Desires, Prince of Pleasurable Pain, Dark Master of Desire . . . King of the Inflated Ego. This is one Fairy that is about to get just what he deserves! Bored with his carnal life style, tired of the endless orgies and feeling he is missing something exciting and essential in his life, Craven finds new temptation in a human woman. Nola is about to be trapped in a marriage she really does not want. Her only wish is to know true passion before she ties herself to a man and Craven is only too happy to grant her wish. As he leads Nola into a world full of sexual excitement and unusual people, he finds himself growing strangely . . . fond . . . of this human. She excites him as he has never been before! Too bad the Fairy Queen wants her gone from their realm forever. Too bad this luscious temptress only wants him for sex! With bets on the outcome going on between \\"Love\\" and \\"Hate,\\" Craven finds he must make some decisions that may prove to be the ones that determine his and Nola's future happiness. Enter the world of the Fey in Craven's Downfall.<br />Tiffany has never had much luck with birthdays. Something strange always happens. But wishes are an essential part of birthdays! What harm could one little wish do? Anyway, she only has one wish she really wants, Zak. If she had him, she'd have all the excitement her ordinary, boring life needed. The only thing is, Zak has been her best friend for six years. If he hasn't noticed her by now, he is probably not going to. Closing her eyes and wishing with all her might, she finds that no sooner is her wish voiced than Zak is rushing into the little diner and almost literally sweeping her off her feet! Announcing impending danger and something about his being her \\"promised,\\" he kisses her and drags her off. Tiffany's little world is suddenly turned upside down with the revelations Zak imparts to her. And as for the whole \\"promised\\" business, well it seems that by stating such in front of witnesses, Zak has married her on her lunch break! A Wish A Way is sure to leave you breathless.<br />Sarai and her children have been through enough at the hands of a man. Her husband and the children's father had brutalized them on many occasions until she was finally forced to kill him for fear of him killing her children. The last thing she wants or needs is to be under the will of another man. Unfortunately her daughter, Mali, believes in the power of wishes. Her wish? Why, she wants a daddy, and Jax would make an excellent daddy. Jax is convinced that even though she is not from his home planet, Sarai is his lifemate. He had made love to her the first night they met and in the eyes of his people, that was enough. As far as he is concerned, she is his. Now he just has to convince her that she wants him in her life and in the lives of her children. Thinking he can use her body's response against her and make her want him through sex, he feels he is making steady headway. Until she announces to him, quite loudly, that she is only using him for his body and has no desire for him in her life . . . ever! Hurt, confused and a little angry, Jax must come up with a plan and fast! There is no way he is going to let her get away from him, but he doesn't want her resentment either. He has to convince her that he wants a partnership with her, that he doesn't want to control her. That he only wants her love. Serendipity is sure to warm your heart and fire your desire.<br />Three little wishes, three magnificent tales! This is an extremely well put together anthology and the authors compliment each other very nicely. All are very romantic, all are very hot! If you like fantasy and science fiction blended with love, you're sure to delight in the anthology known as Wicked Wishes. And OH how wicked . . .	2002-11-11
US	34844779	R1AT8PZYD2XWFY	1894869419	71178607	Echoes of Angels	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L Turpin<br />Julienne Hunter is a one-time model whose career was taken away by an estranged husband's attack, leaving her face scarred. She had been dragged into the pit of drugs by her ex, which contributed to her professional demise, but the gashes to her face with a utility knife laced with battery acid put the stamp of retirement permanently on her dwindling profession.<br />After the vicious attack, she checks herself into a rehabilitation center in order to come off the cocaine. It is there that she learns she has living family and that they have been taking care of her financial situation for some time since her injury. Believing her only relative is the one she has known since she was three, her deceased mother, she is afraid of what she will find if she agrees to meet with this family. She never knew her mother's secrets, she only knew that her mother hated this family that was now trying to bring her home.<br />The first of the two that she meets is a striking man by the name of Morgan Saint-Evanston. His cool demeanor, not to mentionn his willingness to call her every bluff, is enough to grate on Julienne's nerves. Morgan Saint-Evanston is a man used to getting his way and has very little patience for weakness in people and it is obvious he sees her as a pathetic little girl.<br />The home he takes her to is stunning, and for the first time, Julienne becomes truly aware of her heritage. At least the heritage with relation to things of the known world. What she isn't aware of are the fantastical things that are her birthright. <br />While she and Morgan learn to love hating one another, Julienne's grandmother alone knows that Julienne is the key to saving Morgan's very soul. With Morgan refusing to acknowledge his responsibility to help those very people he has taught and trained throughout his life, Anlese did the only thing she could to help the stubborn man; she mated he and her granddaughter without either of their knowledge.<br />As Julienne learns more about Morgan's dark past, she catches glimpses of vulnerability, fleeting as they are. She sees the tortured man he has become over, what must have been for him, endless centuries. As tortured as her own mother had been, which she now knows was due to her mother's psychic tendencies and the fact that she was what amounts to a witch.<br />Having made his decision to leave the mortal world, Morgan knows he must sever all ties: including those with Julienne. It turns out to be a decision he has to rethink. Having become intimately involved with the beautiful girl, he is once again unsure of his destiny. <br />But Julienne has plans of her own. Embracing her heritage, she does as her grandmother tells her she must. She leaves with Morgan when he returns to his world. Now, all she has to do is stop the end of the world . . .<br />This is a tantalizingly unique tale about Celtic magic and the mortals and immortals surrounded by it. Although the flow seems to lag in a few places, the utter distinctiveness of this work makes it a worthwhile read. I look forward to the next chapter in the lives of Morgan and Julienne.	2002-11-10
US	34844779	R18HKW3PUJIB9V	084395132X	633341057	The Falcon & the Dove	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Hattie Boyd<br />In the 18th Dynasty of Egypt, there was born a love that could never be broken -that of a young queen and a great warrior. While the warrior's duty to combat the infidel was strict, and though his beloved was the wife of Pharaoh, the two would be separated only by death, and then only for a time.<br />Egypt, 1892<br />Elizabeth Summers is on her way to the archaeological digs in Amarna on a donkey, breaking one of the rules of her Uncle Nahid, when she sees some unusual activity taking place. When she gets closer, she sees the camp is being attacked. She jumps into the fray and comes face to face with the leader of the warriors, Jabari bin Tarik Hassid. Elizabeth doesn't back down. She has come to the excavation for more than working. She has reason to believe that the cure for her Nana's respiratory illness can be found on the Almha, and she is determined to find it. She knows her Uncle Nahid will not be happy with her being part of the digs, but her grandmother is more important.  <br />Jabari bin Tarik Hassid is sheik of the Khamsin warriors of the wind and guardian of the Almha. Jabari does not believe in the love story that Kiya and Ranefer will be reunited, but he believes the power is in the Almha. He is bewitched by Elizabeth even though she is an infidel, and he knows the English are a danger to the Almha and other artifacts that tell their history. The Al-Hajid have been hired to guard the archaeological site and the excavating team. When Jabari finds this out he disguises himself and seeks a job at the excavation site in order to watch both the diggers and the Al-Hajid, who have been lifelong enemies of his tribe. Jabari has been keeping watch on Elizabeth, and when he finds her digging at the secret burial site of the Almha, he knows she has to be stopped. He decides kidnapping her and taking her to the camp where his harem is would be the best. Jabari soon discovers that Elizabeth will cause trouble wherever she is.    <br />THE FALCON & THE DOVE is a wonderful love story set in the Egyptian desert that blends history and legend to shape a love between two people from very different cultures. The main characters Elizabeth and Jabari are strong and stubborn and fight their feeling for each other from the beginning. There are many secondary characters and some great dialogue that makes the complex multilayered plot come alive for the reader. There is some graphic violence, but don't let that keep you from reading this wonderful book. The conclusion is one that left me wanting more of Elizabeth and Jabari's story.	2002-11-09
US	34844779	RGY2C3560A4TN	1930586086	64613744	Have No Mercy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Hattie Boyd<br />David Epstein grew up in Mt. Pride, Colorado; the only child of parents who loved and spoiled him. David was an introverted child growing up and only had one childhood friend, Todd Reams. He was a friend with Todd until he asked Todd to move into the house his parents left him when they relocated to Israel. He came home one day and Todd was stealing a necklace, the only thing David had belonging to his mother. He and Todd fought and he threw Todd out of the house. David's psychiatry practice located in his home grew and he became a multimillionaire. He had everything but a wife. He went looking for the perfect wife and he found her in Ann Roitstein. Ann was beautiful and intelligent with a job as a linguist with a government agency. Ann fell in love with David, but love was not on David's agenda. He had Ann sign a prenuptial agreement saying that if she divorced him, she would not be entitled to anything he had before he married her. When Ann discovered there would be no children, she became bored with staying at home. David decided to build them a house on property he bought in High Cliff Estates, using a design he contracted before the marriage. This would be the beginning of Ann's problems.<br />Rennie and Matt Lain met when Rennie visited a new coffee shop in Mt. Pride where Matt Lain was working. Rennie grew up in Mt. Pride, was the author of several children's books and was wealthy but lonely. Matt didn't think Rennie was good to look at, but since she had money and could give him his dream of his own business, Matt used his charms on her. Now they had a chain of coffeehouses across the country and a beautiful home in High Cliff Estates. Rennie became depressed and abused alcohol and cigarettes. She decided to consult a psychiatrist and chose David Epstein because he lived in the same neighborhood. Eventually Rennie began to think of David as her friend and when she found out Ann had the qualifications Matt was looking for in anassistant and was looking for a job, both Rennie and David thought Rennie should suggest Matt hire Ann.  <br />HAVE NO MERCY is the twisted story of four people whose lives spin out of control because of the desire for revenge by one person. The four main characters, David, Ann, Rennie, and Matt are a lesson in how twisted the mind can become when you become consumed with revenge and jealousy. The only good character in this story besides the police is Rennie's friend and attorney Daniel Boone Riddle. The story is fast-paced and will keep you turning pages from beginning to end.	2002-11-09
US	34844779	R1J3V95I27BP8P	1592799876	975979769	Star Quality	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Teresa Bushek<br />Move over, Jackie Collins. There is a new star in the world of suspenseful stories about Hollywood. Denise Tyrrell dives headfirst into the mysterious, fascinating, and sometimes seedy world of the Hollywood film and television industry with her new novel titled \\"Star Quality\\".  <br />Isabel Taylor, a writer known to friends as Izzy, has been trying for eight long years to \\"break in\\" to show business. With a mounting stack of bills and rent due in under a week, she accepts a position with the Corporate Special Projects division of Mirabelle Studios.  <br />Before long, Izzy realizes the job is not what she expected.<br />After a particularly stressful day, a co-worker by the name of Judy Ross offers friendship and a \\"long, cool one\\". At the bar, Judy introduces her to a man Izzy describes as a \\"repulsive little man\\", who is none other than Arthur Franco.  <br />Arthur Franco's claim to Executive Producer fame is the long running, wildly popular game show \\"Bingo Fever\\". <br />During a drugged stupor from yet another bout of plastic surgery, his mistress, the show's hostess Valentine Hart (yes, she is as cheesy as her name suggests), demands Franco produce a movie, in which she will star in the leading role. As Franco struggles to find funding for the movie, Judy Ross arranges financing from a wealthy businessman, Carlos Luna, in exchange for an associate producer's credit in the movie.<br />Whenever situations get tough, Izzy finds her friend Judy willing to dispense pearls of wisdom about surviving the Hollywood scene. But is Judy really her friend, or is she setting up Izzy while looking out for her own interests?  <br />Ms. Tyrrell kept this reader on the edge of her seat with intense, fast-paced plot twists and turns. Vivid character descriptions lift the story's cast off the pages, and the author's sense of satirical humor shines through with tongue-in-cheek dialogue and analogies that are delightfully funny. Chock-full of insinuated sex, drug use, backstabbing friendships, and people who will do anything for money and titles, the story is a fast-paced, enjoyable read. <br />\\"Star Quality\\" will make readers wonder about what really goes on behind the scenes in real Hollywood television and movie production.	2002-11-09
US	34844779	R2S6ER9VG9628M	1591050375	560839175	Too Many Spies Spoil the Case	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timess Tales review	By TT reviewer Chuck Gregory<br />Doug McCool makes his way through the seventies in San Francisco serving papers that people don't want on a variety of interesting characters. No less interesting are the odd bevy of beautiful girls that populate his office, or the husband-and-wife team that employ him there, or his gay landlord. But one day two unrelated cases come along that change his life forever.<br />One of the people he's supposed to serve decides to attack him, and ends up dead. Doug is about to phone the police when he notices that the guy had lots of cash and cocaine. This presents an interesting moral dilemma, which delays him about 2 seconds.<br />In the other case, the government of Iran wants him to serve an order on a local businessman by the name of Gunter. The papers will help enforce a court judgement that will end up taking all of the assets of the business; needless to say, Gunter is doing his best to duck service.<br />People start dying all over the place, the FBI and CIA are apparently involved, along with Mossad and who knows who else. I won't tell you-you'll have to read it for yourself.<br />\\"Too Many Spies\\" is a good story, a fast read, and full of action, but the characterization and settings are the best part. McCool is part Mickey Spillane, part Lew Archer, perhaps part Travis McGee; the author claims he's recreated Don Quixote! Or maybe not. Barbara Brown, the office manager, is another fascinating character who becomes more important as the story progresses. The backdrop of San Francisco in the seventies is well and thoroughly drawn and made me nostalgic even though I didn't live there!<br />Sex, drugs, money and violence are all present. Miles Archer does not refrain from explicit descriptions, but he is not crude nor does he overextend the scenes for the sake of sensation. Plenty-but by no means all-is left to the imagination. There are a couple more books in the works, with the same characters, and I am looking forward to reading them.<br />Check it out!	2002-11-06
US	34844779	R2NJMM3F7H59UA	1589392663	122687710	Cecilia's Season	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver<br />Cecilia's aunt, Lady Harriet Kendall, very graciously volunteers to give Cecilia a season, as Cecilia's mother abhors London.  On Cecilia's first night in her aunt's house, she decides she needs a midnight snack.  On her way to the kitchen, she runs into her cousin, Baxter, and his friend, David Falconbridge.   Baxter is rather foxed and Mr. Falconbridge is assisting him to his bedroom.  Cecilia takes an immediate dislike to Mr. Falconbridge. Cecilia is soon caught up in the season and her aunt decides to have a come-out ball for Cecilia.  Lady Harriet takes Cecilia shopping and buys her new gowns and bonnets.  Of course, Baxter makes sure that Mr. Falconbridge is invited to Cecilia's ball.  <br />David finds himself very attracted to Cecilia, but fears that attraction will not lead to anything. David's father was gambling with Cecilia's grandfather and lost all his money and eventually killed himself.  David's mother became a mistress to a rich man. David has supported himself and his widowed sister and two nieces by driving a hackney, and does not feel that he can offer Cecilia anything. However, David has heard rumors that Cecilia's grandfather cheated David's father in the card game and he decides to come up with a plan to prove it. Will David be able to regain his fortune from Cecilia's grandfather?  Will David be able to overcome her dislike for him and win her?<br />This was a very enjoyable read. It was exactly what you would expect in a Regency. As Regencies are one of my favorite types of romance, I did enjoy this book. There was mystery, plots and of course, romance in this book. Cecilia is a very strong heroine and perfectly matched with David, and Baxter is a wonderful secondary character. And of course the grandfather is an old rascal that no one is fond of.	2002-11-05
US	34844779	R1C8X8QP0YIKTA	1591092507	446557056	Fire Lilies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Deborah Hern<br />Fire Lilies tells the story of two sisters, Delores and Alicia Martinez, born into the upper class of Mexican society in the late 1800s. The story takes place between 1902 and 1926, with an emphasis on the Mexican Revolution. During this time, we follow the lives of Delores, Alicia, and their family and friends.  <br />As the story opens, their youngest sister is being introduced into society by her godfather, the Governor of their territory. At this time, Delores has already been married off to a wealthy landowner who seems to represent the very worst of the upper class of this society. He is cruel, not only to his wife, but to all who work for him. His idea of incentive is to leave the hanged bodies of those who oppose him rotting in the main yard, as a warning. Delores recognizes the cruelty and violence of her husband, and does her best to shield the peasants from his wrath. Eventually, she realizes she must shield herself as well.<br />Alicia, meanwhile, is being pushed toward a marriage she does not desire with a rather foppish and churlish man. Her mother encourages the union because of the wealth of the man's family. Alicia makes her stand against her mother's wishes; then refuses the man's proposal. She has realized early that there is, and should be, more to life than a sheltered, pampered existence.<br />From this point, the story sweeps all the characters into the vortex of the Mexican Revolution. This revolution not only pits class against class, but splinters families as well. Each of the characters is very well defined. They all have their own strengths and weaknesses. They're very human. Throughout the story, they must find their own way through the social upheaval that follows.  Some make good choices, some bad. They all make choices that are intrinsic to the characterizations they've been given.<br />The descriptive passages are very well written and evoke both the time and place with precision. If you are not proficient in Spanish, you may want to have a Spanish dictionary nearby to look up some of the terms sprinkled liberally throughout the narrative. Most of them are fairly obvious, given the context, so a dictionary is not a necessity.<br />This is a bittersweet story about the strength of family ties, love, and friendships in a time of war, upheaval, and sweeping social changes. Not everyone has a happy ending. In that way, this is a very realistic portrait of what it must have been like to live through that time.	2002-10-29
US	34844779	RFTW7SRAZDHAT	1586978357	461722736	Magnolia House	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Brenda Gill<br />Cindi Lynn is recuperating from throat surgery and the death of her mother. She had nursed her mother though her illness and is at a low point in her life, so the invitation to visit Magnolia House comes at just the right time. This visit will give Cindi a needed chance to rest and get well, but also find out why her father left her and her mother so many years ago. Why has her father never wanted Cindi to visit him in all those years? At Magnolia House, Cindi meets the handsome caretaker, Dell Comeaux, and begins to fall in love with him. Dell returns her feelings, but there are sinister things going on at Magnolia House that threaten both their lives. Jim Lynn, Cindi's father, has been put in prison in South America and there is a $200,000.00 ransom for his life. Why does a young woman Dell was once in love with haunt the house? Why does a phantom panther, the fabled \\"Loggy Branch\\" monster, roam the halls of the grand house? What does Cliff Aymond, who was once engaged to Cindi, have to do with all the strange things going on at Magnolia House? When the body of a woman is found, Cindi and Dell know their time is running out and they must find the answers or face certain death.<br />Having lived in Shreveport, Caddo Parish, for four years, reading this book was like coming home. Lyn Lawrence does a fine job of bringing the people, their mannerisms, and the feel of the Louisiana countryside to life. I could smell the fragrance of the magnolia trees and picture Magnolia House in my mind. The author has managed to blend romance and suspense with the supernatural to weave a spine-chilling story that is hard to put down. The characters are so real and well developed, they feel like old friends and you won't want to leave them when the story is finished. Fans of romantic suspense won't be disappointed. This is one book I have no problem recommending.	2002-10-28
US	34844779	R3FACG495D3W8W	1894869621	793225748	The Hundredth Magic	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Brenda Gill<br />Huntsman Alexander Finnell has been sent to the city-state of Hurst to find out who or what has been killing the Emperor's advisors and generals. Alexander is from the neighboring city-state of Addamantia and he's not too pleased with his assignment, but he'll do the best he can and go home. Adriana Thornwell, one of the Emperor's junior counselors, is his guide around the city. It's her job to show him the places where the murders took place and to assist him in whatever way she can. In the course of his investigation, Alexander finds out that miners have been killed in the same way as the other murder victims. The miners had found silver in the Mandreal Mountains and Alexander believes this might be why they were killed. Hurst and Addamantia are in the midst of trade negotiations. If Hurst has a supply of silver, it could upset the balance of trade between the two cities. All the murders have the feel of magic about them and Alexander knows that he is up against a powerful adversary.<br />A delegation of Sandlanders, the burning men of the desert, has come to Hurst to find a holy relic that has been stolen from them. Somewhere in Hurst is the grimoire of their clan and the one who stole it. They want it back, for the grimoire has magical properties and in the wrong hands, it could be disastrous. Alexander finds out that the thief of the grimoire is Kandys Corlithian, Adriana's sister. He also finds out that someone is using the grimoire to bring statues to life. The statues are the murder weapons. After their task is complete, they turn to dust.  <br />There is a rogue warlock somewhere in the city and no one has been able to find him. He's been able to hide himself so completely that even Nikkolynda, the Emperor's Prime Wizard, can't find him. Malthus has been a busy warlock. He conjures a giant spider that attacks Hurst and the people of Hurst believe that Addamantia is responsible for it.<br />Time is running out for Alexander. As the city-states of Hurst and Addamantia ready for war, he must uncover a hidden conspiracy bent on assassinating the Emperor and find the warlock responsible for using the grimoire to commit murder and increase his own power. The Prime Wizard Nikkolynda has gone missing and Alexander, Kandys, and Adriana are the only ones who can prevent the Western Realm from being plunged into civil war.<br />Sword and sorcery fans and lovers of fantasy will enjoy this book. Jeffrey Turner has created an enthralling world of fantastical beings and dangerous suspense. The action starts on the first page and doesn't let up until the end of the book and the reader is left wanting more. Judging by the way the book ended, a sequel is in the works. I hope so, for I'd like to return to the Western Realm and all its magical creatures.	2002-10-28
US	34844779	RKZR7JRK23M18	0595242685	773387468	Aieres' Mirror: Book One: Finding Shelter (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Mary Lou Mudd<br />Aieres' Mirror is a wonderfully, captivating children's book that would even delight adults. It is a story about a fifteen-year-old girl, Leah, and her six-year-old sister, Elyse. Both are highly intelligent children.  <BR>     <BR>It begins with them at a restaurant on their way to a family camp-out; however, this is just a prelude to the real story; for the next day after breakfast, Leah takes her sister on a hike to a small pond. Elyse is playing in the water when something grabs her and pulls her down. Leah immediately leaps in and rescues her; however, when they get back on shore they have traveled to another world. They journey to a small village and find gentleness and kindness there. Leah also discovers that her sister is not really her sister but a summoner in this new world. A long time ago, all the summoners were thought to be destroyed except for two. A mother made it to the king in time to protect her twins when they were born. The king sent them elsewhere to protect them from the hunters.<BR>     <BR>The children must get to the king so they can go home. They meet many wonderful people as well as some not so nice people on their journey to the king. One of those persons is a girl named Nikele, who rescues them from two very bad men that want to kill Elyse.<BR>     <BR>This book keeps you on the edge of your seat and ends leaving you wanting the next in the series. No matter what age group you are in, this book will catch you from the first page to the last. If you have siblings, it will bring back memories of times with your sister or brother, making you laugh and leaving you feeling lighthearted. I am looking forward to Aieres' Mirror Book Two.	2002-10-27
US	34844779	R1CZ0A5R09K0QW	0743301153	547791201	Play It Again, Sam	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Chere Gruver [full review on our website]<br />Samantha, or Sam, as she prefers to be called, is about to have her life turned upside down. Her husband comes home from work that day to tell her that he has decided to move out and wants a divorce. John won't even talk to her about it. He tells her that he is unhappy while he is packing a suitcase. A few days later, Sam finds herself walking out of the courthouse a divorced woman. Sam's life as a corporate wife is now over. After 25 years of marriage, Sam finds herself at loose ends. The first person Sam decides to call is Margaret, her old friend. Margaret tells Sam that there is probably a bimbo involved somewhere. Sam calls her son and tells him what she can about the situation. Eric is very supportive and offers to have Sam live with him. Sam decides to put off telling her daughter for tonight. A little while later, Melissa calls Sam and wants to know why she forced her father out of her life. Melissa is under the mistaken belief that the divorce is all Sam's fault.<br />Sam decides to go visit Margaret in Houston. Margaret is single and the same age as Sam. They went to college together. Margaret finally talks Sam into going back to college to get her degree. She offers Sam a place to stay while in school. Since Sam doesn't really know what she wants to do with life, the idea intrigues her and she decides to go for it wholeheartedly. Sam goes back home, sells her house and moves in with Margaret.<br />Frank lost his wife to cancer. Unfortunately, she was also an alcoholic. Frank had finally talked her into going for help when the cancer was discovered.  Frank moved out to Houston after his wife died. His son and his family are still back east.  <br />Frank and Sam meet. They feel an immediate attraction for each other. Sam gets a job through Margaret with an ad agency. Frank is one of the agency's clients. They actually meet Sam's first day on the job, when Frank comes in to see one of the accountexecutives. Sam and Frank begin dating.<br />Will Melissa ever forgive Sam for the divorce? Will Sam ever become independent and able to rely on herself? What will happen between Sam and Frank? How well will Sam do in school and in her career choice?<br />This was a very moving and touching book about how one woman rebuilds her life after the dissolution of her 25-year marriage. Her fears and successes are all very real. I especially enjoyed watching Sam flounder her way through a relationship with Frank after being married for 25 years. I loved seeing Sam grow into a independent woman, in charge of every aspect of her own life, from her career to her love life to her relationship with her two grown children. This is a book that every divorced woman can relate to and I can definitely recommend it for any age woman.	2002-10-13
US	34844779	R15KU8B2YA6A8U	1894869559	337281065	The Dream Tree	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer and author Shannah Biondine<br />This is a very different book. It doesn't offer the traditional plotline and structure of a novel; rather it's comprised of a series of dark vignettes, loosely connected around a central theme. Strangers gather around the base of The Dream Tree and tell their own unique tales.<br />Ms. Burns has concocted a dark brew, swirled in glimpses and flashes. There is a man who writes his own fortunes--and they come to pass. A woman re-enacts the witch from Hansel and Gretel, ensnaring children into her mobile home. A desperate boy and his crazed uncle. Death, loss and love, aliens, Santa Claus, religious fanatics, the sudden assault of the bogeyman....<br />Readers who enjoy programs like \\"Tales from the Crypt\\" or \\"Night Gallery\\" will find this a similar eclectic mix. Dark metaphors and humor are interwoven with the sad and the scary, sacred and profane. I can't recommend The Dream Tree for the faint of heart, or readers who like stories tied up in a concise resolution. The metaphors and similes which abound here don't always lead to logical conclusions, and much is left dangling. Perhaps that's the point: readers may choose what's real and what's merely dark illusion.<br />Readers looking for the avant-garde and original, take note of The Dream Tree.	2002-10-13
US	34844779	RAVNRZG3P5JVE	1931696934	404474062	Winter's Orphans	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Shannah Biondine [full review on our website]<br />Indentured factory worker Mina Cole witnesses a horrible industrial accident. An accident that leaves her badly shaken by the notion that her own mental will may have been what prevented the maiming from becoming fatal. The drive belt on the machinery broke when Mina's mind kept screaming that someone had to stop the grinding machines, someone had to make it stop! Miraculously, they did just that.<br />Pure coincidence? Mina's not sure. A similar incident had occurred once before.  When she's beset by an invisible Hound on the streets of Dere later that same night and saved by two strangers, Mina discovers many things are not what they seem--including her own nature and blood heritage.<br />Enmeshed in an old power struggle between the Seelie and Unseelie Fae and their part-human offspring, the Faelings, the city of Dere has a wonderful Dickensian brooding darkness. Miss Corvidae's descriptions will have you feeling the oppression of iron collars and debtor's prison, smelling the rank garbage-strewn alleyways and marveling along with Mina as she begins her study of fae magic and lore.<br />This is a thoroughly enjoyable read, with an unusual heroine who must face long odds and her own dark side as, layer by layer, hard truths are revealed and the battle toll mounts. It's a story of friendship and sacrifice, personal power vs. equality and basic rights, misery and oppression vs. startling beauty and magical glamours. The overall theme centers on a balance of power and the author wisely plants serious limitations on the magical abilities of her faelings. This makes them all the more human and believable.<br />The plot is well conceived and filled with adventures. Secondary characters are as intriguing as her leads, and I loved the title. Read the book and you'll see why it's dead on perfect.	2002-10-05
US	34844779	R3KMP06M3EDX8S	1589391020	642539178	A Need for Deception	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Nancy Williams [full review on our website]<br />It isn't exactly love at first sight when, startled by her cousin's horse, Anna Fanshaw falls into the creek. This stranger's first words are also unwelcome; he announces that Anna's home and all the land surrounding it would someday belong to him. Talk about a bad first impression. Anna realizes he's about as fine looking a man as she has ever seen, and he seems taken with her, but what kind of a villain could he be if he wants to take her home? Try as she might to hate him, (and she does try) he makes a vividly heroic first impression when he rescues a servant's child from certain death in a sow's pen. Still, Anna vows to dislike the man who may end up throwing her mother and sister and her out of their home, should something ever happen to her father. And she can only despise the laws that favor male-only inheritance. <BR>    <BR>The purpose of Tristan's visit in the first place is to learn the details of estate management, and one day when she goes about the estate with her father and Tristan, she gets hit by a low-lying tree branch, is unceremoniously swept from her mount and injures her ankle. In another gallant gesture, he lifts her to her father's arms, and then carries her to her room when they finally reach home. She can see it written all over his face as he looks at her--he's falling in love with her. But she simply can't chance trusting him, or can she?<BR>    <BR>When he learns of his own father's death in a hunting accident, he must return home to his mother, a woman who, like her husband, has no love for home and hearth nor for her only son. Tristan hates to leave the only family who has ever cared for him, but he sets out for home only to be accosted by two highwaymen, who rob him, and leave him for dead. Fortunately, the vicar and his wife care for him. They notify Anna's parents, who come for him in no time and nurse him back to health.<BR>    <BR>When he is finally able to make the trip home to Bath, he finds something amiss. The account books have been juggled, and when he tries to get to the bottom of it, he finds himself the target of bullets several times. Someone is trying to kill him. But why? And does that mean that his father's death could be murder. The excitement really begins when the whole family gets into the act to help trap his assailant, proving to Tristan beyond a shadow of a doubt who his real family is. Will he and Anna be able to overcome her first bad impressions of him and find love? <BR>    <BR>For those fond of Regency romances, this is a heartwarmer. The characters are realistic, and winning, and the story is a lovely might-have-been. Choose this one and curl up under an afghan with some hot chocolate in front of a crackling fire. You won't be sorry.	2002-10-05
US	34844779	R3DWZAMVVGFWXX	0373244886	637177369	The Boss's Baby Bargain (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin [full review on our website]<br />Allie Dickenson needs money. She has exhausted every means at her disposal and with her need becoming desperate, she turns to the only person she knows that might be able to help her: her boss, Lucas Taylor. What she doesn't know is that Lucas has his own problems.<BR>Lucas Taylor needs a child, an heir to his fortune. He also has a problem with love. Simply put, he does not believe himself capable of loving someone, and at forty years old, it doesn't look as if he is going to be able to produce his heir the old fashioned way. When he is approached by Allie, the beginnings of a plan form in his mind. No adoption agency will even consider his application because he is unwed, unable to provide a &quot;stable environment&quot; for a child, even though any child of his would want for nothing. His proposition is simple. . . he will give Allie her money; if she'll marry him.<br />Totally dumbfounded, Allie can't believe what is happening to her! Not only does she find herself agreeing to the ludicrous scheme, but her traitorous body is thrilled by the notion. Although Lucas has decreed they should have a marriage of convenience only, in order to fulfil the mandates of Social Services, they must live together and the forced intimacy soon takes a toll on Allie's frazzled nerves.<br />Unbeknownst to Allie, Lucas is having just as much of a problem as she is. He has been harboring fantasies about Allie for almost the entire tenure of her employment with him. He has every intention of keeping to himself. But with Allie right there in his home, waiting on him every night, it is getting harder and harder to resist his impulse to make theirs a true marriage and to let the children he wants be a product of that marriage.  The problem is, Lucas knows Allie will want more than his company and his money if she is to remain his wife and give him the child he so desperately wants. She will want and need his love. And that is something he is unable to give.<BR>Finding herself in love with Lucas is more than she was prepared to handle, but Allie is nothing if not determined and she is determined to prove to Lucas that he loves her back. Now, if she can only convince him before the baby arrives . . .<br />This is a heart-warming story and one I believe the reader will enjoy time and time again. It is always fun to watch macho men deal with the fact that a little woman has them wound around her finger. And when they finally realize how deeply in love with that woman they really are, the sparks always fly! This story just proves how fascinating that phenomenon always is!	2002-09-22
US	34844779	R2XZ9P9Z7J1EEJ	1876962011	206635871	Tempered Hearts	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer K.L Frizzell<BR>Full review: [web address]<br />The heroine is Tamera Collins. A spitfire, the nickname Temper Tantrum is a perfect fit. She is a young, intelligent woman, who has become a veterinarian. Her perfect life and faith in God are devastated by the untimely death of her parents and an unspeakable crime committed by her ex-boyfriend, Tony. She feels she has finally found salvation in a perfectly timed job opportunity at the Rockin H ranch, owned by Craig Harris. So she packs up her horse, Temper, and heads west.<br />Craig is the perfect example of a chauvinistic arrogant male with a heart. He's rich and has worked hard all his life to bring the ranch back to success, after his father had pretty much run it into the ground. His life changed after his parents' supposedly accidental deaths. Craig was raised by his grandfather, better known as Gramps and a motherly housekeeper, Maria. Faith isn't a high priority, running the ranch is. Women were the farthest thing from Craig's mind after he broke up with his two timing fiancée, Stephanie. That is, until a firebrand veterinarian named Tamera has the audacity to throw a glass of water in his face, while the whole town stood in attendance. Although Craig had relationships before, he was confused by his feelings toward the vet. One minute he wants to strangle her, the next he is having trouble controlling the desire sweeping through his system. Being somewhat innocent, Tamera has no idea how to handle Craig's mercurial mood swings. Still raw from her parents' deaths and Tony's betrayal, Tamera is having trouble just keeping from falling into a sobbing heap. <br />Over time and with Gramp's bible studies, Tamera begins to heal. Craig thinks a truce is in order and decides to take Tamera on a tour of the ranch. Disaster strikes the idyllic day, when the heroine is thrown from her horse, breaks her arm and is bitten by a rattler. Craig's horse has taken off and Tamera's horse, Temper, isn't cooperating. Craig starts the long trek back to the ranch. Tamera's reaction to the poison starts to set in and Craig is at his wits end. With shock coming on hard and fast, he finds his faith in a remarkable scene. Tamera and Craig go on a roller coaster ride of emotions and continue to fight their feelings for each other, with secondary characters giving advice along the way.<br />I don't want to give out a bunch of spoilers here, but I can tell you the hero and heroine overcome their loss of faith, jealousy, hatred and fears throughout the story. Tempered Hearts is well written and a pleasant surprise from the normal contemporary romances of sex and mayhem. It's a gentle read that reminds one of one's faith and morals, with spice added. I like that Miss Thibodeaux makes her point on premarital sex and faith, without shoving it down the readers throat. She doesn't ignore the characters' sexual feelings, they are there, in titillating ways, without consummating. The author explores them with detail, depth and innocence, without losing the story line. Which this reader feels is about lost faith and regaining it in a contemporary way.<br />I would recommend this to anyone who wants a good book, with faith and a lot of zip. I would especially recommend Tempered Hearts to those teen readers on the verge of becoming adults. This is a perfect book to show love, without the physical act. I would suggest that the story be a bit longer and the scenic scenes given more detail to give the reader a complete view.	2002-09-21
US	34844779	R1K47EMJLUMYEI	1590889991	888178464	StarCrossed Hearts	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Lauryn Hale<BR>Full review: [web address]<br />This book captured my attention from the start! It opens with a pirate scene, in which the Dali Captain has taken two girls captive.  Then it tosses a curve to the reader.  It's a movie in progress.  I couldn't walk away from this story. It grabbed my interest and simply wouldn't let go.  It is the classic triangle of love; two men and one woman.  But the resolution is anything but simple.  Several times I couldn't fathom how the author, Anne Carter, was going to resolve it, but she did! And it is heart wrenching!<br />Jessica Taylor is a wanna-be actress starring as a handmaiden in a major motion picture, with one whole line! She isn't aware that this moment in time will change her life forever.  Dane Pierce is the hero cast in the film, the hot attraction for filmgoers. Jessica tries not to pass judgement on him, but his arrogance and ego is more than apparent.  To her amazement, he begins asking her to lunch and showing up at her house.  However, he is terrible at following through on his promises.  <br />Jessica is more than thrilled when he offers her the role of her life, the lead in his next project! She is determined to obtain it fairly though, and insists on a tryout.  The cast director still selects her and the film is a `go'.  Jessica has never met a man like Dane. Despite his overwhelming arrogance, she senses the tender, vulnerable side of him.  This empathy lands her in his bed, satisfied and happy.  Then his confession shatters her dreams; he promises her nothing, can give her nothing, and won't even try.  <br />In hurt confusion over Dane's neglecting attitude, her friend, Roxie, coerces her into throwing a holiday party.  There she meets another man, Mac MacKendall, the star of TV sitcom, Doctor Jim.  They become the best of friends, sharing confidences and shedding appearances. More than friendship lies beneath the surface however, and soon they both begin realizing it.  The filming forLost Season begins and Jessica is unable to escape Dane and her weakness for him.  When Jessica is in need of help, the two men confront their feelings and the battle for her heart is on.  Who will win?<br />Starcrossed Hearts is a fabulous story! Anne Carter writes a tangled web that is almost impossible for the reader to find their way through.  The writing is direct and straightforward, making a story any romance reader would love.  I will gladly read anything this author writes again!	2002-09-21
US	34844779	R375R26CTRELW6	1931742758	579793867	The Emerald Eye	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Lynne Temple [full review on our website]<br />Patricia Diamonte begins her move to New York with an explosion. From out of the smoky haze, a hero emerges. Dylan Stone with his powerful, commanding voice ushers Patricia out of a dangerous situation.<br />Once she has been pulled to safety, Patricia realizes that she has nothing. Her purse, briefcase, and the last of her money are gone. Somewhere in the debris of the explosion are the material things that she desperately needs, including the key to her brother's apartment. Given two dollars by a kind paramedic, Patricia arrives home and is visited by Dylan. With their personal and professional lives intertwined, Patricia faces a personal crisis with the knowledge that her brother Eddie was adopted. Eddie returns from Paris with his new wife, Michelle, making Patricia feel even more out of place living in the small apartment with them. Then, while talking to her brother, a crushing blow comes when she finds out that she was also adopted. Her life begins to spin out of control. Many questions plague her: Who are her real parents? Why did they give her up? And the heartbreaking wonder of who she is. Patricia is torn with personal conflicts, work deadlines, and her valiant search for her true identity. Her biggest challenge may be keeping Dylan by her side. <br />This was a wonderful, fast paced book. I had a hard time putting it down as each page entranced me with the particular insight of adoption, and intrigued me with the questions that are brought up when you feel as if your entire life has been a lie. As each chapter went on, I felt I had a good inkling of the outcome. This is a refreshing book that left me anxious for a sequel.	2002-09-20
US	34844779	RG3XZCA9U9SXW	1894869346	177364829	The Blood Circle	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviwer Wendi Thrasher [full review on our website]<br />The city-states of Sefron and Datyl find themselves inexplicably being targeted by assassins, not quite at random, nor with a truly recognizable pattern. No one is completely safe - and no one is above suspicion. The leaders of both cities are worried and have few clues with which to work. <BR>When guardsman Jasper Baronson's lord and his wife are poisoned by a flower girl, he becomes obsessed with finding those responsible. He guards Lord Valon Padrason as the Sunlord begins his own investigation, and aids the Sunlord in his search. Unfortunately, the assassins are dedicated, professional and diligent. Leads are scarce and difficult to obtain. The shocking breakthrough in this case and the reasons behind the murders are horrifying. Will Lord Valon be able to put all the pieces together before the cities' leaders are assassinated next? Will Jasper Baronson be able to avenge his Lord's murder? Will they be able to stop the assassins, or will they merely have to settle for driving them into being more cautious?<br />A surprisingly good tale! I had trouble putting it down, and found my thoughts coming back to it throughout the day. The conflict presented here is not just one of good and evil, but one of basic morality versus social conditioning. The difficulty of doing the right thing in the face of those who insist otherwise is poignantly presented. Love, loss, frustration and fury are equally well represented here. <br />Definitely a keeper! This one is going on my \\"not-to-be-loaned-out\\" bookshelf, and will be saved for my children when they are a little older. Appropriate for teens on up, and yet will engage adults as well. The dialogue runs along smoothly, descriptions are vivid, and the plot moves along without faltering or stiffening. I am looking forward to more in this series, and will be disappointed if they are not forthcoming soon. I want to know where the Sunlords come from, how the settlers gothere in the first place, and where they are going from here.	2002-09-20
US	34844779	R1Z97STP1LX7BE	0970662211	19420774	Double Trouble (PDF and Palm Pilot formats)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Jaycee [full review on our website]<br />It was supposed to be a simple case. A simple body guard case that somehow went terribly wrong. <br />When Nancy Gilbert's sister, Tanya Stowell is murdered, the person she turns to for help is former Company agent Tom Casey. Afraid for herself and her family, Nancy hires Tom to protect her from her ex-husband who's just gotten out of prison. Believing Drew Harland, the ex, killed her sister, she panics when he suddenly turns up in town.<br />What Nancy, Tom, and his associates don't realize is that someone else is in the background with murder on the mind. When some of the main players, including the main suspect, start turning up dead themselves, Tom realizes that they could all be victims if this silent killer isn't caught, and soon! The question is are they too close to the forest to see the trees?<BR>~~~<BR>This is the stand-alone sequel to Ms LaPierre's THE ENEMY STALKS, and is every bit as good and then some. It takes place several years after TES and it was great to have a little update on how everyone is doing now. <br />DOUBLE TROUBLE is the perfect title for this story. It's exactly what Tom Casey, his wife Jennifer, and his associates have on their hands. For a while it's kind of hard to tell the warden from the inmates so-to-speak because at one time or another everyone seems to be a suspect to Tom. <br />Ms LaPierre does a terrific job of slowly revealing what she wants you to know. The plot is tightly woven, and the characters realistic enough to keep me turning pages as fast as I could read. I was as much in the dark as the characters about who was doing all the killing until the author finally gave enough clues for me to 'get it'.<br />If you're into suspenseful stories without a lot of graphic blood and guts you'll really enjoy this one from Ms LaPierre. I can highly recommend it	2002-09-20
US	34844779	R5X6JM9U3X3T6	1931696985	954609222	The Gunn of Killearnan	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Cindy Vallar [Full review on our website]<br />The bastard grandson of the chief of Clan Gunn, Gerek's prowess on the battlefield earns him the nickname, The Beast of Battle. The Covenantors, whose leaders wield the power in 17th-century Scotland want to hang him. In the guise of a monk, Gerek flees for the Highlands and the remote fastness that is home to his clan. On the way, he comes across a cottage inhabited by a red-haired lad who is none too pleased to see him. A struggle ensues and Gerek discovers that his opponent is actually a woman. Experience has taught him to trust no one, especially women, so he makes her his captive. <br />Since childhood, Catriona MacFarr has known only heartache and abuse. Too often she has felt the sting of her father's temper and endured the taunts of her brothers. Rather than obey her father's edict to wed the Beast of Battle, she runs away, only to become the prisoner of a man who claims to be a monk but isn't. Fearing that he will return her to her home should he learn the truth, she claims to be maid to Catriona MacFarr who has wrongly accused her of theft.<br />This bit of information intrigues Gerek, for he is to wed the MacFarr's daughter. Catriona tells outrageous lies about herself so that he will never suspect that she and the MacFarr's daughter are one and the same. Nor does she realize that he is the man her father insists she wed. While they live in close quarters together, each is attracted to the other. When strangers approach the cottage, Gerek remains behind to face them while sending Catriona on her way. Unbeknownst to either of them, the danger lies not at the cabin but on the path that Catriona takes. She runs into her brothers who place her in chains and return her to their father.<br />Baen Gunn is Gerek's cousin. Behind his facile smile and good looks lies a snake. If Gerek fails to marry before his next birthday, Baen will become chief, a position he covets. Present at the MacFarr Castle whenCatriona is brought in in chains, he is smitten by her beauty and wants her for himself. He devises a plan that plays on her fear of his cousin while putting her in his debt, thus setting in motion his plan to gain supremacy over the cousin he despises and become chief of Clan Gunn. <br />The Gunn of Killearnan tells the story of two strong people who wage internal battles while surmounting untold challenges to find love. This is not a story for the faint of heart, for the author paints a realistic portrait of a brutal time. Although her sense of place could be stronger, Dorice Nelson seamlessly interweaves subplots of secrecy, jealousy, and intrigue with the romance. A perfect story for those who like their romance tinged with history and mayhem	2002-09-16
US	34844779	R22K8YMWUSFUJS	1573430218	994041760	The Alliance	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Briana Lambert [Full review on our website]<br />The bug that was felt all around Pyrali was the one that bit Reuel Shatar. As governor of Pyrali and the eldest son of his house he is increasingly pressured to produce a male heir. His child will be the next ruler of the Alliance, and as time goes on, the pressure mounts. The only problem is the nasty bug that bit the governor. It's bite has rendered him infertile to the females of his species. Relief comes with the discovery that all is not lost. Reuel can reproduce with earthling females. The aliens have lived on his planet for many years, but are discriminated against and treated very much like inferiors.<br />Christa Kirklan is an earthling and a tireless supporter for the rights of her species. Outspoken, spunky, and stubborn about her rights, the young teacher has found herself imprisoned for treason when she went too far far with her demands for equal representation for earthlings in the Pyrali government for her fellow humans. She has no idea that the course of her fate will soon be altered. <br />When Reuel discovers that Christa is his best choice for a mate he is shocked. The woman is nothing like those of his own race. Instead of the demure quiet nature that he is used to, Christa immediately lets him know that she is no pushover. She reluctantly agrees to marry him when it becomes clear that she will be able to help the earthlings with her alliance to the governor. But this marriage is not destined for happily ever after. Reuel and Christa are very different people and they have much to learn from one another. Only by learning how to conform their duty and freedom, can they become a match to last a lifetime.<br />The Alliance was very unique both in its plotting and detail. Not just a futuristic, there were shades of Regency romance as well. Reuel and Christa were both three-dimensional characters that integrated well with the Pyrali world. Appealing to a wide audience, The Alliance is a standout!	2002-09-16
US	34844779	R2KZKO0G1HK213	1582005648	576257568	Millennium Magic (Romance Anthology) [3 1/2 Diskete, HTML]	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	...<br />As a young boy, Michael Curlew finds himself in Una Teague's backyard, a world of vibrant colors in Roberta Gellis' \\"The Colored World.\\" His first visit is all too brief, and soon he finds himself once again in his own world where everyone and everything are shades of gray. Each time he visits Una's world, however, problems arise. As the century draws to a close, Michael yearns to stay with Una, but his very presence in her world may well destroy her.<br />One kiss at a New Year's celebration and Luke Carver falls in love in \\"Black Satin at Midnight\\" by Robin Bayne. That memorable kiss, though, is all Luke has for the woman's date whisks her away before he learns her name. Nine months later, he takes his daughter to her first day of middle school and finds the woman of his dreams, his daughter's teacher. Cara Janson remembers him, too, but the millennium will soon be upon them and she knows there is no future for them or for her. <br />When her friend sends Sydney Parker a puzzle box for Christmas, she is ill prepared to face the secret she unravels in Jackie Kramer's \\"The Bride-Seeker.\\" Sydney finds herself kidnapped and taken to the future by Sergeant Drake Fremont. He knows nothing about love and romance. He's just looking for a woman to claim as his own. He may be handsome, but Sydney is not and never will be any man's possession. <br />Doreen Madison is proud of her daughter's and son-in-law's success in Jane Bierce's \\"The First of Someday.\\" When she meets their business partner, Lance Hoffman, at Cyber Horizon's New Year's Eve party, Doreen knows that it's time to return to her own life. Lance, however, disagrees.<br />It's New Year's Eve and Katie O'Keefe is supposed to be meeting her blind date in Diane Kirkle's \\"The Love Bug.\\" Instead, she waits for the computer technician to arrive because a bug has infected the company's computer system. She's not expecting the hunk who shows up or the crime he uncovers. By the time she reports to her boss and finishes with the police, the hunk is gone and she has fifteen minutes left before the New Year to join her date. After meeting the hunk, though, she's not sure she wants to.<br />Great-Aunt Lili is a ghost, or in this case, Jane Toombs' \\"Ghost of Love.\\" Lili's determined that Beth Spencer not make the same mistake she did. Beth, however, isn't listening. She's come home to put the past behind her, in particular one Ross Collins. Although Lili hints of a disaster to come, she is forbidden to explain further. Beth must uncover the truth herself before it's too late.<br />Gellis' distinction between a world of color and one of gray painted a stark contrast in my mind's eye and made me feel Michael's yearning for the vibrant beauty. Read after the Y2K scare ended, I felt Cara's fear of coming doom silly, yet Bayne's tale is a good old-fashioned love story that captured my heart. Kramer's delightful mix of chivalry of old with gallantry of tomorrow while capturing the essence of romance and love stirred my heart. Those who wish for dreams that seem impossible will enjoy Bierce's tale, but I found it the least satisfying of the six stories because too much of the story involves setting the scene and meeting the characters, leaving little time for the romance to bloom. <br />Kirk's story gets my vote as the best in the collection. Even though I figured out the ending early on, she compelled me to keep reading. Reading Toombs' story, I didn't have to close my eyes to imagine the house or the characters. Each was so memorable that they combined to make a wonderful story that I will remember for a long time to come.<br />The dawn of a new century ties all these stories together, but each author interprets this theme in unique ways to create very different and memorable stories of love. No matter whether you're a fan of contemporary romance, time travel, the paranormal, science fiction, or mystery, Millennium Magic will satisfy your craving.	2002-09-16
US	34844779	RT1I3SJ2RHQ1	1931095124	10182093	Black Orchids from Aum	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Timeless Tales review	by TT reviewer Anita Jo Stafford [full review on our website]<br />The Black Orchid from Aum is an anthology of stories by Gerard Houarner. \\"In the City of Aum anything can be bought. But you must always pay the price.\\" All of the stories focus on the inhabitants and travelers through Aum, the reason they have journeyed to Aum and the price they pay for their desires.<br />All travelers must pay for Aum's tongue, a parasitic bug that works as a universal translator. Without the translator the travelers to Aum cannot communicate and are destined to become less than the human population. People can only travel to Aum when their planets are aligned. When the convergence occurs, travelers can leave Aum for the planet that is aligned with the gateway. The city is dark, violent, decadent and in many ways beautiful. It is a multifaceted world in which danger lurks on every corner.<br />The first story involving the debt collector draws the reader into the heart of Aum. It is an excellent way to introduce the reader to the realities of Aum. Cray's story shows the reader the first of several stories that provide the reader an excellent view of life in Aum. As collector, Cray settles unpaid debts. After suffering through an abusive marriage, she no longer desires love. While she collects debts for others she is accruing one of her own. As the debt collected from Cray is revealed, the reader is drawn deeper into the book just as travelers are drawn to Aum. Kings, Princesses, rulers of all shapes and form pay for their desires in Aum. The title story, Black Orchids from Aum is riveting. Like the rest of the stories the Princess gets what she desires most. However, the price that Aum takes as payment again has a profound impact.<br />The Black Orchid from Aum is an excellent anthology and an insightful look into the human condition. The stories are well written with excellent imagery and plotting. This book is a good one to start with as a sampling of the work of Gerard Houarner. It catches the reader's attention. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Aum is a place where anything within the imagination is possible for a price. The price that the inhabitants pay is often everything. This book is unique and ingenious. Depending on what the reader wants to take from the stories, they can be anything from dark fantasies to warnings of what could be in a world with too much excess. This book is highly recommended.	2002-09-16
US	34844779	R2SDE7TMC7ZQ93	1584952903	86033052	Angel Wings	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	...<br />Angel Wings is a touching novel and easy read, written with elegant and poignant words by Edna Curry. I was captivated from the first chapter as it slams you into the story immediately. Twin sisters Laurie and LaRae meet again for a brief visit. LaRae is married and lives in Minneapolis with her husband, Jass, and daughter, Susie. From the get go LaRae complains about everything, from what she perceives as her weight problem from having a child to the fact that the hubby had tried to force her into bringing Susie. Laurie is confused by LaRae's complaints, as she would give all to find 'the' man. LaRae slips her wedding rings off when the two go to the salon, trying to trick the stylist in the old game of childhood.<br />Later, LaRae casually informs Laurie that she is divorcing Jass, she's had enough. Laurie is appalled but after her questioning is rebuffed, holds her tongue. Then in a surprising and unexpected twist, a van pulls out in the way of their car and their car slams into it. The next we know, the twins are floating side by side in some sort of tunnel. Emerging at the end, they find themselves in a beautiful garden with calming music playing in the background. There their deceased parents and a childhood friend, Emy, greet them. Laurie witnesses LaRae shaking her head at Emy and quickly floating away to be embraced by their parents. Laurie's curiosity is pricked. Upon speaking to Emy she is informed of the incidents leading to the young girl's suspicious death and what Emy does in the afterlife. She also learns that LaRae had just refused to return to life to protect her own daughter. <br />Laurie is shocked by the refusal of motherly protection and insists on taking her sister's place. Emy allows it, giving no aid, only that she will be watching. Laurie returns to life to learn she'd barely survived and her sister had died. Not only that, but they all believe she is LaRae! She is determined to tell Jass the truth, for she remembers nothing of hernear death experience. Before she can clear her conscience, Emy invades her dreams, playing her own death in reminder. The only difference? The little girl changes from Emy to Susie. <br />Determined to protect the now motherless girl, Laurie allows everyone to believe she is LaRae. Returning to Minneapolis, she plays the game as best she can. This would be enough for anyone but she also has to tackle the mess LaRae has made of her marriage.<br />This story was gripping. Not only did Ms. Curry weave a good tale, but she delivered the punch as well! This is not a story you'll be disappointed with at the end. Except maybe that it's over! I read Angel Wings through in one sitting. I was captivated by the blooming love and hope engrossed in the characters. Susie is precious and lovingly real. Good job Ms. Curry!	2002-09-16
US	34844779	R265D4SOS53SHX	1929925107	850132843	The Power of Love	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Lauryn Hale [Full review on our website]<br />The Power of Love starts out with young Travis fishing in a Lake Weohi with his grandfather. As the two sit waiting for the corks to disappear beneath the surface, Travis begins to ask questions. Some pertain to his parents that disappeared without a trace when they were on the island just ahead of them, Moon Island, which leads into Travis begging his grandfather to repeat the legend surrounding the island. Being part of their ancestry, his grandfather indulges him yet again and repeats the tale.<br />Many years before, their ancestors, the Toltec Indians, came up from Mexico when their enemies began practicing human sacrifices. They ended their journey in Florida and were driven inland by other tribes, finally settling on Moon Island. Weohi, a silver-eyed Toltec, was promised to the High Priest's son, Akando. She met and fell in love with a man named Muraco. They planned to run away together but were discovered. She was imprisoned in the Temple of the Sun with Akando guarding over her. In a desperate attempt to retrieve his love, Muraco charges the temple and kills Akando in the battle. The mission fails and Muraco is said to have been turned into the moon by the High Priest. Weohi grieved for her love and would cry all day, every day. On the eve of the Equinox Weohi walked from the temple and weeped for her lover. A red glow cast from the setting sun splayed across Weohi and she vanished. She was said to have become the lake, forever destined to love Muraco, the moon, from afar for the rest of time. It is said that when the wind visits Moon Island her mourning cries could still be heard, but only during the day.<br />The story picks up with Travis and his soon to be ex-wife, Dawn, agreeing to inform their children of their impending divorce. The two had been high school sweethearts but over the years of careers and raising children, they have drifted apart and become strangers. The weekend arrives and they meet at the house to talk to their kids. The pair, Summer and Cody, innocently plan a picnic at the legendary Moon Island, just across the Weohi Lake.<br />Unbeknownst to the two, Moon Island is at the core of their parent's problem. Travis inherited the land from his grandfather and wants to create a resort on the enchanted jungle island. Dawn, being the spokesperson for the United Neighbors, an environmental organization, is severely opposed to the destruction of such a historical island. <br />Humoring Cody and Summer, Dawn and Travis go to the island and get shut in the cabin during a surprise thunderstorm. When they venture out, they find the children have left effectively imposing a forced retreat for them. Travis has to be at a meeting the next day for a hearing involving the planned resort and leaves Dawn to retrieve the cell phone the kids left in case of emergency. <br />While he is gone Dawn begins to hear the legendary whaling, supposedly caused by Weohi weeping for her lover. Dizzy, their loyal mutt, takes off after the threat and while slightly apprehensive Dawn goes after the animal.<br />She can't ever quite catch up with him and when she does, she sees him through a dark tunnel in the dense vegetation, near the ruins she'd been warned never to explore. Thinking the animal has caught up to Cody and Summer and that they hadn't actually stranded them, Dawn plunges forward. Only the passage she thought led to Dizzy was only a trail through the surrounding jungle, it proves to be much, much more. <br />Travis and Dawn find themselves plunged back through time. Waking up naked and confused, they slowly explore the land around them. The local natives soon confront them and only time will tell what the outcome will be. However, Dawn and Travis begin to play out the ancient legend and both are frightened of the outcome. Can they escape and return to their children? And will their newfound love continue in their own world?<br />Janet Privett's talent shines through in this fabulous story. I was captivated! The spinning tale of Dawn and Travis, not to mention the rekindling love, cuts into your heart to make a lasting impression. Power of Love is so visual it feels as if you are the one in the past. The descriptions are so elegantly entwined into the story that you don't even realize you're reading, you're \\"seeing\\" it instead. Bravo to Ms. Privett for creating this wonderful tale.	2002-09-16
US	34844779	RY5UHAU7ZB4MV	158200515X	234636484	Once Upon a Dream (3 1/2 Diskette, HTML)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amanda Schmidt [full reveiw on our website]<br />Once Upon A Dream is a romantic love story that is set in the highlands of Scotland during the Fifteenth century. It centers around a beautiful young heroine, Gena Campbell, who is scorned by the people of her own clan for her truth telling visions. Although she is loved by her father and brother, she is a haunted woman who has no hope for a happy future until she meets Anthony McKay. He is the one man who is willing to overlook the rumors of her being mad and see the courageous and lovely woman.<br />It is not an easy beginning for either Gena or Anthony. Even though the marriage is at first forced, it quickly becomes something that both want as neither can deny their feelings for the other. But not everyone wishes them well and they have several obstacles to overcome first before they can truly be free to revel in the glory of their love. However, with the support and help of loving family members, Gena and Anthony are able to overcome the obstacles and have the love of a lifetime.<br />As a reader, I highly recommend this book for the person who enjoys the romance genre. I was delighted the whole time I read this book. It contained love, danger, humor, and that happy ending; that just leaves the reader with a good feeling all over. There were parts in the book that made this reader just laugh aloud. Still, there were other parts that had me cringing with worry for the heroine and the hero and clapping at the end for them. It is a book that moves fast and reads fast. This was the first time, I had read a book by Celia Dunbar but I know that I shall look for her books in the future.	2002-09-16
US	34844779	R17OBSH8MSRZMH	1929311052	176662424	Righteous Warriors	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Cindy Vallar [Full review on our website]<br />\\"Bleeding Kansas\\" aptly describes the struggle over whether Kansas would join the Union as a slave state or a free one. In May 1856, John Brown and his followers viciously kill several Kansas farmers on a raid at Pottawatomie Creek. Fourteen-year-old Hy Wilcox witnesses the aftermath of those brutal slayings. Although his father and he return to St. Louis, Hy cannot forget that fateful day.<br />With the surrender of Fort Sumter to the Confederacy, Missourians split on which side of the war to support. For Hy Wilcox there can be only one choice - the South. He and two friends help raid the Union arsenal in Liberty, where they meet Captain Jacques Verbow. Under Verbow's ironhanded tutelage, they become a crack group of raiders, visiting destruction on Unionists.<br />Franny Moone is Hy's sweetheart, but her mother frowns on their association and refuses to allow them to wed. During her mother's absence, Franny takes matters into her own hands and weds Hy in secret. Only after they consummate their marriage does she begin to wonder if she's made a serious error in judgement. As Hy's wife, she helps the raiders gain entry onto a steamboat, the consequences of which put her in serious jeopardy with the law.<br />Josiah Scarborough, a lieutenant in the Union Army, arrives in St. Louis with orders to run the Southern raiders to ground. Although initially mistaking Franny for a harlot, he soon realizes that their pasts are intertwined. He stays at the Moone's boarding house, and soon finds himself falling for Franny, even though her mother discourages this romance as well.<br />The irrevocable, yet seemingly innocent, decisions each makes and the secrets they keep set Hy, Franny, and Josiah on a collision course with each other and death.<br />Most novels that depict the Civil War choose arenas well known to readers. Ms. Campbell does a commendable job of picturing a less unfamiliar one. Righteous Warriors is awell-researched tale whose characters have all the inherent foibles humans wrestle with each day. Ms. Campbell allows readers to peek into their lives and forces us to wonder about the paths we take and the consequences we must face as a result of the choices we make. This is a realistic portrayal of how the intrusion of war can alter our intentions and forever change us.	2002-09-16
US	34844779	R2MZY7BDU5PISL	1582005893	684071002	Honeysuckle Rose [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Briana Lambert [Full review on our website]<br />Rose DeAngelo is at the end of her rope. Nothing seems to be going right. Her job working for an insurance agency is extremely high stress, her boyfriend wants to discuss their upcoming marriage while she is working and her boss is frustrated by all the claims into their agency. It seems that someone is targeting long distance truckers and hijacking them. The incidents have been getting more frequent, causing the stress to increase exponentially. Suddenly, it is all too much for Rose and she storms out of the office, leaving her secretary, boss, fiancé and future mother in law staring after her. Rose just has to get away from it all. As she drives, a storm crops up and in an instant her car is engulfed in flames.<br />Department of Transportation investigator Mike Ramsey jumps into action when he sees the accident. He manages to extricate the barely inured woman, though her car is a total loss. Investigator Mike is shocked when he discovers that the prime suspect in the case he is investigating is sitting right in front of him. Ever since Rose gained a promotion at the insurance agency, the hijackings began occurring. A few incidents to start, the hijackings have increased with alarming frequency and violence. Mike is certain that the beautiful career woman is at the heart of the criminal organization. He agrees to carry an attractive shipment to the west coast, in the hopes that he can break the ring himself.<br />When Rose asks to accompany Mike on his trip, the man readily agrees. He can get to know his chief suspect and only she will know the impulsive changes in route that he will make. If he is still hijacked, he will have his proof that she is some how involved. Mike never plans on falling in love with his beautiful suspect though. How will his feelings complicate his investigation? Will his suspicions destroy their love?<br />Honeysuckle Rose was an intriguing story. I felt unending sympathy for Rose and the stress of her day to day life. It was a treat to see her as she became free of the shackles that bound her. Mike is an understated romantic hero, both suspicious and drawn to Rose at the same time. Romance and mystery collide in Honeysuckle Rose, and the ensuing blend is a delight.	2002-09-16
US	34844779	R3JJ59ODFZR6C1	1931095086	693040553	Crystal Treasure	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	...<br />Following a disastrous docking at a space station, luxery liner Captain Henry Crystal is stripped of his command and relieved of duty. He retires in disgrace because the black box from his tug has never been recovered. He has no way to prove his innocence . . . <br />Many years later, his granddaughter, Captain Celeste Crystal, arrives at the space station to take up her new duties of guiding larger ships into docking bays, which wasn't available when her grandfather was still working. Determined to regain his honor for him before he dies, Celeste hopes to find the missing black box, which has been adrift in space for ages. She also hopes to win accolades for herself and her crew by winning a contest for space tugs, who compete against each other in shooting down asteroids and space debris that endanger the space stations.<br />While practicing for the contest, she manages to keep an eye out for the missing black box, but just as she spots it, she's forced to break off the chase and return to base to warn the authorities of an invading fleet. <br />Will she ever be able to exonerate her grandfather? While rich in dialogue and nicely peopled with interesting characters, this story is a little bit short on the action that would keep it moving ahead at the pace most readers would expect.	2002-09-16
US	34844779	R3IG7O149N88WH	1582006210	58679769	Southern Cross [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Vurlee Bales [Full review on our website]<br />Southern Comfort is a time travel that takes us from a modern day restored plantation mansion to the post Civil War ruins in Louisiana. After finding the diary of the plantation's founder, Amanda Jackson switches places with her ancestor, Angelique Beaumont. Mystery and confusion surround her as Angelique's father has her fake her death and hide in New Orleans until he comes for her. When the time passes with no word from Angelique's father, Amanda is forced to work with Nicholas St. Laurent, the owner of a well-known jewelry establishment. Desperate for the funds to return to Belle Reve and Angelique's father, she tries to sell her diamond pendant to Nicholas, who recognizes it as a piece he commissioned for Justin Beaumont's daughter, Angelique.<br />When confronted, she explains that she is Angelique, forced to hide her identity until her father sends for her. Nicholas then explains that she can't be Angelique, since he heard she was saved from the river and married the man who rescued her. Amanda convinces Nicholas the other woman is an impostor and they travel to the ruins of Belle Reve to solve the mystery of what happened to Angelique's father, and why someone is impersonating her. Along the way, they find love, passion, and the answer to a mystery that has haunted the St. Laurent family for years.<br />Ms. Opdyke has created a story that is filled with mystery, humor and love. Her characters are very much alive within the pages and the events and reactions are very believable. If you've ever wondered what happens to the displaced person in a body switch time travel, Southern Comfort fills you in with scenes about not only Amanda in the past, but Angelique in the future. This story was very entertaining and a must read for those who love time travels.	2002-09-16
US	34844779	RIS46TIZ7JUS9	1893896099	183257896	Vampire Apocalypse Book One	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy Stark [Full review on our website]<br />What would you think if you were a young child, awakened from your sleep and fed upon by a centuries old vampire? Would you think it real or would you think it a dream? <br />Years later, as an adult, would the memory of that childhood dream stay with you? Fascinate you? <br />What would you do if you found yourself at a bizarre Halloween party where everyone was dressed as a vampire and you found your friend's new boyfriend drinking the life out of her, literally? What would you think when he turns to you and sinks his fangs deep into your neck?<br />What would you think when you dream your childhood dream again, waking up from it in an unfamiliar bed belonging the stranger that saved your life? A man you find intriguing, powerful, dangerous and sensuous?<br />How would you react when the truth comes out, and his secrets are spilled in blood all over your living room floor?<br />If you're Lorelei Fletcher, you're about to find out. Book One introduces the reader to Lorelei Fletcher, a strong minded, independent young woman with a fascination for vampires thanks to a childhood experience she remembers in her dreams, and to Julian Cavanaugh, the vampire who saves her life and has forsaken his people's way, swearing off human blood. <br />Lorelei barely bats an eye as she learns who and what Julian Cavanaugh is. She doesn't cower in fear; she doesn't send him away. She accepts him as a man, and as a vampire. She stands by him, returning his favor by saving his life twice over. More than that, she trusts him and is willing to journey down to and through the Vampire city by his side, with an unwavering faith in him to keep her safe. Fate brought them together. He needed her to be complete and she was more than willing to give herself.<br />Julian is not just any vampire. At 800 years old, he's extremely powerful and he's becoming something more. More what? No one knows. Not even the Senior. Not even the mysterious cloaked figure timeless in his antiquity. The only thing they all know is that Julian is starting to change. He's sleeping less at night, he is very slowly building immunity to sunlight, he does not need to feed on human blood and in the short time he's been with Lorelei, he has survived feeding off another vampire twice. They also knew that in order to complete this change, Julian needs her. But how can he take the woman he loved? Or does he have to?<br />Mysterious, sensual, compelling, erotic, witty; these are all words that describe \\"Julian\\", the first tome in Katriena Knights' \\"The Vampire Apocalypse\\". Katriena Knights shows her skill at characterization in this story. She shows us who Lorelei and Julian are through their actions as well as through glimpses into their psyches. We feel Julian's pain and concern that his loving Lorelei will only lead to her death. We experience Lorelei's courage as she fights to save Julian and we get to know them further through the actions and reactions of the secondary characters toward them.<br />The plot is intriguing, filled with mystery and not without a twist or two. However, while some of the sub-storylines are complete, the main story lingers unresolved, leaving the reader with more questions than answers and anxious to move on to Book 2: Nicholas.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R1Y1XNOBYJGQZM	1931742952	336020894	Winning Chance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Briana Lambert [full review on our website]<br />A Winning Chance is the merry tale of not quite mistaken identity, wistful dreams and a love to last a lifetime. Twenty-something Lori Hayes is shocked when she receives a Federal Express letter saying that she is the finalist in a dream date contest. She certainly never entered this contest, and cannot imagine where the contest organizers got her name. After a call to them sheds no light on the confusion, Lori decides to attend the televised event anyway. She is tantalized by the thought that the prizes include a 'Dream Home' or a set of matching convertibles. A car is a luxury that Lori had to give up when she formed her vintage clothing shop. Her days are long, but rewarding, but the long walks to and from work leave her tired and irritable.<br />Lori's life is further complicated by her allergies, which are ever present upon her return from work every day. Instead of relaxing, her evenings are spent in stuffed up misery. She is also annoyed by her next door neighbor's annoying propensity for playing motivational uplifting songs every night as she starts to go to sleep. The mysterious male neighbor is said to strut around in his underwear, and Lori and her neighbor start to refer to the mysterious presence as Calvin, in honor of his preferred attire. She and Calvin enjoy nightly chats between their too thin walls, but never meet face to face.<br />Chance Dawson has a plan. After the abandonment at a young age by his parents, Chance is determined to make a home and family for himself. With the help of a good friend's father, he sets up a structure of his goals. A dream house is the next goal he must meet. While his apartment isn't terrible, he is chagrined by the relative thinness of the walls and the fact that one neighbor in particular is always knocking on his walls and complaining about his inspirational music. Chance decides to enter the contest in the hopes that he will win. Love isn't part of his plan for a few years, so he must only have fun with the winner of the contest, while keeping his heart removed.<br />When Chance and Lori find themselves chosen to go on a dream weekend date, they fight an immediate attraction to each other. Lori thinks Chance is far too handsome and represents trouble to her. Chance is enchanted by the russet haired beauty, but love just isn't in the cards until after he has a house. Can these secret neighbors let their guard down enough to experience a dream romance?<br />I could live on a constant diet of Betty Jo Schuler's brand of romantic comedy! Lori and Chance were lovingly constructed characters that involved me in their story from the first page. Their capers as they tried to thwart the omnipresent contest staff while on their getaway had me chuckling. The suspense that built as the neighbors passed tantalizingly close had me reading on frantically. The payoff was well worth the wait! Take a chance with this book, you'll find that you have hit the jackpot!	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R1Y6DKHGAJXQFR	158749163X	838149738	Stroke of Luck	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Marysa  [full review on our website]<br />What would you do if one day, without any warning, you lost your autonomy? What would you do if, suddenly, you weren't able to walk, move, dress yourself, or even eat by yourself? What would you do if the easiest and simplest thing in your life became a monstrous task? Lose your mind? I know I would.<br />This is what happens to Debbie Hunt. One day, after a massive stroke, she finds herself in a rehabilitation center, unable to move, talk, or take care of herself. Short of thirty years old, owner of a successful interior design business, Debbie finds herself alone in the world to face the biggest challenge of her entire life; Being able to be herself again.<br />Fortunately, with the help of her rehabilitation roommate, Debbie meets Jake; a thirty-year-old man who just left the army. Jake is a man waiting to grow up. Restless and full of energy, he is looking forward to relaxing for a while after his 8 years in the military, but his aunt Molly has other ideas. After offering him to Debbie as her help when she goes home, Jake finds himself unable to say no to his favorite aunt.<br />Being together 24 hours per day, seven days a week, Jake and Debbie slowly realize that the friendship they started during his days visiting his aunt at the rehabilitation center was turning into something more. But as Debbie grows more and more attached to Jake, she vows to herself never to be a burden to anyone-- much less any man, including her friend, Jake. Even though she is clearly falling in love she denies it with all of her might.<br />Despite the sometimes too short descriptions, Stroke of Luck really makes you think about everything that we take for granted, and how hard it is for someone to rebuild what was lost. Even the tiniest thing we do every day, like brush our hair, seems like the biggest task to accomplish. If you want a deep romance where the heroine and hero face personal challenges, this book is for you.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R3DTHYIWJ4CWW7	0759904030	119795367	Bear Hugs	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Sam [full review on our website]<br />Hunter Blackwell spends most of his day in a bear suit for his lead role in a popular children's show, Bidwell Bear. He loves children, but dreams of becoming a professional singer. Paige Holbrook loathes life in the fast lane. She has been a celebrity's wife, and it cost her her marriage. When her son ends up in a coma after a car accident, she turns to the hero little Jamie idolises, Bidwell Bear. Hunter finds himself getting increasingly involved in the life of Paige and Jamie. Can Paige handle another relationship where the media will watch their every move?<br />I don't know about you, but I have had it up to here (hand to throat-level) with cardboard people with cardboard emotions having a life that not even soap operas can match. If one of the characters in a romance is a celebrity, you can be sure that you are going to be disgruntled and disgusted by their behavior sooner or later. And when that happens, read Bear Hugs, and your faith in celebrities' humanity will be restored.<br />This story is highly enjoyable. The characters have depth; the plot is believable, flows effortlessly and holds the reader's attention. The couple have respect for each other, and they are on equal standing. Paige is a wonderful mother. The passages which describe her concern and anguish over her son are very touching. But the best character by far is Hunter. He is not racing after money and fame. <BR>What delighted me was his sheer niceness. Every woman should have a Hunter Blackwell in her life. It is so refreshing to read about an artist who knows what the real goals are in life, not drugs, babes and fun, but honesty, a clean life and love. He has true qualms about what to do with his life; gain satisfaction by making children happy or pursue his dream. It is not often that these kinds of choices are analyzed with such good results in romance novels. Bear Hugs is in many ways an untraditional romance, placing so much emphasison choices. Ms. McBlain pulls it off beautifully, though. There are many pitfalls when writing this kind of romance, and Ms. McBlain has avoided them all. Next time you hear someone complain of the quality of e-books, give them Bear Hugs.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R2JPYM8JSIVW6H	1931696802	577958395	Dream Knight	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Susan E. DeWitt [full review on our website]<br />Can dreams come true? Lady Catheryn of Brezden in DREAM KNIGHT thinks so when she put a yarrow-filled sachet, a dream bag, underneath her pillow and dreamt of destruction and perhaps a forthcoming love. Soon the events of her dream start to unfold, and she attempts to meet them head on. It's not until later that the full meaning of her dream becomes apparent. Even though she believes Gerard to be the man in her dream, her dream knight, she is still hesitant to trust him and allow herself to love him. At 19, Catheryn is under the supervision of a baron, Pike, and another gentleman, de Brye, since both of her parents are dead, though she is considered Lady Catheryn of Brezden. Pike and de Brye are both unkind men; de Brye has plans of marrying the young Catheryn. Catheryn is a strong woman, but it is quite obvious that she fails to realize that she cannot control Brezden on her own. She fails to acknowledge the good things that Gerard does, and doesn't want to trust him.<br />Gerard Reveur comes to Brezden to avenge his former wife and newborn son's death, and claims Brezden as his in the name of King Stephen and Earl William. Gerard is just as unwilling to allow himself to trust Catheryn as she is him.<br />The hero and heroine meet for the first time in her chambers, when Gerard discovers Catheryn passed out on her bed from a recent beating. It is clear from the initial encounter that the two will be at odds, both being strong willed and untrusting people, but that the attraction is strong for them both. Throughout DREAM KNIGHT, Gerard and Catheryn struggle to work together as well as against one another, including fulfilling the wishes of King Stephen and Earl William. But through that struggle they grow to love and trust one another. Two things neither of them thought themselves capable of.<br />Set in Medieval England, DREAM KNIGHT is a well written, enjoyable read. The writing is done well, the dialogue clear and not overdone, with a good balance of action and narrative throughout the book. The love scenes belonged in the book, and did not seem forced, were not overdone and did not go on incessantly. Catheryn and Gerard are both well-rounded, three-dimensional characters. The two characters developing from strong willed, independent people to two people who love and trust one another is believable. De Brye is a wonderful protagonist, though I would have liked to have learned a little bit more behind his reasoning for his interest in Brezden. The subplots all end up being connected in a round about way, and is accomplished in a non-confusing way. Even the dream sequence Catheryn has at the beginning is intertwined throughout the story to create quite a climactic ending. The fact that Catheryn accepted Gerard as the man in her dream, and didn't just bend to his will, was an important aspect to the story, and made her in my eyes a strong heroine. I would recommend DREAM KNIGHT to anyone who enjoys medieval romances and is a book I would read again.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R3OZMT1054GJ77	1591050340	984985125	The Scottish Thistle	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amanda Schmidt [Full review on our website]<br />Set in one of the most turbulent times in Scottish history, Scottish Thistle gives us the heartrending story of love coming from war. Rory is a young, lovely, intelligent woman who is chieftain to an outlawed clan. Over the course of her young lifetime, she has witnessed things that no one, especially a child, should ever have to see, including the murder and destruction of her clan. While these events would have destroyed a lesser person, they made Rory a stronger person, but her inner strength has come with a high price. It has become nearly impossible for her to trust, and to love. Duncan Cameron, meanwhile, has grown up as the foster son to a powerful chieftain whose clan is respected, and Duncan himself is the chief's own personal bodyguard. <br />While Rory and Duncan meet under a strange set of circumstances, it was destiny. Rory's late father and Duncan's foster father, Sir Donald, had come to an arrangement years ago that Rory would marry a man of Sir Donald's choosing. Rory has a hard time accepting this, but for the sake of her clan, she gives in and marries Duncan. They are just beginning to understand the love they have for each other when events unfold that will forever change the course of their lives. Charles Edward Stewart comes back to Scotland and leads the clans in an uprising that would restore the Stewarts to the throne. While not happy with going to war over something that already seems lost, Duncan and the Clan Cameron go out of loyalty to the Stewarts. Though the war goes badly and the Stewart cause is lost, Duncan and Rory come to realize just how great their love is for each other.<br />I really enjoyed this book. Rory is definitely an independent woman, which is unusual for the time period. Duncan is the perfect hero. He accepts Rory as she is, and doesn't try to change her. I also like the fact of how their story is told among the events of the uprising of 1745. I would recommend this novel to anyone who enjoys romance set against a major historical event.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R167YARCQKCRVG	1931696764	542710829	Married by Mistake	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Timeless tales review	By TT reviewer Laurie Alice Eakes [Full review on our website]<br />Married By Mistake is the delightful story of Gabrielle Alexandra Lynn-Edred and Dante Werian, Marquess of Edenvale. Gabrielle, otherwise known as Stormy, is a spirited beautiful young woman who has been unjustly accused and jailed for the crime of attempted suicide. Dante is the young nobleman who, by chance, happens to come upon her in a desperate time of need. Upon finding themselves in difficult circumstances, Dante and Gabrielle decide that the only option left open to them is marriage. What is supposed to be a marriage of convenience and a marriage in name only takes a twist as Gabrielle and Dante find that they can not deny the feelings that they have for one another.<br />Although their feelings are strong for each other, there are other outside forces that throw up obstacles to their relationship. Gabrielle's Uncle and guardian has made it appear to the outside world that she is an insane young woman when nothing could be farther from the truth. He plans to control her finances through her supposed insanity. Dante's parents stand in their way as well. These are two people who hold considerable power and can be very ruthless when crossed. Through it all, Dante and Gabrielle must learn to see through the half-truths and rumors in order to finally be able to trust in their love for each other. Only when they realize that sometimes decisions that may seem like a mistake at the time have a way of turning out for the best, will they be able to find a love that will last for a lifetime.<br />I found this book to be a delight. As the hero and heroine of the story, Dante and Gabrielle were wonderful. They weren't content to just wait for fate to deal her hand but took actions of their own. I'd recommend this book to anyone who enjoys any type of a historical romance.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R1EH4CRM9M70ZP	1928670458	251792706	Flowers in the Night	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Sam [full review on our website]<br />Emilie Ferrier is the last member of a rich and eccentric family. Polio in her childhood left her crippled and infertile. She desperately wants to adopt a child, and in the meantime is working as a teacher for troubled children. Nick Garret is taking care of his nephew and niece after the death of his sister and her husband. He is not sure whether he can handle raising two children by himself, but is certain that the strange feeling he gets in his stomach every time he looks at the teacher of his 9-year-old nephew does not bode well. Emilie believes that she has no chance at love because she is crippled, and if a man would want her, it would only be because of her money. Her ex-husband taught her that. Nick sees through her calm demeanor to the sadness in her life, but believes that he is too far below her to have any chance. He is just a mechanic from a family where happiness seems to elude the members. How can he find love and take care of his sister's children, then? Besides, his sister's dying wish was that the children be raised by two parents, and since Nick has no intentions of marrying, giving the children up for adoption seems to be the best way out of this dilemma.<br />Flowers in the Night tells the story of how two people find love when they think they are far too sensible to even look for it. The story could be called predictable, had it not been for the unexpected twist of the heroine bring rich and famous rather than the hero. It is very entertaining to watch them handle their growing attraction. Nick with his integrity, charm and doubts about entering into a relationship where the woman is economically superior is just the kind of hero most women will fall for. The most intriguing figure, however, is not Nick or Emilie or even Emilie's dotty aunt Elspeth, but the founder of the Ferrier dynasty (eccentricity personified) Jacques Ferrier. There are a couple of loose ends, though. One is Amber's silence. It is introduced as if it would play a major part in the development of the plot, but it seems as if the authors forget about it. Another is the fact that Emilie cannot have children of her own. She tells this to Nick in the beginning of the novel, and tells it again at the end as if it was unexpected news.<br />Nevertheless, the authors have managed to do what few have achieved; to describe loneliness. The story is beautifully written, evoking strong emotions and making the reader hope that Emilie and Nick can overcome their grief and find happiness with each other. It is poignant, sad at times, and well worth reading.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R3TWTTO9PH0046	189486980X	66053122	DREAMS OF DARKNESS: The Everdark Wars, book 1	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Cat  [full review on our website]<br />Randrik alt Harbinnen has been blessed with certain Talents. However, he prefers to use them for his own enrichment, rather than joining the Temple. His aunt, the Prime Seeker, knows this and tries to respect his decision. So he is surprised when she comes to him for help, and even more surprised at what she wants him to do. His task is to seduce one of the Temple Adepts.<br />Perian is a Nomad who was orphaned when very young. All of her people are born with Power. But her treatment by the people who raised her has caused her to suppress her nature. If she doesn't find a way to get beyond this, she will die. The Temple hopes that Randrik will be able to do this.<br />Randrik is reluctant to take advantage of her in this way. But the Temple is determined to follow through with their plan, and will use somebody else if he is unwilling. So he decides to take Perian from the Temple and return her to her own people. He hopes that they will be able to help her. They head for the forest, avoiding the people searching for them, and fighting the attraction between them. Will they finally admit to the bonds growing between them? <br />I enjoyed this book very much. Randrik and Perian were very likable characters. I also liked many of the secondary characters and wouldn't mind knowing more about them. I would have liked more background on their world, and I hope that will be covered in the future. I am definitely looking forward to reading the next book.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R352GRFKJSUDL7	1553160215	933932737	Slapstick	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Starly [full review on our website]<br />Harold Gilbert had it made. A fine film career, his own studio where he made successful silent pictures.<br />He owned a fabulous mansion, loved his beautiful wife Ella and their two sweet kids. His leading lady Lila Lenor could hold her own with the best of them. His camera and studio crew were not only employees, but they were friends. <br />Was it the advent of talkies that caused the problem, or the defection of Max all those years ago? Maybe it was the failure of Ella's attempt of a movie comeback after the kids were born. Her escalating coldness sure didn't help, nor did the studio's insistence, under the baleful eye of the lawyers, that the next film had to be a talkie. <br />Upright and proper, Harold had never strayed in a world where infidelity was the norm. But Ella's illness left him lonely and vulnerable. A final, monumental betrayal seemed to be the last straw. And then the dream returned. <br />This story is an intimate portrait of life in the moving picture arena of the roaring twenties. Fast custom made cars, illegal booze and legal pot made a society crazy for pleasure. The stock market crash and subsequent depression changed lives overnight. <br />Ever wonder what it would be like to live in Hollywood in the days of bootleg gin and silent films? Ms Toops creates the period with just the right atmosphere of reckless gaiety. <br />This story is beautifully written with artistry that transforms reading into an almost tactile experience. I swear I could smell the booze, her writing was so real. <br />To visit the 20's pick up Slapstick. You'll be there within the first paragraph.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R2VS4INZH9MYQQ	1590889754	567912185	Shadows of the Eclipse	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amanda Schmidt [full review on our website]<br />Elisabeth Ryan is a white woman who survived seeing her family massacred by Indians while en route to Oregon Arakashe is an Indian warrior of the Crow Tribe. They meet when Arakashe kidnaps her right after the slaughter of her family. Though neither he nor his tribe are in any way responsible for what has occurred, it is not easy for Elisabeth to trust him. After all she has seen and endured, she cannot accept that he means her no harm. However, she cannot ignore the strong pull of attraction to Crow Warrior.<br />Even though Arakashe and Elisabeth come to accept their feelings for each other and the tribe welcomes Elisabeth, there are many obstacles that each must overcome. They are not alone in their quest for a lifetime love. Arakashe and Elisabeth are guided along on their love quest by a special spirit who shows them they way. Can they cross the two cultures of white and Indian for a lifetime of love together? Can Elisabeth learn a new way of life with the proud warrior by her side?<br />Shadows of the Eclipse is not all sweetness and light, but is a captivating read. Intense issues are tackled with grace and realism, making for there are some heavy issues brought up, it is a memorable story. I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys this genre.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R2I1BAHQMX0C64	1893896099	183257896	Vampire Apocalypse Book One	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy Stark [Full review on our website]<br />Book Two of The Vampire Apocalypse focuses on the story of Nicholas, a young vampire. Having been turned just three years ago, Nicholas doesn't have the strength or the ability to control his bloodlust on Halloween, causing him to take his new girlfriend, Dina. When her friend Lorelei bursts in on the feeding, he turns on her too, only to be stopped at last by Julian, an 800-year-old vampire. <br />When the bloodlust passes, Nicholas is devastated. This was not what he had wanted at all. He cares deeply for Dina, but he had simply lost control. Surprisingly, Dina had survived the attack as only a few others had in the past. But like the others, the brief healing period would be followed by a slow death, and it was enough to break Nicholas' heart. Thankful that Dina did not remember the attack, and therefore didn't realize that it was he who had been her attacker, he stays by her side making her as comfortable as possible.<br />And then, as if this wasn't bad enough, he gets the word that the Senior has been killed and replaced by none other than Julian. Still, he has to join Vivian, his maker, on the trek into the underground Vampire city to pay his respects and swear his loyalty. Knowing that they cannot leave Dina to care for herself they bring her with them.<br />And the hits just kept coming. Upon arriving, Nicholas, Dina and Vivian come face to face with not only Julian but also Lorelei who does remember what Nicholas had done. Dina is whisked away from him, and he is left to try to explain his actions to Julian. But how do you explain what you don't understand yourself?<br />Julian may not like Nicholas, but he is fair and hears him out. Curious about why the bloodlust has come upon Nicholas, Julian digs a little deeper and all are surprised at what he finds. Dina has been dying of cancer, and coincidentally, Nicholas had been dying of cancer too when Vivian made him the offer of eternal life. Did hercancerous blood call to him? Did it have an extraordinary effect? And most importantly, was there a way to save Dina now?<br />With the help of a top-notch doctor, it was determined that Dina could in fact be saved, but at a high cost. Is Nicholas willing to pay the price? Will Dina let him? And how does Julian fit in to this?<br />While showing very rich characterization, Book Two: Nicholas is a more plot driven story than Katriena Knights' previous book in this series. We learn more about the kind of man Nicholas is because we are shown it rather than being told it, which adds so much more to the story. We empathize with his dilemma. He does not want to take someone against their will, but still does not have the strength to fight the compulsion he feels at times. We're shown who he is by how tenderly he cares for Dina after the attack, up to and including the willingness to end his own existence so that she may live, by his relationship with Vivian and his interaction with both Julian and Lorelei.<br />However, the main focus is on the intricate plot that twists and turns and keeps you guessing. Book Two certainly moved the story that was started in Julian forward, adding crucial pieces to the puzzle. However, the reader is left with a lot of questions to be answered and anxiously awaiting Book Three.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	RVPI30ML5I3O1	187696202X	123302052	Reality's Plaything (Act 1 of the Godwar Saga, Book 1 of the Ring Realms Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer K.L Frizzell [full review on our website]<br />Bannor Starfirst is a woodsman in love with Elven Sarai, or so he thinks. Very quickly, he finds himself having to save his beloved from an unspeakable crime. Quiet, honest and, of course, handsome would describe Bannor. All he wants is to save Sarai from the evil creatures and live a simple life. It is a little difficult to foresee the future when Bannor is at the end of a hangman's noose, and the love of his life has been kidnapped by the comrades of the villains who tried to rape her. <br />Sarai is an Elven princess who defied her father's wishes of marrying another by fleeing. She is small and beautiful. Her one wish would be to be able to take care of herself, without depending on men. Soon she finds trouble, as elves tend to do. Her One saves her, only to be taken to a village to be hung as she is stuck in a cage at the mercy of the demons. <br />Things heat up fast as Wren and Irodee save Bannor from the noose and proceed on a journey to save his one love, Sarai. Bannor knows the two odd women are not helping out of generosity. They want something from him, but he is too weak and disorientated to figure out what it is they seek. Bannor had always thought he was a mundane, a person without magical abilities. He finds out early on, after Wren and Irodee rescue him, that is the furthest thing from the truth. In saving Sarai, he accidentally infuses her with part of his awesome powers. Sarai adjusts to her new powers much quicker than Bannor, as she has finally fulfilled her desire to be able to protect herself. The four travel through basic hell, being chased by all manners of devils, demons and plain evil beings. <br />Reality's Plaything is such a well-written and imaginative read; this reviewer could never provide an accurate description. Will Greenway has the unique ability to draw you into the story and plot from the first sentence. Although a long manuscript, it is very well done, and if shorter, the story would not have been as compelling. The author has combined well defined central characters with equally fascinating secondary and other minor characters. His imagination is spectacular, and is able to convey that wonder to the written page. <br />I would highly recommend this read to both futuristic and science fiction fanatics. I would not be surprised to see Will Greenway on the best seller list, and he will be a future mainstay for all science fiction readers. This book takes futuristic and science fiction to new and previously unknown heights. I honestly don't think five stars is enough, if you download one book this year, make it this one, it's well worth it!	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R2RNM3GMT2KFWJ	1582006148	285244875	Podok Tales #1 : The Tailnapping [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Cat [Full review on our website]<br />Roger Denton thought he was in luck when he met the Podok in his favorite bar. A college professor, who taught classes on alien cultures, he often went there in the hopes of meeting aliens, but had never seen a Podok before. Little did he know that this meeting would turn his life upside down.<br />The Podok, who called himself Steve, seemed very pleasant and they spoke for a while and shared several drinks. Then Steve suggested going out for a walk. They are soon set upon by three thugs and Steve is kidnapped. Podok tail, apparently, is considered a delicacy and worth a lot of money. Will Roger be able to help his new friend, and rescue him with tail intact?<br />Podok Tales is an amusing, fast paced story. Just you think that nothing more can go wrong, it does. I felt sorry for poor Roger, who is dragged into situation after situation quite against his will. The aliens are intriguing as well, and there are interesting secondary characters. I will be interested in seeing what other stories this author comes up with.	2002-09-15
US	34844779	R30LYJ38GJVN7A	1843601990	572938057	Rayven's Awakening	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Timeless Tales Review	By TT reviewer Brenda Gill  [full review on our website]<br />Rayven has always been different from the people around her. She is an orphan and has always been overlooked by the couples who want to adopt a child. Her differences make the prospective parents uneasy. She is a child prodigy, a genius. She scores higher on standardized IQ tests than any other person tested before. She has eyes of an unusual gold color that seem to look right though a person. Her differences make her a loner.<br />He comes to her in the guise of a giant black hawk, and warns her of danger. Rayven thinks it was a dream until she realizes her foster parent's house was on fire. She is the only one to survive the fire. Rayven is surprised when, a few days later, she is arrested and charged with arson and the murder of her foster parents. She manages to escape and stays on the run for 13 long years. Rayven is captured and taken to the planet, Varood, where she is questioned by General Karis. She learns that she is the last of her race, the Aware. She was sent to Earth by her parents to escape the massacre that killed most of her kind. The Aware are a race with strange and frightening powers, and those in the Galactic are afraid of them, so they tried to exterminate them.<br />Rayven escapes with the help of a giant black hawk, the same one she thought she saw in her dream so many years before. She learns the hawk is really a man named Draco. He takes her though a dimensional doorway to the planet Hostes, where she meets the last remnant of her race. There she will test the extent of her powers and abilities to help save the last of her kind. As Rayven awakes to the power of passion, she has to save the people depending on her and come to terms with the feelings she has for the strange and sensuous man, Draco.<br />Rayven's Awakening is an exciting blend of science fiction, fantasy, and romantica. Ms. King has combined the different genres into a fast-paced, smoothly written tale. The love scenes are like molten lava, they're so hot, but they advance the story. They aren't put on the page to arouse and titillate, but to show the reader the deep love and greater passion Rayven and Draco have for each other. This book is going on my \\"keeper shelf\\" to be read again and again.	2002-09-14
US	34844779	R3OX2IAM820R32	1931696896	856218052	Desert Dreams	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Brenda Gill [full review on our website]<br />Kane is a hybrid Djinni, part human, whose last master betrayed him and helped imprison him in the ewar or bottle. He vows vengeance against the ones who put him in the bottle. He doesn't expect the one who releases him to be a strong, independent woman. Nor does he expect to be wildly attracted to her. <br />Therese Hunter is the curator of the Islamic Historical Arts Museum. One day she finds a bottle that isn't on any of the property lists of the museum. As she is examining the bottle, it begins to move, and the stopper pops out. She is awestruck when a blue mist comes out of the bottle. The blue mist is joined by a black, evil-looking mist and Therese thinks she sees two figures in the combining mists. Her husband, Jury, a homicide detective, is coming to pick her up from her day's work and hears her cry out. Thinking Therese is in danger, he comes running into the room to help her. Somehow, he trips on the stairs and falls down them. Therese tries to help him and is injured herself. She wakes up in the hospital, only to find out that her husband is dead and she has lost the child she carried. There is no sign of the bottle.<br />A few weeks later, Therese is surprised to find the bottle in her attic. She watches speechless as the blue mist again seeps out of the bottle. She can't believe her eyes when the mist slowly forms into the best-looking man she's ever seen. The last thing Therese wants is a \\"genie-man\\" interfering in her life, and she agrees to help him find the ones who imprisoned him, if he will just leave her alone. <BR> <BR>Therese and Kane fight their growing attraction for each other. Therese has just lost her husband, so how can she be falling in love with a man from myths and fairy tales? Kane doesn't understand the feelings of lust and tenderness for a human so unlike any woman he's ever known. But sinister forces are at work, threatening to separate Kane and Therese. Is Kane somehowresponsible for Jury's death? Did Therese call Kane to her and, in some way, cause the death of her husband? What secrets is Kane hiding, and who is the powerful demon Djinni who wants to kill both of them.<br />DESERT DREAMS is an enjoyable book. Most paranormal romance authors write about vampires, shapeshifters, werewolves, ghosts, reincarnation, or time-travel. The Djinni or genie seems to be overlooked. I'm not aware of many stories using a genie as the hero. Ms. McKeever makes up for this in this fast-paced, exciting tale of a vengeance driven man and a willful, independent woman who must overcome cultural differences to be together. The reader can feel the tension and magic between Kane and Therese, as they battle to overcome the obstacles in their path. Be sure to check out this unique, interesting, and magical tale. I don't think you'll be disappointed.	2002-09-14
US	34844779	R1GXPDDDFTBR9B	084395048X	315047773	Lair of the Lion	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Timeless Tales Review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin  [full review on our website]<br />Isabella Vernaducci only wishes to free her beloved brother, her only family. She knows her only hope rests with the elusive Don Nicolai DeMarco, a lethal Don feared by those living outside his palazzo. Braving the snow-covered pass to the palazzo, Isabella feels the menacing force stalking her from the moment she sets foot inside the Don's territory. Had she known the evil awaiting her in the palazzo, she might have thought twice about attempting it . . . no, that's not true. She would do anything to save her brother, whose sentence is death without the Don's intervention.<br />Don DeMarco knows what fate will befall any woman he chooses to take as a wife. An ancient curse has followed his family through many generations and, having witnessed its effects first hand, he is determined to not follow in his father's footsteps. Knowing that Isabella will be allowed to travel the pass, unlike so many others, Nicolai knows that she is the woman he must marry. He makes that his condition for saving her brother. His only thought, though, is to prevent himself from caring for her. But Isabella inserts herself into his home and his heart all too quickly, and he knows his love for her only seals her fate.<BR> <BR>With evil all around them and the attempts on Isabella's life growing in number, Nicolai is desperate to save this woman he has grown to love from the curse that has haunted him since childhood. He knows that by loving her he will betray her to her death, and that would cost him not only her life, but his eternal soul as well. Isabella, on the other hand, wants to chase the shadows from this man who is both feared and loved by his people, as he is by her. She must convince one and all that the Don is not the beast they think he is. <br />This wonderfully magical world is filled with dark and forbidding places where love truly conquers all. Shape-shifting stories have always fascinated me. The challenge ismaking the unbelievable believable. The romance woven into this story is superbly done, and is intricately woven therein, making the tale incomplete without it. This is a very sound work and one I believe the reader will enjoy time and time again. Written in the same tone as her first gothic 'The Scarletti Curse', Ms Feehan creates yet another book dominated by seductive, tormented men and the women determined to save them.	2002-09-14
US	34844779	R9RHCM204E5TP	0970716907	732147203	The Empress' New Clothes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Timeless Tales review:	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin [full review on our website]<br />Welcome to Planet Tryston, Trek Mi Q'an Galaxy, Seventh Dimension where the senses rule and sexual pleasure is sought above all else. A place where men are giants and women are the objects of their desire. A place where women are cherished and protected above all else, and live only to please their men. Oh, I forgot to mention. They also parade around in public more than half naked and make love passionately and often!<br />Zor Q'an Tal is High King of Tryston and Emperor of Trek Mi Q'an galaxy. A powerful man both in position and stature and his quest is simple: Find his Sacred Mate, the woman he would be bound to for all his long years, becoming the only woman he would ever be intimate with again. That in itself is really something since the man has somewhere around six hundred women at his beck and call just waiting to pleasure him. Once he has his Sacred Mate, all would be well in his life and he would be contented. Well, that is unless she happens to be a human woman from present day Earth.<BR> <BR>Kyra Summers is a tax accountant who only wants to find peace of mind after her beloved sister's disappearance. Fire haired and fair skinned, this beauty is about to be whisked away by a seven-feet-four-inch almost four hundred-pound barbarian who just happens to be the most handsome man she has ever seen! Needless to say, she is less enthusiastic to find out that clothing and modesty as she knows them are about to be redefined in a BIG way. Not only does she find herself wed to this intensely sexual specimen, but she is also thrust into a world where eroticism is a way of life.<BR> <BR>OH MY! What a story! I was totally blown away by the sheer imagination of each sexual situation! Not only is this work highly sensual and intensely erotic, but hysterical as well! Ms. Black has created a wonderful set of characters and a beautiful setting for them. This book is Romantica at its best and a must read for thelover of erotic fiction! My compliments to Jaid Black for such a wonderful work of art!	2002-09-14
US	34844779	R100HUG3W7XURD	1591090636	155237926	Sci-rotica Book 2 in the Extasy series	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin  [full review on our website]<br />Marese is a brilliant scholar whose only goal in life is to be accepted into a remote Academy where millions aspire to enter, but only a few are allowed. What she does not know is that all is not what it seems, and sex always has a means to an end.<br />Nona and Nadya are sisters who are trying only to survive a cruel, darkened futuristic Earth. Enslaved within the sex trade, Nadya has embraced her life while Nona is repulsed by it, even as her body accepts it. Her only hope for the life she has always dreamed of is to escape Earth and make her own way.<br />Conformity is a must. Sexual preference is controlled in mind and body. Problem is, sometimes the treatment can be the problem. Dayla has a membership and the treatment she receives is anything but conventional.<br />Nikki lives by putting her body on display. But the day to day routine isn't enough for her, until she unexpectedly meets two men who seem like strangers but are alarmingly familiar. Could she have at last found all she has been looking for? Has her life finally changed?<br />From the steamy jungles of distant planets to the dark alleys of a futuristic Earth, sensual beings explore new realms of sensuality. This collection of short stories encompasses many different aspects of the Science Fiction genre and entwines it with erotica. These are but a few of the fantastical tales the reader will find in this sensual thriller. These stories contain graphic imagery and are not for the sensitive reader.	2002-09-14
US	34844779	R34ZP5O1AQJRGZ	1553165497	501379730	Death Benefits	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeless Tales review	By TT reviewer Amy L. Turpin [full review on our website]<br />There is something sinister going on, and Michelle (Mici) Smith intends to get to the bottom of it! When approached by the granddaughter of a long time client, the successful lawyer turns to forensic pathologist, Rob Craig; a person she believes can confirm or deny the woman's belief that her grandmother's death was not from a heart attack. Mici has no idea how right this woman is! Not only did Elinor Grace not die from a heart attack, it looks like she may have been murdered.<br />Together, Mici and Rob begin to piece together bits and pieces of what looks like a money making scam straight from hell. The action heats up after Mici's apartment is broken in to, and she realizes that the prowler is not interested in anything in her home but her. He wants her dead, and he wants to be the one to carry out her sentence. Following one disturbing lead after another, the tenacious twosome act on a lead given by a mysterious caller and wind up at a perverse sex club called 'The Dungeon' and make two startling discoveries in the aftermath: one-their killer is more determined to make Mici suffer than they first realized, and two-somewhere along the way, they have fallen in love.<br />With a maniac on their tail and more than one murder to solve, Rob must use his medical and forensic knowledge to stop the brutal murders and keep Mici safe from a sadistic man with homicidal intentions. Rob knows he is he running out of time, but worse, he knows who the killers is! When he goes to Mici to impart his startling discovery, he finds her note explaining that she has gone to check out a hunch. Problem is, she's headed straight into the path of a killer! The only real question is: Will Rob be in time to save the woman he loves?<br />This tale of intrigue is catching from the first chapter, and continues to build in substance through the very end. Some of the scenes from 'The Dungeon' sent chills down my spine and I can honestly say the details were an astonishingly graphic and painful read, in a horrific kind of way. Over all, this book is a very worthy effort by the author, and I look forward to reading more of her work in the future.	2002-09-14
