US	34855630	R1L9TON193L5OY	0399151079	804105086	The Cat Who Talked Turkey	Books	1	9	10	N	N	What happened?	I think the title of my review sums up my feelings fairly well.  I loved the first few &quot;Cat Who ...&quot; stories, enjoyed most of the later ones, but this book just left me scratching my head.  <BR>Firstly, this was 180 pages, with really big type.  Not that I have a problem with big type, but in this case it meant that the story was barely breaking a hundred pages of a normal paperback-book sized book.  And of those, there was so little of the actual story!  This wasn't a murder mystery, this was &quot;a day in the life of a man who owns two cats and lives in a barn in the middle of nowhere&quot;.  Qwill writes a little, feeds the cats, gossips, feeds the cats, hears about a murder but pays very little attention, goes on a date, gives the cats a treat, and so on, and so on ....<BR>It was unbelievably dull.  <BR>There was no character development at all!  Nothing interesting ever happened, the so-called 'storyline' was painfully slow, and I found myself really not caring.  What happened to the Qwill we all knew and loved?  The one whos mustache would bristle at the sign of foul play, the Qwill that investigated mysterious cases and challenging murders?  The interesting Qwill!  He's vanished, and in his place, we have a sad, boring man, who is not at all interesting to follow around, and who's contribution to solving the murder ON HIS PROPERTY was, what---  puzzlement?  <BR>I'm dreadfully, DREADFULLY disappointed.<BR>If you've read the whole &quot;Cat Who ...&quot; series, then my feeling is that you can skip this one; you won't have missed anything, I promise.  If this was to be your first &quot;Cat Who ...&quot;, I really suggest you put this one back, and try something closer to the beginning; you will enjoy it far more, I can assure you.	2004-03-25
US	34855630	RTVW2YB5YOKWX	0380979004	959304293	Acorna's Triumph: The Further Adventures of the Unicorn Girl	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Abrupt, choppy, and in the end . . .	The one word I find that comes to mind to describe this book is, unsatisfying.  I've loved the Acorna books since the very beginning, but I've found that the last few were disappointing, and Acorna's Triumph was no exception.<BR>The story was light, and missing the detail and emotion that I'd grown to expect from the Acorna series.  The storyline itself was so flighty, jumping around from one time to another with no purpose, but rather with the randomness of a bad dream.  The ability to move from time to time so easily cheapened all of the struggles that the characters had gone through before.<BR>And was it just me, or were there some strange gaps in the story?  <BR>Okay, here I'm going to mention a few things that may spoil the story for those who haven't read it yet.  Sorry, but I feel I must.<BR>The fact that characters such as Aari's brother, and Acorna's parents even! were brought back in with such casual disregard for how their deaths had shaped the story up to that point was shocking to me.  That, and other events that had no point but bringing in a few seemingly random characters to be used for one transparent purpose or another, made it feel like the Authors were trying up loose ends, and neatening everything up for a fairy-tale happy ending.  And the reason that was so disappointing to me was that the Acorna series had never been a run-of-the-mill fairy tale, where everything is always perfect.  <BR>And now, the thing that bothered me the most.  Throughout the whole series, Acorna has always been in charge of her own destiny.  But suddenly, there is an unseen manipulater behind the scenes, making everything just the way he wants it. <BR>It just seems to me that maybe the series was simply running out of steam, to use so many obvious shortcuts to bring things to a happy conclusion.  <BR>But you'll notice at the top, I gave it three stars.  And that's because, in spite of everything, I still love Acorna, her people, and her world.  <BR>Plus, I have to admit,sometimes I'm a sucker for a happy ending.  Even if it's missing some of the trials and triumph that I'd enjoyed, and respected, in the books preceading it, there's still something about Acorna' Triumph that makes you smile.	2004-03-14
US	34855630	R3IBM1FY5ADKBI	0374505845	987266683	Wise Blood: A Novel	Books	1	26	77	N	N	I just couldn't relate	Let me start by saying that I read this book because O'Connor was on a list of authors that a friend of mine felt I had to read.  Not that my feelings would have been any different if I had simply picked this up in a library and decided to give it a try.  <BR>     I'll start by being painfully blunt.  I really, truly hated this book.  And I'm not a person to say that I hate a book lightly.  As a matter of fact, I think this is the only book I've ever felt that I really hated.  When I finished the last page, I didn't just want to never see it again, I wanted to burn it.  <BR>That said, I'll explain.<BR>     I didn't understand the characters at all.  Not even once, not even a little.  Nothing that any of them ever did made sense to me.  I couldn't fathom their motivations, or understand why they would choose the way they did.  <BR>     Not only that, but I really didn't like them either.  Now, that's not enough to make me dislike a book.  I can live with the fact that a book can be good with characters that I truly don't like.  But in this case I think it was a failing of the author to make the character believable.  They barely even seemed human.  <BR>     The plot was as much a mystery.  All I'll say about it is, I didn't understand, and I'm fairly certain that I never will.  <BR>      And the ending!  I can't stand a book that drops a character without so much as a 'see you soon'.  Suddenly, it seemed that all the other people disappeared.  And I suppose from Haze's perspective, they had, but that doesn't mean that we should suffer for it!  <BR>     I found the ending profoundly disturbing.  The last few pages were horrid.  I can't understand an author who could treat her characters with such callous disregard!  Stories do not always have a happy ending, or an end that makes sense, but this book had neither for no apparent reason!  <BR>     And to put the end of a characters life that we've been (unwillingly, on my part) following for the whole book as almost an afterthought in the middle of a paragraph!  I thought it was apalling.  This person may not have been important in the big picture, but for some reason he was supposed to be important to us.  To put an end to him like that was just disgusting.  <BR>     So, to sum up, I would not read this book again without a gun to my head, and I regret ever having picked it up.  Has it changed me at all?  Yes, I suppose it has.  I will never blindly assume that all books have at least one good thing about them again.  I will never assume that just because I love to read I will be able to understand at least one facet of a character.<BR>      And if this sounds melodramatic, or shallow, that's fine.  This book did affect me profoundly, but for what it lacked rather than what it had.  And if that is what the author was going for . . . well, I think I'm much happier thinking that it was all some sort of terrible mistake.	2003-10-27
US	34855630	R1Y2JO64T6O5JH	0575070641	913848834	Stone (GollanczF.)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Intriguing	Stone was one of the more interesting books that I have read this year.  The story was just so different, I was hooked on page one.  I mean, how many books have you read in the form of letters written to a stone?  <BR>   One of the things I like most was that as the story unfolded, we all knew that he had broken out of that prison he was describing, and we knew that he was recaptured at some point.  What we didn't know was, had he succeded in his mission?  And why was he in prison in the first place?  And who hired him to destroy the population of an entire planet?<BR>The first person perspective let us get almost disturbingly close to a very odd man, who doesn't seem to understand quite what he's doing even while he's in the proccess of actually DOING it.  <BR>The writing style in Stone is slightly skewed, and definitly unique.  I have a feeling that you'll probably either like this book, or stop reading after the first few pages.  <BR>And as for the characters.... Well, there is only one real character.  There are other people who interact briefly with Ae, even get to know him a little, or travel with him, but there really is only one character in this book, throughout the whole story.  Well, two if you count the stone.<BR>All in all, I would recomend this book to anyone who enjoys an offbeat, odd book, whether a science fiction reader, or fantasy lover, or perhaps even  a mystery fan as well.  After all, trying to figure out who wished an entire planet dead is certainly quite a mystery.	2003-07-10
US	34855630	RASXC7PWJNZED	0743213661	563897796	Have You Seen Dawn?	Books	1	11	14	N	N	Could I have been reading a different book?	I've read the other reviews of this book, and I must say, I'm puzzled.  <BR>I honestly didn't like this book.  But that's not the reason I gave it 1 star.  I gave it 1 because not only didn't I like it, it was, overall, not very good at all.<BR>I'll start by saying I thought the premise was good.  It had the potential to be a great short story.  Unfortunately, Saylor chose to stretch it to book length.  This book could have easily been condenced into 5o pages, and still been a little too long.<BR>All right, that was my first problem.  The second was, the story was sadly transparent.  Anyone who didn't know who the killer was by the time we found Dawn wasn't actually paying attention.  <BR>The writing style seemed....how should I put this....Well, like something you would expect from a 16 year old.  <BR>The characters were lacking in everything from personality, to depth, to intrest, and more.  Rue was agravating, and as for the others....Let's just say, in a few weeks, I will have forgotten that they even existed.  <BR>The plot development was sad.  By then end of the book I was so thankful that the story was over that I was actually glad that this book was only 200-something pages long.  <BR>Now, this sounds like a negative review, right?  Well, it is.  This is probably one of the worst books I've read in a long time.  But!  Don't let that stop you from reading it!  It seems like I'm the only one who thought this book wasn't worth the paper it was printed on.  <BR>Maybe I found the simplicity of the story pointless, instead of interesting.  Or... well, you'll just have to read it for yourself.  <BR>So, in closing, Have you seen Dawn was not my kind of book.  And, I'm assuming that this review will generate many negative responses.  But, don't just vote aginst it because you don't like what I'm saying, all right?  Try and look at it objectively, and then if you feel that this was not worth the time it took to read it, I understand.	2003-04-01
US	34855630	RDRSHYSP54KNM	0380978997	195350751	Acorna's Rebels	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Not bad, but lacking	Acorna's rebels left me feeling disappointed.  I really enjoyed the first couple Acorna books, but the last few haven't been as great.  <BR>To be honest, by the time I got this one, I had nearly forgotten all that happened in the last two books before.  It took me a few chapters to remember where we had left off.<BR>Okay, my main problem was the storyline became very shallow.  All the difficulties and emergencies had easy solutions, no one had any trouble with finding them or carring them out.  <br />Also, where's Aari?  And what is happening with the others that we've been following for books now?  We spent the entire time with Acorna, with no word whatsoever on anything else that's happening.  In the beginning Acorna is working on rebuilding her planet, but that is quickly pushed aside in the story, and not returned to.  Surely the work would be at least an interesting sidenote?<BR>In the end, everything just seemed too pat, too easy.  I won't spoil the ending, but it left me hanging too much for me to have enjoyed it.<BR>So, to be fair, there's nothing badly wrong with this book, as it stands by itself.  As a novel, alone, I think it deserved 3 stars.  It's only when you compare this book to earlier ones from the series that you realize that, although it's good, the first few were far, far better.	2003-02-07
US	34855630	R202NE641WN79G	0515087122	307023147	The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A fast, fun read	The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern caught my attention first, over many others in this series, because of the title.  I couldn't figure out what it could possibly mean, and that intrigued me.<BR>I finished this book in one sitting, in only a couple hours, and immediately began to search for the next in line.  <BR>This was a very good book; moving along at a pace that kept you interested in the story.  The characters had a certain, less-than-deeply-developed charm, and Koko was a wonderful example of the kings of the animal kingdom, the cat.<BR>I loved getting a look into the newspaper world, and into the world of interior design, all  set many years before I was even born.  And, although I did find myself chuckling a few times at the world created in the Cat Who mysteries, I thoroughly enjoyed my visit.<BR>There were only a few things I had trouble with.  One, some characters that were introduced briefly in the beginning, ones that turned out to be important later, well, by the time we got back to them I couldn't remember anything about them.  Basically, I found the characters that did not repeat from book to book to be very forgetable, and often times dull.<BR>Two, the plot was rather predictable.  Maybe it was just me, but I didn't have any trouble piecing together this mystery.<BR>And three, this book was too short!  I was so disappointed when I finished it in under two hours.  But, there are many more in the series, and I'm sure that I will enjoy them all as much as I enjoyed this one.  <BR>So, I would definitly recommend this one as a quick, fun read.	2003-02-07
US	34855630	R3K0U8QNVEO7G	0345448987	737112991	Regina's Song	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Hmm, I seem to be right in the middle...	I've read the other reviews of this book, and for the most part they fall into two groups. Those who loved this book, and those who thought it was a waste of time. <BR>I find myself right in the middle on this one. The book had many obvious problems, and Twink was so darn cute most of the time that you could just scream, but it had a few redeeming qualities as well.<BR>The characters were not very well developed, but they were at least slightly interesting, even if they never seemed quite like real people. <BR>The premise was good, I thought, with one murdered twin and no way to tell which one. Much more really should have been done with it, but if you gloss over the obvious answers to most of the questions asked, and it does take a bit of glossing, you can get into the story at least a little.<BR>My main problem was really how predictable the book was. Who didn't know the answer to most of the mysteries, at the very least, before the end? <BR>And I wasn't satisfied with the end either. I won't spoil it for those who haven't read it, but it really wasn't all it could have been. <BR>So, it seems to me that diehard Eddings fans will either love it or hate it. And as for others...well, I don't think I would recommend this one.	2002-11-26
US	34855630	R3A7C64QPF9W7S	006447335X	598391900	Year of the Griffin (Derkholm)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Definitely as good as the first	I really enjoyed this book.  Dark Lord was a change of pace for me; not what I usually read; but it hooked me.  So when I found out it had a sequel, it made my day.  <BR>Year of the Griffin is entertaining, funny, somewhat unpredictable, and just plain marvelous.  <BR>It was nice to get to know Elda, and her five classmates ensure that the beginning of school will be anything but normal.  <BR>The descriptions of their spellcasting were very funny, and I must admit to laughing outloud when Felim was encased in a beehive of books.  <BR>I would recommend this book highly to anyone who wants to finish a book with a smile on their face.	2002-11-26
US	34855630	R9LD3WVTC6H5S	0812568753	421022151	The Lesser Kindred	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good, but it seemed to be missing something	This, the sequel to Song in the Silence, was not quite as good as the first.  I know most people liked it just as well, and in most ways I would have to agree.<BR>The characters were as well written and diverse.  The writting style was just as wonderful, giving us a chance to look through the eyes of many of the different characters.  The tempo was good, even though it was a little slow at the beginning.<BR>The problems for me were with the story itself.  The solution to the problem of the lesser kindred seemed to easy, too much a chance discovery.  It didn't have quite the same flow as the first book, and to me it just wasn't as interesting.  <BR>Now, that's not to say this wasn't a good book.  It was very good, and well worth reading, but I just didn't enjoy it as much as the first.  But don't let me stop you from reading it.  Any fantasy lover should give this series a try.	2002-11-22
US	34855630	R3TCQRAH5INQTF	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It's over?	I can't tell you how disappointed I was when I finished this book and realized that the series was over.  It was engrossing, amazing, emotional, startling and facinating; everything a good story should be.  <BR>At the beginning of this book, I couldn't help but wonder where the story would head next, how everything would resolve.  It didn't take long at all before the book pulled me in to the point where I ceased to try and figure out how it would end, and just enjoyed getting there.   <BR>There was only one thing, really, about this book that I'm still not sure about.  And that would be the end.  After I had finished this book, I couldn't decided whether I liked the ending, or whether I was let down by it.  It was definitely not what I expected, and I think that has to be a good thing.  It's not too often that a book can really surprise you at the end.  <BR>I could go on about the characters and the story, but to really understand why this series was so good, I think you have to read it for yourself.  <BR>So, I would definitely recommend this book, and the rest of the series, to anyone who wants to read a rather different sort of fantsy.  And, I will certainly be reading them again soon.	2002-11-22
US	34855630	R20PO7J6M3BF84	0786928042	926952674	The Thousand Orcs (Forgotten Realms:  The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Drizzt is back!	I am of two minds on this book.  On the one hand, Drizzt Do'Urden, my favorite character ever, is back; alive and well.  His perils and trials are as potent as ever, and his scimitars as keen.  With his companions by his side, all seems right with the world.<BR>But deep in the mountains the orcs have formed an alliance with the frost giants, spurred on by the wicked minds of several drow, and disaster awaits for those who stumble upon them unknowingly.<BR>As Drizzt and his friends fall deeper into shadows, it looks as though this time they may not all make it out alive.<BR>I loved the characters, as always, and I'm glad that we have a chance to revisit the bouldershoulder brothers. <BR>I was a little surprised at the fact that Drizzt was still agonizing over Ellifain.  I understand why he feels a bit responsilbe, even though he's not, but it seems like he's taking it just a little to far to me.<BR>The time spent in Mirabar was a little tedious, and could have been shortened, but on the whole, I think this book was fairly well balanced.  <BR>But back at the beginning, I said I was of two minds.  Well, I liked this book, but I'm not sure that all of my feelings for it came from this book itself.  I think a lot of the reason I liked this book so much was because I had read the books before it.  If this was my first meeting with Drizzt and the others.... I'm not sure that I would have really cared as much.  <BR>This book was definitely not as strong as the Icewind Dale trilogy, or the Dark Elf trilogy, or the Legacy of the Drow either.  But, it was much better than the last four books, so I am hopeful for the next 2.<BR>So, all in all, this book was pretty good, and I'm hoping Salvatore can pick up where he left off here, take the story, and run with it.<BR>Welcome back Drizzt!	2002-10-30
US	34855630	R2LFEI4S6LEH5M	0756400023	882477161	Assassin Fantastic	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A varied look at the assassin	Assassin's are extremely difficult characters to write. If you do it wrong, the assassin becomes a monster that no one can relate to. Or becomes self-rightous and hypocritical. <BR>In this book there are 15 stories of assassins who are unique characters unto themselves, and no where near typical.<BR>My favorites were Death Rites, about the brother sister team of Vree and Bannon, assassins for the empire. Also Coin of the Realm, which gave a very interesting twist, and Darkness Comes Together, about an assassin who is nearly as dangerous to his employer as his mark.<BR>Echos was a good story to me, but then I have read the other books featuring Kallandras. For thoses who haven't, it may just be a little confusing.<BR>I didn't care much for He, or for History and Economics or Dying By Inches. They seemed a little stilted, and not quite as smoothly flowing as some of the others.<BR>But all in all, this was a good book, especially if you enjoy tales of darkness and deception, and of the ever mysterous assassin.<BR>All assassin lovers should give this book a try.	2002-10-29
US	34855630	R352BELJ5IE7VS	0553573411	675959125	Royal Assassin (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Even better than the first!	Royal Assassin caught my attention from the very beginning, and I couldn't put it down until I'd finished.<BR>There is just something about this book.  I can't quite figure out what it is though.<BR>It could be that the characters have flaws and virtues, that they act and think like real people.  You understand what motivates them, and you feel a certain empathy towards them, even the villians.  And that, I believe, is the true test of a book.  That the characters, even the bad guys, are seen as real people.<BR>Or, maybe it's the first-person perspective.  Robin Hobb has the unique gift of writing a story from Fitz's point of veiw, without letting us get so close that we can't see around him.  You live the story through him, but you never lose sight of the rest of the world around him.<BR>Or perhaps it's just that this story seems to touch something inside you.  You live this difficult time right along with the rest of the characters.<BR>This book takes Fitz and the rest so far from where they started that you might not recognize them by the end.  <BR>So, to sum up, read this book!  You will not regret it!	2002-10-29
US	34855630	RA1L7UF6HDX05	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A story that feels real	I am a very big fantasy reader, and assassins are one of my favorite characters to read about. That said, this book is not your average, predictible fantasy, and not about a typical assassin.<BR>Fitz was just such a real character.  He had a real personality, and actually feelings.  He reacted to situations in a way that eveyone can relate to, and his problems, while certainly not normal, can translate well into everyday lives.  He, and all of the characters, were true.  They were just like real people, and that's one of the things that makes this book unique.<BR>Another thing that I enjoyed was the writing style.  Mostly, when you read a book from the first-person perspective, you feel part of the story, sometimes even too close to really see clearly.  With the Farseer books, that's not the case.  There's almost a feeling of detachment, of floating over the story as it happens, while being part of it at the same time.  I have no idea how Robin Hobb managed this, but I'm very glad it worked that way.  It's almost spellbinding.<BR>The story was well thought out, and not clear cut, like some books.  There was no; the good guys win, the bad guys go away; sense.  The plot unfolded in a more true-to-life way, letting you really get into the story more.<BR>The best thing about this book is the way you just can't put it down.<BR>All in all, a truly different, likable, enthralling book.  I am eager to read the next.	2002-10-29
US	34855630	R37C8RIWLSPROB	0446605468	588826816	The Neutronium Alchemist: Part II - Conflict	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A galaxy-wide vision of incredible imagination	This series is more far-reaching than almost any I have read before.  The sheer scope is awe inspiring; it's absoluely amazing how complex a world Peter Hamilton has created here.<BR>In this, the 4th book, some old characters, like Quinn Dexter, Ione, the Lord of Ruin, Joshua Calvert and many, many more, are revisited, and new characters introduced.  <BR>New twists are revealed and older plot threads wind tighter as this story progresses.  <BR>Centering around the mysterious Alchemist, this book continues the fight against the posessed and the struggle to overcome the terrifying revelation about the nature of the Beyond.  What is the Alchemist?  What can it really do?  Is it truly capable of destroying an entire world?  I know I was terribly curious.  <BR>As this book goes on, more and more worlds are falling to the posessers, and Al Capone's empire is growing fast.  Several worlds are already lost beyond retrieving, pulled out of our universe entirely.  Is there really a way to stop the dead from returning?  Especially when all who live in the Confederation will eventually join them?  <BR>It's facinating to me how Hamilton has shown the different ways people are reacting to this crisis.  How different people are dealing with this revelation.<BR>I was enthralled yet again by this fantastic story.  The way this series is put together is truly beyond belief.  The plot is engaging and it really makes you think hard about the nature of our existence.<BR>But I'm not saying that this is the kind of book that will make you change your life.  No, it's simply a wonderfully imaginative story, bringing the whole galaxy into focus in a masterfully told tale.  The places you get to explore, and the people you meet will make you ready for more, I promise.<BR>One last thing.  Don't be intimidated by this book's size.  I actually finished it in one day, it was that hard to put down.<BR>I can't wait to read the next.	2002-10-24
US	34855630	RKOINTXRH39VH	0064473368	150093381	Dark Lord of Derkholm	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Three cheers for the Dark Lord!	I read this book on a recomendation from a friend.  When I saw that it was marked young adult I was a little skeptical, as I haven't read young adult books in a long while now, but I read it anyway.<BR>I must say, I was very plesantly surprised.  The reading is easy, and light, but tremendous fun.  I enjoyed all the characters, from the hapless Dark Lord Derk, to his rebelious son Blade, and all of his griffin sons and daughters. <BR>As you follow them through one disaster after another, watching them cope with insane, incredibly funny trials, you really get to know the whole family, and love them as well.<BR>This book throws a twist on every seeming straight-forward situation of good verses evil, and gives us a look at what happens when there are more than two sides to the story.<BR>The plot was interesting without being over-complicated, and the action was fast-paced enough for readers of any age.  <BR>The writing was funny, and touching, and entertaining in every way.  And where else can you find a herd of carnivorous sheep,  a flock of sarcastic geese, friendly cows, winged horses, flying pigs, and who knows what else, all in the same place?  <BR>This was just an all-around good book, and I thoroughly enjoyed every page.<BR>I recomend it to readers of all ages.	2002-10-23
US	34855630	R1PFN907CQGZ7P	0441545238	213316694	A Multitude Of Monsters (The Exploits of Ebenezum, Bk. 2)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	I don't know about you, but I'm all for Brownie Power!	This book was about as good as the first.  Mainly the same characters, and, well, the same plot, because they have not yet reached the city of a thousand delights.<BR>The one this that I really enjoyed about this book was Tap, the Brownie.  I don't know why, but I loved that little guy.  To me, he and the other Brownies were the best part of this series.  <BR>There were some funny moments, such as when the enchanted shoe took the floor at the monsters convention, but overall it was just okay.<BR>I'm still hoping that the next book will have a bit more depth, and maybe a little more development in the characters.<BR>And, as the city of delights seems to have disappeared, I think I can guess what the plot of the next novel will be.  So, I hope that they come up with an interesting way to rescue the city from the foul clutches of the Netherhells.<BR>So far, this series is not a favorite of mine (I like my humorous fantasy to be funnier than I found these to be) but I have hopes for the last book.  It promises to be very....interesting.	2002-10-18
US	34855630	R1517ST0K7F0B	0441516629	237608948	A Malady of Magicks	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Could I have been reading a different book?	Once again, I have to wonder what book I was reading.  It couldn't possibly be this book, with glowing reviews of how funny it was.  <BR>Now, don't get me wrong; this book was funny.  In a few places, and at certain moments, sure.  But it wasn't great humor, or, to me, even very good humor.  When I was 12, I'm sure I would have found this book wonderfully funny.  But I think I've passed the point where I can overlook all of the things about this book that irked me.  Even in a comedy, I really prefer to have my characters and plots thought out better.<BR>Good idea, the whole story, but there was nothing to this book at all.  I know there's such a thing as light humorous fantasy, but this was a little much, even for me.  <BR>The characters are bare bones in development, and the plot just seems to go in circles.  The humor has it's moments; unfortunately, they're few, and far between.<BR>All in all, I much prefer, say, the Myth series, or Phule's Company.  <BR>I'll probably finish the series, just to see how it turns out, but I have to say, I'm not enjoying it all that much.<BR>And, to those who love this book, I'm sorry.  I just don't see it.	2002-10-16
US	34855630	R3EIX6IWAXQPO4	0345423402	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very entertaining	I read the second book, A Caress of Twilight, before this one, which gave it an interesting feel. I already knew where it was going, but I had no idea really of how it got there. So it gave this book an interesting twist.<BR>I found that the plot was smooth, and quickly flowing, and it kept me interested and eager to find out what happened next. I knew where the story was heading, but I was pleasantly surprised at how inventive the author was in getting it there. Even having read the sequel, I was still thrilled by the unexpected happenings.<BR>The characters were interesting; a study in diverse personalities. Merry, our Unseelie Sidhe princess, is a vivid, delightfully wicked and thoroughly captivating female, with an energy that carries the book throughout. <BR>The male Fey, Sidhe and others, that fill this book are all so different, it's hard to pick a favorite. Well, maybe not that hard. Definitely Darkness,  without a doubt, followed by Killing Frost.<BR>The story was wonderful, showing a vision of a whole realm that facinates me. <BR>It may not be classic fantasy, but I enjoyed it anyway. And I am greatly looking forward to another.	2002-10-10
US	34855630	R163QZ1OEV3AQY	0312869045	58153037	Up In a Heaval (Xanth, No. 26)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Typical modern Xanth	Up in a Heaval is as good as the last few Xanth books.  In my opinion, that means not really that good.<BR>I have been reading Xanth for years, and I loved the earlier books.  The more recent ones though...I haven't been as fond of.  <BR>Mainly, the story and the characters seemed shallow.  The plot was messy, and hurried, and just not very interesting.  And what was the point behind the letters in the first place?  We never find out who this woman was, or how she's solved any of her problems.  In my mind, this is one major loose end that is left hanging.  <BR>As always, there are puns, and odd talents, and strange creatures and happenings, but they appear seemingly at random, and with no connection to the story or the characters.  <BR>The Demons are back in this book, and I, for one, am getting a little tired of them.  Thought we'd all seen the last of Fornax?  Think again.  <BR>The plots involving the Demons are all the same.  Demons are contesting, Xanth wins out in the end.  Predictable in the extreme.<BR>The story is very rushed, and nothing connects the way it should.  It has a totally random quality that I don't like.  Sure, Xanth is a little crazy, and unpredictable, but this is just silly and pointless.<BR>All in all, if you liked the last few Xanth books, you should like this one as well, but if you are a fan of earlier Xanth...Well, this book won't have much appeal.	2002-10-09
US	34855630	RI154ZR8JAVN	0812550447	196867782	Song In The Silence: The Tale of Lanen Kaelar (Tales of Kolmar)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dragons, adventure, what more could you ask for?	This first volume in the tale of Lanen Kaelar was absolutely wonderful!  <BR>Lanen is a strong female character, with a mind and will of her own.  She is sensible, but not afraid to follow her dreams.  From the very beginning your sympathy goes out to her, as her life has not been that good so far, and you can understand her perfectly.  <BR>As she begins her adventure, you can almost feel her relief and excitement.  <BR>Once she reaches the isle, and meets her very first dragon, things get even much more interesting.  <BR>I loved Akor as a character!  So different from us, and yet so similar as well.  And what better color for this incredible dragon than silver? (my favorite for a dragon)<BR>The writing style was a little unusual, but I enjoyed it.  The different perspectives were an interesting addition, and I, for one, did not mind the switches at all.<BR>And the way the Dragons express their emotions with different Attitudes was a great twist on the average dragon tale.<BR>All in all, these are not your typical dragons, and this is not your typical fantasy adventure.  It was a moving story, with a wonderful cast of characters.  <BR>It shouldn't be long at all before we list Kerner up there with the great fantasy authors of our time.<BR>I'm eager to read the next.  May it be as good as the first!	2002-10-08
US	34855630	R1XG8P5GKQBBVW	0743435419	762072434	The Philosophical Strangler (Joe's World)	Books	2	14	17	N	N	I seem to have a different opinion on this one.......	Well, looking at the other reviews of this book, I can't help but feel I must have been reading a completely different book altogether.  <BR>I really, really did not like this book.  At all.  As a matter of fact, this is the first book in many years that I have seriously considered stopping in the middle of, and not finishing.  I finished it, but I really didn't see any improvement.<BR>That said, I will explain.<BR>It was interesting, and different, having the main characters be.... well, a strangler, and his manager.  It had a lot of promise, but right from the start this book just rubbed me the wrong way.  I have nothing against stranglers, or their managers, but....Well, I found myself with an intense dislike of these characters from the beginning.  <BR>The first-person writting style doesn't bother me at all, but in this case I just really, REALLY didn't want to be in this guy's head.  <BR>I couldn't see what the various parts of the story had to do with any of the others, and my frustration was getting the best of me.<BR>The overall book was.... not good.  I was disappointed, and annoyed that I had actually spent my time on this.<BR>In this case though, this is only my opinion.  The reason I went with 2 stars, as opposed to 1, or none if I could, was because most of my problems with this book were personal.  I really disliked the plot, and the characters, and the story was just dull.  So, 2 stars for the book based on the elements that were good about it.  <BR>I find it strange, because I like Eric Flint.<BR>Sorry, but this one I will not be reading again, nor it's sequels, if there are any.	2002-10-08
US	34855630	R3BQT5O0Z7JA0I	0345435729	798168467	Morgawr (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 3)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Unmoving, and rather disappointing	This is the third book in the series, and I was really hoping for more out of it.<BR>I don't want to mortally offened the diehard Shannara fans, but the the best way I can describe this book, I suppose, is .... bland. It was just there. No gripping moments, no memorable charaters or scenes, nothing to pull you in. <BR>This is coming, I should note, from a devoted Shannara fan. I've read all the Shannara book, most more than once. So I was ready to love this book the second I heard about it. Not that I had high expectations, just hopes, I guess.<BR>But, it was very disappointing. There was no depth, no surprises. It was extremely predictable, and almost dull.<BR>I'm not recommending against this book if you've read the first 2, but if this was to be your introduction into Shannara I think you should start with another. I would start at the beginning with the Sword and work from there.<BR>So, all in all, this was just not up to the standards of the rest of the Shannara books.	2002-10-04
US	34855630	R2QT49N5S3OKDM	0446605166	465927379	The Reality Dysfunction: Expansion - Part II (Part 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A walk through a universe beyond imagination	This was even better than the first.  The plot is more solid, more connected, and you begin to get a feeling for what the story is truely about.  <BR>The scope of this book was astonishing.  You literaly span the galaxy, visiting places and meeting people so far beyond your wildest dreams..... It's incredible.<BR>The characters begin to take a more concrete shape, forming more solid personalities and becoming more real.  As this book unfolds, the mysteries left by the first start to make more sense, becoming a part of the story that fits tightly and perfectly.<BR>The writting is just wonderful.  It pulls you in, making you feel like you just have to know what happens next.  You tell yourself that after you find out you'll stop, and then another unbelievable surprise hits you and you know it's hopeless.  I finished this book in even less time then it took me to finish the first.  I just couldn't put it down.<BR>This book is an amazing epic all on it's own!<BR>And just think!  There are still more left to read!  <BR>The only thing I'm sorry about is that I didn't discover this series sooner!  <BR>One of the thing I like best is how unpredictable the story is.  You never know what's next, or how it will happen.  I just can't wait to find out!<BR>A truely incredible story, and well worth reading.  More than once!	2002-10-03
US	34855630	RUVO92L63DYSL	0446605158	184074149	The Reality Dysfunction: Emergence - Part I	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A universe-spanning epic of amazing detail!	This book was incredible!  There is no way that I could even begin to overview to plot, so I won't even try.<BR>You have to read this book to believe it.  Forget I said that, you just have to read it!  It's beyond vast, beyond amazing, just beyond!  Somehow, there is an entire universe in that one book alone.  <BR>I'll be honest now.  I wasn't sure I even liked this book until after I finished, (there was just so much to absorb at once!) but even then I knew it was 5 stars.  Even if you don't like it, you'll be awestruck at the sheer scope of this book.  <BR>Once you reach the middle of it, there's no way you can stop.  <BR>I'll admit that it takes a while for the threads of the plot to tie together, but with a tapestry of this scale, you've got to give it time.  Once they begin to form that amazing web, you're hooked.  <BR>And, it's true that not all of the characters are all that interesting, not at first, but with so many to read about, you don't really even notice.  <BR>What else can I say?  The writting style was engaging, the plot was complex and far-reaching, the characters amazingly varied and interesting, the story itself was fantasic.  And this is only the beginning!  <BR>I've heard it refered to as a space opera, and that's a fitting description indeed.  Only it's better and more than just that.  It's a combination of ideas and places that, when put all together, will blow you away.<BR>So, to sum this up, you have to read this book!  Only then can you really understand how utterly facinating it is.	2002-10-02
US	34855630	R1Q7PO6XN4OC9N	0441385540	367324940	Jhereg	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A very interesting assassin	Jhereg is the first book by Steven Brust that I have read.  <BR>Well, I knew nothing of this character before this book, and after reading it I find that I very much wish to find out more. <BR>Jhereg creates a refreshing new world, with interesting creatures and characters. The plot is convoluted, and very complicated, but somehow I like this book even better for that. Vlad gives a facinating insight into the mind of an assassin. It's so good to finally find an assassin character with a human, dare I say even normal, side. Well, as normal as it can be, I suppose.<BR>The other characters are so varied in type and personality that it gives you a realistic feeling when reading. You never know who, or what, is next, but it's oh so much fun to guess. <BR>Now, I'll admit that I was a little confused going into this, as I had never read this series before and there really isn't much of an explaination going into it, but it didn't take long at all before I figured out who, and what, everyone was.<BR>I really enjoyed the writting style, and I'm looking forward to checking out the next book. <BR>So, while I can't speak for those who've read Steven Brust before, if you haven't, I recommend it. Definitely worth your time.	2002-10-02
US	34855630	R6ZUQN1KNLA8A	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another, please!	Green Rider was a deceptively simple book, at first glance.  The plot of a young girl finding a dying messanger and agreeing to deliver this life-or-death missive to the king was basic, but filled with potential.  When I first saw it, I thought it could go either way.  Either there would be more to it than meets the eye...or not.<BR>But once the story begins, it pulls you right in.  You keep reading, just to find out what happens next, just until the next chapter. An hour later, and you're still reading.  <BR>Karigan is a likable character, and the villians are properly evil.  <BR>I'm sure we all are eagerly awaiting the sequel, to find out if the hoofbeats have invaded her dreams yet.  The lure of the Green Rider is strong...can Karigan hope to stay away?  Well, I certainly hope not.<BR>And, I am glad that this book did not end with her reaching the king.  The story is never finished when the message is delivered.  Especially when it could mean life or death for a king.  This way we get to see what happens after, and how the story really ends.<BR>Plus, I'm a sucker for a happy ending anyway.	2002-09-26
US	34855630	R27ES12NOW5Z6T	0812577698	169443831	The Nano Flower (Greg Mandel)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	It could have been great	Book 3 of this series, and I'm still reading.  But, even if there were more, I'm fairly certain I would have stopped here.<BR>The Nano Flower had great promise.  Interesting, if somewhat far-fetched, plot, and several threads running through to hold it all together.<BR>But by the end, I was shaking my head.  What happened?  <BR>The end was disappointing, and not really worth waiting for.  All the suspense about the alien, and when it finally arrived.... Well, it was just sad.  So much could have been done with all of the different parts of the end of this book.... But nothing was, really.  <BR>As it went along, the story got thinner and thinner.  The characters weren't bad, but more could have been done with them.<BR>And the 14, 15 year gap between this one and the last... My question is, why?  To show that the characters have grown, and evolved?  What's the point if you don't have any idea what happened to them during that time?  <BR>And judging by what I read, a few important things happened then that I would have liked explained.  I'll give one example.  Royan.  Last we saw of him, well, he was in bad shape.  Suddenly in this book, he's married to Julia, and has children, and has been missing for 8 months.  Granted, it's almost explained later, but not well.  I don't know about most people, but I was very curious as to how exactly Royan ended up where he is now.<BR>Basically, it was just disappointing to me all the way around.  <BR>It could have been great.....But it wasn't.	2002-09-26
US	34855630	R3NFXTZKH80BMH	0812555244	190976008	A Quantum Murder (Greg Mandel)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Better than Mindstar rising	Well, here we have the sequel to Mindstar Rising.  It has many of the same characters, bringing some old favorites back for a second book.  <BR>Overall, this book is 3 stars.  Some elements were better than others, obviously.  The characters were good, though Eleanor still seems to have no personallity whatsoever.  The plot was inplausible, at best, and hard to believe.  The writing style was still very interesting, and is, in fact, the only reason that I finished this book at all.<BR>A murder mystery set in future England, with not one but several odd twists.  Not good twists really, nor believable, but not too farfetched, if you have a very, very open mind.  (I think I'll leave it at that.)<BR>One of the best things about this book though was the fact that the author obviously took some pains to follow semi-known physics, and tried not to bend the laws of the universe too far.  Also, even though these things play a major part in the story, the aren't the dominating feature.  So, for those of you not interested in theoretical quantum physics, or cosmology, this book won't bore you to tears.<BR>All in all, it flowed (to me at least) better than Mindstar Rising, even if the storyline was a little thin in several places.<BR>I also found the discription of the inside of an insane seriel killer's mind quite interesting; it really makes you wonder.<BR>So, if you liked the first book, chances are that this one will appeal to you as well.	2002-09-24
US	34855630	R1EGDPYSBGWKBJ	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I'm afraid I'm going to offend a lot of people with this	Well, this is the first book in the series, and I actually enjoyed it.  The style was a little off, and it certainly could have been better, but I still liked it.<BR>It introduces a whole new world, with new characters and themes.  I liked many of the ideas, and the plot twists kept me reading.<BR>Now, the real problem for me was the sequels.  I read on, eagerly awaiting further information on Richard, wielder of the sword of truth, and Kahlan, the Mother Confesser and Zedd and so on.  I've read the whole series, though I can't figure out why.  So no one can say I didn't give it a fair chance.<BR>And my conclusion was.... Stop after the first book.  They just get worse from there.  Granted, that's only my feeling, so don't let me stop you, but I feel it very strongly.  <BR>The second book was a little worse than the first, and the third a little worse than the second.  <BR>So, while I liked this book, (liked it, not loved it) my advice is to stop with the one.	2002-09-21
US	34855630	R11Q27FZTCJT9D	067131839X	541218661	Pyramid Scheme	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I loved it	This was a marvelous book.  Funny, but with a plot as well.<BR>The characters are different, and very likable.  Plus, there're the interesting twists on more commonly known myths.  Obviously a lot of work had to go into writing this, and it was definitly worth it!<BR>Hopefully there will be a second book, although I can't see where the story could go from there, but that's the fun of it.  <BR>Very entertaining, and there were even a few parts that made me laugh out loud.<BR>You should pick this one up if you haven't already.   It is well worth your time.	2002-09-20
US	34855630	R11LHUODHS252R	0441023606	385885559	Another Fine Myth	Books	4	2	2	N	N	If you want to laugh, give this one a try	Well, what can I say?  This was a very funny book.  A little short, a bit light, but good.  <BR>Where else do you get to meet Imps, from Imper?  Deveels, (not devils) from Deva?  Pervects (not Perverts if you want to keep all of your limbs and organs in their proper location, as in attached to your body and all that) from Perv?  Klahds, (unfortunately, that would be us, or close to it) from Klah?  And of course Gnomes, from Zoorik? (don't ask me, I didn't write it)<BR>Skeeve's myth-adventures are wild, unpredictable, and funny.<BR>In this, the first in the series, Skeeve meets Imp assassins, a demon hunter named Quigley, an ex-assassin with green hair named Tananda, a Pervect nameed Aahz, a Deveel named Frumple, and a laughing madman caled Isstvan, among others.  Add the war unicorn(Buttercup) and the dragon (Gleep) and let the insanity begin.  <BR>It's nice that the magik in this book follows rules, of a sort, and nothing is ever quite what it seems.  <BR>And one of my favorite parts would have to be the quotes at the beginning of each chapter, from such notables as Darth Vader, Robin Hood, Thomas Edison, Benedict Arnold, Gengas Khan, and a pair refered to as Lor L. and Har D.<BR>A quick read, but... All in all, if it doesn't make you laugh out loud, it will at least make you smile.	2002-09-19
US	34855630	R2N57L7QB7K3IY	0886774268	749466176	Magic's Price (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	All good things must come to an end, after all ...	Magic's Price: somehow the title seems to say it all.  This is the final book in the trilogy, a fact which I never cease to lament.  I just don't want it to end.  <BR>As with the others, 10 stars, at least.<BR>Vanyel starts this book more isolated and alone than ever.  His King is dying, the King's lifebonded with him, leaving their daughter, fathered by Vanyel, heartsore because of it.  <BR>Then, a small ray of hope, and the introduction of Bard Stefen. (who we that have read the later books were waiting for) It seems the young Bard has a Wild Talent; he can sing pain away.  For the King, who is in constant agony, this is a tremendous boon.  <BR>Bard Stefen also happens to have a thing for Herald Vanyel, and tries everything he can think of to... Well, you get the idea.  <BR>The irony never fails to amaze me, that Vanyel's father is mostly responsible for finally bringing them together.<BR>There is a brief interlude of peace and happiness for Vanyel, as he also makes peace with his father finally, and I alway get the urge to close the book there and think, Oh, they lived happily ever after.  I never do though.  The story just pulls me in again.  <BR>Herald mages start dying, and soon Vanyel is faced with the knowledge that his foresight dreams of old may have truth in them.<BR>I always, always cry at the end of this book.  It gets me every time. ...	2002-09-19
US	34855630	R1OPBXXNRWJQVB	0553578995	111567524	The Company of Glass: Everien: Book One (Everien, Bk 1)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Wonderfully creative, but...	I gave this book 2 stars because, while the storyline is intricate, and the characters varied and interesting, the writting style leaves much to be desired.  <BR>Mainly, it seems diconnected.  The threads of the plot are cut in too many pieces, and then lined up just a little off.  It didn't have the depth I usually look for in a book like this.  Nothing is ever really explained, and while I know people can pick up many of these things on their own, it would have been nice to have a little more help.  <BR>It's not all bad though.  There are many good ideas, and much that can be followed up on and expanded.  <BR>All in all, I would have enjoyed this book a great deal more if it had made more sense at any point.  Sorry, but I'm just being honest.  <BR>I will, however, read the next one anyway.  It has the promise of a great story.	2002-09-19
US	34855630	R2VJEJMU4Q9LNK	0061059072	199937184	The Last Continent	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Rincewind to the rescue!	How can you not like this book?  I mean, really!  It had me laughing so hard (and getting a great many strange looks from the public) I was nearly crying.  <BR>Next to Death (but only by a tiny amount) Rincewind is my favorite character.  How could you not love this cowardly almost-but-never-quite-there hero?<BR>And the almost-Aussie folks were just wonderful.  Especially if you've actually heard some of the genuine Aussie expressions. FourEcks was a truly interesting place to visit.<BR>And we can't forget the wizards.  What's funnier than THAT group marooned on a prehistoric island?  And when they meet the God ... I was laughing so hard I gave myself a coughing fit.<BR>Plus, we have a walking suitcase, and the kangaroo...<BR>My favorite Discworld book, without a doubt.  May there be many, many more.<BR>Go Rincewind go!	2002-09-17
US	34855630	R2SFSVISD83RP	0345435273	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not bad at all...	I just read this book last night, in one sitting, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Not quite what I usually read, but I was very pleasantly surprised.<BR>I must admit, I didn't read the book before it, (to be honest, I didn't know about it) but I got in the spirit of the story very quickly.  <BR>All of the characters are different, which is what makes it so good.<BR>But, I have to say, I couldn't get enough of Darkness. (or Doyle, if you prefer)  Who could resist a guy like that?  Those eyes, that skin, that body, his hair... All I can say is Wow!	2002-09-17
US	34855630	R34SLAN3ZLPY2B	0886774012	952247332	Magic's Promise (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	As good as the first, which is hard to get	This is the second book, and I loved it as much as the first.  Vanyel is older now, and more mature; a battle-seasoned veteran fresh off the lines.  <BR>His character continues to develop, and he never fails to surprise and delight the reader.  <BR>This book opens with Vanyel, burned of all his reserves, going home for an extended family visit.  And anyone who's read the first book knows how that will go.  <BR>It shows Vanyel being a Herald, and also a person.  He finally realizes that his reputation as First Herald-Mage Vanyel Ashkevron, called Demonsbane, called ...well, the list goes on.  He tries to come to terms with the fact that his reputation is frightening people away, and come to terms with his family at the same time.<BR>Add a dash of magic, a young Herald in distress, and a few other surprises and this is definitely a book worth reading.  This is where Vanyel really comes into his own, and tries to make peace with some of his demons.  <BR>Again, as with the first, ten stars!	2002-09-17
US	34855630	R1D4SFPFRUOYE7	0886773520	42355391	Magic's Pawn (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I know you've heard this before, but ...	This is one of my all time favorite books ever.  If you haven't read it, you HAVE to.  The story is inspiring, and Vanyel is a truely believable character.  <BR>   I read, with some dismay, a few reviews that were taking a negative stance on the fact that Vanyel is shay'a'chern.  I, at least, feel that that only adds to the story.  It adds to his feelings of isolation and makes him feel even more cut off and alone.  If he hadn't been shay'a'chern, it's possible that he would never have become a herald.  <BR>   Vanyel is my favorite character, mainly because it's so easy to feel empathy toward him.  Every time I read it (and that's alot of times) I get caught in the power and emotion of the story.  The things Vanyel goes through ... Well, they make you believe that if he can fight through that much adversity and anguish to become what he was meant to be, you can do the same.  <BR>   This book presents a very touching story of a young boy struggling with many things. (I won't spoil it for you by listing them)  It may not be the most well written book, but believe me, you don't even notice that in passing until you've read it several times.  <BR>   The power behind this book is the way that, when you read it, you see parts of yourself in Vanyel.  It grabs you every time, and pulls you in.  Once you pick it up, you'll not want to put it down until it's finished.  <BR>   I really can't say enough good things about this book.  Anyone who has ever had problems of any kind should read it.  After you finish, the world seems a better place somehow.  <BR>   If I could, I'd give it 10 stars.	2002-09-14
