US	34897105	R3FKL7WILX5HOA	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Hemingway's work is subpar	The Old Man and the Sea by Ernest Hemingway is a story about quiet determination in the face of insurmountable odds that would overcome a person who was not as courageous as the novel's main character, Santiago. Santiago is a fisherman who has not caught a fish in eighty-four days and is beginning to feel the effects of being fishless for so long. He is very thin and weak, and had to sell most of his fishing equipment, and someone has to give him food for him to eat. The bright spot in his life is a boy named Manolin. Manolin used to fish in the same boat with Santiago, but after forty-two days of not catching a fish the boy's parents made him switch to a luckier boat against his wishes. The boy still felt obligated to the old man in a way a son loves his father, and takes care of him, making sure he eats, and had blankets to sleep with, and that sort of thing.<BR> Hemingway creates characters with a lot of depth like Manolin; he cares for Santiago even though he doesn't have to and fishes for a lucky boat. This is indicative of Hemingway in the sense that he likes to create characters through action and dialogue and not so much from digressing commentary on the side, you only get a feel of Santiago by how he catches the fish and what he says to himself as he is catching the fish. Hemingway also uses a lot of imagery throughout the book that allows the reader to get a sense of what he is talking about without a bunch of detail that most writers of his era used. The way Hemingway describes Santiago's Cuban town and Santiago himself are both good examples of this, a line from the novel reads, \\"That afternoon there was a party of tourists at the terrace looking down at the water among beer cans and dead barracudas.\\" This line clearly gives the reader a vision of  the poor and disheveled town where Santiago lives. The Old Man in the Sea also was laden with symbolism that was subtle, yet just obvious enough to catch the reader's attention. The birds Santiago sees while fishing is the best example of this as they show freedom and prosperity, two things Santiago is striving for. My favorite character was Manolin because he is very dependable and is always willing to help Santiago. <BR> The character I felt I could most relate to was Manolin, \\"the boy.\\" He would rather have stayed on the boat with Santiago regardless of whether he was catching fish or not, but his parents would not let him, and a boy must yield to his parents. My father is much the same way, making decisions for me whether I agree with them or not, but I must go along with his wishes no matter what, because he is my father. And that is how Manolin and Santiago both feel, that Manolin must agree to his father's wishes simply because he's his father. Hemingway does this a lot; he creates characters the \\"every day person\\" can identify with.<BR> The book, stylistically, is not appealing to me because, even though I like the short-and-to-the-point works of writers like Hunter S. Thompson, Ernest Hemingway's style leaves too much to the imagination. I like to read a book where authors try out their ability to create beautiful language and Hemingway just does not do that. But, I felt he tried to get across a good lesson in the novel, and that was to have courage. A person cannot go through life always being afraid, and Santiago was the one of the most courageous characters I have ever read. So, I like it for its message, but not for the way it was written.<BR> This novel is an easy read, and would be perfect for anyone that feels they cannot read a lot of books because the authors make it too difficult. I would also recommend this novel to people who enjoy adventure stories, because this story is one long adventure. And personally, I would recommend this book because Hemingway gives a good message in it everyone should think about.	2004-07-14
US	34897105	R21VIJYTJE9TQM	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Their Eyes Were Watching God Review	Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Noale Hurston is a book about, a woman named, Janie and her experiences on life and love. Janie is a beautiful lady that always has men chasing her. She lived the first 40 years of her life the way other people wanted her to. She lived by other people's rules. After her second husband died this all changed. She met a man named Tea Cake and fell in love. This was the first time Janie ever experienced true love.<BR> I use to feel like Janie. I felt like I was trying to live my life up to everyone else's expectations. This was fine until I realized I was unhappy. I'm also a risk taker in love like Janie. Even though everyone had bad thoughts of Tea Cake and Janie's relationship Janie doesn't care. She went off and married Tea Cake anyways. I would have done the same thing, because no matter what everyone else says you can't help who you love. <BR>This is a great story on life and love. Tea Cake and Janie really loved each other despite what everyone else thought. My favorite part is when he risks his life to save Janie's, and said he would do it again. This shows that Tea Cake has an incredible amount of love for Janie. The dialect is hard to translate sometimes, but it is still a good book.<BR> If you are a person who likes love stories you would like this book. It is very touching, and the love between Janie and Tea Cake is real. I would recommend people to read this book, and see life through Janie's eyes.	2004-06-01
US	34897105	R2U9CQ5ZCVPBQ4	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Fahrenheit 451	Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury is a novel about a futuristic society where censorship reigns supreme and independent thought is deeply scrutinized. This is a world where the televisions talk to you, vehicular manslaughter is an innocent charge as long as you have insurance, and fireman burn books instead of putting fires out. The main character in this novel is a fireman named Guy Montag, a man happy with his job, his wife, his place in society, and life in general. All of this holds true until one fateful evening, after a successful night of setting millions of pages ablaze, Montag runs into a wistful teenager named Clarisse. She is an introverted girl by this future society's standards because she doesn't enjoy playing sports, or driving fast. Her main interests are thinking and talking about what she's thinking--very anti-social to everyone else. Clarisse is the catalyst for Montag's rise from subservient book burner to independent thinking intellectual. Montag begins to take books from the houses he burns and hide them in his air conditioner, promising to read them one day. One night, the firemen come to an old woman's house where they are to burn her collection of books. Beatty, the firehouse captain, douses her collection of books with kerosene, but instead of letting that be the end of it, the old woman decides to set herself on fire along with her treasures. Montag becomes very sickened by this event and decides not to be a fireman anymore. This is where one of the most crucial scenes comes into play, Beatty comes to Montag's house to talk him into staying a fireman, using all of his cunning and sly words to tell him how things were, and how they are better now. Montag makes a choice not go with what society wants, and to become a rebel. Montag meets with a professor to learn how to fully understand what he's reading, and they come upon an insidious plan to plant books in fireman's houses and call alarms on them, effectively destroying the idea that books should be burned if the burners themselves want them. Montag decides to go into work one last time, and after they get a call, much to his surprise, they arrive at his house. Montag's own wife Mildred had called in an alarm, and quickly left. Montag kills the other firemen and goes on the run, eventually meeting a gang of old college professors in the woods, and becoming one of them.<BR> The character I felt I could most relate to was the main character Guy Montag. Montag was really confused with his life, and how it was turning out, he didn't know if he liked the person he had become. I think I would do the same thing as Montag did if I were in his position. Montag's society reminded me of today's society slightly where censorship is still a problem, but to only a small extent. Also, the only way people in Montag's society could enjoy anything was if it was fast paced and devoid of any need to think, sometimes I feel that holds true with our society as well. Take our sports for example: football, basketball, hockey, all of these are extremely violent and fast.<BR> I did not like the book for a few reasons. The first is that I felt the view point of the novel was too extreme, and it lost some of its value because I just could not relate to it as well as the novel wanted me to. Another was the characters, outside of Montag, all the characters are static and flat, not one of them changes. I did enjoy the digressions in the book, the time Bradbury took to stretch his own personal talents with beautiful, and sometimes scary, descriptions of what Montag was thinking. But, I felt that Bradbury was trying to hard to fit into an Ernest Hemingway style of quick thoughts without explanation, giving the reader the opportunity to figure out what is being said like a puzzle. It just didn't do it for me.<BR> My recommendation is that people should read this novel because it can give insight to how any society works. But I do not believe it is an important novel because it just didnot get its point across well enough. Read this novel if you dislike censorship and wish to see it completely abolished, but this is the only type of reader I feel could totally enjoy this novel.	2004-05-27
US	34897105	R18EGKRRLZY57W	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Book for You	Brave New World by Aldous Huxley is a story about a futuristic society where people's every move is ultimately controlled through brainwashing as infants and children. People are grown in tubes and conditioned to live life a certain way and by a strict hierarchy. This hierarchy is made up of five classes, the highest being Alpha, followed by Betas, Deltas, Gammas, and finally Epsilons. This conditioning makes people live the \\"happiest\\" they can by using the least amount of reason possible, other than to perform the necessary tasks involved with sustaining the world, but when any sort of mood penetrates this veneer of  euphoria, the drug soma is available to wash away the uneasiness. However, there are people who are not able to conform into the neat little automatons that the society wants everyone to be-these radicals make up the main characters. Bernard Marx, mocked and ridiculed for his small stature because everyone who is an Alpha is grown to be big, strong, and good looking, is the first of the main characters we meet. Because of his being an outcast, Bernard starts to think differently than the people around him, something looked down upon by the standards of the \\"brave new world.\\" The next main character that is introduced to the reader is Bernard's best friend Helmholtz Watson, the physical antithesis of Bernard, and everything their society wants in someone, except he wants to be a writer, and write about his feelings and emotions, things people are not allowed to express, or even feel. This makes Helmholtz ultimately unhappy, because he can't find a way to express himself through the writing content allowed by the society. Finally, there is John, \\"The Savage,\\" who Bernard finds on a reservation for Indians in New Mexico. John is the son of a Beta woman who was lost and forgotten about on the reservation years ago. Now, child birth is something that disgusts most \\"civilized\\" people in this future world, as most are grown, and not birthed. So, a person born to a civilized woman is of great interest and John is allowed to go back to London with Bernard to become immersed in the \\"brave new world.\\" John quickly becomes disgusted with this civilized world, and rebels by taking soma rations away from a group of Gamma workers and throwing them out of a window, demanding they strive for liberty, rather than servitude. The Gamma workers become appalled by John's actions and begin to fight him for the rations. Helmholtz dives into the fray to help John, and along with Bernard, they are arrested. All three are brought before the resident Controller, the person who basically controls the life of the citizens, Mustapha Mond. A discussion erupts between the prisoners and the controller. Huxley uses the individually intelligent dialogue that these rebels have as compared to the other citizens in the novel to show the extremes on both sides of the argument. They discuss art, and why it cannot exist, religion, and how it has changed, and philosophy, and why it is only true to the individual, something the new world has tried to eradicate. In the end neither side persuades the reader because the arguments on both sides are too extreme.<br /> I found a lot to connect with this novel about, as it shines light onto today's faults by showing the opposite, the world's foil. We accept our upbringing and continue with it through our children because that's the way we've been taught; why shouldn't they be? Present day art, poetry, and literature are all ultimately controlled, not to the extent as in Brave New World, but that is the point of the book: to show us what we look like in the extreme. The character I felt I could most relate to was John. He is someone who can somehow see the world through a different set of eyes than others do.  His choices were \\"insanity or lunacy,\\" wrote Huxley in the Foreword.  This seems to be the only choice the world gives a lot of people. We can either work a job we hate or live on the street.<br /> I reallyloved the book, and thought it was a great example of the effect society has on an individual. So much emphasis is put on preserving the social order we forget what it is like to have the right to be truly free. Though, the book poses interesting questions like, we strive to live without society, but is it really possible? And, do we all want order on some level? This book provides many questions, but none of the answers, which to me makes the book great because it allows the reader to think independently, and not be influenced by the writer. Brave New World lets a person really question his or her place in life without being antagonistic, making it easier to understand Huxley's point of view.<br /> My recommendation would be to read the book as many times as you would like, because it may offer insight you may not have seen the first, or second time you read it. Anyone who enjoys questioning life, and questioning society, should read this novel. Brave New World should be an important part of everyone's library.ved the book, and thought it was a great example of the effect society has on an individual. So much emphasis is put on preserving the social order we forget what it is like to have the right to be truly free. Though, the book poses interesting questions like, we strive to live without society, but is it really possible? And, do we all want order on some level? This book provides many questions, but none of the answers, which to me makes the book great because it allows the reader to think independently, and not be influenced by the writer. Brave New World lets a person really question his or her place in life without being antagonistic, making it easier to understand Huxley's point of view.<BR> My recommendation would be to read the book as many times as you would like, because it may offer insight you may not have seen the first, or second time you read it. Anyone who enjoys questioning life, and questioning society, should read this novel. Brave New World should be an important part of everyone's library.	2004-05-18
US	34897105	RYZ9K5APGW2I4	0061097314	842706595	The Bean Trees: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bean Trees	The Bean Trees was a very uplifting story.  It was about a young woman named Taylor who decides to move from her small town home in Kentucky, out west.  On her journey she stops in Oklahoma when something goes wrong with her car and a woman stops her and insists she take a small baby with her because no one wants it anymore.  Taylor takes the baby and names her Turtle because she clings on to everything she can get her little hands on.  The two make it out to Arizona and meet a lady named Mattie who owns a tire shop called \\"Jesus is the Lord Used Tires.\\"  Mattie and Taylor develop a bond and Taylor learns that Mattie helps immigrants from Guatemala escape their deaths.  She has a \\"sanctuary\\" for them above her shop.  Taylor moves in and develops a close relationship with a single mother named Lou Ann, whose husband walked out on her and their son.  While in Arizona Taylor learns that she does not have any claim over Turtle and that she would need to adopt her.  <BR> I can relate to Taylor the most because we share the same view about some things.  We both believe that this world is in fact an awful place.  People are proud to pick on those who can't defend themselves, such as the poor and the weak.  Some people have it in their minds that everyone should be like alike and if you're different, you are something to be feared, and we deal with fear by being defensive.  Taylor and I both think that people need to learn to love others' differences instead of considering differences as undesirable.  <BR> I fully enjoyed this book.  I wish I had read it in high school because I had a hard time with cruel people.  Girls would make fun of me because I was smarter than they, or they called me ugly when they had no one else to say it to.  I choose not to judge others because I hate being judged myself.  My life was made so much harder because I was surrounded by little-minded people who put others down to try and make themselves feel better.  I am still wondering if this actually solves their problems.  I wish I didn't have to see the world as it really is, and instead I could be naive and view it as I would like to.  <BR> I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone.  There were many times when tears would fill my eyes with the heart-felt things that Taylor would say.  Sometimes I thought it was myself talking.  I believe that everyone was put here for at least one reason: for others to love.  I know my parents and many other people love me and often times that is all that keeps me going.  Everyone deserves to be cared about and helped.  Someone who has been teased or taunted and wishes the people in this world had something better to do than put others down would enjoy this book the most.  But I would also like to recommend it to those who are the \\"teasers\\" and tell those people to grow up and learn to be kind.	2004-03-03
US	34897105	R1VV71POMPGY7X	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Great Gatsby	The Great Gatsby is about a man named Nick Carraway who moves to New York.  He ends up renting a small cottage next to a mansion, which is occupied by the man who gives his name to the book, Jay Gatsby.  This story takes place during what was known as the \\"roaring twenties\\" when everyone seemed to get rich quick.  People who weren't there to experience it first hand seem to see it as a time when everyone got rich, went to speakeasies and consumed alcohol illegally.  F. Scott Fitzgerald seems to think that the twenties were an era of possibility, aspiration and achievement.  Gatsby is a deep, mysterious character that has secretly loved Nick's second cousin, Daisy Buchanan, since they used to date five years before the story takes place.  In the present, Daisy is married to Tom Buchanan, and they have a young daughter.  Tom has a mistress, who is also married, and Gatsby takes the opportunity to win back Daisy's heart.<br /> Like Gatsby, I've made the mistake of thinking I wasn't good enough for someone and that they wouldn't accept me just the way I was.  Jay Gatsby took it to a higher level than I when he lied about his upbringing and basically \\"wrote his own story.\\"  It is heartbreaking to think that someone won't accept you for who you really are.  It hurts when people see your flaws and imperfections as what makes them better than you instead of viewing those flaws as what makes you human.  This book, narrated by Nick, who said, \\"I am one of the few honest people I have ever known,\\" brought me to the realization that people should not be ashamed of their past and the details of their less than perfect lives and instead learn to love them because it is what makes us who we are.<br /> The Great Gatsby accentuates the idea that ambition is a strong virtue. It reminds us that when you strive to become the best and you want it bad enough, you'll get it.  Our lives should be about turning ambition into success instead of material things and status.  We need to achieve happiness in our own lives before we try and be happy with someone else.  This book is a good choice for a romantic and someone who needs motivation, like I did, to be proud of their flaws and their uniqueness.<br /> I would recommend this book to other people with hope that they get a message from it.  A visual mind will see the story as a result of the description used.  I would also recommend this book to someone who needs a reminder that success is achieved by ambition and hard work, and that all people, as perfect as they may seem, have details in their lives that they find faulty.appiness in our own lives before we try and be happy with someone else.  This book is a good choice for a romantic and someone who needs motivation, like I did, to be proud of their flaws and their uniqueness.<BR> I would recommend this book to other people with hope that they get a message from it.  A visual mind will see the story as a result of the description used.  I would also recommend this book to someone who needs a reminder that success is achieved by ambition and hard work, and that all people, as perfect as they may seem, have details in their lives that they find faulty.	2004-02-26
US	34897105	R1AH3I1HSWI0ZL	0451525582	900054889	White Fang and The Call of the Wild (Signet Classic)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Call Of The Wild	The Call Of The Wild is about Buck, a dog that is stolen from his master and is shipped to the Artic North. Buck had a life that stranded him in another environment, and he develops skills to survive in the Artic. Spitz is the dog that hates Buck because he thinks Buck will take over as the new leader of the team. Judge Miller is Buck's first owner, and he just wants his dog back. John Thornton is Buck's new owner who buys Buck and traines him to be a sled dog. Buck and Spitz run into problems with each other and ended up fighting. Judge Miller has problems because he can't find his dog. John Thornton has money problems so he uses Buck to win money for him. Buck has adventures moving to the Artic and learning to be a sled dog. My favorite character is Spitz because he is a ferocious, fearless thief who wants to be respected by every dog. But the only dog that stands up to him is Buck and Spitz doesn't approve of that.<BR>Buck is a character that I can relate to. He has to adapt to a new environment in a new place. I will have to adapt to Boot Camp when I join the Marine Corps. It isn't going to be easy, but it will be a good experience.<BR>I liked the book. My favorite part is when Buck and Spitz finally fight. This battle determines the strength of Buck turning into a leader and defending himself. My least favorite part is the fate of Hal, Charles and Mercedes. Their experience demonstrates how hard it was to sled from one place to another in the cold Alaskan weather. <BR>I recommend this book to any reader. People that enjoy reading adventure stories will especially enjoy this book. The Call Of The Wild was interesting and full of adventure.	2004-01-23
US	34897105	R39OF3XWU4NQHL	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	4	1	1	N	N	To Kill A Mockingbird	To Kill A Mockingbird is a novel based on the childhood of a young girl. Bob Ewell, Boo Radley, Tom Robinson and Scout were all main characters. Bob Ewell is a mean, racist man who accuses Tom of raping his daughter. Boo Radley is a retarded, crazy person, so the children fear him. Tom Robinson is a black man who is trying to survive in the town with racism problems. Scout is the young girl who tells the story of what happens in her town. Bob has problems with Tom, so he said that he saw Tom rape his daughter. Scout has problems with Boo because she wanted to be friends and he didn't. My favorite character is Scout, because she wanted to know who Boo Radley really is, and she was determined to find out.<BR>If I could relate to a character in the story, it would be Atticus. Atticus is a man who took up the challenge of a new type of legal case. He, a white man, is willing to defend a black man. Atticus took the challenge because if he doesn't than he couldn't hold up his head in town, and he couldn't hold his morals and principals. He felt that Tom Robinson was innocent, and he knew that Tom wasn't going to be found innocent by the people. I am also taking up a challenge to become a U.S. Marine. I want to challenge myself to this because it will be a good thing for me. I want to be able to learn leadership, self-reliance, new skills, honesty and loyalty.<BR>I like the book. My favorite part is when the Ewell kids sat on the black side of the court, because they wanted to hear the decision of the judge. They knew Tom was innocent. At that point the town was convinced that Tom Robinson was not guilty of the crime. My least favorite part is when Mr. Nathan Radley fills the tree hole with cement. He did it because he doesn't like little kids to be playing with his property. Jem and Scout were mad that he covered the hole because they left a chain, a knife and a watch there. Mr. Nathan Radley was just being mean person toward kids that get near his property. In this story, I would change the way Boo Radley is. He didn't deserve to be like this. He was a good boy but had problems with his head. He was lost in his own little world and his parents just made his life worst.<BR>I would recommend this book to others, because it's good for people to read. It's very interesting with lots of detail about life in the old South. People will re-think about life back in the day after they read this book. Everyone will like this book.	2003-12-16
US	34897105	R2BOFFFZM2FOPY	0061097314	842706595	The Bean Trees: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Life With Beans	The story The Bean Trees is about how people, no matter how different they are from one another can come together. The Bean Trees deals with issues of race and motherhood when a young white woman takes in an Indian child as her own. The main characters in this story are, Taylor a spirited young woman. Turtle a neglected little Indian baby. Lou Ann, Taylor's best friend. Maddie, Taylor's employer, she also houses illegal immigrants. Esparanza and Estavon, two of Maddie's \\"friends.\\" <BR>The main characters are all fighting for freedom and ownership. They all form bonds along the way, thus they help each other by whatever means possible.  The characters are always running into problems along the way. For instance, trying to get away with breaking the law, working odd jobs, and just trying to maintain a decent life. Not only do they run into problems, they share many adventures of the perfect life. They do lots of traveling and meet new people along the way, some they always remember and others they will want to forget. <BR>I have two favorite characters.  The first is Taylor. I like her because she is a young and unpredictable woman trying to raise a little girl all on her own. My second favorite character is Turtle. I like her because she is quiet and mesmerizing. On a personal basis I feel that I relate to these characters through their emotions. I did enjoy the book very much. I found it to be very entertaining, always full of excitement. My favorite part of the book was when Taylor legally adopted Turtle. It was such a long and anticipated wait, and when it finely came, I was overjoyed. The only thing I would change is the beginning because it starts off kind of slow. I recommend this book to anyone who likes to read because readers will get a lot out of it. This book is very powerful.	2003-12-16
US	34897105	R2I4N7AJZJDMZ1	0679734775	644788834	The House on Mango Street	Books	3	8	9	N	N	The House On Mango Street Book Review	The book The House On Mango Street by Sandra Cisneros is a novel about a young girl and the life she deals with while growing up in Chicago. The main character of the novel is Esperanza. Esperanza is a young girl growing up in an old broken down house on Mango Street. Esperanza dreams of the day she will have her own house, one she can be proud of unlike the house on Mango Street. The novel is a series of different vignettes, each vignette about a different character or experience that Esperanza encounters. Other significant characters discussed in the vignettes narrorated by Esperanza are: Nenny who is Esperanza's little sister. Rachel and Lucy are two sisters that become close friends of Esperanza's. Another character who is admired by the boys because of her beauty is Sally. Sally, who Esperanza is somewhat jealous of, is another one of Esperanza's friends. The characters are faced with many problems throughout the novel. One problem endured by Esperanza, Rachel and Lucy together is when they prance down to the corner store, showing off their legs, in dancing shoes. The three girls are overwhelmed with confidence hearing the boys hoot and holler at them. The problem wasn't walking to the corner but the drunk bum man they meet there. This man who has no respect for women tries to test the vulnerability of the young girls, but Lucy and Esperanza sense something is wrong and all three girls flee home. The three of them realize that growing up isn't all it is made out to be and throw the \\"grown-up\\" shoes away. A serious problem that Sally deals with everyday is abuse; her father beats her when he does not agree with something she has done. Abuse like this not only leaves Sally emotionally scared but also physically. An on going conflict seen in many characters throughout the whole novel is the characters, more than anything, want something better then what they have and are willing to give up what makes them happy to achieve that goal. There are many characters withlikeable qualities in the novel but my favorite character is Nenny because she is so young and carefree. <BR> Many people, myself included, can find themselves relating to the characters. Like the characters in the novel, I imagine many people while growing up wanted more than what they had, always longing for the next best thing. There was a point in my life I always wanted better but now I realize none of the things I begged my parents for could of made me happy. I did not mind reading this book but it is not one that I would read again because I found it kind of boring and dull. I found the book to be very easy reading, it seemed too simple. My favorite part was when Esperanza, Rachel, Lucy and Nenny bought their new bike. My least favorite part was when Sister Superior denied Esperanza a seat in the canteen at lunch. I wouldn't change anything in the novel because the author did a good job of fitting all of the vignettes together very well.<BR> I would recommend this book to others because it is easy to understand. I think this book would be best for a freshman high school class because they would get the most from it. Anyone facing the struggles of growing up and fitting in would enjoy reading this novel.	2003-11-21
US	34897105	R29O84YU86Y4VV	014038572X	249148416	The Outsiders	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Insite to The Outside	The Outsiders is based on the life of a young boy growing up on the wrong side of town. He has to learn to cope with harsh surroundings, gang violence and the pressures to succeed. Along the way he is faced with many life-altering decisions. <BR> The main character in this book is a young boy named Ponyboy; he is the one who serves as the narrator in the story. Ponyboy is the youngest of three brothers. The oldest of the brothers, Darry, is a gallant protector and father figure to Ponyboy and Ponyboys other brother because a tragic accident had occurred in the family. Sodapop, Ponyboys second oldest brother is a more carefree and fun loving kind of guy. He and Ponyboy are very close. The other characters in this novel are: Two-bit who brings the group their definition of entertainment, Dally a fierce notorious lawbreaker, and Steve, Sodapops best friend, whos always ready for a good fight and loves the hood life. There is also Jonny, who acts as everyones kid brother. He is always sweet and nice due to his living situation at home, and past traumatic events.<BR>These boys make up a very colorful circle of friends. They are always there for each other know matter what. Together they have the time of their lives. They are The Greasers. <BR>Some of the other characters, from the Upper-East Side consist of Cherry, a spunky little red head that touches the hearts of both sides. She also happens to be a cheerleader at Ponyboys school. Bob, Cherrys boyfriend gets in more trouble than you can imagine. Randy is Bobs best friend and also his side kick. Together the boys wreak havoc among the greasers just because they can. Everyday these characters run into numerous amounts of problems. They deal with things such as fights, family, friends, girls, and even murder. Each day is filled with enough adventures to last a lifetime. <BR> My favorite character is Ponyboy. He is my favorite because he learns so much and you feel as if you are learning andgrowing with him. Many of the challenges and outcomes he deals with are so gut wrenching and heart touching that I did not want to put the book down. I felt as if I could relate to each and every character on a different level. I absolutely loved the book. I could not put it down. The structure and composition, combined with the energy level of the book were elaborately well done and very mind gripping. I would not change a thing about the book at all; otherwise I feel it would not be worth reading. <BR> I completely recommend this book to anyone who loves to read. I feel, that all types of people can relate, in someway or another, to this book. So go out and get your copy today, otherwise you will be missing out.	2003-10-20
US	34897105	R2VES1E5MC0G2E	014017737X	779170984	The Pearl	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The review on the Pearl	Based on a Mexican folk tale, The Pearl explores the secrets of man's nature, the darkest depths of evil, and the luminous possibilities of love. Kino and his wife, Juana, are a family that live in a poor village by the sea.  The men in the village dive for pearls and live off the sea for their means of support. Kino and his wife live in a brush hut with dirt floors. They have to use fire as a source of light inside their hut. They don't have beds, instead they sleep on mats made out of straw, and for food they eat corn cakes and beans. Their baby sleeps in a box that hangs from the ceiling.  Kino's dream, like all the other pearl divers in the village, is to find the ultimate pearl.  Then on a day like any other, Kino emerges from the sea with a pearl as large as a sea gull's egg. Kino thought his life would change in a good way after he found the big pearl. He thought he would get good luck and money for the rest of his life.    <BR>I can relate to Juana in this story because I had a lucky penny that was good luck for a little while. I used to play this game with my friend when I was little.  I would always take the penny with me when I would play the game because it helped me win. Then one day it started to bring me bad luck because I started losing all the games we played that day. Juana sees that the pearl is bad luck and knows that they need to put it back into the sea.<BR>I liked The Pearl because it has a lot of detail on how they lived and how the huts were made.  It is a good book and also has a good moral and lesson.  It kept me wondering what was going to happen next.  The author did a good job describing Kino and Juana and how their life style was.   I would recommend this book to anyone who likes adventure.	2003-07-01
US	34897105	R14LU88NTQJOWX	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Of Mice and Men	George and Lenny are two men traveling while striving to support themselves and make a home together. The message that I gathered was that high hopes and dreams for a better future could make a miserable today more tolerable. The main characters are George and Lenny. They are best friends and watch over each other as they travel together. Lenny is unable to take care of himself because of his mental disabilities. George sees him for who he is and is his true friend regardless of the negative things Lenny does. Lenny is an extremely large man and does not understand his strength and the harm he is capable of causing. This leads him to the conflicts that occurred between Curley and his wife. This is the one thing that Lenny did that could not go unpunished for. It is George that did the right thing for his friend Lenny in the end.<BR>I can really relate to this story from a personal experience of my own. My good friend from my childhood always had so much going for him. I don't think he even realized all that he was worth and capable of. Based on his actions it was plainly obvious that he did not see this. He started using drugs, then selling drugs, and then the last straw was when he put himself in the hospital by overdosing. His parents were blinded by what a good kid he was; they didn't understand what was happening. I knew he would be upset with me for telling on him, but it was the most loving thing I could do to save him from his destructive path. He is now clean and sober and has numerously thanked me for caring enough to bring the problem to the surface. So, like George, I looked past what I didn't want to do and did what was best for my friend.<BR> I really enjoyed reading this book because Steinbeck was so descriptive with his choice of words in this novel. I could actually picture each event in the story like I was watching a movie, but better. I love books like this because they are the ones that I can't put down, which makes reading so enjoyable. My favorite parts of the book are every time George and Lenny talk about their dream of having their own farm with the rabbits. It seemed like such a beautiful dream. It made me wish that I had a farm of my own. I didn't like how the novel ended with George and Lenny because they were so close and I hoped that they would remain friends forever. I wouldn't change anything about this book because it was written by a great author and is a classic, even today. It ended just the way it was meant to because any other way would not have given the same message about friendship.<BR> I think that everyone should read this book at least once in their life because it is an excellent work of literature. It is full of excitement and adventure that would keep anyone's mind occupied and entertained. This novel is not really directed to a certain type of person. Each character is different and unique. I would definitely recommend this book to everyone.	2003-06-06
US	34897105	R29N65NKNW2Z1J	0061097314	842706595	The Bean Trees: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The Bean Trees	Bean Trees is about helping others and the possibility of a loving family even if the people are not related. Taylor, the main character, is a young girl from southern Kentucky that bravely leaves her hometown to make a life for herself. She works at a hospital for five years and saves as much money as possible and then buys herself a Volkswagen bug. She decides to take her car and drive west until her car dies in Tuscan, Arizona. Along the way a woman leaves Taylor with Turtle, a little Indian child, to care for. Lou Ann and her baby Duane Ray are Taylor's roommates and family away from home. Lou Ann's husband, Angel, leaves her and her new born baby, Duane Ray, and moves to Montana. Esperanza and Estevan are Taylor and Mattie's friends that are foreigners to the U.S. and are striving to make a new life for them selves. Edna Poppy and Mrs. Parsons are the neighbors of Lou Ann and Taylor that watch over the children whenever needed. Each of the main characters runs into his or her own set of problems and struggles that everyone goes through in life. Their adventures consist of leaving home, traveling, and protecting each other from harm. My favorite character is Taylor because she has such a good heart, possesses a strong personality, and is her own person, unlike anyone else.<BR> I can really relate to Taylor because she needed to find herself and leave her hometown. I have had my own struggles with finding my purpose in life and needing to leave my home to start a life for myself. I think many times throughout the novel Taylor feels alone just as I have many times. She realizes, like I have, that there are so many others that are less fortunate, and the people I love are right before me. All I have to do is open my eyes and see that every thing I need is right before me. I can also relate to Turtle because I was adopted just like her. I understand, just as she does, that just because your family is not blood related it does not mean that you are not loved and don't have a family.<BR> I really enjoyed reading this book because it was adventurous. Even though it was fiction, it still could have been a true story. My favorite part of the book is when Lou Ann finally decides not to go back with her husband, Angel, because I really did not want her and Taylor to go their separate ways. Also, Lou Ann finally realizes that she doesn't need a man in her life to feel secure, and she can be secure with just herself. I did not like the part when Estevan and Esperanza went their separate ways because I was really hoping that Taylor would be able to have Estevan in her life; he really made her happy. I wanted to Taylor to fall in love at some point, and she did, with Estevan, but nothing happened. I really wouldn't change anything in the book because it had a good ending and it was realistic the way everything fell into place.<BR> I would definitely recommend this book to anyone to read for enjoyment. This would be a good book for any age group. Particularly, anyone who enjoys realistic adventures would like this book. All the love and excitement the book has makes it an exceptionally good novel.	2003-06-02
US	34897105	R2P00LU4O3GLMZ	014038572X	249148416	The Outsiders	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Greener Grass	The Outsiders, by S.E. Hinton, is a book about a boy growing up without his parents, having to depend on his brothers and his gang to get him through life's many obstacles. Ponyboy is the main character and the narrator of the story. He lives with his two brothers Darry and Sodapop on the east side. Darry is Ponyboy's oldest brother. He didn't finish college. After their parents died in a car accident, Darry had to get a full time job to support Sodapop and Ponyboy so that the three of them could remain together. Sodapop was the second oldest. He dropped out of high school but he was still Ponyboy's favorite brother. Then there was the gang, the greasers. Steve was Sodapop's best friend. Ponyboy didn't like Steve very much but he respected him because Sodapop would have wanted him to.  Two-Bit was the oldest of the gang. He kept everyone smiling because he was always cracking jokes. Dallas was meaner then the rest of the gang. He spent a few years on the streets of New York. That's how he became so tough. Johnny was the second youngest. He was the gang's pet. Everyone considered Johnny to be their younger brother and everyone was always looking out for him. Johnny is the main reason that the Greasers hated the Socs. The Socs are a gang from the West Side. They are richer then the greasers. They drive nicer cars and wear nicer cloths. When Johnny got badly beaten by the Socs, The gang became was more protective of Johnny and the Greasers always held that grudge on the Socs. The Greasers ran into problems with the Socs throughout the entire book. <BR>My favorite character in the book is Johnny. He was forced to grow up faster then he should have. His mother didn't care about him and his father beat him, but he was still a good person and a dedicated friend to the gang. He seemed to have everything all together. It was almost like he'd seen it all and was a walking testimony to everyone else. Towards the end of the book Johnny was more open then he had ever been, and Igot a chance to see the real Johnny. <BR> I mostly related to Darry in this book. He was a hard worker and he was very responsible. He cared a lot about his siblings, and he held things together. I care a lot about my sisters and I would help them out if they were ever in a sticky situation. I am a responsible person and I could hold a job to support my family if they needed me to. Darry was very worried about Ponyboy when Ponyboy ran away. He was scared to death that Ponyboy would be hurt or get into trouble. He didn't sleep well while Ponyboy was gone. I was really worried about my sister when she went into labor and was rushed into the hospital. I always heard about women who had trouble with their pregnancies and I couldn't sleep the entire night that she was gone. I worried that my nephew wouldn't be healthy and that my sister wouldn't get through it okay.<BR> I really enjoyed this book. It is my favorite book and I am currently reading it again. My favorite part of this book was when Ponyboy hugged Darry. It was my favorite part because in the beginning of the book, Ponyboy doesn't think that Darry cares about him. They were almost always fighting and Ponyboy never felt close to Darry like he did to Sodapop. Ponyboy finally understood that Darry loved him. He finally realized that Darry cared about him and that he worried about him all the time. When Ponyboy and Darry hugged, it was the first time that they ever showed affection towards each other.<BR> I have never read a book as fast as I read this one. Once I started reading it, I couldn't stop. I couldn't get enough of it. The way the book was written and my imagination helped me to actually live on the East Side and I was able to get into the book after only a couple pages of reading it. The book was fantastic and I wouldn't have changed a thing.  <BR> I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who enjoys adventures. The Outsiders would be perfect for anyone that is growing up or has grown up aroundgangs. This book is filled with nowadays situations and confrontations. Gangs fought over the same things then that gangs fight about now. This book was exciting and suspenseful. It kept me on my toes the whole time I was reading it. I recommend this book to everyone that can read. This book was easy to follow, and I guarantee that when you finish it, it will be one of your favorites.	2003-05-20
US	34897105	R3VKPZ5MCS4212	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Joy Luck Club	The Joy Luck   Club is about four women who started a club. They named it the Joy Luck Club to celebrate their good fortune. They tell stories that happened to them when they were young and about their daughters and their lives. It also has a lot to do with the Chinese customs and beliefs. The main characters were Jing-Mei Woo and Waverly Jong. When Jing-Mei Woo was young she played the piano, as she grew older her mother passed away and she took her spot in the Joy Luck Club. After her mother passed away she travels to China with her father to meet her sisters. In her own way she makes her mothers wish come true by going to China to see her sisters. When Waverly was young she played chess and competed in championships to become the champion of little China. As she grew older her mother wasn't satisfied with any of the men she was with unless they were Chinese. She was trying to get her mother to accept Rich, the man she was going to marry. For their honeymoon, they are going to China, but she is scared that if she goes they won't let her return to America. Her mother tells her they will know she is American by the way she carries herself and that they can see it in her face that she is Americanized.<BR> My favorite character was Waverly Jong because she was smart, funny, hard working, strong, and she knows what she wants in life. I enjoyed reading this book and learned a lot about the Chinese customs and cultures. My favorite part of this book is when Rose tells her husband that she is divorcing him, and that she will be keeping the house. My least favorite part of this book was the part when the nurses asked Ying-Ying St. Clair \\"What should we do with this lifeless baby?\\" Ying-Ying hurled a newspaper at them and told them \\"Wrap it up like a fish and throw it in the lake.\\" If I could change one thing about this story it would be my least favorite part of this book, I would have her keep her baby and not treat it like a fish.<BR>I would highly recommend this book toanother person. It didn't get boring and it has a good plot. It mixes tenderness and bitter irony, sorrow and slicing wit. Anyone who wants to learn a little bit more about the Chinese culture should definitely read this book.	2003-05-19
US	34897105	R32CLQW1U39AME	0684801523	487468482	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The wrong outlook on life	The Great Gatsby is a story about a group of characters that all see things in the wrong perspective. Gatsby, the main character, lives an illegal life for the love of a silly married rich girl named Daisy. Daisy thinks that ignorance will get women far in life. In my opinion she is pretty ignorant her self. Tom, Daisy's husband, thinks that money and power gives him the right to do what he wishes to do, including hit women and cheat on his wife with Myrtle Wilson. Myrtle is also married and hopes to one day live a glamorous life with Tom, but Tom is lying when he said he would leave his wife for Myrtle. Myrtle's husband, George Wilson, is a depressed man that looks at life as though it were covered in ashes. The others live in West Egg also known as New York, the city of sin. These confused individuals all have one thing in common and that is that their outlook on life is all wrong. <BR> In the story I found that F. Scott Fitzgerald used colors to help express the characters. He did this by using the green light outside Gatsby's house to show that he had money; he used white dresses that Daisy, Daisy's daughter, and Jordan wore to show they were rich. The Valley of Ashes is a gray gloomy dark depressed place. The author did this to describe the setting more clearly to the reader. I enjoyed the color coordination in the book. The colors make this book more interesting and unique. <BR> The characters were overall selfish people that really did not care much about anyone else. Gatsby's love for Daisy clouds his mind and the facts that Daisy is married already and has a child. Their love affair could jeopardize Tom and Daisy's marriage and the daughter. Tom cheats on his wife regardless that there is a child involved. No one in the story really mentions anything about the welfare of the child. Everyone seems to be much too involved in other things. George just wants to up and leave so bad that he overlooks Myrtle's feelings. Myrtle hurts George to the point of depression, and won't even go to a church when his friend suggests it to him. Daisy leads Gatsby on, knowing that she can't and won't leave Tom. Nick's need to be friendly to everyone blinds him to the point were he can't prevent the tragedies that occur when it's possible to do so. <BR> If I could change one thing about the book The Great Gatsby it would be Gatsby's love for Daisy. The whole love thing between Gatsby and Daisy dose not make sense at all. I would change this because Gatsby's love for her leads to tragedy. Gatsby could have done better. Gatsby was a strange guy that did too much for too little. Gatsby let himself be taken for granted. <BR> I would recommend this book to anyone that is selfish or someone that looks at love, money, power, or dreaming as though this means everything in the world. These things may be good to have but, like in The Great Gatsby, too much can lead a person to his end. This is a book that made me really think about the consequences that result from selfish actions. This book has a great message about life.	2003-05-13
US	34897105	REQPFYRV91HKM	0684801523	487468482	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The bad outlook on life	The Great Gatsby is a story about a group of characters that all see things in the wrong perspective. Gatsby, the main character, lives an illegal life for the love of a silly married rich girl named Daisy. Daisy thinks that ignorance will get women far in life. In my opinion she is pretty ignorant her self. Tom, Daisy's husband, thinks that money and power gives him the right to do what he wishes to do, including hit women and cheat on his wife with Myrtle Wilson. Myrtle is also married and hopes to one day live a glamorous life with Tom, but Tom is lying when he said he would leave his wife for Myrtle. Myrtle's husband, George Wilson, is a depressed man that looks at life as though it were covered in ashes. The others live in West Egg also known as New York, the city of sin. These confused individuals all have one thing in common and that is that their outlook on life is all wrong. <BR> In the story I found that F. Scott Fitzgerald used colors to help express the characters. He did this by using the green light outside Gatsby's house to show that he had money; he used white dresses that Daisy, Daisy's daughter, and Jordan wore to show they were rich. The Valley of Ashes is a symbol of a gray gloomy dark depressed place. The author did this to describe the setting more clearly to the reader. I enjoyed the color coordination in the book. The colors make this book more interesting and unique. <BR> The characters in &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot; were overall selfish people that really did not care much about anyone else. Gatsby's love for Daisy clouds his mind and the thoughts about how Daisy is married already and has a child. Their love affair could jeopardize Tom and Daisy's marriage and the daughter. Tom cheats on his wife regardless that there is a child involved. No one in the story really mentions anything about the welfare of the child. Everyone seems to be much too involved in other things. George just wants to up and leave so bad that he overlooks Myrtle's feelings. Myrtle hurts George to the point of depression, and won't even go to a church when his friend suggests it to him. Daisy leads Gatsby on, knowing that she can't and won't leave Tom. Nick's need to be friendly to everyone blinds him to the point were he can't prevent the tragedies that occur when it's possible to do so. <BR> If I could change on thing about the book The Great Gatsby it would be Gatsby's love for Daisy. The whole love thing between Gatsby and Daisy dose not make sense at all. I would change this because Gatsby's love for her leads to tragedy. Gatsby could have done better. Gatsby was a strange guy that did too much for too little. Gatsby let himself be taken for granted. <BR> I would recommend this book to anyone that is selfish or someone that looks at love, money, power, or dreaming as though this means everything in the world. These things may be good to have but, like in The Great Gatsby, too much can lead a person to his end. This is a book that made me really think about the consequences that result from selfish actions. This book has a great message about life.	2003-05-13
US	34897105	R3UERM2Y1JC4XQ	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Old Man And The Sea Book Review	Old Man and The Sea is about an old man's determination in the face of misfortune. After heading out to sea, he realizes he is in for a greater challenge than expected. The old man, Santiago, encounters a battle with a great creature of nature and the elements. But, it doesn't end there. The struggle to get home after being beaten by the elements is the greatest challenge of them all. The old man shows his endurance and determination by remaining calm in the face of danger. My favorite character in Old Man and The Sea is Santiago because he has so much determination in what ever he does.  <BR> I think I could most relate to Manolin, the boy that helped Santiago, because I like to give my help and things I have to my friends without expecting any thing but friendship in return. I have gone fishing before and caught a pretty big fish. My fish was not even close to the one Santiago caught. I think it would be very exciting to catch something that big. It would also be a great accomplishment to get it home.<BR> I liked the book because it is easy to read and understand. My favorite part was when Santiago is beats the sharks away from his fish. He finds any means necessary to kill the sharks. My least favorite part of the book is when Santiago eats the raw fish because I think eating raw fish is disgusting. If I could change any part of the book it would be the sharks attacking the Marlin. I think the old man worked so hard that he should have had a greater reward.<BR> I would recommend this book to another person because it is a simple book. The book is easy to interpret. The type of person that would like this book is a patient person because the fish-fighting scene goes on forever. All around it's a good book though.	2003-05-05
US	34897105	R2MF0KVFQFM913	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Review of The Hobbit	The Hobbit is a story about a hobbit named Bilbo.  He is invited to go on a journey with thirteen dwarves who are going to their homeland to reclaim the land and their gold. The main character is Bilbo, who is afraid to take risks and likes to keep to himself. The head of the dwarves is Thorin, who leads the others to the gold. A wizard named Gandalf helps Bilbo and the dwarves on their journey.  Bilbo acts as a burglar for the dwarves and rescues the dwarves in a lot of situations. The dwarves lead the way to the mountain to get the gold. Gandalf acts as a protector and advice giver to Bilbo and the dwarves. The characters run into a lot of trouble and adventures in the story. Each trouble is an adventure in the story like when the dwarves get caught by bad guys like goblins and spiders.  They also fight a big battle with five armies. In all of the adventures Bilbo rescues the dwarves. My favorite character in the story was Gandalf because he was very powerful, and he was very wise.<br />  I can't really relate to any of the characters, except Bilbo, because he likes to stay at home all by himself. I also like to stay by myself too, so I can do whatever I want without anyone telling me what to do. I really liked the book; I thought the book was very imaginative.  My favorite part of the book was at the beginning when the author described Bilbo's house in detail as if I were really there looking at it. If I could change a part in the book, I would have the dwarves-instead of Bard-kill the dragon. I recommend this book because it is a really good book. I think the kind of people who would like this book are people, who like fantasy and adventure stories.	2003-04-29
US	34897105	R34Z8PFWMEMVB5	0060929782	318363039	Black Boy (The Restored Text Established by The Library of America) (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great book	Black Boy is a fictional Autobiography about Richard Wright. As a youth Richard had many problems.  His father deserted the family and left them hungry for many years.  Richard had problems living in a society where Blacks weren't accepted, and were treated very poorly.  Richard was very intelligent.  He wanted to prosper in life with his skills.  It was difficult for Richard because he lived in a society where Blacks weren't allowed to prosper.<BR> I can't relate to most of Richard's problems.  As an American white girl, living in the twentieth century it's hard to understand how Richard felt, but I can relate to the incident of when his father left them.  My father deserted my mother and I when I was a child.  I could not understand why my father left or why my mom would cry.  Later in my life, just as Richard did, I met my father again.  I felt as if he were a stranger to me.  I met him and never saw him again.  I have no thoughts or feelings towards it.  This is how I can relate to Richard.<BR>   I honestly loved the book.  I liked the detailed way Richard describes his feelings and the places he visited.   I like how Richard spoke his mind, which got him in trouble with the white folks. The book is very dramatic, which I enjoyed.  It was like reading a novel. The whole book was great.<BR>  I would recommend this book to just about anyone.   I would highly recommend this book to young teenagers.  The reason is young readers can see, through this story how much times have changed for Black people.  Readers will also see how cruel society can be towards minorities.  <BR>Black Boy is a fictional Autobiography about Richard Wright. As a youth Richard had many problems.  His father deserted the family and left them hungry for many years.  Richard had problems living in a society where Blacks weren't accepted, and were treated very poorly.  Richard was very intelligent.  He wanted to prosper in life with his skills.  It was difficult for Richard because he lived in asociety where Blacks weren't allowed to prosper.<BR> I can't relate to most of Richard's problems.  As an American white girl, living in the twentieth century it's hard to understand how Richard felt, but I can relate to the incident of when his father left them.  My father deserted my mother and I when I was a child.  I could not understand why my father left or why my mom would cry.  Later in my life, just as Richard did, I met my father again.  I felt as if he were a stranger to me.  I met him and never saw him again.  I have no thoughts or feelings towards it.  This is how I can relate to Richard.<BR>   I honestly loved the book.  I liked the detailed way Richard describes his feelings and the places he visited.   I like how Richard spoke his mind, which got him in trouble with the white folks. The book is very dramatic, which I enjoyed.  It was like reading a novel. The whole book was great.<BR>  I would recommend this book to just about anyone.   I would highly recommend this book to young teenagers.  The reason is young readers can see, through this story how much times have changed for Black people.  Readers will also see how cruel society can be towards minorities.	2003-04-23
US	34897105	R3CFLHIZAND4VK	0553296981	636860937	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Memory of Anne Frank	The story \\"Anne Frank: The diary of a young Girl\\" by Anne Frank is a story about Anne's life as a little Jewish girl living in hiding with a group of seven other Jewish people during World War Two. In her diary Anne expresses her thoughts and feelings almost every day in her diary. Anne received her diary for her birthday and named it Kitty. Anne named her diary Kitty because of the possibility of someone reading her diary, this way no one would know who she was talking to. Anne's diary is very important because it is one of the few personal historical documents of that time and situation because the others were destroyed.<br /> I can relate to Anne Frank for many reasons. The number one reason is her odd but impressive outlook on life that Anne expresses throughout her diary for the two years in hiding. Anne's feelings on topics such as boys, family, and the future are very similar to children all around the world today.  Anne seems to be picky about boys, and Anne doesn't like the boys her mother likes. In the story Anne mentions that her mother would like her to marry some boy that Anne finds annoying and disgusting. Anne loves her family even her mother who she constantly argues with. Anne and her mother fight all the time making her mother feel Anne did not like her. Anne looks at the future with hope and fear just like children today. Anne hopes that things will get better and fears that things will get worse.<br /> The dates are an important part of the book. For example, the first diary entry takes place Sunday, June 14, 1942.  This was Anne's birthday.  After that day until Anne's diary ends on August 4, 1944, Anne shares her arrival into hiding, her arguments, her first kiss, and information on the war. On the very last page of the book we are told that on \\"March 1945, two months before the liberation of Holland, Anne died in the concentration camp.\\" After sharing Anne's feelings, her entire life story, and her hopes and dreams as I came to the end of her diary I hoped things would end up okay for Anne and her family, but in reality the end of Anne's life was only two months after the end of this story. Anne did not end up with the happy ending that she deserved.<br />This novel was a big wake up call that reminded me that not everyone has got it good.  I would recommend this book to every boy and girl in the United States to remind him or her of Hitler's cruel ways and the struggle that he put Jewish men, woman, and children through. My recommendations are to read the story \\"Anne Frank: Diary of a Young Girl\\" and to think how hard it really was for not only the people in hiding but the poor people that were stolen from their homes and placed in dirty concentration camps and killed for no particular reason at all.  This is a great book and a great learning experience.diary I hoped things would end up okay for Anne and her family, but in reality the end of Anne's life was only two months after the end of this story. Anne did not end up with the happy ending that she deserved.<br />This novel was a big wake up call that reminded me that not everyone has got it good.  I would recommend this book to every boy and girl in the United States to remind him or her of Hitler's cruel ways and the struggle that he put Jewish men, woman, and children through. My recommendations are to read the story \\"Anne Frank: Diary of a Young Girl\\" and to think how hard it really was for not only the people in hiding but the poor people that were stolen from their homes and placed in dirty concentration camps and killed for no particular reason at all.  This is a great book and a great learning experience.	2003-04-21
US	34897105	R32BODGV2OS8BY	014034893X	287534538	Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Book Review	Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry, by Mildred D. Taylor, is a book about the struggles and hardships of a black family in the 1930s. In this story, the Logan family has a number of conflicts with the white people in their community. Stacey is the oldest brother of the four Logan children. Cassie, the second oldest and only daughter, is the narrator of the story. Christopher John is the second oldest brother and Little Man is the youngest. Stacey was TJ's best friend and together they had many adventures that often ended in trouble. Throughout this book, I feel that I grew with Stacey. Stacey is my favorite character because of his ability to understand. He learned a lot about how to deal with life in a prejudice community.<br /> I related to Stacey the most. Stacey was a true friend to TJ, and I like to think of myself as a true friend as well. Although TJ got Stacey into trouble throughout the book and hurt him, Stacey was always there for him whenever he was in serious trouble or needed help. I have friends that have hurt me a lot and whenever they needed a place to stay, my door was always open. I am a warm-hearted person much like Stacey.<br /> This book was definitely a \\"page turner\\" and I enjoyed it a lot. My favorite part of the book was when Mama sat Cassie down and explained to her why white people treated them the way they did. Mama told Cassie that white people were not any better then her and that they just didn't know any better. It was my favorite part because throughout the book Cassie didn't understand why white people were so rude to her until her talk with Mama.<br /> I recommend this book to anyone who likes to read about life struggles and how other people got through them. This book was easy to follow and was honestly the first book I have ever read all the way through. This book captured my attention after the first few pages, and I am almost positive that it would capture anyone else's	2003-04-21
US	34897105	R2KO2GOBAI0ITG	0395177111	276015944	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Hobbit (JB)	The Hobbit takes place in a fantasyland called Middle-Earth.  The story is about a hobbit that goes on an adventure with a group of dwarves to steal their treasure back from a dragon who stole it from the dwarves a long time before this.  The main character is Bilbo, a hobbit that lives in the Shire.  Other main characters are Thorin, leader of the dwarves and heir to the gold that a dragon named Smug stole from his family, and Gandalf, a wizard that added Bilbo to the group and helped them as much as he could on their adventure.  The story is about Bilbo, who gets stuck with an adventure being a thief.  Which is funny because he has no clue how to be a thief or even to steal from someone.  He and a group of 13 dwarves lead by Thorin go on an adventure and steal the dwarve's gold from a dragon.  The whole trip across the mountains led them to many little adventures, with trolls and goblins and other creatures of Middle-Earth.  My favorite character is Gandalf because he is very smart and knows everything about everything (well pretty much, anyway).<BR> At one time I was much like Bilbo.  Not really afraid to have any adventures, just saw no reason for them.  Then I got to High School and that all changed.  Much like how Bilbo did, with a friend showing him the way.  Gandalf started him on his adventure and a friend named Bobby started me on mine.  Bobby taught me that taking a risk every once in a while wouldn't do much harm and that changed my whole life around.  Much like how Bilbo met Gandalf, I met my friend.  Bobby was a friend of one of my family members.  Just like Gandalf was Took's friend, who is one of Biblo's family members.  Right when I met him he began changing me.  He showed me many adventures and changed my life much like Gandalf did for Bilbo.<BR> When I first opened the book I thought it might be a little strange, but the book was amazing.  It is now my favorite book.  It is very hard to pick a favorite part in this book because there is so many, but if I had to pick, the part where Bilbo starts killing all the spiders and names his sword Sting.  Tolkien writes so well I could see this part taking place in my head.  And if I had to change one thing I would change the lack of information.  I want to know more about Beorn and the Necromancer.<BR> I think if someone likes to read; they will like this book.  It is so much more then a fantasy, more like a life lesson. But you have to be willing to let your imagination go.  I would recommend this book to anyone.	2003-03-25
US	34897105	R2QJIJLW2LNBGN	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	1	3	N	N	My Review of The Joy Luck Club	The Joy luck Club is about a group of women who are joined together as friends and tell the stories of their lives. The main Characters in the book are Suyuan Woo and her daughter Jing-mei Woo, An-mei Hsu and her daughter Rose Hsu Jordan, Lindo Jong and her daughter Waverly Jong, and Ying-ying St. Clair and her daughter Lena St. Clair. The main characters told the past stories of their childhood, and how they came to America. Throughout the story each woman told of some good adventures and some hard problems they dealt with in their lives.  Jing-mei is my favorite character because I thought she is a nice person.  I like her determination to be better than Waverly Jong, who is good at everything. <BR> In some ways I can relate to some of the characters in the story. I can relate to Jing-mei because she always tries to be better than everyone else. I can relate to that because I used to do that when I was younger.  I often tried to impress people. But, in the end, it never worked out, just like Jing-mei. While reading the book I shared some of the thoughts and feelings of the characters.  As each woman told her story, I completely knew how she felt.<BR> I really enjoyed reading the book. It gave me an idea of how the Chinese culture was compared to the American culture. The only part I would change would be that the author should give more detail about Jing-mei's new family.	2003-03-18
US	34897105	RARXAOR2M5A2C	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Fahrenheit	The book Fahrenheit 451 was a great book that I really enjoyed. This book takes place sometime in the future. It is a story is about a fireman, he is not a fireman that you and I think about; instead of putting fires out he starts them. He is a book burner. Because in the society that he lives in books are outlawed and are to be burnt. There were four main characters in this story. The most important was Guy Montag. He was a tall black haired man that questions society and himself. He is a fireman that burns books for a living. He makes a lot of changes throughout the book buy the end of the book he is a wanted man. The next character was Clarisse McClellan she is a young girl that is not like everyone else. She is a free thinker she helped Montag get started on his journey. Montag's boss is very important in the book. His name is Captain Beatty. He is a fat black haired man. He seems grumpy and he enjoys burning books. Towards the end of the book he is murdered. Professor Faber is an old professor that helps Motag learn about society and how it used to be. He is weak and cannot act out what he wants to , so he and Montag act as a team. Mildred Montag is Montag's wife. She is the perfect example of the rest of society. She believes that books are horrible and have nothing to offer. All she cares about is her family that was on T.V. and not much of anything else, just like the society she lived in.<BR> While reading this book I could relate to a couple of the characters. For example, Guy Montag questions his job and what he wants to do with his life. I have done this. So I quit my job and made the decision to go back to school. Another character is Clarisse she is outgoing and enjoys to be outside. I also enjoy going outside and I am always ready to try new things. <BR>I liked this book very much. It kept me interested the whole time. My favorite part is when Montag burns the other firemen and starts the chase to the river because it made me want find out if he was going to get caught. My least favorite part is when his wife called the fire alarm on him for hiding books in their house. As a result, Montag is forced to burn his own house.<BR> I would recommend this book to anyone that likes books about the future and what it holds for us. If you are young or old you will enjoy this book. It is a fast paced book with many exciting parts that will keep you reading and guessing the all the way to the end. If you have free time or need to do a book report go out and get a copy of   Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury.	2002-11-20
US	34897105	R2UZK4FI0MJ02B	014038572X	249148416	The Outsiders	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Book Review	The story of The Outsiders is about a rival gang between the Socs and the Greasers.  The Socs are rich kid gangs that hate the Greasers who are less well off, for no particular reason. The story tells about gang members Ponnyboy, Johnnycake, and Dally. Ponnyboy and Johnnycake are the youngest members of the Greasers gang Dally is a mean, crude person who gets in a lot of fights and trouble; in fact, he lives for it.  Soda, Ponnyboy's brother is high on life and gets into fights for the fun of it. Darry, Pohnnyboy's oldest brother, is a hard tough person who tries to be both a father and a big brother to his two younger brothers.   <BR> It is easy for readers to relate to the characters in The Outsiders because they seem like real people.  Soda stands out to me because I enjoy life just like Soda does.  Ponyboy describes Soda as a person that gets drunk on life.  He lives for drag racing and dancing and gets drunk on life without ever touching a beer.  In many ways, Soda leads the life I'd like to have. Ponnyboy is another character that comes easily to life in the book.  I understand just how Pohnnyboy feels about the loss of his parents because my dad left my mother. Ponnyboy often daydreams about the times when his family was together.  He remembers his mom's chocolate cakes and his dad's kidding.  Then suddenly reality hits. I would often daydream about how life  was  better befor  mom and dad were fighting.  Then reality would snap me back.  These are some of the ways this book was real for me. <BR> I think this book is excellent and provides credible portrayal of city gang life. My favorite part of the book was the bonding that came about as a result of the deaths of some of the gang members. They begin to give  more appreciation and commitment to each other's needs. I also liked the part where Cherry the Soc cheerleader begins to understand why the Greasers act the way they do.<BR> I would recommend this book to young readers. Many young people who are in gangs today will find many things in common with the Greasers. There is a lesson here for everyone.	2002-09-26
US	34897105	R1ZL3KFMWO5GH2	014038572X	249148416	The Outsiders	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Outsiders	The Outsiders is about a group of boys that live on the wrong side of the tracks. These boys are known as greasers because of their rough tough looks and attitudes. This gets them into a lot of trouble with the police and the Soc's. As the main character would have explained Soc's are nothing but white trash with Madras and Mustangs, by the end he figured different. There are rumbles, murders, robberies, and runaways so this book is really exciting.<BR> Many of the things that go on in this book don't typically happen these days. Sure some of them do but it is not a thing you hear about on a day-to-day basis. There are few things I can personally relate to in this book, but there are many things I am able to understand that the characters are going through throughout the entire book. The three main characters in the book are Darry, Sodapop, and Ponyboy. They are all brothers. There are some characteristics of Darry's that I share. Darry has a lot of muscle and brains just like I do. He can also be rather cold at times, but once in a while he is affectionate. <BR> This was a very good book. This book is one that everyone should read at least once. There is at least one character that everyone will in some way feel close to whether it is because they act alike or because they have the same personality. You will find a character that you can identify with.The thing I liked most about this book is that there is a lot of action and if you read this book you will know what I am talking about.<BR> I would definitely recommend this book to anybody that enjoys a good action book and a good story. I give this book a 9 out of 10 stars on all levels. You need to read this book to know what I am talking about, so just read it.	2002-09-26
US	34897105	R21HS9EVN0GXRK	0803726473	287534538	Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry: Anniversary Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Roll of Thunder, a good book?	Reading the book Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry by Mildred D. Taylor gave me an entirely new outlook on the racism in the south during the thirties.  The book is written from the perspective of Cassie Logan who lives with her family in the deep south on a cotton farm.  She is the only daughter in her family living with three brothers.  Her mother and grandmother take care of the family all year round while her father leaves to work on the railroad in order to pay the taxes on the property and the mortgage for the land.  Cassie and her two brothers go to great faith elementary school where their mother teaches.  The Logan family's main source of problems is the racism that goes on all around them.<br />The Logan's are one of the few black families that own their land in the area.  This offends the racist white families of the area and fuels the racism against the family.  When two of the boys in the neighboring Berry family get accused of harassing some white girls in the area it sparks a brutal attack.  The \\"night men\\" that plague the honest black families come to the Berry's house and burn the two boys and their father with kerosene.  After this horrendous act the family decides to boycott the Wallace's store because they were the white family behind the burning.  By getting most of the black families to do their shopping in Vicksburg they hurt the Wallace's store.  Because of this boycott lots of bad feelings get stirred up in the community and Harlan Granger (a white community leader) decides to make it as hard as possible on the Logan's.<br />The family with some help from Cassie's uncle Hammer pays all of their bills and overcomes the racism of the era.  I am very impressed with pride and willpower of the black people living in the south at that time.  Overcoming such adversary is not an easy accomplishment and I'm sure that the book is an equal representation of the time period.  I can't imagine such ignorance occurring again but if it already happened in a so-called \\"civilized\\" time in our country then I guess anything could happen.<br />I enjoyed the characters and story in the book very much.  It was an eye-opening story about what went on in the south.  I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a good story, meet some interesting characters, and witness the racism of the South first hand.	2002-09-20
US	34897105	RVIKMIPU9M1NM	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Book Review	The story \\"To Kill a Mocking Bird\\" is basically a story about the way of life in a time of suspicion, hatred, poverty, and ignorance. It's about the effect of racism has on a small town from a child's point of view. The town is called Maycomb with \\"grass that grows as tall as a person, roads of dirt, and children with none, sometimes or disgusting eating habits.\\" The main characters are Atticus, Boo Radly, Scout, Jim and Dill. I liked Boo Radly. He stayed hidden for many years.   I don't know if he really did, what the town said he did; that he stabbed his father in the leg with scissors and then pulled it out. Boo placed wax dolls and food in the hollow tree and in exchange received candy from Scout, Jem, and Dill. Atticus the father of the children heads into a major problem as a lawyer defending Tom Robinson who is accused of assault and rape on a town woman.   The children had many difficulties dealing with Ms. Doubtly's craziness from drug use. Seeing their dad being ridiculed by the town as he was trying to achieve justice for Tom Robinson also made their lives more complex.                       <BR>The characters I could relate to were Atticus, Scout, Boo Radly, and Dill. Boo Radly reminded me of events in my life when I was not wanted in places like school and church, Where Boo was stuck in a hole, I felt I was stuck somewhere as well. Just as Atticus stands up for human rights and believes in himself, I stand up for my rights as well as the rights of my friends. Dill is a character that has a wild imagination just like I find myself having a wide variety of ideas.    <BR>My favorite part of the book is when Boo Radly saved Scout and Jem from Bob Edwell. As well, I thoroughly enjoyed the part where Bob Edwell is twisted crimes were exposed and he was killed accidentally.<BR>  For the educational and symbolic idealism the book deserves a medal. The book exposes and illustrates hard reality in a time when people were racist. My least favorite part of the bookwas when Tom Robinson was killed because he was killed by hate. It was as if he was going to die anyway whether a public execution or not. From a student's point of view, I would change the use of the n word so readers don't have to see it.<BR> I would recommend this book to as an insight and perspective on history. The type of person who would like this book would be a person who enjoys reading history, a suspenseful novel, or a person who likes to read about problems in the past.	2002-09-13
US	34897105	R3UDWV2RQ5J5UP	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Book Review	The story \\"To Kill a Mocking Bird\\" is basically a story about the way of life in a time of suspicion, hatred, poverty, and ignorance. It's about the effect of racism has on a small town from a child's point of view. The town is called Maycomb with \\"grass that grows as tall as a person, roads of dirt, and children with none, sometimes or disgusting eating habits.\\" The main characters are Atticus, Boo Radly, Scout, Jim and Dill. I liked Boo Radly. He stayed hidden for many years.   I don't know if he really did, what the town said he did; that he stabbed his father in the leg with scissors and then pulled it out. Boo placed wax dolls and food in the hollow tree and in exchange received candy from Scout, Jem, and Dill. Atticus the father of the children heads into a major problem as a lawyer defending Tom Robinson who is accused of assault and rape on a town woman.   The children had many difficulties dealing with Ms. Doubtly's craziness from drug use. Seeing their dad being ridiculed by the town as he was trying to achieve justice for Tom Robinson also made their lives more complex.                       <BR>The characters I could relate to were Atticus, Scout, Boo Radly, and Dill. Boo Radly reminded me of events in my life when I was not wanted in places like school and church, Where Boo was stuck in a hole, I felt I was stuck somewhere as well. Just as Atticus stands up for human rights and believes in himself, I stand up for my rights as well as the rights of my friends. Dill is a character that has a wild imagination just like I find myself having a wide variety of ideas.    <BR>My favorite part of the book is when Boo Radly saved Scout and Jem from Bob Edwell. As well, I thoroughly enjoyed the part where Bob Edwell is twisted crimes were exposed and he was killed accidentally.<BR>  For the educational and symbolic idealism the book deserves a medal. The book exposes and illustrates hard reality in a time when people were racist. My least favorite part of the bookwas when Tom Robinson was killed because he was killed by hate. It was as if he was going to die anyway whether a public execution or not. From a student's point of view, I would change the use of the n word so readers don't have to see it.<BR> I would recommend this book to as an insight and perspective on history. The type of person who would like this book would be a person who enjoys reading history, a suspenseful novel, or a person who likes to read about problems in the past.	2002-09-13
US	34897105	R19W3Y2JEEFLG7	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fahrenheit 451	The book Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury is an interesting novel filled with lots of hidden meaning and excellent in depth characters.  The story takes place in a futuristic American city where censorship runs wild.  Books are banned and firemen no longer put out fires, in this city they start the fires.  Burning books is a way to control the population and stop people from having original thoughts of their own.  With an overwhelming entertainment industry controlling every aspect of people's lives, the people feel content being ignorant and have a false sense of happiness.  Guy Montag is the main character in the story.  He is a fireman by trade and burns books to stop people from questioning their surroundings and to \\"keep everybody happy.\\"   He never questions his job or his marriage until he meets Clarisse McClellan.  She is a young girl of seventeen and is different from the rest of the people. She questions the world and book burning and this is what starts to sway Montag into questioning his world.  Soon Montag realizes his wife Mildred Montag is just a hollow shell that does not love him, actually she loves nobody and cares only for a family that only exists on television. <BR>           With this realization Mantag sets out to change things if not on a large scale maybe just for himself.  Meeting professor Faber teaches Montag about the meaning and purpose books.  Montag decides to no longer burn books, instead he decides to preserve them.  He does this with the help of some hobo's he meets outside the city after fleeing from prosecution for protecting the written word.  <BR>          Clarisse is a character I can definitely relate to.  Her outlook on life and the small quirks that make us wise and happy are the things she notices instead of the mass entertainment that envelops us all.  By accepting the role of an outcast and continuing her intellectual quest to better the world, she displays her huge will power.  With such will power the majority of the people could find peace in whom they are, instead of always conforming.    <BR>         I enjoyed the meaning of this book but found that the author used far too much symbolism. The imagery hid the plot and story line of the book.  I thoroughly enjoyed the parts where he rebelled against the system, especially the part in which he recites poetry to the hollow beings on television destroying their happiness by shattering what keeps them happy and content.  He used a type of a \\"mirror\\" to show them their terrible faults.  After hearing the poem they realized that their actions have been unforgivable and become consumed by guilt and tears.  If I could, I would increase the action of the story by making Montag act in defiance of the system in more places in the book.  This would give his actions a sense of great accomplishment instead of just another try at what had been tried and failed so many times.  <BR>         This is a good book to teach the value and wealth of knowledge contained in books and arts.  Without literature and the arts we can't record the feeling or motives of the present and the future cannot benefit from the great trials and tribulations that the human spirit endures every second of every day.	2002-09-12
