US	34910292	R2ZJKCC9N4PW2D	0393041638	125161689	Mutiny on the Globe: The Fatal Voyage of Samuel Comstock	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Thou Shalt Not Mutiny	I have read a number of whaling/mutiny/lost at sea books in the last decade or so and was surprised as I trudged through this volume and found that the bits of fact and history were highly peppered with the author's own opinions and interjections. There is a lot of moralizing here, almost sermon like at times, and it completely gets in the way of the story. Heffernan may have been better served writing a novelization of this terrible and bloody event rather than a \\"history\\" as his histrionics many time take center stage. The book isn't terrible. It gets the facts across. But the best part of the book is actually the appendix that presents the actual journal of George Comstock (the mutineer's younger brother) as well as a few other historical tidbits. The story would have been much better served by a telling of the facts without all of the personal insight. I have purchased a copy of \\"Demon of the Waters\\" and am looking forward to a more direct approach to this wild story.	2005-08-17
US	34910292	R2A0NLB6BC43QO	0671798553	628570269	Nevermore	Books	2	4	6	N	N	I shall read Schechter, Nevermore!	O.K. so this little gem of a novel gets two stars instead of the dreaded one star of doom simply because the author was courageous enough to pair up the strangest duo ever to grace the pages of a buddy cop mystery--Edgar Allan Poe and Davy Crockett. Implausable, yes, but potentially entertaining. Heck, the book opens with Poe giving Crockett's autobiography a bad review in the paper and the infamous bar killer showing up at his house to pound him. Now THAT'S good story. But it quickly devolves into a simple murder mystery with Davy stomping around and beating his chest and Poe acting like a simpering, ready-to-faint-at-any-moment Sherlock Holmes. And the prose in which this is all written--let me tell you, the prose will kill you. Narrated by Poe himself, the gothic author apparently thought and spoke in the same flowery and adjective abundant speech that he used in his stories. Mr. Schechter knows that his prose is stilted and mind-numbing and pokes fun at it a few times as Edgar tells something to a simple Bostonian in a hundred words or less, and the poor vicim of his verbage scratches his head and says, \\"What did you say?\\" This is close to clever and close to amusing as a literary device but the device becomes extremely old after about thirty pages and the book is, unfortunately, three hundred pages long. You can sit through reading the King James Bible in Ye Olde English easier than sitting through this mess. And counterpointing the affectation of Poe's word choice is the gosh darn down home Tennessee hillbilly speech of Davy Crockett, making the poles of this book even more extreme and pointing out how ridiculous it truly is. Going from \\"Hark, what be this tintinabulation\\" to \\"Them bells is chimin' somethin' fierce\\" in the same paragraph is, to put it mildly, maddening. Sure, a few Poe fans will relish the many allusions to his work and recognize familiar phrases and descriptions word for word from his poems and stories, but I just thought it made it corny. And I am sure there is some Monday Night Football scholar who is patting himself on the back for making it through this literary masterpiece and thinking it the most high brow thing since Lowenbrau, but fancy words don't make for real lit. Like I said in the opening, this is nothing more than a very odd buddy cop mystery. And it is a bad one at that. After slogging through this stinker, you too may be wondering where you can get some Balm of Gilead to sooth your throbbing head.	2005-07-22
US	34910292	R31MUE24RLH1W2	037550186X	923633349	The Autograph Man: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Please, Give Me a Sign!	This book is almost like watching an episode of \\"The Real World.\\" You follow a semi-interesting person around for a few weeks, watch them experience some amazing highs, some disasterous lows and lots and lots and lots of average ordinary daily humdrum. There is the a fiery girlfriend whom our subject waffles about. There are the odd and sometimes obnoxious friends who try to sound deep and sometimes succeed. There is lots of pot and alcohol to keep life on an even keel, if that is how you have to get by. And there is no real resoultion. Seriously, is the whole Judaic thing supposed to hold this story together? Is there some obscure Kabbalistic point to this mess? It sounds like there is supposed to be. There are hints of it here and there throughout the story. But it doesn't really hold up. At first I thought the book was just quirky, and I like quirky so I kind of got into it. And then there were really great flashes of brilliance in the events and the prose and I was like, \\"Sure, this is a slice of life story about, well, life, belief and the little things that keep us sane and keep us moving,\\" and I got into that too. But then the story just kind of ends with no real resolution to ANY of the major plot points that are left hanging in the wind along with the reader. Seriously, and I will say this again because I hate when authors foist this on an unsuspecting audience, all of the big events leading up to the end that cry out for explanation and resolution and reprecussion are simply dropped. Is this a Zen ending? Actually the book ends where it tells you it is going to end about halfway through, with Alex doing the Kaddish for his dead Chinese father (who never converted to Judaism). The only problem is that Alex tells you over and over again that this ceremony means nothing to him. He doesn't believe in any of it. And through the prose of the final pages, not only does it not continue to mean anything to him, even in the act, but it doesn't even mean much to the audience who are listening to him go through the motions, including three Rabbis. No revelation. No change. Not even a bit of comfort for the road. Just a very flat ending for, as it turns out, a very flat book. The only thing I can figure is that this is some sort of morality play about how little religious belief truly affects our daily lives and who we are as people. In retrospect, it seems like reading this wasn't an uplifting nor a depressing experience. It was simply no experience at all. Hey, maybe that makes it Zen after all.audience who are listening to him go through the motions, including three Rabbis. No revelation. No change. Not even a bit of comfort for the road. Just a very flat ending for, as it turns out, a very flat book. The only thing I can figure is that this is some sort of morality play about how little religious belief truly affects our daily lives and who we are as people. In retrospect, it seems like reading this wasn't an uplifting nor a depressing experience. It was simply no experience at all. Hey, maybe that makes it Zen after all.	2005-07-22
US	34910292	R1KL6HG4B9EKE4	0142000809	376154080	Ex-Libris	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Big Words Disguise a Thin Plot	This isn't a terrible book, in fact the core story is pretty decent for most of the thing, but if you have read any of the best books in the literary mystery genre, you have read this story before. It is one part Club Dumas, one part Name of the Rose and one part pretension. Seriously, to slough through the book, you have to face down a formidable vocabulary of tongue and mind twisting words and many mind boggeling lists of names and books that show the author did mountains of research, but this verbal and historical pomposity doesn't really add anything to the story. Don't get me wrong, I love many of the erudite elements that the author stabbed at (and others like Perez-Reverte have mastered) but in this case, it became very annoying very quickly. The obscure references and go-grab-the-dictionary terms merely pad the story, they don't add to it. If you like the types of books where books play a major role, you may be able to plod through this as I did, but otherwise, read one of the better efforts in the genre. Otherwise, when you reach the \\"trick\\" of the narrative near the end and shake your head at the deux-ex-machina element of the climax, you may become seriously upset at the whole ordeal. I was merely annoyed and wished I hadn't wasted valuable reading hours at the effort.	2005-07-08
US	34910292	R25OZ5XFW9YIYT	0399151850	495037638	The Queen of the South (Perez-Reverte, Arturo)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Why Should I Tell You No When The Answer Is Yes?	Shame on the gaggle of people who pigeonhole an author into one genre and then cry when he expands his horizions. If you are looking for a formula in Arturo Perez-Reverte, you are bound to be sorely disappoined. If you want to read the formulaic crap that most U.S. author's fall into, then go pick up a Patterson or a Grisham. If you detest comfort, tear through Arturo's published works and savor every book as a unique and enticing experience. <br />Queen of the South is certainly no exception to this rule. Here the author departs from what little formula he ever follows and this book reads more like a journalistic effort than a prose work. Perez-Reverte was a reporter in a former life, and this book shows off his skills beautifully. Sometimes it is hard to believe that this story is not a fabrication. It smacks of total authenticity. It is so different from his other works that it may take a while for the reader to settle into the story being told, but it certainly isn't boring or flat. <br />Far from Teresita being a character that a reader can't connect with and empathize with and find themselves in, I found her to be extremely believeable. From the moment her drug running boyfriend is killed and she is forced to run for her life, she is a lost soul. And she does the things that she has to do to survive, that are necessary, good, bad and ugly. So she never really finds herself. She remains, in effect, a lost soul. So she doesn't have this wonderful epiphany that turns all things right again. So what? Some of us, after being confronted with \\"The Situation\\" never do. Far from making her actions and reactions inauthentic, they seem to make them all the more real. One of the complaints about the author in the past has been a certain weakness in his portrayal of female characters, but Perez-Reverte has proven with this tale that these allegations have been totally unfounded. <br />In the past, the author's books have been driven by beautiful language and technical mastery of a specific subject--fencing, sailing, bookmaking, etc. But one of the joys of this tale is that, although it does delve with some depth into the drug trade, the story is totally character and conversation driven. Some of the beautiful language and turn of phrase that he is known for certainly exists here and there are some wonderful poetic moments, but they all come out of the mouths of characters rather than flowery prose. It is the people in this book, rather than the chosen topic of the novel, that is captivating. The characters of Theresa herself and Pinto, the hitman turned bodyguard, are especially well fleshed out. <br />I'm sorry if you don't agree. I'm sorry if all of the action and journalistic tone and the massive amounts of character interaction turned you off to this story. But if you haven't done so yet, finish the book. If you don't you will miss one of the biggest payoffs in recent literature. The last forty pages are some of the most heart stopping passages you will ever be subjected to. There isn't a Hollywood ending tacked on here. The events that take place are fully foreshadowed in the tone and theme of the book. But, man, are they extremely exciting and extremely gripping and extremely satisfying. Shame on you if you miss it.	2005-06-06
US	34910292	RX0HB37JWAF3F	0765341255	977079892	The Man Who Killed His Brother	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Strange Brew	Part of the genius of this hard boiled detective book is that its author is so well known for another genre (fantasy/sci-fi) that one may expect this to be the adventures of Tom Covenant, private dick, but it absolutely isn't. Other than having the hero with a tragic flaw (this time being an alcoholic rather than a leper), this book is so different in style and substance than Donaldson's other works that it could have been written by another author. Very grim. Very hard boiled. Very decent detective story. Very angst ridden. And very good. Axebrewer starts the book in the throes of his alcoholism, a malady so bad that he once accidentaly killed his brother while under the influence, but when his brother's little girl is kidnapped and slated for murder, he must claw his way up through the pain of sobriety to track down her abductor. Come at this looking for good crime noir rather than a detective book by a fanatsy writer and you won't be disappointed. My closest comparison is Andrew Vachss, which I consider very high praise indeed.	2005-03-14
US	34910292	R32LY1YAWXNUWW	0374218994	283750903	The Napoleon of Crime: The Life and Times of Adam Worth, Master Thief	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Elementary, Dear Adam	This book provides a fascinating portrait of one of the last of the gentleman criminals. In fact, Adam Worth wanted to be known solely as a gentleman rather than as a notorious criminal. The crimes were simply his way of gaining power and prestige in a Victorian world where he could never gain this position without buying it. And buy it he did by perpetrating almost every crime imaginable. An honorable thief who was fiercly loyal to his henchmen, Worth was devilishly clever, many times carrying out operations right out in the open without being caught. No wonder Doyle tapped him for Sherlock Holmes' arch-rival and Elliot immortalized him as Macavity, the Mystery Cat. Not bad for a guy who officially \\"died\\" in the Civil War at the 2nd Battle of Bull Run (reports of his death were greatly exaggerated--and he used his deceased status for financial gain, thus beginning his very lucrative criminal career). <br />Much of the book is taken up with his most famous crime, the stealing the \\"Duchess of Devonshire\\" by Gainsborough mere weeks after it was sold at the highest price ever paid for a painting up to that time. For a crime that was almost done on a whim, it is the one for which he is most well known and for which he was never caught (he returned the painting 25 years later anonymously). <br />Two very nice sub-themes run throughout the book. First was his undying love for his best friend's wife, Kitty Flynn. Flynn went on from humble beginnings (and after dropping he thieving hubby) to become a true Victorian lady of note, but Worth never dropped the torch he held for her (he was probably the father of two of her children). <br />The second was his friendship with William Pinkerton later in life. Born of mutual respect for each other throughout their careers as antagonists, Pinkerton not only did not volunteer evidence that could have condemned Worth to life in prison after he was caught and exposed, but also brokered the return of the Duchess while keeping Worth anonymous. Pinkerton mourned Worth when he died and kept a promise to watch out for his children by bringing his son into the detective agency, an ironic legacy for the Napoleon of Crime. <br />Fascinating stuff. Truly stranger than fiction.	2005-03-14
US	34910292	R2LWV65M2RPQBB	0375822313	339262282	Close to Shore: The Terrifying Shark Attacks of 1916 (Bccb Blue Ribbon Nonfiction Book Award (Awards))	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Too Many Nibbles and Not Enough Bite!	Maybe it's just me, but I found this book to be extremely frusterating at times. Full of too much historical detail, which the author tells you in the beginning of the book is spot on journalism down to the dialogue of the participants, you have to wade through page after page and chapter after chapter of local color and scenery to find out what happened on the New Jersey shore in that fateful Summer of 1916. The writing style is conversational and more along the lines of a novel than an historical account, but the first shark attack doesn't show up until somewhere around page ninety at which point you are fed up with descriptions of seaside hotels and changing Victorian bathing suit hemlines and morbidly hope that the shark is about to chomp on somebody soon. There are also chapters from the shark's point of view which, while full of scientific detail of the animal, ring a little false as I'm pretty sure this shark never sat down for an interview as to his methods and motives. One of the author's nastiest tricks is to introduce you to a character in depth and detail from infancy all the way up to the point where they jump into the water for a long distance swim and then, just when you are sure that the prototype to Jaws will strike, they swim safely to shore and go for a coctail on the verenda. The shark attacks that do happen are presented in a gripping and suspensful fashion, but just know you will be wading through another fifty or so pages until the shark surfaces again. The whole account was just a tad too padded and repetative for my tastes. The book could have been half as long and twice as good.	2004-07-25
US	34910292	R39S2AA11YQ4RV	0679601325	7235858	The Poetry and Short Stories of Dorothy Parker (Modern Library)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Words that Cut Like Diamonds and are Twice as Pretty	Here you have it, all of the wit and charm of Dorothy Parker in one neat compact volume. The poems, many of which I had read before, are brilliant and stunning, having the punch of an O. Henry story in one or two little pages. The short stories, of which I had read exactly none before I picked up this book, are, incredibly, just as good as her verses. Full of the pathos and drama of a wide variety of domestic experience, these prose gems are brimming with smart and realistic dialogue seldom found in any medium. Some of the best tales are simply inner monologues of a woman doing ordinary things like waiting for the man she adores to call her on the phone or dancing with a clog footed bore who keeps kicking her in the shins. These pieces are so well done and so dead on that they would make great audition pieces for budding actresses to impress a casting agent with. Much has been made of Dorothy Parker's unhappiness and self destructive behavior, but despite, or possibly because of, her abject misery, the lady could put pen to paper. Her work, much more than her biography, is what should stand the test of time. If you like this book and simply have to have more, you should also pick up &quot;Not Much Fun: The Lost Poems of Dorothy Parker&quot; compiled by Stuart Silverstein and collecting, many for the first time, the poems that Dottie wasn't that fond of--they are brilliant as well.	2004-07-22
US	34910292	R2Y5S0RWONPB57	0684818558	763846067	NOT MUCH FUN: The Lost Poems of Dorothy Parker	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Dottie Didn't Like Them, But I Sure Do!	How we live in a world where this book was at one time remaindered and now out of print is simply beyond me. Dorothy Parker is not only one of the finest poets who ever ran pen across page, but a wit and a charm as well. This collection of works that fell through the cracks (mostly because Dottie didn't like them) is a gem fit for anyone's library. The obligatory biography is peppered with footnotes of a more informal and personal nature, giving many of her scathing witticisms in given situations. The verses collected are also quite good, even though viewed as rejects by the author. Scathing, sarcastic, brilliant and at times, very personal, your Dorothy Parker collection isn't complete without them. The conclusion of the book are the &quot;Hymns of Hate&quot; not collected anywhere else and are wildly funny and pertinent even in our modern world. Don't miss this fun and fine book which has, hopefully, not seen its last visit to the printing press.	2004-07-22
US	34910292	R2AQNXEL29AA1N	0064408639	488122738	The Austere Academy (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 5)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Will the Real Lemony Snicket Please Stand Up!	I am surprised and saddened to report that on reading books one through five of the Unfortunate Events series, I have discovered with this volume that Lemony Snicket is a fraud, \\"fraud\\" here meaning that there is more than one author passing themselves off as the cranky curmudgeon who writes these books. Part of the appeal of the Snicket books is that the author is sort of anonymous but at least sort of the same person. I was amazed to learn as an adult that there was no Franklin W. Dixon who wrote the Hardy Boys books of my youth, but rather a series of writers ghosting as the ficticious author. But surely, I thought, Lemony is gonna be one fellow all the way through. And then we get to the Austere Academy which blew that theory all to pieces. <BR>The tone of the book is much different than the previous volumes. Granted, horrible things still happen to our unfortunate orphans, and the style tries to mimic the first books, but the word usage and sentence structure and style is, at times, wildly different. In a way, the writing is much more adult in the way it is presented. The first four books played pretty loose and were very conversational between author and reader, as if Lemony were telling a terrible story to a younger group of children. They also explained things and expounded on ideas that may be new to a younger reader. The Austere Academy, however, is a much more straightforward young adult novel in approach and becomes stilted when it tries to be conversational. The choice of words, phrases and concepts used are sometimes surprisingly more mature and advanced as if written by a person used to dealing with an older audience. One of the key elements of the series, defining larger words in an informative and humorous way, is very different as simple words and concepts are expounded upon, and larger words, like \\"tyrannical,\\" pop up and are passed over as normal parts of childhood speech. The characters are essentially the same, but in a very rote way. Sunny, the baby of the bunch, is especially different as the second author has her think and act much older than she should be able to. Her four sharp teeth, unlike the first books, play almost no part as the writer seems to forget that she has a tendancy to bite everything in sight. Her speech, always garbled, was almost always expounded upon in the first books giving a meaning to what she has tried to say, but in the Academy, she just blurts out odd words and the story just keeps on going much of the time. Count Olaf, too, is sort of downplayed as he is but one of a number of sinister figures that wreck the orphan's lives rather than the evil mastermind who is waiting around every corner. I could go on, but you get the point. <BR>This book isn't bad, in fact it is a decent story, but it is more of a straightforward (and a trifle bland) version of the unfortunate events depicted. Much of the wit, lunacy and charm of the earlier volumes is severely lacking. So either Lemony Snicket is more than one writer (which I suspect), or between the fourth and fifth books, somebody started slipping him some Prozac to even him out.<BR>Oh, the book would only get two stars, but it redeems itself by introducing the term \\"Cakesniffer\\" into the English language.	2004-05-25
US	34910292	R334FQGTP7BNRV	0785113649	581597006	Essential Punisher Volume 1 TPB (Essentials)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Black and white and read all over!	Hey, how in the world am I reading BAD reviews for one of the best \\"Essential\\" volumes Marvel has put out. We are talking about \\"The Punisher,\\" folks. One of the reasons that this collection is so good and so \\"essential\\" is because it would cost you upwards of $500.00 to put together all of these issues in their original format. Plus you have the advantage of reading all of the first Punisher appearances in chronological order, and you don't have to track down obscure volumes from five or six different series to do it. Sure, the other \\"Essential\\" volumes are great with their twenty or so issues of continuity from one series, but this volume is cool because it pulls it all together for you. I hope Marvel does a few more character oriented books in this series (like Bullseye for instance). <BR>   And you can poo poo the art and the stories all you want, but the stories collected here are simply chock full of Bronze Age goodness. Some people have gotten a little too used to the Punisher being ripped from his Marvel Universe roots into a bizzaro \\"Preacher World\\" by a marginally talented creative team. If you like the current incarnation of the character running in comics, you may not like this book because it isn't full of exploding heads, hit men with breasts and all the other forms of shock jock stupidity that have devalued the character over the past few years. If, like me, you remember a time when the Punisher was a single-minded psychopath on a mission fit for a crusader (not to mention the baddest anti-hero on the block) rather than simply a sadistic jerk, you will probably enjoy this book as well.<BR>   The black and white reproduction in this volume is much better than some of the other \\"Essential\\" books. There aren't any pages that look like the copier was running out of toner. Some of the material is a reprint of a reprint (copied from Marvel Tales rather than the original Amazing Spider-Man story), but it still looks good.  The writing ranges from standard 70's goofiness to the genius of Frank Miller, but every story is enjoyable in it own right. The art is solid in most of the volume with only a few issues looking genuinely bad (but what do you expect from Peter Parker, Spectacular Spider-Man). On the other hand, the Miller and Janson material as well as the Zeck and Beatty stuff looks great, even in a colorless format. This book is so worth the money, not only because it puts The Punisher into an historical perspective in comics, but because it is a throwback to the days when comics were still a little bit fun.<BR>   In order of appearance, this volume reprints: Amazing Spider-Man (ASM) #129 (1st appearance where he is duped by the Jackal into trying to kill Spider-Man); ASM #134 and 135 (vs. Tarantula); Giant Sized Spider-Man #4 (vs. Moses Magnum--later an X-Men villain); Marvel Preview #2 and Marvel Super Action #1 (both magazine sized soldier-of-fortune style anthology comics and some of the rarer material presented here); ASM #161 and 162 (1st appearance of the villain Jigsaw and also featuring Nightcrawler of the X-Men with a brief appearance by Wolverine); ASM #174 and 175 (vs. the Hitman); Captain America #241; ASM #201 and 202; ASM Annual #15 (by Denny O'Neil, Frank Miller and Klaus Janson; vs. Doctor Octopus and a milestone in the evolution of the Punisher character); Daredevil #182-184 (by Roger McKenzie, Frank Miller and Klaus Janson; #182 has been edited down to 8 pages, eliminating the non-Puniser part of the story; These issues were pushed back a year originally because the Comics Code Authority didn't like the strong drug issues raised in the story); Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man #81-83 (vs. the Kingpin and featuring Cloak and Dagger-yippeee! The weakest material in the book); Finally the Punisher Mini-Series (sometimes referred to as \\"Circle of Blood\\") #1-5 (This is, for the most part, by Steven Grant, Mike Zeck and John Beatty and is the definitive Punisher story catapulting him into the limelight as one of Marvel's premiere characters; This is the mini-series that couldn't decide where to end as issues #1, 3 and 4 say it is a 4 issue mini-series and issues 2 and, obviously, 5 call it a 5 issue run with the last issue having a different creative team); Oh, yeah, there are a few pin-ups and a Who's Who entry as well.	2004-05-18
US	34910292	RR77FO842HXOZ	0812510216	293159351	The Uncanny X-Men	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Pocket Sized X-Men	This book is a black and white X-Men reprint volume in pocketbook format. The 3 comics presented have been chopped up so that there are 2 to 4 panels per page. The reprint quality is decent and the story flows fine, even with the material broken down into a smaller format. The cover is a little misleading (as are many comic covers) in that it depicts a scene from the Phoenix Saga, when the comics inside have nothing to do with that story. The stories included are: Uncanny X-Men #110 by Chris Claremont and Tony DeZuniga and Uncanny X-Men #123 and 124 by Chris Claremont, John Byrne and Terry Austin. The last two stories are part of the classic Claremont/Byrne run and feature the X-Men being captured by Arcade who deposits them in Murderworld from which they must escape or die. Spider-Man makes a quick appearance as well. I find it interesting that Uncanny #110 was reprinted here as it was a fill in issue in the original series and the Classic X-Men re-print series skipped it altogether. It isn't a very good story featuring a goofy villian named Warhawk in his only appearance trying to break into X-Mansion to kill the X-Men. The thing that makes this issue unique (and a bit of a continuity buster) is that back in the early days of the &quot;New X-Men,&quot; Claremont has said that Wolverine's claws were never meant to be part of his body. On the next to last panel of this issue, Logan is clearly wearing some sort of wrist gauntlet from which the claws are emerging. The subsequent issues of the monthly comic quickly determined that the claws were, in fact, part of Wolvie's body, but here in this fill-in issue, somebody goofed and it is the only place he is shown as having external claws. Thus endeth the comic book geek lesson.	2004-05-16
US	34910292	R4RIUWOL1IG4G	0806972505	446929236	The Weird and Wondrous World of Patents	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Weird and Wonderful World of Invention	This is an interesting and unique look into the world of invention. The book is basically a number of items for which people have acquired patents from the ridiculous to the...well, ridiculous. Each invention is illustrated with a description of what the item does as well as the number and year of the patent. Not exactly on par with Edison or Franklin, this book includes patents for such things as eye protectors for chickens, a self-saluting hat (for which no hands are required), a device for producing dimples and even a hollow cow to be used by hunters to get closer to their prey. This is a fascinating piece on discovery and the drive to make a buck by any means necessary. The only reason it doesn't get a fifth star is due to the fact that with only one or two products displayed per page, the book reads a little too quickly. I wish it were twice as long.	2004-04-25
US	34910292	R3714XE5GHTS0O	0671025538	686676835	The Titanic Disaster Hearings: the Official Transcripts of the 1912 US Senate Investigation	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Unsinkable and Unthinkable! The Senate Investigates Titanic!	This is the Titanic book you are looking for. Far from being one of the many novelizations or non-fiction novel type history reports, this is testimony straight from the survivor's mouths about what happened the night disaster struck. We are all familiar with C-Span senate hearings of the past few decades, but this is one of the interesting ones condensed into an exciting and informative volume. Questioning began mere days after the accident as the Carpathia pulled into New York with the few souls who made it. Even the slightly repetative nature of the senator's questions from person to person revealed a new fact or two about the sinking of the unsinkable ship.<BR>For those whose knowledge of the Titanic comes mostly from James Cameron, this volume is a wealth of first hand information that didn't get covered in the blockbuster film. Most shocking was that the ship, the Californian, was within sight of the Titanic and saw her distress rockets but didn't come to her aid, even though they could have gotten there before the ship sank. This volume also covers other interesting aspects of the case like the yellow journalism practiced as papers vied for exclusive rights to stories, Bruce Ismay trying to get everyone on a ship back to England before they could be questioned in America and The Wall Street Journal giving false reports that Titanic was fine so that certain stocks didn't plummet. Many of the controversial aspects of the case are addressed to a satisfactory degree, but you can see some pat answers and bet hedging in some of the testimony. <BR>Fascinating Stuff!	2004-04-06
US	34910292	R1CELV1Y2FZJJM	0689105932	213128839	A Cry of Angels	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Cry For Readers!	How this, what should be a literary classic, slipped through the cracks, I will never know. Distribution maybe? My wife gave me this book to read about 13 years ago back when we were both wide eyed college students bound to change the world (and before she was my wife, as well). It was one of her favorites, but it still took me a few years to get around reading to it. When I finally devored the piece, I kicked myself for not reading it sooner. The only copy I have ever run across (and, mind you, I work in a used book store) is the battered old paperback my wife and I have shared for the last decade plus. What should be a standard book for kids to read in school and as common as dirt cannot be found anywhere. But you OWE it to yourself to track a copy down. Amazon has a number of copies for sale and it will be money well spent, believe me. I am not even a fan of southern lit and this book blew me away with its fully realized characters and gripping plot. It is JUST AS GOOD (and this is saying quite a bit) as the book it reminded me of the closest, &quot;To Kill A Mockingbird.&quot; Mockingbird is everywhere, including a great movie, but Cry of Angels has (at this point) less than 10 reviews on Amazon. I just don't get it. This is the classic you have never read, so pick it up and add a positive review of your own. You will. Trust me!	2004-03-14
US	34910292	R1JKBVPR4TJ1Q3	0767908260	61094722	The Island of Lost Maps: A True Story of Cartographic Crime	Books	2	2	4	N	N	About as Bland as a Local Road Map	I must agree with many of the reviews posted here already. This book was a little hard to slough through as it is not so much a journey as a random wandering. In claiming to tell the story of a notorious map thief (whom, the author admits very early on, wouldn't even give him an interview for this work), the book bumps around, pinball fashion, talking about history, cartography, librarians and whatever else seemed to be on the author's mind at the moment. An outline may have helped. Focusing on presenting the material in an orderly fashion may have helped. Cutting about 100 pages may have helped immensly. Sticking to a the main theme of the work may have been of great benefit to the reader (other than the &quot;how he got caught&quot; story, the profile of Bland doesn't begin until almost 200 pages into the work). This isn't a bad book. It just suffers from lack of focus and can be very frusterating reading at times. If you are interested in cartography, maybe give this a try. If you are a casual observer interested in Bland's crimes, good luck finding the well hidden pertinant material. This book just seemed to bear too much of a resemblence to a college thesis with too shallow a premise that had to be padded to fill the required pages.	2004-03-08
US	34910292	REHE2051XUH0Y	0786865199	435232065	The Soul Bird	Books	1	1	15	N	N	Chicken Soup for the Soulless	You are kidding me, right! This schmarmy, simplistic (and very short ...) book that reads like Jonathan Livingston Seagull Jr. is just ripe for ridicule. This book definitely made me open my \\"angry drawer\\" because I was duped into reading it. If this book changes your life, you may want to seriously think about getting one.	2004-01-14
US	34910292	R29VM8EIEVHCOL	0765302241	289518155	The Return of Santiago	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Who is Santiago?!?	Following up one of the best sci-fi adventure novels ever written, especially after such a lengthy absence, shows a lot of courage on Mike Resnick's part. Lucas didn't learn his lesson with Star Wars, and I was afraid that Mike might drop a bomb with the Return of Santiago. Thankfully he didn't. That isn't to say that the book doesn't have its problems, especially in comparison to the first novel, but at least it is a decent read.<BR>   The thing I liked the most about the book is that it is not what I expected it to be. What I expected was the further adventures of Santiago and Moonripple (and secretly, I still wish Return WAS that story as I thought Moonripple was fascinating). I truly expected the sequel to pick up right where the first book left off. Instead, Resnick shoots us into the future a hundred years after Santiago's death and begins his story in the heart of the Democracy with a small time crook named Danny Briggs. Danny is hiding from the police in the house of a family off on vacation when he finds the original manuscript of Black Orpheus, the poet of the Inner Frontier. In poring over the poem, he realizes that the part of Santiago had been played by more than one person and, ironically, the king of the outlaws had really been a champion of the rights of the people against the Democracy. In a moment of self revelation, Danny decides to move to the inner frontier, change his name to Dante and continue Orpheus' saga. To write such a poem, however, he needs a central figure, and only one will do--Santiago. Since one does not exist at the time, Danny and his rapidly growing circle of new companions on the Frontier decide to find and recruit one. The universe may need a man like Santiago, but how do you go about recreating a myth for modern times. Dante and his friends soon find it isn't as easy as it seems. Great spin on an interesting concept and a good sci-fi read.<BR>   I do have some reservations about the work, though. No matter how bad you want itto be, it isn't the original by a long shot. The pacing isn't as crisp, the story isn't as tight and the writing style just doesn't have the edge the first book possessed. The characters, while still colorful with interesting names, aren't nearly as memorable as the ones in the first work (and many are downright forgettable). The story is clever, but absent of surprise and if you didn't see the ending coming a mile away, well, I just don't see how you could miss it. There is just something missing here that was present in the original work and I'm not sure what it is. Void of the snappy patter and the absorbing moments and the breakneck plot pace, this book just seemed much more tame. There is also, and this annoyed me to no end, a moral to the story which Resnick pounds pretty heavily throughout the book. There is a definite preachy quality about good men standing up and being counted...if not you, whom...if not now, when...the ultimate evil is when good men stand by and do nothing...etc...etc. A little too much of the real world and the current global political situation seeps into this, what is supposed to be, fantasy work. The original book had an adventuresome Robin Hood morality to it that worked very well without beating you over the head with anything. Many times in some of the heavier handed passages, I saw the author's views intruding negatively into this work. Mike could have been a bit more subtle here.<BR>   Anyway, this is a decent book. It isn't great as some claim, and it isn't bad like some feared. It is a decent sequel as sequels go, and unlike the original work, this one definitely leaves the door open for a sequel of its own.	2004-01-13
US	34910292	RY0BU6ZLE3EK8	0060645814	282616666	God's Joyful Surprise: Finding Yourself Loved	Books	1	38	207	N	N	What Would Sue Monk Kidd Do?	So tell me why you would ever want to read a Christian inspirational book by a lady who ultimately decided that Jesus was a bunch of hooey and became some new age goddess huckster? Even with all of the books she wrote and wisdom she dispensed in the Christian arena, it didn't work for her and she turned her back on it. Therefore, anything she has to say on the subject of living a Christian life is just so much hot air. She couldn't do it herself and following her advice may take one down the same path of abandoning their Savior. One day she will get to look Jesus in the eye and explain to Him where she thinks He did her wrong!	2004-01-10
US	34910292	R2G89XYIAGWB8E	034543014X	544398776	The Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure (The 25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Anybody Want a Peanut?!	With over 500 reviews already on the board, there is probably very little to be added in praise for this wonderful book, so  I will try and keep it short. <BR>This is one of the ten best books written in the twentieth century. You may think such a brash and monumental statement to be somewhat inconceivable, but it is true. There have been few books better in the last hundred years. <BR>This book has one of the best plot devices ever conceived (an abridgment of an older, and entirely fictitious, work allowing the author to interject himself into the story at will), one of the best romantic speeches ever written (Buttercup to Westley pgs. 51-52), one of the best and cathartic action sequences ever penned (Inigo vs. Count Rugen with that amazing &quot;My name is Inigo Montoya...&quot; line for punctuation), one of the best concluding lines of any novel ever (I'm not giving it away...you'll have to get to it for yourself) and, finally, one of the most quotable and heartrendingly true quotes ever put down on paper, &quot;Life is pain, anybody that says differently is selling something.&quot; (Spoken by Westley to Buttercup in the movie, but by Fezzik's mother to her gigantic son in the book).<BR>Somewhere along the way we all grow up and lose that innocence childhood affords. The myths give way to harsh reality and the fantasy is buried by the real world. The genius of &quot;The Princess Bride&quot; is in acknowledging this fact rather than glossing over it and moving on through to the other side. And it does so in such an engaging and entertaining way that a little bit of that wonder is returned, even in the midst of the darkest fire swamp. So if you, like many of your fellow wanderers on this earth, find yourself mostly dead, you owe it to yourself to read or re-read this marvel of modern literature and regain a little spark of laughter and life so precious in these precarious times.<BR>As a last note, the 25th anniversary book contains new material that you missed thefirst time around and is just as sensational as the original book itself.<BR>Like I said in the opening, one of the ten best books...And I Mean It...	2003-12-29
US	34910292	RWHTGX8I36FZH	0863160174	685031030	Ireland for Beginners	Books	2	1	1	N	N	A Less Than Comical History Lesson	This is as close to a multi-media experience as you will find in a book. The authors use text, comics, photos and reproductions of art to tell the hard and heroic history of the Irish people. The comic or picture format, which usually provides a good medium for communication and teaching, here seems a detriment rather than an asset. The layout of the pictures and text on the page really chop the material up so at times you are not sure what to read next. The history itself jumps forward very quickly both in time and with characters and everything is touched on with such a brief overview that I found it very hard, not only to keep up, but also to retain what I had just read. Being a die hard comic fan, I thought this would be a great way to digest the highlights of Irish history. Instead I got frusterated and bogged down quickly with the format. Maybe this is the way some folks assimilate historical information, but with names, dates and events flying around in such a random pattern on the page, I don't think I got very much out of this sensory assault. Clever idea, bad execution.	2003-12-24
US	34910292	R7CKFWDVDLD7Z	1563050757	99692800	The Boomer Bible	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Stunning Testament of the Modern World	This book is an absolute monster. It is a satiric and unforgiving scalpel that cuts to the heart of our modern and every-man-for himself society. Plus it is uproariously funny, which may help get you through 700 pages of text.<BR>On the down side, a bit of the material seems a little dated. The evils of corporate America, the attitude of blaming everyone but yourself and the concept of drowning your troubles with &quot;Consolation&quot; (read cocaine) seems more in line with the whole 80's Miami Vice Michael Douglas &quot;Wall Street&quot; mentality that has become pass as it has become something of the norm in our modern world. There is also quite a hefty bit of repetition, especially as you move into the four gospels of Harry that all tell the same story with very few new facts. Even when the book gets bogged down, however, it is still a grand and stunning work of social commentary that some may loathe but all will recognize. <BR>So what is the Boomer Bible exactly. Well it is NOT a parody of Christianity. It simply uses the format of the Bible to preach the things that have replaced traditional religion and morality as the world races headlong to the atomic Apocalypse that Laird envisions is coming soon. <BR>The Old Testament Pentatuch portion is a history of the world, nation by nation, from ancient times to present day. These little history lessons are terribly politically incorrect using terms many will find offensive, but they also cut to the chase with unforgiving satire and brutal wit. These little histories are also stunningly direct and accurate in their portrayal of every nation's bid for becoming the Most Chosen Nation on Earth. This is the funniest part of the Boomer Bible and also the one that still rings the most true. <BR>The Poetic Books that parody Psalms and Proverbs poke fun at all of the mindless entertainments mankind bothers themselves with from poetry and literature all the way down to television. <BR>The Prophetic Books are direct messagesto major historical persons telling them what their work will amount to, but assuring them that there will come a man who will tell everybody exactly the way that it is and make everything O.K. <BR>This leads into the New Testament which begins with the four gospels of a guy named Harry who happens upon the message that all of mankind needs and which he begins spreading with a vengeance. That is until he is arrested for dealing in coke which helps all of his little Harriers not think about anything which is exactly what they should be doing if they are going to follow the way of Harry. <BR>The Epistles are messages from Harry's core followers to different segments of the population telling them how to best employ the message of Harry into their lives. <BR>There is even a Revelation type book concluding the main body of the work delivered as the last words of Harry's dying father who has been consigned to a nursing home by his uncaring sons to perish tired and alone. After the lengthy and repetitive nature of the New Testament portion, this final period to the work is an insightful and bittersweet heartbreak punctuating how far humanity has devolved from simply functioning as decent human beings.<BR>The last segment is liturgy set up like the Book of Common Prayer helping you in your celebration and following of the ways of Harry.<BR>Like I said, this book is a monster. The humor will hook you as you thumb through the book and find funny line after funny line. On a thorough reading, however, it will cut you to the bone as you recognize the state of the world we have all had a hand in making. It may be too late to change anything until the big one drops, but the Boomer Bible makes you do exactly the opposite of what Harry tells you to do--it makes you seriously think about it.	2003-12-21
US	34910292	R2JMPD5F0185FX	0380807718	434416998	It Seemed Like a Good Idea...: A Compendium Of Great Historical Fiascoes	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Interesting but a Tad Repetetive	I love and have read a number of books of this sort, and while not being a bad example of the short article fact book format, it did tend to get a little repetetive. The three to four page segments are written by different people so some of the pieces tend to overlap with the same information from one segment to the next. Also, I had read most of the &quot;good idea turned bad&quot; information in other books of this type (usually with more conciseness) so there weren't many surprises. <BR>The reading is quick and light and fun, so if you aren't familiar with the &quot;this is what REALLY happened&quot; branch of literature, you may enjoy this quite a bit. Otherwise, I would suggest one stick with broader and more interesting works like &quot;An Underground Education&quot; by Richard Zacks which covers a number of the same points found in this work as well as branching out into many other arenas of human stupidity.	2003-12-14
US	34910292	RV5R9EFE5ZGTH	0871351722	508003420	Daredevil: Love and War (Marvel Graphic Novel)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Miller's Lost Daredevil Masterpiece	This is the Miller Daredevil story that got away. Coming out around the same time as Miller was knocking the socks off of the comic world with the \\"Born Again\\" story in the funny book format, this oversize graphic novel slipped under many radars. Like many of Marvel's graphic novel series, this is part of the main character's continuity and follows up on events of Miller's 1st run of DD.<br />The story actually centers around the Kingpin and his handicapped wife Vanessa. Way back in the old comic run, Vanessa was apparently killed off but survived by taking to the sewers where she was enslaved by a grotesque underground king who ruled over a band of tunnel dwellers. By the time Daredevil intervened and returned his archenemy's wife back home, Vanessa's mind was all but gone. In the \\"Love and War\\" story, Kingpin is seeking help for his poor wife, and in his typical heavy handed way, he kidnaps the beautiful (and blind) wife of a famed psychologist to \\"persuade\\" the good doctor into helping Vanessa recuperate. The real problem comes in that the Kingpin's henchman for the kidnapping is a truly psychotic and delusional killer who begins to have conflicting fantasies about his lovely victim. The clock is ticking for Daredevil to rescue both the damsel in distress from the psycho and the good doctor from the clutches of the Kingpin before everything hits the fan. Oh, and Turk is along for the ride to offer a little bit of much needed comic relief. Although the story sounds rather simple, it is a pretty intense examination of the true nature of love and the terrible power of obsession. Miller puts one more notch on his billy club with this fantastic tale.<br />Because the story is drama and character driven more than action packed, Sienkiewicz's fully painted art plays beautifully in the oversize format. This is much cleaner and visually beautiful than his work on Elektra Assassin which he also did with Miller. The panels are larger and there are quite a few full page illustrations that showcase what Bill can do with a brush. The storytelling is also much tighter, driving you through one breathtaking page after the next.<br />If you are a fan of Miller's work on Daredevil, and are not familiar with this book, you owe it to yourself to pick it up. You won't be disappointed.	2003-12-14
US	34910292	R35ARTMVSD4YRD	0871353091	902264744	Elektra: Assassin (Marvel's Finest)	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Full of Too Much Wind...Like The Air!	You won't find a much bigger fan of Miller anywhere as his Daredevil work got me into comics in the early 80's and has kept me in comics for the past two decades. But frankly (sorry, couldn't resist), there are aspects of this large and sprawling story that are simply a mess. Sure it is innovative and its groundbreaking storytelling style is STILL being copied in current Daredevil comics today (thanks mostly to David Mack). Sure it turned a lot of heads in its day as nobody had ever seen anything quite like it. Sure it was courageous to take Elektra totally out of Daredevil's world and establish her as the baddest assassin on the block, especially in a no-holds barred mature reader format. Sure it was chock full of social commentary, psychological insight, sexual tension and political satire. BUT...it all adds up to simply a decent rather than a great read.<BR>There are just too many things that bog this story down. The worst has to be that this was originally done in an eight issue format so there are a number of recap pages in this story telling you things you have already read. What's worse, this is usually done as military type briefings or reports on pages with tons of tiny panels that you have already seen with copious amounts of text telling you things you already know. It was annoying when I read it in the comic format back in '86 and it really brings the story to a grinding halt in this collected volume. The art by Sienkiewicz is inconsistent (which was a planned feature of the story) going from beautiful and detailed to crude child's scribbling at times which is not only disconcerting, but it seemed to get much more arbitrary as the story went on. In the early chapters, this choppy art style is very well done and moves the story along nicely, but in the latter portion of the book, it seems to have no other purpose than to follow the art style that had already been established. Finally, while the first part of the tale is very verbose with lots of intricatepanel work, the end of the story has very little text with huge splash pages of very simple art. While some may argue that this was to depict the doom of the atomic apocalypse that the story was moving towards, if you really stop and look at it, it appears that Frank and Bill were trying to fill pages to finish out their eight issues of comic.<BR>While I have many gripes with this work and place it very low on my list of Frank Miller output, I cannot deny that the core story and concepts are very good. There are amazing sequences in this work that are some of the best comics I have ever read. When Garrett is sitting at his computer researching Elektra's history and suddenly realizes she may be in the room...man, I have never seen anything like that simple sequence. My big problem is that this intricate little story is burdened and complicated by too much extra material that chops up the flow. If this were edited down to its basic story, keeping the innovation, but cutting out all of the extraneous stuff, I would certainly be writing a different review.	2003-12-14
US	34910292	R3J01CV4XJ5V0A	0785107576	705344768	Daredevil Visionaries - Frank Miller, Vol. 1	Books	5	29	31	N	N	From Humble Beginnings--Comic History Was Made!	Five stars for this collection of very decent Daredevil stories is more a tip of the hat to an historic moment in comic history than it is to the actual contents. Without the work of Frank Miller represented in this exact book, you would never have seen a Daredevil movie, guaranteed! For a few years before Miller took over the art chores of the Daredevil comic back in the very late 70's, it was a second tier (maybe third) Marvel title and was on the verge of imminent cancellation. The stories and villains had been so lame for so long that the book was on sale bi-monthly and was ready for the ax. That is, until Marvel gave a promising young artist named Frank Miller a shot at the title and it quickly turned into the (STILL) heavyweight champion of comics. It simply doesn't get much better than Frank Miller's work on Daredevil.<BR>This collection features Miller as an artist rather than a writer as his own stories don't appear until Visionaries Volume 2. And what an artist. Back in the day, the gritty realism and innovative design work accentuated by the inking of Klaus Janson rocked all of us young comic geeks to our collective bones. Quickly evolving from standard comic fare to eye popping visuals, Miller began establishing himself as a cornerstone of modern comic creators.<BR>While Miller's amazing art style dominated the page and quickly won him a shot at writing the title, the scribe of the stories in this volume was the current DD writer of the day Roger McKenzie. When Miller turned up the art a few thousand notches, McKenzie answered back with some great writing of his own. McKenzie gets lost in the shuffle and often gets no credit, but as these stories attest, it was he who was a key figure in establishing a number of things Miller used so well in his run on the series. In these stories, Bullseye becomes the front-runner for making DD's archenemy list, the mob captures a major portion of Daredevil's attention, DD and the Black Widow finally end their long-standing on-again-off-again relationship, reporter Ben Urich becomes a major player in DD's life, Turk and Grotto begin their unfortunate association with old Hornhead, and the Gladiator becomes a tragic rather than a ruthless bad guy. McKenzie also worked with Miller on a duo of stories that made the Punisher a major comic player, but these tales appear in a later volume due to the Comics Code Authority's stand on drugs back in the early 80's. Although Miller had a hand in some of the stuff that went on here, you can't neglect giving McKenzie his due for getting the ball rolling in high fashion. Daredevil #164 which is re-printed here and written by McKenzie is one of the top ten Daredevil stories of all time and possibly the best Daredevil origin story ever.<BR>Miller is and always has been an innovator. While many of his generation have spent much of the past decade churning out the same old thing, he has continued to evolve and experiment and blow the socks off of the comic world (sans the Dark Knight 2 fiasco which simply seemed to be a very fat paycheck). This volume is where Miller really began the ride (he did some earlier and mostly forgettable work for Marvel re-printed in The Complete Frank Miller Spider-Man if you are a completist). The stories presented here aren't the best around, as Miller got very adept very quickly with his own writing, but they are still better than most comics of their day to this one. Daredevil #163 which is re-printed in this volume speaks to Miller's absolute tenacity. Although written by McKenzie, the concept was his--\\"What if Daredevil had to fight the Hulk?\\" When this was posed to his editor, comic apocrypha claims that the editor laughed and said, \\"So what happens in the second panel?\\" Needless to say the story runs for the full 18 pages. Daredevil fights the Hulk. So what happens in the second panel? How does a blind lawyer with moderate super abilities go one-on-one with the jade giant and survive? Well, you'll just have to buy this work and let Roger and Frank tell you themselves.	2003-12-14
US	34910292	R219X46EVTRTKM	087135084X	693046080	The Sensational She Hulk	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ain't She Un-Glamo-Rays!	This just may be the issue of John Byrne's amazing &quot;Fantastic Four&quot; comic book run you possibly missed. Tied in directly to the comic book series (as many of Marvel's graphic novels were) this lavishly illustrated oversize work is severely underrated and never re-printed outside of this format. <BR>The story is a little odd, as it deals with a herd of radioactive roaches (yes, you read that right) taking over the S.H.I.E.L.D. heli-carrier by possessing one of its top agents. Shulkie is called in because she is a member of the F.F. as well as being very well accustomed to the effects radiation can have on a body. And what a body (more on that in a sec). The roaches are vanquished and national security is saved, but not before She-Hulk is bombarded with radiation once again thus preventing her from ever returning to her normal everyday alter-ego, Jennifer Walters. <BR>This book is a key moment for the Incredible Hulk's less famous (but much cuter cousin) and shouldn't be missed. Byrne's art plays beautifully in this larger format and She-Hulk has never looked better. I was about 14 when I first read this comic, and She-Hulk immediately was catapulted to uber-babe status based on this work. And I still enjoy the work (albeit for different reasons) to this day. Buy it! It's cheap! No F.F. collection is complete without it!	2003-12-12
US	34910292	R190RJN9YX4M34	1573926884	409513946	The Great Deception: And What Jesus Really Said and Did	Books	1	22	47	N	N	Bad Guess  Disguised as the Concrete Truth	This is \\"shock\\" theology at its worst. In other words, if you say enough radical and outlandish things about the Christian religion (and especially its central figure), you will usually make something of a name for yourself and get newspaper articles written about you and roam the college lecture house and talk show circuits.<BR>Don't get me wrong, I was EXCITED when I saw this book. I was extremely interested in what Ludemann had to say about the authentic (and inauthentic) words of Jesus, especially as he comes across in his introductions as something of an authority on the subject. Unfortunately, this book is far removed from a scholarly work and borders on the inane. The \\"proof\\" of all the things those dastardly 1st century Christians put in Jesus' mouth to further their cause (mostly an enterprise in being hounded by their own people and butchered by the Romans) is full of circular reasoning (\\"Jesus couldn't have said what John said he did, because Mark said he said THIS instead\\") and judgement calls (\\"Jesus couldn't have said this because I don't think that, looking at historical context, he WOULD have said it\\"). You can't go about disproving Biblical text by citing other Biblical text as being \\"authentic\\" while dismissing what you don't approve of intellectually. Also, if you look at the historical record, people can say some wild and off the wall stuff. You can't discount statements and dialogue based on your assumptions and perceptions of the character of one that we have so little record of. Even claiming that the followers of Jesus made him say things to strengthen their current position by changing the words of the past is highly suspect. You can't make it true just by claiming it is (one of the author's favorite tactics). I found this whole book to be a maddening and elementary exercise in futility. Scholarly and authoritarian in about the same sense as those sappy Christian self-help books that tell you God's plan is for you to own a mansion and a BMW.<BR>The author made it very clear that the research leading to this work caused him to forsake Christianity. I don't fault him for his decision, I just wish he had a better reason for doing so. Jesus and the Christian faith will surely survive such shallow scrutiny.	2003-12-12
US	34910292	R322ZSFZBD4XNM	0887150039	60842456	Shaken and Stirred	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Shaken and a little disturbed!	This book, and I am NOT making this up, is a collection of full page soft core nude photos of women with a drink recipe to go along with the libation that appears somewhere in the picture. The text is full of innuendo and the pictures are either very standard or very strange. This is simply a suggestive and very odd excuse for looking at naked 80's women with big hair.	2003-12-07
US	34910292	R2MIAF9DSLAAOT	0375414878	652828607	Only Child: A Burke Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Try To Put It Down, I Dare You!	It is 4:30 in the morning. <BR>Now that we have established that little fact, let me tell you a little bit about my reading habits. I have a library full of books. Heck, I work in a book store. I adore books. A nice little chunk of every day is spent reading something. Since my son was born almost a year ago, this reading mostly takes place at the foot of the stairs to my apartment while I draw on a pipe so the smoke won't offend anyone else in the house. I usually read in twenty to forty minute sessions, usually enough for a bowl or two of Vanilla Cavendish. After that I put the book down and go about my day (or night as it usually turns out). It is like my own little sanctuary, and that is where I leave it. There is a stack of books at the foot of the stairs I am currently working through. In the last year I have never brought a book back up with me to continue. There is always a good spot to put a book down, believe me. At least I thought so until I started Only Child today. I read while I smoked, then I came up to the living room and read while my wife watched TV, then I returned to the spot and smoked some more (at least with a pipe I am looking at lip and throat cancer rather than that lung stuff), followed by a stint in the rocking chair and finally finishing with a last smoke while the book raced to its conclusion. I am not a fast reader either. I tend to savor books. The closer this book got to the final pages, however, the faster I read. I read as I walked up and down the stairs. I read as I went to the kitchen for a soda. I just couldn't look away from this book. In my younger days, I might have read a book straight through, but age (and being an aging father) has caught up with me. Now it is an unknown experience. Until I started Only Child today.<BR>I am not going to go into plot elements and how wonderful and engaging and hard Mr. Vachss writing is or even how amazing the character of Burke is at he has evolved over the years and in the pages (and youshould read the Burke novels in order as there is definite evolution and continuity). You probably know all that. I am simply going to tell you that in years of reading some really wonderful books, the experience of having found one so intriguing that I couldn't put it down until it was done is an experience I haven't had in a very long while.<BR>It is 4:30 in the morning, and I couldn't be happier. Or more blown away.	2003-12-03
US	34910292	R3KB0JL03AUGSK	0440194784	121956424	Welcome to the Monkey House	Books	3	6	8	N	N	If You Have Read Everything Else Vonnegut Has Written...	Having just finished Welcome to the Monkey House, I must admit that I prefer Vonnegut's lengthier works. I know this may make me a grand candidate for a good stoning, as Mr. K is reputed to be one of the best short story writers around, but this one just didn't do it for me like Slaughterhouse or Hocus Pocus or even Slapstick. Don't get me wrong, these stories are good, they just aren't any better than other famous and well read sci-fi short fiction writers like Asimov or Bradbury. <BR>I think, oddly enough, the constriction of the medium has to do with some of the similarities I see between these stories and, say, the works of Ray Bradbury (who came to mind a number of times while reading this work). While Vonnegut's novels are sprawling and conversational with enough room for a doodle or two, these small pieces are forced into a beginning, middle and end format that doesn't play as well with his style.<BR>I have devoured a number of Vonnegut works in a day or so, and sometimes I have read a them back to back, but Monkey House took me almost two weeks to read. I stalled out a few times, sometimes after two pages of a new story, and put the book down to finish it later. I ended up reading a story a day for the last week, just so I could finish without getting burned out. <BR>Like I said before, these stories aren't bad, they just seem to be standard for both their age and their genre when Vonnegut tends to be anything other than standard on every other occasion. I wasn't terribly disappointed, but I will stick to the novels from now on.	2003-12-01
US	34910292	R222YKAQ0ISII7	0822957868	930531123	A Defense Of Poetry (Pitt Poetry Series)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Ode on a Grecian Formula (or something to that effect)	If you happen to be  serious (and by serious I don't mean \\"serious,\\" I mean SERIOUS) fan of poetry, you have found the right book here. For far too long, modern poetry has been flaggelating itself like a monk with impure thoughts trying to bleed the depth and breath and pathetic pathos of human experience through a bloody back covered in sackcloth and .... Poetry has become rot. The stuff of the morbid Oprah novel and the goth band lyric. Well I am here to tell you that in 90 short pages, Gabriel Gudding has fixed all of that. Taken poetry back from the furrowed brow and placed the Grecian urn back on the mantle.<BR>Sure, it is funny, which may offend \\"serious\\" minded individuals, but it is also witty and poignant and full of mirth and terror. Gudding turns a phrase like few I have experienced. His use of alliteration and imagery and even (gasp) words that rhyme is so adept that it makes even some of his less serious moments shine. Poets privately think of themselves as terribly clever, but Gudding has out-clevered us all. You may think that you are the frontrunner in the Kentucky Derby, but Gudding is already at home composting the floral horseshoe.<BR>I got SUCH a kick out of this book. The first poem from which the book derives its name will hook you into continuing as it is the most viscious, visceral (not to mention outright funny) invective since Jesus lambasted the Pharasees in Matthew 23. This will move you to later and more epic themes like the hard fought battle with 9th century vikings entitled \\"How I Caught My Cold.\\" Or the thrill of the unique sporting event known as \\"The Pallbearer Races.\\" Or the terrible conflict between a mother duck and Humpty Dumpty entitled \\"Adolescence.\\" Or the gasping horror of being chased down by the unstoppable \\"Coalman\\" over a stolen lantern. These are all longer pieces (usually two to four pages), but there are certainly shorter works here as well that smack just as true. \\"After Yeats\\" has been copied into my personal volume of favorite poetry.<BR>The temptation, of course, is to start simply copying lines from the book to make you see how good it really is, but there isn't room for that here. You will have to mine the lines out for yourselves and share the best ones with whoever happens to be within reach as you are reading. <BR>So have I gone a tad bit overboard in singing the praises of this thin blue volume. I certainly don't think so. For years, I have been slogging through copious amounts of heart-killing rather than heart-rending poetry while waiting for this exact experience. It is about flaming time!	2003-11-20
US	34910292	R3DHYPL6A6ARZ4	0440153778	379693875	Love: Poems	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Worse Verse Was Never Written--Ever--Promise!!!	This book is, quite possibly and with little exaggeration, the worst book of poetry ever published. If you are a fan of very bad poetry, I recommend this with all of my heart. You will chuckle until your sides ache at this insipid piece of barely rhymed fluff. It isn't that the subject matter is what is objected to, heck, Byron, Keates and Shelley all wrote pages and pages about love and romance and the warm fuzzy feelings you get when that special someone looks your way. But Danielle Steele wins the prize for writing a book of poetry without really knowing what a poem is (or how one is written). Even at the outer edges of the definition of \\"poem,\\" you will not find any justification for what is perpetrated here. They wouldn't even print this junk in a Hallmark card it is so bad. Go dig up a love poem you wrote for some guy or girl you liked in the third grade--Read it--Note how horrible it is and how embarrassed you would be to have it read in public today--Then don't sweat it--Because it was probably no worse and possibly much better than any poem in Steel's \\"Love.\\" Another favorite poetry book of mine, \\"Very Bad Poetry\\" edited by Kathryn and Ross Petras, purports to contain the worst poem ever written in the English language. And it does. An absolute stinker. But many of the poems in Danielle Steel's \\"Love\\" book come awfully, awfully close.	2003-06-15
US	34910292	R133OH3LQ50ZH7	0394465687	371916423	Something Happened	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Nothing Happens in Something Happened	At first I was completely enamored of this book as it is frighteningly realistic in its portrayal of an average man beset by fears and phobias about his job, his wife, his kids and life in general. The inner workings of the mind was so dead on that I thought that I was certainly reading a work of genius. I even recognized a bit of my own insecurities here. But the further I read, the more I realized that this is the ultimate example of the Heller form of writing where the same stories are told over and over again, but this time there is no new information or revelation with each subsequent re-telling. By about page 300 I was sick of reading over and over again about his flirtations with the girl in his office, his latest bantering with his son and how much he hates his boss. I soldiered on hoping that...well...that as the title promised...something would happen. And it does. Finally. On page (and I am not making this up) 562 of this 569 page book. By this time, I was so tired that I was just thankful the book was about to end. Read the first 150 pages or so. Enjoy it. And put it down as you have pretty much read the book. I was hoping for much better.	2003-01-09
US	34910292	RHBUS1MQ87H8F	0812522567	765543472	Santiago: A Myth of the Far Future	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Who is Santiago?	This is one of my top ten all time favorite sci-fi novels and has been since I first read it when I was about 13 (I am more than TWICE that age now and that's all we'll say on that subject). The book has held up through many years and many re-readings and I enjoy it every time. Far from being traditional and technical science fiction, this is one part pulp western, one part space opera, one part Robin Hood type adventure and five hundred parts cool. Here Resnick has peopled a far flung corner of the Universe with more unique and colorful characters than you would normally get in ten such novels, and the dialogue is snappier than any other book of this genre, guaranteed. The book runs very fast and is fun from start to stop. I couldn't put it down almost two decades ago and I still usually read it in one or two sittings.<BR>   Santiago is the most notorious criminal in the galaxy with a price on his head like no other man past or present. He is a legend of close to mythic proportions. The only problem is no one has ever seen his face or dealt with him directly in his many years of looting and pillaging. This doesn't, of course, keep every bounty hunter on the galactic rim from trying to hunt him down. Sebastian Cain is one such bounty hunter, a disillusioned freedom fighter who decided to start killing people for profit once he realized all of his fighting to make the universe a better place was futile. The book begins with his receiving a simple tip in a small out of the way bar that puts him on the trail of the most notorious criminal in history. His adventures take him to many ports of call and he crosses paths with gamblers, assassins, a gun toting preacher, a starving artist, a sentient spaceship, alien indians and even a reporter or two. The only problem is that The Angel, the best bounty hunter in the biz, is also close to figuring out the puzzle that is Santiago. The book is a race, a chase, an adventure of the highest order and makes the point that nothing is ever really what it seems. After all, in a world where your name is a description of who and what you are (Poor Yorick, Jolly Swagman, Man-Mountain Bates), the most dangerous man in the universe is named Santiago. Look it up and see what it means. <BR>   There was a point when the paperback of this book came with a blurb saying it was soon to be made into a movie. I guess this never came to fruition, but it would certainly make the best animated sci-fi flick I can think of. I also see that Amazon is advertising for the sequel to be published soon. I cannot wait. Like I said, this is one of my favorite fun books ever and if the follow up is only half as good, it will still be an absolute blast.	2002-12-12
US	34910292	R2ZBP5RK6A6KMN	0743202007	154253514	Portrait of an Artist, As an Old Man	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Catch-22 of Another Color	This novel is about the only reasonable way that Joseph Heller could have closed the book on his tumultuous and probably very frustrating career. Being cursed with the blessing of having his very first book, Catch-22, hailed as a literary masterpiece still read by high school juniors everywhere, there was no real way to eclipse his initial offering. When you start at the top, the only place to go is down, and with each successive book, this became painfully apparent. Even his decades later sequel, Closing Time, fell very flat and very far short of Catch-22. <BR>   So I was very surprised and very pleased when his final book, Portrait of an Artist as an Old Man, turned out to be vibrant and refreshing and about as good as it gets. It is a frank and honest thinly veiled autobiography about the joys and terrors of being a writer of some acclaim who seems to have run out of steam. The false starts and stops of what this book could have been make the novel even more enticing. Resistant to the idea given by his editor of writing about the process of writing, Eugene Pota is trying to end his career with a grand magnum opus on par with Tom Sawyer or The Odyssey or even a scandalous book about his wife's sex life. And aren't we lucky that he ditched all of those ideas and brought us this rare treat instead. An original work about a writer trying to figure out what to write about.<BR>It is short, it is original and it is a very good read. Bravo on such a courageous choice to close the book on a career that started out with one of the best novels written in the English (or any other) language.	2002-12-05
US	34910292	R2MGE1BVWUM8L6	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Porthos Meets Poirot in this Ambitious Literary Mystery	This outstanding novel is neither high literature, nor a cheap dime-store paperback. But there are times in consuming this book you would swear you were reading both. Far from the current climate of overdone and overly dramatic (read: depressing) \\"serious\\" novels of the day, this book is full of action, intrigue and mystery without ever sinking to the pedantic plot twists that let the reader know the author is hoping he (or she) is writing the next blockbuster movie script. It is a book for lovers of books and it is spectacular. <BR>   Lucas Corso is an odd and refreshing protagonist as he is something of a (literal) literary mercenary both as a dealer of rare books and an authenticator of manuscripts. Early in the novel he finds himself in the possession of an original chapter of Dumas' Three Musketeers at around the same time he is commissioned by a patron to verify the authenticity of one of only three copies of an occult tome entitled \\"The Book of the Nine Doors\\" which is purported to have the power to summon the Devil himself. Both pieces begin him on a quest for which he is not prepared (and which he often resents) full of mystery and murder and intrigue and things that go bump in the night. Corso scowls his way from clue to clue, trying desperately to finish his quest and return his life to its pragmatic norm all the while being sucked further and further into a dark and alarming world that spirals out of all control. It makes the very good point that the man (or woman) who quietly appreciates a novel like \\"The Three Musketeers\\" from the comfort of their living room may very well resent having to live that adventure out in everyday life.<BR>   Steeped in literary tradition and reference, this book is a treat not to be missed. Blending elements of Dumas, Doyle, Christie, Eco, Rice and a generous heaping of originality and wit, it is an \\"old school\\" book that makes you seriously miss the old school (and makes you wonder why you have wasted your time with the trite flavor of the month). It is smart, it is fun and just when you think things have wound down to a satisfying conclusion, it socks you with things you have forgotten and becomes grand. The last page had me howling out loud and putting this book on my \\"must re-read forever\\" list. It will certainly have you hunting up more books by Arturo Perez-Reverte.<BR>   As a quick aside (and since I mentioned movies in the opening paragraph), this book HAS been made into a movie by Roman Polanski entitled \\"The Ninth Gate\\" staring Johnny Depp (the books cover copy tells you so). Skip it. It is a disappointing travesty that little resembles its source material. I was offended by its banality and wished I could recover the two hours of my life I spent watching it.<BR>   But this is, as always, simply my opinion.	2002-12-04
