US	35000436	RCWCWH2P561YM	0596007868	585526136	The Art of Project Management (Theory in Practice (O'Reilly))	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Practical advice	Written with wit and keen insight and a generous mixture of anecdotes, this book serves to bridge the gap between theoretical and practical project management. While the reader can read the chapters randomly and still find value, the linear approach may give more benefit as the succeeding chapters build on concepts previously introduced. <br /> <br />The author presents a refreshing way to look at project management. His perspective on the value of the vision document and the timing for creating the project schedule reveal some interesting insights. A good vision document can define the domain of a project, form the basis of the requirements, and set the success criteria. In discussing scheduling, he presents research that shows what we suspected all along, that scheduling too early is not only wildly inaccurate, but also hazardous to the success of the project. Although everyone can see that a project is trouble when the deliverables slip, throughout the book the author shares warning signs that indicate that the trouble has already started, and just as important, what can be done about it. <br /> <br />The author's perspective is strongly influenced by his years as a product manager for Microsoft. While your mileage may vary, the book is full of golden nuggets for all PM staff. I suppose that the art of project management is really about understanding what should happen in your project and what is happening (and about to happen), and then using your creativity to bridge the gap. I wish that I had this book to read ten years ago. I think that I could have saved myself quite a bit of agony.	2005-10-10
US	35000436	R1S2BNVZUUC2PV	0974514063	58611323	Pragmatic Version Control Using Subversion	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A great way to get started	The value of version control is well known, but getting started can be tough. Many articles begin with the assumption that the reader is already doing version control and is familiar with the related issues. Having read two other books in the pragmatic series, I had high expectations for this book as well as the related product. This book is a good introduction to version control, but more specifically an excellent introduction to Subversion. <br /> <br />The pragmatic programmers come to the rescue with practical advice on how to organize your assets. For me the two best parts of the book are the \\"Recipes\\" for using Subversion in the course of application development and the insight on using and managing trunks, branches, and tags. It is much less expensive to gain these valuable insights vicariously (and before your project has a train wreck). <br /> <br />The chapters introduce version control, show how to get started with Subversion, organizing the Repository, using tags and branches, and managing third party code. The appendices cover the installation and administration of Subversion (for both Windows and Linux), migration to Subversion, third-party tools for Subversion, command summary and recipes, and other resources.  <br /> <br />Throughout the book, the author uses the command line interface to work with Subversion. While an IDE interface may be used for actual development, seeing the commands executed is a great learning tool. Each command is explained in the context of how it can help solve project-related issues. The explanations are clear and thorough. Illustrations are well used to supplement the text. In the course of the explanations, differences between the CVS and Subversion are noted to ease the transition. <br /> <br />This little book is a good value. It is concise, but rather complete. Beware, after you read it, you may find that Subversion is a better solution than what you currently use for version control.	2005-08-23
US	35000436	R1NGO41NZMH393	0321305256	666130578	Stylin' with CSS: A Designer's Guide	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Save your &lt;table> tag for tables	This volume has the elements for a great book. It has an interesting, but challenging subject and an author with in-depth experience in that subject area; however that doesn't always translate into a great result.  <br /> <br />The format of the book is excellent. It has full color images of the referenced web pages, intelligent use of different fonts and illustrations, and snippets of code within the text. Even the left margin is used in an effective manner for further explanation, references to supporting websites, and useful insights. <br /> <br />Wyke-Smith explores the mysteries of the cascade, the secrets of the box model, and IDWIMIE with aplomb. He actually makes page layout and site design with CSS intelligible to non-designers (or anyone CSS-deficient). Designing forms for your site? No need to \\"table-up\\"; let CSS rescue you from having to abuse the table tag (or using the Microsoft \\"gridlayout\\"). You can create forms that look good and dynamically position themselves.  <br /> <br />With an interesting writing style and a keen wit, the author shares his experience and achieves that great result. In 250+ pages plus appendix and index, this slender volume can take you from a CSS zero to hero.	2005-06-26
US	35000436	RX586GSNW5T9D	0596009402	151313474	Python Pocket Reference (Pocket Reference (O'Reilly))	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Object achieved	While this is not the tool for learning Python, it is a valuable reference. It is amazing how much information that is packed into this small format. Toss it into your laptop bag for a quick reference, particularly since the third edition contains an index and covers Python 2.4. <br /> <br />With so many useful applications using Python as a macro language (e.g. Testmaker), this handy reference will earn its keep. I wonder if O'Reilly has a Ruby on the way, since they have mastered the format.  <br /> <br />Of course, there is always the online documentation, if you are online.	2005-06-26
US	35000436	R3FHNUD5TDC6RT	0974514055	510267474	Programming Ruby: The Pragmatic Programmers' Guide, Second Edition	Books	5	11	13	N	N	An authoritative resource	This book is probably the authoritative English text on Ruby. It is fondly referred to as the pickax book by many Rubyists. The second edition has been updated to include the improvements in Ruby 1.8. It is organized into five parts with the first three being instructional from different perspectives and the last two being a library reference and the appendices. <br /> <br />However, the first part focuses on introducing Ruby. Running short examples that demonstrates the syntax of Ruby, but the text gives more insight into the concepts behind Ruby. As a tutorial, this part works very well in that the examples add complexity in an iterative fashion. Being as the authors are the pragmatic programmers, there is a chapter on unit testing in Ruby. <br /> <br />With all the excitement about \\"Ruby on Rails\\" and other Ruby projects, it is a great time to look into Ruby. This volume is a solid way to get started. In addition to being a good tutorial, it is also an excellence reference. Its only flaw may be that at 800+ pages, it has transitioned to the \\"luggable\\" category.	2005-04-25
US	35000436	RMML3RR3A249I	0596008384	431782995	SWT: A Developer's Notebook	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nice intro to SWT	For a quick introduction to SWT, this book does nicely. It starts with some very clear instructions for preparing the eclipse IDE for running the SWT examples. The author focuses on the main graphical components within SWT such as the menu components, toolbars, buttons, text fields, lists, layouts, and tables. The format of the book is a bridge for experienced Java developers that are already familiar with GUI development.<br /><br />However, this book does not teach graphical interface design principles; you will need to know interface conventions. It does not contrast and compare the functionality of Swing with SWT. The pacing of the book is a little slow. For advanced topics, you may need to look elsewhere.<br /><br />Unfortunately, the examples contain numerous bugs. This is a bit off-putting for a tutorial. It would have been nice if the source was organized as an eclipse project and included the referenced graphics. While this book is a little narrow in its focus, it does provide some nice pointers about SWT. Despite some shortcomings, this is a useful resource for learning about SWT.	2005-04-25
US	35000436	R3Q4KV0JKZD9HR	0596005407	234774325	Head First Servlets and JSP: Passing the Sun Certified Web Component Developer Exam (SCWCD)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	More fun from the Head First team	The Head First Team has created another excellent book for those developers seeking to gain the adulation and praise from their friends, family, and colleagues that comes with SCWCD certification (and financial considerations from one's employer). While the focus of the book is to prepare the reader for the certification exam, it is a great resource for someone that just wants to get a handle on servlets and JSP. The main prerequisite is a working knowledge of Java.  <br /> <br />The book begins with a thorough presentation of how web applications work. The first three chapters are devoted to building a good foundation. The explanations are clear and concise. The illustrations with the handwritten notes really add to the learning experience. The chapters on servlets cover the request/response cycle, attributes and listeners, and session management in an equally effective manner. Scripted JSP (and scriptless), JSTL, and custom tags are the JSP topics covered. But the chapters on Web deployment and web security may be the most valuable to me. This book definitely cleared the fog for me in those areas. At the end of the chapters are mock exam questions to \\"tune you up\\" and to let you know if you need to \\"review before continuing\\". <br /> <br />Like \\"Head First Java\\", the topic is not exhausted, but rather what you need to know to start is included. The boundaries are set by the exam and the exam expectations are set by the real world. The book is fun to read and this is a good thing (750+ pages). The way that the book is written reinforces the learning experience to assist the reader in retaining this information, because there is a lot to know for this exam. Besides who can prepare you better for the exam that the people who wrote it?	2005-01-31
US	35000436	R124Q7IWT1LAN2	0974514039	671264813	Pragmatic Project Automation: How to Build, Deploy, and Monitor Java Apps	Books	5	6	7	N	N	May your lamp glow green	Project Automation is an investment in the project infrastructure. This investment will pay huge dividends. Few developers want to spend their time fussing over a build or creating the new release, but it has to be done. This book shows how to get it done without sacrificing a developer to the process. At first, I was a little skeptical as to how much automation could be accomplished, but now I am sold. The time and aggravation saved are tangible dividends to this investment.    With anecdotes, coding examples, and a sharp wit, the author progresses from touting the value of project automation to showing how to do it. He starts the process of convincing the reader that automation is a good thing with an amusing story to illustrate the need and the potential. Using readily available tools like Ant and CruiseControl, the author carefully explains each step. While there is sufficient coverage on the use of the tools for the examples, reference documentation will be necessary to \\"roll your own\\".    On our last big project, I now realize that frequent automated builds would have saved a lot of time, which was in short supply. Because they became so painful we did them less frequently, rather we should have increased the frequency. I would consider this book an essential part of a technical lead's toolkit. Once the team can experience the benefits of continuous integration and project automation, they probably would not want to go back.	2004-11-29
US	35000436	RVRHEVCV4UY45	0974514012	753417457	Pragmatic Unit Testing in Java with JUnit	Books	5	4	5	N	N	bridging the gap	Unit Testing is one of those widely accepted good practices that is not always well applied. This book helps to bridge the gap between what should be done and what is done. <br /> <br />While JUnit and Mock Objects are introduced in the text, the main focus is on developing insight into the philosophy of pragmatic unit testing. Most developers have a vague understanding of the why and how, but what do their results really mean? Are they sufficient to determine that the code is correct? How does the developer know? <br /> <br />With anecdotes and clear examples, the authors help to clear the fog. Just as important, they dispel many of the testing myths and explode the excuses that   are offered for not unit testing. Resistance will frequently come developers, but also from management thinking that developing test code will add time to the project instead of saving it. <br /> <br />A side-effect of developing unit tests is that they add another layer of code that must be managed. Do you need tests for your test? Where does it end? Again the pragmatic programmers provide poignant pointers to managing the tests themselves. <br /> <br />One of the pragmatic programmer commandments must be \\"Be brief\\". In less than 160 pages, this slim volume covers a lot of ground. For a project technical lead, several copies for your team to read may be a solid investment. Be sure to make a poster-sized version of the \\"Pragmatic Unit Testing: Summary\\" page from the book for the wall behind your desk.	2004-10-21
US	35000436	R1SG6RVMYQQFYG	0596006969	582391878	Hibernate: A Developer's Notebook	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great way to start with Hibernate	In less than 200 pages, this book focuses on getting started with Hibernate for Java persistence management. In those pages, the reader is introduced to HSQLDB (Java database engine) and Ant (build management). The first chapter is devoted to the installation and setup of these products. The remaining chapters cover an introduction to mapping (object to relational), persistence, collections, various associations, persistent enumerated types, custom value types, and queries using Hibernate Query Language (HQL), criteria queries, and native SQL. <br /> <br />The book is a nice introduction to Hibernate with good examples to illustrate the explanations. The format of the book is rather new. It looks like a notebook where a developer learning a new product is documenting his progress complete with margin notes. Most of the topics have follow-up sections with titles like \\"Why do I care?\\", \\"How do I do that?\\", \\"What just happened?\\", and \\"What about ...\\". These sections provide answers that one needs during the learning process. The main difference between this format and my notes on new stuff is that the large explosions are not noted here. <br /> <br /> <br />The project website has documentation, but for me the prospective offered here and the example code was very helpful. While this is a great start, other reference material will be needed to solve in-depth issues. Currently, there are not a lot books on Hibernate, but that will change. The value proposition is whether there is enough meat in this book to meet your needs, or would you rather read a 600-page monster? <br />	2004-08-06
US	35000436	R1RZ4ETSBKB265	1932394117	220544869	Tapestry in Action (In Action series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very impressive effort	Tapestry is a powerful presentation framework for web applications using components, but the project has been lacking current, extensive documentation. This new book by the creator of Tapestry has met the challenge. It is composed three major parts: getting started, developing Tapestry components, and putting it all together into a J2EE application complete with EJB. Fortunately, for the web app novice, Howard starts at the beginning. The prerequisites are fairly low. A moderate level of knowledge of Java and HTML are basically all that is required to follow the coding examples. Also, UML sequence diagrams are used to illustrate the flow of the Tapestry framework as described in the text. <br /> <br />One of the \\"knocks\\" against Tapestry has been the stiff learning curve. This book should help reader overcome this hurdle. Insight into the framework is built in a logical, incremental fashion. Because of this structure, it is best to read the book front to back unless you already are knowledgeable about Tapestry. The middle section will also serve as a good reference for building custom Tapestry components. <br /> <br />This is a great book. It is well written, relatively easy to follow, and about an interesting, timely product. If you are planning a J2EE project, this book and the framework deserve a look. Thankfully, Howard does not waste pages in an anti-Struts diatribe, but rather focuses on how Tapestry improves web development. Your challenge is how to fit that explanation into your boss's attention span.	2004-07-26
US	35000436	RNME26YCRSFM5	0596005253	683384123	Cascading Style Sheets: The Definitive Guide, 2nd Edition	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great resource	The subtitle claims this volume is the definitive guide, I believe it. This book provides comprehensive coverage of the current cascading style sheets specification and how it is being of being implemented (or not). The focus is on the CSS2 and CSS2.1 specs. My first impression of the book was that it would be a valuable reference manual, but as I began to read it, I soon realized it would serve as a great instructional source also. The writing style is as if a good friend sat down to explain style sheets. I found the pacing of the material to appropriate and the detail of the explanations to be exhaustive.<br />The chapter on selectors (chapter 2) was extremely valuable for me. It helped me to understand why some things did not work as I thought they should. Throughout the book, differences between the specification and the implementation in certain products are explained. Additionally, the differences between various levels of CSS are highlighted. The book has numerous examples for the CSS elements and variations.<br />This is a great book on CSS, but I wish that electronic versions of the examples were available. This is the only shortcoming of the book that I see. This book is a great tutorial and a valuable reference. Regular practice of the techniques contained within this volume can assist the reader in voiding the abuse of the table and fonts tags.	2004-06-28
US	35000436	REBXV5L81F0TG	0131421891	707565484	Java Testing and Design: From Unit Testing to Automated Web Tests	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Improve your web apps	Despite the curious title, this book focuses on the value that well planned and executed testing brings to a project. The subtitle \\"From Unit Testing to Automated Web Tests\\" does the book more justice, but still there is a lot more here.<br />In the first part of the book, the author focuses on a philosophy of testing. This includes a variety of testing protocols (i.e. unit testing, functional testing, performance testing), how they should be executed, and how to evaluate the results. He introduces a web rubric to use in the assessment of testing results. This gives the development staff an objective way to determine where to focus their corrective efforts. Testmaker, a toolset for intelligent test agents, is introduced. Testmaker is an open source product that can be used to automate much of the testing process and to evaluate the results. The author's concept of user archetypes for building the intelligent test agents is very effective.<br />In the second part of the book, the author brings the concepts of the first part to address some specific technologies like http/html, SOAP, and integrating with .Net web services. In each section, the author builds a little insight into the specific technology and addresses testing challenges that one may face. Finally, he addresses the big issue of turning these test results into actionable items. The final section of the book focuses on case studies of the successful implementation of the principles and toolset as described in the book.<br />This book has convinced me that automated testing can be an invaluable asset to a development project. It should be on your bookshelf along with \\"User Interface Design for Programmers\\" by Spolsky for practical advice on application development.	2004-05-24
US	35000436	RJYGQ0WBY2OKZ	0130449121	698599603	Advanced J2EE Platform Development: Applying Integration Tier Patterns	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Valuable resource	This book addresses a topic that faces many mainframe development shops, the integration of J2EE technology with existing mainframe systems. The subtitle \\"Applying Integration Tier Patterns\\" gives only a hint of the complexity of issues dealt with in this rather compact book.<br />The book includes chapters on the following: creating a common domain model for the enterprise, creating a design model, implementing an integration tier, and the actual development process. The process detailed with creating a common domain model could be an rather involved and expensive. The payoff is in the reuse of existing legacy functionality with an integration tier that it can be reused.<br />Some of the valuable insights for integration that are addressed include managing distributed transactions, achieving rollback using compensating updates, managing the impedance mismatch between objects and legacy, and the pitfalls of caching persistent data. Important considerations and workarounds are explored. One area that could have used more development is addressing the side effects that are embedded in legacy functions.<br />The book relies heavily on outside material that should be considered prerequisite, such as \\"Core J2EE Patterns\\". Additionally, some knowledge of UML modeling is useful (class and sequence diagrams). The concepts presented can be very useful for organizations that are facing such challenges, however due to the dense text and somewhat abstract presentation, it is not as accessible as it could be. Additional explanations of the terms and concepts in the appendices could be helpful. An example that is developed throughout the book could add additional insight. Although, there is a lot of value here for architects coming from primarily a mainframe background.	2004-04-16
US	35000436	R2C0JUIFW9OUAN	0471236403	717879763	Developing Java Web Services: Architecting and Developing Secure Web Services Using Java	Books	4	2	3	N	N	How things are supposed to work	This book is provides a comprehensive overview of creating web services with Java. The first part composed of two chapters is an introduction to web services. It portrays web services as the natural progression of distributed computing. The second part covers architecture and technologies like SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI, as well as interoperability with .Net. The third part includes important Java APIs for XML (like JAXB, JAXP, etc.) and the Java Web Services Developer Pack. The fourth part covers web services security. The fifth part is basically an introduction to the Sun Net Open Environment (Sun ONE). For the most part each topic has sufficient depth, but for instructional purposes a somewhat different organization (i.e. progressive concept building) would make it an easier read, but perhaps less valuable as a reference.<br />The book contains numerous code examples and diagrams that depict how things are supposed to work. A couple of interesting pieces are the Case Study using JWSDP from Sun and the Further Reading appendix. Since JWSDP is a free download from Sun, it is a good way to experiment with web services without a large investment. The further reading idea is a good one that is not used frequently enough. Some books have a bibliography, but where do you go to further your knowledge?<br />Overall, I felt that the book was repetitious and wordy. However, it covers many topics that are important to success in Java Web Services. There is so much repetition that a reader could probably just drop into a chapter on a topic of interest and begin reading. While many developers focus on how their particular vendor delivers web services, if you want to know how the technologies are supposed to work together, this book is a good resource, but you may not want to start here. At 700+ pages, this volume could be quite daunting.	2004-02-23
US	35000436	R5TH45G82HTAH	0321150406	112250430	Effective XML: 50 Specific Ways to Improve Your XML	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Make room on your bookshelf	This book is targeted towards developers with a good knowledge of XML. While the book is very instructional, it is not a tutorial. Rather, it is a collection of tips for building better XML applications. The subtitle is an apt description, \\"50 Specific Ways to Improve Your XML\\".<br />The book is divided into four topics with the 50 tips spread among them. Part 1 is based on Syntax, Part 2 is about Structure, Part 3 reflects Semantics, and Part 4 focuses on implementation. Each item (or tip) has a brief explanation followed by a more detailed explanation and examples of the problems and remedies. The book can be read in any order with one exception. The author includes a very nice bit in the Introduction. While in many books this is the part that most people skip or read later; do not succumb to that temptation. The author reviews many of the XML terms that are points of confusion in order to acclimate the reader into the way they will be used in the book.<br />One of the most refreshing parts of the book is way that the author is very upfront about delivering his opinion. For example, Item 3 \\"Stay with XML 1.0\\" states, \\"Everything that you need to know about XML 1.1 can be summed up in two rules.<BR>1.Don't use it.<BR>2.(For experts only) If you speak Mongolian, Yi, ... you can set the version attribute of the XML declaration to 1.1. Otherwise, refer to rule 1.\\"<BR>Afterwards, he delivers a lengthy and well-expressed defense of this position. <br />This book definitely deserves consideration for some shelf space if you work with XML, perhaps along side the \\"XML Bible\\" and \\"Processing XML with Java\\".	2004-01-21
US	35000436	R3EUS8C3T5I4TS	0321150791	508315590	JavaServer Pages, Second Edition	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Introduction to JSP 2.0	This book is a good introduction to JavaServer Pages. It covers a variety of topics such as using Java Beans, the standard tag library, using databases, using XML, Servlets, and Controllers. Additionally, creating your own tag libraries and some advanced topics like threads are covered. Since so many topics are addressed, the coverage is more of an overview. The book focuses on the new JSP 2.0 specification with the new expression tags being emphasized. A sample project is implemented gradually. As new topics are addressed in the book, they are added to the project.<br />The book has some nice features such as the included CD that has an installation of Tomcat 5 that implements JSP 2.0. The installation includes the working examples and the database already configured for the examples. The examples are organized as a website by chapter which allows the reader to easily navigate to see the example work or to examine the code. This allows the author not to inundate the book with code examples, but rather to add the appropriate amount of code to illustrate a point. <br />I have a few criticisms for the book. Exercises for the reader should be added to the book to reinforce the text explanations, improve the learning process, and aid the retention of the reader. Likewise more illustrations should be added to the text to break up the blocks of text and enhance the reader's understanding. Perhaps, the MVC pattern could have been introduced earlier in the book since it is generally considered part of good design.<br /> The book is a solid resource for developers moving to JSP. The reader should keep in mind that some of the topics would require more study to prepare for Production quality development.	2003-11-22
US	35000436	R3A80DP0YWLPYM	0596004842	938167142	Learning Web Design: A Beginner's Guide to HTML, Graphics, and Beyond	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Begin your web design career here!	This book starts with the premise that you have no web development experience and you do not want to program. The book is divided into four parts that cover an    overview of web development, an html tutorial, graphics for the web, and web site design. Within each section, a different subject is addressed in every chapter. While each chapter starts at a very basic level, enough material is taught to give the reader a good start in each of the subjects. I particularly liked the way style sheets and links were covered. The book is replete with tips, illustrations, and code examples to assist the reader. There are exercises to reinforce the information for most of the topics covered.<br />The format of the book is different than most of the O'Reilly books that I have read in the past. The larger format of the book with the better paper and more graphics add to the learning experience especially with this subject. This was a fun book to read, even though I was familiar with most of the material. I was mainly interested in the graphics section and web design. Apparently, my interests coincided with those of the author's because I feel that those sections are the strongest in the book.<br />My only slight criticism of this book might be that while the reader is probably a beginner, most of the graphics examples are done with Photoshop or Fireworks. These tools may be a bit out of budget for the fledgling web designer. This book is a good starting point, but the reader probably will need to follow it with something more substantial.	2003-10-23
US	35000436	R1X06WH62RBLET	0321159640	224674490	The Java(TM) Developer's Guide to Eclipse	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great Eclipse resource	I was initially disappointed that this book did not cover JUnit and that it was based on Eclipse 2.0; however those issues aside this book is a great resource on Eclipse written by folks on the development team. I am using Eclipse 2.1.1 and there are some differences for some things, but most are minor. The book is divided into three parts with Part Two having two sections. Part One focuses on the Eclipse development environment. In this section, there some very good tips about using Eclipse. I particularly liked the chapter on using CVS with Eclipse. There was some practical advice given about how to deal with issues one would encounter in projects while using Eclipse and CVS.<br />In chapter one, the authors challenge Eclipse veterans to read it with \\"bet you didn't know how to ...\\". There are some great keyboard shortcuts and other features of Eclipse that surprised me. There is a blind programmer on our staff that will get great mileage out the keyboard shortcuts.<br />Part Two is about creating plug-ins for Eclipse. At first, I was moderately interested in some plug-ins, but after digging into this section, I already have a couple of plug-in ideas that I want to pursue. The authors make it seems like a very natural thing to do. Part Three is composed of exercises on using Eclipse for Java development, with CVS, for debugging, for updating your Eclipse, for Plug-in Development Environment (PDE), and for feature development. The exercises are step-by-step instructions relating to certain chapters in the previous parts. Read the chapters first, but do these exercises!<br />If you are using Eclipse for development, this book has a wealth of information from those in the know. After all, WSAD is basically a bunch of Eclipse plug-ins.	2003-09-19
US	35000436	RXPXECNW4UEPU	0596004656	523745409	Head First Java: Your Brain on Java - A Learner's Guide	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Get started with Java here	For those programmers that want to learn Java, this book is an excellent resource. It appears to be targeted towards experienced programmers coming from a different language. There is a great deal to like about this book. The content is at an appropriate depth and numerous topics are covered. Most important perhaps is the way that the material is covered. Graphics and text are mixed in such a way to keep the reader visually stimulated. The explanations are very atypical for a book on a technical subject.<br />The book is organized as a tutorial of seventeen chapters that start with object oriented concepts and progress through graphics, swing, networking, I/O, RMI and deployment issues. I really like the Code Kitchen project. It is built in an incremental fashion on the material covered in the later chapters. In each chapter there is a group of exercises to challenge your retention of the material. But even more powerful are the learning concepts that the book is based on. Kathy and Bert are experienced instructors, but they have taken their knowledge of the content and merged it with the latest information in learning concepts to create a book that is fun to read, but a tremendous teaching tool. Dry and boring authors beware; tedious technical tomes are no longer acceptable, if they ever were.<br />The book is an excellent investment in time and money for anyone that wants to learn Java, but if you prefer a more serious tone, there is always \\"Thinking in Java\\" by Bruce Eckel, another of my favorites. However, we liked the book so much that we bought several copies to start some of our staff down the Java road. One last point, do the exercises. They may seem a little trivial, but like calisthenics, they are very effective.	2003-08-22
US	35000436	R3HJ7YRD5STZKE	0596003870	831499118	Java Extreme Programming Cookbook	Books	5	5	5	N	N	good reference	Instead of digging through the documentation of your open-source tool, take a look at this book. The first two chapters give an overview of extreme programming (XP), but the rest of the chapters are focused on the tools of XP. Each of the chapters on the tools begin with a brief description of the tool (and I mean brief). The rest of the chapter is sub divided into sections. Within each section, a problem that one might encounter with the tool is introduced, then a solution is proposed and discussion of the solutions follows (with an example).<br />The tools covered are Ant, Junit, HttpUnit, Mock Objects, Cactus, JunitPerf and Xdoclet. Tomcat and JBoss are addressed in a chapter together. Because of the brevity and focus of the book, probably not everything that you want to know about a tool is mentioned. After you already know why and when to use a tool, this book can help with the how.<br />The book is a good reference tool and could save someone a lot of time, but look elsewhere for more in-depth explanations.	2003-06-30
US	35000436	RGN71AJL6BK53	1590590619	73460034	Bug Patterns In Java	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Valuable Resource	Time is a very valuable resource on every project, and this book can help conserve that resource. The first six chapters of the book present defect management within the larger concept of Agile development methods. Chapters 7-20 detail various bug patterns with symptoms, causes, cures, and preventions. The remainder of the book provides some nice resources like a diagnostic checklist, a glossary, a reference list, and an index.<br />I recognized some of the patterns from the author's column on developerWorks, but the book does a solid of pulling them together to present debugging as a rather orderly and scientific process. The author relies on his real project experience with the DrJava project to illustrate his examples. Various tables are available to link concepts with potential bug patterns or problems to a bug pattern that could be related.<br />The patterns are explained and depicted with code with each chapter having a summary of the concepts at the end. Tips and variations on the patterns are sprinkled in the text. I found the glossary of particularly helpful. The text is easy to read and the examples are clearly explained. This book and \\"Bitter Java\\" may have a good \\"ROI\\" as required reading for Java developers.	2003-04-28
US	35000436	R1Y0L9Z2Z33XD3	0201771861	450741482	Processing XML with Java¿: A Guide to SAX, DOM, JDOM, JAXP, and TrAX (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Excellent Value	This book is an excellent resource for combining these two technologies, XML and Java. The author starts with the assumption that the reader is conversant in XML and at least intermediate skill level with Java.  The first chapter of the book serves as a XML refresher. The author uses this chapter to reach a common understanding of terms with the reader. The first part of the book covers using many of issues of managing XML from Java and introduces two XML based services, XML-RPC and SOAP.<br />The remainder of the book is devoted to the various APIs for parsing XML hence the subtitle \\"A Guide to SAX, DOM, JDOM, JAXP, and TrAX\\". Throughout the book the author creates clear code examples and very readable text. This serves to develop understanding and insight in reader. This particular technical topography is under continuous change. Adapting to these changes will be much easier after having read this book.<br />A lot of tips and \\"gotchas\\" are shared in the book, but it is arranged so that the developer grab what he needs or he can sit and camp awhile. The book text is available at the author's website, but I prefer to read the paper copy. If you are going to use XML and Java together, this book would be a good investment.	2003-04-17
US	35000436	R1UZ5GZ514BKY4	1886411778	756716713	The Book of Sax: The Simple API for XML	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good Intro into SAX	This book takes a single aspect of xml technology, SAX, and gives it a rather comprehensive coverage. The first portion of the book is a tutorial on Java programming for SAX. It helps the reader to understand the conceptual differences between processing xml using SAX as opposed to the DOM. A small application is developed in an iterative fashion to illustrate the programming issues with SAX. Some guidelines are given along the way to direct the reader in developing robust code. The examples are based in SAX 2.0. A chapter is devoted converting SAX 1.0 applications to SAX 2.0 <br />Chapters 10 and 11 are devoted to the SAX 2.0 and SAX 1.0 APIs respectively. In these references, a real convenience is that the class names are printed on the page edge to form a thumb index. Each class or interface has a brief description of its use, the Visual Basic Equivalent, the Constructors, and Methods with coding examples and descriptions.<br />Since xml is increasing in importance to Java programmers, this book can be a very useful tool. However, it would be helpful if the authors gave updated information on the book web site about using the examples with Xerces 2.0 and Java 1.4. Technology moves on.	2003-01-27
US	35000436	R33F12ENAWWQJ1	1893115941	236026060	User Interface Design for Programmers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fun to read!	While this book is not in the usual sense a tutorial or a reference manual, it instructs and I will refer to it when creating user interfaces. This book is like a collection of short essays that are fun to read around a common theme, how to create good user interfaces. The overall effect is to modify the programmer's philosophy about user interfaces.     I am stilling mulling over a lot what Joel has to say. Although the book is rather short, it covers the subject rather well. There are no exact formulae for creating great user interfaces. Rather, the author gives some guidelines to consider when developing. They are explained and accompanied with full color examples that illustrate the author's point from actual applications.    Many readers may think that these guidelines are just common sense, but after using numerous applications and websites, it may not be that common after all. Read the book, the consumers of your application may thank you afterwards.	2002-12-02
US	35000436	R1M04R40RIWTC9	0596002262	448745463	Enterprise JavaBeans (3rd Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great way to get started	If you want to learn about Enterprise JavaBeans, this book is a great place to start. The author begins by explaining the basic concepts around Enterprise JavaBeans such as distributed objects, business objects, components transaction monitors, and asynchronous messages. He does in such a way that developers from a variety of backgrounds can relate to the concepts (e.g. a mainframe programmer relating to CICS as transaction monitor).<br />The first three chapters builds on these fundamental concepts to create an understanding of the architecture and the attraction of Enterprise JavaBeans. The idea that you can develop these server-side components and expect them to work in any EJB-compliant Component Transaction Monitor is a great incentive to dig deeper. By chapter four, the author is creating components. They don't do much, but they are enhanced and new ones created throughout the rest of the book. The remainder of the book covers Container Managed Persistence, Bean Managed Persistence, Session Beans, Message-Driven Beans (new in EJB 2.0), Transactions, Design Strategies, Deployment Descriptors, and J2EE. Where the EJB 1.1 spec differs from EJB 2.0, the book shows explains how to manage each one.<br />This book expects the reader to have solid knowledge of Java and enterprise level development. The examples in the book are not always the full code listing. There are example workbooks that can be downloaded from the book website. While the applications are portable, the way that they are managed differs. I suggest that you have your preferred EJB server working before beginning the book and work along with the examples. Additionally, there are numerous diagrams to assist you in grasping the concepts. If you need to do EJBs, get this book.	2002-11-25
US	35000436	R3R3XAC0QE804X	0735712352	343033037	Cocoon: Building XML Applications	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Coccon: the XSP alternative	Cocoon is an open source product that is part of the Apache XML project. It enables the construction of web sites using Java Servlet technology, XML, and XSL. The Cocoon 2 platform is a major architectural change from the original platform. This book covers the new platform very thoroughly. The contents start with an overview of Internet Applications from a historical perspective and moves towards the prospect of empowering applications with XML. There is of course the obligatory chapter on installation of the required products. The fourth chapter is a focal point in the early part of the book, in that it covers Cocoon in such a way that a technical reader can gain enough insight to determine if he wishes to pursue it further. Cocoon is significantly different from JSP and Model 2 architecture.<br />The book follows the path of exploring Cocoon with progressively increasing depth. A web portal application is developed in the book, using Cocoon. It starts very simply, but impressively by providing RSS news feeds from content providers on the Internet. As more of Cocoon is revealed, functionality is added to the application, like SQL inquiries and finally XSP.<br />The authors cover the Avalon Component Model that Cocoon is based on, the internals of Cocoon, and how to develop your own components for Cocoon using Java. While a lot can be done with Cocoon without writing Java, knowledge of XML and XSLT is a must. <br />There are not a lot books or articles on Cocoon. This book makes a great step in filling that void and would be a valued resource for anyone interested in what Cocoon can deliver.	2002-10-23
US	35000436	R1R2BPRHN08SIJ	0735711321	430884182	JavaScript + CSS + DOM Magic	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It works for programmers, too!	This book is targeted towards experienced graphics designers that wish to enhance their web skills. The author has extensive experience and a background from this arena. She has a very impressive bio, in addition her pages look great. The book is a tutorial on using the three technologies in the title to create interesting and effective web pages. Using the techniques covered one can develop pages that have eye appeal, that interact with the user, and that have an intuitive feel. Although I have a programming background instead of graphics, I have gotten a great deal out of the book.<br />The book is organized as a tutorial of fourteen projects with increasing complexity. While hypertext markup language (html), cascading style sheets (CSS), and the document object model (DOM) are topics worthy of volumes of their own, the author assumes a working knowledge of html and an understanding of CSS by the reader. JavaScript is introduced on a \\"need to know basis\\". The techniques are taught in the context of the Project. The use of the DOM is explained as it is used. The quirks, tips, and variations in support for these technologies within various browsers are given as tips throughout the book.<br />I feel that the book is very readable and useful. I have already employed some of the things that I have learned, but there are some annoying issues with it. Since the examples are done in a progressive fashion, it would be helpful if the steps in text where related to the source code in a consistent manner. The Project 9 final version crashed MSIE 6.0 and hung Opera 6.0 in an endless reload cycle on my computer. Finally, I would suggest that the reader refer to the code on the included CD-ROM or from the website since the there is a difference between the code snippets in the text and the provided code.	2002-09-30
US	35000436	R26BVK7GAATEM7	0596002114	799026404	Managing and Using MySQL (2nd Edition)	Books	3	35	36	N	N	A good book covering a lot of topics	The title is not all together indicative of what the authors try to accomplish in this book. The book attempts to be both a tutorial and a reference for programmers and administrators. The book consists of four major parts. The first part is the Introduction, which contains chapters on MySQL in general, installation on Unix and Windows, SQL for MySQL, and general Database Administration. This is accomplished in less than eighty pages which makes for brief explanations, limited illustrations, and examples. The second part is the MySQL Administration. This part has chapters on Performance Tuning, Security, and Database Design. The third part is MySQL Programming. The chapters' topics include general database applications, Perl, Python, PHP, C API, Java, and extending MySQL. Part four is the MySQL Reference. SQL syntax for MySQL, MySQL data types, Operators and Functions, MySQL PHP API Reference, C Reference, and Python DB-API are the chapter topics included in this part.<br />The authors do not assume that the reader is knowledgeable about relational databases in general, SQL, or the related topics. For example, the chapter on SQL on MySQL does not just describe the subset of SQL-92 that MySQL supports, but rather it contains a tutorial on the SQL for the commands that MySQL supports. Chapter seven on Database Design contains a tutorial on taking a database to third normal form complete with Entity-Relationship diagrams, unique identifiers and relationships. In part four, the PHP chapter contains a mini-tutorial on PHP and a complete PHP application. While the level of thoroughness is nice in the sense that you do not have to refer to other volumes to comprehend the subject, it makes for some very intense reading because of the size of the book versus the topics covered. <br />Overall, I like the book as a general tool, however there are certain omissions, for example: there is no reference phpMyAdmin or WinMySQLadmin. These tools are very easy to use and helpful in working with MySQL. In addition, the topic of creating InnoDB or BDB tables for transaction support is not addressed. The explanation of granting privileges in MySQL was a little confusing. Some supporting illustrations or diagrams would be well received there. The book is fairly successful in covering its broad topic domain. In conjunction with the MySQL manual, the book should meet most of my needs, but if I were a full time database administrator, I would probably want a dedicated reference book.	2002-09-09
