US	35010845	R2270NAHSBZKB	0405105584	702815926	The Homeric Gods: The Spiritual Significance of Greek Religion (Mythology)	Books	4	17	28	N	N	Genius, genius, monstrously flawed	In many ways, this is incomparably the best guide ever written to Greek and especially Homeric religious ideas.  Its historicizing theories as to the earlier and later elements of Greek religion were dead before Otto wrote it, killed by Dumezil's observation that the time elements in a mythical narrative are as much part of the myth as everything else and cannot be use to separate its elements; but its recreation of the Greek religious and imaginative world is unsurpassed.  One just has to compare Otto's description of the leading gods with that of his more popular contemporary Kerenyi, to realize how much more vivid, concete, lively, and above all conclusive and certain, it is.  Kerenyi parades before us his knowledge of complex data by setting us riddles that he only half-solves, and leaves in a cloud of slightly charlatan-like cleverness; Otto descrobes something that is internally coherent and externally commanding, and that, one feels, can easily have been the object of a cult.  The last five words of his description of Athena are worth a whole treatise.<br /><br />This being the case, why is Otto neither read nor reprinted, while other members of the same generation - Eliade, Kerenyi, Dumezil - live vigorously in the bookstore and the classroom?  Well, one obvious reason is the translation.  I do not think that there has ever been a case in the history of human thought in which a mind of such exceptional poetic and imaginative power has been saddled with a translator so completely deaf to all the merits of language.  I doubt that there is a single sentence in this English version that could not be recast to sound better.  The sense of plod, plod, plod, seizes any sensitive reader from page one, and never leaves.<br /><br />However, there are more substantial reasons.  The first is Otto's fantastically idolatrous attitude towards the Greeks.  We would believe much more readily in their greatness if he did not remind us so often of it.  There is hardly a page without its shower of superlatives about Greek inventiveness, joyousness, brilliance, etc.; and put, at that, in such an infelicitous way as to suggest rather a 13-year-old schoolgirl with a bad case of schwaermerei than an authoritative scholar.  With this goes an ill-conceived contempt for everything that is not Greek, especially for anything that can be labelled as \\"Oriental\\"; expressed, this time, in the language of pompous professorial vagueness (anyone who has read an old-fashioned Italian or German scholar knows what I mean).<br /><br />These are awful blemishes in the face of a work of genius; and yet I do not know whether, if they were removed, the work of genius would be even possible.  Otto was, to be brutal, a Nazi, or rather a member of that awful, intellectually irresponsible, overeducated nationalistic penumbra of racist and immoralistic intellectuals out of which Nazism germinated.  He approached the religion of the Greeks in the spirit, not principally of an analist, but of a lover, who loved everything about it - and that includes the brutality, the immorality against which even Plato complained, the ruthless sexuality and suppression of the feminine - as much as he hated Christianity, and he used the one as a stick to beat the other.  It is an unfortunate fact that his magnificent imaginative recreation of the Greek mind is a direct product of his voelkisch and immoralistic philosophy.	2005-01-27
US	35010845	R1WJ8GY2MWJTEO	2228880159	853623046	Mariages indo-européens	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One step in a huge field	Although full of evidence of Dumezil's genius, this is not the best of his book-sized essays.  For one thing, it shows too clearly that he has ventured into a field - comparative law, especially the law of marriage - that is not his own, and in which he needs help.  Even the most encyclopedic of masters has areas in which he is less proficient than others; and anyone who knows, for instance, what a labyrinth and minefield (to mix my metaphors) the idea of Marriage is in the study of Greek law will realize that, in intruding in the field with his analysis of Herakles' marriages, Dumezil has taken a long and risky step.  Nor is that analysis particularly well conducted; in order to fit the hero's three marriages in his framework, Dumezil has to stretch the evidence, especially as far as the first one is concerned.  (In my own personal view, the legend of Erginus, Herakles and the liberation of Thebes does not even originally pertain to Herakles at all, so to use it as part of a general frame of Herakles' adventure is rather problematical.)  The Roman and Indian instances he brings are more convincing, especially taking into consideration the well-known Indian habit of overloading pre-existent structures with new cases, and the Roman case in particular shows both his formidable scholarly powers.  But what hurts the book most, purely as a literary production, is that it is not really a finished whole, but a series of related essays with a general air of open-endedness.  It was, of course, one of the great man's last finished works before he died; and while full of prospects and potential for further studies, there is something about it that remains rather less than satisfactory.	2004-09-26
US	35010845	R2LIT6XN3C1DGL	0446691402	201974642	Gloriana	Books	1	9	28	N	N	This sinister apology for political violence and rape	I apologize for not being interested in the literary subtleties of this clever piece of writing.  I regret that my unsophisticated mind does not take all the refined (as a sledgehammer) allusions to Spenser, Gormenghast, the Edda and so on. But you see, I have this bizarre notion that the climax and conclusion of a story are something to do with its point; and the climax of this story has a thief and murderer - oh, yes, sorry, a *romantic* thief and murderer, that makes *so* much difference to his victims - raping a woman who happens to be the Queen of England (again, that makes *so* much difference to the rape!); which she enjoys so much that she makes him king consort, with a certain amount of diplomatic lies to smooth his path.  Translation: \\"being raped did the bitch good, and besides she enjoyed it\\".  Gloriana can easily be defined as a bitch, in case you were wondering, and the fact that the loathsome Quire managed to give her an orgasm is the sure token that he is a suitable sovereign for an empire, which can now look forwards to all the wise subtleties of rule which he learned as a murderous street thief.  Sorry, I forgot: a *romantic* murderous street thief.  If I ever read a more thorough-going, false-faced, revolting apology for evil in every form, I have, luckily, forgotten it.  But then Moorcock never had much time for morality, or what he called \\"pooh fantasy\\".	2004-09-26
US	35010845	RKNY68SGVELVT	0140443339	167010526	The Oresteia: Agamemnon; The Libation Bearers; The Eumenides	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Nothing like this has happened to the English language since Fitzgerald translated Omar Khayyam	What is the definition of a pedant?  Someone who claims that Vellacott's translation of the Oresteia is \\"better\\" than Fagles' and complains about Fagles' supposed imprecision.  That is seriously missing the forest for the knots in the lower branches of some of the smaller trees. <br /> <br />Translation is necessary; nobody can know all the classical languages of the world, and few people who want to familiarize themselves with the great works of literature outside their own language have the time to master even a few of the languages required.  And sound translation is a blessing.  But it is very rare that one gets a translation that is itself a masterpiece of literature, that embeds itself into the language as a classic.  I think we can all think of a few: Schelling's German versions of Shakespeare, which have been acted and reprinted for more than two centuries, Monti's Italian Iliad, the English Authorized Version of the Bible, Pope's and Chapman's Iliad - both beautiful, both unfaithful - and Fitzgerald's Rubayyat. <br /> <br />Now as far as I am concerned this translation is that of that rare quality: something that will be read with pleasure and admiration as English verse, two hundred years from now.  Those who whine about its being imprecise ought to remember that Italy's premier Iliad translator, Monti, knew no Greek and worked from Latin and earlier Italian versions; yet, being a great poet, he produced an account that has established itself at the heights of the Italian literary heritage.  I first read Fagles' Oresteia at 18, in a Penguin paperback dotted with admiring reviews from everyone from Mary Renault to Bernard Levin; and I was so blown away that for a couple of days I could do nothing but bend the ear of all my friends and repeat - \\"And I thought Shakespeare was something!\\" <br /> <br />A quarter century has passed, and I have not changed my mind.  This book is \\"all that with a cherry on top\\"; a rip-roaring ride of imaginative language, brilliantly inventive metrics, powerful imagery, and terrifying suspence.  It is a work of genius in English poetry. <br /> <br />\\"O men, your destiny. <br />When all is well a shadow can overturn it. <br />When trouble comes, a stroke of the wet sponge <br />And the picture's blotted out; and that - <br />I think that breaks the heart.\\"	2003-12-02
US	35010845	R19GSGNTTR2W5A	0718107926	960462227	Up the organization: How to stop the corporation from stifling people and strangling profits	Books	5	4	11	N	N	Want to howl with laughter?  Read this.	UP the organization - Robert Townsend<br />What a terrific little book this is: full of practical recommendations to avoid companies becoming brain-dead bureaucratic monsters, born from a genuine belief in work and in free enterprise, and, above all, as funny as Wodehouse or Charlie Chaplin.  I swear, you will find yourselves laughing out loud again and again: read, for instance, the chapter entitled \\"Office party, how not to do the annual\\", with its crushing two final sentences: \\"Kill two birds by combining it with the annual quarter-century party.  Then all your employees can see living examples (you should excuse the expression) of what twenty-five years in your outfit will do to what were once healthy human beings.\\"  This kind of laughter, I will agree, is bitter - if justified; but Townsend is also capable of gentler kinds of humour.  \\"Once I was asked to head a new long-range planning effort.  My wife listened to my glowing description of my new job.  Next evening she blew the whole schmeer out of the water by asking: 'What did you plan today, dear?'  Bless her.\\"  And there is his gift for epigram: \\"Campus recruiting: send the people who can't go.\\"  He means, send your really valuable employees: \\"Your man, who is on top of a job he believes in, will be worth 40 personnel-department zombies who improvise answers and deal in images\\".  Besides, \\"your part-time recruiters will... come back refreshed from their trip behind the Beard Curtain.  Who knows, they may even pick up an idea.\\"<BR>The weakness of this book is that it envisages the workers in the ideal company as a sworn band of Knights Templar under lifelong discipline to both give the customer the best possible service and to work in the most effective, time-saving, un-bureaucratic way possible.  This is, of course, an ideal; but it is not the way people live.  There is rather too much in here about working late and overtime; though admittedly Townsend is speaking of managers and such service providers as lawyers - and of emergencies - the underlying ethic does not really seem to differentiate between them and bottom-level workers.  But in most people's lives, work is not the main consideration.  Most people would, indeed, prefer to give good service than bad or none at all; most people do feel better eating bread they have honestly earned, than had by fraud or begging.  But there are limits.  It is hard, and I would say unnatural, for people to commit their lives to the success of their company, especially if someone else owns it.  Of course, Townsend is a great supporter of shared ownership and reward schemes; but even that does not mean that the person with a one-millionth participation in General Conglobulation Ltd. can or should feel as committed to the company's future as the top managers and large shareholders.  Besides, we have seen that share-ownership schemes and share issues can be easily abused by scoundrelly managers out to plunder the company.<BR>Of course, Townsend would loathe that sort of thing.  He condemns it explicitly and implicitly.  The fact is that Townsend is so devoted to his view of honest dealing and committed work, that he actually becomes quite radical.  He is biting about corporate racism and sexism, stinging about corporate abuse of power, and savage about the means by which companies abuse the legal system to avoid paying fines they had perfectly well deserved - and about corporate law-breaking in general.  Communism - he says quite rightly (writing in 1970) - will not destroy the American system: what will destroy it \\"is when the American housewife discovers that Clark Clifford [a notorious firm of lawyers] arranged for her to pay half of the punitive-damage fines that General Electric got socked with for trying to defraud the American housewife... the moral equivalent of letting the meatpackers deduct as an ordinary business expense the cost of the ingredient they use to make putrescent meat look healthy\\".  There is not even a drop of his usual laughter in such sentences; and he goes on: \\"Judging by the Allison case, where a known defective airplane engine caused the death of 38 people, corporate manslaughter costs about $200 a head... Does it alarm you to know that your industry does not have a single honest chief executive?  Me, too.\\"<BR>It is tragic that this book should seem so much of its time - that is, of the past.  It was published in 1970.  Who, in this day and age, would dare to write or publish anything similar, except for an extremist?  But Robert Townsend was one of the greatest CEOs in corporate America at the time.  The corporate bureaucracy has triumphed, with its ultimate expressions - the \\"business\\" presidency of the hereditary oilman George W.Bush - pecking vulture-like at the entrails of free America; and throughout the world, it is no longer possible to imagine real opposition to the bureaucratic model of corporate power, except for beardies and unworldly types.<BR>And that is a pity; because if this book does one thing for you, it is to make you realize that dishonesty, abuse of power, corporate brain-death, bureaucracy, nepotism and management perks are, quite simply, bad business.  They not only defraud the public; not only diminish those who perform them; but they weaken and discourage the company itself.  In the end, honesty, however difficult to stick to and unrewarding in terms of immediate ego-boost and advantage, really is the best policy; and the kind of corporate vanity expressed in the Bush economic policies is really ruinous to everyone involved.	2003-11-27
US	35010845	R243MVGRE908W7	0060924357	885692835	Hollywood vs. America: The Explosive Bestseller that Shows How-and Why-the Entertainment Industry Has Broken Faith With Its Audience	Books	4	9	15	N	N	excellent picture, dangerous trend of argument	The scene that opens this book could not be more significant of the self-created gulf between Southern California's inbred colony of pseudo-artists and the majority of their fellow-citizens, which is Medved's subject.  Having gone out of their way to outrage any and every Christian sensitivity with an artsy but artistically vile product called THE LAST TEMPTATION OF JESUS, the clever people in Hollywood worked themselves into a frenzy of terror when they saw the members of the religion they had insulted actually turn up on their streets, in an orderly and perfectly peaceful demonstration.  Victimized by their own self-created images of Christians as vicious bloodthirsty persecutors, they quivered in their glass offices, expecting any minute to be stormed and mobbed to death; and then the demonstrators, having made peaceful lawful use of their democratic right to peacefully assemble and protest, dispersed - leaving moguls and artistes to their masturbatory fantasies of Inquisition tortures and burnings at the stake.<BR>This is the core of Medved's argument: not so much that Hollywood's relentless plumbing of the depths is an assault on common decency and universal morality, as that it is commercially disastrous, as being a separation from the common life experience of the average American (and, I would add, the average European, Asian, African and Australian - the average Antarctican, if there were any); producing movies and TV material that the average human being simply does not want to see.  In terms of argument, it is a magnificent strategy.  The average Hollywood person lives in a world where normal morality does not get much of a show, where greed is as natural as betrayal, and vanity as common as adultery; not much may be expected from their moral reactions, which have to be cauterised in the first place to allow them a career.  Call them enemies of sense and morality, and they will in all likelihood preen themselves on being serious artist who see beyond common conventions; but charge them with making commercially ruinous choices - and they may listen.<BR>May, not will.  For Medved identifies with great precision the Hollywood quirk which insures that putrid material such as THE LAST TEMPTATION, or THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, or THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE AND HER LOVER will continue to be produced: the lust to be seen as ARTISTS.  I have seen this at work in comics; it seems to be, if anything, even more furiously operative in movies.  The cranks and crooks, the hustlers and chancers and Wiccans, that make up Hollywood, have a desperate itch to be seen in the light of the few, all too few, real artists among them.  They want respect even more than commercial success; they want to be artists even more than they want to be rich.  Now to be an artist is not in anyone's gift; talent, like winning at the lottery, is given at random.  (One of the better Hollywood movies of the last thirty years, AMEDEUS, might be taken to express the rage of Hollywood professionals at this.)  But there is one thing that anyone can do to pretend to it: just as nothing fakes wisdom more convincingly than a posture of conscious disenchantment, of having simply seen through anything and everything (very popular, therefore, among teen-agers trying to pretend that they are already adult), so too nothing can ape more easily the daring and intellectual independence of a real artist than a deliberate assault on what are perceived as conventional postures - \\"conventional\\" morality, \\"conventional\\" religion.  What gives away the inner deadness of this kind of superficial daring is that it actually generates more clichs than the \\"conventional\\" genres which it attacks - as Medved does not fail to notice: the Religious Fanatic, the Screwed-Up Vietnam Vet, the Corrupt Catholic Priest (or the Idealistic Catholic Priest Driven From The Church By The Corrupt Catholic Priests).  Aggressive intensity of expression serves to mimic depth of content; and superficial critics co-operate.  To put an end to the perpetual race further and further down the gutter would threaten Hollywood egos, close off the well-beaten avenue to ARTISTE reputation; and that, much more than any commercial reason, is why it will be strenuously resisted.<BR>Yet there is another reason for such things as THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.  Ask yourselves: which environment most closely approaches a cannibalistic lifestyle?  Answer (obviously): show business.  The capitalistic environment in general is fairly heartless; but nowhere are human beings so brutally used and discarded, pushed up to be cast down, than in entertainment.  Even the time of glory has something cannibalistic about it, as men and women are placed up to be seen by the crowd in every kind of position, naked inside and outside, stripping in movies and exposed in their private lives by paparazzi and gossip columns; and it is the very matter of clich - exposed repeatedly by classics from Hollywood itself - that when the glory is over, stars are discarded as mercilessly as used-up dishcloths.  Hollywood eats human beings.  That is, THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS has very little to do with the life experience of the ordinary human being, but is a perfect allegory for showbiz, with Hannibal Lecter as the ultimate Hollywood survivor.  That is one reason why these people find it so easy to see such thing as quality, artistic, daring projects.<BR>Medved's strategy of argument has serious limits.  By criticizing Hollywood's casual viciousness not as immoral but as uncommercial, he risks endorsing the 0pposite - saccharine, common-minded pap.  There is one startling instance of what might happen: Medved criticizes THE LITTLE MERMAID - perhaps the greatest Disney movie ever made - for showing a teen-ager in revolt against her father.  But my dear sir, this has been the stuff of comedy since time out of mind!  Nonetheless, the analysis in this book is in the main acute and damaging - which is why it has becomeso unpopular.	2003-11-13
US	35010845	R3MPMZKHZ81UHG	0140278079	750631841	Complete Dead Sea Scrolls	Books	2	199	262	N	N	Less important than you think, and dubiously edited	There is something about the Dead Sea Scrolls that brings out the worst in scholars; from John M.Allegro, who started out as one of their editors and ended up deciding that Jesus was a mushroom, to those who write (and publish!) books to prove that Jesus was the Teacher of Righteousness, or that He never existed.<BR>The fact is that their importance has been overestimated; and that for a very good - or very bad - reason.  Long before 1948, Western historical writers, especially from the Protestant tradition, had developed an itch to find &quot;alternative&quot; sources for Palestinian history, to change the picture so far known - to disprove (to put it brutally) the historicity of the Gospels.  This itch came before any sources: it was the desire to disprove the Gospels that drove what passed for historical research, not the opposite; and, the absence of such sources, German and American scholars developed entire arrays of question-begging techniques to deny their value - techniques quite alien (and I speak from experience) to the average historian.<BR>It is of course true that, as a cache of largely new documents about first-century Palestine, the Scrolls are of great interest; but the area they cover is hardly undiscovered country.  Long before their discovery, the New Testament, Josephus, the earliest portions of the Talmud (however difficult to interpret) and sundry other sources, such as Classical and Samaritan, had told us much more about Roman-age Palestine than about most other Roman provinces (compare the difficulty of writing a history of Palestine with that of writing one about, say, Illyria or Mauretania or Britain or even Syria).  This is what makes it so infuriating for the would-be deniers: not only are the documents there, but the more serious research is actually carried out, the more their first-century origin becomes clear - the more their picture is confirmed - the less, rather than more, any reason to disbelieve other than outright rejection canbe advanced.<BR>And the new documents have forced no major reinterpretation of history - even though a number of unfortunates have tried their best to prove otherwise.  That is the point.  From the moment they were first publicized, an immense reservoir of pent-up hope has focussed on them, the hope to have finally something to show that eagerly-anticipated vision - a world without Jesus, or at least a Jesus without miracles and without Resurrection.  It simply did not work out that way: the documents, whose focus is really quite narrow, have nothing to say about Jesus and - in spite of frequent allusions to the contrary - have little in common with His views and do nothing to disprove His originality.<BR>A complete English version of what has so far been published is of course necessary; I could however wish that it had been carried out by less partial and less opinionated an authority than Professor Vermes.  Some of Professor V's readings positively damage understanding: in particular, his insistence on placing the common Dead Sea Scroll usage GODS for ANGELS in inverted commas is presumptuous and intrusive, it imposes on the material a presumption of similarity with modern Jewish monotheism that the facts do not warrant.  We know from St.Paul - especially Galatians - that angels were objects of autonomous worship in contemporary Hebraism; and some of the most impressive writing in the Scrolls themselves is placed in the mouth of angels such as Michael (page 523).  The growth of Aeon-worship among the groups called Gnostics tells us the same thing: in Hebraic and Christian environments in the first couple of centuries AD, Angel-worship was the primary temptation.  And we know that a similar evolution had taken place in Zoroastrianism, where the various orders of angels beneath Ahura Mazda developed their own identities and their own all but divine cult.  Indeed, their technical name was YAZATA - &quot;worthy of cult&quot;.  It is under Christian and Muslim influence that post-Massoretic Hebraism returned to an extreme monotheism; the evidence is that, in the first century, Hebraic thought was moving in a quite different direction.  So why, except for prejudice, does Professor Vermes write &quot;gods&quot;?  Incredibly, the words ANGELS and GODS are not even found in the General Index.<BR>Other aspects of his opinionated attitude can be found in many places.  I will just mention one: discussing the Book of Enoch, he says:<br />&quot;The bulk of the fragments is too small for translation.  It would be wholly meaningless to render into English the retranslation into Aramaic of the Ethiopic and/or Greek texts supplied by their editor, J.T. Milik, who has conjecturally filled the many gaps in the Qumran manuscripts.&quot;<br />Excuse me?  Wholly meaningless?  English readers only have a translation of two translations, the Greek and the Ethiopian; Milik has reconstructed the original; and it is &quot;wholly meaningless&quot; to present to the English public a translation of this indubitably better source?  There are many such positions taken with insufficient or no reason.  My advice to people interested in the Dead Sea Scrolls is therefore this: buy and read the book; but be on your guard, and watch carefully, for any one of the many unmotivated, opinionated, and aggressive statements that Professor Vermes unfortunately produces in such quantity.	2003-11-12
US	35010845	R53FFX2K0RL7E	0140193197	145773820	The Hidden Tradition in Europe: The Secret History of Medieval Christian Heresy (Arkana)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Good history, some crankish notions	A collaboration between Penguin, the respectable market leader in classic texts, and Arkana, house publishers for Wiccans, New Agers and cranks of all and every kind, is a remarkable thing indeed.  It practically defines this book, which straddles the borderline between scholarly textbook with real academic distinction, and crank-fest.<BR>Its treatment of its main subject - the medieval dualist religions that arose in various parts of the Christian world from Anatolia to Languedoc - is excellent.  There is continuous reference to primary documents in half a dozen or more languages, and a profound and nuanced knowledge of affairs in areas some of which are particularly obscure - its treatment of the origin of the Bogomil heresy in Bulgaria is masterly, although on the other hand the so-called Bosnian Church is treated in too cursive a manner.  A healthy but not excessive dose of scepticism tells us where documents are insufficient or lacking, where hypotheses, however attractive (such as that of an original contact between the Cathars of South France and the dualists of the Byzantine east), are not provable, or where, conversely, evidence exists and is telling.  And in spite of the fact that the telling of this history is bound to be adverse to the Catholic Church - which was at its worst, itching for crusades and State suppression, just as these religions were at their height - it is a telling reflex on Dr.Stoyanov's fairness and scruple that he rejects a number of anti-Catholic legends, including the notion that the conflict between Catholics and &quot;Bosnian Church&quot; caused the collapse of Bosnia into Ottoman hands and the mass conversion of Bosnians to Islam.  The story, he says, is unsubstantiated, and existing evidence does not fit it; and there's an end.  This is a first-rate historical synthesis, bringing together a large amount of fields and documents in a spirit of real open-minded investigation.<BR>The cranky side, and the reason why this otherwise sober and responsible piece of history must have appealed to the faddists of Arkana, is that Dr.Stoyanov actually believes that there exists a dualist &quot;hidden tradition&quot; in Europe which is alternative to Christianity, and of which his subject are manifestations.  For this reason, he spends a considerable amount of space describing - not without learning - a number of Classical and Eastern traditions, from Zoroastrianism to Pythagoreanism to Manicheism and all the way to Buddhism, which he feels have gone to form his &quot;hidden tradition&quot; of dualism, as manifested in Paulicianism, Bogomilism, Catharism, and the &quot;Bosnian Church&quot;.<BR>This is an untenable view for several reasons.  Firstly, and A PRIORI, the very idea of a counter-Christian &quot;apostolic succession&quot;, handing down the torch of dualism from cult to cult, is far too like one of the basic ideas of Christianity - apostolic succession, exactly - not to suggest a subconscious desire to shape something in the image of the enemy; that is, not a historical object, but a product of more or less unconscious psychological processes.  Secondly, the origins of some of these cults out of Christianity itself are really too well documented to admit of &quot;hidden&quot;, alternative traditions.  Thirdly, this notion has an unhappy aspect of cultural imperialism.  It tries to absorb into its picture everything that takes the shape of revolt against Christianity or any other official religion, and by the same token it ignores what cannot be made to fit.  It is no coincidence that this history ends, dodging mention of Jan Hus and the Bohemian heretics, at the dawning of one genuine alternative tradition - Protestantism; for there is no way that Protestantism, whatever it is, can be made to fit the dualist frame of Dr.Stoyanov's &quot;hidden tradition&quot;.<BR>There actually was an &quot;alternative tradition&quot; in Europe at the time, a religious tradition that evolved with little influence from Christianity and indeed which absorbed all sorts of features from Classical and Dualist sources, from reincarnation to Pythagorean numerology: namely, European Hebraism.  The trouble is that - again - this alternative tradition had nothing to do with the dualist tradition; but it is a pity that more attention is not paid to it in what purport to be culture histories of Europe - a sort of unconscious Christian cultural imperialism which I, as a Christian, deplore.  Dr. Stoyanov mentions them occasionally.<BR>On the whole, this is first-rate work.  Even the early chapters, which I could dispense with - since I do not accept the premise of a dualist &quot;apostolic succession&quot; are done with care and show no visible mistakes: they could pass for an excellent introduction to all sorts of early mystical traditions.  And the core of the book is worth reading for anyone interested in European and Byzantine history.	2003-11-12
US	35010845	R2JO1Y2EXGFM8J	0671026356	836456816	The Evil That Men Do (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	1	6	23	N	N	terrible beyond belief	Let's get one thing straight: I am a Buffy fan, and very glad to be one. This side idolatry, however. And it is mere truth that the second-worst feature of this great series is its unspeakable ignorance of history (the worst is its foolish and illiterate attitude to Christianity). BtVS likes to use long depth of past events; the results are lamentable, because Joss Whedon is one of the unfortunately large amount of people who know nothing about history, but have strong views about it anyway.  All seven series are sodden with this, to the extent that I think I can seriously say that BtVS never once dealt with the past without some major unlikelihood or downright howler.<BR>This is bad enough in the TV series, which has the charm of the interpreters and the frequent genius of Mr.Whedon; it is absolutely disastrous in derivative products. The writer of this novel has had the wretched idea to try to root its menace in the immemorial past, setting half of it in the Roman Empire; her idea of which it would be kind to call ignorant. This would actually be a fairly decent story, though nothing special, but for the dreadful void where an idea of the past should be. It is quite useless to enumerate Ms. Holder's errors (she seems to think that Caligula had something to do with the Fall of the Roman Empire); because the point is not merely the desperate, damaging ignorance, but the fact that she seems altogether unconcerned to do anything about it.  The research for this novel is skimpier and trashier than a Christina Aguilera dress; but it is the mental environment which is hideous, satisfied with its ignorance, indeed actually unwilling to learn, lest the learning spoil its mental images - lest, that is, they may be forced to confront their prejudices against reality. The story as she tells it would not even exist if she had the least idea of Roman realities; any research would be death to the ideas she has conceived.  It is therefore to her advantage to continue not to know,lest her work be made ever so slightly more difficult. That this means that she slanders the past would not, I suppose, trouble her; but she should also realize how counter-educational, how damaging to her readers, it is to deliver such an insane idea of our common background.  She is effectively fostering ignorance for money, making a living as a writer by fostering ignorance. <BR>The slight excuse for this is that it is difficult to set an horror story anywhere but in the modern age. Horror stories set, say, in the Middle Ages, or in Classical Greece, or in Han China, always have to subtly slant the environment to make it suitable for emotions or ideas that are not native to it. Horror is a modern genre, barely older than the Romantic age, and while ancient literatures had plenty of horrible stories to tell, it was the horror of reality, not of imagination: war, pestilence, betrayal, crime, death in its ordinary thousand forms. However, the masters of modern horror all worked hard, if not always successfully, to root their stories in good sound research: think of the elaborate reading, the careful research and intense feeling for the past in the work of, say, H.P.Lovecraft, or of the ecyclopedias, travel books and even railway guides consulted by Bram Stoker for DRACULA.  For one thing, good reading can help any writer; part of the interest of Lovecraft's work is the fascination for the past that he conveys. But even more importantly, bad research is an insult to readers: not only does it say that the writer is ignorant, but that the writer expects readers to be ignorant and does not think them worth the effort. In THE CASE OF CHARLES DEXTER WARD, Lovecraft throws off, off-handedly, the fact that the Black Prince was notorious for a massacre in 1370, or that seventh-century British script had a particular shape (which he correctly imitates), and writes a whole colonial-age romance with names and places all in place. This says to the reader: I think you know all that, and, if that is not the case, I know that you are capable of finding out. Nancy Holder's says: I know that you are too lazy to get off your couch and get a book of reference from the shelf; therefore I will feed you pap in which Christians are being fed to the lions in the Coliseum in 40AD, because the only thing you care about is sex and violence. <BR>This is the horror of this book: the shameless exhibition of its mind. Educators, especially history teachers, should read it as a set text, and shudder. A not uneducated, American citizen, who has enough familiarity with books to want to become a professional writer, has this sort of idea of the past: this is terrible beyond belief. This is what Americans have learned about history. This is what modern education has done to one of its subjects: not only ignorance, but self-satisfaction; not only blind prejudice, but no notion whatever that there is any virtue in trying to broaden your horizons, learn something beyond what you think you know, and discard the figments of the darkness in which you walk. This is not only the ignorance, but the spiritual darkness you have taught them to value.	2003-11-11
US	35010845	R3KNGPATU1D86O	0192800744	243205094	A Dictionary of English Place-Names (Oxford Quick Reference)	Books	2	13	21	N	N	He looks in only one direction for his etymologies	For a while now, I have been noticing, to my displeasure, that the study of etymology - which ought to be a scholarly pursuit - is frequently motivated by a catch-all nationalism that seeks to ascribe as much as possible to a favoured language.  For instance, in his recent DICTIONARY OF CLASSICAL WELSH LEGEND, Peter Bartrum tries, disastrously, to ascribe the obviously English name Gwenfrewi (Winifred) to Welsh origins; which is total nonsense.  The same is true of this otherwise pleasant work of reference, which seems incapable of recognizing any word root that is not Anglo-Saxon.  For instance: in the highly Romanized far south of the country, we find three villages in a valley (Latin UALLIS) Over, Middle and Nether Wallop.  Listen to the desperate shifts to which Mills commits himself rather than suggest that the Valley of Wallop might have preserved a Latin root: &quot;Possibly 'Valley with a spring or stream', Old English WELLA, WAELLA+HOP.  Alternatively, the first element may be Old English WEALL 'a wall' or WALU 'a ridge, an embankment'.&quot;  Not UALLIS, then?  Uh-uh.  Guess not.  Even worse are the etymologies proposed for Costessey (&quot;Island, or dry ground in marsh, of a man called *Cost&quot;; the name being &quot;Old English, or perhaps Scandinavian&quot;) or Antingham (&quot;Homestead of the family or followers of a man called *Anta&quot; - the strange &quot;Anta&quot; being ascribed without hesitation to Old English).  Sir, I have two personal names for you: Constantine and Anthony.  Is it really so difficult to imagine that they might have been known in post-Roman Britain?  Place-name evidence shows that the conquering English allowed the conquered Britons certain amounts of land, some of which - the various Waltons - bear their ethnic name to this day.  We also know that Latin names that did cross over into English tended to lose their final syllable - DUROVERNUM into DOR[CHESTER], AUGUSTA into AUST - and John Morris has made a credible suggestion that the Latin name AMBROSIUS survived in various Central and Southern English place-names in AMBER- ; Ambrosden, Amberley, Ambersham, Amblecote, Arminghall.  So why should Costessey not pertain to the popular British name Constantine, or Antingham to an otherwise unknown Anthony - or indeed, for that matter, to an Antistes or Bishop?  No reason at all, really; except the need to ascribe everything and his brother to the Anglo-Saxons, even at the cost of inventing AS names that are testified nowhere and make no sense whatever in Old English.  The names I have singled out are only two out of dozens.  Until Dr.Mills has uprooted the nationalism from his mind, I do not feel that I can conscientiously recommend this dictionary.	2003-11-11
US	35010845	R1YCWTKABXVX9E	0340159332	626956232	Caesars' Wives	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Attractive - learned - questionable	This is a charming book, learned, often original, with not infrequently valuable insights, which however often veers into romance.  Both ends can be reached within a few pages.  The same chapter holds Perowne's account of Sabina, wife of Hadrian, which is as unproven, not to say fictitious, as any novel (and his denial of &quot;carnal relations&quot; between Hadrian and his beloved slave Antinous is nothing short of absurd); and his remarks on the two Faustinas, wives of Antoninus Pius and Marcus Aurelius, which are judicious, original, and of high interest.  Elsewhere, his suggestion that Livia, bride of Augustus, had a significant effect in humanizing her ruthless husband, seems to me well taken; and his account of the originality of those &quot;Politicke Dames&quot;, the ladies of the Severan dynasty, is full of interest.  (Also, I cannot help but share in his delight in the language of the seventeenth-century English translation of Herodian which he frequently quotes purely for enjoyment.) <BR>Although the result of sound scholarship, this book is not for scholars.  Even where Perowne admits that sources are few and scanty - as with the age of Trajan and Hadrian - his narrative is confident: &quot;Hadrian never forgot Servianus' malignity.&quot;  But this is history for average readers, where conclusions have to be presented in an unadorned manner.  And one has to admit that if it has to be done, then Perowne does it very well indeed.  Likewise, his description of the &quot;Semitic&quot; identity of Severus and Julia Domna may be expressed in terms we would find displeasing, but he does have a point.  Some things I could do without: in particular, although I agree that the abundant and strikingly life-like crop of Imperial portrait statues is a good source, I would not, as he does, try to read character in the portrait.  They may look life-like, but we do not know how like their subjects they were.  (Michael Grant did better in his THE CLIMAX OF ROME, another popular rather than scholarly work, using the portrait statues as symptoms of the evolution of Roman art, with important historical implications.)<BR>I find this book equally valuable as an insight into the bankruptcy, or rather the historical failure, of the ordinary conservative mind.  I have no doubt that the author, who sneers at pop musicians and writes an aristocratically simple and consciously elegant English, regards himself as conservative, an enemy of modern nonsense and degeneracy; but in fact, he is himself in thrall to the most destructive of all features of modernity, namely relativism.  His passage about the Latin idea of morality could have been written by the most aggressive enemy of morals: &quot;Shocking as it may appear, the word 'moral' carries, in origin, no moral sanction whatever.  The Latin word MOS means (to quote from the standard [English-Latin dictionary] known as LEWIS AND SHORT): 'MANNER, CUSTOM, WAY, USAGE, PRACTICE, FASHION, WONT, AS DETERMINED NOT BY THE LAWS BUT BY MEN'S WILL AND PLEASURE'.  The case for Roman morals could not be better put:'fashion, determined by will and pleasure'.&quot; [page 18]<BR>This is nonsense, total nonsense, and dangerous nonsense.  Firstly, it is plainly wrong.  The meaning of a root word such as MOS does not determine the meaning of a derivative such as MORAL.  A word once formed acquires its own meaning, which may be different from, or even contradictory to, its origin; otherwise you'd have to say that computers should only do computus, or that the police should only operate in city-states (POLEIS).  Second, some usages of MOS itself carry an absolutely compulsive moral meaning: in particular, MOS MAIORUM or PATRUM, &quot;the way our ancestors behaved&quot;, which is the final moral court of appeal for every Roman.  (The same is true, of course, for Chinese Confucian and Hebraic Old Testament morality.)  The fact that LEWIS AND SHORT does not distinguish between this central meaning of MOS and its lesscompulsive developments only goes to show that the classic English rhetoric of relativism - which consists in piling up many opposing examples of anything, uprooted from their original context, to &quot;demonstrate&quot; that nothing can be determined with certainty - has become so habitual that it has taken root even in basic works of reference.  But that a habit of mind has become common does not mean that it is correct.<BR>This view is clearly not conservative but brutally destructive.  You neither can nor should separate the idea of behaviour - which is what MOS really means - from the idea of right and wrong behaviour; any more than you can separate the idea of car repairs from the idea of right and wrong car repairs.  Philosophers invented the word &quot;ethics&quot; (Latin &quot;morals&quot;) for the study of human habits and behaviour; ETHOS in Greek and MOS in Latin mean nothing else than &quot;habits, behaviour - especially settled behaviour&quot;.  It just naturally became the study of RIGHT AND WRONG BEHAVIOUR; Socrates and Plato, Zeno and Aristotle and Epicurus and Plotinus and Augustine of Hippo, all would have agreed that the study of ETHOS or MOS, of human behaviour, centres on the concepts of right and wrong.  This is what relativism rebels against... in vain; for every word you use in ordinary conversation denies it.  When you say that you do or do not like someone's behaviour, it always means that you approve or disapprove of what they do on moral grounds.  Normal human beings always see behaviour in terms of right and wrong.<BR>In other words, what Mr.Perowne, like too many conservatives, wishes to preserve, is not any kind of enduring truth, but rather what was fashionable when he was young.  It is typical of him that his account of the rise of Christianity rehashes the stalest platitudes of post-Enlightenment historicistic theory - Pagan religiosity had &quot;decayed&quot;, Eastern religions were fashionable, etc. - recently contradicted, witha wealth of excellent argument, by Robin Lane Fox (PAGANS AND CHRISTIANS); or even that he delivers a Bultmannite account of the New Testament.  Conservative?  HUNH!!	2003-11-10
US	35010845	R3AU2758OIEYAA	0310228735	854069532	NIV Compact Dictionary of the Bible	Books	2	8	51	N	N	Learned, capable defence of bad science and bad Christianity	The stereotypical view of American Fundamentalists is of chinless, in-bred, redneck ignorami with the brain functions of a warthog.  One could wish that it were so; but in actual fact, Fundamentalists can be highly intelligent, widely educated, and quite good writers.  What is more, in the desperate attempt to suit their crazed beliefs to any kind of reality, they are capable of astonishing creativity; witness for instance the recent Fundamentalist \\"study\\" of Greek literature by Robert Bowie Johnson, Jr., ATHENA AND KAIN: THE TRUE MEANING OF GREEK MYTH, more akin to a science-fiction or fantasy novel than to anything describeable as scholarship, but almost dazzling in its prodigies of misinvention and misassociation.<BR>The present dictionary is a fair, one might almost say a moderate, study of the central object of their obsessions.  Much of it can be of use to anyone interested in the Bible: neither the Hebrew etymologies nor much of the historical material can be reproached.  It is only when we come to such statements as that Moses actually spoke the words of Deuteronomy (page 303), which no serious scholar believes, or the nuanced but unmistakable assertions contained in the entry \\"creation\\" (pp.133-135) that one catches sight of the authors' real agenda: the denial of scientific evidence and the revolt against reason - and as Chesterton said, to revolt against reason is bad theology.<BR>But it is not only the basic irrationality of Fundamentalism that is unorthodox and unChristian: bad theology is much closer to the surface.  While it might not interest non-Christian readers, the book's explanation of the Hebrew name of God is so heretical that I want to quote it in full: \\"The name is related to the Hebrew verb 'to be', 'to be actually present'. 'I am who I am' means either 'I am actively present as and when I choose' or 'I bring to pass whatever I choose'.\\"  That it might simply mean, what it was translated to mean in the Italian Bible I read as a child; whatOur Lord clearly understood it to mean when he said \\"before Abraham or Isaac was, I AM\\"; what the verb demands that it should mean - I am He Who is; I am the actually existent - does not seem to occur to messrs. Douglas and Tenney.  They prefer a meaning that would cover any supernatural being - \\"I am actually present as and when I choose\\" - or one that describes a tyrant with no moral connotation - \\"I bring to pass whatever I choose\\".<BR>What is cryingly obvious is that both of these mistranslations refuse to deal with Existence itself, dodging the suspicion that God might, after all, have anything to do with it; preferring to concentrate on the gaudy externals of mere power - He appears (\\"I am actually present as and when I choose\\"); He does things, preferably miraculous ones (\\"I bring to pass whatever I choose\\").  This is not only rotten explanation, but shows a habit of mind to avoid central issues and focus on the externals of power, such as we see in the constant Fundamentalist stress on \\"miracles\\" and \\"healing\\".<BR>All the same, Christians interested in Bible studies could do worse - taking due precautions - than to get a copy of this book.  Its scholarship, within its own terms, is quite good, and the format is both compact and comprehensive.  It is exactly the fact that this is respectable work done by respectable people, that shows the sheer danger of Fundamentalism.	2003-11-07
US	35010845	R2ETX8OFQRPWFL	0712674993	680386973	THE SUNKEN KINGDOM: ATLANTIS MYSTERY SOLVED (PIMLICO)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	He is probably right	This is a curious piece of work.  Peter James is not an academic, but a popular writer; however, he has a thorough grounding in academic research, and his work is most often dignified and useful.  This has the making of a first-rate piece of research: the solution it proposes is built on very well-grounded view of the evolution of Greek legend, and involves a minimum of unlikelihoods (although some of it depends on whwther we can expect a Greek noble family to preserve traditions altogether unknown outside its circle, since James' solution involves the handing down of garbled accounts of a major disaster into Plato's own family, which was very blue-blooded indeed).  Indeed, if it was a matter of the theory alone, I would say that James is probably right and recommend this book unreservedly.<BR>However, there are features about it that remind us that James is a popularizer, not to say a vulgarizer.  The historical account of the theory of Atlantis is justified and pleasant, but the silly partisan defence of Plato is simply overblown posturing verging on the crankish; nor does Plato need it.  This is a valid piece of work, but one could wish that James had given it a different shape.	2003-11-07
US	35010845	R2DSH3Q5BVWV3A	0813337933	859837837	The Vanished Kingdom: Travels Through The History Of Prussia	Books	1	17	94	N	N	A pack of nationalistic lies	This book should never have been published.  One thing we do not need is nostalgia for Prussia - a state that was hated, while it existed, by all its neighbours, that expanded by systematic aggression and banditry, and that became joyfully identified with a doctrine of extreme immoralism in politics and military aggression as the basis of international relations.  The author feels the need to slander the Poles in order to make us forget not only what Hitler did, but what Prussia had been doing to them since the First Partition; so he represents them as drunks and congenital Jew-baiters (but Poland had the largest Jewish population in Europe - until Germany decided to do something about it).  Other reviewers have said what needed to be said about the rotten double standards, the lousy history and map, the racism, the single-minded intention to rewrite history - but I have one more thing to say: find me another country in European history that ever drew, throughout its history, the hatred and contempt that Prussia drew from the age of Frederick the so-called Great to Hitler.  If Prussia was so great, why did it manage the unusual feat of (for instance) making Chesterton and Kipling unanimous in their detestation?  Is there another nation that has so managed to unify Europe, uninting it three times over - in the Seven Years' War, and in the two World Wars - in war, and uniting it constantly in dislike?  And it is always those who knew Prussia and Prussian Germany best, that hated it the most: unlike France in the age of the Sun King and of Napoleon - where people fought French aggression but imitated French art and administration - and unlike the USA today, nobody ever wanted to imitate Prussia once they had seen what it was like.  People like F.D.Roosevelt, who spent one year there as a young man, went back home with a rooted dislike to the whole Prussian/German system that was to have long-lasting results.  Believe me, Mr.Roy, the biggest favour anyone ever did to Germany was done in 1945 and included the complete territorial destruction of Prussia.  As for the Hindenburg family vaults being used as a garbage dump - well, it hardly counts as a change of use, does it?rmany was done in 1945 and included the complete territorial destruction of Prussia.  As for the Hindenburg family vaults being used as a garbage dump - well, it hardly counts as a change of use, does it?	2003-11-07
US	35010845	R2A4ZVVGFS4NEC	0192801201	223192375	Dictionary of Celtic Mythology (Oxford Quick Reference)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Useful but flawed	Quite frankly, if this is the best reference work on Celtic legends and culture, this only goes to show how very bad the rest are.  Other reviewers have pointed out the irrelevant English items and very bad etymology; I would like to add that the book is infuriatingly uneven in its references.  Some I have been able to track down; other entries have no origin listed at all, which has resulted, in one case, in a desperate and completely unavailing trawl through EVERY TITLE in the Brittany bibliography - and that for a reference which is absolutely fundamental to my research.  I know this particular character and folk-tale exist; they must, because other facts I encountered confirm that they must; but because Mr. MacKillop has not given his source for his description, I am unable to proceed.  And that is not the only case in which the entries let me down.  It is pointless to write a reference dictionary if you are not going to give references!	2003-10-25
US	35010845	RTNA95EGBSBQA	0520046552	288514401	The Goddesses and Gods of Old Europe: Myths and Cult Images, New and Updated Edition	Books	1	27	112	N	N	misinterpretative madness	When I first read this book, it confirmed a feeling I had then: that archaeologists should be forbidden by law to make any attempt at culture history.  It is nonsense, pure and simple; a wild attempt at inventing a \\"matriarchalist\\" past for Europe that ignores even its own evidence.  To give one instance of its lunacy, it argues that war only entered Gimbutas' imagined \\"Old European\\" culture with the evil patriarchalist Indo-Europeans and their steppe-bred war axes... and then goes on to tell us that wooden palisades (that is, FORTIFICATIONS) were a regular feature of \\"Old European\\" settlements!  What were they meaning to keep out, wolves?  Gimbutas' archaeological work is not without value, but when it comes to interpreting it, a moron or a politician could do better.  She simply is trapped in the foolish ideology of the \\"great goddess\\", a pathetic though unortunately popular reflex of contemporary political obsession.  Luckily, I have since found out that some archaeologists (for instance, Filippo Coarelli) DO read and understand anthropology, culture history, comparative sociology, etc. - but as for this sort of stuff, leave it to Wiccans and other ignorami.	2003-10-25
US	35010845	RACJON8CLE8OO	0671894412	221450502	All the President's Men	Books	5	9	11	N	N	a pre-emptive strike against revisionism	In the sub-genre of journalistic memoir, there simply is no book better than this.  It is written still in the heat of battle - as it was being put together, Nixon had not yet resigned - and conveys the sense of being under pressure from public power, from the fears and lack of cooperation of individuals, and from their own human fallibility; conveys it better than anything except, perhaps, a war diary.  As writing, it has not aged.  And it is worth having for one very good reason: that Watergate has shrunk in the memory.  After many succeeding penny-ante scandals, artificially built up to be something they were not, it is important to remember that the President at the time did not go down for the silly raid on the National Democratic Committee, nor even for having a few outright sleazeballs in his ante-room, but - to put it bluntly - for turning the White House into a criminal association within the meaning of the act.  Secret intelligence, slush funds acquired from corrupt businessmen, sabotage, slander, destruction of documents, behind-the-scenes fixing - even arson and threats of violence - were the daily bread of the Nixon camp, the way they did business.  If they had a choice between a legal and an illegal way to do anything, they chose, not the legal one - nor even the one that made most sense in terms of non-moral efficiency - but the illegal one, as a sort of constitutional preference.  There has never been anything like this in the White House, before or - fortunately - since: everything that may be quoted against any other President, up to and including Teapot Dome and Ulysses Grant's inglorious time in office, simply pales in front of the daily, routine criminality of the Nixon men.  At the time, the Republican Party at large was quite clear that the Nixonites were an entity apart, dedicated purely to the personal power of the President.  And long before the Plumbers ever broke into Watergate, Richard Nixon was in hock and virtually paying blackmail tothem and to similarly unscrupulous characters for a score of illegal acts; in the end, that, more than any break-in, made the exposure of the President virtually inevitable.<BR>Just as inevitable, of course, is revisionism.  I know that someone called Colodny has come up with an \\"alternative\\" account that charges that John Dean arranged for the break-in to cover up for his wife's involvement in a call-girl ring and then sold the President and his colleagues down the river to protect himself; and that Alexander Haig worked against the President and manipulated Woodward and Bernstein.  The second statement is highly unlikely, in view of the fact that nobody comes out of THE LAST DAYS - the book that followed this - worse than Haig, who is shown to be a smooth careerist whose \\"military\\" career saw him go from Colonel to four-star General within six years at the White House, and who has loyalty for nobody but himself; a strange way to promote him to the public.  The first only shifts the blame from one Nixon sleazeball to another, without doing anything to alter the fact that the Nixon administration, as a whole, was corrupt with a depth and thoroughness that, while not unfamiliar in American municipal politics, was and remains unique at national level.  The evidence is beyond denial, and plenty of it is aired in this book - unbreakable paper trails such as the cheque signed by a perfectly honest Republican fundraiser called Kenneth H. Dahlberg, which ended up in the bank account of one of the burglars: with this sort of hard fact staring at us in the face, what does it matter whether John Dean lied or not?<BR>Indeed, the best way to understand what happened in America between 1969 and 1973 may perhaps be to think of the politics of Chicago or Tammamy Hall transplanted to the federal level: comparison with corrupt Third World regimes is not very helpful, because Third World politics do not have the elaboration, thoroughness and reach that Nixonism had.<BR>This, in the end, is the main value of this memoir: as a sort of pre-emptive strike against revisionism, reminding us that - whatever its ramifications - the Watergate affair was unique in its extent and depth, and should never be simply normalized in memory by aligning it with footling items about smeared cigars and hanging chads.	2003-10-25
US	35010845	R10392OMH8ORE6	0140134433	547596669	The Use and Abuse of History	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very clever, but his brains go to his head	I am perhaps the wrong person to be saying this - anyone who browses through my reviews will discover plenty of certainties - but there is something about the brilliant, all too brilliant Sir Moses I. Finley that is thoroughly off-putting.  He is often right; but not as often as he is certain that he is right - and worse, that he is clever.  Some of the historians he condemns may have richly deserved their condemnation; nevertheless, there is a sense that he is kneeling at the altar of his own genius and burning odorous incense to himself.<BR>Having said that, his studies are almost uniformly important and often indispensable.  It is remarkable how one not particularly long or comprehensive article about Sparta - reprinted here - has managed to set the stage for studies about Laconia ever since; and yet Sparta as such was a bit of a side-show to Finley, whose main interests were in law, society and economics.  It is very difficult to investigate any aspect of Classical Greek and Roman civilization without, sooner or later, having to deal with his views; and for that reason alone, his books should always be read.  There is also the fact that, however irritating his sense of superiority may be, he so often takes moral positions that are eminently sane, sensible and acceptable.  There are few freaks with Sir Moses; and plenty of insights; but there is always that slight sense of self-satisfaction...	2003-10-25
US	35010845	R2MJA2QYVSGU89	0671035789	225018538	The Klingon Hamlet	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Perfect in its own way, and thought-provoking	What a mad, hilarious enterprise this is.  If anyone thinks this is merely a discharge of nerdishness, let them try and translate a whole Shakespeare play in ANY language - let alone one in which expressions and ways of thought have to be invented along with metre and rhyme.  And as a matter of fact, this is not merely a well-made piece of whimsy: the emphasis of its &quot;critical&quot; parts on the warrior identity of &quot;Khamlet&quot; and the meaning of his sense of disgrace provide a useful, thought-provoking contrast to much of the &quot;terran&quot; critical tradition, which tends to neglect that Hamlet is a prince, a swordsman, a potential military leader, and that the warrior Fortinbras thought that &quot;He was likely, had he been put on/ To have proved most royal&quot;.	2003-10-04
US	35010845	R171KFFOX518XJ	0312981716	768754381	The Pale Horse (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	44	47	N	N	A meditation on detective stories and on evil	Nothing is more stupid, unanimous, superstitious, and pointless, than the universal habit of running down Agatha Christie as a writer.  Even fellow crime writers who ought to acknowledge their debt to one of the absolute masters of the genre, are in the habit, when looking for any kind of literary respectability, to start by pooh-poohing her (thus Ruth Rendell, P.D.James, et caetera).<BR>In point of fact, whatever a great writer is, Agatha Christie was one.  Some of her stories are forgettable, many formulaic: but she has written at least a dozen, probably more, that count as classics of the language.  The fact is that her kind of excellence runs absolutely counter to modern concerns.  She can write stylish prose if she really wants to; she can create vivid and fascinating characters if she really wants to; but most of the time she is not too concerned with either of these things.  Her characters are simple and reducible to a few primary types - like those of Homer.  Her plots are what she really lavishes attention on (this book has a wonderful vignette of an author singularly like Dame Agatha herself, cudgelling her brains in despair to make some sense of a character's silly but necessary actions), and they are superlative.  Properly read, they both express human values and generate great emotion; her denouements are never purely revelations of past events, but always insights into the minds of murderers, accomplices, and victims, into the logic of their situations, into the pressures that drive human beings.  It has been said that her stories exist only for the sake of the denouement; if this is true at all, it is meaningless, since denouements do not exist by themselves but are a function of everything that has gone on before, and only work if the whole work has been carefully crafted.  Christie, of course, approaches storytelling not as an opportunity for self-expression, but as a skill to be learned and used: she is not out to impress her cleverness on us - indeed, she does not think she is very clever - but to make us like her stories; and so, even poor Christie stories are never less than carefully crafted.<BR>But in this book, written in the autumn of her life, she tries something different, which in some ways goes beyond anything she had done elsewhere (with the possible exception of her first out-and-out masterpiece, EVIL UNDER THE SUN).  It is a book about the reality of evil, about evil in real human life, about the kind of people who would in fact make a living by hurting and destroying others - and of the forces that drive them.  Her conclusion is bleak, sensible, and probably quite true: evil is a matter of inadequacy, of small men feeling their smallness.  There is \\"no demonic majesty, no black and evil splendour\\"; those are almost a consoling disguise which decent ordinary people prefer to place on the reality of evil, petty, mean and indecent as it is, to escape the vision of its depressing and familiar ordinariness.  This, ladies and gentlemen, is the moral reflection of an author so often accused of being shallow and unintelligent; and not many philosophers have done better.	2003-09-14
US	35010845	RBLACGRV2EUBX	2070736563	249574922	Mythe et épopée (Bibliothèque des sciences humaines) (French Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	&quot;A more than encyclopedic master...&quot;	&quot;A more than encyclopedic master&quot; is what Claude Levy-Strauss called Georges Dumezil in his speech in the ceremony of induction in the French Academy.  And the description is only slightly exaggerated.  This great scholar, rescuer of a lost language (Ubykh) and knower of more than forty, discoverer of a whole vast cultural complex, and capable, when he wanted to, of dabbling at will in Hebraic culture or Quechua language, was something the modern world had almost forgotten: the synthetizing, large-scale research historian, a Gibbon or Mommsen, writing enormous accounts that cover a nearly infinite amount of topics, and certainly not feeling excluded from any aspect of human knowledge.  This titanic compilation, MYTHE ET EPOPEE, is an attempt at synthetizing his many and various discoveries; but, while in every other respect a masterpiece (including a prose that belongs among the greatest ever written in French), it fails to find a suitable form to contain discoveries so vast, so multifarious, so different in scope and significance.  Therefore each of its three volumes has different structures.  The first is a study of threee epic traditions - the Indian MAHABHARATA, the AENEID of Virgil, and the legends of the Narts of the Caucasus - treated as large wholes and encouraged to explain themselves.  The second is a group of studies of single if important episodes of Indian epic and what comparison with other Indo-European stories tells us about their origin and meaning.  The third looks at various episodes of Roman national legend in the same light.  The wayward shape of the whole collection of studies is further reinforced by a generous helping of appendices, whose connection to the central groups of works is sometimes rather loose.<BR>This is not even a quibble; it is a symptom of the sheer enormity of the field that Dumezil investigated.  He had gone in so many different directions that a coherent summary of his work is neithr desirable nor possible.  In every respect, this is a work to treasure.  The amount of insights into the origin and significance of stories and other cultural features is literally beyond computation; every page will introduce you to something both new and fascinating.  One cannot say that Dumezil was right always and everywhere, but the ultimate value of his work resides both in the immense amount of valuable insights he has had and in his quite unusual ability to engage with his sources, reading texts with a critical insight and empathy rare in every critic.  A masterpiece, an indispensable work.	2003-09-13
US	35010845	R1TIIJYIXKZIGA	1897959257	544819234	Warrant for Genocide: The Myth of the Jewish World Conspiracy and the Protocols of the Elders of Zion	Books	3	25	42	N	N	journalistic and limited, but useful	In spite of the claims on the  back cover, this is anything but a scholarly study.  It is journalistic in manner and nature, tending to the sensational, relying on secondary sources; it can be accused of bias, especially towards the Catholic Church, and its view of the social reasons for the rise of Nazism in Germany are mechanical, unperceptive and unexplaining (so the lower bourgoisie was being squeezed to death by big business - was that happening in Germany alone?).  Cohn gleefully notices that two successive Popes honoured an elderly French churchman guilty of anti-Semitic scribblings with the title of Protonatary Apostolic, but does not tell us - or perhaps he does not know - why this honorary title was awarded, and how much of politicking and Buggins' Turn there is about these appointments.  Nor does he say anything about the increasingly determined stand of Pius XI, who opposed Nazism and squashed Action Francaise: if one were to judge by this book, this firm and obstinately independent Pope could be taken to be a sort of useful idiot for Mussolini and Hitler.  My interest in the Catholic Church, to which Cohn is moderately but unmistakably hostile, certainly colours my views; but it is not the only way in which Cohn tends to misrepresent the facts, always in the direction of excessive simplicity.  To give one instance, he says that the Nazi murder squads \\"went blithely about their business\\" with no evidence of any revulsion; in point of fact, there is plenty of evidence that instinctive, physical revulsion had to be suppressed again and again.  According to Trevor-Roper, the horrors of the cattle trucks drove their attendants mad; and I read that the soldiers' toilets in concentration camps had grabbing bars for any soldier who, overcome by the horror of his duties, should need to vomit.<BR>There is no denying Cohn's basically journalistic attitude.  Not that there is anything wrong with being journalistic, so long as it is not taken for anything more profound.  This is not one of the great studies of Nazism; it will not give you the nuanced and profound insights of Kershaw, Fest or Bullock, the detail and personal view of Shirer, or the literary magnificence of Trevor-Roper.  It is perfectly serviceable for what it is, an account of a peculiarly successful forgery that played an important part in the successive bouts of anti-Semitism that convulsed the lunatic fringe in recent European history, and that once, in 1933, got lucky in Germany.<BR>An underlying problem must be pointed out: Cohn's language, if not everything he says, often seems to imply that the PROTOCOLS OF THE ELDERS OF ZION were themselves a force in what happened, rathern than a symptom; he often almost speaks as though they were a positive agent in the spread of anti-Semitism, almost like a bacillus that works by infection.  No, obviously; if the people who read this trash had not been willing to hate in the first place - if they had not sought a target for their own need to justify their own failings - the PROTOCOLS would have had no effect, as indeed they did not have any on the vast majority of sane mankind.	2003-09-07
US	35010845	R1WYARF9NFBHW4	0880293926	147231792	King Henry V: A Biography	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Conqueror and destroyer	The material to understand this late-medieval conqueror is more abundant than one realizes: not only detailed chronicles, State documents and accounts of his wars, but personal anecdotes and financial records.  And Hutchison makes good use of it, working not from secondary but from primary sources, giving a detailed, perceptive and highly readable account of a remarkable individual.  If he works to contrast the Henry of history with the Henry of Shakespeare, that is understandable and indeed right, since it is through the plays - and especially through Laurence Olivier's unforgettable film - that most of us have become aware, if at all, of the fame and success of this usurper's son.  Hutchison treats his subject with a sympathy that does not stop short of admiration, giving just and honourable due to all his remarkable qualities - able politician, bold and independent mind, excellent organizer, and finally, as everyone knows, superlative soldier.  Yet his final verdict is inevitably negative: Henry stiffened the social situation of England, threw the country into a war which it did not have the resources to maintain, and which - but for his genius - would have ended in disaster early on (there is something very telling about the frenzied rejoicing which greeted his victories); brutalized his followers, degraded the rule of warfare, and, in the end, presided over the spiritual impoverishment and material ruin of two great countries, as the great age of Chaucer and the Roman de la Rose died out in a sea of blood and even the military glory of Henry gave way, not so much to the splendid but brief phenomenon of St.Joan of Arc, as to the crooked and cruel practical politics of Louis XI, the establishment of brutal royal tyranny in France and the collapse into civil war in England.  Like that of all conquerors - think of Alexander of Macedon, of Gengis Khan, of Napoleon, Wallenstein, Gustavus Adolphus, Charles XII of Sweden, Hitler - Henry's ultimate legacy was purely one of collapse and negation: he achieved nothing except a blaze of unconstructive glory.of collapse and negation: he achieved nothing except a blaze of unconstructive glory.	2003-09-04
US	35010845	R3OA46HT3XI75Q	0500019894	86171017	Celtic Saints: Passionate Wanderers	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Inadequate, though not as bad as it could be	The study of what is usually called Celtic Christianity is in a parlous state.  Except for particular issues such as the life of Patrick - where Dumville?s recent collection of studies has managed to shed as much darkness as light - little of note has happened since E.C.Bowen's questionable but at least scholarly study of the connection between \\"Saints and seaways\\" in the sixties, and practically no translation has been published since A.W.Wade-Evans' erratic 1944 collection, which is written in abominable English and leaves the Welsh-language LIVES untranslated; and, before him, we have to go back to the still more erratic Llandovery translations of W.J.Rees, dated 1854, and containing not only mistranscriptions and mistranslations, but actual grammatical mistakes IN ENGLISH!<BR>Not, alas, that this means that the subject is left untouched.  Where the real scholars don't bother going, the popular scribblers wander at will.  A real cottage industry has sprung up about \\"Celtic spirituality\\", and this book, while not belonging to its lunatic fringe, is clearly a part of it.  What scholarship there is in it, is dated and unperceptive; assertions, especially as to the periods in which various saints lived, go unsupported; and the whole is bathed in a sentimental air that shows its desire to flatter the reader rather than to lead to any understanding of the subject.  Also, while it annexates the Curch of early Northumbria to the Celtic world because of the influence of missionaries such as St. Aidan, it altogether neglects Brittany; could it be because to investigate it would require reading texts in Latin and - heaven preserve us - in FRENCH?<BR>Altogether, I cannot recommend this book either as a general introduction to its subject or as a study.  Those who can, would be well advised to read Sabine Baring-Gould and John Fisher's ancient (1904) four-volume account of the Celtic saints, which is sometimes mutton-headed but has at least the virtues of thoroughness and consistency.	2003-09-04
US	35010845	R1876JD1BAEG93	0582485444	827469457	The Age of Plunder: The England of Henry VIII, 1500-1547 (Social and Economic History of England Series)	Books	5	6	12	N	N	The title says it all, really...	That Henry VIII was, without exception, the worst king ever to rule England, is no longer a very daring proposition to make; the comparison of this bloated and suspicious tyrant with Stalin, made in the final paragraphs of this excellent study, is by now, if not exactly scholarly orthodoxy - writers will always be found to defend the indefensible, if the indefensible has something to do with English self-regard - at least a well-known and legitimate point of view.  The importance of this textbook is that, before coming to its devastating conclusions, it gives an excellent, nuanced and expert account of the whole economic condition of England in the fat murderer's time, including all the many sides in which his execrable reign did not and could not make a great amount of difference to his subjects; so that, by the time the savage condemnation of Hoskins' final paragraphs falls like a guillotine, the reader not only has all the evidence necessary to appreciate it, but also has seen enough to know that the account, though hostile, is rigorously fair and comprehensive.  The condemnation is therefore that much more significant and conclusive.	2003-09-04
US	35010845	R18IADIV3WHDMU	0674548051	549723591	Manifest Destiny and Mission in American History	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Did he take all factors into consideration?	The words \\"Manifest destiny\\" are associated, in the popular mind, with the whole conquering outburst that, in less than a century, managed to expand the area of white English-speaking settlement in what are now the United States of America from a group of thinly settled communities on the East Coast to a continent-wide nation numbering in the hundreds of millions.  It associates this conquering outburst with the taint of nationalistic and bellicose arrogance, of chauvinism and brutality; and may therefore be said to taint even further the already inevitably bloody business of conquest and settlement.<BR>At the height of American self-confidence and belief, at the beginning of the sixties, Frederick Merk set out to disprove this popular image; and showed, with a wealth of documentary evidence, that the actual jingoistic \\"Manifest Destiny\\" episode was nothing more than a short-lived craze, such as the US are seized with from time to time, peaking, but also falling apart, with the notorious 1848 war against Mexico.  Merk observes that, while in the light of events the superiority of the USA over Mexico seems obvious, it was by no means so clear to contemporaries: the military establishment of Mexico was considerably larger than the peacetime US army, and the Mexicans would be fighting on their own soil.  Yet the American army, thanks largely to a stiffening of the officer corps with civilians trained in the numerous American military academies and recalled to arms, proved the more efficient and effectively conquered Mexico.  At that point, the vociferous \\"Manifest destiny\\" lobby, which had supported President Polk's cold and deliberate move towards war, was faced, not with the opportunity to spout about unifying (in some remote future visible only to rhetoricians and fools) a whole continent, but with the real choice: was an American Union of twenty million largely Protestant English speakers to absorb the indigestible morsel of a Mexico of eight million Spanish-speaking Catholics, spread over an enormous territory, naturally tumultuous, and separated from the main areas of Anglo settlement by prairies, mountains and deserts?  Faced with this choice, the Manifest Destiny lobby fell silent; and that, argues Merk, was by and at large the end of it.  He can trace no direct influence of any sort from the copious pamphleteering of the early forties on later American debate and politics; the Manifest Destiny craze, as crazes do, had died out.<BR>The objection to this picture is fairly obvious.  There is one absolutely silent partner at Merk's party - one of which, indeed, he never makes mention, who does not even appear in the Index: the Indians.  At all times, before, during, and after the Manifest Destiny craze, the Western frontier was rolling inexorably forwards, plowing under its farmsteads and its cattle all the earlier inhabitants of the land.  Does this not fall under the tag of brutality and arrogance of Manifest Destiny?  Well, no.  Manifest Destiny, as such, was a movement aimed more at the Western element in North America - not only the successor states of the old Spanish empire, but also Britain's remaining colonies in Canada and the Caribbean - than at any Indian.  The destruction of the Indian tribes was the background to it, rather than its core: its argument was that BECAUSE the inexorable Anglo wave was rolling over every Indian tribe in North America, THEREFORE it was its \\"destiny\\" to sweep over Mexico and Canada as well.  As for the destruction of the Indians, it was not the product of any craze - even of any intellectual or political theory at all - but of desperately objective conditions.  Most Indian tribes did not farm, living typical hunter-gatherer tribes; therefore, to the citizens of a Republic of farmers - industrialization was only beginning in America at the time - their land appeared empty.  (It is significant that the Indian tribe that has most successfully survived American conquest, the Navajo, is a farming one, famous for their orchards.)  To a farmer, to bring a tract of grassland under the plough is the natural business of life; it does not impinge on his consciousness, let alone on his conscience, that there is someone else who claims the land, making what he regards as an idle and wasteful use of it. Given the contact between any population of farmers, American or not, and a population of hunter-gatherers settled on potential farming land, the result is inevitable; and while it may SHAPE a mentality of conquest, it does not ARISE from one.<BR>Merk insists that Manifest Destiny is no fundamental component of the American mentality; that the really fundamental component of American attitudes to world politics can be summed up in the word \\"Mission\\".  To some extent this may be seen as too optimistic, not so much in the matter of Manifest Destiny as in the more general one of crazes - McCarthyism will be the one that springs to everyone's mind, though in actual fact Senator McCarthy was a kitten compared to the really cruel and savage \\"Red scare\\" of 1919.  Crazes and witch-hunts are frequent and apparently inevitable features of the American mind.  But having said all that, I still find Merk's argument, within certain limits, quite convincing; for crazes come and go, but the American itch for Mission seems permanent.	2003-09-04
US	35010845	R3FI7MPH8CHL5N	0393318397	296671544	Semites and Anti-Semites: An Inquiry into Conflict and Prejudice	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A dreadful threat to the future	The bout of Jew-hate that convulsed Europe until the fall of Hitler was in effect an episode, a long-lived but ultimately futile piece of social pathology dependent not on any positive  religion - though Bernard Lewis' opening remarks tend to argue otherwise - but rather on a socio-cultural convulsion due to various kinds of cultural maladjustment (among which I would place very high an unconscious desire to neutralize or destroy the Christian religion by striking at its ancestor).  In its essentials, I believe it was an episode and no more.  Except for the lunatic fringe, it and all its products have been consigned to the dustbin of culture history, and, but for the horror of what arose from them, the PROTOCOLS OF THE ELDERS OF ZION and such things would be a subject for jokes.<BR>In the Arab world, however, what was a craze - and never without opponents; at no point was the wave of so-called anti-Semitism ever without opponents in the West - has become the consensus; and shows signs of embedding itself into the culture too deep to be removed.  What is worse, it has been accepted with no discussion, debate or serious opposition.  Debate in Arab culture is difficult - due mainly to the tyrannical natures of most states, that makes it difficult to engage in unperturbed opposition of views which may well have official backing - but not impossible; and many things do in fact get debated with earnest intelligence.  The legend of the evil Jew, however, is not one of these things: practically no Muslim voice of any importance has challenged it; and even if anyone did, they would be wasting their time, since Arab and Muslim public opinion simply would not listen.  The Arab and Muslim world has eaten, swallowed and digested the sin of the West; metabolised the worst of our social pathologies, as though there was anything to gain by doing so.<BR>The excuse for this, of course, is the rise of the State of Israel; but, quite apart from the fact that the new Arab Anti-Semitism(and yes, I know it is a contradiction in terms) has actually made the Arabs less capable of understanding and dealing with their enemy (witness the widespread conspiracy theory that the Israeli troops and aircraft during the Six Days' War were in fact led and manned by Americans), I think this is to some extent a pretext.  Arabs had been flirting with German philosophies, with totalitarianism and racism, well before the foundation of the Jewish State - the root of the Baath party, founded in the thirties, is in a typically Fascist mixture of nationalism and socialism leavened with a mystique of group love.  These phenomena arose from the failure of the Arab nation to deal with the modern world, and their embedding in the Arab psyche, with their corollary of conspiracy theory, simply diminishes further their ability to do so.  Conspiracy theory is not a way, however pathological, to deal with the complexities of the real world; it is a way to deny them.<BR>This horrendous process is documented in quite intolerable detail in this excellent book, and God knows there is enough to be said about it.  Bernard Lewis shows himself, if anything, too fair to the Arabs.  Perhaps the most frightening feature is the calm, even polite way in which the most vicious drivel is spouted with no understanding either of its odiousness or of its sheer ignorance; what one might call the innocence of evil.  This is a deeply troubling book, not only for what it says about any future possibility of peace with Israel, but for the more basic issue of the Arab attitude to a world they perceive as hostile, ranged against them, existing in a monstrous conspiracy to crush and destroy them.  It cannot be healthy for one of the great nations of the world to live in a state of permanent fear and hatred.	2003-09-04
US	35010845	RXZKR4NWYNP7U	0308600495	387655850	The Lyric Age of Greece.	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Still useful after forty years	The \\"Lyric age\\", in this book, is the period that follows on the \\"epic age\\" - the age in which the poems of Homer and Hesiod took shape - and precedes the classical age of Herodotus, Sophocles and Plato.  (What would one call this, then?  The tragic age?  The philosophical age?).  This is a large, learned and judicious book, shedding light over a dubious period without ever underestimating the extent of the difficulties in reconstructing a historiography from sources that vary from the contentious to the downright mythological.  As one would expect from the title, the work of the early lyrical poets feature largely, but Burn makes excellent use of every kind of evidence, from legends recorded by Herodotus and Pausanias, to archaeology.  The overarching nature of this study means that there is no central outstanding issue to praise or blame, but the covering leaves throughout an impression of insight and real knowledge; and while archaeology and scholarship have moved on since 1960 (when this book was first published), this remains an excellent introduction to an important and foundational period of history.	2003-09-04
US	35010845	R2QY4BMAF5JR61	0312218869	235669253	Early Medieval Europe, 300-1000, Second Edition (History of Europe)	Books	4	63	67	N	N	Mary, Mary, quite contrary...	In writing an overall account of history such as this, what matters is the capacity for synthesis and re-interpretation, and Roger Collins certainly has both.  But he also has the faults of his virtues.  He manages to cover all important features of the enormous period under observation; he is familiar with modern scholarship; he is an excellent writer; and he is constantly questioning his material and searching for new interpretation.  On a number of issues, his views are not only interesting but revelatory; take for instance his account of the barbarity and self-serving mendacity of Charles Martel, or of the real role of Aetius in the end of the Western Empire.  However, his constant questioning of the issues can take the form of being contrary for its own sake; and some of his preconceptions are unacceptable.  In particular, he pushes the issue of Roman influence on the conquering Germanic war bands so far that, in effect, any notion of Teutonic cultural autonomy vanishes into a phantom, and we are left wondering why, if everything of importance from monarchy to law-codes had been borrowed by the Teutons from the Romans, the political structures of the Dark and Middle Ages are so different from the Roman one - not only in scale, but in kind.  This is a fine and thoughtful account of a large area of our history, but I would not take it without taking in some contrary views as a balance.	2003-09-04
US	35010845	RGP3VVD9CZPW8	1573924539	830978317	The Tales of Rabbi Nachman	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The resurrection of a great culture	What an extraordinary enterprise this is: the reconstruction, largely from oral or late sources, of the celebrated fables or parables told by a once-famous rabbinical teacher and thinker from Eastern Europe, from a culture which, though European and Jewish, is as strange to the average Westerner as any alien civilization.  These Jews believed in reincarnation; they developped complex historical schemes of interpretation; they had their own numerology and their own philosophy.  Rabbi Nachman of Bratzlav was, according to Buber, both the last and the greatest of this line of mystical philosophers.  Always a controversial figure - he suffered the violent opposition of a whole opposing Jewish party in his own shtetl, which he seems to have taken with Gandhi-like non-violence - he was above all the author of a number of complex, elaborate and, dare I say, beautiful tales expressing his own view of the nature, origin and destiny of man and God.  A later and rather different Jewish genius, the cartoonist Jack Kirby, has unhesitatingly ascribed the success of Jews in all the American arts and media to the influence of the Jewish tradition of storytelling, learned at home at one's mother's knee, and bearing fruit throughout life in a natural aptitude for putting complex ideas and views of life in narrative form.  These tales show you where he came from; they are of a complexity that bespeaks an ancient and proud narrative culture, and they are capable of bearing the most profound intellectual meaning.  As for their author, Rabbi Nachman himself, they reveal not only deep humanity and a visionary imagination, but also features very unexpected in a Chassidic Jewish teacher - a warm appreciation of human and animal beauty, and a temper to understand and forgive rather than condemn or exclude.  However, this book is to be treasured not only, perhaps not even mainly, because of its own literary and intellectual excellence, but because it is the resurrection of the last testimonyof a great European tradition, now vanished or changed out of all recognition, but fascinating and worthy of respect in its own right.	2003-09-03
US	35010845	R2PZZX3393JKCS	1890318345	203143317	Latin Letters of C.S. Lewis	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A curiosity with plenty of good features	It is a pity that more of Lewis' correspondents did not address him in Latin, for his is really delightful, and he proves certainly as able to convey his thoughts easily and eloquently in the older language as in English.  The letters of this collection really do not add up to a full book, and there is a certain amount of dead wood on both sides - but there is enough of the real Lewis in numerous comments (such as one about Ireland sectarianism for which his correspondent, Don Giovanni Calabria, felt compelled to tell him that &quot;the Holy Spirit has dictated that sentence to you!&quot;) that we would not want to be without them.  Remarkable also, and interesting, is the way in which Lewis, the holder of an Oxford triple First and one of the best-read men of his generation, addresses the only moderately well educated Father Calabria as a superior, purely because he is a priest - and not an Anglican priest either, mind you, but a Catholic.  It is symptomatic of the seriousness with which he accepted the claims, not only of his religion, but of the Church.	2003-09-03
US	35010845	R30UO33YPXKXW2	0801427800	543628200	Poet and Hero in the Persian Book of Kings (Myth and Poetics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another fine product of a great interpreatitive tradition	There is a thread that links the greatest interpreters of legend and mythology of the twentieth and early twenty-first century, running from the genius of Marcel Granet, through the solitary and towering phenomenon of Georges Dumezil, again through the great French school of Hellenic interpretation of Vernant, Detienne, Vidal-Nacquet and Nicole Loraux, and most recently to the American Gregory Nagy circle.  Olga Davidson is well rooted in the work of all these giants (except perhaps Granet) and her study of the Persian great epic makes excellent use of all their discoveries, besides showing admirable perceptivity and considerable courage.  She boldly rejects a whole tradition of historicizing accounts of Ferdawsi, rightly arguing that the account of how the poet was led to write his great epic was not a piece of history but a legendary view of the Poet as Poet.  Her interpretation of other features of this great masterpiece (among which, inevitably, towers the figure of Rustam) is equally perceptive, and nourished everywhere by a fine literary taste and sympathy.  It is to be hoped that this book becomes a landmark in its field.	2003-09-03
US	35010845	RL35V2U2HK2T1	0195003454	106860715	A Preface to Paradise Lost	Books	5	36	46	N	N	Not the last word, but much the best so far	Although a work of extraordinary brilliance and charm, this is not the critical last word on Milton.  Lewis is brilliant almost to the point of being overwhelming on everything which is story and narrative and character; his comparison of Adam with Satan, his account of the diabolical cabinet meeting in book two, his description of what eating the apple did to Adam and Eve - the father of all bright epigrammatic wastrels meeting the mother of all [evil], selfish sentimentalists - his observation on Eve's sin, which could have been written by Chesterton, all are outstanding and hit the nail on the head so hard that it rings.  And his immense learning is certainly up to the task of disentangling the intellectual background to the story - his account of the correspondence between Augustine's view of the Fall and Milton's, and his observation that both Satan and Abdiel \\"are good Aristotelians\\", show his easy, almost careless handling of vast stores of knowledge and understanding.<BR>The problem with this otherwise superlative and certainly indispensable essay is that Lewis, taken with his vision of a common \\"mere Christianity\\" embracing Protestants, Anglicans, Catholics and Orthodox, simply misses the extent and significance of Milton's sectarian and heretical opinions.  Sure, he knows that Milton was a sort of modified follower of Arius, who denied the divinity of Jesus - that is, that he stood at the outer edges of what is permissible for a Christian to believe - but he does not seem to understand that the consistently materializing imagination of Milton, that almost transforms the Trinity and the Angels into Greek Gods, was a typically Protestant and sectarian reaction against Catholic theology and especially against Thomism, with its wholly spiritual view of Angels.  Nor does he give sufficient space to the most sectarian feature of Milton's spirit, the bitterness, amounting almost to bigotry, with which he denounced opposing viewpoints; in spite of the famous passage in the AEROPAGITICUS, he is a bad friend of liberty.  Listen to the pointed observations of the historian Eric Voegelin:<BR>\\"[Milton writes in Of True Religion , 1673:]  Catholic worship cannot be tolerated  \\"without grievous and unsufferable scandal giv'n to all consciencious Beholders.\\"   And he leaves it to the civil magistrate to consider whether Catholics in England can be tolerated at all, even without public worship.   If Catholics should complain that their conscience is violated if the celebration of the mass is not permitted to them, he replies that  \\"we have not warrant to regard Conscience which is not founded on Scripture.\\" . . . . Radical scripturalism has become, in the field of social technique, the instrument through which the conscience of man can be kept within the limits of national jurisdiction. <BR>\\"Milton goes even further in his scripturalism:  he expects everybody to do his duty and to use the opportunity offered by the English Bible translation for becoming thoroughly acquainted with Scripture.  \\"Neither let the Countryman, the Tradesman, the Lawyer, the Physician, the Statesman, excuse himself by his much business from the studious reading thereof. . . .\\" <BR>Using a modern category, we might say that Milton was a totalitarian National Scripturalist. . . . \\"<BR>Lewis is possibly too much in love with Milton's masterpiece; certain it is that at the end of this marvellous little tome we may find ourselves wondering why, if Milton is really so wonderful as Lewis makes him, we feel so little need to go and revisit his work; why, indeed, we would much rather re-read Lewis' own PREFACE than Milton himself.	2003-09-03
US	35010845	R26Q8XSAR4KTGZ	069111336X	941877689	Mimesis: The Representation of Reality in Western Literature	Books	5	83	91	N	N	You simply cannot be a literary critic without reading this	To paraphrase JOhn Lennon: evereybody's talking about Marxism and Modernism, Structuralism and sociologism, this-ism and that-ism; all I am saying, is give the narrative a chance.  That is really what this greatest critic of all time - a man who is to literary criticism what Beethoven is to music, or Tocqueville to history, or Shakespeare to English poetry - ever did.  Only he armed himselv with such a broad and wide-ranging array of different interpretative approaches, that he was always able to extract more, and more diverse, meanings, from any significant passage; and that not by illegitimately stretching the content to cover areas the writer had never conceived of, but simply by bringing out what already was there.  His account of a passage in Ammianus Marcellinus, for instance, ought to be read by every historian of the late Roman Empire to understand what really was happening to that ancient civilization in the fourth century; as should his reading of a short story by Boccaccio (together, I would say, with Chesterton's magnificent essay on Chaucer) to understand the spirit that was awakening at the height of the Middle Ages.  And this book is just as broad as it is sharp; just as it manages to pierce to the very heart of a single well-chosen subject, so too it covers the most extraordinary range of subjects, from the beginning of our culture (Homer and the book of Genesis) to high modernity (Proust), from the obscure (a stunning review of a bloody sixth-century anecdote by Gregory bishop of Tours) to the famous (Shakespeare).  It is the finest book of literary criticism and history ever written, not only on account of its keen penetration and insight, but also of its enormous and wide-ranging learning, that allows the reader access to almost every century and every area of our Western heritage.	2003-09-03
US	35010845	R5G2PC982RK4N	0486414361	983418260	The Wandering Scholars of the Middle Ages	Books	5	30	30	N	N	This book will live for ever	When I bought this book, I had some misgivings, because it was dated 1927, and I am always nervous about reading old books in unfamiliar areas - there might be some important discovery that completely changes the picture, and of which they are unaware.  But I felt I needed it, because it covered a grievous gap in my own knowledge of one of my subjects - the state of culture, and its social organization, in the middle ages.  And by the time I was turning the first page, I knew I'd struck gold.  Gold?  Diamonds!  This is the sort of book that never grows old, because it is built on a most extraordinary knowledge of the relevant material - again and again, she quotes unpublished manuscripts and material in obscure German and Italian publications - joined with immense sympathy for people. a broad vision that sweeps over several centuries, an eye for the significant detail, and a delicious and humane sense of humour; it is a classic like Gibbon.  I wonder whether GK Chesterton ever read it?  He would have loved it.  It is a wonderfully insightful picture of the intellectual life of the West over seven centuries (400-1200 AD), drawn entirely from contemporary documents.  Therefore the view it presents may be modified by further discoveries, but cannot be disproved or contradicted, because it grows from the soil of real people's experience.  I can't praise it enough.	2003-09-03
US	35010845	R1JDKP3UZQ8I7N	0719546354	947032504	The Convert Cardinals: John Henry Newman and Henry Edward Manning	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Titans of the new English Catholic Church	The history of Catholicism in nineteenth-century England is not only that of the resurrection of a Church, but of an absolute explosion of spiritual and intellectual energy, running thorugh many of the greatest names of a very fertile century - the historian Lingard, the architect Pugin, the poet Gerald Manley Hopkins, the musician Elgar, running up to the towering genius of Chesterton - as though the Catholicity of England, long suppressed and denied, wished to assert itself at one go with one monumental manifestation of spiritual power.  (Not, indeed, that even the most savage penal laws had prevented English Catholicism from being fertile even in the worst days; after all, Shakespeare, Dryden and Pope were all Catholics.)  But at the centre of the whole burst of energy and briliance stood four extraordinary ecclesiastics: Nicholas Wiseman, William B. Ullathorne, and the two subjects of this book, John Henry Newman - the greatest Victorian writer after Dickens - and Henry Edward Manning.  This is a superior piece of writing on a subject of extraordinary and absorbing interest: the relationship between two of the four giant re-founders of Catholicism in England.  Indeed, it does not even restrict itself to them, since it also has plenty to say about Wiseman (to whom Newsome is perhaps more sympathetic that I would be) and Ullathorne.<BR>Newsome's book demands a certain amount of basic knowledge of his protagonists, especially of Newman, but I do not think this need put anyone off.  The book really tells its own story without need of much outside reference; its own story being the extraordinary story of these two Oxford graduates, both singled out from a very early age for certain eminence in the Anglican Church, both renouncing brilliant prospects in the Established Church for the dubious and obscure future of a convert, both supported by Wiseman and advanced against all expectations by successive Popes, both, finally - and in spite of all odds - fulfilling their blazing early promise in a completely unexpected environment.  It is well known that these two men did not get along, and posterity has been kindly to Newman - thanks not only to his literary genius but also to the comparatively liberal tinge of his ideas - and unkind to Manning, who in his lifetime had been the most beloved and respected of all English Catholic prelates, and whose funeral was attended by crowds not seen in London since the State funeral of the Duke of Wellington.  Rather like Pius XII with the ignoble Hochuth and Cornwell, Manning fell foul of a shameful hatchet job compiled by that odious little rat Lytton Strachey IN THE FULL KNOWLEDGE THAT HE WAS LYING, following, as Newsome shows, sources that were lying.  Newsome manages to restore Manning's reputation without really lowering that of Newman, and in fact delivers a beautiful and very perceptive chapter about the latter's literary and philosophical genius.  This is a very good work of history: four stars for style and approach, and an extra one for choosing a really important subject and treating it admirably.	2003-09-03
US	35010845	R3FQOECRK2TS35	0521386756	916149911	Archaeology and Language: The Puzzle of Indo-European Origins	Books	2	16	22	N	N	A failed effort, stubbornly insisted upon	When this book first appeared, in the middle of a comparatively huge media storm (nobody can criticize Professor Renfrew's mastery of media approaches), I found myself discussing it, in Oxford, with a linguist specializing in Persian and other Arya languages, and one of the world's great specialists in Indian cultures.  (My own field is early Indo-European culture.)  From all our very different perspectives, we found ourselves saying the same thing: the archaeological evidence was very interesting, but Renfrew had no understanding of comparative and historical linguistics (so said the Indianist and the historical linguist) or of comparative mythology and Dumezil (so said I).  The reviewer below, who points out the violent prejudice against migration in English archaeological theory, is perfectly right: Renfrew is indeed trying to reverse a paradigm which he finds distasteful, not for scholarly reasons, but for disguised ideological ones - a behaviour, alas, all too frequently found in the United Kingdom.  And in spite of its evident weakness, he has since insisted on buttressing his unacceptable theory of linguistic development with a string of publications.  But the really funny thing is, that a different equally speculative, and even more irrational school of archaeologists, that of Marija Gimbutas, has at the same time insisted on creating an equally mythological picture of peaceful farmers at the origins of Europe - with the Indo-Europeans, this time, as the wicked axe-welding patriarchalist bandits from the steppes putting an end to their matriarchal idyll and introducing war, unknown until then, into Europe!  Ain't life grand?	2003-09-03
US	35010845	R91WH3PXUDL1I	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	1	23	107	N	N	Disgraceful	The word \\"travesty\\" is hardly too strong for this ignoble production; and to find out that its author holds a chair in one of America's leading ancient universities is enough to make you despair.  Brutally prejudiced against orthodox Christianity, blindly insensitive to all its values, with the self-righteousness of a six-year-old crying \\"it's not fair!\\" when the other children don't want to play, and the respect for history of the lowest sort of pamphleteer, she uses the so-called gnostics (a grouping which, according to recent scholarship, does not even exist) as a stick to beat the wicked, patriarchal, anti-wimmin old Church with; misrepresenting them, in the process, monstrously.  This is history as propaganda, indeed as advertising; history for single-issue maniacs, incapable of seeing beyond their own self-built cage of prejudice.  Avoid it like the plague; and if you want to know what the Gnostics were about, go read old Ireneus of Lyons.	2003-08-13
US	35010845	RFZG6AH12NXFV	085115946X	274075942	An Introduction to English Runes	Books	4	29	32	N	N	A great introduction to a little subject	Considering the popularity of runes, the fact that this book has been in print for years, the fact that it is the second edition of a textbook that has been the standard of its subject for a quarter of a century, and finally its very high quality, I am amazed to be the first to review it.  Well, it is excellent.  R.I.Page of Cambridge is living evidence that specialization need not mean narrowness.  He is surely the most specialized of specialists, not only a runologist, but one who spent all his life specializing in English runes - and I'll have you know that there are less than one hundred known English runic inscriptions!  But Page's AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH RUNES is a golden textbook, wise, witty and far-sighted, not only an exemplary display of interdisciplinary methods, but also an education in critical thought for the student; that I do not agree with him on some points (especially on his rather negative attitude to the magical interpretation of runes) does not detract from my admiration of a great master on a small subject.	2003-08-06
US	35010845	RDBCVK6W0YEIQ	0752419447	543017777	The Decline and Fall of Roman Britain	Books	3	16	26	N	N	Useful, but almost unimaginably bigoted	Neil Faulkner's book ought to be called a meritorious enterprise, and certainly a necessary one: bringing together all areas of advanced research into the history of Roman Britain, especially archaeological, into what is in many ways an elegant and creditable synthesis.  But Faulkner murders his own work stone dead between the second and the third page, with the following extraordinary outburst:<br />\\"Many classical scholars in the past have portrayed Rome as a model to be emulated - \\"The grandeur that was Rome\\" - and have urged that it be studied for this reason.  This book offers an alternative perspective, arguing that Rome was a system of robbery with violence, that it was inherently exploitative and oppressive, and that it was crisis-prone, unstable and doomed to collapse.  I think there are lessons for the present in this.  The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse - Conquest, Slaughter, Famine and Death - stalk the modern world, dominated as it is by corporate capital and imperialist war, just as they did that of late antiquity.  In this context, continuing discussion about the past - especially about the role of violence and exploitation in human affairs - becomes part of an urgent debate about the sort of future we want to create.\\"<br />Why, after this, should anyone pay Dr.Faulkner any more attention?  This wheeling peacock display of vainglorious ignorance disguised as morality, this inability to think through elementary facts of life, and last but not least, this ridiculous teaching your grandmother to suck eggs, are bound to vitiate everything else he thinks or says.  My dear man, do you think that you are saying anything that would have surprised Gibbon or Mommsen, Carcopino or Pallottino, M.I.Finney or - \\"sí ch'io sia sesto fra cotanto senno\\" - my own self?  The point is not whether the Roman Empire was or not a system of organized exploitation; the point is what the alternative was.  The complete folly of treating Roman exploitation as an absolute evil ina context in which the alternative was barbarian exploitation - much cruder and much more wasteful - should be clear to anyone who studies, exactly, the decline and fall of the Roman Empire.  Study the internal relations of Greek states before the imposition of pax Romana; study the internal history of, say, the Kingdom of the Franks, ever after; and then tell me that the Empire was a Bad Thing.  Of course, I do not doubt that Faulkner's fanaticism, his self-imposed ignorance disguised as morality, would be up to the task of finding ways around the facts.  But to any reasonable person this is nonsense.  When I read this to a friend who is further to the left than I am, but knows history, his hair stood on end.<BR>Faulkner is a perfect example of the evil of programmed righteous indignation as a substitute for positive morality.  The modern mind, especially in Britain, has taught itself to construct righteous indignation around any target perceived as evil or in need of reform, without ever postulating a positive ground for such indignation.  It is full of things it is against with no equal list of things it is for.  Chesterton said that quite elegantly in his analysis of Ibsen in HERETICS (1905); since then, we have become even more ignorant, even more prejudiced, even more hypocritical.  And as a revolting side effect, when people brought up in the replacement of programmed righteous indignation for morality actually come close to the realities of political power - like New Labour - their empty categories crumble, leaving no buttress of positive values; and so we have displays of political immoralism to put Bismarck or Cardinal Richelieu to shame, not to mention an aimlessness and pettiness these great villains would never have imagined (would they, in contemporary circumstances, ever insist on the privatization of air traffic control and the London Underground? Of course not); no driving principle is left but a mean pseudo-realism.  Faulkner, in short, is as typical of the worst kind of mind of our day as the fellow travellers of Fascism and Communism were in the past, and the result of this sort of arrogant self-righteousness will last, alas, long after we are dead; not only in the areas where it is obvious, but also where we do not expect it.	2003-08-06
US	35010845	RUX5C4MGBLC8K	0807058017	489751212	The Gnostic Religion: The Message of the Alien God and the Beginnings of Christianity	Books	2	20	63	N	N	Disastrously narrow-minded	This is a text that, taken at face value, can destroy the understanding of the period it sets out to explore.  A caution is not enough for this book.  Its immense learning on a small range of things - useful enough for the specialist - goes with the most spectacular ignorance of the wider area, so that Gnosticism can be taken to embrace both Plotinus and Hermes Trismegistus, in fact anything that is not properly Catholic. Hans Jonas' problem is not specialization; specialization is only his excuse for what is an unconscious but almost deliberate refusal to learn certain categories, a refusal to challenge his own inadequate views on some matters, his unthinkng adhesion to a way of thinking he learned early - or rather, never learned at all, but absorbed as attitudes from the surrounding environment - and never challenged.  In particular, he assumes as obvious that heresy is inherently creative and orthodoxy inherently destructive (rather than the reverse), so that all the positive advances in religious history, from mysticism to monasticism, are to be ascribed not to the Christian Church but to his beloved Gnostic rebels.  I would guess that it is from this presumption, a fundamental and basic superstition that dominates his entire outlook, that he set out to study the ultimate in heresy, Gnosticism, in the first place.  He expected to find spiritual creativity and progress there, and he found - or rather, \\"found\\" - what he wanted.  It is not that specialization ruined him, but that the already accomplished ruin of his mind governed his choice of specialization.  That this sort of presumption in favour of heresy should go with a Bultmannite background - which logically should have no particular reason to go hunting in this particular preserve - only goes to show that sooner or later all heresies meet; if not on logically defensible grounds, at least on the common ground of the common hatred of orthodoxy.  And yet there is one last doom to which this sort of person isinevitably put: just as they think that they have taken the struggle against orthodoxy to its climax, they suddenly find themselves outdated and almost reactionary - in this case, by the rise of a new school of anti-orthodoxy associated with the name of Karen L. King, who, far from proclaiming the high merits and unique historical position of Gnosticism, proclaim that no such thing as Gnosticism ever existed - it was all a wicked intellectual construction put on their enemies by the nasty, colonialistic, male-imperialistic Catholics, which, after two millennia of obscurity, has finally been revealed by the lights of feminist, deconstructionist, non-judgemental theory!  Ain't life grand?	2003-08-06
US	35010845	R1E6DDNHI4B7A1	0060630043	344613759	The Hidden Book in the Bible	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Did King Solomon believe in	...  Richard Elliot Friedman's brilliant reconstruction of the Biblical source J into a complete independent text covering the history of the world from the Creation to the coronation of King Solomon, beginning with the words \\"On the day in which JHWH made Heaven and Earth\\", argues that the whole epic of the six days of creation is no part of J.  J therefore concentrates the whole act of creation, including man, in a single day; and it knows nothing of the opening scene of our text of Genesis, which has always made trouble for Christian theology, which showed \\"the Spirit of God brooding over the waters\\" - implying that some sort of material existence existed before Creation.    If Freedman is correct, this was not necessarily the original Jewish conception, and may even represent an intrusion from one of the surrounding polytheistic religions.  We should remember that by the time Genesis and the rest of the Pentateuch came to their current form, the Jews had been long under heavy Persian and Greek influence.  But J, according to Freedman's claim, is a text that breathes the air, if not of Solomon himself, at least of times in which he was well remembered; and it asserts creation out of nothing.  This is of great interest: it shows that the doctrine of \\"Creation out of nothing\\" - a pretty strong assertion of Divine power and the utter dependence of heaven and earth on the pure creative word of God - existed in some strands of Jewish religion to be dated, according to Freedman, as early as King Solomon.  At the very least, it certainly is several centuries earlier than Christianity; and Christianity seems otherwise to be the only religion to envisage a genuine creation, rather than a transformation from some kind of previous existence.	2003-08-06
US	35010845	RO153H9J6W560	0691037248	659550454	The Jung Cult: Origins Of A Charismatic Movement	Books	2	93	107	N	N	Well, so what?	Frankly, this was a disappointment.  I went back from it with far more sympathy for Jung - and far less for Noll - than I had believed possible; and that in spite of the fact that - after a juvenile pash for Jung more than twenty years ago - I have long since given up on psychoanalysis (and in particular on the doctrine of Archetypes) as a system of knowledge and explanation; and that I was and am not impressed with Jung's private life and his abuse of patient/doctor relationships.  The basic problem with this book is the juvenile, unmeditated, unintelligent pseudo-rationalism at its heart.  Noll is apparently under the impression that there is something called \\"the historical Christ\\" which contradicts the teachings of historical Christianity; and therefore he approves of Freud, in spite of the howlingly obvious elements of pseudo-science, self-justification and superstition, because Freud takes religion to be a disease in need of curing rather than a legitimate way to view the world.  Conversely, he opposes Jung because Jung, however distant his view from any orthodox religion, justifies religion as a state of mind.  This, of course, is the reason why Jung's success continues in spite of his more than dubious scientific standing; because, however you look at them, in terms of the most basic issues of human thought Freud is a jailer, chaining us to the lowest processes of our bodies and offering us nothing more liberating than sex, and Jung is the man who turns the key and sets us free.  I regard neither of them as in any way scientific, reliable or intellectually sound, but I also regard the influence of Jung as infinitely less pestiferous than that of Freud - and I owe this view to Noll's book, because it placed starkly in my face the sheer ugliness of the motives of those who attack Jung and defend Freud.	2003-05-20
US	35010845	R2H80YEOIY3JD	0140442839	817020183	Hesiod and Theognis (Penguin Classics): Theogony, Works and Days, and Elegies	Books	5	31	34	N	N	One of the best Classical translations I have ever read	Penguin translations often go too far in pursuit of a contemporary and popular sound, for instance in the infamous Rieu translations of Homer, with Athena &quot;dancing attendance on Odysseus like a lover&quot;; but this one is perfect, probably the best of the entire Penguin Classics collection.  The jewel in this excellent book is the translation of Hesiod's WORKS AND DAYS; a translation of exceptional quality, worthy of being mentioned in one breath with Robert Fagles and C.Day Lewis.<BR>Next to it are the wonderful, engaging introductory essays, in which Professor Wender shows the most enchanting insight into the mentality and attitude of her poets, making them live on the page for us.  It is unmistakeably the work of a specialist, yet it is pitched - successfully - at the ordinary reader.  A person who knows nothing about the Classics will leave them not only having a clear and precise idea of the characters of Hesiod and Theognis, but having learned a considerable amount about what makes good poetry.  If the translation shows the poetic gifts of a Fagles or Lewis, the introduction shows the critical eye of a truly great critic - a C.S.Lewis, a Matthew Arnold.  Do not be misled by the reviewer who says that she &quot;carps&quot; at the Theogony; he is only showing his shock at the notion that someone might have different views from his own.  Professor Wender's criticisms are justified, especially in view of her very insightful comparison of the literary quality of the THEOGONY and that of the WORKS AND DAYS.  This is the model of what a paperback translation of a classic work should be.  As for the verse, I can do no better than to quote the terrible sequence, building up to a smashing final blow, which Professor Wender herself mentions as a fine instance of the poetic excellence of the author of the WORKS AND DAYS, but which might as well feature as the type of her own fluent and beautiful poetic ear; think, as you listen, of that last white flash of deathlessbeauty, vanishing away to the land of the Gods to leave men abandoned to their fate:<BR>Zeus will destroy this race of mortal men<BR>When babies shall be born with greying hair.<BR>Father will have no common bond with son,<BR>Neither will guest with host, nor friend with friend;<BR>The brother-love of past days will be gone.<BR>Men will dishonour parents who grow old<BR>Too quickly, and will blame and criticize<BR>With cruel words.  Wretched and godless, they,<BR>Refusing to repay their bringing up,<BR>Will cheat their aged parents of their due.<BR>Men will destroy the towns of other men.<BR>The just, the good, the man who keeps his word<BR>Will be despised, but men will praise the bad<BR>And insolent.  Might will be right, and shame<BR>Will cease to be.  Men will do injury<BR>To better men by speaking crooked words<BR>And adding lying oaths; and everywhere,<BR>Harsh-voiced and sullen-faced and loving harm,<BR>Envy will walk along with wretched men.<BR>Last to Olympus from the broadpathed Earth,<BR>Hiding their loveliness in robes of white<BR>To join the gods, abandoning mankind<BR>Will go the spirits Righteousness and Shame;<BR>And only grievous troubles will be left<BR>For men, and no defence against our wrongs.	2003-05-20
US	35010845	R6M9818KELQP7	0300063229	629452583	Horace: Beyond the Public Poetry	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Penetrating	I can't believe I am the first to review this excellent book; it's been in print for a while, too.  And it is an innovative, intelligent look at one of the most important, indeed foundational poets in the canon.  In Latin, Horace is second only to his contemporary and friend Virgil; every succeeding poet has imitated him, consciously or unconsciously.  He was the most successful of all those who, in the course of several centuries, undertook to adapt Greek rhythms and poetic fashions to Latin, and therefore the most important intermediary between Greece and ourselves; and besides, hisbeauty of sound and ease of expression are unsurpassed.  Surely no poem ever had a lovelier or more unexpected close than DULCE RIDENTEM LALAGEM AMABO/ DULCE CANENTEM (\\"the sweetly smiling Lalage I'll love,/ the sweetly singing\\") or a prouder statement of the value of poetry than EXEGI MONUMENTUM AERE PERENNIUS... NON OMNIS MORIAR (\\"Longer will last the monument I built/ than bronze... Not all of me will die\\").<BR>However, Horace had been the victim of superficial and dated assessments, and was overdue for a rethinking; and Lyme delivers it excellently.  He quite rightly points out that just because a poet TELLS us that his Muse is too small and delicate a thing for war, and that the purpose of life is to enjoy the moment, we should not necessarily believe him; especially if he does so after a civil war in which his side has lost, and by the favour of the party he had opposed.  Lyme traces excellently the aspect of \\"public\\", one might say play-acting performance in Horace's work, and, as the years go by and the terrors of civil war recede, his growing confidence and his increasingly ironical and even patronizing attitude towards his patron Maecenas.  It is the young Horace, trying to escape the shadow of civil war and hatred, who tells us CARPE DIEM, QUAM MINIMUM CREDULA POSTERO (\\"Seize the moment, and have no faith in posterity\\"); it is the old Horace, a much more calm and confident man, who tells us that the greatest of kings would be nothing without poets to sing their praises, so that it is the sovereign who relies on the poet rather than the reverse. (VIXERE FORTES ANTE AGAMEMNONA/ MULTI; SED OMNES INLACRIMABILES/ URGENTUR IGNOTIQUE LONGA/ NOCTE, CARENT QUIA VATE SACRO: \\"Many were brave before Lord Agamemnon;/But for none of them is a tear shed./ A long night of unknowing drove them down,/ For God had given them no inspired singer...\\")  And on the way, Lyme sheds much light on ancient Rome and its social and political ideas.  I warmly recommend this book to anyone interested in antiquity or in a very great poet.	2003-05-20
US	35010845	R16UFG0H8HTZOD	0029050707	662441423	Origins of Modern Science 1300-1800	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Arrogant?  No way.  Challenging? Yes, and revolutionary too	A previous reviewer called the thesis of this book - that the progress of science in Western society was the main historical current from the thirteenth to the twentieth century, to the point of relegating Renaissance and Reformation to the status of side issues - \\"arrogant\\".  To the contrary, it seems to me not only justified (which has more influence on the lives of all men today, rich and poor: Martin Luther or electricity?) but a very welcome corrective to the ridiculous overvaluation of the sixteenth century and its heresies.  The largely coincidental presence of a number of outstanding painters and architects (and a few English and Spanish playwrights) have given this period a gloss that it did not deserve; for intellectual and historical significance, the thirteenth, fourteenth and nineteenth are infinitely more important.  But as for Sir Herbert Butterfield's delightful masterpiece, what one has to understand is how much it destroys, not only of much historical prejudice, but specifically of the way the history of science itself was taught.  His account, in his very first chapter, of the reaction of thirteenth- and fourteenth-century to Aristotle, of the existence of an anti-Aristotelian tradition which reached Leonardo, of the significance of the willingness to challenge an ancient authority not on the basis of another authority but of one's own observation and research - all of this is a desperately needed corrective of historiographical cliches that are still, a full half-century after Buttefield, being taught.  Likewise the very title of his second chapter, \\"the conservatism of Copernicus\\".  And I could go on.  Every chapter, almost every page, knocks down some lazy stereotype that is still today being handed down from journalist to journalist.<BR>But what is most important in this book is its central historical thesis: that science is not a \\"revolution\\" that exploded out of nowhere with Galileo (or even worse, with that desperate catch-all of ignorant scribblers, the Renaissance), but rather a tradition, you might say almost an apostolical succession, that goes back as far as the thirteenth century; that is, it is coeval with the rise of the distinctive Western (rather than Christian or Roman) civilization, with its distinctive cultural institutions - Universities and the private commercial publication of books.  Butterfield's ability to discriminate, his insight into what is genuinely scientific and what he would call \\"archaic\\", are used in the service of a historical theory that, as far as I am concerned, has not aged and is still valid.	2003-05-16
US	35010845	R221ETILQR7O45	0899790143	47043381	Gildas De Excidio Brittaniae	Books	1	9	9	N	N	aren't Penguin ashamed of themselves?	This translation was first published in 1844.  It is, as the other reviewers pointed out, incomplete, missing one of the most important pieces - the peroration to the Five Tyrants.  Gildas himself wrote in extraordinarily complicated and idiomatic (if grammatically perfect) Latin, whose understanding has greatly improved (as if you couldn't guess) in the years since 1844, and certainly needs a better translation.  And as if that wasn't enough, there are at least two more recent and perfectly functional translations, Williams (1899) and Winterbottom (1978), the earlier of which is out of copyright, perfectly available and has a commentary parts of which are still valuable.  So why did Penguin resurrect this prehistoric oddity?  They must be mad.	2003-05-16
US	35010845	RU6Q29Q323ZT9	0192862154	296344810	Defenders of the Truth: The Sociobiology Debate	Books	1	20	89	N	N	relativistic intellectual poison	James McCall's previous review shows exactly why this book is a piece of poison.  He tells us in so many words that he was sympathetic to the notion that all men are created unequal, that he opposed what he called &quot;Marxism&quot;, and that therefore he liked this book.  Pity: the fact that it caresses your most tenderly cherished prejdices is no reason to declare the intellectual soundness of anything; and one would imagine that a man with some intellectual background, as Mr.McCall claims to be, would understand that.<BR>This book is relativism pure and simple, the doctrine that one view of the world is no better than another, that there is no real right and wrong in any statement about fact - the title is ironical, since in the activity of &quot;defending truth&quot; Ulrica Segerstrale can see nothing more than a ridiculous dogmatism.  As a result, she is only interested in what the parties said to each other and how they rebutted each other's arguments; not in which of the two sides' arguments carried more or less truth.  I have not much time for Lewontin myself, but as far as I am concerned Stephen Jay Gould has shown time and time again that the pseudo-scientific arguments of Wilson and his sociobiological coterie are nothing more than nonsense driven by a lust to prove the natural inferiority of certain groups - not only morally detestable, but scientifically just plain wrong.  Well, if you don't like such arguments, if you are eager to discover &quot;scientific proof&quot; that your particular social group is naturally superior to certain defined others (and this does not apply only to racist whites: black racists of the Bernal BLACK ATHENA kind are just as keen on this sort of argument), Ulrica Segerstrale will at least flatter your preconceptions enough to make you feel that yours is a valid point of view - and not an intellectual abortion born from swollen and hypersensitive self-esteem.	2003-05-16
US	35010845	R2M44I38UP98QD	0246107154	269631191	New Apocrypha: Guide to Strange Sciences and Occult Beliefs	Books	4	5	17	N	N	charming content, questionable motives	The exposure of human gullibility and self-delusion is such easy work - demanding only some accurate research - that one wonders why more people do not undertake it.  This is, on the face of it, a peculiar project: a science-fiction writer taking time off his day job to write one long guide of the strangest kind of cultish or pseudo-scientific stuff that was wheeling around in the late sixties and early seventies (a time very sympathetic to such things).  The book is economically written, well referenced and good fun, and the author, as one would expect from a capable professional writer, is able to send up his subjects with the minimum of effort, letting them speak for themselves.  (One quotation from English bad-writing legend Barbara Cartland is particularly to be cherished.)<BR>One has to wonder about his own intellectual position, though.  We find out with dismay that he is a friend of Michael Moorcock, who is not only a prejudiced enemy of religion but the author of some of the most odiously immoralistic books ever written (take the praise of rape in GLORIANA or of mass murder in some of the ELRIC books), viciously using a practised \\"literary\\" hand to promote views that make John Norman of GOR fame sound mild.  And while there is nothing in this book of Moorcock's more extreme and ludicrous attitudes, there is a good deal to suggest that religious positions are neither taken seriously nor knowledgeably.  What he describes as the Catholic position in his otherwise well-deserved skewering of Teilhard de Chardin (and he has not even said the worst of Teilhard, who was a lifelong admirer of totalitarian dictatorships and especially of Chinese Communism) makes Catholicism sound more like a variety of Hinduism than the religion of Augustine or Aquinas, Suarez or Chesterton.  Besides, one would never understand from his writing that the Catholic Church has condemned Teilhard's writings for the heretical trash that they are (with loud approval, by the way, from one ofMoorcock's favourite targets - C.S.Lewis, who was not a Catholic).  From a different point of view, his ridiculously unsympathetic and extremely brief reference to the great philosopher Giovanbattista Vico, quoted,`alas, from Benedetto Croce, is gravely prejudicial and puts his readers - who are not likely to have read much philosophy themselves - in danger of excluding themselves from one of the most original and creative minds in many centuries, the father of half a dozen modern disciplines from anthropology to culture history.<BR>Having said all that, this book is more likely to be an influence for good than for evil.  If the author has any negative view about religion as such, he keeps them to himself; there is no implication anywhere that the religious person as such is an idiot (such as one finds scattered all over Moorcock).  Sladek has only attacked what is more than deserving of attack, and the dose of scepticism he delivers in this book is healthy for any intellectual constitution.	2003-05-16
US	35010845	RLHGSDZVPGVJV	0815412622	836236870	The Nuremberg Trials	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A vigorous, documented presentation of justice	Distinguished British journalist John Tusa is of Czech descent and a child refugee from Nazism.  While this accounts for the passion that is evident in every line of this vast book, it does not distort this excellent and beautifully written account of the greatest trial in history: only motivate the authors enough to produce not only an impressively well researched, but also a remarkably well written history that is a pleasure to read.  Professional historians may find unprofessional the occasional outburst at some more than usually egregious piece of self-righteousness by this or that defendant; for instance, Neurath's claim that as Hitler and Himmler tended to have their crime planning conferences late at night, he could not be expected to attend them - he was a sound sleeper.  The Tusas insert an editorial comment about sleeping the sleep of the righteous while your troops despoil and murder; which a professional historian would not have.  But then, the subject matter calls for indignation.  The heart of this story is the reaction of twenty human beings, some of quite high talents, to the work of systematic and committed evil; and as the Tusas show, only one of them - the least guilty, Fritzsche - ever actually showed that he understood the reality of what they were doing.  Even those of the others who did denounce Hitler from the dock - Speer and Schirach - only blamed him for what he had done to Germany; and the apparent repentance of one of the biggest of them, Hans Frank, could never, in most observers' eyes, be separated from maudlin self-pity.<BR>This book has a few flaws.  Typical of the journalist's trade, which is to familiarize him or herself with enough of the evidence to write credibly about any subject, it shows excellent research on the Trial itself - the Tusas have read all the transcripts and interviewed large numbers of witnesses - but far less about the background of Nazism.  As a result, it quotes as Gospel the testimony of Gisevius, who was wrong about at least two facts on which he is quoted uncritically: the Nazis did not in fact burn the Reichstag (and therefore his detailed ascription of the fire to Goering was sheer fantasy) and Rommel, who died as a Resistance martyr, was certainly not \\"a typical Party general\\".  Also, the Tusas are excellent on the British, American and German side, but seem to have made no effort to document themselves on the French and Russian, and as a result tend to downplay some of the Allies' contribution.  It took Dan Van Der Vat's critical biography of Speer to point out that the negative assessment of Speer's lawyer, made by one of the British judges and uncritically repeated by the Tusas, is in fact the result of different expectations of what a lawyer's role should be, and that Speer's lawyer was actually good enough to keep his client's neck out of the noose - where, almost everyone agrees, it belonged.<BR>Taking all this into consideration, this is still an excellent, well researched and beautifully written work, taking the time to describe almost all aspects of a monumental and historic trial.  I recommend it almost unreservedly to anyone who wishes to familiarize him or herself with a particularly odious period of history.	2003-05-11
US	35010845	R1A64645A57R8B	0851157335	204260668	Saint Patrick, AD 493-1993	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Full of useful stuff, but opinionated	This book suffers from three major problems, two of which depend directly on the author's basic personality and approach, and one on a rather incomprehensible decision to accept someone else's clearly flawed conclusions.  The latter is Dumville's unfortunate acceptance of James Carney's late dating (493) for Patrick's death, which in turn depends on a mistaken view of the value as evidence of Irish monastic records.  The other two major flaws are the bitty presentation of the evidence, with no attempt to present anything like an overall view; and the excessive concentration on the transmission of texts.  Always and everywhere, Dumville speaks as though the first WRITTEN appearance of any item represents its origin; an idea that two minutes' thought ought to disprove.  And his assumption that the first scholarly problem is to shed light on the origin and history of individual documents means that he never even tries to develop a clear vision of historical developments.  To the best of my knowledge, Dumville has never written a book; all books published under his byline are collections of articles, and this, in spite of being conceived and designed from the beginning as a unit, is no exception.  The result is that it is hugely difficult to find out what Dumville thinks of any one major problem - except the one on which he is thoroughly, unmistakably wrong, namely the date.<BR>Worst of all is his relentlessly negative and destructive attitude.  He finds it more important to shed negative light, disproving others' views.  While this is understandable in view of the apparently irresistible appeal of the period he studies - the Insular dark ages - to cranks of every kind, it is in my view an unconstructive attitude.  Nevertheless, this book is full of useful items and observations; indeed, Dumville seems to have gone out of his way to incorporate even items he regards as valueless and remote.  It can be used with profit even by people who are very far intellectually fromits pessimistic, if learned, author.	2003-05-11
US	35010845	R1KL30HSRKOQA8	0297176013	607920318	The Age of Arthur: A History of the British Isles, 350-650	Books	2	24	35	N	N	handle with extreme care	The trouble with writers who can write good English is that they can present bad arguments attractively.  Let's face it: John Morris was a crank, a very learned, impressive crank, but a crank.  My copy of his work is dotted with pencil notes that question his sanity; and while that was the immediate, unmediated response to the impact of a first reading, a subsequent and more placid view does not really mitigate the effect of some of his enormities.<BR>His worst feature was a complete inability to tell the difference between legend and historical fact - understandable, perhaps, in a novice, but incomprehensible in a man who had spent all his life in scholarship.  It is typical of his methods (to dignify them by that name) that he should take seriously the Kentish legend of Hengist and Horsa (as related by Nennius), in spite not only of its obviously legendary features but of the fact that it plainly contradicts everything that our best properly historical source, Gildas, has to tell about the first Saxon war.  Gildas tells us that the war was a blitzkrieg caused by the sudden fury of starved barbarians; the legend makes it a long-prepared plan.  Gildas tells us that it reached as far as the West Country; the legend restricts it to Kent.  Gildas tells us that it was bloody but swift; the legend makes it last ten years.  How does Morris get over these hurdles?  Why, by a simple and airy remark: \\"accounts of the war north of the Thames have not survived\\".  He should have said not only north of the Thames but west of the Medway; but let that pass, since at any rate it shows the level of his critical intellect.  This sort of thing is highly damaging, not only because it legitimated the destructive scepticism of the currently prevalent Cambridge school of David Dumville and his followers, but because it has a lethal fascination for the unprepared reader, impressed (as some of the earlier reviews show) by the show of learning, and by the cohesive picture offered.  The learning is not fake (although on a few occasions, especially when dealing with Rigothamus and Brittany, Morris leaves the impression of having invented sources, or at least read them very \\"creatively\\"); but learning is not enough, and a poorly grounded overall picture is worse than none at all.  I have written myself about this period of British history, and am continuously surprised at Morris' blindness to obvious fact when inconvenient for his theories.<BR>This book escapes getting only one star for two reasons: first, its genuinely excellent prose style; and second, that in the middle of the scholarly ordure there are a good few diamonds.  From time to time, Morris comes up with genuinely brilliant ideas and insights (such as his argument for the existence of an individual insular idea of Empire, or his defence of the currently unpopular early dating of St.Patrick).  But these are too widely scattered among a fluent tide of nonsense to be a reason to recommend the book.  Though addressed to lay readers, this book is dangerous for them; it should be restricted to those who, having as much learning as Morris himself, are able to judge and condemn his arguments.	2003-05-02
US	35010845	R3PLBK2ASBG38W	0745612261	919309649	The Conquest of Mexico: The Incorporation of Indian Societies into the Western World, 16Th-18th Centuries.	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An outstanding rethinking of the meaning of conquest	Really outstanding books of history almost inevitably have certain basic common features; in particular, long and patient work on immense amount of often obscure original sources.  Therefore favourable reviews often tend to have similar features, in particular praise for the author's immense, or at least uncommon, learning and labour.  I dare say that, from the reader's point of view, negative reviews may be more fun, since a book can be bad in infinite ways but good in only one of a few.  In this case, I will have to be boring: since this outstanding revisitation of colonial Mexican history is impressively learned, with a strong grasp of basic sources across at least three centuries (and if you think that's easy, just try it); insightful, leaving a clear impression of native spirituality and world-view and of its difference with the Christian and European world of the invaders; and novel.  That is the main point.  Gruzinski comes to his material with a question nobody before him had asked: how did the natives, heirs of a complex if barbarous civilization and of a very large variety of cultures, react to the presence among them of what was at first, and for considerable time, an alien culture with largely different assumptions and a wholly different world-view?  He traces the interaction of Spanish Catholicism and political power with the various local cultures (never failing to make clear that Mexico was not a single culture, but an empire dominating or overshadowing a large number of different tribes) across three centuries, showing that as late as the eighteenth centuries there were broad unassimilated areas - which however tended to fade - and suggesting a subterranean continuity, bubbling up in the unsettled world of pulquerias and colonial slums, between the failures of assimilation in colonial times and the strong anti-clerical currents of post-independence Mexico, which are still a factor in the country today.<br />Gruzinski's writing is straightforward though not very plain - big words are not avoided and some sentences may take time for the ordinary reader to grasp.  But he avoids the bane of the French intellectual - airy generalizations and general pretentiousness: he always has his eye to the object, and is most often accurate, fair, and careful.  Some of his views may, I suppose, be challenged: for instance, he treats the enormously widespread problem of alcoholism in the seventeenth century as a by-product of failed assimilation, yet Bernal Diaz del Castillo (one of Cortez's own soldiers, who wrote a memoir at the end of his life) tells us that massive and vicious drunkenness, including details too revolting to mention here, was a feature of pre-Conquest society as he encountered it.  Gruzinski, being a pioneer, may have got some things wrong, as pioneers do.  But he has given us a completely new and very valuable way to look at an old issue, and done so in a very well-organized, capable and professional way.not very plain - big words are not avoided and some sentences may take time for the ordinary reader to grasp.  But he avoids the bane of the French intellectual - airy generalizations and general pretentiousness: he always has his eye to the object, and is most often accurate, fair, and careful.  Some of his views may, I suppose, be challenged: for instance, he treats the enormously widespread problem of alcoholism in the seventeenth century as a by-product of failed assimilation, yet Bernal Diaz del Castillo (one of Cortez's own soldiers, who wrote a memoir at the end of his life) tells us that massive and vicious drunkenness, including details too revolting to mention here, was a feature of pre-Conquest society as he encountered it.  Gruzinski, being a pioneer, may have got some things wrong, as pioneers do.  But he has given us a completely new and very valuable way to look at an old issue, and done so in a very well-organized, capable and professional way.	2003-05-02
US	35010845	R1LYUKEXGYETO1	0684836254	502176195	Joseph McCarthy: Reexamining the Life and Legacy of America's Most Hated Senator	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A wise and mature assessment of a self-destructive man	This kind of book shows that the American right has intellectually come of age. Written with discrimination and insight, massively researched, fair to its opponents yet devastating about the means by which Joseph McCarthy was first demonized and then destroyed by deliberate misrepresentation - the man who did the actual destruction, Walsh, is shown to have manipulated his audience with the shrewd hypocrisy of a consummate performer - yet it does not try to make a hero out of its protagonist, showing pretty clearly that he had been promoted way above his ability and was self-destructively in love with the bottle. He was not, either, the champion of the anti-Communist cause he promoted himself as: before he ever appeared in Washington, the frightful level of Soviet infiltration in Washington - which had reached, before 1944, right up to the office of the Vice-President - had been exposed and largely neutralized by such men as Hoover and the young Richard Nixon. Neither was a pleasant creature, true; but they were, at the time, effective enough in stopping a genuine danger. McCarthy had his information at second hand and used it in an imprecise and publicity-seeking manner that recoiled on him.<BR>On the other hand, he is shown to have been a pleasant man in many ways, loved by his friends, colour-blind at a time when that was not a normal feature in American politics, and sympathetic to the working class from which he himself had sprung. Early in his career he was a strong, personable local judge; that was the level of his ability, and, had he stuck to that post instead of getting consumed with ambition into making a bid for Washington notoriety, he would perhaps be remembered with mild affection instead of the largely undeserved hatred that clings to his name as a result of a deliberate smear campaign which his clumsy populism drew on himself.	2003-04-29
US	35010845	RU2P1HR72F0C9	0374525587	166022891	The Feminization of American Culture	Books	5	27	32	N	N	masterly	One can only imagine the work that has gone into this staggering piece of intellectual history - whose axis is the unforeseeable and fateful rise of the female public in American intellectual life, and contemporaneously the collapse of the old, muscular style of Protestant religiosity and intellect - from the kind and number of sources the author uses.  She has apparently trawled through reams and piles of obscure newspapers and magazines, familiarized herself with writing most of us would be glad to avoid, learned to distinguish the various strands of an intellectual and publishing life which is, to modern America, as alien as imperial China or early Sumer.  The result is tremendous: not only a resurrection of a past age that does it honour and justice (if anything, one seems to perceive, in this female scholar, a certain sympathy - even nostalgia - for the utra-male, activist, iron-faced world of the old Puritan thinkers, post-Jonathan Edwards and his likes), but a flood of light on the origins of our (not exclusively American) world and society.  This simply cannot be praised too much; future historians will not be able to prescind from it.	2003-04-29
US	35010845	RAV7IRE6WAKVX	1859842534	214357238	A Plague on Your Houses: How New York Was Burned Down and National Public Health Crumbled (Haymarket)	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Wallace, or bravery	The significant feature of this magnificent book - the last shape taken by an ongoing series of studies into the results of neo-liberal public policy by Roderick and Deborah Wallace - is that the authors know what they are talking about. Their expertise in statistical studies, developped in a completely different field of study (zoology) is such that, when they first by chance found themselves reading the so-called statistical arguments for expenditure cuts in fire prevention and other services, they KNEW - not as bleeding-heart liberals, but as professional statisticians - that what they were reading was incompetent, pseudoscientific, ideologically motivated nonsense. Since then they have waged, in a string of devastating publications, a truly heroic struggle against the powers of prejudice, governmental meanness and big business-motivated press disinformation.  If the the poor stupid general public that reads the newspapers and elects the politicians were ever allowed to know about the Wallaces and their battle for the truth, they would have long since been recognized as among the greatest names alive.  Think about it: why did they take it upon themselves to fight this fight?  Not, by any means, to advance their career: their career was in another field, and might even have been endangered by their taking controversial stances on public matters.  Not for self-interest; and not for a thirst for fame - for they carried on for decades in spite of being completely ignored by the major media.  They acted only out of pure civic passion and a sense of right and wrong. Therefore, known or unknown, the Wallaces are genuine living heroes, and their names deserves to ring as nobly as that of old Sir William of that ilk, who also fought for the downtrodden and ignored when there was nobody else to fight for them.	2003-03-29
US	35010845	RYNGOJAYI2LA8	0520208811	763116809	Fiction as History: Nero to Julian	Books	4	6	16	N	N	Superb conclusions - and an author terrified of his results	This magnificent essay on fiction writing in the middle and late Empire really deserves five stars, except for the intellectual cowardice that makes G.W.Bowersock leave the obvious results of his research unsaid.  And yet the book is packed full of thought, its tiny dimension - barely 150 thinly-printed pages - being entirely misleading in terms of its immense learning and insight.  Bowersock examines the rise of an entirely new kind of fiction - self-consciously fictive prose, from the great Hellenistic novels to the sarcastic dialogues of Lucian - in the middle Roman Empire, beginning with the fragmentary SATYRICON of Petronius Arbiter.  (One blatant omission is Seneca's PUMPKINIFICATION OF CLAUDIUS, strangely out of keeping with the author's vast frame of reference; yet some of the conclusions that could be drawn from this unchivalrous piece of speaking ill of the dead would fit very well with Bowersock's own views.)  Moving back and forth across three centuries, with swift yet elegant dashes to huge areas beyond (e.g. a brief but fascinating excursus about Lessing's attitude to Philoktetes), Bowersock builds a brilliant argument that all this prose fiction was closely influenced, possibly even roused by, the New Testament and succeeding Christian writing.  His analysis of the terrible &quot;cannibalism&quot; passage in the SATYRICON is especially illuminating, and proves, in my view, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that the notion of transubstantiation and the eating of the Body of Christ in bread was already known, in exactly the historical terms of the Church, in 64AD.  Bowersock, in effect, reverses one of the commonplaces of modern NT criticism: where the modern NT critic sees the Hellenistic Roman prose writing as affecting the rising Christian religion, Bowesock shows that it was itself affected by it - in some cases, pretty blatantly, so that one wonders how NT exegetes could possibly miss the fact that the authors of this or that romance were imitating rather than being imitated.<BR>This being such a fine piece of work, why do I only award it four stars instead of five?  Because Bowersock is plainly terrified of his own results.  He does not want to say out loud that a generation that lived in the reign of Nero (i.e. within living memory of Christ) had a clear understanding of Transubstantiation; he does not want to say out loud that, far from being obscure and unknown, Christianity was a major cultural leaven from a very early period; above all, he would sew his own lips shut rather than admit that every piece of his excellent analysis goes to reinforce the notion of a historical Jesus within the terms and parameters of the Gospels.  Professor Bowersock is - unfortunately for him - a widely respected figure in the academic establishment.  He certainly would lose caste among his scholarly colleagues if he were more explicit about what he has to say; however, he must at least be complimented on having done nothing to disguise or conceal, as more than one other academic has done, the tendency of his results.	2003-03-04
US	35010845	R19N29KDL7AXEJ	0192891324	620296643	Romantics, Rebels and Reactionaries: English Literature and Its Background, 1760-1830 (Opus)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	One of the greatest living historians in any field	Marilyn Butler is at least as great a literary historian as Ann Douglas, and that means as great as it gets.  This book is... well, I do not say an object lesson in writing history, for it is inimitable.  Dr.Butler's mind is vast: she can be just and sympathetic both to the stern Toryism of Jane Austen and to the extreme progressivism of Blake or Godwin.  Her eye for the peculiarities of a period - even a period that lasted, perhaps, only a few months - is flawless.  Her learning is enormous, yet worn lightly; like her Oxford predecessor C.S.Lewis, she can be said to have &quot;read everything, and understood what [she] read&quot;.  And because her knowledge is so broad, embracing political and social history on both Britain and the continent, she is able to indulge in the wholesale slaughter of sacred cows without being in the least affected, self-indulgent, or attention-seeking.  It is simply her sacrifice to the truth.  Dr.Butler on the real intellectual origins and significance of Wordsworth, for instance, is a marvellous liberation from generations of nonsense; as soon as one reads her analysis of his derivation from a specific and identifiable strand of eighteenth-century writing, one becomes conscious that this is the truth.  And her style is worthy of her content: plain, profound, readable, with not one sentence in the whole book that does not advance the argument or shed further light.  Dr.Butler is an Oxford Don, and this is the Oxford manner at its best - clear, unpretentious, comprehensive.  This is a fabulously good book, that takes its place alongside Lewis' OXFORD HISTORY OF SIXTEENTH-CENTURY LITERATURE, Auerbach's MIMESIS, Ann Douglas' TERRIBLE HONESTY and THE FEMINIZATION OF AMERICAN CULTURE as one of the finest pieces of literary history I have ever read.	2003-02-20
US	35010845	R2RDIMTFSRTJAF	0899790194	864326776	History of the Britons	Books	1	29	33	N	N	cheap, disgraceful, and a terrible wasted opportunity	When J.Giles translated a number of ancient British and English historical texts in 1844, he was, I suppose, breaking new ground - although not so new as might be thought, since many of his texts were widely and long since known.  But that any publisher should see fit to reprint his dated and by now thoroughly inadequate translation, is hard to believe; and that it should be the mighty Penguin, the largest British publisher of classic texts in paperback, is beyond condemnation.  It is not as though newer translations were not available.  These texts are absolutely fundamental to the understanding of the history of Britain, and to place this in the hands of the ordinary paperback reader, with Penguin's supposed authority behind it, in place of a new version with the insights of 160 years of scholarship behind it, is to do them a grave disservice.  I really cannot understand why Penguin has been struck with such a sudden fit of cheapskatehood; or should we think of offloading any shares we have in the company?	2003-02-08
US	35010845	R259M7OBTURNS8	0801854814	675833086	Archaic Roman Religion, Volume 2	Books	5	15	17	N	N	An invitation to discovery	...  The beauty of the style, the fascinating glimpses of worlds beyond - the Vedic, Teutonic, Celtic and other data deployed casually and yet much to the point, the intellectual penetration and the ability to see common threads in different things and differences in similar things - riveted my interest for ever on the history of culture.<br />It is true that the English version does the style of the original no favours - one must remember that the anthropologist Levy-Strauss, a man well able to judge, compared Dumezil's style to that of Voltaire: probably the highest compliment a French writer can pay to another.  However, the whole is still eminently readable.<br />It demands, however, a certain kind of reader: one who does not mind being challenged, who does not mind being introduced to unknown and obscure facts, who has no need to be cradled in his or her own convinctions, and who does not mind a certain kind of pugnacity.  For there is no doubt that Dumezil, this courtly old French gentleman with exquisite olde-worlde manners, who charmed almost everyone who came into contact with him - including myself - was a fighter.  His presence in the academic world was a solitary and battling one; he once wrote to me that he utterly refused to become a \\"chef d'ecole\\" and form his own academic party (this is perhaps the reason why latter-day Dumezilians are numerically rather scarce and academically not too impressive).  Certainly the bites he takes out of scholars with opposing views are merciless; but one has to say that he always fought fair and face to face, that he rarely attacked anyone who had not attacked him first (comparative Indo-European studies are still today a rather contentious field) and that he never would have considered sinking to the level of the famous historian who once organized a congress \\"about\\" Dumezil's own work, or rather against it, without so much as letting Dumezil or any of his friends know about it.  Now that is indeed base.<br />Be thatas it may, this book is a classic that will last as long as the work of Mommsen, or Tocqueville, or Gibbon.  As an introduction to archaic Roman religion, as a systematic textbook, it may perhaps disappoint, since it neither covers all the main points systematically nor leaves out matters that interest the author but that are not, of themselves, equally important.  But as an inspiration to further research, as an introduction to the idea that history is not a collection of data but an intellectual adventure, as an intellectual adventure in itself, it is magnificent.  Twenty years after reading it for the first time, I went back to it, having, in the meantime, read, written and published myself about archaic Roman religion; and, guess what?  Not only was the book as fresh as new, but I immediately found a whole series of new ideas and areas to develop, waiting for me to be ready to recognize them.	2002-11-29
