US	35109488	R31LMMZ5OBSAL5	0380718758	120549291	Snow White, Blood Red	Books	1	13	28	N	N	Very Disappointing	I adore anything that even comes close to being a retelling of one of my beloved fairytales.  Silly, sentimental...I don't care I just love fairytales.  I eagerly picked this book up at the library for a little light reading between exams and papers.  Boy, was I disappointed! I felt horrid reading this stuff.  I just could not finish it.  I'm sorry, but I do not find it entertaining in the least to read about adults lusting after children...a theme found in several of the stories.  Sleeping with the mother while attempting to seduce the young daughter.  Feeling up a child who is clinging to you because she is afraid of the woods.  Raping children!!!! This book makes me sad. I only gave it one star because I had to.	2005-10-03
US	35109488	R2F86UVOTXPOPX	0451212886	709279130	Moonlight and Mischief (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Amusing Regency, Though Hardly Perfect	Mariah is an exceedingly pretty girl with a pleasant personality and a substantial dowry...very substantial. But, after several seasons, she is still unmarried due to the fact that her family has gained its fortune from trade.  <br /> <br />One night at his club, Mariah's brother witnesses an earl lose a large fortune at the gaming tables and later approaches the lord and hints as to the size of his sister's dowry. The earl finds the pup amusing and invites him to a houseparty, thinking the fellow might be good for a few laughs. The earl promptly forgets the invitation...and is surprised when the whole family lands on his doorstep. <br /> <br />Mariah is mortified. Her family has practically crashed the earl's houseparty and, to make matters worse, Mariah's mama is throwing Mariah at the earl's head every other second. The rest of the time, dear mama is hinting as to the vastness of their wealth. All Mariah wants to do is leave as soon as may be...until she has an encounter with the earl by moonlight... <br /> <br />Overall, I found it to be an amusing and refreshing regency. There were a couple of parts that I felt dragged a bit near the end, but the chemistry was so nice between the hero and the heroine I was able to overlook that and still finish the book with a satisfied feeling. Four stars.	2004-12-24
US	35109488	R1HKPE4JQNRB2N	0451210050	455316000	Saving Lord Verwood (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Is is Possible to Reform a Rogue?	Penelope Talcott is determined to marry her country curate, Cyril. Penelope's aunt is determined to help Penelope make a splash in Brighton society while her uncle hopes she will make a good match and save them all from their life of genteel poverty on the fringes of good society. <br />Unfortunately, all Penelope manages to do is supply the gossips with a fresh morsel when she accidently saves the life of the scandalous rogue, Lord Verwood. The favor almost costs Pen her life later on, but she is saved by none other than Lord Verwood... and the cost is Penelope's good name and reputation.<br />Fine! Maybe now her aunt and uncle will let her marry Cyril, or so she thinks until the oh so proper Cyril bows himself none too gracefully out of the picture. Now, Pen has three choices: continue on as an unwanted poor relation in her uncle's home, go to live with her friend Catherine's family, or marry Lord Verwood...which is totally out of the question. At least it was until Verwood gave Pen a kiss to make one's hair stand on end. Hmmm...perhaps marriage is the best solution.<br />Verwood and Pen marry, but there's trouble in paradise right from the start. Someone wants Verwood dead, possibly Penelope too, and Verwood won't explain to Pen what is going on. How can she stay with a rogue who is keeping everything a secret from her? How can she leave the rascal who has captured her heart? <br />The romance is very sweet and a little spicy. I loved Verwood...I have a thing for misunderstood rogues with hearts of gold. There's danger, mystery, romance, did I mention romance? It was different, but I like it.	2004-06-14
US	35109488	RKAZORDT1N1H3	045121014X	953544680	Deceiving Miss Dearborn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Headline: Proper Spinster Falls for Naked Man In Barn.	Annabelle Dearborn was just trying to keep her family afloat. She had loyal servants and a sheltered Mama who all depended on her. The last thing she needed was to find a nameless, injured  stranger with no memory NAKED in her barn...because of course her soft heart demanded that she nurse, feed, and DRESS him, even though they had little to spare.<br />Mr. Wakefield (as he calls himself because he woke in a field), finds himself enchanted by the beautiful Annabelle who bravely cares for all in her charge. Annabelle is just as taken with the kind Wakefield who is the only person she can really talk to about all of her hopes and fears. Their fast friendship is quickly leading to love, but can Annabelle really trust the charming stranger? What if he regains his memory and remembers that he has a wife somewhere? And how can Wakefield give his heart when he has no idea who he is or if he has anything to offer a lady? And there is the question as to why Wakefield was stripped and badly beaten. Could someone want him...dead?	2004-06-14
US	35109488	R1IZE0ZQFX1S54	0821777033	830894146	A Rogue's Revenge (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I thought it was fun...	The plot is simple. Lord Gaventry has come to Bath to find, woo, perhaps ruin, and definately break the heart of the authoress who based her novel, A Rogue's Tale, on his life...the main character is Lord Daventry, for goodness' sake, and the book reads like his diary. Unfortunately, the book has made him look like a misunderstood, tragic, ROMANTIC, hero and women are throwing themselves at him right and left. Gaventry enjoyed his privacy and his bachelorhood, thank you, and he would have his revenge on the woman who dared to pry into his personal affairs.<BR>Aurelia Kittling was going to feel a Rogue's Revenge. <br />Sarah Kittling is having a severe attack of conscience. How did she have the nerve to base her novel so obviously on the exploits of a real man? And the sequel, A Rogue's Revenge, is due out soon. If Lord Gaventry should ever learn her identity, there would be the devil to pay, she was sure. And her explanation that she desperately needed money to keep herself, her two sisters, and her cousin, housed and fed would hardly placate a wicked rogue like Gaventry. Luckily, her publisher had sworn to keep her identity a secret... and she had given him her sister's name besides.<br />When Gaventry and Sarah meet, sparks fly. But Gaventry seems to prefer Sarah's sister, Aurelia. Sarah soon realizes that Gaventry is out for revenge. How dare he trifle with her sister's affections. Perhaps Sarah could serve up some revege of her own...<br />Okay, this book was unrealistic, really, but it was fun and it sizzled. I loved the dialogue between Sarah and Gaventry. I would recommend this book to anyone who liked Courting Trouble by Nonnie St. George. They are both unique, spirited romps through Regency England.	2004-06-14
US	35109488	REZC4Q5A24JUM	082177591X	548536256	Courting Trouble (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Unrealistic? Yes. Loads of Fun? Absolutely!	Arabella and Diana Swann are the daughters of a wealthy merchant... very wealthy. Wealthy enough to snare them just about any title they could want. But Arabella doesn't give a fig about titles, she just wants someone who can love her for herself and not her hefty dowry. When her father practically shoves Duke St. Fell, a fortune-hunting rogue, into Arabella's lap, she is furious. All she wants is the freedom to choose her own husband...and she'll do it, no matter what her father says. The only problem is, even though Arabella has found a romantic war hero who is a published poet and is willing to marry her dowry or no, aka her ideal, all she can think about is the infuriating, deceitful rake, St. Fell. <br />I found this book to be laugh out loud funny. The dialogue is witty and sarcastic... a nice change from some of the dull as dishwater romances I've had the misfortune to read. I loved the tipsy maiden aunt, the foul mouthed Duchess, the crying Baron, the sexy hero, the father who carries a big stick, and the heroine who is not afraid to say what she means... no matter how shocking. Also, Diana and her earl, who appeared so painfully shy and backwards in company, slipping off to have make out sessions...LOL.<br />What can I say, this is a slightly naughty Regency that is not afraid to laugh at itself or its genre. Regency fans that are able to understand some of the double meanings and inside jokes about the Regency period and romance novels in general will find the book to be a delicious treat.<br />You'll love or hate it... just like sugared almonds and apricot nougets...read it and you'll know what I mean.	2004-06-04
US	35109488	R2H93AG555MAVD	0451210123	34712745	The Spinster and the Wastrel (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Love AND Money	Annette, the daughter of the late vicar, is alone in the world except for the widowed pig farmer's wife who is her companion and dearest friend. Annette's one joy in life is helping others. She actively involves herself with assisting every charity case in the community...which often leads her to the local Baron's door. He is the only one with money to spare for those in need and it IS his responsibility to care for his tenants and those in the village...and Annette is not afraid to tell him so! The Baron is a terrible pinch-a-penny and about the grumpiest person you could ever meet, but he holds a grudging respect for Annette...or so she assumes when the elderly man dies and leaves her everything that is not entailed...a fortune!<br />Sir Gerard is seriously displeased. His uncle never gave him a penny in his lifetime, forcing Gerard to live by his wits and his gambling skills alone. In fact, Gerard was counting on his inheritance to pay off some pressing gambling debts. But now his uncle has left all the money to a plain country spinster. Gerard only has the estate, which he very well may lose if he doesn't get some cold hard cash...and fast!<br />And so he finds himself at the mercy of Annette. He bullies her, begs her, reasons with her, begs again, sweet talks her, befriends her, and even proposes marriage, but Annette is determined to keep the money and spend it helping others. She will not hand it over to some handsome Londoner who will only gamble it away...even if she has fallen head over heels in love with...that wastrel! But when Gerard appears to have fallen for her, and not the money, will Annette be able to trust him? Will Annette and Gerard choose love, money, or both? Read and find out!	2004-01-28
US	35109488	RG20EWZFWHYX5	0451210409	50407963	A Perfect Scoundrel (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	No Romeo For This Juliet....But Alex Definately Works!	Alex Has A Few Secrets:<br />Alex simply will not pretend to be his identical twin brother for a week so that Anthony can avoid a houseparty at their grandfather's estate, get a break from the matchmaking mamas, and attend a boxing match in the country. HE WILL NOT! Well, then Alex's army buddy shows up badly beaten and needing a place to hide from a wicked card sharp. And Alex's grandfather's estate in the country IS the perfect place to hide. Blast! Looks like he's doing it. So, all Alex has to do is impersonate his brother, conceal a man, fend off a very determined mama, and lie to everyone at a houseparty...it's going to be a very long week.<br />Juliet Has a Few Secrets of Her Own:<br />Juliet, Alex and Anthony's oldest and dearest friend, happens to be the only person who can tell the twins apart...and of course she's at the houseparty. So Alex must let Juliet in on his secrets...which brings the childhood pals considerably closer since Juliet is the only person Alex can be himself around...the only person he's not lying to. But, as their friendship deepens into something warmer and far more intimate, it's not Alex's secrets, but Juliet's that threaten their future together...<br />My Opinion:<BR>I really liked this book. It was refreshing and sweet. I loved the characters and the backstory of Juliet's origins was very moving. This book reminded me why I am a regency romance fan!!!!	2004-01-28
US	35109488	R3QTTEENY8VLOD	0590331361	310958430	Elizabeth (Sunfire Book, #3)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the Better Sunfire Books	Upon the death of their father, Elizabeth and her younger brother and sister go to live with their aunt and uncle in a small town that neighbors Salem, Massachusetts...during the time of the Salem Witch Trials. Elizabeth's uncle turns out to be extremely strict...especially on Elizabeth's brother, and after a childish indiscretion, her uncle actually sends her brother off to be an indentured servant...in Salem. Between Elizabeth's fear for her brother, all the hard work, trying to fit in in a new town, and her confusing feelings for a young farmer, Elizabeth's life has become more complicated than she ever dreamed possible. But it's about to get more complicated. Elizabeth, on one of her long walks, happens to meet Nell, a young woman who has recently come from Barbados to live with her grandmother, and Johnny, a young man Elizabeth suspects of being the highwayman that has recently terrorized the village. Elizabeth unexpectedly finds a place to belong and true friendship with these social outcasts and begins to secretly meet with them. But then Nell is accused of witchcraft. Elizabeth knows that the charge is not true, but by speaking up, she will reveal her own deceit and perhaps implicate herself as well. And if all that were not enough, Elizabeth fears that she has fallen in love...with the highwayman!	2003-10-24
US	35109488	RIBQT3C35FO9E	0821767976	747910706	Once Upon A Waltz (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good...If This Is What You Are Looking For	Let me tell you about this book. It contains three fairy tales that are set in regency England. They are silly romantic fluff and exactly what I enjoy passing a lazy afternoon with. A lot of people didn't like this book simply because they were looking for a regency romance and this, besides it setting, is not really. Fantasy lovers and fairy tales fantatics, of which I am proudly one, will be far more likely to love this book. Check out Once Upon a Time and Once Upon A Kiss by these same three authors also...those two are slightly better.	2003-09-21
US	35109488	RIQWSGF1DEKA1	0821762109	15789394	Once Upon A Kiss	Books	5	3	4	N	N	My Opinion...	I liked it!!! And you might too if you just give it a chance. It's not your average regency romance, I admit it. There's no logic to these stories and not everything in them can be explained...it's supposed to be magic. If you are looking for a regency romance, there are lots of good ones out there...try one of them, but, if you are looking for a collection of romantic fairytales set in regency England, you've found it!	2003-09-21
US	35109488	R1Y02X1HFLMADB	0821759957	721165818	Once Upon A Time (Zebra Regency Romance Anthology)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Okay, It's Not For Everyone, But Maybe It's For You	Hmmm. Well, I don't quite agree with the other reviewers, but perhaps I'm not the best one to ask because I tend to adore anything of the fairy tale persuasion. <br />First off, you need to understand exactly what this book is. It's not your average regency romance where everything is logical and proper with a cup of tea to go with it. This is a book of fairy tales that happen to be set during the regency time period in England. There is magic and stuff that just isn't reasonable...like a fairy tale, which is ok because that is what it is. Some people who love regency romance will not like this book and that's totally fine with me. But there are some people who perhaps like fantasy, fairy tales, and magical happily ever afters out there...and this is the book for you.<br />P.S. If I had it to do over, I would buy this book for the Rumplestiltskin retelling alone.	2003-09-21
US	35109488	R3N0LUWV2VRC55	0743445120	731279639	Black Unicorn	Books	5	3	6	N	N	What a Find!	Tanaquil is the only daughter of a powerful sorceress who lives in a great fortress in the middle of a huge desert...but Tanaquil's life is not the fairy tale it may seem. Her mother is devoted to her magic and has very little to do with Tanaquil. Tanaquil has no magical ability of her own, no friends, and nothing to do but mend a few broken things about the fortress. She is bored, lonely, and discontent with her life.<br />Tanaquil's life is changed forever when she chances to find the skeleton of a unicorn. It is in bits and pieces and scattered, but Tanaquil finds the bones and puts the skeleton back together...and then the unicorn comes to life!<br />For some reason, Tanaquil is drawn to the unicorn and, when he flees her mother's desert, Tanaquil follows. And thus begins an adventure that will change Tanaquil's life forever...and reveal a surprising destiny.	2003-08-31
US	35109488	R3USJWZ35AD5YB	0765345684	605293373	Red Unicorn (Starscape)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Grand Finale	After many adventures and a few heartbreaks, Tanaquil returns home to her mother's fortress in the desert only to find that everything has changed. Tanaquil's mother has fallen in love and, if she spent little time with Tanaquil before, she spends none with her now. Tanaquil is considering moving on when adventure comes for her in the shape of a red unicorn...<br />The red unicorn leads Tanaquil into a world that mirrors her own. Everyone she knows and loves is in this world...even she is here in the form of a princess named Tanakil. But everything here is opposite. The sky is green, wolves eat nuts, and everyone that is evil in Tanaquil's world is good here... and vice versa. <br />Can Tanaquil stop her evil twin Tanakil before she does the unthinkable and murders her own sister? And will Tanaquil ever be able to return to her own world? And, more importantly, if she does, will Tanaquil have the courage to tell her half-sister the awful truth...that Tanaquil is in love with her half-sister's future husband? How could such a tangled story have a happy ending...you may be surprised.<br />This is the last book in the trilogy that also contains Black Unicorn and Red Unicorn. All three books are wonderful, but this one is by far the best. I highly recommend them all.	2003-08-31
US	35109488	R2XEXWFEPUJWV5	0689318146	294007553	Gold Unicorn (Dragonflight)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	War, Plagues, Star Crossed Lovers...to Begin With	Tanaquil has had the time of her life traveling and seeing all the wonders of the world for herself. But, as she begins to near her homeland, she hears rumors of horrible wars and a mad empress bent on conquering the world. Tanaquil fears for her mother and her half sister and heads straight for enemy territory in order to reach them...only to be captured by the empress' forces.<br />But that is not the worst, not by far, for, when Tanaquil is brought before the empress, who should it be but her own sister, Lizra! And Lizra has no intention of letting Tanaquil go. Lizra has had built a giant golden unicorn that will bring fear to the hearts of her enemies, but it will not work. She knows that Tanquil has an uncanny talent for mending things, so she commands Tanaquil to fix her unicorn. And Tanaquil does...against her better judgment.<br />Now the unicorn is destroying cities and slaughtering many. Tanaquil is sick over her part in Lizra's war, but she cannot leave...for she has fallen in love with Honj...who just happens to be the future husband of Lizra. How can they ever be together when a madwoman controls them...a madwomen they both care for...<br />This book is the sequel to Black Unicorn and equally as good as the first.	2003-08-31
US	35109488	R1QVHC2RYN3KJD	0449230686	961302182	Marry in Haste	Books	5	12	14	N	N	My Favorite Jane Aiken Hodge...and I've Read a Few	Camilla was far too young and lovely to be a governess, but she was quite alone in the world except for a disreputable father, and was desperate for funds. Her first job was going well enough until her employer's young male relative came for a visit. He had the nerve to attack Camilla in the garden...an indiscretion for which Camilla was shown the door. <br />And that is how Camilla's adventure began...all alone in the middle of nowhere waiting for a dreadfully late public stage with no job and little money, Camilla chances to meet an extraordinary stranger with an equally extraordinary proposal... a marriage of conveniece. It seems that he will be disinherited by his grandmother if he does not marry immmediately. And since he is desperate and Camilla has no where else to turn, she agrees against her better judgement.<br />Camilla soon begins to believe that she may actually live happily ever after...until she falls in love with her handsome husband and complicates everything. But worse by far is the shocking revelation that Camilla may not know the truth about her husband at all...could he really be...a spy?<br />Wicked good gothic romance. I have read it multiple times. A must for any Jane Aiken Hodge fan.	2003-08-31
US	35109488	R2MTNSAEGYRBY6	0142302082	857055178	Goose Chase	Books	5	19	20	N	N	I LUV IT! I LUV IT! I LUV IT! Get the picture?	One of the funniest and wittiest fairytales I've read all year. And it's original to boot.<br />Okay, we have a young goosegirl. She's rather plain, she's not overly fond of bathing or combing her hair, she's poor, alone in the world, and so on...a common peasant. When she shows kindness to a hideous old hag (who happens to be her fairy godmother and who, it may surprise you to know, is not in disguise) she is transformed into a glorious beauty who cries diamonds and brushes gold dust from her hair. <br />And now we have a goosegirl who is not only beautiful, but filthy rich...and pursued by a prince and a king. But when the goosegirl, Alexandria, refuses to marry either of her suitors, her gift becomes a living nightmare as they lock her in a tower and vow to keep her prisoner until she chooses one of them. <br />Hmmm. Bachelor number one is a cruel king who rules his country with an iron fist and a cold heart. He has had two other wives who have both died of mysterious causes. He enjoys polishing his weapons and killing small animals. Bachelor number two is a handsome young prince with no intelligence, wit, or conversation. Actually, he is as dumb as mud and, if he is chosen, he will probably be assinated by his rival. As you can see, it will not be an easy choice for our fair goosegirl.<br />What it will be is a romp through the lands of fairy with a brief nod to several beloved fairytales (Rapunzal, Cinderella, and lots more) that just might end with happily ever after...and true love.	2003-06-21
US	35109488	R3OR2AZDZRVIBI	0805412719	908266083	Name That Baby!: Every Parent's Guide to Names	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I keep it on my desk...don't ask!	Okay, I don't have kids, so I don't know how helpful this book would be to someone who is expecting, but it has proven very useful to me. I like to make up stories and do character sketches (confession: aspiring author) and I like to find beautiful names that are also meaningful and unusual. This book has all of it: unusual, common, and some of the slightly far out and their meanings. I love to look up the meaning of my friends' and family's names...so far, every name I've looked up has been in it. This book is worth every penny I payed for it plus having the handsome young salesclerk eye my tummy when I bought it. Sigh.	2003-06-21
US	35109488	R2TPRLZ6IOG8DA	0451209079	460530872	The Secret Diary (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not Martha Kirkland's Best	Olivia Mallory, upon her cousin Jane's death, finds that Jane had secretly corresponded with an unknown gentleman for several years. The two had exchanged, not only letters, but poetry as well. Olivia decides to try to get some of the poetry published, in memory of her beloved cousin.<br />Olivia and her sister, Esme, travel to London to speak with an interested publisher. But he will only publish Jane's poems on one condition: the unknown gentleman's poems and letters must be included in the volume. Olivia must find the man and get his permission to publish his work if she ever wants to have her dream of seeing her cousin's poems in print realized.<br />During her search, Olivia meets a handsome gentleman who makes her heart pound and her knees weak...and all clues point to him as Jane's love. But he denies knowing Jane. Could Olivia ever give her heart to such a cad? Looks like it...<br />I give it a 4 because Olivia was a spunky heroine and pretty witty. There were a number of \\"sparks\\" in this book, plus more than one romance (Esme meets her match as well). It was likeable and amusing, though far from Martha Kirkland's best. I expected a bit more from her. The big \\"mystery\\" was completely unmysterious and rather predictable, but the romance saved it.	2003-06-21
US	35109488	R3SGYG7ON0AD00	0689855575	541693349	Midnight Pearls	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Under the Sea	It all began one day when a fisherman rescued a little girl out of a storm. With no clue as to who she was or where she came from, the fisherman and his wife decided to raise her as their own.<br />Pearl grows into a beautiful, but unusual young woman who is shunned and often feared by the other villagers. The only person who seems to understand her is a handsome young man she has been secretly meeting on the beach since childhood, James.<br />The two begin to wonder if they may have something more than friendship between them, but their different social stations  seem to stand in their way. Pearl and James' love seems doomed, until a mysterious stranger appears and changes everything. <br />A very romantic and unique fairytale retelling. One of the best in the series.	2003-06-20
US	35109488	R1GCEF29S5JF03	0689855575	541693349	Midnight Pearls	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Love...Square?	One storm tossed night, a fisherman pulled an unusual little girl out of the sea. She spoke a foreign language and seemed to have no knowledge of her past. The only clue to her identity was a perfect black pearl that she had brought with her out of the sea...so the fisherman and his wife raised her as their own...<br />Years later, Pearl has grown into a stunning beauty, but the villagers are afraid of her because she is different. The only one who understands her is James, the crown prince of Astra, who met Pearl on the beach one day when they were children...and then came to see her at least once a week ever after that. They become the best of friends...but could they ever be something more?<br />They are just beginning to explore the possibility when two mysterious strangers enter their lives...threatening to rip Pearl and James' dreams apart...or will new dreams be found? Read it and find out! Really unique retelling of The Little Mermaid...I loved it!	2003-06-14
US	35109488	R2KU6RSJY1BH9I	0553580124	732426833	The Grand Ellipse	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Best Thing I've Encountered in a Long While	I was dazzled, shocked, transported out of this world...I had almost forgotten that that was what fantasy was supposed to do. In a nutshell, do yourself a grand favor and get this book. <br />The heroine is Luzelle Devaire, a beautiful young woman who also happens to be a seasoned traveler, an authoress, and lecturer of some note. All of this brings her to the attention of her rather desperate government. The acknowledged superpower of the day is bent on expansion at any cost and Luzelle's homeland appears to be the next target. Luzelle is recruited to enter a race called the Grand Ellipse that is the latest scheme proposed by a neighboring king of a neutral country...a country that holds the key to the greatest discovery of the age...living fire that obeys every command of its master. Luzelle's mission is to win the race, which will bring her to the king's attention, and then woo the infamous skirt-chaser into selling her the secret of Masterfire. <br />Luzelle is looking forward to the adventure, but it turns out to more than she had expected. As she travels through marvelous lands of beauty, intrigue, and danger, she will face her greatest fears and then some and make some of the hardest decisions of her life, not the least of which is between the two men who have touched her heart, a love from the past and a soldier from an enemy army...<br />Take the Amazing Race, throw in politics, murder, deceit, desperation, war, danger, and romance and you have the Grand Ellipse. The world building is enough to blow you right out of THIS world. I highly recommend it.	2003-05-20
US	35109488	R2RZ2ZHG48F8D2	0821773534	658723905	Frost Fair Fiance (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Melting Hearts...	Elise, being a sensible young woman, agrees to marry her very proper next door neighbor to put her seriously ill papa at ease. She does not love him, but he is a good man and the match pleases her father, who has been worried about what would become of his two daughters if he should die. When everything is settled, Elise's father sends her and her younger sister, Olivia, to London to buy wedding clothes for Elise and to visit their aunt and cousins. <br />Elise finds herself dazzled by a dashing young London gentlemen and, fancying herself in love with him, she writes to her father and fiance and calls off her engagement. But then Elise's suitor turns out to be not what he seems and Elise finds her heart leading her in an unexpected direction. <br />Very unique book. Sequel to An Icy Affair.	2003-05-14
US	35109488	R2QAOS4H880BOP	0451172353	653304486	The Hidden Heart (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Is their romance really just pretend?	Miles thought that nothing would ever come of the tiny little fib he told to pacify an elderly aunt. He was wrong! His aunt does not believe the lie, namely that Miles is engaged, and she is journeying to his country estate with her idea of the perfect bride...and she's not leaving until Miles IS engaged. Miles, in sheer panic of the noose some people call matrimony, begs his long time friend, Caroline, to pretend to be his intended.<br />What Miles doesn't know is that his &quot;best friend&quot; has secretly been in love with him for the past six years. Can Caroline convince Miles to make their engagement real...or will he break her heart all over again?	2003-05-11
US	35109488	RXNSWPN84A68B	037331101X	45692450	Matched Pair	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Are they deceiving the Ton or themselves?	Samantha is in quite a tangle. Her father is dead and her gambling rogue of an uncle is running their estate into the ground with his carefree spending and losses at the tables. Sam tries to warn her uncle that they are on the brink of ruination, but he refuses to listen to his ward. Their only hope is the continued success of their famous stables. But, to Samantha's horror, she finds out that her uncle has recently bet the pick of their stables and lost. If the winner makes the obvious choice and takes their famous stallion, Black Knight, then the family will lose almost all of their income.<br />Samantha is determined to hate the handsome lord who has come to take their livelihood, but he turns out to be nothing like she expected. He is a gallant gentleman...and he actually prefers Sam to her stunningly beautiful sister, Emily. When he offers to let Sam keep Black Knight in exchange for coming to London and keeping the matchmaking mamas off his back by pretending to be his soon to be announced fiancee, it seems to good to be true. And it is...because Sam has done the most foolish thing imagineable. She has fallen in love!	2003-05-06
US	35109488	R3Q1JO1H1GPEV8	0373312059	374720513	The Temporary Bride (Harlequin Regency Romance, No 105)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Governess and the Gambler	Helen, left impoverished after her father's death, is on her way to her very first position as a governess. Her journey goes smoothly until she accidently takes the wrong luggage off the public conveyance. She is nabbed by a strange man and taken to the infamous gambler Mr. Darcy, who presents her with a shocking tale of blackmail and false identities. It seems that Mr. Darcy has followed a man from Italy to England, in pursuit of the luggage Helen now posseses because he believes certain documents are concealed within in it. He asks Helen to pose as his wife until he can locate the documents. It's the strangest thing she has ever heard in her life, but Helen accepts.<br />And thus Helen is swept up in an adventure that proves both dangerous and exhilerating. But she can't help but wonder...who exactly is Mr. Darcy? And how can Helen bare to part ways with him when the mystery is solved? The gambler seems to have won her heart.	2003-04-26
US	35109488	R1FBQFG07GFUXW	0373311974	935507243	Becca'S Independence	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Can a lie lead to love?	Lady Rebecca Dunleavy, rebelling against an arranged marriage, runs away from the strict aunt and uncle who have cared for her since her father's death. Becca hopes to find a respectable position and support herself until she is able to take charge of the large inheritance that will come to her when she turns 25. Posing as plain Rebecca Dunn, she seeks out some distant relatives in London. They immediately take her in and give her the post of chaperone to the strong-willed Lady Emily. <br />But it is Lady Emily's brother, Lucas, that has Becca at loose ends. At first, he was determined to find another woman to fill the post as Emily's chaperone, thinking Rebecca far too young for the job. Far worse was when he seemed to fall in love...and determined to find out everything about the lovely Becca. And Becca has fallen for him too. But, will Lucas forgive her when he finds out she has deceived them all?	2003-04-20
US	35109488	R1SWSO7OZ5SBT0	0743243978	833921115	Mr. Darcy's Daughters: A Novel	Books	5	26	34	N	N	Deja Vu, but in a Good Way...	It's over twenty years since the eligible Fitzwilliam Darcy married the ineligible Elizabeth Bennett for love. We find them still very much in love and the parents of seven. The oldest five of which are young ladies of a marriageable age.<br />Mr. Darcy must take a business trip to Constantinople and his wife decides to accompany him on a journey which should last several months. The girls are to stay with Darcy's cousin, Fitzwilliam, and his wife in London, while the youngest children, two boys, will stay at Pemberley with Elizabeth's father.<br />And thus five country maidens who lack neither fortune or beauty find themselves in the glittering swirl that is the London Season...without their parents' watchful eyes. Let the games begin...<br />Leticia- Longs for the love she lost three years before at Waterloo, only to discover that he is still alive and married to another woman, sending Leticia down an unexpected road that could lead to heartache or true love.<br />Camilla- The sensible and intelligent one forms a tendre that proves unsensible in the extreme...<br />Georgiana and Belle- The beautiful Darcy twins are taken under their Aunt Lydia's wing...need I say more?<br />Alethia- The youngest of the sisters has a few secrets of her own.<br />Pride and Prejudice fans will adore it. A first rate sequal.	2003-04-15
US	35109488	R16NOVI97Y1IKH	0821772929	909462950	When The Slipper Fits (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Cinderella in a Hot Air Balloon?	Luella Sanderson, upon the close of the lady's academy that has been her home for the past several years, must leave her dearest friends and journey to her aunt's home in Surrey. Ella, left penniless by her parents' untimely deaths, is forced to depend on her aunt by marriage's goodwill. She sees immediately that she will not be the beloved niece fallen on hard times, but the unpaid servant of her mercenary aunt and spoiled cousins.<br />Ella is forced to act as the housekeeper and cook for her aunt's brother, Mr. Banks, who lives in a cottage on his sister's estate. She is frightened by her cousins' story of a crazy uncle, only to find he is a dear elderly scientist who spends all his time working on a hot air balloon. He treats Ella with kindness and they become like father and daughter. Ella is actually happy in her new situation. Then HE arrives...<br />The Earl of Shalford has been sent to Surrey by his father to find a wife. Gabe got into the whole mess by taking the blame for his younger brother's latest scandal, saving Daniel from being sent to the family holdings in Calcutta, but forcing Gabe to lose his freedom to the parson's noose.<br />Now the neighborhood is in a flurry. Matchmaking mamas are biting at the bit and marriageable ladies are popping out of the woodwork. Perhaps that is why Gabe and Daniel were so relieved to find a distraction in their interesting neighbor Mr. Banks and his hot air balloon. And why Gabe has taken an interest in the only young lady in Surrey who has not thrown herself at his head...a little maid named Ella...	2003-04-06
US	35109488	RAJ324VW27KIR	0821774824	679430537	A Rogue's Wager (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Wager, or Two, or Three...	When Harriet was a young woman, she fell madly in love with a well known rogue. They were engaged soon after meeting and the very next day, he was caught in a passionate embrace with another woman...Harriet's own cousin.<br />Seven years later, Harriet is still unwed...and very much in love with the heartbreaker, dash it all! To make matters worse, her dearest friends are determined to throw the two together by convincing Harriet to weigh in on a shocking wager. She must gain her ex-fiance's three most prized possesions in a single week. And if she doesn't? She must agree to marry the fiend...<br />As for the aforementioned fiend? He has agreed to a wager too. His friends have bet him that he can not regain the beauty's love. And now he is quite determined...<br />This is a novel of misunderstandings, tangles, triangles, and second chances at love. It's not the best Regency romance that I've ever read, but it's very amusing and not a waste of time at all.	2003-03-26
US	35109488	R90F1FYL2IA6P	0689855567	948772620	Snow	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Once Upon A Time....	Long ago in Wales, there lived a Duke and his Duchess. More than anything, they wanted a child of their own. After many years of waiting, the Duchess discovered that she was expecting. But the time of joy turned into a time of sorrow when the Duchess died from giving birth to a daughter. The Duke lost himself in his own grief and seemed to forget he even had a daughter. Jessica, as her mother had named the child with her final breath, grew up helping Cook in the kitchen and playing with the servants' children. And she was happy.<br />But change was coming. Although the Duke did not want to marry again, for the good of his people he needed an heir. And so he took a beautiful English rose as his bride. <br />Jessica was excited at first. She wanted a mother very badly. The new duchess was not the kind of mother Jessica craved, but she was nice enough in her own way. Jessica thought that she would be content, even if she was not as free as she had been as a young child. <br />Time passed and the new Duchess had not yet born a child...and she was not getting any younger. But more than that disturbed the beauty. She had heard that people were calling Jessica very fair, perhaps the fairest of them all. And THAT simply would not do...<br />They say that Jessica's stepmother is a great beauty, that's true...some call her something else too...a witch.	2003-03-16
US	35109488	R23Q7SSESH7QJ3	0886773768	323945225	Sword-Dancer (Tiger and Del)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Tiger might say, &quot;Hoolies, what a read!&quot;	Tiger is the best sword-dancer in the whole south...but being the best can get old. So a new adventure is exactly what the Tiger needs...especially a new adventure that comes in the shape of a gorgeous blonde named Del. <br />Del is a sword-dancer from the North who has come south in search of her brother who was taken by slavers five years before. Tiger agrees to be Del's guide over the desert and to help her with her search. (Since she is gorgeous and making a few extra coins would not hurt.)<br />And thus begins an epic adventure that will bring Tiger and Del face to face with their greatest fears...and if they had known they would encounter cannibals, slavers, desert storms, and sandtigers (to name a few) on their journey as well, those would have certainly been on the greatest fears list. <br />This book has it all: adventure, danger, sword-play, mystery, fantasy, and perhaps even the beginning of a romance. Everything is told from Tiger's point of view...which is laugh out loud funny. I totally recommend this book.	2003-03-01
US	35109488	R2FEPPD5J4QBBV	0142302236	276531870	The Riddle of the Wren	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What if Dreams Came True?	Minda Sealy's life is not the best, but it's normal enough and all she's ever known besides. Working at her father's inn keeps her fed and ensures a place to sleep...and if her father's a little short-tempered...well, she can deal with that. <br />But lately Minda has been plagued by a recurring nightmare that seems frighteningly real. Of course that's nonsense...right?<BR>Soon, the nightmare has worsened, and Minda's quest to rid her sleep of tortured dreams soon becomes a quest in truth that will take her far from home and closer to discovering the reality of dreams...<br />This is good fantasy! The characters are unique, funny, and lovable. The different places Minda encounters are startling, beautiful, and often dangerous. People who love a good fantasy quest should check this out.	2003-03-01
US	35109488	R35T6B7CU48H5C	0765343266	634479806	Son of the Shadows (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Story Continues With a New Generation	Our beloved characters from Daughter of the Forest are all grown up and past the dark time that came so close to destroying them all. But the threat is not yet vanquished...it has simply set it's sights on the next generation at Sevenwaters... <br />Niamth- The eldest daughter of Sorcha and Lord Hugh. Her forbidden romance with a young druid with mysterious connections to her family will split her family down the middle and will take her down an unforeseen road that will change the future of Sevenwaters itself. <br />Sean- The eldest son of Sorcha and Hugh and the heir to Sevenwaters. His exalted position may cost him all he holds dear...including the woman he loves.<br />Liaden- The youngest child of Sorcha and Hugh. She is the dutiful daughter of Sevenwaters and the very image of Sorcha. Liaden too has found her calling in healing and herblore. But her skills soon bring her to the attention of a band of ruthless mercenaries who have been plaguing the countryside. Her connection to The Painted Man and his band could be Sevenwaters deliverance...or doom.<br />This book is a romantic and intense adventure that proves to be a worthy sequal. If you liked Daughter of the Forest, this is definately worth a read...it's just as good.	2003-03-01
US	35109488	R3O3J5Y1TKOZJ2	0765343436	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Beautiful Vision of a Novel	I love retellings of classic fairytales and, although that's the reason I bought this book in the first place, I soon realized that it is so much more than that. This book is an intense read...that's the only way to describe it.<br />Sorcha is the seventh child of a powerful Irish Lord. Her mother died giving birth to her and her father, Lord Colum, grew cold and distant and busied himself with war against his country's fierce enemies. Sorcha was raised by her six brothers and they grew up inseparable and free in the mystical forest that protects their estate.<br />But as the siblings reach adulthood, they begin to take different paths in life. Sorcha hates the change and longs for them all to be as they were before. But still more change is at hand. Lord Colum has brought home a bride...<br />The Lady Oonaugh is a beautiful and mysterious woman who seems to have Lord Colum at her beck and call. And, after the wedding, strange things begin to happen...sinister things. Sorcha and her brothers begin to have their doubts and fears of what the estate has become since their stepmother's arrival. They decide to take matters in their own hands and summon the Queen of the Fairies to help them. But their stepmother learns of their plans and uses her dark sorcery to keep them from contacting the Lady of the Forest and also places an evil enchantment on the siblings that changes them into wild beasts...with the exception of one.<br />Sorcha manages to escape from her stepmother, but with nowhere to go and no one to help she is in despair. But the Lady of the Forest heard their cry for help and appears to Sorcha, giving her a cruel task that, if strictly kept to, would release her brothers. But time is limited. <br />Sorcha soon realizes how horrible her task is, but she sticks with it out of love for her brothers. And then everything is turned upside down again when Sorcha falls into the hands of the Britions, her people's sworn enemies. Can Sorcha save her brothers as a captive in a foreign land?<br />This is one good book. I recommend it to everyone who likes epic fantasy and unique fairytale retellings. And if that doesn't pull you in, try it for the love story, which was sentimental, sweet, painful, dangerous, forbidden, and oh so wonderful...	2003-02-26
US	35109488	R11RC1LPN6FXD	0060009144	920520189	Amelia and the Outlaw	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Stolen Hearts and Second Chances	Jesse's life has been anything, but easy. He was abandoned as a baby and passed from caretaker to caretaker. At the age of 14, Jesse finally found a place where he felt welcome... in a notorious gang of bankrobbers. But when things went wrong, it was Jesse who had to pay for the crimes of the gang with a ten year jail sentence.<br />Now, five years have passed and Jesse is no longer a boy, but a man...and one who might get a second chance at that. The judge that sentenced him has died and the judge's replacement, after reviewing his predecessor's notes, has decided that the sentence was far too harsh for a 14 year old kid. So Judge Harper invites Jesse to serve out his remaining time on the Harper's ranch as a hand.<br />Jesse accepts the offer and begins to look forward to something like a normal life...until he meets the judge's breathtakingly beautiful daughter, Amelia. Amelia and Jesse are drawn to each other despite the judge's warning...mess with Amelia and straight back to jail Jesse goes. <br />Amelia wants freedom and excitement and she just knows that that is what she'll find with Jesse. But as Amelia gets to know him and senses his loneliness and pain, she begins to see past what he represents to the man...and she begins to love him. But love between the outlaw and the judge's daughter is not only forbidden, it's also dangerous... <br />This is by far one of the best books in the series. The other book by this author, Samantha and the Cowboy, is really great too.	2003-02-16
US	35109488	R2N0H77PBVAJI5	0441092616	344580898	Cattle Annie and Little Britches	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Confessions of a Lady Outlaw	Okay, it's been a long time since I read this book, but it has stuck with me over the years and I think I can do it's review justice...hopefully. <br />The book is told from Little Britches' point of view...I forget her real name. Anyway Little Britches and Annie are best friends...actually, I guess it's more like Little Britches is the sidekick to the beautiful and wild Annie. Annie wants something more from life and she sees her chance for freedom and adventure when the girls meet up with a notorious gang of thieves. Annie soon begins a passionate affair with the gang's leader, while Little Britches loses her heart to another member of the gang. The girls are soon introduced to a life of crime and they begin taking part in the gang's unlawful activities. But will the girls realize, too late, that their lark is something far more dangerous than they ever anticipated?<br />This is not a book for kids and this is not a fairytale romance. This is a look at the Wild West through the eyes of a woman outlaw. It's gritty and real and you'll probably never forget it, if you read it.	2003-02-16
US	35109488	R3ASUXB719HN03	0441009344	739800863	Winter Rose	Books	5	39	39	N	N	A Beautiful Vision of a Tale	How can two sisters be so different? Laurel is beautiful, proper, thoughtful, and utterly sensible. She calmly cares for her widowed father and plans her wedding to her childhood sweetheart. Rois is a wild freespirit who roams the woods by day and sometimes by night searching for something even she could not name. But they soon discover that they have one thing in common...his name is Corbet Lynn...<br />Corbet returns to his father's childhood home and begins restoration work amid a storm of rumors and gossip. Corbet's grandfather was murdered in that house and most believe that Corbet's father was the guilty party. But all know, whether his son murdered him or not, that the old man used his last breath to place a dreadful curse on his son...and his son's descendents. <br />Almost as soon as Rois sets eyes upon the young man, she is determined to unravel the mysteries of his past. But her fascination with his unusual history is soon replaced by feelings that are much stronger. She never expected that she would give her heart so easily...or that her feelings would not be returned when she did.  It would seem that Corbet has taken a fancy to Laurel...who returns his feelings whole heartedly, fiancee or no.<br />But Rois can not back out of the picture as easily as she got into it. As the curse begins to bear fruit, Rois finds herself tangled in its web. She realizes that it is up to her to save the man she loves...even if she saves him so that he can freely love another...her own sister. What Rois didn't count on was the truths she would learn about her own past...and her surprising destiny...<br />Reading this book was like looking at a beautiful painting. The word pictures are marvelous and the emotions are almost too real. Readers are swept away in a tide of romance, jealousy, hatred, and mystery. Fantasy readers will love it!	2003-02-15
US	35109488	R2B8EVITRCYZ5Y	067187750X	344308070	The Fire Rose (The Elemental Masters Fairy Tales)	Books	5	70	74	N	N	Never, Ever Judge a Book By It's Cover...	I have read so many retellings of Beauty and the Beast. It takes a lot to impress me anymore. I was not impressed by this one either...I was astounded and overjoyed. It is so fresh and unique, no matter what the cover looks like.<br />Here is a slice of plot for you. Rose Hawkins' world is turned upside down by the sudden death of her father. Her world spins out of control when she finds out that her father has left her penniless. So, with very few respectable options, Rose journeys from her home in Chicago to mysterious San Fransisco to become a governess in a wealthy household. She arrives to find that she has been deceived, there are no children, only a wealthy invalid who longs for someone to help with his research. Rose stays and is content...for awhile. Rose is far too intelligent not to notice that things are not exactly as they seem. Where are the servants? Why can't she see her employer's face? And what are the strange manuscripts she must read to him? I don't want to spoil it, so I'll stop right there.<br />This is a great book. The love story is romantic, but never sappy. Best of all, you feel like they really get to know and understand each other. There is some mystery, adventure, and magic thrown in too. And a rather unusual, but just right, happily ever after.	2003-02-11
US	35109488	R2LJB2LFDBIPGV	0451187210	314639862	The Honorable Thief (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	It Was Just One Of Those Days...	Honor's day had gone from bad to worse. It was one thing to be fired from one's post as a governess, sent from the house in shame, and made to walk to the nearest village (not nearly near enough) in deep snow. And all this because her employer's nephew assaulted HER! It was another thing to come across an unconscious man, lying amid a wrecked carriage, and, out of sheer desperation, steal enough money to hire a ride. <br />And now Honor, who was, of course, caught red handed by the world's most obnoxious postboy, must claim to be the unconscious gentleman's wife to avoid severe punishment. <br />But that is only the beginning. When the gentleman awakens and apparently believes Honor's ruse, Honor finds herself in the world's biggest tangle...especially when the gentleman unknowingly begins to steal his \\"wife's\\" heart.<BR> <BR>Delightful and funny! Another gem by Martha Kirkland...don't miss it.	2003-01-08
US	35109488	RLJM58XUS13VO	0451206061	632998131	A Game of Patience (Trialsman, 247)	Books	1	8	12	N	N	I guess it's a matter of opinion...	The plot really was a good idea and the hero of the story was wonderful, BUT (you knew a but was coming) I really did not like the fact that Patience was totally obsessed with another man until the last few pages of the book. I would have loved to have seen Patience and Richard's relationship develop, but I was left with the feeling that the end of the book was only the barest of beginnings of their romance. Most of the time I was reading this book, I was longing to hit Patience over the head for ignoring the man who was so desperately in love with her. <br />The last straw for me was the scene (which was a tad much for a regency romance) where Patience came close to losing her virginity to her childhood crush, Pip. It was too detailed, if you get what I mean, and it was close to the end of the book, which made it worse some how.<br />This book gets one star for poor Richard. Elisabeth Fairchild has written much better...	2003-01-04
US	35109488	R1FK059NNTOINS	0821771051	120006352	A Much Compromised Lady (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Cost of Respectability	Beautiful Glynis and her brother, Christopher, have spent their whole lives on the road as care-free gypsies. But then their mother tells them the startling truth...their father was a lord whose inheritance was stolen from him by his younger brother. Their mother even believes that their uncle is responsible for their father's mysterious death. And thus Glynis and Christopher embark on a dangerous mission to learn the full truth of their shadowed past and gain their rightful inheritance. <br />Their first attempt to steal the documents that prove their mother was indeed married to their father fails miserably, but throws Glynis into the path of the notorious Lord St. Albans. He is unable to forget her and determines to help the siblings on their quest...for reasons of his own.<br />And so a story of intrigue and danger begins with few to be trusted and the stakes almost too high. But Glynis finds the greatest danger is her own growing feelings for the heartless rogue, St. Albans. Glynis is posing as his mistress in order to move in the same circles as her uncle...and St. Albans would like to make the arrangement real. Glynis should be outraged, but instead she more tempted than she thought possible. Could the price for her brother's respectability be her own?<br />And just so you know, Proper Conduct by Shannon Donnelly contains the love stories of both Christopher and Bryn.	2003-01-03
US	35109488	R3QTZ95TO6B0UI	082177106X	418017982	Proper Conduct (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Take one independant lady, add one fiery lord, simmer...	The recipe for a successful romance is, of course, chemistry between the hero and heroine...and this book aced its chemistry test!<br />Penelope is at her wits end. Her father means well and his business ventures are meant to benefit the family, but, instead, he has brought them to the brinks of finacial ruin and is about to plunge them into poverty with his latest scheme. He has no head for business, but instead of learning from his mistakes, he takes risk after risk, trying to restore the family fortune. Penelope does not mind so much being poor, but she knows she must convince her father to give up his mad schemes for the sake of her invalid mother and two younger sisters.<br />To further complicate Penelope's life, her father has just spent a fortune on a horse with good bloodlines and a dangerous wild streak, her sister fancies herself in love with a well-known rogue, and the relatives of the man who tricked her father into his first investment have come to make amends...with a new investment that could not fail.<br />Penelope is determined not to trust the new Lord Nevin and is trying her hardest to keep her father from investing with the rogue. But then her father cuts up her peace by inviting the lord and his cousin to stay, so that Lord Nevin can work with the untamed stallion. It would not be so bad if Nevin was not so dashed handsome, so blasted charming, and so confounded intent on becoming her friend. She is drawn to him, but how can she give her heart to a man she fears to trust? Penelope is familiar with the pain of a broken heart, and she knows better than to make the same mistake twice...doesn't she?<br />The plot is good, but it's the conversations and tension between the main couple that makes the story worth five stars. A secondary romance in the book made it all the more charming. Be sure to check out A Much Compromised Lady, which is the story of Lord Nevin's sister, Glynis.	2002-12-18
US	35109488	R38U35NIA8TO66	0821773909	14638615	The Dowager's Daughter (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Smugglers, Spies...Love at First Sight?	Althea Markham is more or less your average debutante...rich, titled, well-mannered, and pretty enough. But her mother, Celeste, is not your average dowager...strikingly beautiful, free-spirited, and utterly scandalous. When Celeste strikes up a dalliance with a well-known rogue, who has ruined more than one young lady, Althea decides that it is time to leave the glitter of London for their country home. Her mother agrees without protest and Althea soon discovers why... her mother is using their isolation to secretly meet with a strange man in the dead of night! Althea begins to spy upon the pair who, instead of being lovers, appear to be engaged in smuggling. Althea confronts her mother and finds to her horror that it is much more dangerous than that. Celeste is secretly aiding a Frenchman who is determined to undermine Napolean's rule. Celeste's contact is a spy named John...someone Althea has briefly met before, but has never forgotten. But John has more secrets than Althea could ever guess, including that he has fallen in love with her at first sight. John's true identity could make it possible for them to wed...or drive Althea away forever. And that is only a small slice of an engaging regency romance where not all is as it seems...<br />Even though the plot was very original, what I liked best about this book was the cast of characters. Althea is an engaging heroine that it is easy to relate to. She has lived a lot in her mother's shadow. She is unsure of herself and very afraid that the only reason men are interested in her is her money. John is a lot like Althea. He has lived in his older brother's shadow and perhaps that helps him see the true beauty of Althea more easily than most do. He has met Celeste, but he still only has eyes for Althea which makes him a very likeable hero. Celeste is such a lovable character. She is like that certain someone most of us have in our lives...the one who is outgoing, smart, funny, and good looking, but they are so charming you just can't be jealous of them. Just a great book all around...check it out.	2002-12-13
US	35109488	R1JT4NH1EEP95V	074342221X	555906109	Beauty Sleep	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A Book Worth Losing Sleep Over	The story begins pretty much like you would expect a retelling of Sleeping Beauty to. The whole once upon a time, the king and queen longing to have a child, finally have a beautiful baby girl, forget to invite someone to christening, forgotten someone curses child, and so on and so forth. But this only takes up the first couple of pages. Everything that follows turns the beloved fairytale upside down and inside out...<br />Aurore is the spunky and very much awake \\"sleeping beauty\\" and the narrator of the tale. The main focus of the book is not about the long sleep or the kiss or anything you might at first suspect. Instead it focuses on what is was like growing up with such a threat looming in the not so distant future. <br />Aurore has always known what the future held in store for her, but it has not kept her from living her life to the fullest. She works beside the common people, helping them, and loves to explore the outside world that was forbidden to her for a long time by an overprotective mother. But when she turns 16, the year she is destined to prick her finger, the curse begins to show itself in the weather and in the animals with opposites seeming to war with each other, even as the curse and the anti-spell of sleep instead of death war within Aurore. When Aurore decides to run away to the enchanted forest to protect her people from the curse she carries within herself, Aurore finds her destiny ...and her true love, in something entirely unexpected...<br />I always say that any story can be turned topsy-turvy with a couple of what ifs...and this book has convinced me that Cameron Dokey believes that too. What if the person who cursed sleeping beauty was not essentially evil? Could living with the the fear of the curse be the real curse? What if sleeping beauty met the man of her dreams before she pricked her finger? What if sleeping beauty took her destiny in her own hands? Can you changer your destiny...do you really want to? Can love stand the test oftime? But enough of that...you get the picture. Just so you know...it does end happily...	2002-12-11
US	35109488	RYDWDJIMZAS6H	0821757121	604107734	Elizabeth And The Major (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Love or Money?	An elderly, unmarried lady with a considerable estate has decided that it is time to name her heir. Instead of leaving her fortune to her nearest male relative, she will research her family tree and find a deserving young lady to inherit. She finds three young cousins, all in need of financial aid, and invites them to a houseparty at her estate so that she can get to know them better and decide who would benefit the most from her generosity. Let the games begin...<br />The heroine of our story is Elizabeth Fields, a widowed vicar's eldest daughter. Since the death of her mother, she has taken over the responsiblity of the parsonage and raising her younger siblings. Her father fears that she will never marry, holed up in the country and refusing to go to London for a season. So, when Elizabeth's childhood friend, Julia, must travel to a distant cousin's to be considered for an inheritance, the vicar eagerly accepts Julia's mother's invitation for Elizabeth to act as chaperone in her absence. He hopes that the holiday will be good for his daughter and convince her that she can marry and leave her family in good conscience. Elizabeth is reluctant to go at first, but becomes excited at the prospect of helping her shy friend escape her overbearing mother.<br />Julia's rivals are a Miss Myra Bradford, accompanied by her mother, and Miss Imogene Shelton, who traveled with her half-brother, Major Roderick Shelton. Myra is a would be social climber who drops well known names into every conversation and who wants the fortune to ensure herself a good marriage. Imogene is an outgoing girl, just out of the school room. She would like to inherit so that she would no longer be her brother's responsibility. Sir Gordon, the above mentioned nearest male relative, drops in on the houseparty as well, in a final attempt to gain the inheritance that should have been his...and he will go to any length...<br />As Sir Gordon slanders the young ladies to his cousin and attempts to court allthree on the side, Elizabeth and Roderick become reluctant allies in seeing to it that Gordon does not unfairly ruin anyone's chances. But as a series of pranks begin to get out of hand, both Roderick and Elizabeth suspect each other of trying to put the others in a bad light. As instant attraction grows into something deeper, the couple must risk it all for love...or money.<br />This was the first book by Lynn Collum that I ever read and it inspired me to get all her books. She creates realistic characters and original plots in her works. She is a wonderful Regency romance writer who delivers books you will want to read again and again.	2002-12-08
US	35109488	RQ684BA4QDNBR	0451201388	669470815	The Selfless Sister (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Regency Mystery	Lucinda has stepped back and let her younger sisters marry before her...several times. Now she and her youngest sister are the only two left unmarried, but their parents have been left almost penniless because of the generous doweries they gave their other daughters. They can scrape up enough for one more dowry and they are determined that Lucinda should take it and marry, being the second eldest. But Lucinda knows that her sister, Henrietta, is in love, so she convinces her parents to let Henrietta marry while Lucinda goes in her place as companion to their aunt.<br />Lucinda finds her welcome a little cold to say the least. The family itself is subdued and a little odd. They all seem to live in horror of a tragedy that they constantly refer to that happened twenty-five years before. They blame their neighbors entirely for the incident and harbor a deep hate for all the Belingtons.<br />Lucinda escapes the dreary household and her cousin, Edgerton's, iron rule by visiting the beautiful forest at the edge of her cousin's property. There, she sketches birds and takes time to think. But everything is turned topsy turvy when she meets an intriguing and handsome stranger in the woods one day...one Douglas, Lord Belington...<br />They begin to meet \\"accidently\\" on a regular basis and love is beginning to bloom. As Lucinda begins to know Douglas better and know more of the mystery that destroyed two families, she determines to find out what really happened. But she did not count on her cousin's black rage and pure hate. If he should ever learn of her forbidden romance, the consequences would be dire...<br />This was a lovely romance and the mystery had a surprising conclusion. If you liked this book, check out Shirley Kennedy's other regency romances. She's a great author.	2002-12-05
US	35109488	RPY8NPF2JKKWD	0821766082	772910822	That Scandalous Heiress (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Romance So Good...It Was Scandalous	Marianne, an orphan, has lived with a strict great-aunt for nine years, to the dissatisfaction of both parties. So, when Marianne learns of an inheritance from a mysterious benefactor, she jumps at the chance to live an independent existence. She moves from Wales to the distant village of Chelmford, where she begins the task of setting her new home, Bibb Grange, to rights. It's a formidable enough task without the desertion of the Bibb Grange servants and the unfriendliness of the villagers. They do not believe that an unmarried gentlewoman would set up housekeeping alone, and thus believe the absolute worst of Marianne.<br />The only people willing to associate with Marianne are a young village woman with a child, who becomes her housekeeper, and her next door neighbor, Lord Adam Jenson, a man with a black reputation. Adam and Marianne become close friends, in spite of both their reputations(or perhaps because of), and their rather rocky introduction(he almost ran over her with his horse). Love appears to be in the air...if Marianne and Adam could just admit it to themselves, much less each other. But someone appears to be after Marianne's humble inheritance. She finds evidence more than once that someone has been lurking around Bibb Grange at night...and inside it. Can Adam protect Marianne, especially when his own life appears to be in danger?<br />Another excellent love story from Martha Kirkland. The hero was a delightful rogue with a good heart and the heroine was a spunky, take charge female. Give this book a try. I doubt you'll regret it.	2002-12-05
US	35109488	R1CPFU0AIWV5B8	0821772899	453126867	A Matchmaker's Christmas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun read...	The reason I gave this book four stars is that it really contained three love stories in one and none of them got the length or developement that they deserved. You fall in love with the three very different, but all delightful couples and just when you are pulled into one love story and thoroughly caught, it jumps to another. That is my only complaint.<br />The plot was delightful in itself. An elderly lady decides to hold a Christmas house party and throw two couples that would be utterly perfect for each other in close proximity. But everything goes wrong (or right, depending on point of view) when love, not to mention some unexpected guests, are thrown into the mix.<br />Couple Number One: Beatrice, our matchmaker's companion, and David, the matchmaker's godson. They appear to be perfect for each other and their attraction is undeniable, but they share a past that could ruin their future before it ever begins. <br />Couple Number Two: Lady Silvia, a heiress and gentleman's daughter, and Mark, a poor vicar. This couple's story was the most romantic...and painful. Their love was immediate, but their different stations in life stand in the way.<br />Couple Number Three: Verity, an unconventional and wild Canadian, and Vaughn, a proper gentleman determined to marry...Silvia. <br />It's a merry Christmas indeed...full of second chances, first love, and plenty of mistletoe. Do not miss it!	2002-12-05
US	35109488	R3KZH62WIHEJIB	0380783746	943917180	Heart of the Hills (American Dreams)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It'll steal your heart	Kate Miller is excited to learn that her sister, Mattie, is pregnant. She anticipates being her sister's mid-wife until she realizes that her sister is due around the same time as several local women. Mattie lives in a rather isolated spot in the rough and tumble Wyoming territory and Kate knows that her sister most likely will not have the medical help that she needs. So, since she is unable to leave her clients, Kate sends her daughter, Carrie, who she has trained herself in the art of mid-wifing.<br />Carrie sets off on her adventure newly engaged and full of dreams. She arrives to a load of hardwork, a dangerous land, and a cowboy who is infuriating...to say the least. As Carrie finds herself called upon to do all the little things the local doctor doesn't have time for, Carrie feels like she has a place and a purpose in the Black Hills. The feeling of being at home grows as Carrie's dislike of a certain cowboy grows to feelings of true friendship and then into something much stronger. But as soon as her aunt's baby is born, Carrie must return home to her fiance and her old life...no matter what her heart is telling her.<br />This is a realistic and engaging book. Carrie is the perfect heroine: spunky, strong-willed, and utterly naive. It is a must read for fans of the American dreams series.	2002-12-03
US	35109488	RWXWDE1326MO	0380789523	559487782	Carrie's Gold (American Dreams)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	All that glitters....	Carrie Benson's life is not the fairytale existence she always dreamed of. She works in her uncle's mercantile, stocking shelves, and wears her beautiful cousin's cast offs. Carrie longs for something more than the poverty she lives in with her dreamer of a father, so, when he finds a new dream, the California Gold Rush, Carrie eagerly makes it a dream of her own and boldly begins the journey west with him. <br />The hardships of the trail are more than she bargained for. Dangers are around every bend: snakes, contaminated water, river crossings, quicksand, stampedes, and, certainly not least of all, a young medical student who makes Carrie doubt her golden dreams. But the journey there is only the beginning. The search for gold is back breaking and dangerous work and not nearly as profitable as they had hoped. But Carrie is consumed with her search for gold and security...to the point that her dream of riches may cost her her dream of love...<br />It's a really great book, even if it does not have as much romance as I had hoped it would. But it is full of adventure and is a very realistic look at the way the gold rush really was. It is interesting to watch Carrie grow from a child to a woman as she discovers what is really important. Give it a try.	2002-12-03
US	35109488	R1VRG45D0MUCVG	0441009077	459127178	Never After	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A fairy tale's fairy tale	Never After is a fairy tale within a fairy tale...several times over. If you are looking for passion, high drama, intrigue, or mystery...find another book. But, if you are a fairy tale lover with a funny bone, you've found what you're looking for.<br />I was afraid that I would not like this book at first, but as soon as I met the main heroine, Vevila, I was hooked...<br />The story starts out with a prince, who can only marry someone of equal or higher rank, on the hunt for a princess. He unfortunately lives during a time of severe princess shortages. He reads about a princess, cursed into eternal sleep, and goes on a quest to rescue her with his kiss. But even the best scribes can blow it, as the prince finds out. It's not a princess, but three identical princes who need a royal to awaken them with a kiss. But there is a lovely maiden asleep in their castle, so our prince, Athelstan, asks his cousin, Vevila, to break the curse for him. Since this will take her away from all her suitors, handsome yet boring certainly included, Vevila agrees. But the princes are guarded by their fairy godmother, and she will allow no one to kiss them until they have undergone a princess test...or two. So Vevila is locked up with a pile of straw and ordered to spin it into gold...and that's only the beginning.<br />Includes spoofs of The Frog Prince, Cinderella, The Princess and the Pea, and lots more. It was hilarious...especially the fairy godmother who happens to resemble a wicked witch and is slightly, well, nuts really. Try this book! It's great.	2002-11-28
US	35109488	R1MSPT8X5BLX0J	0380784769	262490573	Reyna's Reward (American Dreams)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A wonderful adventure	Unlike some of the books in The American Dreams series, this book focused more on the adventure than the romance. But I still loved it and I'm notorious as a hopeless romantic. It's probably a book that older teens would enjoy and understand better than younger ones would.<br />Anyway, the story is about a young mail-order bride that is captured by pirates on the way to her wedding. She is terrified at first and goes through many hardships, but finds that her new life with the pirates is much more exciting and more to her liking than life at a Spanish orphanage ever was or marriage to a wealthy older man ever could be. But Reyna's ideal life at the pirate's hide out is threatened by a coming war and a fiance that is unwilling to lose his investment, namely Reyna.<BR>To further complicate Reyna's life is an unexpected love for an unsuitable man that Reyna can never have, but who she can't live without.<br />I have fallen in love with this book every time I've read it. Give it a chance! You just might love it too. And if you like this book, be sure to check out the rest of the American Dreams series, especially Sarah on her Own.	2002-11-23
US	35109488	R2OYSJ6DED2H0	0380782758	959445752	Sarah on Her Own (American Dreams)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I wish I could give it more stars...	Sarah reluctantly travels to Virginia from England with the aunt she has lived with ever since she lost her parents. The journey is long and hard, but the hardship is multiplied when Sarah loses her aunt and finds herself alone in a new world.<BR>Sarah works along side the other colonists, but, instead of working to make a new life, she works to earn enough for passage back to her old one. <br />As Sarah grows from child to woman, the hunger, death, never ending work, and other challenges that accompany settling a new land bind her to the people around her and forge friendships that make Sarah doubt her determination to leave. And, in a twist of fate, she finds herself losing her heart to a man who loves the land and is just as determined to never leave. Sarah may have finally found the place that she truly belongs, but, when tragedy strikes, will she stand by those who have come to love her or will she finally decide to flee?<br />This is my absolute favorite book of all time! It is romantic, tragic, adventurous, and ends exactly as it should. If you can find this book, do yourself a huge favor and get it a.s.a.p. If you're like me, you'll read it over, and over, and over again.	2002-11-23
US	35109488	R3HX1G0GJW6LD1	0441328091	178447398	The Hero and the Crown	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The adventures of a Lady Dragonslayer	Aerin is the often despised daughter of a well-loved king. Rumors and speculations have followed her all her life. The people say that her mother was a witch who enchanted the king in order to marry him and place a child of her own on the throne. They also say that the lady died as soon as she learned that she had born a girl.<br />The rumors are the least of Aerin's problems. She struggles to be ladylike and make a place for herself in the court. But it is not in her nature to be a dutiful and idle court decoration. Instead, she turns to swordplay, riding, and herbal experiments and finds her true talent...for dragonslaying.<br />There's so much more to the story than that, but I don't want to completely ruin the book for you. If you are a Robin McKinley fan, give this book a try. It is romantic and adventuresome and I doubt that you will be disapointed.	2002-11-23
US	35109488	R1ZY8CKG6JWMVV	0441068804	887280747	The Blue Sword	Books	5	78	80	N	N	One of the best fantasy books I've ever encountered	At first Harry Crewe is not so different than a number of heroines you've probably met in your reading adventures. She's an orphan who must make a new life in a new place. This is difficult for a girl who has never really seemed to fit in anywhere. She longs constantly for something she can't quite name. All that sounds typical, right?<br />Well, it's what happens next that will make this a book you won't soon forget...and it's nothing even close to typical. <br />Almost by accident, Harry catches the eye of Corlath, King of the Hillfolk, who cannot seem to forget the woman. He returns for her and carries her off across the desert. Harry finds the culture strangely second nature and herself connecting with the King as no one else appears able to. Harry is surprised when the King begins having her trained as a warrior, and downright shocked when she becomes one of the best warriors in her new country's history. As war looms on the horizon and Harry finds herself falling in love with her King, she risks his wrath and her life on a daring mission she was forbidden to undertake. And all that is only a scratch on the surface of a truly engaging fantasy novel that kept me on the edge of my seat from start to finish.	2002-11-23
US	35109488	R1M8VVWJD79ZN4	0842350330	927575317	Phoebe Deane	Books	5	56	57	N	N	One of Grace Livingston Hill's best	Phoebe Deane is a beautiful orphan who is forced to live with her much older half-brother, who is rather indifferent to say the least, and his jealous wife, who enjoys putting Phoebe to work a little more than she should. Phoebe accepts her life, disappointing as it is, and makes the best of it. But a middle-aged widower who lives nearby with his passle of ill-behaved children is about to turn her life upside down with his near obsession with making her his wife. Naturally, he has her family's support and they go out of their way to throw them together...unknowingly putting Phoebe in grave danger. But all this is made bearable by an unforgetable meeting with a handsome young stranger in the woods who is willing to protect Phoebe where her family will not.<BR>A beautiful love story of faith, intrigue, and endurance that put me very much in mind of Cinderella. Anyone who likes Grace Livingston Hill's books should check this out. It is definately one of her best works.	2002-11-22
US	35109488	R2GPMSWMNPWUQP	0800713621	343324838	Marcia Schuyler (Grace Livingston Hill #9)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A book you'll want to keep	Marcia has always lived in the shadow of her beautiful and outgoing sister. When Marcia's sister runs off only a little while before her wedding, Marcia finds herself comforting the jilted groom...and before she knows it finds herself his bride! But though Marcia finds herself falling in love with her new husband, David, he cannot seem to get over her sister. Marcia thinks that she can live with this until her sister finds her way back into their lives...and she wants David back.<BR>I would tell you more, but it has been awhile since I read this book and besides, I would not want to ruin it for anyone. But it's worth a look for anyone who likes historical christian romance and Grace Livingston Hill.	2002-11-22
US	35109488	R1E3QA83LJH7JA	1576738086	591050289	A Measure of Grace (Mail Order Bride Series #8)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I love this book...and here's why...	Though not my absolute favorite of Al and Joanna Lacy's books, this one was a very nice read. The entire Mail Order Bride series is worth a look to anyone who likes historical Christian romance. <BR>Anyway, the book is about a young woman, Diana, who lives in fear of an abusive father. She is willing to do almost anything to escape...even become a mail order bride. The man she secretly corresponds with is a selfish young man who places the ad because he is rebelling against his matchmaking parents. He gets his best friend,Knight, who is a writer at the local newspaper, to compose the ad. He later convinces Knight to answer his prospective bride's letters because he has a natural gift with words. Diana falls in love with the wonderful letters that she receives and eagerly journeys far from home to marry the man that has so touched her heart with his words. Knight has unwillingly fallen for Diana as well and dreads seeing her wed to his best friend. But when Diana arrives, her future husband is missing. As she joins the search for him, she is thrown into close proximity with Knight. As she falls for a man she can never have, she thinks that that is the worst possible thing that could ever happen, not knowing that her father has followed her and is determined to bring her home...no matter what.<BR>The plot was interesting and I liked the hero and heroine a good deal, but the number one reason I have to suggest this book is that it features some of my writing. I was the winner of The Mail Order Bride writing contest and the ad and letters written by Diana and Knight that are featured in the book are all by me. I am recognized on the copyright page, or whatever it's called. So, give it a try and if you happen to like my letters look for anything written by me in the future. I'm a bestseller wannabe like most of us out there.	2002-11-22
US	35109488	R3EIF56FADKTEO	0842354026	117933288	The Red Signal (Living Books Romance)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The best Grace Livingston Hill book ever	A young woman takes a job on an isolated farm. So what's the big deal about that? Well, it turns out that her employers are a bunch of German spys and our young heroine finds herself in a whole passle of trouble and more danger and excitement than anyone would ever wish for. She has to make a daring escape, before she can take refuge in the arms of the man who has promised to protect her. I'd tell you more, but I might ruin it. But if you like mystery, wild chase scenes, and romance, you might like to check out this book. The hero is everything a girl could ever dream of...	2002-11-22
US	35109488	RRNAW783UK8OM	0441002617	570030418	The Shape-Changer's Wife	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A Hauntingly Beautiful Story	The two things I love best about Sharon Shinn's books are her character development and her unique plots. And this book is no exception.<BR>A young magician-in-training, Aubrey, journeys to a remote manor to apprentice himself to the greatest shape changer ever, on the recommendation of his last teacher. Aubrey finds his new home strange and things about the other inhabitants downright alarming. His new teacher seems to taunt him with knowledge instead of imparting it and is often gone on mysterious missions that he refuses to speak of. The servants seem to hate their master, but refuse to leave him. Those who live in the nearby village are terrified of, not only the shape changer, but his entire household as well. And as for Lilith, the shape changers wife, she seems to feel nothing at all.<BR>Aubrey finds himself strangely bound to each one, but especially Lilith. As Aubrey begins to learn more than his teacher ever meant for him to, he also begins unraveling a startling mystery that will change the destinies of himself and all that surround him.<BR>The plot was intriguing, romantic, and often surprising. Fantasy fans won't want to miss it.	2002-11-16
US	35109488	R16YJV950CEYA1	044100928X	433447844	Summers at Castle Auburn	Books	5	2	2	N	N	More than a Fairy Tale	This is a wonderful book that can appeal to many different tastes.  It was a fairy tale, fantasy, romance, and mystery all rolled into one. I really loved watching the main character, Corie, grow from a child to a woman. Her struggles and feelings were not so very different from what any other girl would experience on the road to womanhood. <BR>    Corie is not royalty, but she's no commoner either. She is stuck somewhere between the two as the illegiatimate child of a nobleman. Her father's dying wish was for his daughter to claim her place in the world. Thus her uncle has arranged for her to spend her summers at the castle with her half-sister. The rest of the time, she lives with her grandmother in a quiet village and trains to become a healer. <BR>    Corie finds \\"both\\" her lives becoming complicated as her grandmother begins training an additional girl and political tensions begin surfacing at court. As Corie begins to see both of her homes in new lights, she questions just where exactly she belongs and who she really is. She also questions the justice of the world around her as she watches the plight of the Aliora, humanlike fey creatures that the nobility use as slaves, and sees the man of her dreams engaged to her sister...and appearing to have feet of clay...to say the very least.<BR>    Corie's story is romantic, realistic, and ends with a delightful twist, just as it should. I highly recommend it!	2002-11-14
US	35109488	R3FABGGZ6OP5H	0821758527	683856078	Three For Brighton (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Merry mix ups threaten true love	When Constance and Felicity find that their father's death has left them without so much as a penny, they are forced to ask their cousin, Regina, for help. She used to live with them, as something of a poor relation, but now, thanks to her job as a companion, she has the only money between the three. <BR>  The three strike out for Brighton, Regina searching for her long lost father and the sisters hoping to find a good match for Constance. Regina disguises herself as an elderly widow, to avoid scandal and Felicity disguises herself as a preteen girl to save Regina the expense of presenting two young ladies...without the raised eyebrows.<BR>  Everything is going well until a handsome lord becomes intrigued with the mysterious \\"widow\\" and follows her...uncovering the fact that she is a young beauty. He confronts her, but keeps her secret to himself...and thus a secret romance begins. But the lord does not pursue Regina as he would wish to because he mistakenly assumes the man she is searching for is her husband.<BR>  Meanwhile Constance falls head over heels for a dashing, but penniless military man and Felicity meets the man of her dreams, who thinks that she is only a child and overlooks her in his pursuit of her beautiful sister.<BR>  It is a funny, yet romantic book and fans of Martha Kirkland won't want to miss it.	2002-11-13
US	35109488	R1AM01IL6N1SKX	0821773445	297029812	A Country Christmas (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A PAGETURNER	Reading this book was definately a good use of time as it has become one of my favorite Christmas romances. The characters were almost always realistic while remaining unlike anyone you have ever met. Definately untraditional and their own people.<BR>   The book takes place in the oh so traditional and strict early American Vermont, where a young woman who never quite fit in yearns for something new and different and even a little wild in her life. She expresses herself through art that none of her family can understand or appreciate because she draws emotions instead of pictures.<BR>   Her life gets the adventure and romance in it that she did not quite realize she desperately wanted when her brother brings home an older friend from college. He is mysterious and handsome, but far too rich and worldly for a country girl like herself. She is determined not to like him, but, after a late night skating lesson, some scandalous kisses, and her first dance, she finds him far too good to resist.<BR>   But that's only the beginning of the story. A broken heart, parental disapproval, and a disaster of an engagement to the wrong person stands between this couple and their wedding day...	2002-10-13
US	35109488	R351SBTNNLQLW6	0451458400	680062402	Once upon a Winter's Night	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A DELIGHTFUL FIND FOR FAIRY TALE LOVERS	A poor crofter is frightened of the enormous bear that finds its way to his door, but what frightens him more is the bear's mission...to take his favorite daughter to fairyland to marry an enchanted prince. The fortune the prince offers in exchange for Camille's hand proves too much temptation for the struggling family and Camille finds herself sacrificed to an unknown fate for the betterment of the rest of her family. A journey through beautiful and dangerous lands with the bear she feels strangely connected to brings her to the door of an amazing palace and into the arms of the man of her dreams. But the wonderful Prince Alan hides a dark secret that will eventually rip him from Camille's life...and plummet her into a quest through the wild lands of fairy.<BR> Robbers, dragons, giants, and trolls cannot keep her from Alan's side, but there is one thing that may...a woman scorned.<BR> An unconventional fairy tale that proved to be my favorite summer read. Romantic, passionate, magical, and full of adventure, anyone who liked the classic fairy tale, East of the Sun, West of the Moon, will fall head over heels for this book.	2002-09-15
US	35109488	RZPE4AO7JTJWJ	0821745158	309719912	AN Easter Disguise (A Zebra Holiday Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	AN UTTERLY CHARMING REGENCY	Harriet Haversham is the plain eldest daughter of a country vicar. At twenty-four, she is quite on the shelf. That has never troubled her a great deal...until now...<br />When Harriet meets the handsome Lord Weston in the forest, she realizes that he is far out of her reach, but she cannot quite forget him. She finds herself in the suds when Lord Weston invites her parents to a dinner party. Her mother and father have secretly gone after their middle daughter who has eloped with one of Lord Weston's grooms. If Lord Weston discovers the truth, he may dismiss Harry's father like he did the last vicar...for unseemly behavior. Harry's youngest sister, Augusta, convinces Harry that they must attend the dinner party to avoid suspician. But they cannot attend unescorted, so Augusta talks Harry into dressing up like their father. <br />The result is a hilarious dinner party that caused me to laugh out loud and a tangle of deceit that may cause Harry to lose the man of her dreams to a beautiful rival. It is very funny and romantic and the heroine is endearing and easy to relate to. Try it! You just might love it as much as I do.	2002-09-05
US	35109488	R3BHIP7NUZ0HP0	0821745158	309719912	AN Easter Disguise (A Zebra Holiday Regency Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	AN UTTERLY CHARMING REGENCY	THIS BOOK WAS ONE OF THE FUNNIEST AND MOST ROMANTIC REGENCIES I HAVE EVER READ. IT IS DEFINATELY A REREAD. I WOULD RECOMMEND IT TO ANY REGENCY ROMANCE FAN.	2002-09-05
US	35109488	R1FDDSJIVMN7HF	0821772902	23821080	Miss Whiting And the Seven Wards (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A FAIRY TALE FIND OF A SUMMER READ	The innocent Sarah Whiting finds herself in a web of intrigue after she returns home from school to an indifferent stepmother who suddeny has a change of heart when Sarah becomes a heiress. Sarah later goes into hiding after a servant in her home apparently tries to kill her. Posing as the mother of the seven orphans who rescued her in order to save them from eviction, Sarah meets Sir Evan. As she falls for him, her deception begins to haunt her. But Sir Evan has secrets of his own...	2002-09-05
