US	35140789	R2X6VP2NEIDRUH	1931160333	770607115	Let's Shut Out the World	Books	5	12	12	N	N	WOW!  What a World!	Kevin Bentley grew up in El Paso Texas during the late sixties and early seventies. In1977 he fled his dysfunctional family to make a life for himself in the gay Mecca of San Francisco. Bentley has been HIV positive since 1982, but remains asymptomatic due to two defective or variant genes that appear to delay the progression of HIV. Over the years he's experimented with drugs, thugs and straight boys, had more sex than any five people might expect, lost two lovers to AIDS, found marginal success in the literary world, and discovered martial bliss with his HIV negative partner of eight years, Paul.<br /><br />LET'S SHUT OUT THE WORLD is a series of striking vignettes that create a beautifully textured portrait of Bentley's life so far. Through it all the author has remained skeptically optimistic, and steadfastly determined to see where life will lead him. His sense of humor, even in the face of unforgiving tragedy, remains sharp and wildly entertaining, while his grasp of life's ironies will keep his readers riveted to every page. Clearly, Bentley has seen it all, and lived to tell the tale. His is a story that many of us in our late forties and early fifties can relate to. We are survivors and this book is a strong testament to survival. Bentley's memoir is a no-holds-barred look back at gay life over the last thirty years, and provides the next generation of gay explorers with an engrossing history of hedonistic life after Stonewall.<br /><br />I too am from El Paso, and I knew Kevin Bentley quite well back in the early seventies. In fact, I'd be willing to bet the farm that I am the character known as Art Zelinsky, briefly mentioned in the chapter titled, \\"Servo-Robots in Bondage.\\" I have to admit, Bentley savagely captures the essence of the screaming little queen I was at the time. I lost touch with Kevin after he moved to San Francisco, but after completing his fascinating book, I feel as if I've re-discovered an old and long-lost friend. If you read one book this year, let it be Kevin Bentley's, LET'S SHUT OUT THE WORLD. It is most definitely a five (*****) star experience.book this year, let it be Kevin Bentley's, LET'S SHUT OUT THE WORLD. It is most definitely a five (*****) star experience.	2005-08-11
US	35140789	R1Z0OG4R8H90I9	0060542535	835099649	Lives of the Circus Animals: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Rare Literary Entertainment	Admittedly, I was reluctant to give this book a shot. I read, and thoroughly detested, Bram's IN MEMORY OF ANGEL CLAIRE, and I wasn't going to read this offering. I'm extremely glad I reconsidered my decision. Bram's examination of ten days in the lives of an interconnected group of New York \\"theatre people\\" was not only insightful it was a delightful, life-affirming reading experience.<br /><br />The characters met in this book are far from perfect. In fact, they tend to be self-centered and shallow. But they're extremely human, and it's hard not to like them. There is Caleb, a playwright dealing with the failure of his second play after the huge success of his first. The self pity he wallows in makes him, perhaps, the most unsympathetic character in the book.<br /><br />Along the way we're introduced to Caleb's sister Jessie, an assistant to Broadway star Henry Lewse, and his mother, Molly, a slightly neurotic widow. We also get to know the afore-mentioned Lewse, Toby, a struggling actor and Caleb's discarded boyfriend, Frank an ex-actor in love with Jessie, and Kenneth Prager, a critic for the prestigious New York Times whose reviews have enhanced Lewse's career while helping to destroy Caleb's. All are on a collision course with one another that will have its ultimate denouement at Caleb's self-thrown 41st birthday bash.<br /><br />I'm not going to beat around the bush. I absolutely adored LIVES OF THE CIRCUS ANIMALS. Bram provides his reader with a deep yet totally entertaining read. This novel is a delightful comedy of errors that never gets bogged down in the psychological exploration of its characters, a feat not easily accomplished in gay literature. BRAVO! Mr. Bram. I give this extremely literary performance five (*****) well deserved stars.	2005-01-22
US	35140789	R3VF1QL5XANFXN	188259309X	591076367	Out At The Old Ball Game: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Shallow but Entertaining	To start the New Year I decided to attack my to-read pile from the bottom instead of the top. I selected OUT AT THE OLD BALL GAME by Bernie Bookbinder, published in 1995. While I had problems with the content of the novel, I found it very well written, and a great example of work that mixes point of view (POV) in a willy-nilly manner and still manages to pull-off an entertaining and cohesive read.<br /><br />Most fiction tends to keep POV limited to one character at any given time, say by chapter or space-break. This fast paced novel prefers to mix and match, taking the reader from the mind of one character right into another in a matter of a sentence or two. Instead of being confusing and clunky, as this method of story-telling quite often is, OUT AT THE OLD BALL GAME rolls along smoothly and swiftly like a luxury sports-car, firing on all pistons.<br /><br />The New York Gents are the laughing stock of baseball's National League. They're consistently at the bottom of their division, their game attendance is appalling, and they've even lost their television coverage. As the book begins, the team's one star player, Dick (Rootie) Toote holds a press conference to announce his homosexuality. Scrappy Schwrtznbrgr, the sleazy manager-owner of the Gents is appalled by the news. He planned to sell the team and retire to Florida, but with Toote's revelation he'll be lucky if he can give the team away.<br /><br />Scrappy comes up with a plan after Toote, trying to explain his situation, inadvertently blurts out the names of several other closeted gay players in the league. Scrappy leaks the explosive information to the press, and once the bomb detonates, manages to buy each player's contract, thus assembling the first all gay team in major league history. The outcry from sports writers and team owners is universally vicious. Obnoxious Yankee's owner, Donald Bigg, even attempts, unsuccessfully, to have the Gents banned from baseball. However, the team's dominating performances on the field, as well as their dignified behavior off the field, eventually win over most of the public.<br /><br />The novel is at its best when concentrating on the lives of the individual players, giving the reader insight into the nerve shattering consequences of public outing, as well as helping to destroy stereotypes concerning gay athletes. Unfortunately, there is precious little of this insight to be found. OUT AT THE OLD BALL GAME is, first and foremost, a baseball story, spending the majority of its pages exploring the effects the new team has on the established straight sporting community that surrounds it, and I, for one, found that emotionally disappointing.rformances on the field, as well as their dignified behavior off the field, eventually win over most of the public. <br /> <br />The novel is at its best when concentrating on the lives of the individual players, giving the reader insight into the nerve shattering consequences of public outing, as well as helping to destroy stereotypes concerning gay athletes. Unfortunately, there is precious little of this insight to be found. OUT AT THE OLD BALL GAME is, first and foremost, a baseball story, spending the majority of its pages exploring the effects the new team has on the established straight sporting community that surrounds it, and I, for one, found that emotionally disappointing.	2005-01-11
US	35140789	R1HEA0ZQKVRJDT	0758207875	643515670	I'm Your Man	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Wonderful Joyride of a Novel	I'M YOUR MAN is the third book published by that talented foursome known as Timothy James Beck. The three novels detail the lives of several friends, most of whom live in New York City, but are originally from Eau Claire Wisconsin. IT HAD TO BE YOU concentrates on the budding relationship between Daniel, a recently retired female impersonator, and Blaine, an up and coming advertising executive. HE'S THE ONE focuses on Adam, a hunky computer wiz, and Jeremy, a struggling actor and a former lover of Daniel's. In I'M YOUR MAN, Daniel, and Blaine, are once again the primary protagonists.<br /><br />The story, this time around, is told from Blaine's point of view. Blaine and Daniel have broken up and the split was anything but amicable. Each said horrible things to the other, and both are terribly bitter. Of course they still love each other madly, so moving on for both is proving extremely difficult. Daniel, currently the most hated/loved villain on daytime's popular Secret Splendor, is filming a TV movie in Hollywood, while Blaine continues on in New York. Blaine is a mass of battling emotions. He really misses his ex-boyfriend, but he remains angry over a deception he feels Daniel perpetrated on him. He wants desperately to get on with his life but his feelings for Daniel just won't go away. When a mutual lesbian friend, Gretchen, suggests Blaine have a child with her, Blaine struggles with his decision. He and Daniel wanted to raise children one day and he feels guilty about going ahead with the plan on his own.<br /><br />With humor and compassion, I'M YOUR MAN, deals with many issues facing the 21st century gay community. Family relationships, gay families, child rearing, transgender acceptance, public outing, and personal honesty and forgiveness are all tackled with equal sincerity. While slightly more idealistic in nature, I found I'M YOUR MAN to be reminiscent of the best of William J Mann, a personal favorite. There is an underlying honesty here that is rare in popular gay fiction.<br /><br />In each subsequent installment the characters have evolved and grown, as have the writing chops of the authors. I'M YOUR MAN maintains the romantic warm tone of its predecessors, but it's definitely a deeper and more involving read. I heartily recommend all of Timothy James Beck's novels, but especially this emotionally fulfilling joyride.e in popular gay fiction. <br /> <br />In each subsequent installment the characters have evolved and grown, as have the writing chops of the authors. I'M YOUR MAN maintains the romantic warm tone of its predecessors, but it's definitely a deeper and more involving read. I heartily recommend all of Timothy James Beck's novels, but especially this emotionally fulfilling joyride.	2004-12-18
US	35140789	R1P55KJB1RARSV	1560234598	20174810	Huddle	Books	5	5	6	N	N	JOCKS ON OUR TEAM	HUDDLE is more a series of interlocking vignettes than a traditional novel.  Each chapter focuses on different members of the L.A. Quake's, a gay squad playing in the Los Angeles Flag Football League. Flag football is serious business to these gay men, and the progression of the playing season accommodates the individual stories. This is most definitely an ensemble piece.<br /><br />Among the protagonists are Al and Curt, boyfriends living an open relationship. What a surprise for each when they discover that if they're going to fool around, they'd just as soon do it with each other. Also featured are Ed and Bill. These are two guys so afraid of messing up a wonderful four year friendship, that each is afraid to tell the other how he really feels for fear of ruining what they've already established. And then there is, Dave, a sweet kid new to the team and working hard to prove he's got what it takes. Dave is a guy trying to fit into his world, and looking for happiness but having a tough time finding it.<br /><br />This is a story of gay jocks, living different lives but coming together once a week, bonding with each other playing flag football. They will win some and they will lose some, but they'll do it together.<br /><br />I really got a kick out of this butch book. Every male character is a card carrying member of the gay letterman's club. These are gay men, confidant in their sexuality and not afraid to show it. They're proud to be an openly gay team and they're not about to take any crap about it. They don't always make the right decisions, on or off the field, but they try. I liked these guys, flaws and all. I think you will too.	2004-11-27
US	35140789	R23ETHP3LZWJOW	0595329586	480867563	Masked Destiny	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A SPIRITED INSTALLMENT OF THE YOUTH CHRONICLES	MASKED DESTINY is Mark Roeder's latest offering in his Gay Youth Chronicles. The series of books covers a time span of over twenty years. The Chronicles are comprised of eleven (so far) novels with interconnecting story lines and characters. MASKED DESTINY is the third book in a thread dealing with gay teen murders and the supernatural.<br /><br />As with Roeder's other novels, MASKED DESTINY is told in the voices of its primary characters, in this case, Skye and Oliver. These are two extremely different teens both working in the local (Verona Indiana) farm supply store. It is 1997 and the school year has just begun.<br /><br />Skye is a sixteen year old, pumped-up, football playing jock, determined to establish himself as the school Alpha-male. His passions are his own incredible body and his Abercrombie & Fitch wardrobe. Skye enjoys checking out the other athletes in the locker room but he's convinced himself it's merely to compare his muscular development against theirs. He's in denial and it never occurs to him that he's gay. Skye doesn't realize it, but he's destined for great things. However, it will take the help of a mesmerizing stranger to guide him down the right path.<br /><br />Oliver is a pudgy shy fourteen year old struggling to come to terms with his homosexuality. He's introverted and suffers from low self esteem. Oliver tries to overcome his insecurity and self-loathing by joining the local gay youth group. Things begin to turn around for Oliver, and he finds himself having to choose between, Clay, the boy of his dreams and, Ken, a cute sixteen year aggressively pursuing him. Ken is charming and romantic, but is he really who he claims to be?<br /><br />Through the course of this novel Skye and Oliver grow as individuals and, even though they seem to have nothing in common, become good friends. But things aren't always as they seem in Verona. Mysterious forces and long forgotten secrets could spell disaster for our protagonists. A world of spirits and angels exists in this community and it's up to Skye and Oliver to try and make sense of the situation.<br /><br />This is the first of Roeder's novels I've read that involves this particular sub-plot.  And while the haunted themes of this novel make for a slightly different reading experience from previous Chronicle installments, the overall result is familiar. Once again, Roeder has valuable lessons to teach his teenage audience, the most important being: respect and like yourself. I might mention that this particular lesson isn't lost on Roeder's more mature readers.<br /><br />I thoroughly enjoyed MASKED DESTINY and I intend to go back and read the other two novels dealing with supernatural themes: SOMEONE IS KILLING THE GAY BOYS OF VERONA and KEEPER OF SECRETS. Roeder does a wonderful job of making the boys here believable. In fact, I think Skye is possibly Roeder's finest creation. He's vain yet noble, conceited yet fair-minded, He's far from perfect but he has a kind and dependable heart. He is a fleshed out hero for all gay boys, of any age, to look up to.spirits and angels exists in this community and it's up to Skye and Oliver to try and make sense of the situation. <br /> <br />This is the first of Roeder's novels I've read that involves this particular sub-plot.  And while the haunted themes of this novel make for a slightly different reading experience from previous Chronicle installments, the overall result is familiar. Once again, Roeder has valuable lessons to teach his teenage audience, the most important being: respect and like yourself. I might mention that this particular lesson isn't lost on Roeder's more mature readers. <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed MASKED DESTINY and I intend to go back and read the other two novels dealing with supernatural themes: SOMEONE IS KILLING THE GAY BOYS OF VERONA and KEEPER OF SECRETS. Roeder does a wonderful job of making the boys here believable. In fact, I think Skye is possibly Roeder's finest creation. He's vain yet noble, conceited yet fair-minded, He's far from perfect but he has a kind and dependable heart. He is a fleshed out hero for all gay boys, of any age, to look up to.	2004-11-25
US	35140789	R2FT6MSQBCPMAM	0533115590	101998978	Outside the Badge	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A  Disurbingly  Powerful Experience	OUTSIDE THE BADGE by Mitchell Grobeson is easily the most disturbing book I've ever completed, also one of the most riveting. Grobeson is the first openly gay police officer in the history of the Los Angeles Police Department and the first police officer in the nation to successfully sue for sexual orientation discrimination, resulting in a landmark 1993 settlement ordering the LAPD to immediately halt its discriminatory practices. While OUTSIDE THE BADGE is a work of fiction, it reflects many elements of Grobeson's tortured law enforcement career.<br /><br />Published in 1999, OUTSIDE THE BADGE tells the story of proud and honest L.A police officer, Stephen Cainen. He is constantly harassed by his fellow patrolmen and supervisors because they believe him to be gay. He is gay, but has never admitted the fact to anyone and the behavior of the other policemen is the result of baseless rumor. Cainen is repeatedly endangered by the refusal of his fellow officers to back him up in life-threatening situations.<br /><br />Add to this a serial killer on the loose, a man who considers Charles Manson to be his spiritual father, a man hell-bent on ridding the streets of Hollywood of all the blonde AIDS spreading male prostitutes. The killer is a psychotically repressed homosexual and every time he kills a young victim he has an orgasm. He even tape records the murders so he can enjoy them again later.<br /><br />In order to flush out the killer, Cainen is blackmailed by his superiors into accepting an extremely dangerous under-cover operation. Refusing to allow the \\"God fearing\\" brass to pressure him into resigning, Cainen hits the streets in search of the killer, a search that could leave him dead. His comrades won't help him and he has precious few allies.<br /><br />This was not an easy book to read. The authentic descriptions of a police force full of over grown bullies, determined to keep things as they are, were really frightening. I've lived in L.A. and Grobeson's depictions are right on the money. Also the images of the serial killer, and his methods, made for an exceptionally uneasy read. However, Grobeson made me care so much about this mistreated but uncomplaining gay cop, I simply could not put the book down. Stephen Cainen is one of the most admirably developed protagonists to ever cross the pages of gay fiction. He is a hero for all gay people, and Grobeson has brilliantly portrayed his battle for self-respect and dignity in this book. This is a dark upsetting novel, but I'm very glad I read it.eson's depictions are right on the money. Also the images of the serial killer, and his methods, made for an exceptionally uneasy read. However, Grobeson made me care so much about this mistreated but uncomplaining gay cop, I simply could not put the book down. Stephen Cainen is one of the most admirably developed protagonists to ever cross the pages of gay fiction. He is a hero for all gay people, and Grobeson has brilliantly portrayed his battle for self-respect and dignity in this book. This is a dark upsetting novel, but I'm very glad I read it.	2004-11-16
US	35140789	R2I3019HXTBQOL	044669133X	223439811	Shameless	Books	5	1	4	N	N	HUMOROUS BUT DEFINATELY NOT GLAMOROUS	I have recently read SHAMELESS by Paul Burston. I think the book acurately documents the protagonist's, (Martin) journey into the wild and wickedly hedonistic world of club/drug culture, concluding with him managing to see the futility of the scene after being falsely lured in by the initial euphoria of the drugs. Some may accuse this book of glamorizing club-drug use, but I would have to disagree. Maybe it's just me, but I don't find someone's mistaking toenail shavings for coke and snorting it very glamorous, although I have to admit the author related the incident most humorously. I've been around more than enough to have known my fair share of characters like the ones in this book, and yes they were backstabbers and liars and cheats but they knew how to party and make you feel welcome. I know the special-tribe like lure of this scene quite well. I found the book honest and real, and I enjoyed how the author used humor to skewer, not glamorize, the entire scene.	2004-08-31
US	35140789	R2DPOSHZO3R02Z	1555838383	361105897	Someone You Know: A Novel	Books	3	7	9	N	N	FASCINATING BUT FLAWED	I'm not going to beat around the bush. SOMEONE YOU KNOW is one sick puppy of a book, so I HATE admitting I was drawn into it like a moth to a flame. I have no one to blame but myself for the third degree burns this depraved murder mystery inflicted on my psyche. I knew early on what I was getting myself into, but Zebrun's expert use of minimalist intrigue made it impossible for me to stop reading. Once I realized I was on a road trip to hell, the vehicle was going to fast to jump off.<br />Daniel Caruzo is a newspaper columnist in Providence R.I., with a wife and teenage daughter. He has a little secret. He's gay and has been having anonymous sex with pick-ups for quite some time. As the novel begins Dan is in Seattle attending a newspaper conference. It's his last night in town and he finds himself cruising, Slaughter, a local leather bar. He picks up, Stephen Hart, a hunky firefighter and goes home with him. When he wakes in the morning the fireman is gone but he finds a note thanking him for the beautiful time. Disappointed to find himself alone, Dan decides to take a shower and discovers a bottle of AZT in the bathroom medicine cabinet. He realizes Stephen may have been lying when he told him he was HIV negative.<br />Dan, feeling guilty and upset, returns to his hotel to collect his belongings and head to the airport. On a lay-over at O'Hare in Chicago, Dan, gets slightly drunk in the bar and follows a fellow patron into the restroom. Upon leaving the stall, he kicks something left on the bathroom floor, discovering it to be the bottle of AZT rubber banded with a Bart Simpson chess piece, from a set he noticed the night before at Stephen's. Something is very wrong.<br />Once home, Dan finds out that Stephen's been murdered, and if that isn't unsettling enough, significant proof of the murder arrives on his porch the next day, packed and shipped in ice. Dan tries to remain calm and figure it all out, but as he slips deeper into a panic-stricken state, he has more clandestine sex, resulting in more deaths. It isn't long before Dan realizes he is the focus of an obsessed serial killer, who seems to know his every move.<br />Zebrun tells his story in tight, fascinating detail. His characters are realistically portrayed and his situations, chillingly believable. Unfortunately, as the novel progresses, it becomes clear Dan is a sex-addicted coward, frightened yet erotically charged by the nightmare he finds himself living. He's endangered all those around him and still he cruises every man he sees. As the situation gets worse his compulsions become more acute.  He keeps promising himself that he'll come clean with his family and trusted friends, but jumps at every opportunity to avoid it. I'm afraid there is nothing noble about him and it damages the stories credibility. It's difficult for the reader not to think he deserves the mess he's in.<br />Also, I was bothered by the lack of difficulty in figuring out who the serial killer was. The title alone offers way too obvious a clue. I kept hoping for a last minute surprise that would prove my suspicions wrong, but it never came, and what could have been an extremely involving thriller slid into little more than a slasher-story, well written but predictable. I appreciate Zebrun's writing abilities in, SOMEONE YOU KNOW, but I can't say I enjoyed the book much. Of course, I'm sure there's an audience out there for gruesome, sadistic material, and this masterfully conveyed, dark offering should make that audience ecstatic.re clandestine sex, resulting in more deaths. It isn't long before Dan realizes he is the focus of an obsessed serial killer, who seems to know his every move.  <br />Zebrun tells his story in tight, fascinating detail. His characters are realistically portrayed and his situations, chillingly believable. Unfortunately, as the novel progresses, it becomes clear Dan is a sex-addicted coward, frightened yet erotically charged by the nightmare he finds himself living. He's endangered all those around him and still he cruises every man he sees. As the situation gets worse his compulsions become more acute.  He keeps promising himself that he'll come clean with his family and trusted friends, but jumps at every opportunity to avoid it. I'm afraid there is nothing noble about him and it damages the stories credibility. It's difficult for the reader not to think he deserves the mess he's in.  <br />Also, I was bothered by the lack of difficulty in figuring out who the serial killer was. The title alone offers way too obvious a clue. I kept hoping for a last minute surprise that would prove my suspicions wrong, but it never came, and what could have been an extremely involving thriller slid into little more than a slasher-story, well written but predictable. I appreciate Zebrun's writing abilities in, SOMEONE YOU KNOW, but I can't say I enjoyed the book much. Of course, I'm sure there's an audience out there for gruesome, sadistic material, and this masterfully conveyed, dark offering should make that audience ecstatic.	2004-06-29
US	35140789	R96Z9UGE2ZTVC	1411603974	202919490	Vacuum-Packed	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A GRITTY, FASCINATING, TRAIN WRECK OF A BOOK	Whew! VACUUM PACKED is one hell of a disturbing read, and that works both for and against the book. Newbold?s interlocking stories of two gay, London residents, in their early twenties, struggling through the stark and ugly final years of the twentieth century, are on one hand morbidly captivating, while on the other, horrendously depressing. If you?re looking for a light entertaining distraction, then, by all means, pass on this novel, but if you are fascinated by the seamy under-belly of a drug-addled, sex-obsessed gay sub-culture, where chemically induced satisfaction and indiscriminate sex are the behavior-patterns du jour, then this is most definitely a book for you.<br /><br />As our tale unfolds, Jamie and Craig have split-up. Jamie, self-absorbed and cynical, is enraged by Craig?s confession of his HIV positive status. When Craig needs him most, Jamie walks defiantly away, leaving Craig to ponder his uncertain future alone. For Jamie it is just one more let-down in a life full of disappointments.<br />Jamie yearns to be hip and magazine-cool but, try as he may he never really finds the formula for this kind of superficial, hedonistic success. While he is cute and buff, there is always someone hotter around to spoil his ego-trip. He can?t live up to the socio-economic standard he has set for himself. For Jamie, it is easier to get lost in a haze of drugs and alcohol than to face this bitter reality.<br />Craig is hurt and horribly disillusioned. He desires nothing more than to escape his suffocating existence while he still can. Craig wants to travel to the distant corners of the globe where he can forget his immediate problems. He too refuses to face the realities of his life. The last thing he wants to deal with is his HIV diagnosis and all of its ramifications. With the financial help of his supportive mother and step-father, Craig takes a leave-of-absence from his nursing job, and boards a plane for Bangkok.<br />Jamie, stuck in frigid London, loses his insignificant job in a trendy club, and, as a last resort, contacts a gay-porn director who has taken a fancy to him, and offered him some ?film work?. While he never, in his wildest dreams, imagined himself \\"doing it\\" on screen, the money does help to pay the rent and feed his drug and alcohol habit; a habit that allows him to emotionally distance himself from this questionable choice of occupation. A vicious circle if you will. Jamie also mooches-off his guilt-ridden and physically abused mother, both resenting and pitying her as he squeezes her heart and purse-strings for yet another wad of cash. Jamie is barreling full-throttle down a highway of self-destruction, and he knows it, but he is unable and unwilling to make an exit.<br />Meanwhile, Craig, intent on experiencing Thailand?s notorious gay life, takes up residence in the Malaysia Hotel, a well-known establishment catering to the European and American sex-tourist trade. Craig quickly immerses himself in the red-light, anything-for-a-price culture of the teaming tropical city. Eye-candy is everywhere, and every piece can be bought. Craig has landed smack dab in the middle of a crude and lust-filled sweet-shop, and while he initially gorges himself, it isn?t long before his conscience develops a tummy ache.<br /><br />This is a well written, gut-wrenching novel. The descriptive details are remarkable, and the situations, uncomfortably riveting, but the overall effect is gloomy and demoralizing, leaving a sour taste on the tongue. There is nothing to be hopeful for in Jamie?s world, except for an evening?s sexual possibilities, and a line of blow. What little light shines on Craig?s existence is half-hearted at best. The text doesn?t vary from this incredibly depressing format. The reader is never allowed to forget that life for these two holds very little promise. This inordinately bleak attitude, unfortunately, causes one to lose all empathy for the two main characters, and forces one to stay detached, rather than getting emotionally involved; as if watching a train wreck from a safe distance. It is hard to pull your eyes away from the ensuing tragedy, yet you are disgusted and saddened by what you see. This is gritty, thought-provoking stuff for those who have the stomach for it.getting emotionally involved; as if watching a train wreck from a safe distance. It is hard to pull your eyes away from the ensuing tragedy, yet you are disgusted and saddened by what you see. This is gritty, thought-provoking stuff for those who have the stomach for it.	2004-06-24
US	35140789	R1A1SPQ4BR3JJK	0758206291	446518411	Male Model	Books	5	24	28	N	N	A  GREAT MODEL FOR ALL SUMMER READS	Cameron \\"Cam\\" Fuller, strikingly handsome, high profile designer and C.E.O. for Cameron Fuller USA, a fashion dynasty on a par with Ralph Lauren, and Blake Jackson, an equally gorgeous hunk, and member of the artistic design team at Cam's Beverly Hills mega-store are the heroes of Dave Benbow's delicious new novel, MALE MODEL. Cam literally sees Blake in a window (of the mega-store) and has to have him. They meet, and the attraction is mutual and immediate. Unfortunately, there are two, not-so-little, problems to overcome; Suzette, a high maintainance shrew who just happens to be Cam's wife of twenty five years, and her devious, blue-blood father, Silas Cabbott, to whom Cam is financially indebted.<br />Blake and Cam attempt to keep their relationship discreet. They are, after all, established, successful, career oriented men, not a couple of twenty-something bar twinks, but when Cam chooses Blake to be the spokes-model for `PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY,' his company's new men's fragrance, it doesn't take long for their secret to be discovered, and all hell breaks loose.<br />As he did with his previous effort DAYTIME DRAMA, Benbow, serves up an incredibly tasty dish of a novel full of clever twists, exotic locals, and passionate romance. This is the realm of super-wealth and haute couture, where the beautiful people, and those who prey upon them, flock. Here, an opportunistic underling backstabbing his way to job security seems the norm, and blackmail is just another business option. Trust-worthy friends are few and far between and everyone has a hidden agenda, some more deadly than others. How can true love possibly survive in this glamorous but cutthroat environment?<br />John Q (Queer) Public enjoys reading about this fast-lane, designer-living world, especially when the author knows what he's talking about. Benbow's expertise in high-end, fashion retail serves him extremely well in this novel. He delivers professionally developed, charismatic characters involved in a well thought out, beautifully detailed plot. The result is pure enjoyment from cover to cover.<br />I read fiction to be entertained, and that's the bottom line. This tale of Cameron's and Blake's budding relationship, and the treachery that surrounds it, certainly satisfied that bottom line. MALE MODEL made me want to grin like the Cheshire cat when all went well for the heroes, and scream like a banshee when the dastardly villains screwed with their lives. This novel, made me want to laugh, it made me want to cry, but most of all it made me want to run squeeze my partner, and tell him how much I love him, and it's been way too long since a novel has had that effect on me. I wish every book I read left me feeling this way...so does my partner!n a well thought out, beautifully detailed plot. The result is pure enjoyment from cover to cover.  <br />I read fiction to be entertained, and that's the bottom line. This tale of Cameron's and Blake's budding relationship, and the treachery that surrounds it, certainly satisfied that bottom line. MALE MODEL made me want to grin like the Cheshire cat when all went well for the heroes, and scream like a banshee when the dastardly villains screwed with their lives. This novel, made me want to laugh, it made me want to cry, but most of all it made me want to run squeeze my partner, and tell him how much I love him, and it's been way too long since a novel has had that effect on me. I wish every book I read left me feeling this way...so does my partner!	2004-06-21
US	35140789	R1IVID97GEJLD8	0758205449	145563149	Trust Fund Boys	Books	5	8	13	N	N	The Sun WILL Come Out  Tomorrow!	For those of you expecting a screwball, over-the-top repeat of Rob Byrnes' delicious, THE NIGHT WE MET be forewarned. TRUST FUND BOYS maintains Byrnes' wonderfully irreverent and slightly cynical narrative voice, so captivating in the first novel, but the story, this time around, is more \\"expose\\" than \\"madcap adventure.\\" It has its slap-stick moments, but the setting and tone are a great deal more personal, and not always pretty to look at. The end result, however, remains enormously satisfying.<br />Brett Revere, our hero and narrator, is a barely thirty, out-of-work actor, eking out a living as an office temp, and dreaming of that big break that will make him a star of the Broadway stage, but the dream is beginning to wear thin, as is his bank account. As our story begins Brett is auditioning for a back room, non-equity, gay spoof of the musical ANNIE, called ANDY, starring an obnoxious queen named Joey Takashimi. After a single rehearsal Brett walks out on the embarrassingly bad production certain of its quick demise. He accompanies a fellow actor from the show for a drink, and ends up at the Penthouse, a bar frequented by the upwardly mobile, i.e.: gay and filthy rich, and those who want to be carbon copies of them. On his first night at the club, Brett meets Jaime Brock, an attractive, if somewhat weather-worn, charmer and ends up loosing his heart faster than Cher can change costumes.<br />It doesn't take long for our two fellows to discover that they are both wanna-be's not be's, and a plan is hatched to charm their way into this elite circle for the purpose of career enhancement. Unfortunately for Brett, the denizens of this exclusive enclave are not the only ones Jamie is conning, and Brett's puppy-dog crush is making him an easy mark. Will Brett wake up to the insanity of the situation, or will he follow Jaime in this soul snatching buffoonery? Will he ever stop playing Oliver to Jaime's Artful Dodger? Byrnes allows the character of Brett to be uncompromisingly human, with all his greed and selfishness exposed. Brett is a nice guy, deep down, but can he remain one and still gain entrance to the snooty society he sees as his salvation. We don't always like Brett, but we understand him.<br />TRUST FUND BOYS takes-no-prisoners in its disdain for the petty social snobbery of the Hampton's elite, and the bottom feeders that surround them, but the book's near-total lack of sympathy for this world in no way diminishes the reader's fascination by it, kind of like watching the Menendez trial, you now-did those divine brothers really do that?<br />While the majority of the people we meet along this exclusive trip are arrogant bores, the author never lets us forget that real, non-discriminating, worth-knowing people are part of every element of society, if you just look for them. Byrnes has lessons to teach us this time around, and he wears those lessons on his narrative sleeve. I, for one, don't mind calling a spade a spade, and appreciate Byrnes' frank candor. I highly recommend this book.ingly human, with all his greed and selfishness exposed. Brett is a nice guy, deep down, but can he remain one and still gain entrance to the snooty society he sees as his salvation. We don't always like Brett, but we understand him.<br />TRUST FUND BOYS takes-no-prisoners in its disdain for the petty social snobbery of the Hampton's elite, and the bottom feeders that surround them, but the book's near-total lack of sympathy for this world in no way diminishes the reader's fascination by it, kind of like watching the Menendez trial, you now-did those divine brothers really do that? <br />While the majority of the people we meet along this exclusive trip are arrogant bores, the author never lets us forget that real, non-discriminating, worth-knowing people are part of every element of society, if you just look for them. Byrnes has lessons to teach us this time around, and he wears those lessons on his narrative sleeve. I, for one, don't mind calling a spade a spade, and appreciate Byrnes' frank candor. I highly recommend this book.	2004-06-08
US	35140789	R2F13ZFK878FLH	0060012218	103393582	Geography Club	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A COMING -OF-AGE NOVEL WITH REAL BITE!	Russell Middlebrook, a witty and remarkably frank high school sophomore is the narrator and protagonist of Brent Hartinger's, GEOGRAPHY CLUB. Russell's is a believably fresh and quirky voice, shining like a lighthouse beacon, in an ocean of gay coming out material. Quite possibly the most popular genre in \\"Gay Lit\\" today, the, \\"coming-of-age novel,\\" dominates the Queer shelves. Unfortunately these offerings tend to be overly romanticized and just plain sappy. GEOGRAPHY CLUB is anything but. No, this is a book with real teeth and a sharp bite. This novel has more than its fair share of reality checks, yet humor and hope are never sacrificed to the standard teenage cynicism of the stories tone.<br />Russell is gay and firmly embedded in the closet. He's not one of the popular kids, but he's not a social pariah either. Along with his friends Min and Gunnar, Russell manages to stay within the \\"borderland of respectability,\\" at Goodkind High School. Russell thinks he's the only gay person in school, so he only confesses his sexuality on the internet. One night he discovers another gay teen from his high school in a chat room and the two agree to meet. \\"GayTeen\\" turns out to be Kevin Land, a hunky jock and star of the baseball team. Russell is more than a little flabbergasted. After the initial shock wears off, the two boys agree to confide in one another about their mutual concerns. Russell, so excited he can barely contain himself, decides to risk all and tell his best friend Min about the rendezvous. Much to his surprise Min reveals her bisexual nature to him.<br />Before you know it, five gay teens (Min has a girlfriend and she's got a friend) are meeting for pizza and discovering that they are not alone, but how can they continue meeting without their secret being uncovered. They decide to form a school club so boring that no one will join, thus allowing them to meet on a twice weekly basis. The Geography Club is born. All goes swimmingly until a rumor about a gay teen sweeps the school, and the GC members start to get exceedingly nervous. Is the jig up for the closet club or will eyes be focused on Brian Bund, the schools number one outcast and overwhelming recipient of the worst kind of teasing teenagers are capable of?<br /><br />Through the voice of Russell, Hartinger provides his readers with an amazingly accurate picture of what gay high school life is like today. Russell talks directly to us as if we were right there with him, shooting the breeze in the school cafeteria. He is cocky, unsure, comical, frightened and sincere, all at the same time. We get excited with him when he talks about his budding romance with Kevin, and how he joins the baseball team to be near him, and we hurt for him when fate plays an awful joke and his life is temporarily shattered. This is a kid's world and we're told about it by a gay kid. Adults play next to no role here. The story is thought provoking and wonderfully entertaining, proving the incredible highs and lows of adolescence stay unchanged from generation to generation.<br />I can not end this review without returning once more to the character of Brian Bund. Everyone who ever attended an American high school remembers a Brian or two. Those horribly mistreated outsiders who bore their lot with quiet dignity. Hartinger obviously remembered as well. His respectful portrait of this incredibly noble individual stands amongst the finest in contemporary gay fiction. I am unquestionably impressed.en sweeps the school, and the GC members start to get exceedingly nervous. Is the jig up for the closet club or will eyes be focused on Brian Bund, the schools number one outcast and overwhelming recipient of the worst kind of teasing teenagers are capable of?<br /> <BR>Through the voice of Russell, Hartinger provides his readers with an amazingly accurate picture of what gay high school life is like today. Russell talks directly to us as if we were right there with him, shooting the breeze in the school cafeteria. He is cocky, unsure, comical, frightened and sincere, all at the same time. We get excited with him when he talks about his budding romance with Kevin, and how he joins the baseball team to be near him, and we hurt for him when fate plays an awful joke and his life is temporarily shattered. This is a kid's world and we're told about it by a gay kid. Adults play next to no role here. The story is thought provoking and wonderfully entertaining, proving the incredible highs and lows of adolescence stay unchanged from generation to generation.<br />I can not end this review without returning once more to the character of Brian Bund. Everyone who ever attended an American high school remembers a Brian or two. Those horribly mistreated outsiders who bore their lot with quiet dignity. Hartinger obviously remembered as well. His respectful portrait of this incredibly noble individual stands amongst the finest in contemporary gay fiction. I am unquestionably impressed.	2004-05-25
US	35140789	R3QLG8F56E39A1	0758203241	5771776	He's The One	Books	5	3	3	N	N	FLUFF WITH A CONSCIENCE	Having read IT HAD TO BE YOU and absolutely adoring it, I was thrilled to find author Timothy James Beck's latest offering, HE'S THE ONE. Needless to say, I bought the book and devoured it. Discovering this latest novel to be a sequel to IT HAD TO BE YOU only increased my delight in reading it. Beck's ongoing narrative about this group of Manhatanites, originally from Eau Claire Wisconsin, and their adventures in the Big Apple, is sweet, poignant, and thoroughly entertaining. In its own imaginative way, this story deals with many pertinent issues currently addressing the gay community; such as forgiving former tormentors, latent coming out, the search for commitment, and the devastating aftermath of losing a loved one to AIDS. The characters here are real and believable. People I, for one, would love to call friends. The bottom line however, is that HE'S THE ONE is a love story with an incredibly beautiful heart. It is my understanding that this novel was written by committee, Timothy James Beck being a compilation of all the participating party's names. Frankly, I don't care if it was written by a room full of chimps the result is wonderfully distracting and completely satisfying.	2004-05-20
US	35140789	R1ZH3K6XE2X295	1575668882	553768533	Faked To Death (Simon Kirby-Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A VAMPIRE COZY	FAKED TO DEATH is the second in the Simon Kirby-Jones mystery series by Dean James. Dr Kirby-Jones is a prolific author who writes historical biographies under his own name, and mysteries with a female sleuth under his pen name, Dorinda Darlington. Oh, by the way Simon Kirby-Jones is a gay vampire. Of course in this day and age vampires take pills three times a day that allow them a most life like existence. They can no longer turn into bats or put the glamour on people but the up side is they no longer sleep in coffins and they can go about in the day time. They do retain their intuitive gifts however.<br />In this second novel, Simon and his handsome trusty assistant Sir Giles, attend a writers' conference at the stately home of Lady Hermione Kinsale. Simon has a strong motive for attending. Someone, posing as Dorinda Darlington, will also be there, and Simon is determined to find out what the imposter is up to. A colorful cast of eccentric authors populate the writers' workshop and the reader is informed that each has reason to detest the fake Dorinda. Needless to say, it is not long before the imposter is dead and the mystery is in full swing.<br />This novel is a delightful English Cozy, full of off beat, fun characters, and set in the British countryside. James constructs an admirable who-done-it, with the prerequisite red herrings, and the reader is kept guessing as to the murderer's identity. The humor here is firmly tongue-in-cheek. This is a pleasant and distracting read from cover to cover and a definite credit to its genre. I look forward to the next installment.	2004-05-20
US	35140789	R33VZQPXYZFBUW	0966533399	878900025	Uprising: The Suspense Thriller	Books	5	1	1	N	N	AN INVENTIVE GAY THRILLER	UPRISING by Randy Boyd is that rare creature, a gay political thriller. This kind of story is most often found in the work of Michael Crichton and John Gresham, not on the gay fiction shelves. I can actually only think of one other book like this one, Felice Picano's totally engrossing THE LURE. Both books deal with undercover espionage within gay political groups and both entertain their readers as well, if not better, than their straight counter parts.<br />UPRISING features Othello, one of the biggest music stars on the planet, and a closeted homosexual. After finding out that he is HIV positive, Othello has a burning need to help jump start a gay revolution. To this end he enlists two other high profile closet cases, one a media mogul (think Ted Turner) the other, Americas greatest basketball player (think Michael Jordan). Together these three become the \\"Wise men\\" anonymously funding gay charity work and covertly funding gay counter-bashing across the country. Into the picture steps Raider Kincaid, an undercover FBI agent and the walking epitome of everything Othello has ever wanted in a boyfriend. He is a former lacrosse star and blonde Adonis out to bust this gay conspiracy. He is a man's man, but is he as straight as he thinks he is?<br />It is my sincere wish that more novels like this were available in the gay market. Randy Boyd has truly created an exciting piece of fiction here, full of breath taking close calls and heart pounding bravado. At the same time we the reader care about the characters in this novel. All are three dimensional and beautifully thought out. Some might argue that the entire premise is too far fetched to be believed, but isn't that what a political thriller is all about? Does anyone really think THE FIRM was viable? NO...but that didn't stop it from selling a gazillion copies. If the story is riveting, and this one certainly is, we are able to suspend our disbelief and dive right in to the churning narrative pool. I could not stop eagerly swimming through this book until I reached the highly dramatic conclusion, and what more could work from this genre ask for?eagerly swimming through this book until I reached the highly dramatic conclusion, and what more could work from this genre ask for?	2004-05-20
US	35140789	R3BLK1E9QX7LDJ	0595174086	691637883	Camping in the Backyard : Home on Leave	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A JOYFUL FANTASY	I must admit that at first I found the world created by this book very hard to swallow. Having grown up in the sixties, it was difficult to believe the incredibly gay friendly environment that permeates this story. However, as I continued to read this novel I discovered that the true nature of the piece was not about realism in any way, but more a joyful fantasy meant to spread a feeling of hope for wonderful possibilities, a wish for all things positive. Although not nearly as graphically erotic, it strikes me that this work by Mr. Zatti owes a great deal to the novels of Gordon Merrick. Both authors present a pre-Stonewall past where two men could find each other and fall in love and have a compassionate relationship despite societies road blocks. I for one, think that if gay men and women are to commit to the possibilities of unrestricted happiness in the future then it is important to believe in the romantic possibilities of the past. This book provides a glimpse of that past.	2004-05-20
US	35140789	R2C681QPVJVQ6W	0595190146	19840385	Uncle Sean	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THE FIRST IN A GREAT TRILOGY	To my fellow hopeless romantics, and I know there are quite a few of you, I want to recommend Ronald L. Donaghe's trilogy, THE CONTINUING JOURNALS OF WILL BARNETT, three books so full of simple honesty and heartfelt sincerity that even a few cynics out there may be swayed. UNCLE SEAN, LANCE and ALL OVER HIM share the unique perspective of a country boy who discovers love and his homosexual nature on a dusty dry New Mexico farm in the early 1970's.<br />Will Barnett is only 14 years old when his Mother's brother Sean (UNCLE SEAN) comes to stay with Will's family after returning from Viet Nam. Will is instantly smitten with his beautiful Uncle. Sean, who is dealing with the murder by \\"friendly fire\\" of his army lover, eventually recognizes Will's infatuation and tries to distance himself from it, but he sees the truth inside the boy and eventually begins to become emotionally attached. Through the course of the first book the reader experiences Will's growing love for his Uncle, as well as his Uncles attempts to teach Will, the beauty of what he is feeling as well as the impossibility of the two of them ever becoming \\"boyfriends\\". Frightened by the magnitude of his feelings for the boy, Sean eventually moves on, but not before he impresses upon Will, the importance of finding the right person to share his love with.<br /> A few years pass and Will meets Lance, a frightened abused boy, in the desert. Lance's family has recently moved to the area from New Orleans and Lance has run away after a sever beating by his Stepfather. It's near love at first sight for the two teenage boys, and Will realizes the importance of his Uncle's lesson about waiting for the right person to love. Will's parents take in the battered boy, even though Will's father passes on soon after. Lance joins Will (LANCE) at the local high school where eventually their relationship is discovered. Both boys learn quickly about what to expect from the world where their relationship is concerned, but their passion holds strong.<br />Eventually the boys finish school, the family sells the farm and Lance, a very talented artist, accepts a scholarship to art school in San Francisco while Will takes a scholarship to U.T., and goes to live with his Uncle Sean in Austin. (ALL OVER HIM) Can their love and commitment survive this major separation, especially in light of the burgeoning gay scene in Austin and San Francisco? Can Will, help his Uncle to finally move on from his devastating loss? Or will Lance and Will's relationship fall victim to the new Gay Revolution?<br />I was mesmerized by how accurately Donaghe describes the times and places in these books. Without a lot of hoopla the reader is given a very  important history lesson. When Will briefly describes reading THE FRONT RUNNER, it gave me chills. Reading THE FRONT RUNNER was the catalyst that made me come out 1974. I lived these times Donaghe writes about and felt these feelings he so wonderfully describes. I am forever in his debt for this love story.<br />Perhaps it is because I am the same age as Will or because I live in the same part of the country but I feel a bond to this story and its characters that I find difficult to adequately describe. I think more than anything it is the fundamental truth that runs through the books that makes them so special. In HOW LONG HAS THIS BEEN GOING ON, Ethan Mordden describes the characters of Walt and Blue as that extremely rare thing, a perfect fit. He could easily have been writing about Will and Lance. In relaying their story, Donaghe, provides hope for all the rest of us, especially our younger brothers who are just beginning their challenging gay lives. Donaghe's books speak to the magic of love, the desire to find the right guy, and be one. All the claims that gay men want a lifestyle different than what straight people have, all the assumptions that men are promiscuous by nature, are nothing more than misguided, weak attempts to erase this magic. Through the course of these novels Donaghe holds tight to these ideals, and it resonates on every page.rse of these novels Donaghe holds tight to these ideals, and it resonates on every page.	2004-05-20
US	35140789	R29ZZYDYS3RMX7	0312288670	95207168	The Other Side of Mulholland: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A TALE OF TWO BROTHERS,,,AND THEIR PARENTS	THE OTHER SIDE OF MULHOLLAND by Stephen Randall is a breezy yet biting account of the interconnected lives of Perry and Tim, twin brothers, and their parents Syd and Ann Newman. The brothers are both writers, Perry is straight and Tim is gay. Raised affluently in \\"the valley\\" both are struggling for success in the dog eat dog world of Hollywood. Perry, always the successful one, writes for a cable game show while Tim goes from temp position to temp position. Perry's girlfriend Nancy, an assistant to a young, hotshot actress, has aspirations of being a producer and to that end forms a production company with Perry to pitch a new sitcom he has conceived. Everything is going great until, behind his back, Nancy betrays Perry and manages to cut him out of the deal. As Perry's fortunes plummet Tim is hired to write for Hollywood Today, an up and coming internet entertainment access web site. This position leads to a syndicated newspaper column and a hot TV star boyfriend. While all this is going on Syd is faced with the very real prospect that his car dealership, Newman's Super Honda, will be sold out from underneath him by his greedy partners. All the while Nancy tries in vain to discover her true career calling.<br />Welcome to upper and lower Los Angeles, where the rich are richer than God and everybody else just tries to keep his or her chin up. As this witty and ultimately charming story unfolds the reader gets a real look at how deceitful the entertainment world can be and yet how dependable some things truly are. In this novel blood is most certainly thicker than designer bottled water. Randall has a real talent for keeping things light while exploring some rather disturbing truths. The pages turn quickly as we take this eccentric group of misfits to our hearts. Not really a gay book, but one with a happily matter-of-fact attitude towards the subject. I recommend it to anyone looking for a distracting fun time.	2004-05-11
US	35140789	R206FYF3IPOGY1	0671027204	725696403	Frontiers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Accurate Gay Historical Fiction	FRONTIERS<br />By Michael Jensen<br />Reviewed by Jak Klinikowski<br />I readily admit I have problems with gay historical novels. Of course there are exceptions, but most of these books tend to use contemporary language and slang, and are told from a modern point of view, leaving me feeling like I've just attended a costume party instead of completing a work of viable fiction. I am thrilled to say that FRONTIERS by Michael Jensen is one of the previously mentioned exceptions. The painstaking research and the almost obsessive attention to detail are apparent from page one of this mesmerizing, and edge-of-your-seat-exciting story. I felt as if I had been transported to the harsh and unforgiving landscape of 1798 Western Pennsylvania, where I watched the life of protagonist, John Chapman, unfold.<br />John Chapman, fleeing an impoverished childhood and an abusive father, has been running for his safety since he turned 14. (...). As the adventure begins John, living in Lower Canada, has been having a relationship with a Major in the British Army. The affair has been discovered by local authorities, and John and the Major are forced to make a dash for freedom. Unfortunately, the Major gets shot so John, on his own, heads for the Western frontier in hopes of staking a claim and starting his own farm. (...)<br />Winter is coming on and, John, with no frontier skills, wanders across the Allegheny Plateau in search of an outpost called Warren, where he has read, claims, and the supplies to work them, are being offered to settlers. Near starvation, our hero is discovered, and taken in for the winter, by a gruff and drunken woodsman. Discovering his benefactor has some deep and disturbing secrets, John once again flees at the first sign of spring.<br />He heads for the small settlement known as Franklin. Once again on the brink of disaster, John is led by an Indian woman to an abandoned claim a days walk from the new town. Encouraged by the settlement leader to take over the claim, John decides to stay. Among the few settlers he meets, is Palmer Baxter, a brash but handsome, seventeen year old frontiersman. Desperate to keep his natural inclinations in check, John does his best to discourage young Palmer, but the boy has no intention of being kept at bay. Even though they are on the very outskirts of society, John and Palmer must still face the overly-suppressive circumstances of the day. Added to this pressure, is the re-emergence of an incredibly evil presence from John's past. This is the outside edge of the known civilized world, and wrong decisions can easily equal death. Can John and Palmer survive the tremendous odds stacked against them?<br />Jensen is able to weave an incredibly romantic love story, despite the extremely cruel and prejudicial attitudes of this society, inside an outdoor adventure to rival anything ever written by Jack London.<br />This wonderful novel hooked me and reeled me in faster than a trout in a shallow stream. Jensen's incredible sense of detail and his sharp writing style made for one heck of an entertaining read. The scenes painted here provide the reader with a very real sense of time and place; a repressive time in an incredibly beautiful but dangerous place. I understand there is to be a sequel, I for one can't wait. I HIGHLY recommend this book, especially for anyone with an interest in accurate historical fiction.im, John decides to stay. Among the few settlers he meets, is Palmer Baxter, a brash but handsome, seventeen year old frontiersman. Desperate to keep his natural inclinations in check, John does his best to discourage young Palmer, but the boy has no intention of being kept at bay. Even though they are on the very outskirts of society, John and Palmer must still face the overly-suppressive circumstances of the day. Added to this pressure, is the re-emergence of an incredibly evil presence from John's past. This is the outside edge of the known civilized world, and wrong decisions can easily equal death. Can John and Palmer survive the tremendous odds stacked against them?<br />Jensen is able to weave an incredibly romantic love story, despite the extremely cruel and prejudicial attitudes of this society, inside an outdoor adventure to rival anything ever written by Jack London. <BR>This wonderful novel hooked me and reeled me in faster than a trout in a shallow stream. Jensen's incredible sense of detail and his sharp writing style made for one heck of an entertaining read. The scenes painted here provide the reader with a very real sense of time and place; a repressive time in an incredibly beautiful but dangerous place. I understand there is to be a sequel, I for one can't wait. I HIGHLY recommend this book, especially for anyone with an interest in accurate historical fiction.	2004-05-06
US	35140789	R115JMTO34EZ8N	1563335182	214393447	Albrick's Gold	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Over-the-Top Goldmine	Roger Cavendish, our gay hero, is a one of America's leading researchers. He has discovered a specific difference between the homosexual male brain and the heterosexual male brain. Roger is invited to speak at fictional Levitican University, an ultra-conservative right wing Christian institution, about his discoveries. His host is Dr.Albrick a notorious but brilliant scientist. Roger's initial lecture is interrupted by a group from Act Out, a gay organization opposed to his findings and Levitican in general. A melee ensues and Roger is whisked away from danger by Jeff, a student at the school and a member of the Levitican church. Come to find out, Jeff is gay but is participating in a program at the school to alter his preference to women. The lifestyle alteration procedure has had considerable success however a couple of recent graduates of the program have become involved in some very violent incidents. Intrigued, Roger begins to investigate, and stumbles upon a veritable, Pandora's box of illegal medical experimentation and manipulation involving not only the science department, but also the schools large corp. of ROTC cadets.<br />This book is an exceptionally involving edge of your seat thriller, with good gay guys and their straight comrades doing noble battle with evil right wing conservative villains. Along the way a sweet, if slight, love story develops between Roger and Jeff. Can Roger convince Jeff that there is nothing to be ashamed of in being gay? Will Jeff decide to be straight once he has the chance? Will our heroes, be able to discover a way to thwart Dr.Albrick's evil final plan before it is too late? All these questions and more, will be answered by the time this novel reaches its all out, full throttle, conclusion.<br />This book is way over the top in terms of believability, but it is one heck of a lot of fun to read. The pages don't turn fast enough. Levay's scientific background helps keep the medical and technical scenes hopping without being too far fetched, and the plot starts off at a sprint, and never once lets up its pace. Of course, if one were to question too closely, the plausibility of the premise, I suppose one could punch this book full of holes, but why would one want to spoil such an entertaining read?too far fetched, and the plot starts off at a sprint, and never once lets up its pace. Of course, if one were to question too closely, the plausibility of the premise, I suppose one could punch this book full of holes, but why would one want to spoil such an entertaining read?	2004-04-24
US	35140789	R2IB4AMQ5LHUHP	075820616X	361062878	The Trouble Boy: A Novel	Books	5	14	23	N	N	Take the Trouble to Read This Book	This riveting first novel takes an unapologetic look at the first post-Yale year in the life of cute twenty two year old Toby Griffin, an insecure gay man dealing with the pressures and demands of big city existence. Success in ?The Big Apple? is the goal here, and upon graduation, Toby joins the rest of the migrating Ivy League masses determined to find it.<br />Toby, a child of privilege originally from San Francisco, is a struggling writer with dreams of Oscar winning screenplays and world-wide recognition. He also fantasizes about ?hooking up? with the perfect guy and living in domestic bliss. However, if he doesn?t achieve these goals ?like right now?, he is sure he will be perceived as a total failure by the very society he so desperately wants to succeed in.<br />Inevitably, comparisons are bound to be made concerning, THE TROUBLE BOY and, SEX AND THE CITY, but I am more readily reminded of Tom Wolfe?s brilliant, THE BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES. The portraits painted of ?the high-living capital of the world? by both these books, while certainly different in scope, are not only spot-on, but fascinating to look at.<br />THE TROUBLE BOY, beautifully integrates human geed and the need for success, with all the insecurities inherent in being extremely young and career driven. The young men and women here walk a very fine line between what they want to accomplish, and what they have to do to accomplish it. Integrity still has a place in this fast paced world, but quite often these players have their blinders on to it. This wonderful ?slice of life? piece of fiction is full of candid observations and truths about big city life and aspirations. While the book is painstakingly realistic, it still remains blatantly hopeful.	2004-04-04
US	35140789	RB8QVWB2CHRFI	1928662021	335095052	In and Out in Hollywood	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Basically Unsatisfied With Hollywood	After reading the promotional material for this novel, as well as the jacket's brief biography of the author, I could not wait to get this book home for a good dishy read. Unfortunately, I was disappointed and aggravated with the material. I was disappointed because the protagonist was spineless and horrendously gullible. Freddie, our hero, starts off as a secure gay man, proud to be out. It is hard to believe that someone with so much self esteem could allow himself to be so completely bamboozled and re-closeted by his new employers. I could accept Freddie as inexperienced and green, but not for the entire year of his employment. If he's been around the block enough times to hold his own with Broadway Divas and Drag Queens, then he should have seen his situation at his new job in television for what it was, and acted appropriately. It is difficult to muster much sympathy for such a total cry baby. I was aggravated because I can not recall ever having read a published manuscript with so many TYPOS. Did any one proof this book before or after it hit the printers? I for one find the overabundance of mistakes with the printed text to be very disconcerting. On a positive note, I think the author shows great potential. The plot was well balanced and the supporting cast was amusing. I hope with his next offering, Mr. Johnson will provide his readers with a stronger more self assured lead character, someone who is not only openly gay, but someone who is not willing to be pushed around because he is.	2004-04-01
US	35140789	RGP1VHOITQUTF	0312313128	806687612	Murder by Design: A Rick Domino Mystery (Rick Domino Mysteries)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Doesn't Come Close to the First One	MURDER BY DESIGN<br />By Jon P. Bloch<br />Reviewed by Jak Klinikowski<br />MURDER BY DESIGN is the second installment in the Rick Domino Mystery series. This time around, Hollywood TV gossip reporter, (think, Steve Kametko) Rick, has been asked to be a participant on the wildly popular program, My House, Your House, a sort of Trading Spaces knock-off. On the program two couples exchange addresses and with the help of a member of the show's design team, redesign a  room in the other's home. Of course being on this show is not Rick's idea but rather that of his ratings obsessed boss, Max Headroom. Rick is financially strapped at the moment, and, as he would really like to change his living room, reluctantly agrees to the project. Rick is currently single, leaving him without a partner for the show, so he is forced by Max to team with his TV co-host Mitzy McQuire, whom he can not stand. It's bad enough that he has to work with her every week, but now this? The other couple, chosen by Rick, is recently out cop, Terry Zane, (Rick's crime solving partner in the first book of the series, BEST MURDER OF THE YEAR) and his ex-wife, Darla Sue. During the course of the \\"house swap\\" the designer working with Rick and Mitzy, Helena, is murdered and the show's carpenter, Ann Margaret Wochinsky, is accused of the crime. Ann Margaret just happens to be Terry's cousin. You got all that? Believe me, there's more, and it gets sillier and sillier.<br />I really enjoyed the first book in the series, it was pleasantly over-the-top, had a nice catty take on the Hollywood scene, and was a great little diversion as far as murder mysteries go. The relationship between Rick and Terry showed promise, and I looked forward to the next installment. Unfortunately, this second book has lost the sophisticated edge of the first novel. The characters here are totally unbelievable, and the plot twists are just plain ridiculous. Where the first book was amusing, this one is absurd and completely contrived. I couldn't put the first book down, and I had to force myself to pick this book up and finish it. The relationship between Rick and Terry (the best part of both books) still crackles with sexual tension but it doesn't move much beyond what was established the first go round, a big disappointment for me. I sincerely hope the next book spends a little more time advancing their special bond.<br />If you read BEST MURDER OF THE YEAR, and enjoyed it, than certainly, give MURDER BY DESIGN a try. Despite its shortcomings, the writing still maintains that tongue-in-cheek quality that made the first book so much fun. However, if you are expecting the same level of entertainment achieved the first time, I'm afraid you too will be extraordinarily let down. Perhaps it can be blamed on the subject matter, or maybe the complete lack of  sympathetic supporting characters, but this novel simply does not live up to its predecessor. One can only hope the next installment will be much improved.I couldn't put the first book down, and I had to force myself to pick this book up and finish it. The relationship between Rick and Terry (the best part of both books) still crackles with sexual tension but it doesn't move much beyond what was established the first go round, a big disappointment for me. I sincerely hope the next book spends a little more time advancing their special bond.<br />If you read BEST MURDER OF THE YEAR, and enjoyed it, than certainly, give MURDER BY DESIGN a try. Despite its shortcomings, the writing still maintains that tongue-in-cheek quality that made the first book so much fun. However, if you are expecting the same level of entertainment achieved the first time, I'm afraid you too will be extraordinarily let down. Perhaps it can be blamed on the subject matter, or maybe the complete lack of  sympathetic supporting characters, but this novel simply does not live up to its predecessor. One can only hope the next installment will be much improved.	2004-04-01
US	35140789	R1HN70A3C3LLI8	0595175791	506948756	The Coming Out Party	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Timeless Classic for the Gay Community	In my constant search for interesting gay fiction, I sometimes stumble upon rare gems, published years ago, that I previously overlooked. One such glittering diamond is THE COMING OUT PARTY by John Caffey. Originally published in 1982, and awarded the 1983 \\"Pen Prize for First Work of Fiction\\", this book has been out-of-print until recently. If you have not read this little masterpiece, I highly recommend that you do.<br />This is the story of Cal and his lover, Sid, two older, wealthy, L.A. Queens, bored with life, and looking for a challenge. They decide, on the spur of the moment, to create the perfect gay man with which to \\"WOW\\" their jaded friends on the \\"circuit\\". To this end, they pick up Hal, a naive and terribly unhappy, over-weight college student. Cal and Sid discover Hal stranded, with a flat tire, on Santa Monica Blvd, and whisk him away to their mansion in the Hollywood Hills, for the make-over of all make-overs. They have several months of hard work ahead of them in order to transform Hal into the perfect \\"Gay Adonis\\", and debut him at the \\"Debutants for Human Rights Ball\\", held yearly on Halloween.<br />All is going swimmingly until Hal tumbles, head-over-heels, in love with the \\"pool man\\". Cal is determined to nip this infatuation in the bud. After all, the \\"pool man\\" doesn't have two dimes to rub together, and is a totally inappropriate match for his creation; his child if you will.<br />Take AUNTIE MAME, THE WIZARD OF OZ, LA CAGE AU FOLLE, MY FAIR LADY, and SLEEPING BEAUTY, dump them in a blender, mix until smooth, and out would pour this wonderful gay fairy tale. The characters in this novel, both good and evil, are delightfully outrageous, and the story literally sprints from page to page. The dialogue is cunning and catty without being overly bitter, and the love story is truly one of the most touching I have ever read. I simply can not stop thinking about this fabulous little (215 pages) book, and I felt compelled to share my opinion here.<br />If you've never read this book then, by all means, get a copy as quick as you can. If you have read it, read it again because I'll bet you've forgotten how much you loved it./>If you've never read this book then, by all means, get a copy as quick as you can. If you have read it, read it again because I'll bet you've forgotten how much you loved it.	2004-03-24
US	35140789	R3TQO63GNLW7SF	1413405924	741531431	Out of Bounds	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Come Out, Come Out, Whoever You Are	Matt Walker is a seldom used shooting guard for the New York Knicks, however, as the novel begins, that is about to change. Anthony Michaels, the hotshot, signed out of high school. hoops star, is not playing up to his potential, and Matt is getting more and more court time, proving to the coach that he should be the starter. At the same time his star is beginning to rise, Matt attends a fund raiser for his old private high school, where he makes sure to run into Reese Gibbons, the socially outcast editor of their classes' yearbook, and someone he knows to be gay. Reese is now a columnist for the \\"Village Voice\\" where he covers popular culture from a gay perspective. Reese has had a desperate crush on Matt since they were class mates, and much to his surprise, Matt has a crush on him now.<br />Reese is a well known Queer-around-town, and Matt is a closet basketball star so, even though they fall deeply in love with one another, there are extremely serious issues threatening their relationship. Reese must accept the fact that Matt refuses to publicly acknowledge his homosexuality, even though Reese has always felt it important for gay celebrities to be open about, who they are. In the past, Reese has attempted to out gay celebrities in his column, but now he tries desperately to see the situation from the celebrity's (Matt's) point of view. Needless to say, Reese feels like a hypocrite, but he loves Matt enough to swallow his principles.<br />As Matt becomes a bigger presence on the team, his media popularity surges. Rumors about his sexuality begin to spread, and Matt pushes his relationship with Reese further into the closet, causing additional stress on them both. Finally the, \\"New York Post\\", quoting an anonymous source on the Knicks, outs Matt, and all hell breaks loose. Matt, in a high state of panic, pushes Reese to his limit. Will their relationship survive?<br />This is a very tight, well written book. The characters feel real and the often gut-wrenching situations, in which they find themselves, instill genuine empathy. The novel painstakingly explores all the ramifications of coming out, while still playing as a professional athlete, showing all the ups and downs imaginable. I anxiously turned every page wondering what was going to happen next. OUT OF BOUNDS was a total pleasure from cover to cover, or should I say court to court?uations, in which they find themselves, instill genuine empathy. The novel painstakingly explores all the ramifications of coming out, while still playing as a professional athlete, showing all the ups and downs imaginable. I anxiously turned every page wondering what was going to happen next. OUT OF BOUNDS was a total pleasure from cover to cover, or should I say court to court?	2004-03-21
US	35140789	R20JH74J9IJK9J	0759619107	175565857	Keegan's Folly	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A LITERARY SATIRE OF LITERATURE	KEEGAN'S FOLLY is a strikingly fresh and original story about a charming yet uneasy writer, trapped by his own incredible success, jilted by the man he adores, and struggling to come to terms with his muse.<br />Keegan Kane was going to be the next Gore Vidal, all the critics said so. His stories in The New Yorker as well as other highbrow publications seemed to indicate that he had a very promising literary career ahead of him. That is until he makes a bet with another up and coming author to see who can write and publish the first gay eclectic Harleguin series set in the ancient world.  Keegan writes and publishes HADRIAN'S BALL, a tongue in cheek potboiler set in the Roman Empire. Keegan wins the bet and finds himself at the top of the best seller lists, but at the bottom of the critic's barrels. He is the king of the gay publishing world, but the laughingstock of the literary establishment. Success is not what he expected it to be. To make matters worse, his cheating lover, Wagner, humiliates him by publicly leaving him for an extremely wealthy financier. Of course the whole situation conspires to leave Keegan unable to write a single word. He is wealthy and well known, yet he is the prisoner of the pulp fiction cell he has made for himself. Into the mix steps Valentino, an extremely smooth male escort and quite possibly the most attractive man Keegan has ever set eyes on. Keegan feels the need to prove to Wagner that he is not destined to be alone in life, so Keegan hires Valentino to pose as his new boyfriend, and the fireworks that are this wonderful book begin.<br />This is an extremely humorous yet thought provoking novel about the absurdities of the literary community and the agents, publishers, authors and critics who populate it. It is on one hand a magnificent and hysterical romp through the New York publishing world, while on the other a complex examination of the values of creativity and the measures of self worth. Is this fluff masquerading as literature, or is it literature masquerading as fluff? Who cares! It is simply a wonderful read, full of devilish plot twists and fabulous dialogue, with delightful characters of outrageous proportion. I highly recommend it to one and all.ture, or is it literature masquerading as fluff? Who cares! It is simply a wonderful read, full of devilish plot twists and fabulous dialogue, with delightful characters of outrageous proportion. I highly recommend it to one and all.	2004-03-19
US	35140789	R282FYUHV4DTT1	0595298060	317116219	The Summer of My Discontent: A Better Place II	Books	5	6	8	N	N	All Sequels Should be this Good	To quote the book jacket, \\"THE SUMMER OF MY DISCONTENT is the much anticipated sequel to A BETTER PLACE\\", which happens to be my favorite in Mark Roeder's \\"Youth Chronicle\\" series. The time is late summer 1981, and the place is Verona Indiana. Teenage runaway, Dane lands in town, hell bent on experiencing life in a way that he's always been afraid of in the past. Dane is gay, desperately horny, and determined to find a boyfriend, regardless of the cost, be it blackmail or assault. He is going to get laid no matter what.<br />Also featured here, are characters developed in previous installments of the \\"chronicles\\". Ethan and Nathan, out high school seniors, very much in love with each other, and recent arrivals in Verona, Brendan, a football hero from Kentucky, and his slight but adorable boyfriend Casper. All four are living and working on Nathan's, Uncle's farm. A devastating draught has hit the region and crop failures threaten the farm's solvency. In an attempt to help out financially Casper and Nathan take jobs in downtown Verona, while Ethan and Brendan continue to work side by side on the farm, re-awakening erotic feelings Ethan has had for Brendan, but has been suppressing.<br /> Dane, hanging out in a park across the street from the restaurant where Casper has found a job, develops an infatuation for Brendan's boyfriend, but when he is unable to entice him, sets his sights on the ultra-hunky Ethan, a star on the high school wrestling team. Dane is determined to get into Ethan's pants, and he doesn't care what he has to do to accomplish his goal.<br />Will Dane be successful in his attempts at seduction? Will he get lucky with Austin, a young hustler he meets in the park and crashes with? To what depths will Dane sink in order to experience the gay sex for which he is so desperate? And what of Ethan, will he be able to resist his secret yearnings for Brendan, and stay true to Nathan? Will he finally be able to deal with, and move on from, the suicides of two gay friends who were lovers, but were unable to handle the homophobia surrounding them? All these questions, and more, are answered realistically if somewhat idealistically, thru the course of this very involving novel.<br />Does THE SUMMER OF MY DISCONTENT, stand on its own as a novel or are, Roeder's previous books required reading in order to appreciate this one? Yes to both questions. \\"DISCONTENT\\" provides enough background information during the story to keep the reader from being confused about characters developed in earlier novels, and it has its own rich individual plot, but it is, after all, a \\"sequel\\", and should be approached as one. I encourage reading SOMEONE IS WATCHING and A BETTER PLACE (in that order), before starting THE SUMMER OF MY DISCONTENT, for maximum enjoyment.gay friends who were lovers, but were unable to handle the homophobia surrounding them? All these questions, and more, are answered realistically if somewhat idealistically, thru the course of this very involving novel.<br />Does THE SUMMER OF MY DISCONTENT, stand on its own as a novel or are, Roeder's previous books required reading in order to appreciate this one? Yes to both questions. \\"DISCONTENT\\" provides enough background information during the story to keep the reader from being confused about characters developed in earlier novels, and it has its own rich individual plot, but it is, after all, a \\"sequel\\", and should be approached as one. I encourage reading SOMEONE IS WATCHING and A BETTER PLACE (in that order), before starting THE SUMMER OF MY DISCONTENT, for maximum enjoyment.	2004-03-19
US	35140789	REUIYRWMFL51B	0595257933	952431954	Dungeons and DragQueens: A Tony Allegro Mystery	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Bury This Puppy in the Dungeon!!!!!!	I want to start this review by stating emphatically, that I was sure I was going to love this novel. After reading the promotional material and a few reviews, I was certain this book would be a riot. It had drag queens fighting over a pageant title, it was set in swinging South Beach, and it was supposed to have loads of campy situations all packaged in a nifty murder mystery. I thought, WOW...drag, camp, and murder, three of my favorite ingredients for a festive read, how can I<br />lose? I ordered it toot sweet.<br />I just finished the book, and I have only one word to describe it. Ghastly! Have you ever watched an old Ed Wood's movie like GLENN OR GLENDA or an early, John Water's film, say DESPERATE LIVING? Remember how absolutely vile they were? As much as you wanted to like them, because they were exploring subjects in a way that had never been tried before, using drag queens and attempting high camp, you had to admit, by the time the final credits rolled, they were totally amateurish and awful. Well, DUNGEOUNS AND DRAG QUEENS lands face first into this category of entertainment.<br />The book is poorly written, and badly plotted. It tries desperately to be clever, but all it manages is garish buffoonery. The author obviously knows nothing about the world of drag, and his sense of camp is embarrassingly non-existent. I had to force myself to finish it as a sort of penance for having been so sinfully wrong in my selection.<br />The only positive things I can say about this book are that it has a colorful cover, and the opening paragraph (used to promote this mess on internet book sites) is catchy. Way too catchy I'm afraid. I encourage everyone to run, not walk, away from this absolute disaster.	2004-03-11
US	35140789	R1HN8WVPGT7TV8	0758206151	803129929	Man Of My Dreams	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Bang Bang and More Bang	Once again, Kensington Publishing gives us four novellas centered on one basic theme, in this instance the ideal man. Of course what is an ideal man for, if not to have tons and tons of sex with, and this book certainly does not slouch on that score. Each one of the four stories has its fair share of graphically described banging. Sometimes it fits integrally with the plot but more often than not, it is simply gratuitous. Mind you, I have no problem with gratuitous sex, especially when it is well written, but I do think it behooves a reviewer to point it out. This collection is defiantly not for the pornographically-challenged. OUT OF BOUNDS by Dave Benbow, in my opinion, is far and away the best of the four novellas. This is a beautifully told tale of an old desire finally fulfilled. Of all the stories, I think this is the one most easily related to. Wade was an over-weight teen geek with a massive crush on Colton Jennings, the star quarterback. It's twenty years later and Wade has blossomed into a very successful real-estate selling hunk, all set to show his former school chum Colt, the professional football player, a few houses to consider buying. But is a house the only thing the recently divorced grid-iron star is shopping for? The sex here is by far the most erotic because it plays a very real part in the love story. Also, the issues involved in coming out as a gay athlete are extremely well handled. In my opinion this wonderful novella sends a strongly needed message to gay men. Happy endings are possible, and we have every right to want and expect them. Bravo to Dave Benbow for having the courage, in the face of the kind of gay cynicism we see every day, to deliver this message. I would give this story 5 stars by itself	2004-02-26
US	35140789	RDWRCZ9V6MQWO	0758204957	319290542	The Actor's Guide To Murder	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A FUN  RIDE THROUGH MURDEROUS HOLLYWOOD	The Actor's Guide to Murder by Rick Copp is a wonderfully entertaining read, and a pretty darn good who done it as well. This charming story of a once famous child star determined to get to the bottom of his friend's death kept me burning the midnight oil. The book is full of interesting characters, and manages to maintain a good but not overblown sense of humor throughout. I was particularly fond of the twins, but I don't want to say any more about them, as I don't want to give anything about the murder plot away. I found the narrator and main character, former child star Jarrod Jarvis, to be well rounded and totally believable, and I found his butch but sensitive boyfriend Charlie the cop to be every gay man's dream...well at least mine. I love a book that has a strong and loving gay relationship at its core. The Actor's Guide to Murder does not disappoint on this score. With many an unexpected twist and turn, I found this book to be a fun filled ride through the murderous hills of Hollywood. I could not put it down! I highly recommend it.	2004-02-14
US	35140789	R2AYQL4CQOXU6O	0758203268	701023176	Where The Boys Are	Books	5	4	5	N	N	FIVE STARS ARE NOT ENOUGH !!!!!	This is one terrific well thought out book. It has been a long time since a work of fiction has touched me so deeply. Once again, William J. Mann takes his reader into the world of Jeff and Lloyd. A few years have passed since the death of their dear friend Javitz, and things have radically changed for our two soul mates, least of which are the people with which they share there daily lives. Where the first book, THE MEN FROM THE BOYS had a more somber desperate feel that spoke to the gay reality of its time, this new installment springs from a reality that could not have been imagined a few short years ago. This whole social upheaval is reinforced by the completely different style in which this book is written, a very interesting style indeed. Here we find a community no longer living in fear of the plague, (although the attitude is akin to ostriches burying their heads in the sand) where a whole new generation of gay men live and love without even having known someone lost to AIDS. This is the world of the cocktail and circuit parties. Young gay men treat the devastating epidemic as if it never happened. Through the pages of this intensely gratifying read, Mann addresses a multitude of issues concerning gay men and their culture. From the circuit scene to new age sacred-sex seminars respect is shown to all the many faces of our community, and contempt shown for all who preach exclusivity. However the bottom line here is the relationships between the characters, all of whom struggle in their search for respect and love. I was particularly moved by the frightening yet heartbreaking story of Anthony, a young mystery man, met at a New Years party. Here is a tale that speaks volumes about repressed emotions, and the constantly changing attitudes of the gay community. Mann has his finger squarely on the pulse of our times, seamlessly balancing characters and situations from three different generations, and keeping it all, stunningly believable. I am incredibly impressed!!!ly impressed!!!	2003-08-02
US	35140789	R23KBVGOZ7YOVZ	0595188273	216234946	Do You Know That I Love You	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Lavender Fairy Tale	This book is the third of Roeder's novels that I have read (A BETTER PLACE and SOMEONE IS WATCHING being the other two) and I must confess that I am hooked. These morality plays dressed up as gay teen romances admittedly border on the nauseatingly sweet, but they have the wonderful ability to make one proud to be gay. This, of course, is the primary purpose, and it is commendable how admirably the purpose is served. All of Roeder's books are, to some degree, inter-connected, which only adds to the pleasure when reading them. DO YOU KNOW THAT I LOVE YOU is a fairy tale for teens with a strong message about the need for positive role models for young gay men and women. The world in this novel is an idealistic place that doesn't resemble real life much. Jordan is a lonely closeted rock star desperately searching for love and Ralph is a devoted and loving fan. It doesn't take an Einstein to figure out where this relationship is going, but it is to the extreme credit of the author, that it goes there so plausibly. The pages turn at a quick clip, and before you know it you'll find yourself totally involved in the lives of these two young men. The target audience is teenage gay boys, but if honest sentiment and dream fulfillment don't make you want to gag, than you may find this novel to be a more than welcome diversion from life's deflating realities. If you prefer your edges to be hard, and your reality to be brutal, then this book is not for you. If however, you like your romance served up old fashioned style, and your stories to have a strong sense of right and wrong then do not hesitate to buy this book. To concede that the world of DO YOU KNOW THAT I LOVE YOU is not a realistic one, in no way diminishes the quality of the read nor will it dampen the strong sense of pride the reader will feel. If the real world were one tenth as beautiful as the world of this book, it would be a truly incredible place.	2003-06-17
US	35140789	R2N1C7UQEAOVMR	1555835929	99972846	The Book of Lies: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A LOT OF TRUTH IN THE BOOK OF LIES	I just finished THE BOOK OF LIES, and I've got to tell you, it is quite possibly the most intelligent novel I have ever read. I was absolutely blown away by this book. It is so unique compared to other works of gay fiction that I have read. The book concerns a young man working on his doctoral thesis about a group of writers known as the Purple Circle. I imagine that Picano's own involvement with the legendary Violet Quill Club provided some inspiration. I do not want to say too much, as this book is an incredible, thought provoking literary mystery, one that can truly only be solved by each reader. The time frame (by what I could figure out in the writing) seems to be 2006 or there abouts, thus providing some distance between the narrator's reality and ours the reader's. Anyway, I highly recommend it...	2003-06-06
US	35140789	R1R9EPUSSDBI54	0758201931	51196213	The Night We Met	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Fabulous Feel Good Gay Romance	I just read this book for the second time and this may be trite, but, once again, I simply could not put this book down. With a disarmingly fast pace and a feel good romantic spirit this novel zooms way over the top and smack into the readers heart. Who says a bit of fluff cant be charmingly absurd and touchingly poignant? The exceptional escapades of the wonderful outlaw lovers, as they fight for their relationship against hilariously impossible odds, will keep a smile on your face from cover to cover. Speaking as a hopeless romantic, I overwhelmingly recommend this fabulous book.	2003-06-06
US	35140789	REHL4NCTN91J5	0758203861	171681628	Daytime Drama	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A GUILTY PLEASURE FOR THIS OR ANY SUMMER	If you are searching for serious gay literature, then pass on this novel. If however, you have your heart set on a juicy, page burning, soap opera of a book then DAYTIME DRAMA is just what youve been looking for. I believe this type of fiction is commonly referred to as a guilty pleasure, but let me tell you, this story of love and back stabbing intrigue, set in the world of daytime soaps, is a total pleasure and I dont feel the slightest bit guilty in saying so. Oh, did I mention that it is also a steamy, titillating who done it as well? Its a shame that so few books provide their readers with this much fun. I for one, also appreciate the fact that the reader is given, not only interesting gay characters to hiss or cheer over, but also get a few interesting strait characters (one especially hot couple in particular) to root for too. After all, Danielle Steele and Judith Krantz quite often include gay characters in their fiction. I think its only fair that a book this worthy of comparison should do the same for straits. Dave Benbow has provided us with a dishy fast paced read that never seems silly, is sexy and naughty without being pornographic, and remains unashamedly over the top from beginning to end. I havent been entertained like this since ABC took DYNASTY off the air. Bravo!!!!<br />Also recommended: The Night We Met by Rob Byrnes, He's The One by Timothy James Beck, and The Book Of Lies by Felice Picano	2003-06-06
