US	35162670	R15FQVKM44UJ6N	0674000781	673421525	A Theory of Justice	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Misreading Rawls	John Rawls' masterful \\"A Theory of Justice\\" doesn't need to be defended by me, but I honestly doubt whether many of the far-right Amazon reviewers who attack the book have actually read it.  They certainly misunderstand or willfully misrepresent its arguments.  Take Mr. Walt Byars of Tampa, for example, who dismisses Rawls as a \\"bad philosopher\\" and then writes:  \\"Much of the veil of ignorance relates to getting the person in the original position to choose what is best for the average man.\\"  As anyone who has actually read \\"A Theory of Justice\\" knows, the original position rules out utilitarian results and generates principles of justice that protect the worst off members of society, not the average members.  How someone could read the book yet get this fundamental point wrong is amazing (unbelievable, in fact).  To paraphrase Amazon reviewer C.T. Dreyer (who has read and understood Rawls), \\"Just read the book!\\"	2004-05-17
US	35162670	R1QEY2290XBER0	1859844839	902230287	The Boom and the Bubble: The US in the World Economy	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Contrarian View of the Global Economy	This book is a detailed history of the global economy during the last three decades of the 20th century, with a particular emphasis on the U.S. \\"boom\\" in the 1990s.  The basic idea is that global manufacturing overcapacity has put downward pressure on profits and made it hard for the key manufacturing centers -- Europe, the U.S., Japan, and East Asia -- to prosper simultaneously.  Instead, prosperity tends to shift from one center to the other in the wake of shifting exchange rates. <br />The U.S. had a good run after 1985, when manufacturing profitability was restored because of currency depreciation, tax cuts, stagnant wage growth, and the slaughter of high-cost producers by high interest rates and cheap imports after 1980.  A dollar revaluation in 1995 squeezed American manufacturers all over again -- but consumption and investment kept booming for a few years because of a \\"wealth effect\\" caused by inflated stock prices.  However, since profits were actually declining while the stock market was going into orbit, the good times couldn't last forever.  The huge investment in telecom and IT turned out to be overinvestment, contributing to the problem of overcapacity and leading to the recession of 2002.  <br />In all, Brenner's book is a fascinating, neo-Marxist view of the economy, which poses a deep challenge to the prevailing \\"triumphalist\\" view of markets.  The focus on profits as the key driver of economic performance is refreshing and realistic.  I gave the book 4 stars instead of 5 only because the writing is unbelievably dry -- the book, basically, is a 300-page analysis of official statistics -- and because Brenner doesn't give provide much political context for his economic analysis.	2004-05-02
US	35162670	R2KSNEIRPK5OX2	0472113364	966451651	Robert Mugabe: A Life of Power and Violence	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good History but Not for Novices	This is an interesting, readable political history of Zimbabwe from the end of white rule in 1980 to the dubious Presidential election of 2002.  The account is based on author Chan's diplomatic experience, his numerous visits to Zimbabwe, and his mastery of the scholarly literature.  The narrative varies from the analytical to the impressionistic:  Chan writes very well, and has a gift for anecdote and the right turn of phrase.  That said, his choice of emphasis is sometimes bizarre.  Many pages describe Zimbabwe's military intervention in Mozambique in the 1980s, while relatively few are devoted to the more recent and eventful DRC intervention in the 1990s.  Similarly, Harare's relations with the British Commonwealth are treated in much greater detail than its relations with the IMF.  Economic developments in general are noted only in passing.  Readers already well-versed in Zimbabwean history will undoubtedly benefit from Chan's keen observations and insights.  But others coming to the subject for the first time, and interested in a straightforward chronology of events or basic biographic information on Robert Mugabe and other political players, might to turn to Martin Meredith's Our Votes, Our Guns instead.	2004-04-22
US	35162670	R39LUTITB1U39O	0140445684	581876784	Capital: Volume 1: A Critique of Political Economy (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	30	54	N	N	How Many Stars Do You Give to a Discredited Classic?	To tell the truth, I haven't read too much of Capital since I was assigned sections of it in a college course years ago.  However, the opportunity to once again match wits with Amazon reviewer Mr. Walt Bryars, an Austro-feminist-scholastic studying economics in Tampa, Florida, was just too tempting to resist.  His recent \\"review\\" of Capital can be found below (I've put the word in quotes since it isn't clear whether or not Mr. Bryars has actually read Capital, though he certainly hates it).  Mr. Bryars' views are clearly stated therein but his suggestion that Marx lived in the 18th century is a bit off.  News flash, Mr. Bryars:  the 1800s were the 19th century, not the 18th century.<br />Regarding Capital, it was a towering achievement of 19th century thought.  However, like the Wealth of Nations (written in the 18th century -- i.e., the 1700s) and other economics classics, Capital is mostly of historical interest today.  The book can be thought of, at least in part, as an unintentional reductio ad absurdum of the labor theory of value which was bequeathed to Marx by Classical economists such as Adam Smith.  Marx's tireless working out of the ramifications of this theory led him to embrace now-discredited conclusions about the declining rate of profit and the immiseration of the proletariat.  Marx was wrong, in other words, about some of the central parts of his economic system.<br />On the other hand, there's no doubt that he was a genius of the first rank.  To my knowledge, Marx was the first economist to seriously take up issues like underconsumption, boom-and-bust cycles, and the technology-driven growth of large business firms -- issues that only entered mainstream economic discussion decades later in the 20th century.  (I'll defer to Mr. Bryars on the history here, since it's possible that Spanish Dominicans wrote about the growth of large corporations in the 17th century -- i.e., the 1600s.)<br />Since Capital is incredibly long and frequently obscure, readers interested in contemporary Marxist economic thought might be better off reading something by Paul Sweezy or Ben Fine.  And readers looking for a readable, short, balanced, and easy-on-the brain overview of the totality of Marx's thought -- he was a philosopher and political thinker as well as an economist -- should consult Why Read Marx Today? by Jonathan Wolff.e, readers interested in contemporary Marxist economic thought might be better off reading something by Paul Sweezy or Ben Fine.  And readers looking for a readable, short, balanced, and easy-on-the brain overview of the totality of Marx's thought -- he was a philosopher and political thinker as well as an economist -- should consult Why Read Marx Today? by Jonathan Wolff.	2004-04-12
US	35162670	R2WFK0T19POMOT	0226768589	30249285	Beyond the Miracle: Inside the New South Africa	Books	4	17	19	N	N	One of a Kind	Step into any bookstore in South Africa and you'll see that the country is awash in social science literature (most of which is ephemeral and undigestible) while sorely lacking in modern histories that put post-apartheid events and developments in a framework for intelligent general readers.  This book is a notable and admirable exception.  Written by a leading South African journalist and non-academic historian, it's a readable, comprehensive overview of modern South Africa, with chapters on economics, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, the ANC's performance in office, HIV/AIDS, race relations, and more.  The judgments are balanced and Sparks weaves together anecdotes and analysis in the best journalistic fashion.  The book ably reflect his decades of reporting on South Africa. <br />The only real deficiencies are the lack of &quot;inside&quot; information on the ANC and Spark's failure to convincingly explain the paradoxes swirling around President Thabo Mbeki, a university-trained economist who is undeniably brilliant but whose crackpot medical theories have hamstrung effots to fight HIV/AIDS and have made South Africa the laughingstock of the scientific world.  These gaps are at the center of the book (hence my rating of four stars) but probably aren't Sparks' fault:  although the ANC now presides over a democratic state, it spent decades in underground resistance to apartheid, and remains highly secretive and quick to punish members who speak out against the party line.  I'm not sure whether anyone outside of the party's inner circle truly knows what makes Mbeki &amp; company tick.       <br />In contrast, the chapters on the media sparkle with first-hand accounts of mismanagement and internecine rivalry.  If only Sparks' had been able to write comparably illuminating chapters on the ANC!<br />I'm an American living in Johannesburg.	2004-04-11
US	35162670	R1BVNOW8KFH7CG	0802117643	228454813	The Good Doctor	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Wanted:  Plot and Characters	South Africa has produced more than its share of overrated fiction since the demise of apartheid in 1994.  This book is another example. It's the story of a white doctor who has fled a wrecked marriage in Pretoria to take up a sinecure in a faraway rural hospital.  His days are spent pretending to practice medicine alongside equally unmotivated colleagues; his nights are spent having paid [physical relations] with a poor black woman who can barely speak English.  His only ambition is to inherit the job of his supervisor, a black timeserver who busies herself with made-up adminstrative details. <br />One day an idealistic young white doctor arrives at the hospital to do a year of community service.  Although the two physicians share a room and a racial identity, they never understand each other.  The younger one is clueless about people and things, and tells lies about his past; however, he wants to \\"make a difference\\" by establishing community medical clinics to help the local population.  The older doctor resents his activism and the way it shakes up the lethargy in the hospital.  Eventually, through a series of mishaps, the newcomer is killed by thieves who may have connections to a shadowy apartheid-era figure.  <br />In the hands of Graham Greene, this would have been dynamite.  Unfortunately, author Galgut tells the story through the eyes of the washed up doctor.  He may be the only self-aware and honest character in the book, but he is also self-centered to the point of semi-autism, unable to understand lovers, collegues, or local blacks.  The gaps in his understanding are reproduced in the story itself, making for a patchy plot-line and for charcters who wander in and out of the narrator's field of vision but who never take on a life of their own.  The suggestive political subplot is never developed fully or even clearly explained.  <br />That said, the writing in The Good Doctor is spare and effective, and individual scenes are well-drawn:  the chapter wherethe older doctor visits his father and estranged wife in Pretoria captures perfectly the language and atmosphere of urban white South Africa -- no black character in the book comes alive for the reader the way these secondary white characters do.  <br />In general, readers shouldn't turn to The Good Doctor for a plot or for insights about the \\"new\\" South Africa.  There's little or nothing about HIV/AIDS, the ANC, black/white relations, the transformation of institutions, or any other subjects that feature in political discourse in the country.  (...)	2004-04-09
US	35162670	R12UMS96IANPU6	0801851491	227263124	Regional Powers and Small State Security: India and Sri Lanka, 1977-1990 (Woodrow Wilson Center Press)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid History	This is a workmanlike history of India's intervention in Sri Lanka in 1987-90, when Indian troops were dispatched to Sri Lanka to enforce a peace deal between the government and the LTTE, a Tamil insurgent group.  The deal was intended to end the Sri Lankan civil war by creating an autonomous Tamil region in the northeast of the island.  Unfortunately, the LTTE backed out of the bargain (for reasons that are still obscure) and took up arms against the Indians.  India pulled out its troops after three years of inconclusive fighting, but the bad blood led directly to the LTTE's assassination of Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1991.  The civil conflict has continued (with intermittent ceasefires) to this day, with thousands of deaths.<br />Most of de Silva's judgments are sensible and well-documented, and he writes calmly about issues that are fraught with emotion and ethnic baggage.  Unfortunately, his book is based mainly on documents and interviews from the Sri Lankan side, giving it a one-sided feel.  This wasn't de Silva's fault:   the decision-makers in Colombo seem to have been a model of openness compared to their counterparts in New Delhi, Madras, and the LTTE, who were inhibited by official secrecy laws, ingrained secretiveness, embarassment over the policy fiasco, and the sensitivities surrounding Gandhi's assassination.  Another negative:  De Silva tends to downplay human rights abuses committed by the Sri Lanka Army, perhaps because of his Sinhalese background and pro-government sympathies.  <br />But overall this is a good, scholarly work about a fascinating country.  It is highly recommended for readers interested in modern Sri Lankan history.  (I'm a foreign service officer who worked at the U.S. Embassy in Colombo in the mid-1990s.)	2004-03-28
US	35162670	R834MKTRICQH	0198761104	472149698	Natural Law and Natural Rights (Clarendon Law Series)	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Not for Beginners	This interesting but difficult book lays out a comprehensive theory of moral and legal philosophy.  Early chapters argue that certain forms of human flourishing (such as the good of knowledge) are self-evidently valuable; the final chapter paints a lovely picture of how &quot;playing&quot; in the &quot;game of God&quot; may be the ultimate purpose of human existence.  The intervening 200+ pages of text, however, are a tedious analysis of core legal concepts such as &quot;obligation&quot; and &quot;rule of law.&quot;  Conceptual distinctions are laboriously identified; sentences are sometimes hundreds of words in length.  The basic idea is that natural law is the law necessary to achieve the good of human beings and communities.  However, only masochistic students of jurisprudence will stay interested in the entire argument.  I found myself inadvertently skimming entire sub-chapters.  Readers just getting started on philosophy of law really must begin with authors like H.L.A Hart or Ronald Dworkin.	2004-03-27
US	35162670	R1IWFUQ60QPWF6	0312422342	926204962	The Wannsee Conference and the Final Solution: A Reconsideration	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent Monograph	This is a readable, thoughtful monograph on the origins and historical significance of the Wannsee conference, the notorious January 1942 meeting where Nazi officials finalized plans to exterminate European Jewry.  Noting that the decision on genocide was probably taken by Hitler in late 1941, author Roseman concludes that Wannsee's real purpose was to assert Reinhard Heydrich's control over Jewish policy and to sort out bureaucratic disagreements about the treatment of half-Jews and Jews married to German gentiles.  Roseman writes well, has a full command of the secondary literature, and understands the nuances and grotesqueries of bureaucratic politics (I'm a career State Department official).  Highly recommended for readers interested in World War II or the Holocaust.	2004-03-11
US	35162670	R11VU8ONGX4382	086091495X	911565289	Wall Street: How It Works and for Whom	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Needs an Editor	Journalist Doug Henwood has produced an interesting book on U.S. financial markets.  Written from a left-wing point of view, Henwood contends that these markets do not raise capital for new investments or improve corporate governance.  Instead, he argues that their primary function is to enable manic corporate restructurings that accomplish little besides shifting additional wealth to rentiers who already have plenty of it.  Henwood relies mainly on the research of others. <br />The good news about \\"Wall Street\\" is that Henwood is witty and iconoclastic.  The bad news is that having these traits doesn't mean that he can put together a good book.  His bloated and repetitive text mixes statistics, polemics, anecdotes, biz school research, and potted discussions of Keynes, Marx and Minsky (and Freud!).  The mish-mash of data definitely informs and entertains the reader (hence my rating of 4 stars) but never systematically establishes Henwood's core thesis about the parasitism of Wall Street.  The book is worth reading but mainly for readers with a background in finance or economics who can separate the wheat from the chaff.	2004-03-03
US	35162670	R1I4GLZWMDC1UV	0192803352	211920246	Why Read Marx Today?	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Marx for Beginners	One nice thing about the end of the Cold War was the relaxation of pressures to demonize (or deify) Karl Marx, the 19th century economist, philosopher, and activist.  This short, readable book is a good introduction to Marx's social and economic theories, written at a level appropriate for college freshmen or intelligent high school students.  Author Wolff rejects as unproven Marx's grand theories of historical materialism and surplus value, but he finds much of value in Marx's critique of capitalist culture and its tendency to warp humane values.  All in all, Wolff gives a balanced, intelligent assessment.	2004-02-28
US	35162670	R2B2WX61F7MDQ6	0691089809	574594550	A Theory of the Trial.	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Being and Litigation, by Martin Heidegger	This book analyzes \\"what really goes on\\" in a jury trial.  It's written by a philosophically-oriented law professor and trial attorney, who sees trials as a clash of narratives spun by rival litigators, each seeking to appeal to the jury's sense of equity and fair play.  Fortunately, the lawyers' story-telling never crosses the line into fiction because of constraints imposed by ethics rules, evidence rules, cross-examination, and the way jurors are forced by the trial process itself to grapple with the nitty-gritty of evidence.  Burns has many insights into litigation but his book is hilariously overwritten, and weighted down with the vocabulary of phenomenology and meta-narrative theory; the irrelvant decorative quotes from Aristotle, Wittgenstein, and Arendt get old fast.  Weirdly, much of the exposition is told through quotes from other works, as if the author was citing authorities in a legal brief.  The book desperately needed an editor to bring things down to earth.	2004-02-18
US	35162670	R38ENSWGNSGCLF	0060541644	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Mass Murder?  Don't Call Us	This is a readable, detailed history of the U.S. response (or non-response) to genocide in the twentieth century, particularly to the post-World War II holocausts in Cambodia, Iraq, Rwanda, and the former Yugoslavia.  Author Power weaves her narrative out of personal interviews and the careful study of primary documents.  However, her book isn't dry or \\"academic,\\" since she also takes pains to tell the grim history through the lives of quixotic, driven individuals like Raphel Lemkin, William Proxmire, Peter Galbraith, or Romeo Dallaire, who tried to shake the world out of its complacency and confront the enormity of mass murder.  Contrary to a few reviews below, Power's analysis is balanced:  Republicans and Democrats take their lumps equally.  Bill Clinton comes off badly.  So does Bush Elder.  So does almost everyone in a position to decide policy.  <br />I gave the book four stars instead of five because it is 50-100 pages too long, because it glosses over or ignores the U.S. response to genocides committed by allies such as Indonesia (in 1965) or Pakistan (in 1971), and because it needs a fuller discussion of the Nuremberg trials, if only for the sake of completeness.	2004-02-12
US	35162670	RYUDBK2Y3VDGP	0865970955	533900623	Rationalism in Politics and other essays	Books	5	28	31	N	N	A Classic	It's always interesting how different readers can react so differently to the same book.  Unlike some of the reviewers below, I found Rationalism in Politics to be gracefully written and vastly more learned and interesting than most political philosophy these days.  It's a great book for a rainy afternoon, with essays that can be read (and reread) in any order, illuminating every subject they touch on, whether Hobbes, or poetry, or historiography.  Oakeshott was pigeon-holed as a \\"conservative\\" during his life but his thought is too wide-ranging and nuanced to be shoved into simple categories.  He was not as profound or influential as Isaiah Berlin, another great philosophical essayist -- but anyone who likes philosophical and political essays will enjoy and learn from this book.	2004-01-26
US	35162670	RJMCD6XST8XUO	0945466358	713819379	Economics for Real People: An Introduction to the Austrian School	Books	3	43	113	N	N	Only As Strong as the Subject	(Truth in advertising:  0 out of 4 libertarian readers found any value in the following review.) <br />Economics for Real People is a clearly-written overview of \\"Austrian\\" economics, a super-libertarian school of economic thought founded by thinkers from Central Europe in the early 20th century.  The first chapters are devoted to methodology, price theory, money, capital, and the the role of the entrepreneur.  These chapters are interesting and lucid (and witty), as are later chapters dealing with the business cycle.<br />Unfortunately, author Callahan stumbles badly when he deals with practical policy issues or cases of market failure.  Here, the book falls into the familiar lapses that have made \\"Austrian\\" synonymous with \\"crackpot\\" in many circles.  Contrary to Callahan, Consumer Reports is not a substitute for the National Transportation Safety Board, the minimum wage cannot be evaluated without knowing the elasticity of demand for labor,  the concept of a public good is not meaningless just because it's fuzzy on the margins, etc., etc.  The Austrian tendency to answer all economic questions by citing first principles -- ignoring careful analysis of how particular markets function in practice -- is on full display in these sections.  <br />Economics for Real People would be a good book to supplement an introductory college course in neo-classical economics (along with a book on Marxist economics).  However, Callahan's  failure to engage with neo-classical economics or to consider non-Austrian views seriously makes it a bad introduction to economics as understood by the vast majority of practitioners.<br />Footnote:  To put Mr. Bryars' review in context (see above), readers should look at Appendix A of Economics for Real People, where Callahan writes that Menger founded the Austrian School in 1871 but then notes:  \\"It was [Bohm-Bawerk's] research and writing that solidified the status of the Austrian School as a unified way of looking at economic problems.\\"  Bohm-Bawerk wrote in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and presided over a famous seminar in Vienna from 1903 to 1913.  The seminar's most illustrious student, Ludwig von Mises, put the final touches on the Austrian \\"system\\" with his theories about the business cycle and socialist calcuation.  Mises later emigrated to the U.S. and become the object of posthumous cultish websites referenced by Mr. Bryars.  Bottomline:  Readers should ignore the Austrian School's more argumentative devotees (and critics) and read Callahan's book instead.  But take it with a grain of salt.<br />Footnote II:  At the risk of continuing a dialogue with Mr. Bryars that has little to do with Economics for Real People (but which may entertain Amazon customers):<br />-- Re the minimum wage, readers should consult Card and Krueger's NBER Working Paper no. 4509 (1994), which researches the impact of minimum wage hikes in one industry (fast foods).  The conclusions don't support the usual Austrian/libertarian position.  Many Austrians frown on empirical research (for reasons that are too theological to discuss here), but purely as a matter of theory, if the demand for low wage labor is sufficiently inelastic, a hike in the minimum wage can steer extra income towards the working poor even though it eliminates a few jobs.<br />-- Re Rothbard on Mises, Rothbard once wrote:  \\"[Mises] solved all the problems and inconsistencies that I had sensed in economic theory...Never would Mises compromise his principles, never would be bow the knee to a quest for respectability or social or political favor.  As a scholar, as an economist, and as a person, Ludwig von Mises was a joy and an inspiration, an exemplar for us all.\\"  I found this quote at -- surprise! -- the Ludwig von Mises Institute website.<br />Jousting with libertarian strangers is fun but life is short.  Mr. Bryars:  The last word is yours.<br />...	2004-01-19
US	35162670	R1MBTMALBS4JPB	158648186X	267400619	Our Votes, Our Guns: Robert Mugabe And The Tragedy Of Zimbabwe	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Decline and Fall of Zimbabwe	This is a super-readable book about the career of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, whose corruption, brutality, and paranoia have wrecked Zimbabwe's democratic institutions and have brought the country to the brink of economic ruin.  The book is refreshingly free of cant, and the author has a sharp eye for political grotesqueries, which have abounded in post-independence Zimbabwe.  My only complaint (and hence the rating of 4 stars) is the lack of footnotes or any real analysis of the social or economic currents underlying Zimbabwean politics.  Instead, journalist Meredith is content to chronicle events newspaper-style.	2004-01-11
US	35162670	R1W023GRDBV9KB	0804718555	973155775	Robert Nozick: Property, Justice, and the Minimal State (Key Contemporary Thinkers)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Keep This Book Alongside Anarchy, State, and Utopia	I don't have much to add to the other reviews of this excellent, well-written book.  Although Robert Nozick's landmark book Anarchy, State, and Utopia entered the canon of political philosophy soon after it was published in the mid-1970s, it is a remarkably disorganized and difficult book.  Here, English philosopher Jonathan Wolff carefully and lucidly reconstructs ASU's main arguments.  Along the way he points out numerous problems and holes in ASU -- raising huge difficulties for its libertarian approach to politics -- but he is scrupulously fair and acknowledges that Nozick has changed the face of political theory.  I read this book immediately after I struggled through ASU and I can't exaggerate how it deepened my understanding of Nozick's book.  And it's short!	2004-01-06
US	35162670	R2LDZL2V12NFYK	0465097200	39953810	Anarchy, State, and Utopia	Books	3	10	19	N	N	Property Rights Absolutist	Anarchy, State, and Utopia was published in the 1970s on the eve of Reaganism and Thatcherism.  As the first libertarian treatise written by an analytic philosopher at a major university, it caused a sensation as much because of its novelty as because of its arguments.  It's a hard book to characterize.  On the one hand, many sections sparkle with brilliance and humor, and the text is filled with ingenious arguments.  Unfortunately, ASU is also badly organized and occasionally unreadable.  The analysis is abstract and technical, with few references to classical political thinkers (except for Locke) and little discussion of real-world political institutions.  But whatever its merits or demerits, ASU has entered the canon of modern political theory.  <br />Part 1 (Anarchy) argues against anarchism by showing how a \\"nightwatchman\\" government could emerge from the state of nature without anyone's rights being violated.  This section, unfortunately, is packed with unreadable digressions.  My advice to readers who already believe that government has a legitimate role -- and who already believe that stateless societies like Afghanistan or Somalia would be bad places to live in -- is to skim this section.  However, the discussion of vegetariansim is interesting and The Experience Machine is one of the great thought experiments of modern philosophy.<br />Part 2 (State) is the heart of the book.  Here Nozick attempts to show that no state more extensive than the \\"nightwatchman\\" state can be justified.  He defends an \\"entitlement\\" theory of justice, which holds that any distribution of assets, no matter how unequal, is just so long as it arises through a process that violates no one's rights (and thus \\"entitles\\" the owners to hold their assets against all claims).  The Wilt Chamberlain thought experiment -- another masterstroke -- shows how market transactions can upset just distributions of assets without creating injustice.  Nozick contrasts \\"entitlement\\" approaches with \\"end-result\\" theories that focus attention on the distribution of assets at a point in time.  Many pages are devoted to criticizing A Theory of Justice by John Rawls.  So far as I could tell, the thrust of Nozick's complaint is that Rawls works within a philosophical framework that can't generate an entitlement theory of justice -- which seems to beg the question.<br />Part 3 (Utopia) deals with meta-utopian theory.  To tell the truth, I skimmed it.  <br />Nozick writes as if property rights are inviolable whenever property is acquired without violence or through voluntary exchanges, with the result that it is illegitimate for the government to redistribute wealth.  To this extent, his argument is a reductio ad absurdum of libertarianism, since it entails that a 1 percent tax cannot permissibly be levied on Bill Gates in order to buy food for starving children.  Since this conclusion is absurd yet follows logically from Nozick's premises, one or more of the premises must be invalid.  My vote for the shakiest premise is the discussion of how the institution of property -- complete with \\"entitlements\\" -- gets started in the first place.  Nozick writes as if property rights come into existence in the state of nature, with the \\"nightwatchman\\" state arising afterwards in order to protect them. He never considers the possibility that a government and legal system might be logically prior to property rights -- in which case, the rights might come into existence with \\"social\\" strings attached to them that limit their absolute nature.  Take the case of limited liability corporations:  their shares are bought and sold on markets, they own huge amounts of property -- yet they are entirely a creation of government-made law!  <br />In fact, Nozick never really tries to establish \\"foundations\\" for his property rights theory at all, leaving a gigantic hole in his argument.  It isn't clear in any event why libertarianism must rule out limited abridgements of property rights if these would enhance the real-world liberty of real-world people.  Nozick acknowledges this possibility in a footnote on p. 30, where he allows that it might be legitimate to relax property rights in order to avoid \\"catastrophic moral horror.\\"  If this is taken to include evils such as child labor, malnourishment, illiteracy, homelessness, schizophrenics freezing in the streets, deaths that could be prevented with proper health care, or genocide in foreign lands, then not much is left of Nozick's theory.  <br />Similarly, on p. 231, Nozick concedes that his \\"entitlement\\" theory of justice has no application to any society where the existing distribution of assets might reflect historical injustices (such as slavery or legalized gender oppression).  He writes:  \\"One cannot use the analysis and theory presented here to condemn any particular scheme of transfer payments, unless it is clear that no considerations of rectification of injustice could apply to justify it.\\"  This should have prevented historically-informed libertarians from using the book as an apologia for libertarian policies -- but it didn't.         <br />Perhaps I'm put off by ASU because I'm the parent of a mentally handicapped child.  Surely anyone who appreciates the varieties of human vulnerability and understands the need for social safety nets will be appalled by Nozick's cramped vision of government.  Nozick himself disavowed libertarianism in later books, and I gather that he made few converts in the world of academic philosophy.  But while ASU isn't persuasive, it is thought-provoking and charming, and occupies a secure place in the history of thought.  Read it but take it with a grain of salt.	2004-01-02
US	35162670	R3OAZ1L34OXC0U	0140288597	591230479	Mr. Darwin's Shooter	Books	3	14	15	N	N	A Bit of a Snore	Mr. Darwin's Shooter recreates the 19th-century world in language that is baroque, evocative, and almost poetic.  The book is filled with impressive learning on almost everything --  from life on sailing ships, to the genocide of Argentina's Indian population, to the nitty-gritty of slaughtering and skinning animals.  Unfortunately, information and language don't necessarily make for a great novel.  In the case of Mr. Darwin's Shooter, the narrative is glacial, Charles Darwin has only a secondary role, and, contrary to many of the reviews below, the book never grapples with the \\"Big Idea\\" of Faith vs. Science except in an incidental, indirect way.  I liked the book, because I like pretty writing and I'm interested in the 19th century -- but there's no way that I would read it a second time.	2003-12-28
US	35162670	R1QWGQC2O5KLF0	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A Classic	This lucid and lively book tells the history of economic thought through the lives and times of great economists such as Smith, Marx, and Keynes.  The writing will grab most readers, making the book an ideal introduction to economics for intelligent high schoolers or college students who might be put off by the dryness of the subject.  There's no wonder that it's been in print for decades and has gone through numerous editions. <br />That said, the reader show know that Heilbroner's history stops with Keyenes and Schumpeter, thus ignoring the the revival of market-oriented schools of thought and the collapse of communism.  This will strike some readers as a huge omission, perhaps reflective of Heilbroner's advanced age or his aversion to the mathematical emphasis of contemporary economics.  Heilbroner would probably argue that no truly fundamental and original contributions have been made to the discipline in the last 50 years.  He may be right.       <br />Some Amazon reviewers, apprently of conservative bent, don't understand that The Worldly Philosophers is as much a book of history and biography as it is of economics.  To criticize Heilbroner for giving too much space to Marx and none to Friedman or the Austrians is to confuse historical impact and originality with correctness.  Marx had a gigantic impact on social thought and world history.  The Austrians were (and remain) a smallish cult, whatever their other merits.	2003-12-21
US	35162670	R1I43VWU62V1IE	0674000781	673421525	A Theory of Justice	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not for the Beach	A modern social contract theorist, John Rawls argues that the principles of justice should be selected from behind a \\"veil of ignorance\\" that prevents the parties from knowing their class positions, natural abilities, religious identities, and so forth.  With the parties shielded from bias and arbitrary influences, Rawls believes that they will chose to protect core civil liberties and to tolerate only those social inequalities that leaves less-advantaged groups better off than they would be otherwise.  Once it lodges in the mind, the argument of A Theory of Justice illuminates a remarkable range of political, legal, philosophical, and economic issues.  Every educated person should read the book -- but he should be warned that it is very long and that Rawls' writing is constipated and repetitive.  A Theory of Justice is a classic that cries out for an intelligent abridgement.	2003-12-19
US	35162670	RCTWTBQLBCEJO	0674011627	351049693	Freedom on Fire: Human Rights Wars and America’s Response	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Losing the Good Fight	John Shattuck was the top human rights official at the State Department in the 1990s when genocides occurred in Rwanda and Bosnia and the U.S. did nothing to stop them.  This fascinating book explains how that happened.  It discusses four human rights crises that occurred on Shattuck's watch in Rwanda, Bosnia, Haiti, and China.  In each case, a robust U.S. response was blocked or watered down by weak White House leadership, partisan sniping from Republicans, opposition from the business community, or the military's aversion to getting sucked into \\"another Somalia.\\"  Shattuck doesn't engage in petty recriminations and admits that he was sometimes overwhelmed and ineffective.  His book is thoughtful, well-written, and depressing.  (I'm a foreign service officer who served under Shattuck in the mid-1990s.  Although Shattuck was marginalized by the State Department's bureaucracy, he was regarded as an honorable and honest official.  There's no reason to disbelieve anything he reports in this book.)	2003-12-11
US	35162670	RRKGDND4F3RBN	B00005WCOV	807514364	A man of the people	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Sleaze, Jealousy, Politics	This novel tells the story of a hapless schoolteacher who enters politics seeking personal revenge after his girlfriend is seduced by a sleazy politician.  The book has wry humor, deftly-drawn characters, and a knowing, nuanced view of &quot;ground reality&quot; politics in Africa.  It isn't Dostoevesky but it makes the reader laugh and think -- and it's only 149 pages!	2003-11-26
US	35162670	R1TDGLFB131RV9	0060916419	262427917	Connections to the World: The Basic Concepts of Philosophy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Survey of Philosophy	Connections to the World is an elegantly written, non-technical survey of basic issues in metaphysics and epistemology.  The discussion of modern debates is woven into the broader history of philosophy and culture, giving the book a scope and appeal that extends beyond standard classroom philosophy.  If the narrative doesn't hold the reader's interest at all points, or if it seems like \\"much ado about nothing,\\" it's the fault of philosophy, not the author.  However, the reader should be warned that the book is too advanced for most high school students or college freshmen.  The ideal reader is someone who has already taken a few philosophy courses and is now interested in stepping back to get a \\"big picture\\" view of the discipline.  Beginners would be better off with a book like Thomas Nagel's excellent (five stars!) What Does It All Mean?	2003-11-21
US	35162670	R1A60FMIEYKLWQ	0930073185	347077241	Human Action: A Treatise on Economics	Books	2	140	362	N	N	Mixed Bag	As shown by the reviews below, Human Action is the object of a libertarian cult, and regarded by some right-wingers as the greatest economic text of the 20th century (if not of all time).  In reality, it's a mixed bag.  Buried within the 800+ pages of text are worthwhile sections on entrepreneurship, monetary theory, inflation, and the business cycle.  There's even an interesting section on monopoly, an issue that most right-wing economists gloss over.  Unfortunately, to find these sections, the reader has to wade through hundreds of pages of repetitive, disorganized text, dubious historical asides, ponderous philosophizing, tirades against math (was Mises innumerate?), tirades against non-libertarian economists (was Mises jealous of their professional success?), and sheer nonsense.  <br />One example of the latter is on pg. 314, where Mises rants that public education can't help the poor to get ahead in life because successful entrepreneurs learn their craft on the job and thus don't need schooling.  (It's good to know that Harvard Business school grads aren't in demand in the marketplace.)  There's more hilarity just eight pages later, where Mises argues that a ban on the advertising of quack medicines will lead to government regulation of religion and free speech. (Sure, that's what happened after the Food and Drug Act was passed.)  And throughout the book Mises asserts that economics is an a priori science like logic or mathematics, as if markets or firms were concepts we analyze rather than things we find in the world.  If Mises had thought of economics as an empirical discipline, about real-world institutions, he might have been inspired to do real empirical research.  To judge by Human Action, he never did.    <br />It's too bad that cranky stuff is found on almost every page of the book, since it undermines the force of the good sections (and makes the book twice as long as it needs to be).  But the truth is that anyone with even an undergraduate knowledge of economics will have trouble taking seriously the whole Mises package.  To my knowledge, Human Action isn't taught in any leading economics department in the country.  Libertarians see this non-attention as a conspiracy to repress Mises' views.  Just read a few sections of Human Action at random and you'll understand the real reason.	2003-10-27
US	35162670	R1FVJBDUFJNISN	0700612122	789574760	The Vietnam War on Trial: The My Lai Massacre and the Court-Martial of Lieutenant Calley (Landmark Law Cases and American Society)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Good History of an American War Crime	This is a fascinating, balanced history of the My Lai massacre and the prosecution of William Calley.  Although the events in Vietnam and in the courtroom are at the center of the book, the narrative ranges from the origins of the Vietnam war and the administration of the draft, to the machinations of the Nixon White House.  The writing is clear and the judgments sound.  My only serious complaint is that author Belknap keeps the narrative too focused on Calley's personal history, his actions on the day of the massacre, and his subsequent court-martial -- whereas it is clear from the text that many, perhaps most, of the soldiers in Charlie company went berserk alongside Calley and joined in the slaughter of Vietnamese civilians.  It would be interesting to know more about the other \\"grunts\\" and junior officers who shared responsibility with Calley.  Unfortunately, they have a walk-on role in the book, apparently because most of Belknap's research was based on legal materials such as the official record of Calley's trial.	2003-10-12
US	35162670	RSKZBLRM54HU6	0135678196	314702925	Metaphysics, 4th Edition	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Introduction to Philosophy	\\"Metaphysics\\" has been used in classrooms since the 1960s, and for good reason -- it is a clearly-written introduction to central metaphysical issues such as the mind/body problem, determinism and free will, and the existence of God (the chapter on God has been reprinted in numerous anthologies).  Here and there, author Taylor gets carried away with the \\"heaviness\\" of his subject, as when he writes like Ecclesiastes, or succumbs to faux-Spinoza-isms about how \\"untutored and vulgar\\" people lead impoversished lives because they can't understand metaphysics.  But otherwise the book is excellent.  If you wanted to introduce a smart teenager or college freshman to philosophy, you couldn't do better than \\"Metaphysics.\\"	2003-05-03
US	35162670	R2VLQ7VES85QA7	0135678196	314702925	Metaphysics, 4th Edition	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Introduction to Philosophy	&quot;Metaphysics&quot; has been in print and used in classrooms since the 1960s, and for good reason -- it is a clearly-written introduction to central metaphysical issues such as the mind/body problem, determinism and free will, and the existence of God.  Here and there, author Taylor seems to get carried away with the &quot;heaviness&quot; of his subject, which leads him to immitate the tone of Ecclesiastes, or to succumb to faux-Spinoza-isms about how &quot;untutored and vulgar&quot; people lead impoversished lives as a consequence of their inability to understand metaphysics.  But otherwise the book is excellent.  If you wanted to introduce a smart teenager or college freshman to the subject of philosophy, you couldn't do better than &quot;Metaphysics.&quot;	2003-05-03
US	35162670	R13CHSW5Z5H1G1	0262550423	883073626	The Elusive Quest for Growth: Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics	Books	4	43	44	N	N	No Easy Answers	An economist at the World Bank, Easterly looks back at the dismal economic record of the Third World over the last 40 years and distills lesssons to guide donors and policymakers in the future. He is at his best when dissecting failed policies such as population control or structural adjustment loans, which were embraced by development experts of the day but rested on faulty logic and flopped in practice. The rest of his book contains fascinating, nuanced discussions of how bad governance, \\"poverty traps,\\" and plain bad luck (such as terms of trade shocks) can keep poor countries trapped in vicious cycles of poverty. Many myths are exploded, such as the belief that poor nations are destined to \\"catch up\\" with rich ones, or that international investment flows to capital-poor states in an effort to find higher returns.  The text is clearly written and filled with wry humor. However, the failure to discuss how \\"Asian Tigers\\" such as Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan broke out of poverty and achieved industrial take off -- at one point, Easterly half-seriously cites \\"good luck\\" as a key explanation for their 30-year record of sustained economic growth! -- is a glaring hole and results in my rating of only four stars.	2003-04-19
US	35162670	R1B4DZGODSLV68	0300082053	411722421	For Humanity: Reflections of a War Crimes Investigator (Castle Lectures Series)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Lazy Book	Goldstone is a skillful lawyer and a dedicated human rights activist. He played a central role in South Africa's transition to democracy and in the purusit of justice in the former Yugoslavia. He has a sharp eye for bureaucratic absurdity (especially in the UN).  He knows world leaders and could have written a fascinating \\"inside\\" history. Instead, he produced this short, lightweight book comprised of little more than anecdotes and name-dropping.  It's incredible that Yale University Press saw fit to publish it. We can only hope that Goldstone will turn to writing a serious autobiography after he steps down from the South African Constitutional Court.	2003-02-12
US	35162670	R2WV9IBJQULGF2	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	3	32	38	N	N	Settling Scores with the IMF	Stiglitz has written an angry \\"insider\\" critique of the manner in which globalization was managed by the IMF and the US Treasury in the 1990s. In his view, developing countries were forced to privatize state-owned companies, cut government budgets, and open up their economies to imports and capital flows, even when these policies destroyed jobs and lowered national incomes. The result was poverty, inequality, and intensified suspicion of Western -- especially American -- motives. <br />Thailand, for example, was forced to keep interest rates high in order to reassure foreign investors.  All this policy accomplished was to drive hundreds of Thai firms into bankruptcy -- thus scaring off the investors who were supposed to be reassured. In Russia, the government was forced to privatize state-owned firms even though the lack of corporate governance laws ensured that the firms would be looted by their new private owners. In these cases and others, IMF and the Treasury applied crude free-market formulas that ignored local conditions and failed to consider the pace and sequencing of economic reforms.<br />Stiglitz is not an anti-business crackpot: he is a nobel-prize winning economist who served on the Council of Economic Advisors and at the World Bank in the 1990s. Nonetheless, the reader should be warned: this is not a balanced or scholarly book. Footnotes are almost non-existent, the narrative is disorganized and repetitive, and Stiglitz never goes into the details of decision-making or economic analysis. He makes no attempt to give the viewpoints of Treasury of the IMF.  As a result, his book comes off as one half of a two-sided debate. <br />Stiglitz' attacks on named Treasury and IMF officials suggest that he wrote the book to settle scores with bureaucratic rivals. With his economic expertise and firsthand knowledge of government and international institutions, Stiglitz could have written a great history of the 1990s. Instead he produced this super-polemical book, whose many valid points and insights get lost in the sheer volume of vitriol. A good read, though.	2003-01-14
US	35162670	R60EDCWZP9HX7	0195066529	663099003	The Landscape of History: How Historians Map the Past	Books	2	13	20	N	N	Science Envy	First delivered as lectures at Oxford, \\"The Landscape of History\\" is eloquent, short, witty -- and evanescent. The reader should know that author Gaddis does NOT describe how historians weigh evidence and construct narratives about the past on the basis of surviving documents and other data. Instead, he attempts to put the discipline of history on a solid intellectual foundation by stressing its similarities to observation-based disciplines such as astronomy and paleontology, which, like history, do not rely on repeatable laboratory experiments yet manage to achieve the status of \\"hard\\" sciences. The effort to defend history's intellectual credentials is unnecessary since our ability to make sense of past human conduct is part of human self-understanding and thus stands in no need of \\"foundations.\\" It is also farfetched: I almost put down the book for good when Gaddis outlined the affinities between biography and fractal geometry. On the other hand, the chapter on causation and counterfactuals is quite good. My advice to prospective buyers: wait for \\"The Landscape of History\\" to show up in remaindered book catalogues, which should happen by 2004. In the meantime, read some essays on historiography by Isaiah Berlin or Michael Oakeshott.	2003-01-13
US	35162670	RHRKPIKPSMRIA	0691026300	754912529	A Matter of Interpretation	Books	4	22	63	N	N	Antonin Scalia: Self-Hating Judge	The centerpiece of this excellent book is an essay called \\"Common Law Courts in a Civil Law System,\\" where Justice Scalia outlines and defends his theory of statutory and constitutional interpretation. The second part of the book has reactions from three law professors and an historian. Scalia then responds in a (testy) Afterwards that suggests that he doesn't take criticism well. <br />Scalia, a judge, believes that judges seek to grab power by covertly making laws.  Prior to the 20th century, they made laws by manipulating common law precedents in the guise of \\"interpretation.\\" The adoption of the Constitution and the growth of written laws should have ended this chicanery but didn't -- judges used the concept of \\"legislative intent\\" to evade the clear meaning of statutes and invented the notion of an \\"evolving constitution\\" to rewrite constitutional law as they saw fit.  <br />To combat these evils, Scalia wants judges to decide cases by applying the \\"original meaning\\" of a statute or constitutional clause -- a strategy he calls \\"textualism.\\" He has many intelligent things to say about statutory interpretation.  Unfortunately, his theory of constitutional interpretation is a mess. Nothing in the text of the Constitution endorses \\"textualism\\" or any other rigid interpretive approach; on the contrary, the document's many vague, open-ended clauses made it inevitable that courts would create a \\"common law\\" of the Constitution. Historical investigations into \\"original meaning\\" may not yield certain, non-manipulable results, as shown by the disagreements among historians in this area. Clauses such as the First Amendment may not have had a clear \\"original meaning\\" at all.<br />No one in 2003, not even conservative jurists, really wants the country to be ruled by the \\"original meaning\\" of the Constitution. Freezing the Constitution in the understandings of 1791 or 1868 would only lead to permanent divisive pressures to amend the Constitution in ways that would probably horrify conservatives like Scalia. The Justice knows this. He accepts the legitimacy of stare decisis as an exception to textualism, even though it requires judges to uphold \\"wrong\\" Constituional decisions. He also knows that courts grappling with novel areas like TV broadcasting will find little guidance in the \\"original meaning\\" of the First Amendment: as Scalia concedes, \\"In such new fields, the Court must follow the trajectory of the First Amendment\\" -- \\"trajectory\\" being Scalia's euphemism for a Constitutional \\"common law.\\" <br />The biggest disappointment is Scalia's failure to give an historically-informed, \\"inside\\" view of how the Supreme Court adjudicates cases, weighs political and legal factors, and adapts the Constitution to changing social circumstances in a way that preserves the Court's legitimacy. This would have given the reader a basis for deciding whether or not our affairs are sensibly arranged.  Instead, Scalia reverts to the cliche that judicial lawmaking is undemocratic. He's right, it is, big deal.  So is the Senate.  So is the electoral college. And so are many other exceptions to pure democracy that Americans have put up with over the centuries. The question is not whether a limited judicial role in lawmaking is undemocratic. The question is whether it is bad. <br />To answer that question, we need to know how institutions function and interact in practice. Scalia fails on this score, reverting to cliches rather than analysis.  True, federal judges are unelected -- but they are also above the fray of everyday politics, do their business case by case, give reasons for their decisions, and are subject to long-distance political control through the appointments process. Legislators, on the other hand, are indeed elected by the voters -- but they are also corruptible, short-sighted, subject to sleazy pressures, and unrepresentative of the electorate (how many black women are in the Congress?). Scalia should have discussed these institutional realities. Instead, he grinds an axe on behalf of a theory of adjudication that has never been followed in practice and never will be -- least of all by him.<br />\\"A Matter of Interpretation\\" is brief, thought-provoking, and jargon-free. The subject matter is important. It deserves a rating of five stars. I gave it only four because Scalia himself deserves only three.	2003-01-05
US	35162670	RRKW14XSEH34Z	0300023529	75073668	The Ages of American Law (The Storrs Lectures Series)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Notes for a Longer Book	I don't know why The Ages of American Law is regarded as a classic of American legal history.  It's clearly written but tries to cover way too much ground in a very short space (111 pages of text with large print and big margins).  Based on a series of lectures, The Ages of American Law strings together short observations on legal topics ranging from Lord Mansfield to the development of the Uniform Commercial Code.  No subject is developed in depth:  at best, the &quot;book&quot; is notes for a real book.  One of my professors at law school used to rave about this book.  It must have been because he's mentioned favorably in an endnote.	2002-12-18
US	35162670	R13T8OYWE41DG1	0691096260	174723065	The Ordinary Business of Life: A History of Economics from the Ancient World to the Twenty-First Century	Books	4	20	21	N	N	ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ	The good news about The Ordinary Business of Life is that it's a wide-ranging history of economic thought from Ancient Greek thinkers to the rational expectations theorists of the late 20th century. Backhouse doesn't idealize his subjects: he scolds modern economists for formulating abstract mathematical models that have little application to problems in the real world. <br />The bad news is that the book is totally lacking in color or personality. Aiming at comprehensive coverage, Backhouse plods from thinker to thinker and school to school.  Giants like Smith or Keynes get only 6 or 7 pages of text; lesser thinkers get only a paragraph or two. The effect is like reading a series of encyclopedia articles.<br />Non-economist readers looking for an introduction to the history of economics would be better off starting with a book like Robert Heilbroner's classic The Worldly Philosophers. That way they'll be inspired to read some more.	2002-12-10
US	35162670	R10BY9K8KUNPHG	0521011493	100105227	An Introduction to the International Criminal Court	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Ignore Bush, Read This Book	Schabas succeeds fully in introducing the reader to the main features of the new International Criminal Court (ICC). His book is a model of legal exposition. He writes clearly, situates the ICC within the history of international law, relates the substantive law of the ICC to the jurisprudence of the Yugoslavia and Rwanda tribunals, and has interesting comments on the negotiating history that led to the ICC. After finishing Schabas' book, I was struck most of all by the care and thought that went into the design of the ICC, which conforms to the main lines of international law as the law has developed since 1945. The ICC is the world's best hope for bringing war criminals, human rights violators, and genocidalists to justice. It is a disgrace that the U.S. has tried to smother it in the cradle.  (I am a U.S. State Department official.)	2002-11-02
US	35162670	R1DNQCVG5NWO3A	0801485541	546951558	Copper Crucible: How the Arizona Miners' Strike of 1983 Recast Labor-Management Relations in America (Ilr Press Books)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Killing a Union -- Phelps Dodge v. the Miners	This history of a bitter Arizona mining strike in 1983-86 is a top-notch case study of how unions were mugged by American corporations in the 1980s.  To judge by the endnotes, Rosenblum interviewed every player in the strike -- from Phelps Dodge executives and union leaders to ex-Governor Babbitt and undercover cops -- and the result is a vivid narative that weaves together labor history and political and legal analysis.  The sections on pro-management bias at the NLRB and the use of undercover police to spy on strikers are gems of investigative reporting.  Rosenblum is pro-union but he presents management's case at length and doesn't hold back from sharp criticism of the United Steelworkers leadership.  If you're interested in labor history or labor/management relations in the US, read this book.	2002-10-19
US	35162670	RXSKUV7EANWLB	0691048479	644071209	Plenty of Nothing: The Downsizing Of The American Dream And The Case For Structural Keynesianism	Books	3	2	3	N	N	AFL-CIO's View of the World	A staff economist at the AFL-CIO, Palley presents labor's views on current economic issues. His grand thesis is that globalization and the decline of US unions have shifted the balance of economic power in favor of capital and to the detriment of labor. The result has been declining wages, increased economic inequality, and soft aggregate demand -- all of which have led to lower economic growth. Palley writes about specific issues such as monetary policy, trade, and taxation.<br />On the plus side, Plenty of Nothing is clearly written. Palley is very good at demonstrating how free-market economics often masks a pro-corporation bias. At the same time, he doesn't engage with rival points of view or provide adequate empirical support for his thesis. For example, he claims ad nauseum that national income is being reallocated from labor to capital -- but his statistics don't prove this.  Instead, they show that average wages have declined over the last few decades while average profits have increased -- but this doesn't entail that labor's overall share of national income has decreased. <br />Similarly, he pooh-poohs the argument that growing inequality is caused by a skills/jobs mismatch in the labor market.  If the supply of low-skill labor and hig-skill labor is inelastic, and demand shifts from low-skill to high-skill labor, then a wage gap will open up. Palley belittles this analysis as the conventional wisdom -- but he doesn't show that it's wrong.<br />Palley also contends that the Federal Reserve deliberately keeps interest rates high in order to service the needs of Wall Street and to restrain wage increases.  Anybody who knows the latest rates on T-bills can only laugh at this.  A lot can change in only four years (Palley's book was published in 1998).  <br />To sum up, Plenty of Nothing is worth reading -- but it is not for the unwary. It is not the last word on these issues, it doesn't fairly apprise readers of ongoing debates, and doesn't gives its opponentsenough credit for intellectual honesty.	2002-09-24
US	35162670	R1X6BOU3NOH3CY	0393041484	625683320	Red Dust: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Superior Courtroom Thriller	This is an excellent courtroom thriller about torturers and victims confronting each other in the context of South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission. The plotting is superb and the story has enough twists and turns to hold the reader's interest all the way to the surprise ending(s). Certain passages -- and one key scene -- are overly cinematic but this doesn't seriously detract from the book's pleasures. That said, Red Dust is not Dostoevesky. The characters all speak alike (whether white or black, English or Afrikaaner), whites are more finely drawn than blacks, and the protagonist -- a South African practicing law in the US -- is the least necessary character in the book (basically, she gets in arguments). Disappointingly, Slovo doesn't provide much social context or use the novel to educate readers about the liberation struggle in South Africa.	2002-09-16
US	35162670	R2CCBSNUZ71355	0195715055	94508947	The Soul of a Nation: Constitution-making in South Africa	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Don't Buy This Expensive Book Unless You Are a Law Library	Lawyers shouldn't write history books. The author, Hassen Ebrahim, is an ANC lawyer who played a key role in the negotiations that resulted in South Africa's post-apartheid constitution. He could have written a gripping insider's account. Instead, he produced this leaden volume, which reduces one of the great legal/political dramas of the 20th century to a mechanical story of working groups and technical reports. There's no discussion of internal ANC debates, no analysis of the role played by individual ANC leaders, and only a sketchy account of the power politics that shaped the talks. Incredibly, the discussion of constitutional theory and content is only cursory, even though South Africa's constitution is one of the most progressive in the world. The long appendix assembles 38 legal and political documents stretching back to the peace treaty that ended the Boer War in 1902 -- but it doesn't contain the text (not even excerpts) of the current constitution!...	2002-09-05
US	35162670	R121J37TXRHLQQ	0750921935	725630519	The African National Congress (Sutton Pocket Histories)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great and Short	Dubow's book is a political history of the ANC from 1912 to 1990.  It's concise, analytical, well-written, and never loses sight of the broader South African context.  Although there isn't much in it that's new, it's ideal for readers who want an introduction to the freedom struggle in South Africa but don't have time to wade through a multi-hundred page tome.  It's a real gem.  (I'm an American diplomat stationed in South Africa.)	2002-09-04
