US	35316077	R3RLQ2C9DDX7CQ	1551668904	281402692	Honor Bound	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Well... I liked it and couldn't tell it was a re-issue!	For some reason I had been putting off reading it - and I really was hesitant when I saw the original printing date was several years ago. But my mind was changed soon after starting the book. It has a good story line and plenty of romance, too. The end could have been different but... don't get me wrong- it is still a sweet one. What's the story line?  Lucas breaks out of prison to go home after receiving word that his much-loved grandfather is on his death bed. On his way back to the reservation he makes a much needed stop for food and rest in an apartment he happens to pick out. Come to find out it belongs to a pretty blue-eyed, blonde, English, young lady- Aislinn. Oh, no! An Anglo- just who Lucas thinks of as an enemy. Aislinn is on her own trying to separate herself from wealthy, domineering parents - with no plans of starting a relationship up with any man. There is a stirring in Lucas' heart and his ... (let's say sexual desire) and instead of taking her food, car and leaving her behind, Lucas takes Aislinn as a hostage. The story gets going then. He does make it to his grandfather before Joseph dies. Lucas takes out his sorrow on Aislinn in a very real way - and then he and she has to live with it's consequences.  I'll let you read the story to find out what that is. I enjoyed it and would recommend your reading it. It's a good story...	2005-04-13
US	35316077	R2KTE55ZPG7D0B	0778320219	240424264	Hot & Bothered (Marine, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Rocket and Tori	Some what predictable but fun to read. John \\"Rocket\\" is an ex-marine who has been \\"too big for his britches\\" (literally)- real sure of himself when it came to women until he met Victoria \\"Tori\\" for a summer romance. She disappeared only for him to be hired by her (accidentally) as a PI to investigate her father's murder and the locating of her younger half-brother (Jared, who I enjoyed in the story). For 6 years John never was able to find another Tori and she him. But there's more to the story for Esme is Tori's five and a half year old little girl with eyes like John. <br /> <br />The story is a good one - I was a little disappointed in the discovery of the murderer. My 1st SA book to read and it was enjoyable! I look forward to many more.	2005-04-04
US	35316077	RHU9088KM8V2S	0743448944	92105276	Mount Vernon Love Story: A Novel of George and Martha Washington	Books	3	5	7	N	N	There's a lot to learn from reading this...	Rating this is hard for me - the development of the story and relationship between George and Martha was rather empty. Of course you have to take into consideration that the book was originally written in 1969 - BIG DIFFERENCE!  But I did enjoy reading and learning more (just like all of the other readers) about the history of our 1st president and his lady. How interesting- I didn't realize George and Martha didn't have children of their own. I had visited Mount Vernon but did not realize how George had come about acquiring it. And what about the other love in George's life - Sally. I went onto the internet and was able to bring up some letters George wrote Sally. Well, I did enjoy the story and the truthfulness to it. Now adays you don't know what to believe from the movies and books that are written to pull down the characters of our fore-fathers.	2005-04-04
US	35316077	RZRDHQIMEXAGS	0446605328	99776756	For Love Alone	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Hard to get through	Well, I must agree with other reviews- I too don't like to put a book down and I did get through this one.  But it was a struggle.  I found my head nodding many a time and I did a lot of skimming of paragraphs and pages.  The first of the book was promising but then about 1/3 of the way through things got somewhat slow and somewhat unbelievable. I liked Sophy but found her putting herself in unbelievable situations for her personality- Ives was my kind of man, but his devotion for revenge sure changed quickly after meeting Sophy. This was my first SB book and right now I'm not interested in reading another of hers, maybe a little later on I'll give one a try. But I am hesitant right now...	2005-03-29
US	35316077	R3I6FZKT1BDCOH	0449002853	346894062	In Name Only	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A sweet read!	Ian has had to put up with an awful lot over the years- a materialistic, unfaithful wife, Lily, and a domineering father-in-law, now after the sad death of his wife Ian is hoping to be able to move on, protecting his 4 children whom he loves very much and start over. But other plans are made when it is decided that his sister-in-law, Valeriana (Ana), will come and live with him and the children to help out. At first Ian is irritated but over time he comes to respect and adventually care for Ana. Ana, who is thought of as the plain Jane in the family has accepted that fact that she will always be the spinister daughter taking care of her parents, decides that she wants more out of life.  Ian and Ana are forced into marriage when her father becomes possessive of Ana's attention and accuses her of wonton behavior with Ian. Ian proposes to protect Ana's reputation. Little do they know it will become a love they have both been craving.  It was a nice break from other books I have been reading. My first JB- I will read more of hers if I can find them.	2005-03-17
US	35316077	R308HXJ6MVRULI	0739406469	680351504	The Carpenter's Lady (Large Print)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	I wouldn't say to skip this one...	The story is a good one but I do see what several of the other reviewers are complaining about. It is a reprint and you can definitely see the difference between BD's earlier and later writings. Yes, the sexual pull between the main characters isn't as intense as stories written today. But I did enjoy reading it for an easy, sweet love story that wasnt real intense.	2004-08-26
US	35316077	R3BG0S6U30ZR96	0373833458	901306093	Dr Texas (Heart of Texas, No 4)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Mr. Grouch mets Dr. Texas	Cal is bound and determined that No Woman is going to get his heart and do to it what happened a couple of years ago when he get left at the church alter. He has nothing for them and just wants to live his life on his ranch minding his own business. Jane arrives in town planning on staying the necessary 3 years to pay off her school loan and then plans to head back to California to join her uncle and adventually take over his medicine practice. But little does Cal know that there is a hole in his heart for someone to love, respect and share his life with on the ranch - and little does Jane know that the life and practice in a small town can be so rewarding. A quick read that is sweet, sweet, sweet. Hope you enjoy it!	2004-08-26
US	35316077	R15VRQS0NTARAW	0449147525	724588769	Promise Me Tomorrow	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The book is just so, so...	This is one of thost that I found on the library shelves and didn't recognize the author or realize the pub date so I thought I would give it a try. I did finish the book but wouldn't highly recomment it. The story starts out with 3 women, the McDouglas Sisters, dressed up like nuns in a jail wagon being chased by indians. The driver's been shot and it doesn't look good for them. Three men coming from different directions decide to get involve and save each woman separately. This story focuses on Anne-Marie being saved by Creed Walker, a Crow warrior who has been raised in civilization and has been hired by the Union Army with another man to deliver gold furnished by supports for the cause to win the war. Now Creed has to add delivering Anne-Marie to Mercy Flats to join her sisters to his \\"to-do\\" list. And Anne-Marie being head strong and independent has her way of thinking how it should be done. Personalities clash but over time both start carrying for each other. There are some fun and cute parts to the book - but a good part was slow and boring. Anne-Marie wasn't that bad to me and I did like Creed. The story just didn't hold my attention.	2004-08-23
US	35316077	R2KM2XS5C1A63D	0373056583	319215123	Wolf In Sheep's Clothing (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Nathan has just met his match - Harriet !	Harriet Allistair sees nothing happening in her life and needs a change - something that is of her choosing, a challenge. She has inherited her uncle's sheep farm in Montana. Now just how hard could attending a herd of sheep be? She doesn't have the support of her parents but she decides to move anyway and prove them wrong. But, boy, has she taken on a CHALLENGE! She has moved smack dab in the middle of a 2-family feud. Between the Hazards and Allistairs. Her property is in the middle of Nathan Hazard's land and he wants it bad. So bad that he is knocking at her door the first night she gets there to wanting to see Harry Allistair to make his offer to buy. Nathan didn't expect Harry to be red-headed with a figure like that either. Nathan is a know-it-all ready to convince Harriet that she can't handle it - Harriet is hard-headed enough to prove him wrong and kill herself trying. So the challenge is on. And hearts get in the way... A fun \\"one-night\\" read that will have you \\"rootin' for Harriet\\" at one time and for Nathan another. If you want a sweet and fun read- you'll enjoy this one.	2004-08-23
US	35316077	R22SIM5XCUD46V	0727822802	923700420	Moment to Moment	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I learned alot about asthma from it.	I never realized how some people have to live with severe asthma, it was an eye-opener for me. Great, sweet story- one that I sincerely enjoyed. Guess I was in the mood for a simple love story because I enjoyed this one.  After years of struggling and fighting with her family for control, Dana Mason is living on her own and working at the local library- she is doing something she has been told all her life that wasn't possible- living her own life. Since a little girl, Dana has been sheltered by her family unable to live a complete life. Finally she realized she was going to have to get control of her own life or she would have no life. So she moved into an apartment of her own, found a job, and learned to cope with her health one day at a time. Little by little she started exercising and running only to learn that it helped her handle stress and her asthma. But there were times that would set her back, like going to family gatherings and getting uptight. That's what happened the night she was running and had to stop unable to get her breath. And that's when Russ Ettinger (with his own health / life problems to deal with) run up on her only to realize that she was in trouble and couldn't breath. Have your ever met someone that in just a short time captured your attention / heart? Well, that's what happened to Russ with Dana. Dana ended up running on before Russ to return to help her and from then on Russ was like the \\"prince with the glass slipper looking for cinderella\\" - only Russ didn't have a slipper or tennis shoe. It really is a sweet story and one to enjoy.	2004-08-23
US	35316077	ROI1N3XC1SVGB	1551666928	413423666	Desperado	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Either you like it or you don't, apparently...	From the other reviews it seems to be either you like it or you don't. I have just read one other DP Book so I don't have it to compare to others- so it wasn't that that bad for me. I did notice that some of the scenes were a little \\"cheesy\\" as one reviewed called it and his calling her \\"little one\\" got old for me. But other than that the story was OK (but nothing to brag home about).  It wasn't a book to get lost in and yes it was pretty predictable. Maggie rushes to Cord's side after she has received notice that he is blind from an injury while on a secret military mission only to be sent away by Cord himself. He is sulking because he expected her to get to him sooner than she did (of course he doesn't ask what she went through to get there). Cord gets put on a guilt trip by his foreman and runs after Maggie. There is a history with Maggie Barton and Cord Romero. They grew up like brother and sister in a foster home but aren't. Come to find out both have had an attraction for the other but never acted on it. Things get heated between the 2 and feeling finally come out. In the meantime, Cord is on a hit list and now has endangered Maggie's life as well so both are on the run. So the chase is on... It's a pretty good story to read, but nothing magical for me either.	2004-08-23
US	35316077	R1T9ZKF3YSKY6Q	0310231205	232913128	In His Arms (Coming to America, Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A sweet story	Mary Emeline Malone is looking for everyone else is seeking - love, family and a place to call home. When in Ireland she gave her heart and body to a man who said that he loved her and promised to send for her once he got settled in America with a job. They were to be married and live happily ever-after but the situation changed when Mary discovered that she was pregnant and couldn't wait to hear from him. She set off for America on her own to search for her to-be-husband only to discover once she arrived that he had already married another and had died in a miner's accident. Now Mary is left in New York to raise her baby boy on her own. But when an employer makes advances towards her with plans to make her his mistress, Mary does the only thing she knows to do and that is defend herself from him by hitting him on the head one afternoon when interrupted from cleaning in his study. Now she fears going to jail for murder and rushes to get her baby and head get out-of-town on the next train. While on the train, she meets up with a Madame who owns a saloon in Whistle Creek, Idaho but is dying of cancer. Trusting her instincts, Mary is offered a place to live and a job as bookkeeper at the saloon and Mary agrees. The first person Mary sees when she gets off the train is Sheriff Carson Barclay of Whistle Creek and Mary realizes that she is going to be running from the law the rest of her life. She has to avoid the sheriff or possibly be arrested for murder. Sheriff Carson Barclay has nothing for the saloon/whore house and \\"sees red\\" when he realizes that the beautiful woman with a son thats getting off the train is a new \\"girl\\" for the madame. But no matter how hard he tries to stay away- Carson is drawn to her only to lose his heart to a head strong woman with an Irish lilt and a past that is soon to catch up with her. <br /> <br />It was my first RLH book to read and is a good one though a little slow at times. The characters came to life for me and I really liked Maryand Carson but I also enjoyed the sub-characters as well. Yes, its a good story and one I would recommend it to read. <br />	2004-08-23
US	35316077	R3Q9YXA4ZA4MIN	0380820900	649990034	Stealing the Bride (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	But, did you have to make Diana wait soooo long?	I enjoyed the story and really liked Diana and Temple, both- but EB was wrong in making the time line soooo long - why not 3 or 5 years instead of 9 to 10? <br /> <br />This was the first EB for me to read and I definitely enjoyed her talent. I am sorry that I didn't know to read One Night of Passion first, though - but didn't find it a stumbling block for me. I was able to follow the story and get into the characters well enough.  Lady Diana Fordham lost her heart to Marquis of Templeton (Temple for short) a long time ago. She had hope he would notice but he never seemed to come around. At one time she decided to move on and marry his cousin only to withdraw her agreement for engagment. Her heart wasn't in it. Now ten years later Diana sets up her own elopement with a scandrel of the Ton and everyone is shocked. Her father offers her hand in marriage to the first man that is able to bring her back. Temple has no design to go get her until his secret employer orders him to go get her and see that she is married as soon as possible. He leaves with no plans on being the one that she marries. Boy, is he fooled! Things get to hopping! Temple discovers that the French are after Diana with plans of their own, Diana's fiance is murdered, and Temple is accused of doing it. Oh... the story gets even better. In the middle of all that is going on, Diana forces Temple to admit his love for her. I think my favorite part is when Diana shows up at a Masquarade Ball dressed as a greek goddess only wearing the sheer curtains from Temple's rented room drapped over her naked body and a face mask. Boy, that caused a stir! ha, ha!!! A good read with romance and excitment to keep the story going. <br /> <br />	2004-08-23
US	35316077	R1D3OWZ71397J2	044900516X	625623250	Silver Lining	Books	4	3	4	N	N	There's more to the story than it being just a SPOON...	Well, I enjoyed it and would recommend it. Yes, it has some problems and even starts out unbelievable but I had to remind myself that that is some of the fun in romance stories. And you know I almost hate telling you the story- incase I ruin it for you. So I won't. I will tell you that the story starts in a mining camp of about 100 men and 1 woman (&quot;Low Down&quot; short for Louise)who has been thought of as one of the men for so long that it is almost impossible to consider her being a woman. An epidimic goes through the camp and it is because of her nursing skills that many of the men survive. Now the men want to thank her from the bottom of their hearts and what better way than to give her something that her heart desires - no matter what it is. This is where it gets sticky... and where Max McCord really gets involved.  <br />  <br /> I enjoyed the story and at times felt my heart go out to the characters involved at the time. I enjoy a story that I can truly get lost in and feeeeeeel what's going on. Louise has never loved or been loved and has felt empty and alone in return. She tries real hard not to have feelings but they come through- she's great. Max has his life allll planned out and all because of a draw of a marble it all changes- that quickly. He is torn by the outcome but tries to take all into consideration. I am impressed! I don't know if I would have done what Max did- I probably would have said &quot;No way! Forget this! I've got other plans. I am headed home!&quot; And then he has to live with his decision! But, man, does it work out! Little did he know the outcome (and don't you cheat by reading ahead -or worse, yet, the end!) And then there's Max's fiancee, Philadelphia (couldn't MO have thought up an easier name) -her future and feelings to sort through. I probably would have been more hateful than she was - I might have pulled some hair! And shown them a true &quot;cat fight.&quot; ha, ha!!! Then there are others in the story- Phil's father, Max's mother, sister and, oh my, don't forget his brother. <br />  <br /> MO is a great story teller! Yes, I would recommend it and hope you enjoy it	2004-08-03
US	35316077	R1S90TKHXQT1OB	0671744623	872452071	The Heiress	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A disfigured man, a beautiful heiress, a spoiled cousin...	What a combination! And Jamie has been hired by the heiress' father to escort them to her betroth's homeland. What a trip! In the meantime, Jamie's sisters have put the pressure on Jamie to turn the heiress' head and capture her heart (rather her money) in matrimony because the family is broke! Feeling responsible- Jamie sets out to do so- not realizing that Axia (the heiress) has traded places with her cousin, Frances, so she can experience freedom and life it's self before she is tied down in marriage. So the whole time Jamie is &quot;wooing&quot; her- he is courting the wrong woman. And Axia falls for Jamie but is unable to tell him without revealing her position. There is a little bit of everything in this book - adventure, romance, surprise, entertainment, etc. Truly worth reading - it's a good read!	2004-08-03
US	35316077	R20U2YRO6V0I80	006050353X	847078615	Her Scandalous Intentions	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Wrong places at the wrong time?...	Charlotte tends to be minding her own business but James just won't let her - constantly putting her in jeopardy of losing her life. James, who is trying to catch a traitor working towards the Napoleon cause (possily his own wicked cousin) uses Charlotte as bait- not knowing exactly how she fits in the picture. So the adventure begins- Charlotte discovers through James' carelessness that there is a betrayal going on and thinking that James is the traitor, leaning towards the Napoleon cause, she gets involved. It is wild. And even though it would be so easy to &quot;throw Charlotte's reputation to the wind&quot;, James is too galliant of a man to do so. To protect Charlotte from talk of the Ton after being found in her bedroom, James announces in front of everyone at a house party that they are betrothed (when they don't even know each other). He figures that he will make a peace offering to her, move her off, let the talk die down and move on about his business. But those that know Charlotte has other plans- and they will do what ever it takes to protect her reputation even if it means forcing James to truly marry her. This is where the fun begins - and yes, my favorite scene is Charlotte's confrontation with James ex-mistress. Of course, Charlotte comes out being the true elegant lady! James is dashing and every lady's dream of a lover/husband. But Charlotte is nothing to cough at herself. <br />  <br /> Yes, there are inconsistances but there is plenty of suspence and romance to over-shadow them. It's a good read.	2004-08-03
US	35316077	R1H0SCOSXFNEOB	0804119902	884146767	Prairie Moon	Books	4	5	6	N	N	It was different... but I liked it.	It had a different story line to it - and I liked it. Della had struggled for years with the death of her husband, Clarence (a rebel soldier during the CW). She never was able to tell him her true feelings before his death to apologize for the tone in her last letter to him. Not knowing if he even got it. Then James Cameron, a gun-drawin' lawman, show up bringing up memories all over again. James, who was with her husband when he died, brings Clarence's last letter to Della along with all of the letters that Della had written Clarence and their wedding picture found on his body, forcing her to resolve her feelings. Only there is some misconception here because Della is thinking James was a friend of Clarence's when actually he was the yankee soldier that killed Clarence and has lived with the guilt of it all these years. And with all of this going on - James is staying with Della on her farm, sleeping in the barn, seeing how poorly she is living. He starts helping out and they get close spending time together. It is the sweetest story. For me it was an intense story with a twist at the end. I enjoyed it and hope you give it a try.	2004-08-03
US	35316077	RZRP8SSL28U0D	0821768387	370326632	Every Move She Makes	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Who is writing those nasty letters?	Reed Conway was convicted 15 years ago for the murder of his abusive step-father. Out on parole, he has just arrived back in his hometown determined to find the real murderer. And, boy is everyone watching his every move! Including the murderer! Senator Web Porter, who was DA at the time of the murder and was instrumental in prosecuting Reed, has a daughter who is now judge- Ella Porter. Ella was attracted to Reed in school when Reed had the reputation of &quot;bad boy/bad news.&quot; Reed noticed Ella but knew she was off limits due to her daddy. But now the table has changed - Reed and Ella are in their thirties, are mature adults able to think for themselves, and, boy, is the attraction strong. Too strong to resist! To complicate things - 15 years ago to get back at Porter, Reed wrote a couple of explicit sexual letters to Ella from prison. Well, now that Reed is back in town Ella has started receiving letters again - but Reed isn't writing them. The &quot;suspect of murder&quot; list grows in leaps and bounds - it turns out to be a &quot;peyton place&quot; southern town where everyone is involved with everyone's wife and is trying to cover something up. There is sizzling romance, secondary characters to keep it from getting dull, and suspence of &quot;who did it.&quot; I enjoyed it, my first BB book to read and I will read more of her books. I thoroughly enjoyed Reed. Ella seemed whimpy a little. It was wierd her living with her parents at her age and holding a such an important position as Judge. Would I recommend it? Yes!	2004-06-30
US	35316077	R18LDIYR1S08LR	0743411250	940771299	The Woman Next Door	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A &quot;suburban melodrama&quot;	How silly we humans can be at times and how we cause our own anxiety! Can't you just see it happening? You live in a cul-de-sac where you know all of the neighbors and their comings and goings-one big &quot;happy&quot; family with the cookouts, etc. But there is one that doesn't quit fit in- the young attractive widow that keeps to herself. There is just something about her- a kind of helplessness- that draws the men in the neighborhood to run to her &quot;rescue&quot; whether its plumbing problems or taking the trash out to the street. You all speculate about her life and when she starts showing that she is pregnant- WOW! How can that be when she's a widow, doesn't ever have company and never seems to go anywhere. OOOh! Then to complicate things some of the marriages are going through difficult times and insecurities start showing up. I can see it happening... all of the women start questioning little mishaps at home and the things that the men say, looking for hidden meaning. <br />For me, I felt like an observer in the neighborhood and it was all so believable to me. I enjoyed it, had hoped for a little more in the end. But it was good. So if you want a little something different, try it- yes, I would recommend it.	2004-06-30
US	35316077	R1L07Y1RTO7ARO	0380795809	562885779	Outsider (The Men of Pride County, No 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	My first RW to read and enjoyed it!	This was one of those in the library that you look at with the hunk on the front and at the time you are weak, maybe a little bored, and say why not- thinking it will be a typical rogue vs. weak heroine romance. But I was pleasantly surprised and will look for more RW books. <br />Post-Civil War... Starla comes back to home to find a lot of changes- and it doesn't feel like home any more. The biggest one is a Yankee now owns the local bank (he's a friend of her best friend's husband). In a southern town- that is unheard of. He hasn't been accepted as one of the town's folk yet, probably never will be though he continues to try to help the town of Pride try to rebuild during the post-civil war times. If only the town's people would give him a chance and trust his word. He's crippled so that doesn't help - a civil war injury so he uses a cane and crutches. Some look on him as being weak due to his injury. But he is all man without a weak bone in his body. His dream is to walk down the street with beautiful Starla on his arm but the bullet lodge next to his spine will keep that from happening. Knowing he is taking a chance on getting his heart broken- Hamilton offers to wed Starla to protect her honor. Hesitantly she agrees knowing she needs a strong man for show and protection - strictly a marriage of convenience on her part. But the arrangement wreaks havoc on both of them! Hamilton is both, strong and vulnerable. He doesn't want pity from anyone, especially Starla. Starla doesn't want to have to depend on anyone especially a yankee but then she gets to know the man in Hamilton and finds out he is true to his word and she loses her heart. A marriage that is of convenience turns into a union of passion and love. A great read- a keeper for me. Now I am off to find the other books in the series.	2004-06-29
US	35316077	R1JNTZGUBFDM8G	1551666499	753087722	The Captain's Woman	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This had a little bit of everything in it	Victoria has everything a girl could want- loving, devoted, wealthy parents, a job as social writer for her daddy's paper (the Cheyenne Tribune), friends, etc. Everything except the love of one Captain Sam Garrett who has looked at Victoria as a spoiled young girlfriend of his niece. She is determined to get Sam's attention and works hard on it- then one day she accidently ends up in the middle of a brawl, get's hurt, and is swept up by Sam only to be caught in an uncompromising position. Propriety calls for Sam to ask Victoria to marry him and because of her longing to have him she accepts thinking her love for him is enough for both. In the meantime, Sam's childhood sweetheart Widow Mary Prendergrest comes to town causing Sam's heart to get all twisted up. He's always thought they would end up together. But, now there's Victoria... <br />Sounds like a typical romance doesn't it - well, that's when things start happening in fast mode. Sam took leave from the army due to his father's health & family needs. But the desire to serve is still there and grows stronger until one day war breaks out in Cuba (the Spanish/American War) and Sam finds himself an officer of Teddy Roosevelt's Rough Riders, in Tampa, FL to be dispatched to Cuba. This is where Sam takes for granted that Victoria will sit back in Cheyenne, WY planning their wedding while awaiting Sam's return. Boy, is he surprised when she shows up as a war reporter along way from home. He is furious and decides to change their relationship to make Victoria realize she is now responsible to him (and can't just have her way with her parents every time she wants to do something). Before he can put her on a train back home the riders are ordered to leave for Cuba. Victoria is head strong but actually plans on going back to Cheyenne as told to be Sam until the excitment of war gets in her blood along with seeing Mary P. and learning that she is going on to Cuba as a nurse. Victoria finds herself on a boat sailing to Cuba as well. What better way than to get the news first hand. She experiences war first hand alright! - wounded soldiers, disease, death, the unknown of where and how Sam is. And then there's Mary and the feelings Sam has for her keeps showing up. <br />Well, Victoria once a fiesty, young, foolish girl grows up in a hurry into a mature, respected, and loved woman. She leaves home her writing confined to the society page and the captain's heart belonging to another to return as a respected war-correspondent journalist with the captain's heart in her hands. But it wasn't easy - she had to work for it ALL!<br />It's a good book to be enjoyed- there's history for the history romance reader, too. The only criticism I would have is that I wish there had been more to Sam and Victoria's romance. Don't get me wrong. What was there was GOOD. I would just have liked more. And I did get frustrated with Sam turning to Mary- my heart felt went to Victoria when she experienced disappointment. Of course that was the purpose. And the ending is great! Definitely a good read!	2004-06-29
US	35316077	R2JNXCN0UFELUI	0312962479	788562587	Dangerous Passions	Books	5	3	3	N	N	There was definitely passion!	It is true that a lot of times how you rate and feel about a book - depends on the mood you were in when reading it. There are times I am just not in the mood for regency (I need a change)so I move on to something else. After saying that, I guess I was just in the mood for a good regency book full of danger, passion, murder suspects, passion, hidden childhood secrets, passion, etc. because I enjoyed the story between Elisa Tuber and Colonel Adrian Kingsland. Elisa is looking for her brother's murderer. Since it is not acceptable for a young single woman to travel by herself, Elisa takes the false identity as her father's widow (her mother) to be able to travel throughout Austria from England without trouble.<br />Colonel Adrian Kingsland (Lord Wolvermont) has a career in the military and is well liked amongst the women. But he hasn't settled down due to childhood secrets that hinder him from giving his heart away. His and Elisa's paths cross and he is taken by her. He puts the pressure on her and won't give up. Though a familiar story amongst regency books, this is one that caught my attention in the beginning and was fast-paced for me. I enjoyed the ride and look forward to future KM books. I hope you will give this one a try.	2004-06-25
US	35316077	R1LUOO1RAW0X69	0061032093	602976816	Breathing Room	Books	3	1	1	N	N	There's room for more...	I will probably get some negative votes on this one but... I just had a hard time getting through it. I didn't care for the main characters- he was flaky and she was difficult. I, too liked sub-characters Tracy and Larry, better than the main ones. Ren is a dashing playboy- a \\"stuck on himself\\" movie star that needs to find himself. Isabel Favor is a \\"self-help guru\\" and author of The Four Cornerstones of a Favorable Life. She thinks her life is perfect until it falls apart. They both end up in Italy to get away from it all - at the same villa. Ren owns the villa but Isabel refuses to leave since she has put down a large deposit for it in good faith. There's a past here. They've met before. They had a rather unusual one night stander of which both want to forget. Surprise! They are now sharing the same villa. Sparks and tempers start to fly! Meanwhile, something is going on around the villa- Isabel is trying to be run off by the villagers. Why? I'm not going to tell incase you want to read it for yourself. Hey, you might enjoy it. It just wasn't for me. Too silly at times.	2004-06-25
US	35316077	R3692OAT9TKMBU	0373077599	664899351	Frisco's Kid (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	His story is a little different from the rest...	Alan (Frisco) Francisco's story is a little different from the other's in the Navy SEALS. Frisco had serious knee injury during his last mission. He has spent the last 5 years in the Naval hospital having numerous surgeries and rehab trying hard to get his knee back into shape so he can rejoin the SEALS. And hs has just been told that it's as good as it's going to get. He is released from the hospital and retired from the Navy (unless he is willing to take that instructor's position that they are holding open for him). He heads to a condo he purchased years ago- the only place he has to call \\"home\\" if that's what you want to call it. An apartment with a bed, table and couch- dirty clothes from his last visit over 5 years ago still in the corner, and a 6 pack of beer in the frig. Boy, is he down in the dumps. What is in his future? Well, all he knows is that he doesn't need anyone's help (he thinks).<br />The apartment that has been empty for the past 5 years, next to Mia Summerton, has a light on in it all of a sudden. And Mia is curious. She's a teacher at the local high school and single - and did I mention a \\"knock-out\\" to look at with black hair down to her thighs. She gets up the nerve to knock on the door of the apartment only to have a 6'tall, muscular man using a cane in the worst of moods answer it. His charms are definitely not coming through right now. In fact, I think it was lost in the whiskey bottle laying on the floor. The wrong type of sparks fly between Frisco and Mia, Mia trying to be friendly and Frisco thinking he is none of her business.<br />Then Frisco's sister shows up on crutches herself only to leave her 5 year old daughter on his door steps while she admits herself into a detox center. Now Frisco who can't even hardly take care of himself has a 5 year old to take care of. Things get complicated - but fortunately Mia is there to see that help is needed during the impossible times and is still willing to offer a helping hand. Times like justgetting the groceries up the stairs to the apartment. Frisco can bearly get himself up the stairs much less carrying groceries with him. Well the story is a good one. It really deals with Frisco's difficulty in accepting that he is going to have to move on... active Navy SEAL is no longer an option and Life is NOT over yet! Unless he wants to end it in a whiskey bottle like his family have done. And Mia sure doesn't need to get involved with someone who has the problems psychological like Frisco has - the physical can be overcome... But she is too good-hearted to just sit and let him suffer and watch his niece suffer too, because she has been uprooted and is unsure of life now. The story is very moving- don't you know that has happened to a lot of veterans that have had to return home with injuries. It is sweet story- one of pride and understanding. Then there is always an underlying story, too. A guy named Dwayne comes looking for Frisco's sister that claims she owes him BIG BUCKS. And he wants his money back now with interest. He roughs Frisco up and claims he'll be back. Now what is the story about Dwayne? Frisco has to recover from knee injuries as well as find out that his niece, Mia, and he are in danger if they don't deal with Dwayne and his hit men. It is something that Frisco can't handle himself in the end and he request his SEAL Buddies to assist him. That's fun seeing all of the guys get back together. Anyway...<br />It's a great story and one worth reading as well as sharing with others.	2004-06-24
US	35316077	R20LDF6GT2ES3C	0515099511	586249192	The Hellion	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Rachel &amp; Tommy Lee's love was meant to be	Probably everyone knew of a Rachel and Tommy Lee in school that were just meant to be--- where one was you saw the other and you just knew that they would end up together. But then later you heard of a tragedy that kept them apart and it broke your heart because their love had been so sweet and pure.<br />Yes, this story was predictable but, you know, I read it just to see what they had to go through to finally have one another in the end. Knowing LS's writing, I knew it wasn't going to be an easy or smooth ride. LS can do that- she can take a realistic situation- bring it to life in front of your eyes. It probably isn't - well, in fact, I know it's not one of my favorite LS books but it is still worth reading and enjoying. One of my favorite scenes was the clothing left in the pool and &quot;Dear Ole' Daddy&quot; seeing them. Read it and enjoy it!	2004-06-22
US	35316077	RCQJ4LETV8YA2	0373218079	378253967	Texans at Heart	Books	4	10	12	N	N	"3 in 1" Romances	I did not realize until I read the other reviews that this was a reissuing of earlier books by DP. I like DP's writing and I enjoyed the 3 stories- they were easy reading, sexy but not in great detail, romances that dealt with 3 Texans who were \\"women haters\\" due to earlier relationships- but the right woman comes along and makes their hearts go pitter-patter whether they want their hearts to or not. They try to fight the attraction and are even ugly about it at times but finally give in and accept the love attraction. I really agreed with the reviewer that wrote \\"Virginal heroines and sexy brooking heros who... behave like jerks ...realize they cannot live without the woman... then work like the devil to win their women back.\\" Gosh that really does sum it up. But they are good stories though the heros get sloppy and silly at times. I did enjoy it for a change and recommend it to read.	2004-06-10
US	35316077	RW6YIJNHH0LMZ	0440237130	25356256	Whirlwind Affair	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Continuation of Whirlwind Wedding	Allie promised Elizabeth that she would be with her for the arrival of her first born. So Allie Brown arrives from America to England to visit her bestfriend from childhood Elizabeth Matthews Jamison (from WWW). She is a widow and has been in mourning for 3 years now and while she is in England she has plans to return a mysterious ring, more than likely stolen by her thieving husband. Elizabeth remembers Allie as being happy and exciting- always with a smile on her face. But when Robert Jamison (from WWW) arrives to bring Allie home from the ship he finds a woman that shows nothing but sadness and disappointment in life. Robert has decided that it is time to bring a bride home himself after his brother, Austin, brings Elizabeth home (in WWW). And after little time together, Robert decides Allie is for him but how can he convince Allie of that when she has pledge to never again risk her heart to another. And then there is the ring... and someone that wants to murder Allie over that ring because Allie knows more than she is suppose to about her dead husband's dealings. So the story gets deep- the plot thickens.<br />It is a sweet and loving story about the passion Allie and Robert share, along with the suspense over the ring. Definitely and recommended read!	2004-06-04
US	35316077	R16GAPBB0IAR5N	1551666804	962070285	Forever Blue (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Mmmm... Blue could be my favorite color!	Know what I mean?!!! A &quot;good lookin' devil he is&quot; too! And he is returning to his hometown for the wedding of his step-brother to his own high-school sweetheart. Boy, are feelings in a turmoil. He hasn't been back in years (he left straight out of high school for the Navy and became a Seal) and really doesn't want to be going back now. But Blue realizes that he needs to be there to support his brother even if the circumstances are awkward.<br />Blue McCoy was the guy that Lucy Tait drowled over in high school. But he never noticed her then- just thought of her kind of as the kid sister. But he notices her now. Just a short time after arriving to town- Blue runs across Lucy Tait, now one of the town's police officers. Boy, has she changed. And to her he has just gotten better. Blue has to attend a wedding dinner and doesn't want to go by himself so he ask Lucy to go- a dream come true for her. Wouldn't any girl &quot;die&quot; to have her high school crush show up good looking and ask her out! You've got that right! Sure they would! Of course, everyone is looking for the reaction the first time Blue comes in to the dinner hall and sees his old sweetheart. Everyone thought they would end up together. He did, too. But she changed plans and went after the brother. That's ok- Blue now has eyes for Lucy but they can't explore their feelings for one another for long- when Blue's brother comes up murdered and Blue is a suspect. Matters get more intense with Lucy is put on Blue's case as investigative officer. Everyone thinks Blue went for revenge on his step-brother but Lucy knows better. So now Blue's future in the Navy Seals is in jeopardy along with Lucy's heart. But if Blue didn't do it- who did? Great book! Great passion! Great suspense! Can't wait to get another Navy Seal story...	2004-06-04
US	35316077	RC9JKF1SFWUA0	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderful humor along with the passion	Elizabeth Matthews is from America, now living with her aunt. They are visiting Bradford Hall, invitation from the Dowager Duchess. It is at the Bradford Ball that she meets Austin Randolph Jamison, Duke of Bradford, while retrieving a kitten out of a tree in the garden to safety. It is during this time that Elizabeth reveals to Austin her vision of his thought to be dead brother William is alive but injured. Austin is alarmed and suspicious of Elizabeth for it is just recent that Austin has received blackmail information on William that will disgrace the whole family along with William. Questioning her vision and suspisious of her possibly being involved in the blackmail-Austin is determined to learn more of Elizabeth. But as he spends more time with her, he learns of her innocence, warmth, and generosity. Something happens and Elizabeth saves Austin's life resulting in their being found out in compromising position-to save face Austin is to marry her in a &quot;whirlwind wedding&quot;. It is to be a marriage for looks only ! ? But things don't go as planned. There is wonderful humor all throughout the story and it is full of warm. Some of the suspense is figured out before time - but overall a good story. My first book to read of JA's and I look forward to more. A recommended read for sure.	2004-06-04
US	35316077	R2K7FBN7RHUTKU	080411952X	480474378	The Unsung Hero (Troubleshooters, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Might be my favorite in the Navy Seal Series	I agree! WOW! Another winner from SB for me! I thought Tom Paoletti to be sexy as \\"all-get-out!\\" and Kelly Ashton perfect for his equal! This is one of those books that has a half-a-dozen things going on at one time. You can't get bored with it and the tension between the girl and guy is sooo strong! You can't wait to see what is going to happen next.<br />Kelly Ashton is the girl-next-door from Tom's youth who is now a pediatrician that has returned home to stay with her father while he is slowly dying. She is still on call but trying not to work as many hours so she can be home for her dad. During their youth Tom was the \\"bad boy\\" that all the girls were crazy for- the one with a reputation. Kelly was a good bit younger but had a crush on him hoping that one day he would look at her as a young lady instead of a tom-boy. She had it so bad that she would climb up into her tree house which had a perfect view into Tom's bedroom. Imagine the view she had. ha, ha!!! Well, she is no longer the tom-boy but a beautiful, intelligent, professional woman who can hold her own- but still wants to hold Tom Paoletti.<br />Tom Paoletti is Lt. of the Navy Seals. He is on medical leave after receiving a head injury during one of their recent missions. So he heads home to his uncle's house where he was raised- pretty much the only family he has except for his sister and her teenage daughter. Tom has changed too from the infamous \\"bad boy\\" to a well respected position of LT. over the Navy Seals. When Kelly discovers that Tom is back in town after years of being gone and still single- and Tom sees Kelly for the first time in years, my how she has grown, and discovers she is unattached (divorced) sparks start to fly! And there is no one-sidedness to this relationship. They can both carry their own. But neither wants to have a serious relationship--- they think! Tom because of his career and Kelly because of her career and heart. But the passion is just too strong - feels there were there a long time ago but were put away now come to surface.<br />Then you have everything going on around them like - Tom's uncle and Kelly's Dad are best friends and having to deal with the issue of death in the near future. Then there's Tom's niece finding a someone that cares for her and not just her well stacked body. Then there's the terrorist that Tom recognizes who is wanted by the FBI - what is he doing in a small New England town. And it just goes on from there. There's not a dull moment.<br />Well, it's just a book you need to read for yourself. A keeper for me! Now I am looking for Frisco Kid's story. After his name and circumstances being mentioned by Tom (Unsung Hero), Blue (Navy Blue, and Joe (Prince Joe) I want to see what his story is- bet it will be a good one!	2004-06-04
US	35316077	RHTQZ6K7FXKX8	1551660806	507369571	Playboy And The Widow	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A "fun & quick" read!	If you want a read that is easy, sweet, realistic and just a good story- this is it. It is one of DM's earlier books but I did enjoy it. I found it on the library shelf and thought why not give it a try. Glad I did. It is a story of Diana, a struggling widow raising 2 preteen daughters. She just isn't ready to give up the ghost of her dead husband- the thought of meeting and dating others is just not appetizing to her. By accident Diana meets Cliff when Cliff comes over to help with a plumbing matter. Cliff was at the neighbors' house when Diana called for help. Cliff is a playboy- good looking, has money, a prestigious job and dates models- no doubt about it and has NO plans to change his lifestyle. But there is just something simple, sweet, and desirable about Diana - and her girls. And Cliff can't get enough... He realizes that he's not happy with his life the way things are. Diana on the other hand has to decide whether Cliff is worth taking a risk of being hurt- and how is he going to fit in with the girls?	2004-06-04
US	35316077	R2Q23IYZ9XJD7	0446603082	133389439	Sweet Anger	Books	4	22	24	N	N	It wasn' that bad of a story...	I was in the mood for something quick- fast, something that didn't take a whole lot of thinking. And I agree that some of it seemed silly and unrealistic (I guess I have come to expect that of earlier books)but overall I did enjoy it. Kind of like it served its purpose for something enjoyable that didn't take a lot of thinking- easy reading. And I do agree that Hunter did fall for Kari too quickly. But cupid can knock one off it's feet rather quickly- I've seen that done myself. What's the story? Kari Wynne is a reporter. She is married to a city councilman who at one time was well-respected throughout the city dies in a car accident. DA Hunter McKee has found some serious dirt on Kari's husband, destroying his reputation and causing doubt and anguish for Kari. Now Kari wants to find out what was true and/or false in her marriage along with the mysterious death of her husband. Having to deal closely with Hunter McKee- you know they say there is a fine line between love and hate. Well, line gets crosses from hate to passion and love. Well, I am giving it a rating of 4 stars when it really desired a 31/2 but I just don't feel like it was as bad as other reviewers feel.	2004-06-04
US	35316077	R2OBTIZDA8IFX	0743419154	759611923	The Fire Inside	Books	5	1	1	N	N	No sparks flying here - it was an all out FIRE!	What a romance! It was my first KM book to read and I look forward to more. There is tension from the very beginning of their story and it grows! Kitt and Clay go way back. Clay is the typical hunk of a hero- a regency rake all the way. While Kitt is strong willed, beautiful, independent, and reckless. There's always been some taunting going back & forth between them. But Kitt goes too far dressing up like a boy and sneaking off only to get caught and locked up in her up in her room by her father.  He declares either she gets married or he is sending her away.  So Clay and Kitt are forced to marry due to being found in a compromising position. And instead of things smoothing out for them the tension just gets stronger. Clay is hoping to settle Kitt down by marriage but Kitt (in her mind) feels that Clay could never be happy and faithful to only one woman. Kitt has a secret in her past that keeps her from giving herself totally to Clay. But Clay is willing to wait- the sexual tension just gets stronger now. Actually it has been strong all the way through the book. ha, ha!!! There are twists and turns all throughout the story. And the story drew me in from the very beginning. I really enjoyed it. It's a keeper for me.	2004-06-02
US	35316077	R3L7M0DSFTVLNX	0446610569	553612546	The Heartbreaker (The Chandler Brothers, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mr. Calm &amp; Cool looses his heart!	This is the last of a fun sequence of the charming Chandler Brothers. But you don't have to read the other 2 to enjoy this one. Chase Chandler is the calm and cool older brother that the family looks up to. Ever since the death of his father, Chase has taken the responsibility of his family serious- looking after his mother and 2 brothers and hasn't taken out the time for romance. Well, the brothers are now married and mom is pushing for Chase to find someone to get serious about but that just isn't in his plans... Until Sloane Carlisle comes to town. Chase has been asked to be the &quot;protector&quot; of a daughter of a Senator, who is running for vice-president, that is coming to town.  She has just discovered a family secret and torn about it. Chase doesn't have a problem with this and even sees a story in the making - until he realizes that Sloane is the same person he had a one nighter with a while back. A rather &quot;fast and furious&quot; &quot;spur of the moment&quot; one nighter! There is plenty of romance to go along with the suspence and humor. And if you enjoy this one, you'll want to pick up the other 2 books about the Roman and Rick. They are fun, too!	2004-06-02
US	35316077	R1JCK1JGSM96FD	0743456335	753332767	A Man to Call My Own : A Novel (Lindsey, Johanna)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Could have been a whole lot better...	My review is going to be right in there with everyone elses. There have been times that I read reviews and then read the book and wondered if they read the same thing I did. But this time I have to agree with others. I did finish the book but it was just ok. The characters aren't well developed. I got tired of the twin Amanda being so hateful and whinny. Why couldn't the other characters see past Marian wearing the thick glasses for disquise and being bullied by Amanda. There was too much repetition in phrases through out the book. The story was slow moving- I skipped pages really bad just to get through it and when I did I didn't miss anything. Sorry, but I won't recommend reading it- too many other good ones out there.	2004-06-02
US	35316077	R6PAU3Y395W6P	0553583565	40003658	Stealing Heaven (Medievals)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Must Read On My List!	Boy, if the other reviewers are right and MH's other books are better than this- I can't wait. There was passion in it from the very beginning to end!<br />Marcus of Anglesmore's holdings have been restored back to him by King Edward and to help hold on to Wales, Edward has arranged for Marcus to wed the youngest daughter of the Welsh chieftain Llygad. Marcus is beside himself, wanting to rebel- he hasn't even seen the girl much less spent time with her. He tries to see her only to be turned away at her door. So while brooding, he climbs into her private garden only to encouter a woman who he thinks is her. He finds her to be delightful, intelligent, beautiful... there is sudden attraction and many stolen kisses. Marcus is beside himself- what luck... Until he discovers that instead of encountering Genith, he actually met and fell for Nesta, the oldest daughter who is her father's heir, said to be King Edward's whore, and was married off to an elderly Scottish lord. And you thought you had problems! With both having agenda's of their own how are they going to find a solution to the problem that they now desire one another? Marcus is loyal to England. Nesta is dedicated to her country and it's cause. There's conflict for sure. Boy, you are in for a ride! The story is a great, excellent read. The main characters are both strong and intelligent. The passion is strong and I vote this one to be must read! It was my first MH book to read and I will definitely look for more.	2004-06-02
US	35316077	R3HBC07P5IRRIT	0553582216	27526243	By Possession (Medievals)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A  &quot;couldn't put it down&quot; Book !	From other reviews this is an either &quot;really liked it&quot; or a &quot;could do better&quot; book- but I REALLY LIKED IT.  Addis de Valence was thought to have been dead but returns from the Crusades to take up his rightful place as Lord of his birthplace of which his step-brother has taken over.  Addis also wants to reclaim his position as father to a son that he hasn't seen since an infant. The son was put in the hands of a bondswoman- hidden away from powerful hands that wanted to destroy the boy, and still does when they discover the boy is still alive. The bondswoman- Moira Falkner, was given her freedom by Addis' dying father but continued to work at the castle. Addis is attracted to Moira doesn't realize there is a connection but them. All he knows is that he wants her there for him and refuses to recognize her freedom but demands that she move back into the castle. But there is a connection- a very strong one. The electricity between Addis and Moira is powerful. Addis can't marry Moira because of her status in life but Moira will not be his mistress. The story will keep you turning pages. It is a good romance and I feel the story won't disappoint you.	2004-05-28
US	35316077	R1ZDHZ3WNZMQW1	0380800195	365140139	My Man Pendleton	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Pendleton is a keeper!	It is down to the last 2 months of the 2 years set aside for Kit to find a husband before her mother's fortune is divided amongst charities. If she marries the fortune stays in the family in the hands of Kit's father &amp; brothers. So the pressure is one. Up to now Kit hasn't found that TRUE Love she's been looking for. And if Dad hadn't run off all of her other romances this wouldn't have happened. He didn't think any were good enough at the time. It's a different story now.<br />Pendleton is out to prove to everyone, especially his ex-wife and himself, that he can make it and be successful once again. He had it all once- but then things fell apart, so now he is having to start all over again.<br />Pendleton has been hired on by Kit's father to run the family million dollar business. Kit has run away for the umpteenth time and it is now Pendleton's time to go after her and bring her home. Is this part of his job description? Having no choice Pendleton takes out after Kit. Kit really puts Pendleton through it but he never breaks. This intrigues Kit and she wants to get to know more of Pendleton. One way is by moving in with him (without his approval but she is the boss' daughter so what is he to do). In the end, who is chasing who? The fireworks start! There is a lot of fun with this one - but there are some hidden feelings there too to be discovered. It's a good one to read!	2003-12-16
US	35316077	R3MKCUIQDV37O9	0786234008	732758337	Seducing Mr. Heywood: A Regency Romance (Five Star First Edition Romance Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Could she really love a  country vicar after life in London?	Lady Sophia Rowley is back from her home in London for the funeral of her third elderly husband. Hers was a marriage of convenience and arrangements. It was agreed that if she gave her husband his much wanted heirs she would be set up with nothing to worry about in London. With the unexpected death of Rowley, Sophia has returned from her frivolous existence among the Ton to resume her position of mother to her 2 sons. It is at the reading of the will when she learns that her husband has named the local vicar, Charles Heywood, guardian of the boys. And it is during his first visit when Sophia learns that Charles is NOT the usual dull, pios, and elderly gentleman- but handsome, young, and very caring man who serves as vicar. He is unlike any other man she has met- someone that is not after her sexually but seems to enjoy her as a person, for who she really is. It is from this visit that instead of the wicked and scandalous woman he has heard gossip about, Charles sees for himself Sophia's beauty, intelligence, and sincere feelings for her children. Charles finds himself falling in love with Sophia at first sight. But how would she be interested in someone with as dull a life and as little to offer as Charles has compared to what she is use to. <br />The story is a sweet one but it was dull in parts and didn't keep my attention. I found myself thumbing through pages. It wasn't a keeper for me. I recommend you read it for yourself.	2003-12-16
US	35316077	R1E5461VI152MP	0446364118	612632295	Outcast	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Just who is the real Gabriel Danaker?	Dr. Olivia Barton has moved out to Elkhorn Montana on the request made by her best friend, Amy Talbot, who is expect her first child. Being a woman, Olivia isn't readily accepted by the community the year being 1889 and women weren't accepted in professions such as doctors easily. But that doesn't stop Olivia who takes it on as a challenge.<br />Not much is known about Gabriel Danaher. He is thought of as an outcast who lives in the wilderness, who lives with 2 squaws and only comes out when he needs supplies. What they don't know is that Gabriel was falsely accused of murder and was to hang to his death except 1 of his 2 daughters made a perfect shot severing the rope allowing him to drop and escape by horse back. They have been living in hiding ever since.<br />Gabriel is in town when Olivia arrives and finds himself taking up for the new doctor. Later when his daughters catch diptheria and are dying, Gabriel comes to town to convince the new doctor to come and care for the girls. Many of the towns people have come down with the same fever and Olivia is treating the ones that will accept her help. When Olivia refuses to come with Gabriel he refuses to take no for an answer and kidnaps her carrying her to his home in the wilderness. There Olivia finds 2 little girls close to death. Through her tender loving care they survive but because of a landslide Olivia is stuck there in the mountains with this outcast and his two indian girls for the winter. When discovered of her kidnapping the community tries to save her only to find out that they can't get through until spring. This unexpected time gives Olivia time to get to know the real Gabriel and finds herself falling in love with this mountain man. Gabriel whose wife was murdered thinks he can never love again only to findout that his heart doesn't feel that way. But he is still a wanted man and what kind of life is that for the doctor.<br />The spring comes... along with the community up one side of the mountain andthe possy looking for Gabriel up the other side catching Olivia and Gabriel in the middle. This new relationship they have found- can it stand on it's own? Will Olivia stand beside Gabriel or go back to her life in town? When Gabriel is captured and taken to jail to possible swing from the tree once again Olivia heart kicks into action and doesn't let her stand back. It a great romance set in the west. One that I enjoyed reading and has a good ending.	2003-12-16
US	35316077	R15EGP9A87UAXK	0060530421	293088446	The Lady, the Chef, and the Courtesan	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Wouldn't  you like to receive a diary such as this one...	This one was different - haven't you ever wished you could ask your mother or grandmother questions about their lives, personal questions. After her grandmother's funeral, Pilar is given the gift of her nana's (grandmother) diary and, boy, is it an eye-opener. A family secret is included in the diary that helps put all of the pieces of the family puzzle in place. It is information needed to help Pilar understand her mother. Her nana wants Pilar to make her own decisions for her happiness and not be influenced by her mother. But Pilar must first learn what it is she truly wants out of life. Her grandmother shares the importance of being a lady, art being able to seduce a man through food, and then the talent of being a courtesan to the man/lover/husband to keep him satisfied. It's a different kind of read. Good, but slow for me in parts. But you need to try it and see what you think. I am glad I read it but it's not a keeper for me.	2003-12-09
US	35316077	R2K5FNKWW6L5OZ	0345447182	721522030	Beyond Sunrise	Books	5	4	4	N	N	They've got chemistry!	Jack Ryder might be a foul-mouthed, sloppy, hard-headed, drunk but I liked him. And talk about chemistry... when India McKnight shows up needing Jack to take her to an &quot;exotic, inhabited by cannibals&quot; island! India McKnight is an accomplished travel writer- who lives for her travels and vows never to marry. It just isn't in her plans. Jack Ryder has a dark past and has been running from it all these years. While living a military life he met and married an exotic beauty from one of the islands. She and their daughter were killed during an island raid- Jack witnessed it. To cover up the mess, Jack was accused of the all of killing and is a wanted man by the military. But there's more to the story... Years and expense have been put into trying to capture him and bring him in for trial which has been unsuccessful up to now. Could Jack know something that they don't want to get out?<br />After much persuasion, Jack agrees to take India to this dangerous island only to discover the navy not far behind him when he is trying to protect India from the island tribe of cannibals. It gets worse. The navy catches up with them and the only way Jack can see to get out of their clutches is to take India hostage and track through the jungle to the other side of the island. That is after he has all of the navy officers and crew put down their weapons, take off all their clothes and throw them over the cliff- leaving them with nothing but their hands hanging infront of them as cover up. Jack is stubborn but he has met his match when he pairs up with this hot-headed Scotswoman. The story is full of adventure, danger, humor, and sensual feelings that are discovered after thinking they have been hidden away. It's a great read and I highly recommend it!	2003-12-09
US	35316077	RSCC17JCCC649	0743411366	334367554	Say When: A Novel (Berg, Elizabeth)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	This one hits close to home...	Not in my own marriage- but with several friends' marriages. When did they start drawing apart, one becomes complacent with how things are while the other wants more- &quot;the way it use to be with them&quot;...? Griffin wakes up to his wife wanting a divorce. She has found someone who makes her feel important and young again while Griffin goes about his routine. That's just it- it is all routine, taken for granted. Now Griffin is faced with possible life without his wife, Ellen and his eight-year old, Zoe and starting over again - or renewing his relationship with Ellen, getting that spark back.<br />The story is told through the eyes of the husband, Griffin- which is different and very touching. It doesn't take long for Griffin to decide that separation is NOT what he wants and that he is going to &quot;fight&quot; for what is his. He refuses to move out forcing Ellen to live as roommates in the same house. She continues to see the other person while coming home to Griffin waiting up for her. Things are just too difficult at home so Ellen moves her and Zoe to an apartment, getting a taste of what it's like without Griffin being there. It's not like it's suppose to be for Ellen while Griffin tries to date a little and finds out that his feelings for Ellen are still strong and this just isn't right. <br />It's a good story - will Griffin be able to convince Ellen that they can have the feelings that use to be there without giving up what they have now. Ellen finds out that &quot;the grass is not always green on the other side of the fence.&quot; Zoe plays an important part as well. She has difficulty coping with what is happening to her family that she has always been able to rely on being together up to now. I like what another review said about it being an &quot;endearing and honest book.&quot; I agree.	2003-12-09
US	35316077	ROKSH8O7W1EF5	051512883X	494543365	My Dark Prince	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Mixed emotions	Prince Nicholas, Grand Duke of Glarien is on his way to be married when he discovers that his bride has been kidnapped. Napoleon is overtaking the countryside and Glarien has become important to other neighboring countries because of its location. Nicolas is to be married to the princess and heir of the neighboring county, Alvia, forming a strong alligience against Napoleon. There are some who want to prevent this union from taking place for political and personal reasons, and will do what it takes to keep the wedding from happening. Nicholas realizes that he is just a pawn. He has been taught that his responsibilities to his country come first, putting aside all personal desires for life. He never expects to find any real joy or love out of life. So he does what he has to to keep things on track. A country girl named Penny has been discovered that looks just like the missing princess. Nicholas must persuade her to put her life on hold while he outfits her for a princess and she learns all there is to know to be able to make others believe she is the princess, giving them time to locate the real princess. Working close together- real close together- causes Nicholas and Penny to discover things about each other that they would normally not learn and they both get a glimpse of the other's inner soul, which is something Nicholas never meant to happen. He has one month to teach Penny everything there is to know about the existing princess,while Penny has one month to learn enough to persuade others she is the real princess for the wedding to take place- and then one wedding night to teach Nicholas he can love someone and get love in return.<br />From reading the other reviews, they are definitely mixed. The story is complex and a good one, though depressing in parts. It just wasn't one of my favorites. The language the author used was at times confusing and 0difficult to adjust to.  It took a couple of chapters to get in the swing of the language, too. Read it and see what you think.	2003-12-08
US	35316077	R22J0ZHNJR6PAQ	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	"When you look at the other team think  N A K E D !"	Phoebe can't stand the sport football and hasn't seen her father, who is now deceased, in years. But Phoebe Sommerville has just inherited the Chicago Stars football team through the death of her father. She has one year to bring the team to the Super Bowl and receive her full monotary inheritance or it falls back permanently to her cousin who she despises. But along with the team she has to contend with Coach Dan Celebow. Dan is an ex-quarterback himself and has the talent to be a great coach if the team will just follow his plays- he has a tough job to do and now having to put up with a flakey but gorgeous team owner who likes to give her own instructions like \\"when you look at the other team think naked\\" has just added to his headaches. Needless to say Phoebe and Dan don't hit it off and are constantly butting heads. But there is a sexual attraction that is stronger than either one of them. Can they work things out personally and work together for the team's sake? <br />This is SEP's the prequel to THIS HEART OF MINE. Though I read them in the wrong order they are both good. They are fun, heartwarming and sexy- a recommended read!	2003-10-21
US	35316077	R2QUKXF8A0LE3	0671776096	869998580	Whitney, My Love (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A favorite of mine	Whitney Stone has been a disappointment to her father since the death of her mother. He hasn't be able to control her during her adolescent years. She has been an embarrassment to everyone the way she has &quot;ran after&quot; their neighbor Paul, having a childish crush on him. Paul is 4 years older than her &amp; thought of Whitney as a little sister. Whitney's father has come to the decision to send Whitney to live with her aunt and uncle in Paris. Maybe her aunt can do something with her.<br />Under their loving guidance, Whitney blossoms into a beautiful young lady. She experiences the excitment of Paris and is all the rage at the parties and balls. It is at one such ball that she dances with a mysterious man, not knowing that he is the Duke of Claymore- the most sought after bachelor around. Clayton decides that he has to have Whitney. He sets out to find out who she is and discovers that her father is in desperate financial need. During a visit with Whitney's father, Claymore makes a monotary offer to become betrothed to Whitney. But it is to be kept a secret for Clayton wants to court Whitney so she will have a chance to get to know him before she is told of their engagement. Whitney is returned to England, excited to be back home and plotting to convince Paul that she is his &quot;true love&quot; for she has never given up on their getting together. Clayton also moves to England to be close to Whitney, but hides his identity from her. It is through deception that Clayton courts Whitney. From the very first, Whitney forms a dislike for Clayton and things go downhill from there for them. Clayton has a hard time handling disappointment. He is use to women &quot;falling all over him&quot; and having his way. And though Paul is slow about showing interest in Whitney, she is convinced that it will come. Talk about a roller coaster ride! There are all sorts of misunderstandings. And Clayton is determined to have Whitney. Whitney becomes confused with her feelings... when she finds out who Clayton really is and what he has done (bought her to be his bride) she is furious. Things only get worse. At one time, you'll think there is no way they will get together. The table changes and Whitney starts doing the chasing. Boy, the love Clayton has for Whitney is so strong that it is blinding to him and makes him literally crazy. And their love-hate relationship will make the reader go crazy- it is so emotional.<br />I enjoyed it. I understand were some looked at Clayton as being demanding and forceful- but don't we see that in the majority of regency romances?! Anyway, I hope you will read it for your self and see what you think.	2003-10-20
US	35316077	R18LNZRXJBKOVV	0671042513	244943533	The Last Chance Cafe : A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Some are not fortunate enough to have a last Chance	There are some wrong doings dealing with the death of her step-father. The authorities said it was petty theft. A stranger shows up at the funeral telling her that is was murder and tells her there's a box that contains evidence of the fact. When locating the box, Hallie's husband appears demanding the box be turned over to him. She knows he's involved now. She feels the urgency to get out-of-town with the box, so Hallie O'Rourke grabs her 2 girls, jumps in a broken down truck and heads out with no more than the clothes on her back. Hallie ends up in Primrose Creek at The Last Chance Cafe during a snow storm after they have walked several miles. The truck is broke down, there's no money, no plans, and she's got 2 little girls that are hungry and scared. <br />Chance Qualtrough, single and a local rancher, takes one look at Hallie standing in the door of the cafe and feels the need to &quot;take her under his wing.&quot; He offers to help her find a place to stay- thinking of his aunt's vacant house the whole time. The owner of the cafe offers Hallie a job of waitressing. Hallie decides to take both offers so she can &quot;stop for a minute&quot; and think about what her next move will be. And there is something about Chance that tells Hallie to trust hime and allow him to &quot;protect&quot; her and the girls. Instead of a night or 2 of rest and thinking, Hallie's stay turns out to be longer (there's peace here, could this be what she has been for). In the back of her mind she knows that her ex-husband is looking for her- she has something that is wanted by the possible murderer of her loved step-father, something that could ruin a man and career.<br />Chance has a home but it's lacking love and warmth. He thought he had found it one time, a long time ago, but it turned to someone else. Seeing Hallie and her girls, Chance faces his desire for love and a family. But can he trust Hallie with his heart and can he convince Hallie to trust him with her fears? And will Hallie's ex-husband be able to figure out where she and girls are? How is he involved? <br />I don't know what I expected- but I was pleasantly surprised. It's a really good book- one that will keep you interested to the end. It's more that a &quot;sweet romance with a little suspence mixed in.&quot; Hallie and Chance's relationship touched my heart- their desire is so strong. I really enjoyed it and think you will, too. The ending is really good. I just hate that it took Hallie soooo long. I'll leave it at that for the reader.	2003-10-17
US	35316077	R2S5Z2GRVHBPZQ	0821773410	312695268	Perfect Together	Books	4	3	3	N	N	One "dating show" couple  I would have liked to see on TV	Sports broadcaster, Jake Jarvis is gorgeous, single and a dad. He tries to discourage women from looking his way because he \\"has eyes\\" only for his 4 year old little boy, Noah, and is happy spending all his spare time with him. But it gets hard to ignore the looks and interest of women when his face or/and body starts showing up on billboards and bus signs as the newest sex symbol. This is done to promote the TV sports channel he is on, his boss applies for Jake to be a contestant on a TV reality dating show. Jake is not happy now. It is in the lobby of the dating show that Jake meets \\"the-girl-next-door want to look like\\" Carley Madison at the coffee machine. Carley is actually actress Marley Madison who is trying to further her career by proving that she can be a serious actress. Her agent suggested that she change her identity and become a contestant on the dating show to prove her talent on national tv. When producers witness the chemistry between Jake and Carley, they decide to pair them up as a couple. Now the fun begins. Having nothing in common but wanting to be successful (for different reasons), Jake and Carley try to make a go of it. They have to spend so much time together on dates and getting along takes work. But success soon becomes secondary when their hearts get involved.<br />The story is a lot of fun. There are many tender moments between Jake and Noah that are soooo sweet. Carley who is soooo worldly, has never considered settling down and having a family is faced with realizing this is something she wants. Jake is faced with realizing the emptiness in his and Noah's lives. Silly at times but a great read! A lot of fun!	2003-10-14
US	35316077	R1RK3APD52ZK4Z	1551669595	979999779	Keeper of the Light	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A keeper for me!	If you are wanting a quick and easy read, this is not the one for you. From the very beginning, the story starts off intense and is like that all the way through the book. A quick review of the story... Christmas night, Dr. Olivia Cole is about to finish up her shift on-duty when a woman is brought in with a fatal gunshot wound. Annie O'Neill was working in a woman's shelter serving supper along with her daughter when an upset husband came in threatening to shoot his estranged wife, shooting Annie instead. Realizing time is against them, Olivia makes the decision to operate, losing Annie on the operating table. <br />Annie O'Neill was a local stained-glass artist, married to Alec with 2 children, and well-loved through out her community due to her giving heart. When Olivia arrives home from the hospital and tells her husband, Paul of Annie's death, Paul becomes distraught and tells Olivia he has been living a lie and leaves her. Olivia becomes obsessed with wanting to findout what it was about Annie to draw Paul away from her. Through learning about Annie's life, Olivia discovers Paul and Annie went wayyyyyy back. Through her obsession, Olivia gets to know and become important to Alec and his children. There is definitely a triangle going on between Olivia, Paul, and Alec. Secrets come out that have been kept by the Keeper of the Lighthouse, Mary Poor whom Annie had become like a daughter to. Secrets you will never guess!<br />It's powerful, intense, and was emotional for me. My heart really went out to Olivia but also to Alec- you get to really know him as well. Through Olivia's search about Annie, she gets to really find herself! It is definitely a book to get and read! I highly recommend it. It was a keeper for me!	2003-10-14
US	35316077	RFGGHPCYHB8RZ	0380725703	745711270	Love Me Forever	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A head-strong Scotsman and a head-strong Englishwoman...	Frustrated and financially lacking, Lachlan MacGregor laird of the clan MacGregor, realizes he needs money fast - a rich wife. He has responsibilities towards the clan and stealing from the rich is only getting them so far. When his father died his step-mother left with the family riches leaving Lachlan the clan with nothing to support them. The only quick way to find a wife is to participate in the coming out season. There has only been one woman for Lachlan when it came to love but Megan is now married to the Duke - but for the clan he'll do it.  Kimberly's mother has died and before the official season of mourning is even over her father is pushing her out of the nest to find a husband. But NO SCOTSMAN! He has found a woman to marry and she will not consider him unless there are no children at home. He sends Kimberly with the promise of a might dowery in her pocket to the home of the Duke and Duchess who are to be her escorts into the Season. It is there that Lachlan and Kimber meet. It is not love at first sight but there is an attraction. Lachlan ends up on the home of his first love Megan (the Duchess) but he is pulled to Kimber. It gets pretty comical here for Lachlan thinks he is going to carry Megan away from the Duke to be his love but he keeps ending up with Kimber- not to mention the girl back home that is &quot;pining over Lachlan&quot; to return home and realize that she is the woman for him. What a mess! Especially when the Duke's prize horse come up missing and Lachlan is automatically accused of the stealing since that is how the clan has been supporting themselves up to now. His only alibi is Kimber- but she doesn't want to speak up because that would put her in his bedroom at night when it happened and her reputation ruined. But who did it? The stable boy claims the man sound like Lachlan!<br />It is a fun read though it is lacking at times- kind of blah. You can tell this is an older book to read. But it is still a cute one.	2003-10-13
US	35316077	R28N8FIY948TM2	0671044176	642069685	Sweet Liar	Books	3	0	3	N	N	There are better ones to read	I picked up this tape to read on a trip. It my first and I wasn't impressed. I recommend reading the book if you are going to get it. The tape was dry and lacking. BLAH! The story was interesting and I agree! Michael would be a &quot;dream come true.&quot; But Sam seemed to be lacking something. Again, maybe it was just the tape. Single, 28 years old and alone, Sam Elliott arrives in New York after burying her father. It has been an emotional roller coaster for her. One that she has been experiencing privately only- since she is not one to show her emotions to others. She has instructions to a certain apartment that is her's from her father for a year while she is to finish her father's business and possible help her put pieces to the puzzle of her life together. Mike Taggart is the landlord- a sweetheart for sure. Being an author (Mike is writing a book about the Prohibition-era and gangsters, especially Doc Barrett) Mike likes putting pieces of puzzles together. And Sam is a puzzle. Mike won't let Sam &quot;pull back into the cacoon&quot; like she wants to do. Sam's grandmother disappeared when Sam was little and it is her father's wish that Sam find the missing piece of the puzzle -WHY. Mike helps her with it while helping her out of depression and finding reason in her life. The story was slow but there's romance and humor there. Mike's family is fun and he's got money that he spends on Sam which is FUN. But I would have to rate this read as average. There are better ones out there. Or atleast don't listen to the audio. Try reading the book. The story didn't interest me enough to get the book and see what I missed out on.	2003-10-13
US	35316077	R19WKG4V6S235G	0345462270	475675876	Gone Too Far (Troubleshooters, Inc. 6)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	You might want to read the previous books in the series 1st.	Navy Seal Sam Starrett hasn't had a word from his ex-wife yet on their divorce. He travels to Florida hoping to convince her to go on and sign the papers. When he arrives at her sister's house he discovers the body of a murdered women on the floor of the kitchen. She's been there several days but from the hair color and size it sure looks like Mary Lou- but where is their little 2 year old Haley? After looking around the house himself being careful not to disturb anything, there's no baby! Sam calls his contact with the FBI. It's made to look like a robbery but not all of the pieces fit. FBI agent Alyssa Locke is put in charge of the investigation. Sam and Alyssa apparently go wayyyyyyyy back. Sam and Alyssa's relationship was one that was powerful but brief due to  Mary Lou caming up pregnant. Sam wanted to do the right thing by marrying Mary Lou. Bad situation! Now Sam and Alyssa are thrown together again in a tough working situation with emotional and physical sparks flying. I don't want to say too much and give some of the story away. Is the woman Mary Lou and if not where is she and Haley? With terrorist tension high and with certain evidence- could this be a terrorist act and how will this affect Sam and his career? There are several other stories going on too as well to follow... Sam's Seal commander, Tom Paoletti- accused of aiding terrorists and his live-in girlfriend Kelly who gets involved trying to prove Tom's innocence; FBI negotiator Max Bhagat, Alyssa's Boss- dealing with his feelings for Alyssa and Gina, a younger woman who was taken as hostage during a terrorist attack and feeling threatened having Alyssa and Sam working together; Noah Gaines and his grandfather, Sam's black childhood friend who played a vital part in Sam's growing up and career choice. Well there's just a lot going on.<br />Great story! At times a little confusing with there being so much going on. It was my first of this series to read and from reading the other reviews I wonder if it would have been easier to follow if I had read the previous books. But it is still a good one. Sam needs his mouth washed out with soap. A little dirty talking is expected but Sam's was unnecessary and that did get OLD! It is definitely not a \\"one-sitting\\" read and it might be a little slow in the beginning for some- but hang in there (it's like a roller coaster- making that \\"up hill climb\\" it is slow at first but then there is that drop) and things really get going. I am headed not to get the previous books to read! Yea, I would recommend it!	2003-10-13
US	35316077	RNDW6V0DERZQI	0446610542	540641208	The Bachelor (The Chandler Brothers, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun read! ....  (Crocheted Panties? )	This is one of to read if you want something fun and light-- I enjoyed it (more than I thought I would when I first picked it up) though The Playboy is still my favorite so far... I haven't read The Heartbreaker, yet, though. The Chander Boys' mom decides to use her doctor's visit to make her boys think that she might not be around all that much longer and to make her wishes come true - to see at least one of her sons married and have a grandchild. (I know- sounds silly, huh? Hey, to some it gets worse.) The three sons have a coin toss and Roman wins (or losses, whichever way you want to look at it). Roman nows agree to proceed with finding himself a bride. That is when he learns that his old high school crush, Charlotte Bronson, has moved back home divorced. Roman's idea of a wife is one that he can tolerate long enough to marry, set up house with, get pregnant, and then leave to continue his life style as a world-travelled journalist with no regards to wife/or child. Charlotte puts a damper on Roman's plans- because he can't get her out of his mind or heart and the other town's girls don't match up to Charlotte. One date brings back sweet memories. Charlotte would never accept such an arrangement as the one that Roman is looking for. She has made a life of her own in Yorkshire Falls as the owner of a lingerie shop (she even makes her own crocheted panties- how comfortable can they be? ha,ha,ha!!!) and would never agree to to a long distance romance. So will Roman and Charlotte be able to come up with a compromise? There are several things going on as well as Roman and Charlotte's story - mom's health and a pantie thief. Read it and have fun.	2003-10-07
US	35316077	R25FO9N8QOHYYV	0743410602	166848421	Irresistible (Banning Sisters Trilogy)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good story line... but	The setting is in England around 1813. Claire Lynes is mistaken for the female spy, Sophie Towbridge, and is hunted down by kidnappers but captured by Colonel Hugh Battancourt. Her only mistake was being at the wrong place at the wrong time. It takes a while to convince Hugh that she is Claire not Sophie. Sparks start up between Hugh and Claire when they travel by ship in close quarters. Claire is in an unhappy/loveless marriage with David but doesn't realize that until Hugh shows her what real love really is. So what about Sophie Towbridge, why are they out looking for her and how why is Hugh risking his life to capture Sophie? It Claire going to stay with David or will she leave him for Hugh? It's a love triangle. Read it and see what you think. <br />I do feel that this had a good story line but there were times there seemed to be no deepth- something missing. I, too, am one of those that finish a book every couple of days and just feel that there are better ones out there- though I won't say don't read this one. And KR fans may enjoy this one tremendously, but I again say that there are better ones out there.	2003-10-07
US	35316077	RWD2GSTIUF2EK	0671786466	118811339	Paradise County	Books	3	1	1	N	N	It's an OK read	After the death of her father, Alexandra Haywood is left with the job of seeing after her father's estate. Contrary to what everyone believes- the estate is broke and has to be down sized. The lawyer suggested that Alexandra let him take care of dismissing employees and selling race horse farm but Alexandra feels she owes it to the loyal employees to be told by her that they no longer have a job. She sets out for Paradise County, Kentucky. When she mets Joe Welch, the farm manager face to face and tells him to sell off the horses so she can sell the farm, Joe fights her all the way. His dream was to make these horses the best race horses yet and now it is being shot to pieces. Sparks fly! Emotionally and physically between the two. There's an attraction there between Alexandra and Joe but never want to admit it due to the friction over the farm. It is still hard for Alexandra to believe that her father would commit suicide- but that is what the report says- but even from it things don't add up. And Joe Welch was the one that found him dead. Alexandra wants to do some questioning of her own. The more Alexandra ask the more unusual things start turning up, like a presence in her bedroom at night and someone setting the house on fire- could someone be out to harm Alexandra? Alexandra's kid sister showing up from school to live with her doesn't help the matter. Joe has his kids to keep track of too. Being a single parent hasn't been easy but Joe has worked at it. Now he has someone else needing some of his attention- Alexandria. Can he deal with someone special coming into his life after all of these years of being single? The story line is good but there seemed to be something left out of it. It seemed choppy to me- I don't know. It just wasn't one of my favorites. But I wouldn't say don't read it. Just don't buy it. There is better out there.	2003-09-30
US	35316077	R1IJHRZZ8U9DL3	0373835418	457204414	Apache Summer	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Slater Brothers Lasaga continues...Jamie &amp; Tess's story	The sequel to Rides A Hero - the story continues. Though the Civil War is over Jamie has continued a lieutenant on the frontier of Texas protecting settlers during Indian raids. His 2 older brothers settled down but Jamie never found the one he couldn't live without so he's still single. While traveling with her rich uncle Tess Stuart's wagon train is raided and her uncle is murdered. It is left to look like an indian massacre but Tess knows better. The man who owns the town has been harrassing the Stuarts for a while now to sell out their ranch to him but they have refused. Now Tess is left to advenge her homeland herself. But she can't do it by herself. What better person to help her than one of the Slater Brothers who are know to be able to handle a gun. Tess's spirited personality captures Jamie's heart and the battle is on. The reader even &quot;sees&quot; Cole and Malachi show up with their families to help Jamie out. So it's good seeing the family come together once more. Kristin and Shannon still prove to be spirited themselves. It's a lot of fun reading-one I think you will enjoy.	2003-09-30
US	35316077	R1PQSCWH8EQC0D	0061041807	882544335	Finger Prints	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Everything was there in place but something was missing...	Have you ever wondered about the people who have to change their identity in some kind of protection program. Well, while uncovering a story of possible arson journalist Robyn Hart's life is threatened. She receives a new identity of Carly under the Witness Relocation Program and is relocated as a teacher in the Boston area. She lives in constant fear of being found out- the people that want her life are that ruthless. She has become scared of her own shadow. Ryan moves into Carly's apartment building of which Carly literally runs into Ryan one day. Ryan- who has had no interest in dating for so long, is attracted to Carly and decides to persue her, not taking no for an answer. Carly is at first scared to trust Ryan but  s..l..o..w..l.. y  lets her guard down and a romance buds. But things are difficult because she can't tell Ryan the truth of her past and has never been good at lying. Ryan cares for her and wants to know more about Carly but she seems to be hiding something. And then a strange man shows up and seems to be following Carly. When Carly gets a good look at him she recognizes him to be the one that trued to murder her before. SHOWTIME!<br />I had no idea when I picked it up what it was about. But I really enjoyed it and highly recommend it! Ryan and Carly are really sweet together. There is suspense and romance and the ending was a surprise to me. Read it and Enjoy it.	2003-09-30
US	35316077	R2X2TBV1886JV6	0373834780	758083758	Summer Fires (3 novels in 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The 3 Slater Brothers Stories wapped up in one book	I enjoyed seeing the three stories of the Slater Brothers brought together in one book - it sure keeps the reader from having to hunt around to find the sequels. This book contains Cole Slater &amp; Kristin McCahy's story (Dark Stranger) during the Civil War with jayhawks and bushwackers both interested in the McCahy farm, Malachi Slater &amp; Shannon McCahy's story (Rides A Hero) right after the war with the kidnapping of Kristin McCahy Slater and the capturing of the 3 gunfightn' Slater Brothers wanted for murder, and Jamie Slater &amp; Tess Stuart's story (Apache Summer) several years after the war on the frontier land of Texas where Tess Stuart is being forced off her land by a greedy man who already owns the rest of the town. It makes for good read- with Heather Graham being the author the reader won't want for much. Some of the sexual encounters are pretty graphic- if that bothers you you might want to avoid it. Some readers overlook and go on. HG always tells an exciting story.	2003-09-30
US	35316077	R2ZSK801E20MPT	0373835132	355528353	Rides A Hero	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Slater Brothers Lasaga continue...Malachi &amp; Shannon's story	The sequel to Dark Stranger - the story continues. Shannon McCahy (a yankee supporter) and Malachi Slater (a rebel soldier) pull together to look for Shannon's sister Kristin Slater, Malachi's sister-in-law, who has been kidnapped in hopes to draw her husband cole Slater out. The Civil War is over but the Slater brothers have been put on the Wanted List as murderers due to Cole Slater gunning down the man bushwacker that murdered his first wife and left Cole for dead. In Dark Stranger (the story of Kristin McCahy and Cole Slater) Shannon and Malachi couldn't be in the same room together without breaking into arguments- they hated each other that much or so it seemed. How are they going to be able to cooperate and work together to find Kristin and get word to Cole to stay put? They say the line between Love and Hate is very thin. Malachi spends as much or more time getting Shannon out of trouble because of her loud mouth and hot-temper. But when there's a threat of losing Shannon to bushwhackers Malachi realizes that he has crossed over from hate to love. All 3 brothers come together to save Kristin. It is great seeing them all together again. The characters are all powerful. It's a good read!	2003-09-30
US	35316077	R1XASXKHSCFRX	0671786113	486399296	Fair Haven	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The love between friends can be that strong!	This was my 1st JoAnn Ross to read- and it won't be my last!     After arriving home to spend some time with her family, Dr. Erin O'Halloran receives a request from a dear friend to travel to Western Ireland. After years of working on the front lines of war, Dr. Tom Flanner is now dying at a young age from the effects of gas warfare. He says that his reason for requesting her to come is for her to help with his medical practice as he slowly loses his strength and becomes bedridden but there's a hidden agenda.<br />     Michael Joyce has come home after spending years as a Pulitzer Prize Award photographer from the front lines of war needing to recover physically and emotionally from the effects of war. He has escaped to his family farm but the ghosts are even there. His childhood friend Dr. Tom Flannery is dying. While Michael is having to face the future loss of his best friend Tom, he is approached by his old girlfriend's mother accompanied by a little girl. He discovers that the past girlfriend/lover was killed in a bombing at her wedding and has left a daughter who she claimed was Michael's by blood. Michael who never wanted to marry, much less have kids, now finds himself with a daughter he did not know existed to raise.<br />     After leaving Coldwater Cove, Washington, Erin travels across the world to Castlelough, Ireland. She is introduced to Michael at the airport by Tom and her first impression of Michael is one of his being a cold- hard man. But as time goes by she learns that he does have a warm heart and they have a lot in common from what they both experienced with war. As time goes by Erin feels she has come home and known Michael forever, which can not be since they just met- and there is a little mystery there that I will leave for the reader. <br />It is a story of the love between friends, father-daughter, lovers, family, etc. The setting being in Ireland is delightful. I really enjoyed this story! and highly recommend it to the reader. I will goback and get the prequel A Woman's Heart- I enjoyed the story that much.	2003-09-25
US	35316077	R3IFJG87AWQVA7	0060507365	720423107	When Strangers Marry (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good story line...	Lysette Kersaint is being married off by her set abusive stepfather to Etienne Sagesse a man that is hateful and she loathes very much. She runs away ending up at the widow, Maximilien Vallerand's home and is taken in by him. He wants revenge on Etienne Sagesse due to that fact that Etienne was once his wife's lover. Max's disceased wife's death was questionable and Max is still thought to be a murderer. Etienne will be do anything to get Lysette and Maximilien is determined not to turn her over to him. One way to keep Lysette away from him is by marrying her himself. And that is just what he does- not thinking that he will lose his heart to her. Now Etienne is really set on getting revenge on Maxmilien while Maximilien is working against Etienne and Lysette is the pawn. It is an exciting story (one that I at times found boring, though). Maybe that was just me. I would recommend it as a read but not one to buy. There are better out there. Just my opinion.	2003-09-18
US	35316077	RXKN8SZBZ4MXW	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	JQ's version of Cinderella	We all know the story of Cinderella - but this has a twist to it. It is the night of the Masquerade Ball and Sophie Beckett (the illegitimate daughter of the deceased Earl of Penwood) has no plans on going until servants present her with her deceased mother's gown and help make her presentable to attend. It is  understood that she must meet the carriage before midnight so she will arrive back home before her hateful step-mother and step-sisters get back. She goes and meets up with Benedict Bridgerton - both are intriqued with each other and before Sophia has to reveal her identity, Sophia runs out leaving a monogramed glove behind. Now Benedict is determined to find the mystery girl searching with the glove in hand. His mother recognizes the monogram sending Benedict to the home of Sophia's step-mother. Discovering Sophia's adventure, she sends Benedict away without revealing Sophia and throws her out to fend for herself. Embarrassed that Benedict might find out the truth about her birth, Sophia leaves London. Three years later Benedict saves Sophia from some wreckless rogues at a bachelor party he attends. Not recognizing her due to her servant dress, Benedict takes her to his mother's to work - fall's in love with her all over again wanting her to become his mistress. Sophia's world is a dream with Benedict's attention drawn to her - until her step-mother discovers her and reveals her as a servant. Things start to fall apart for Sophia and Benedict. But if you know anything of the Bridgerton family (from JQ's previous books) they pull together during a time of crisis. It is a wonderful story.	2003-09-16
US	35316077	R166BOXA5RYVO3	0671016652	349044747	Three Wishes	Books	5	1	3	N	N	It's a  different kind of read...	The setting is that of a small Vermont town where the community knows everyone and is a family. The waitress at the local cafe, Bree Miller has no family in fact the community is her family. While walking on her way home one evening, Bree is hit by a passing jeep that is forced off the road by a truck that loses control on the icy road. She is rushed to the hospital and has a near-death experience while being revived on the operating table. During her &quot;out-of-body&quot; experience she receives three wishes to ask for.  <br />The driver of the jeep, Tom Gates feels responsible and stays at the hospital for the days that it takes Bree to recover. Bree and Tom start getting to know each other by sharing about each other's lives. Tom is a famous author that has escaped from all of the publicity to the country to find himself again. He had separated himself from friends and family only to find himself alone in his life of fame and fortune. Through his time with Bree, Tom's experiences the joy of a simpler life. As Bree moves home from the hospital Tom becomes a regular there, too, against the wishes of the community, to help Bree continue to recover. She becomes more and more an important part of his life as he does for her- filling a void in her life for love that she never expected to experience. But what about the three wishes... were they real or just a dream? And what happens after the third wish is made? Bree and Tom fall in love but there are still parts of Bree's life that she wants to find out about - like the mystery of her mother that she never knew. Get ready... it's a tear jerker! Bree and Tom's love is sooooo fresh, sweet, and strong - yes, it is graphic at times, too! You will get to know everyone in the community - they all play important parts throughout the story (whether you like them or not). And the end was hard to accept-even though I knew what was coming before it happened but it still hurt. Yes, I cried! And still do just thinking of it, it was that strong. For some it will be depressing, but what a sweet story. <br />So if you are ready for something different. This one's for you.	2003-09-16
US	35316077	R3OFSK4JZZNIDY	0440221986	78629434	A Dangerous Man	Books	4	8	8	N	N	You know the saying &quot;your past will catch up with you...&quot;	Mercy Coltrane has arrived in England to look for her brother that mysteriously disappeared. There is one man that can help her - the hired gunslinger that went by Hart Moreland when working for her father on their Texas ranch. He later returned to England and Mercy is out to find him to help her. While staying at her hostess' home, this wealthy, striking in looks (men can't take their eyes off her), and strong-willed woman is introduced to the Earl of Perth - a mysterious, cold-hearted, emotionless, serious man who is none other than Hart Moreland. He is there to accept the proposal of marriage for his sister. He has worked hard to make his family's reputation respectible and influential all to be lost now with his dishonorable past being revealed by Mercy. The only way of keeping her quiet is to work with her in find out the where abouts of her brother. Hart finds out that Mercy is also in danger of losing her life while he is in danger of losing his heart to her. No other woman has been able to break through that wall his placed around his heart until now. It truly is a sensual romance that will touch your heart. I hope you will read and enjoy it!	2003-09-16
US	35316077	RBY40TDX0630U	155166948X	34594744	Prince Joe (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	from the arrogant gleam in his eyes to his New York accent..	Joe's got it! Boy, does he. Joe is well-liked, good at what he does (in fact he is one of the best), and it's all wrapped up in a good-lookin' package (or body) too. And he is in demand... because he just so happens to look like the Ustanzian prince whose life is in danger of terrorist while visiting the USA. It is decided to do a switch with the prince and Navy Seals Lieutenant Joe Catalanofto - only with the help of the prince's aide Veronica St.John. Hopefully after working with Veronica, Joe can learn the prince's aristocratic ways of living, take his place for the next couple of weeks and discover who is making threats of the prince's life. This will be no easy task!  Due to Joe being confident and cocky, sparks fly when Veronica and Joe first meet making working conditions difficult. But they must work with their assignment which means they will be working closely together. Very Close together! Will Joe be able to pull it off? Will Joe and Veronica pull together?<br />Like some of the other reviewers I found the story simple at times, but I got caught up in it and enjoyed it. It was interesting reading about the seals and their dedication and the relationship between Joe and Veronica was cute and sweet. It's a recommended read by me!	2003-09-15
US	35316077	R13HN0DJNG8PYK	0515090395	813411978	A Heart Speaks	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Two for the price of  one ...	There are times when I am in the mood for a good romance - nothing complicated about it. This is one of those books! Two stories make up this one book - and though they are similar being from the heart, the stories are of different situations. &quot;Forsaking All Others&quot; is about female photographer that has been used by a previous male model turned lover and is now having difficulties trusting &quot;anything that wears pants.&quot; But she has to work with them due to her profession. Are they all users or is there one out there that doesn't just love himself? &quot;A Promise to Cherish&quot; is about a business woman that is having a difficult time making a go of it in a male's world. She picks up the wrong suitcase in the airport putting herself in an ackward situation when she meets the owner of it. Both stories are on learning to trust others and opening up your heart even if there is a chance of it being heart. The risk is worth it. They are one night reads to enjoy! Of course, you can't help but enjoy with LaVryle Spencer being the author!	2003-09-15
US	35316077	R3TL3D2HJJWT7S	038079828X	99863303	Petals on the River	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Never a dull moment...but isn't that how it is with KW books	I some how missed this one when I was reading KW books years ago and was in the mood for a REAL romance. I wasn't disappointed. Yes, you can tell this was written years ago. But it is still a good one. Shemaine O'Hearn has been falsely accused of thief, put in prison, and sent by ship to the colonies to remove her from her prestigious fiance's life (inwhich his family didn't think she was good enough). She is sold as an indentured servant to the highest bidder - Gage Thornton, widow and local ship builder who needs a nanny for his toddler son. Rumors have it that Gage killed his wife by pushing her off his ship during a fit of rage due to an angry temper. But Shemaine can't imagine such after seeing him handle his son with love and her with respect and kindness. Desires begin to grow between Shemaine and Gage but they work at dealing with them honorably while a few in the community try to stir rumors up about their living conditions and her past. There is one in particularly that just knew Gage would turn to her to replace his deceased wife. Jealously strikes out between her and Shemaine. Then Shemaine's family show up from Scotland in search for her, along with her English fiance - but it is too late. Shemaine and Gage couldn't ignore feelings any longer and got married. Tempers flair and - by the way - just how did Gage's first wife really die? It was true Woodiwiss style of writing with romance and suspence (that, yes, you could probably guess at but was still good). I enjoyed it and felt the love between Shemaine and Gage. Yes, I recommend it!	2003-09-11
US	35316077	R1MU9ROFZ4LK8A	0451198646	969164431	The Bargain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	You never know how things will turn out...	To be able to receive her inheritance, Lady Jocelyn Kendal must wed before her 25th birthday which is in a couple of weeks. If she doesn't it will be go to an unworthy cousin and his wife- according to her father's will. So she sets out to find a suitor that she doesn't want. While visiting an army hospital of soldiers awaiting death, she meets a major who fought at Waterloo and is well thought of and well liked. He is paralyzed from the waist down and is not expected to live long- Major David Lancaster. It's a matter of hours. Then a thought strikes Jocelyn. Why not wed the major if he is willing. She will have her fortune and be a widow all in one breath (not having to have a husband to put up with is her desire), if the major will go along with it. He does with honor. They say I do. Then they await Death to come knocking. But his sister is not ready to give up hope and there is a surprise...a change in plans! I'll let you read to find out the &quot;turn of tables.&quot; Along with Jocelyn and David's story there is one of his sister meeting an army doctor. It's a very sweet story as well that is included. It's a good book - my first MJP to read. I look forward to others. Yes, I recommend it.	2003-09-10
US	35316077	R8JYZAJSKQVOK	0671508229	359383889	Heart of the West	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A captivating story - worth the read!	PW is great and one of my favorite authors. And this is another one of hers worth reading. Clementine Kennicutt has a difficult life at home with an overly strict religious Boston father. Her last governess had post cards with cowboys pictures on them. Clementine now dreams of what it would be like living in the west with a real live cowboy. Dreaming is a sin and if caught she pays severely through punishment. One day she is run down on the street with a new contraption called a bicycle being ridden by a real cowboy. Gus McQueen is taken by Clementine's beauty and invites Clementine to elope with him to Montana and she goes, seeing this as the only way to escape the proper life ahead of her and making her dreams come true. They sneak away in the middle of the night and marry a day later in a near by town before starting their travels by ferry and wagon train back to his Rocking R Ranch in the Montana Territory that he shares with his brother Zach. Zach resents Clementine and does everything he can do to discourage her and send her back home. But it only makes her that much more determined. There's a fine line between love and hate.<br />It is a story of adventure, love, acceptance, friendship, resentment- just a little bit of everything. Clementine has to learn how to satisfy a husband, keep house, along with putting up with a resentful brother who turns out to be exciting and dangerous. She befriends the saloon (whorehouse) owner, against her proper husband's wishes, and the Chinese mail-order bride who is never accept in their society. I like how one reviewer puts it - there is a \\"full array of socials, shindigs and shootings, weddings, beddings, birthings and buryings.\\" After you have read a PW book you have been on an adventure. Hey, it was a keeper for me!	2003-09-10
US	35316077	R91DX3RAKW0J1	0553445979	606851052	Time Enough for Love (Loveswept)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great little romance packed with a good story line...	You know I really enjoyed this one. It's an oldie but a goodie to me and one that I really recommend. I normally don't read time travel romances but I am glad I gave this one a chance. Chuck has invented a time travel capsule and has travelled into the past hoping to change the event that took place and save the life of his sweetheart who was killed during a &quot;take over.&quot; Chuck lands in Maggie's backyard naked. Boy, is that hard to explain. Though he is ten years ahead of the time he is still great looking and Maggie hasn't met the young Chuck yet. The older Chuck has to convince Maggie to convince the younger Chuck not to invent the time capsule to keep from landing in wrong hands that plan on controling the world with it. Romance is mixed with science fiction. A great little read!	2003-09-09
US	35316077	R1246TIL2XR90P	0767905202	527463952	Mr. Maybe: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A fun read...to go along with a cute cover!	Defnitely a chick book - but a fun one if you need something light and easy. What Libby fore sees in her future is not an aspiring writer that is broke but has a lot of charm and good in bed. She meets Nick (the author) and has what is suppose to be a fling. But even though she tries to keep it casual, Nick makes his place in her life and is hard to ignore. Now, Ed - on the other hand is just what she had in mind. Rich, well-known, and liked- but charmer he's not. Maybe there's something here to work with though. So Libby strikes out to see if Ed is Mr. Right while Nick is always in the background - Mr. Maybe? Will it be Ed (Mr. Rich but doesn't &quot;have it&quot;- in or out of bed) or will it be Nick (Mr. Broke but a charmer)?	2003-09-09
US	35316077	RBBL8TRG5EIBM	0449005895	389360086	The China Bride (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sequial to The Wild Child	True- it's not a conventional romance story and I agree it was harder to get through this one than The Wild Child but it was a great romance story to be told. After the death of his beloved mistress and the unexpected marriage of his twin, Kyle travels to fill a life long dream of seeing China before fulfilling his responsibilities as Lord Maxwell for the family. China is closed to foreigners/traders and they are required to stay within the settlement set aside for them to due their trading in. During his trip, Kyle is assigned the help of Jin Kang, a young male Chinese interpreter. Jin turns out to be Troth Mei-Lian, the daughter of a Scottish trader and Chinese concubine who is being forced to live as a male spy for a Chinese lord that took her in at the death of her father years ago. Troth is wanting to escape to Europe to return to her father's family. When Kyle discovers Troth's identity he offers his help for Troth to travel by ship to Scotland if she is willing to show China to him. Of course, this will be dangerous and disguise will be required. The pack is made and the trip is planned and carried out. Towards the end of the trip Kyle's true identity is discovered and he is arrested and thrown into prison. Troth sneeks into the prison and they perform marriage ceremony to each other hoping that his marriage to a chinese will help save his life but before Troth can get to the right authorities she hears his execution. She now has to escape herself, find Kyle's partner, travel by ship and present herself to his family as his wife. It was a wonderful story. Different!	2003-08-21
US	35316077	R8PUCJ53SHR3N	0449005844	548738377	The Wild Child (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Story with a Great Romance	Dominic Renbourne helps out his identical twin brother Kyle by going to Lady Meriel Grahame's home and pretending to be Kyle. It is suppose to be a quick trip to make a appearance. There was a marriage arrangement between the fathers Kyle &amp; Meriel when they were children and it is now time for Kyle to court Meriel even though word has it that she is mad. Dominic and Kyle haven't seen others in years due to a bitter confrontation but this visit is very important to the family wealth due to inheritance that will come with Meriel at time of marriage. Kyle makes an offer that Dominic can't resist.<br />When Meriel was little her parents were murdered in India and she was captured and made a slave until her release to her uncles years later. Since then she hasn't spoken a word and lived at the family home with 2 elderly aunts and her Indian caretaker. Due to her strange behavior, she is thought to be insane. But during Dominic's visit, he sees little things that contradict what is thought of her and he seeks to uncover the truth of Meriel's capture and her behavior the whole time making everyone think he is Kyle. There are complications when his father and sister show up for a visit and she recognizes him as being Dominic. It is a great story that really keeps you going. MP does a good job of twisting things around to keep the reader intrigued. A recommended read.	2003-08-21
US	35316077	R2TCR3RZMS4WZ6	0440211077	859877142	Keeper of the Dream	Books	5	11	12	N	N	&quot;Same song, second verse&quot;...  IT  IS  NOT!	A wonderful romance book that will not disappoint you. In fact, I have yet to be disappointed in any of PW's books. One reviewer wrote &quot;Do you want beautiful prose, rich characters and a story line that is not the 'same song second verse'?&quot; And I couldn't agree more!!! <br />The year is 1157 and Lady Arianna's brother killed and his castle Rhuddlan is captured by the illegitimate son of the late Earl of Chester, Raine - or better known as the Black Dragon. Lady Arianna is taken hostage. Raine's half-brother wants the castle for himself and approachs King Henry II for ownership. To be able to claim the castle as his, Raine must fight his half-brother in a tournament. In the end the winner gets the castle and weds Lady Arianna.<br />The story is one of sibling rivalry and never being good enough for a father's love. Being dedicated to her family and Welsh countrymen, Arianna fights Raine and his English ways constantly until she allows herself to see another side of him. It is a story of eternal love with a wonderful ending. I highly recommend it. You will no doubt enjoy it!!!	2003-08-05
US	35316077	RRBV0K0NRJ05T	0373835167	134208010	Dark Stranger	Books	5	6	6	N	N	He came riding by in the nick of time...	Heard of the saying \\"timing is everything\\"? Well, his sure was.<BR>Kristin McCahy was struggling to hold her family and land together out west while the battles of the Civil War were still taking place in the north and south. The families in Missiouri and Kansas were having their own wars with John Brown supports coming through ravishing the land and killing when the Union supports weren't around and visa-versa. Kristin had already lost her papa when a group came through killing and burning. Then her brother left to go fight on the Union side. So her sister and she were trying to hold things down on the ranch until her brother came back when a group of riders came by determined to rape her and destroy the homeplace. And then along came Cole Slater riding by. All it took was his sharp shootin' to change the minds of the riders but a threat was left as they rode off that they would be back. Now Kristin was going to have to convince Cole to stick around to give them protection. But when Kristin gave Cole a proposition- Cole told her it was going to be his way or no way... So how does marriage come into play? I'll let you discover that.<br />It's a great story. HG doesn't let her readers down. Cole is mysterious and leads the reader to want to know more about him. The passion that is between him and Kristin is strong- along with the relationship Kristin has with her sister and then brother and the relationship between Cole and his 2 brothers really adds to the story. The reader won't be disappointed. I really enjoyed and highly suggest it! Now I am looking for Rides A Hero.	2003-07-31
US	35316077	R1NN0VU75AU5KN	0440241111	729777684	Slightly Scandalous	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It was great!	Lady Freyja Bedwyn heads to Bath to avoid the arrival and celebration of her previous love's (Kit, Viscount Ravensburg of A Summer To Remember) first expecting child. There she meets Joshua, Marquess of Hallmere, the \\"catch of the season.\\" They have previously met under unusual circumstances inwhich he stole a kiss and she punched him in the nose. Joshua's aunt is conniving to marry Joshua off to her daughter/his cousin so the family will still be in control of their homeplace of which Joshua has inherited. To get his aunt off his back, Joshua suggest that he and Freyja fake an engagment between themselves with plans to break it off when his aunt goes back home, disappointed that her plans were not successful. Freyja jumps at the opportunity of mischief and the engagment is announced during a ball- while they have a wonderful time playing up the part of \\"stary-eyed lovers\\". It only takes the next day for Freyja's oldest brother the Duke of Bewcastle to show up and confront Freyja and Joshua about the engagement. Unable to tell the truth with fear of what the Duke will do with such a story and the possibility of Joshua's aunt finding out the truth, Freyja and Joshua are forced to play the part of the betrothed. Wulf (the Duke) demands that Freyja and Joshua return to Bewcastle to be introduced to the family and for a celebration with the community. Now the escapades really begin with humor, sadness and even a little murder plotting thrown in.<br />I had put off reading it, worried that I would be disappointed (why I don't know)- but I wasn't. I knew Freyja wanted to escape her feelings for Kit (A Summer to Remember) and MB did a wonderful job of writing such an escape. But MB did a great job inter-twining the stories/characters from previous books and I really enjoyed \\"hearing\\" what was happening in everyone else's lives. It was like hearing about old friends and then to see them participate in Freyja's story was a treat. I can't imagine anyone being disappointed with this story!!! Now, I'm waiting for Wulf's story...	2003-07-29
US	35316077	R1XK6E170D90DF	0446306177	521621685	Amanda Rose	Books	3	18	21	N	N	I'm straddling the fence on this one...	It's the 1840's at a convent in England where Amanda Rose was taken to live by her hateful half-brother years ago after her father's death. She just received notice that he has arranged a marriage for her. Thru this marriage he will be able to obtain her inheritance money. Being the free spirit that she is, she wonders the beach when she can escape without notice by the nuns. It is during one of these times that Amanda runs upon Matt Grayson's battered body. He reveals to her the trouble that he is in but there is something about him that makes her want to help him. For this reason Amanda takes Matt to a cave that she knows about for hiding.<br />Matt Grayson is a ship & merchant owner from New Orleans and has been to England on business. During a business deal Matt was drugged, later to be woken up to police arresting him for the murder of an influencial family in England. Thru chance he escapes the hangman's rope (being shot during the escape) and ends up on a beach down below a convent while trying to wait for his ship to return for him.<br />Matt trust Amanda not to turn him in when police show up at the convent to arrest him. Amanda runs to warn Matt, leading the police right to him. Matt thinking Amanda has turned him in runs out to the sea to escape. His body isn't found but is believed to have drowned. Amanda's brother finds out that she has been hiding Matt and threatens to turn her in if she doesn't cooperate by marrying his suitor. Mourning Matt's death and her future, Amanda wonders out on the beach one night to be kidnapped by some of Matt's men and brother. She is taken to his ship to sail to New Orleans. Amanda finds out that Matt is still alive. And thinking Amanda turned him in, Matt is out for revenge. He will use Amanda sexually until he tires of her than plans to \\"throw her to the side.\\" Those are his plans until feelings get in the way and Amanda's brother shows up in New Orleans to take her back to England. Matt's brother is really my favorite.It was a good story but was pretty chopped up at times, which normally isn't like KB's writing.<br />I really would like to rate this one a 3 1/2 stars. It is a sweet read, but there are so many better ones out there. I would recommend reading it but it is not a keeper for me. And it's not KR's best.	2003-07-24
US	35316077	R3OHIOT0LEOIH0	0373254210	530149126	The Dream Unfolds (Crosslyn Rise, Book 2)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Want a fun &quot;one night&quot; read?	This is it. This was my first BD book and I really enjoyed it. Gideon is part of a group that is developing an apartment complex. He is also the contractor of it. He is well liked, very much a &quot;got it under control&quot; kind of guy, single, and is good-lookin'. Chris, real cute with great legs (a perspective interior designer for the project), shows up on the site distracting the workers causing a delay in the work and has a run in with Gideon. Chris gets the job- but not with Gideon's help. In fact, he lets it be known that he is not looking forward to working with her. She is too out-spoken, opinionated, etc. The run-ins continue until realizing they are going to have to work close together a truce is called. Gideon ask Chris to lunch to smooth things over and it is at lunch that he realizes he really does like her. Now he has to persuade her to give it a try. Chris is interested but there is a part of her past that holds her back. And now, you the reader, must find out what that is. It really is a lot of fun with sweet humor to it at times.	2003-07-24
US	35316077	R5EV18NON20D8	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	4	2	3	N	N	It really is a cute story!	At first I had reservations. Jane's sneaking around to have sex with Cal really got on my nerves. But when the story got past that it really got cute with good humor and I really enjoyed it. Cal Bonner is the star quarterback for the Chicago Stars. He is in his late-thirties and is fighting to hold onto his position. But physically it is becoming harder and harder to do. He just isn't ready to give it up though and what for? What would he do if he didn't have football in his life? He has been taught strong values by his parents about marriage commitment and pictures getting married and having kids as being put out into the pasture as far as football is concerned. He is not ready to face that yet. So he fights it by partying with the younger members on the team and dating only YOUNG women in no older than 24, preferably 21.<br />Dr. Jane Darlington just turned 34 and her biggest desire is to have a child but forget about the husband. She is independent and looks at having a husband as having unnecessary baggage. But she is picky about who she wants for the father of her child. To equal out the IQ of the child, Jane wants someone dumb to equal out her HIGH IQ. When she is offered the opportunity to be the \\"present\\" to a football player from the other team members, she thinks 'why not? football players are dumb right?!' It works. Jane is pregnant and Cal knows nothing of it- until a football fan who wants Cal's attention gets jealous and leaks out the information that Cal has fathered a baby. Cal is now out for revenge and forces Jane into marriage so his child will have a name. Due to the publicity (the press is having a time with this news) Cal and Jane are forced to live together for the next 3 months before spring training making everyone believe this is a match made in heaven. Cal's family gets involved and things really \\"mushroom.\\"<br />Jane is real cute, real smart but nerdy- brought up in a broken family and really needs someone to love her. Cal is extremely good looking and plays the \\"dumb football\\" part real well. But he is actually \\"a brain\\" having graduated with honors from college in biology. He comes from a strong family that is very involved with each other.<br />It is a great story! and I very much recommend it! It's a keeper!	2003-07-22
US	35316077	R1L2ORQSGF3MQ0	0440241049	880815333	Slightly Married	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Better than slightly good!	Hey, I liked it. It is true to MB's form of writing. It is the 1st of the Bedwyn Series- Colonel Lord Aidan Bedwyn promises a dying soldier (of whom he owes a debt) to not only deliver a message of his death to his only sister in person but also to protect her. Later he finds out the only way of doing that is by offering marriage to Eve Morris, giving her the protection of his name. The offer is made and the arrangement is agreed upon for a wedding by special licence (since time is against them) and then to go separate ways, still married but never to see each other again.  Aidan will return to his occupation in the military (with no-longer the possibility of marrying the general's daughter and be his companion during war campaigns). Eve will return to her home without the threat of no chance of becoming homeless and having to turn out those that have become dependent on her (and no-longer the possibility of marrying a former sweetheart/lover that promised to return any day now and announce their engagement). But when the Duke of Bewcastle (Aidan's oldest brother, head of the family) finds out that Lady Aidan exist he has other plans for Eve and its not to stay at home but to be in London with Aidan. A wife's place is beside her husband in society, right?! Even if she is the daughter of a deceased coal miner- she is a bedwyn now and must be presented to society and the family! A plan that was so simply to take place turns upside down. It is a sweet heart-throbbing story of of 2 souls thrown together and love to be discovered. A great read, highly recommended.	2003-07-15
US	35316077	R1H1ALEZ225JRF	0440241057	429766150	Slightly Wicked (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good ... but not my favorite of the "Slightly" series	Ok- here goes... this wasn't my favorite of the Slightly series. This is just my opinion but I did like Slightly Married a lot better. For some reason I connected with those characters better. I am still giving it a 4 star. The story is a good one and was still a page-turner for me. Anyway... <br />Judith Law is off to live with her aunt and uncle after her family running into financial difficulties. During the trip she runs into some unfortunate weather causing a stage coach accident. It is during this time that Rannulf Bedwyn comes along and offers assistance in reporting the accident to authorities  in the nearest town. It is during this time that he sees Judith and offers her a ride with him by horseback. She takes him up on the offer seeing one of her last chances of adventure ahead of her. After they arrive in town Rannulf, being the wealth playboy that he is, introduces himself using a false identity of Ralph Bedard and offers to get a room for them to share in a local inn (leading the keeper and his wife to believe they are newlyweds). Judith, not wanting him to know her real identity- leads him to believe that she is an actress named Claire Campbell, instead of the daughter of a preacher. Due to the bad weather it turns into a 2 day affair- ending in the early morning of the 3rd day as Judith sneaks away. She arrives at her aunt's to find out she is thought of as a burden, to be a companion for her grandmother, and is to be treated little above a servant. Her cousin, Julianne, is getting ready for her season out in society and Judith's aunt wants no distractions. So Judith is dressed to hide her beauty with large drab dresses, caps, shawls, etc. <br />Feeling that he has been take advantage of by Claire running off like that- Rannulf arrives at his matchmaking grandmother's who thinks it is time for him to settle down and has made arrangements for him to meet a new young woman about to come out in society- Julianne. It is at her house party that Rannulf, who is attending with his grandmother, that he sees Judith. But can it be? She looks nothing like the beautiful and exciting Claire Campbell with gorgeous red hair. But those eyes are the same. Judith is as surprised as he is- both realize the decept of false identities. Judith is embarrassed for Rannulf to discover the truth of her financial needs and life of spinisterhood. Rannulf can't stand the thought of a life with the pretty but silly, self-centered, fortune \\"husband-hunting\\" Julian when he has experienced the lovely and caring Judith. But how is he going to explain his taking a below class woman for a wife to his family when he is expected to marrying within his social class to uphold his possible future title of Duke of Bewcastle? Then things are thrown into a world-spin when Judith is accused of stealing her grandmother's jewels and runs away. Knowing there is no way she would have done it- Rannulf heads out to find the truth. It is a definite enjoyable read. My favorite was the grandmother- she was so fun and loving. Judith was alright- her jumping into bed with Rannulf was a little too easy, though. I never really liked Rannulf. There were times Rannulf's arrogance got old and I agree with another reviewer about his being shallow. He wasn't my favorite of brothers- Rannulf, Aidan, and Wulf (I can't wait for his story!).	2003-07-15
US	35316077	R1SD2E8J7CLBFU	0515118230	207017783	Home Song	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Tom felt like he was looking at his image of 25 years ago.	I first had mixed feelings about reading this one, but then I decided I needed to give it a chance- and now I am glad I did. It's a really good read! Now about the story... Tom Gardner is the principal at the local high school, happily married with his first wife, Claire of 18 years, who teaches English at the same high school and they have 2 good kids of whom are both at the high school. Things change when Kent Arens walks into Tom's office as a transfer student. Tom's first reaction to Kent is like looking at himself 25 years ago. Kent is accompanied with his mother, Monica whom Tom recognizes from college days. And then Tom starts getting a sickening feeling. There was that one night- the night of his bachelor party, the night before his wedding to Claire when he made the fatal mistake of getting drunk and making-out with the pizza delivery girl. He has always felt guilty of that night- the one time he was unfaithful to Claire. And then it was because he had felt cornered into getting married. Claire had come to him and told him that she was pregnant. He had just graduated from college and had been looking forward to having a time of fun and freedom but now he was being tied down. It had been purely an act of rebellion. He had never told Claire but had tried making it up to her by being a good and loving husband... and they were the happiest they had ever been. How could this have happened? Was it possible for him to have another son the same age as his present son that he had with Claire? What was this going to do to his family? How would they react? And what would people there at the school say? Tom was so well thought of and Tom and Claire were thought to have the ideal marriage. What about Kent? He was the ideal son-great grades, out-standing athlete, well-liked and thought of, and his mother's life. He had never known his father-had no idea who he was and what the situation was between his mother and father. How was he going to take having a father step intohis life now? The story is so realistic... you can't help but feel for the characters involved, you really feel their hurt. Once again LS makes you really think and get involved in the story. It's a good story and I highly recommend it.	2003-07-14
US	35316077	R2KCZY4VO37AYV	0743453468	422431630	Whispers at Midnight (Robards, Karen)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	He's watching you...	Carly Linton has returned with a girlfriend to her hometown after a difficult divorce to establish a B&B in her deceased grandmother's home. They arrive to find the local county sheriff crawling around in the dark under the porch, after having received a call from a nosy elderly neighbor claiming she saw something suspicious there. He turns out to be Matt Converse, whom Carly was best friends with thru high school until prom night when they got carried away and went all the way sexually. Matt was embarrassed by his lack of control and avoided her after that leaving Carly hurt and puzzled. Now he is the county sheriff and is investigating the disappearance of Marsha Hughes. When Carly starts to get settled in someone threatens her and Matt vows to keep her safe-even if the only way is for her and her girlfriend to move into his home that he shares with 3 younger sisters. Talk about Matt being out-numbered now with a all female home. This time allows for the feelings that Carlyl and Matt both felt for each other years ago to be explored and sparks to turn into flames. And all along someone is stalking Carly. It is a romantic suspence thriller with humor thrown in at times. I agree it's not KR's best- but it's still worth the read.	2003-07-14
US	35316077	RQU7KMEG93986	0446605972	917004128	The Passions of Emma	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This is a good one!!!	It is one of my favorites, too! It's different read and PW is one of my favorite authors. The year is the late 1890's and the place is Rhode Island during victorian times. It is during an annual fox hunt that Emma Tremayne, a high-society beauty that is engaged to be married to her childhood friend, meets Shay McKenna, an impoverished Irish revolutionist. He is at first the mystery man without a name who works for her fiance, to Emma. Emma has been born into a luxurious, social world that requires her to separate herself from the common people. But Emma's heart wants to reach out to those less fortunate that her. She starts visiting local mill-factory (of which her fiance owns) families, becoming best-friends with married pregnant millworker with 2 girls- Bria McKenna. During visits Bria opens Emma's eyes up to unconditional love and friendship. It is during her visits that she meets Shay McKenna again- Bria's husband. She observes the strong love, passion, and devotion Bria and Shay have for one another, realizing that is what she wants. She loves her fiance- they have always been best friends and there is a love for one another, but not a passionate love. It is revealed that Bria is dying of consumption but no one wants to speak of it or admit to it until Bria forces Shay and Emma to accept that she will not be with them much longer and that she wants them to lean on each other to fill the void. Emma has never told Bria that she feels a desire for Shay. It is definitely a complex story of devotion to each other and strong passionate love. Emma's mother feels threatened and severely punishes her for the bond Emma has developed with the lower class. It is heart breaking. The chemistry is strong all the way through the book between Bria, Shay, and Emma- definitely a triangle! I highly recommend the book- it is definitely a keeper for me!	2003-07-11
US	35316077	R1OMYV8S4S69ZL	0743454324	595541500	The Price: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	What is too high a PRICE to pay!	This is my 1st book by JJ to read- the 1st of the Blackthornes and Creeds lasaga and I really enjoyed it. I am now in the process of looking for the other 3. I never was lost by not reading the other books first. The author did a great job of filling in what had taken place previously so I felt up on what was going on. There were several sub-characters and their stories but I didn't feel like they were taking away from the main characters. The story was great up to the end. I highly recommend it.<br />Now a little about the story itself... Luke Creed finds out during his first visit back at his mom's place that his old high school sweetheart, Amy Hazeltine Nash, is back in town. What a surprise since they have not seen each other since their break up 12 years ago. Both married others, had children, and are now back \\"licking wounds\\" from torn apart marriages. They are also both attorneys and are soon to find out that they are on opposing sides of a lawsuit. But Luke doesn't feel good about the pharmaceutical company's new drug that his firm is representing. There have been several deaths of children that have taken the drug (coincidental or cover-up?) and the fact that his oldest daughter is taking the drug complicates the matter even more. Just seeing Amy brings back all sorts of feelings and memories- Luke knows he has never gotten over his love for her and now that she is back and single during a stressful time of his life complicates things that much more but he is not going to throw-away a second chance for happiness. Now he just has to convince Amy of taking that second chance. Things get serious and even deadly for some as information is uncovered about the new drug for diabetes. A page turner for me... I hope you give it a try.	2003-07-10
US	35316077	R2PE2ZX5CCR4AE	0440226015	466643093	More than a Mistress (The Mistress Trilogy)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Don't interfere if YOU see a duel taking place...	That's when it all started, you know. Jane was on her way to work early one morning when she saw a duel about to take place in the park. She screamed to stop the 2 unknown men from shooting each other. Jocelyn Dudley, Duke of Tresham, hesitated but was fired upon by his opponent and wounded in the leg. A \\"bachelor for life\\", a rich rake and accomplished duelist- Jocelyn was then furious at Jane. He confronted her for being disruptive while Jane scolded him for risking his life foolishly. Her employer doesn't believe her story when she is late to work and wants proof of a letter from the Duke or Jane loses her job. When she arrives at the home of Tresham for the letter- Jocelyn tells her the least she should do is stay on as his nurse for 3 weeks of recuperating. She does so needing a place to hide. He makes a terrible patient. But their relationship blossoms and after he recovers he ask Jane to stay on as his mistress. Jane accepts hoping she can continue hiding- thinking she has killed a man that was trying to rape her and knows she is being looked for. It is a story of a love-hate relationship between 2 very strong willed people that don't know if they can get around obstacles to be truly happy. Very intense at times. Another good MB read!	2003-07-09
US	35316077	R14WPIQD693KNG	0515101222	64032814	Spring Fancy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	She's engaged to the wrong Mr. Right!	Have you ever met someone and thought &quot;what if we had met sooner?&quot; Well... this is one of those stories. Winn Gardner is engaged to be married in 3 short months and is the maid-of-honor for her best friend's wedding. At the dress rehearsal she meets Joseph Duggan, the best man. Though both are best friends to the bride and groom they have never met each other- and are attracted the minute they lay eyes on each other. She loves her fiance, Paul, so why is Joseph confusing her mind? Joseph is wondering where Winn has been all of his life and sets out to cause Winn to question whether Paul is the one for her. Circumstances force Winn and Joseph to spend time together. Winn sees that Paul and Joseph are complete opposites. So how can one fall in love with 2 such opposite men? Paul is good-looking, with everything about him in place from his clothes,his work, to his life and future. Joseph is nothin' special to look at but has a wonderful personality, loves family and friends, and a real romantic. The more time Winn spends with Joseph she realizes he is everything she wants in a man and Paul is everything her mom wants her to have in a man. So which one is Mr. Right? And how can she disappoint her mom and hurt Paul when he has done nothing wrong? A sweet and WONDERFUL story that will keep you turning pages til the last one!	2003-07-09
US	35316077	R27BUGSJLU3QLF	0449231437	147755090	NEVER CALL IT LOVING	Books	4	5	6	N	N	His love for Lady Ireland won out in the end...	Katharine O'Shea is the trophy wife of Captain William O'Shea. For years there has been no love between the 2 of them, for Willie has thought only of bettering himself, leaving Kate &amp; their 3 children to be supported by her elderly aunt. Now has come a time when Willie has decided that he wants to go into politics and Kate is to help him by holding a dinner in honor of Charles Stewart Parnell, considered the laymen's King of Ireland. Kate, who has never known true love- sees something is this new face that is exciting, caring, and dedicated to his family and the people of Ireland. Charles sees a beauty of love that has never been unleashed. It is a story of a love affair between 2 people that went thru hell for each other- Kate with her family, friends &amp; neighbors against her, and Charles with the politicians and people of Ireland pulling him. But Kate finally won only to give Charles back to Ireland through sudden death.<br />This is a reprint from the original back in 1966. I pulled this one off the library shelf remembering it being a dear book I had read in the early 70's during high school. The story is taken from a diary that was kept by Katharine (Kitty) O'Shea Parnell that DE discovered and then based her fictional biography on to tell Kitty and Charles' &quot;sides of the story.&quot; I realized while reading it how romance writing has changed- for the passion wasn't boldly described, but I could still feel it. Dorothy Eden was a precious author during her time and this would have been a good story for rewrite- to some it will be dry but the story there is good.	2003-07-09
US	35316077	R1KE925BJMOFYO	0440226007	880815333	One Night for Love (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	STOP the wedding, he's already married...to ME!	Wouldn't that be a shocker...Major Neville Wyatt marries Lily Doyle, the daughter of a fatally wounded sergeant, on the battlefield to assure her protection. As his wife, she will be given respect if captured (at least that's what he's been told). Her life has been that of following the army with her father and Neville has had a secret desire for her for a long time now. The following morning during a surprise raid, Lily is shot, thought to be dead, while Neville is wounded and moved out of enemy lines. Neville returns home and 18 months later he is going through with the wedding/planned marriage to a woman, Lauren (A Summer To Remember) whom he grew up with- was like a sister to him and chosen by his family. He has not mentioned the marriage to Lily for that would only bring pain to his family and is &quot;dead and buried.&quot; He thinks. As the bride prepares to join her groom down the aisle, Lily runs in, making the announcement that he is already married to her! Neville learns that for the past 1 1/2 years Lily has been a prisoner/forced-mistress to a spanish military officer, who just recently was forced to release her. The wedding to stopped, explanations made- but do they go from here? Lily doesn't have the background to be the wife of the Earl of Kilbourne. It is a wonderful regency romance to be followed with A SUMMER TO REMEMBER.	2003-07-09
US	35316077	RLA5W1HEVQKCB	0446364150	153374809	Hidden Fires	Books	4	89	90	N	N	What a change from other SB Books!	Set in the territory of Texas during the 1800's, Lauren Holbrook accepts the position of the family secretary offered by Mr. Lockett to escape her life of confinement as the preacher's daughter. When she arrives, she discovers that her dreams are no more. Mr. Lockett has died of a heart attack and his widow is hostile towards Lauren, thinking Lauren is a former mistress of Lockett's. To keep from being dismissed and sent home, Lauren accepts the proposal of an arranged marriage (purely a business arrangement only) to their son and heir, Jared Lockett. Jared is rebellious and wild- not ready to settle down, but will follow through to please his demanding mother. Lauren stumbles upon family secrets- and things start to crumble and be revealed to Jared. It's a good read... the marriage is to be in name only, but Jared and Lauren find passion and truth.	2003-07-09
US	35316077	R309T0C9I73ZG3	0515090654	553735563	Twice Loved	Books	5	3	3	N	N	She married his best friend...	The year is 1837 and today is the day- for five lonely years, handsome Rye Dalton dreamed of the day he would return home to Nantucket and to his beloved wife's soft tender kisses and her warm embraces. His wife Laura, to whom he is returning, is his childhood sweetheart. Things still look the same- the town, his house... but they're not. Less than a year after Rye sailed away word came back that his whaling ship had sunk taking all of the lives on it. Laura, long since believing Rye was dead, has married another man. He was there from the beginning to support Laura and help care for her and Rye's infant son- born 8 1/2 months after Rye left. He is the only father the boy has every known. He is non-other Rye's closest friend, Dan Morgan.<br />Now begins the questions - who is Laura legally married to now? and Who will she finally decide to share her life with? A great read!!!	2003-07-07
US	35316077	RD6XXA1GTS2BK	0440208297	150818208	One Summer	Books	4	18	18	N	N	This was a twist- Younger guy / Older Woman...	I am slowly going through KR's books and this is one of her older ones- but it was worth reading! It kind of reminded me of LaVyrle Spencer's books (she's great if you haven't discovered her yet). The chemistry between Johnny and Rachel was great- made for a good story!<br />Johnny Harris is from the \\"other side of the tracks.\\" Everyone said he was trouble just because of his last name was Harris- but it was \\"proven\\" when he was sent to prison for the murder of his girlfriend. Now 11 years later he is placed parole and granted a job in the town's local hardware store due to the grace of Rachel Grant, his \\"old\\" English teacher from high school. (She always did doubt his being guilty of murder.) <br />Boy, does Johnny cause a stir in the town when he arrives and it doesn't help his having a \\"bad-boy\\" attitude. Rachel is constantly getting him out of scrapes. But he starts revealing his hurt to her, allowing her a look within his heart- while he also reveals the feelings he has always had for her going back to when she taught him in high school. He is no longer the fine lookin' \\"bad-boy\\" in school, but is now the strikingly handsome man from prison and, remember, there is a 5 year age difference but does that really matter now? And he sure isn't what Rachel would have considered \\"her type\\" of man but what about those feelings Johnny is now making her acknowledge as having?<br />Then another murder takes place- eleven years later with all of the same familiarities of the first one. How is Johnny connected to it? It gets very unrealistic towards the end- hey, it makes for a good story...  I would definitely rate this one as being an \\"oldie but goodie!\\"	2003-07-02
US	35316077	R2XC9ZE0PC6F6P	0671737848	920359075	Rebellious Desire	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I agree... its a romance to enjoy!	Being one of JG's early romances- it is still one that the reader can enjoy...  Raised in Boston while living with her uncle and family, Caroline Richmond is sent for by her father to return to England after fourteen years of being away. It is during her travel time to her father's country home that Caroline, her cousin- Charity, and her protector- Benjamin happen upon a robbery and possible murder. Caroline being the sharp shotter that she is wounds one of the attackers, scaring them off and making it possible to aid the one attacked. He has been shot where else but in the thigh between his legs. While Caroline is administering medical aid, the Duke of Bradford, a friend of the one attacked, comes upon the scene and is taken back by Caroline's beauty and self-confidence but doesn't learn of her identity. So now the chase for Bradford is on to find out who the unidentified beauty is... After arriving and becoming acquainted with a father that she has not seen in 14 years, it is time for Caroline to take her right place as the Earl of Braxton's daughter. It is at a ball that Bradford discovers Caroline and confirms in his heart that he must have her. And what Bradford wants- Bradford gets, at least he has in the past! But both having strong personalities and definite opinions of what a relationship is to contain- well, let's just say the battle is on. It is funny seeing Bradford experience jealousy from other men falling all over Caroline for attention- when in the past women have been the ones falling all over Bradford. Interesting, the shoe being on the other foot... In the mean time, someone is trying to scare Caroline back to Boston... which get's Bradford in an uproar over Caroline's safety. Hey, I liked it! What do I say? Read it and see for yourself- just remember it is one of JG's earlier books. She got better as she wrote and is now one of my favorite authors.	2003-06-30
US	35316077	R13M7LWSLXMMHX	0743437845	922629044	No True Gentleman (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Definitely a GREAT read!	I saw where a reviewer listed this as being her favorite- and I can definitely see why she listed this one. Lady Catherine Woodway has been a childless widow for a while due to a hunting accident. She is visiting an aunt that insist on her attending activities of the ton. Catherine is attractive, spunky, curious and very honest when dealing with others. She would much rather spend time quietly and is constantly looking for times to escape from the rush of everyday activities while living in London. It is during one of these escapes during early dawn that she places herself in the middle of a police corruption case that Maximilian De Rohan, policeman and magistrate from the Home Office, has been investigating for a while. To hid his and Catherine's identity and keep the suspects from becoming suspicious, Max has to act quickly- by grabbing her into a Lover's Embrace (one of those \\"heart-stoppers\\", \\"toe curler\\", never-to-be-forgotten kisses!). From this kiss Catherine has feelings that she has never felt before and tries to pursue a relationship that Max constantly fights. He has been down such a road before with bad results and vowed never to trust another again. But with his heart, his grandmother and cousin's meddling, and Catherine's constant availability - he doesn't have a chance. Then a murder takes place drawing in several within the ton as being suspicious, one being Catherine's brother, and Max is put on the case to solve- throwing Max and Catherine together one more time. <br />The characters are wonderful- with several secondary characters that really help make the story that much more interesting. There is never a dull moment with love scenes are passionate and bits of humor... Well, it wasn't slow read for me and is one that I highly recommend- hope you enjoy it, too. It definitely won't be won't be my last LC book to read!	2003-06-30
US	35316077	R3KI90OFIGQ6JR	0451406893	348272838	Rebel (Florida Civil War)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The McKenzie saga continues...	Ian McKenzie arrives home for a short visit from fighting on the Union side during the Civil War. At the beginning of his visit with his family he finds himself in a compromising position with a friend of the family's daughter, Alaina McMann, and to save her reputation and embarrassment to the 2 families he carries her off to be married. There is definitely attraction there and could grow to be a strong love but their strong opposing views of the war get in the way. Ian goes off to serve the Union side while Alaina begins participating in a smuggling ring for the Confederacy- and they clash each time they come together. Ian is handsome, strong and protective of Alaina while serving his devotion to the Union cause. He meets his match when he discovers that the Confederate spy he is working at capturing is non-only his own Alaina (this is revealed to the reader at the beginning of the book). The reader learns how Ian gets Alaina out of such a mess. Is their new love strong enough to survive such a test? And will Ian beable to save Alaina from the rope? They hang spies, you know! I enjoyed it. Great read!	2003-06-27
US	35316077	R30R6WUFKH59VX	0440215994	567664822	The Senator's Wife	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Don't  "listen" to other reviews-read it for yourself!	I read the reviews and then read the book afraid that this was going to be one that I put down before finishing. But I didn't come out with the same results as other reviewers. Ronnie was raised in a poor, torn-up family, with little love. She set the goals of marrying wealthy so she would never have to do without again. She was even careful with her reputation and didn't date just anybody. In her college years she met a wealthy older man that had it all. His first marriage had had problems and was in its final stage (all that was left was signing the papers). He offered Ronnie a job in his political arena and started pursuing her heavily. Finding out that it was going to take marriage before he could get her in bed he made the offer. Marriage! Thinking he would have a young, beautiful, \\"trophy\\" wife. He continued having other woman, though. By their third year Ronnie was on longer giving him rights to her bed due to his other affairs. Divorce wasn't a question, though, due to her husband's political career for re-election. A 2nd divorce would ruin his chance for re-election.<br />I do feel that KR made her characters rather shallow for the reader, not giving us enough information to feel some warm for them. But I did not come away feelig like other readers did about Ronnie and Tom. Ronnie was young & beautiful, with her guard up since she was the 2nd wife, accused of breaking up a marriage (though it was on the rocks before she even showed up). She thought having material things and money would feel the void of love until she found someone that showed her kindness and later on love. Remember (if you have already read it), that Ronnie had not reached out to any other man during her marriage until Tom came on the scene. So she was trying to deal with it.<br />Tom was hired by Ronnie's husband as a campaign adviser to help get his campaign back on track. He, himself, was in the process of rebuilding his business with his partner and was good at his business. He started working with Ronnie, seeing right off a woman that was being treated harshly by the public as well as being alone in her private life. He reached out to her with lust in his mind when they first got together sexually- but then it turned into love, realizing that they cared for each other. Doesn't that happen in a lot of relationships?<br />Then there is the murder of the senator and Ronnie is accused of doing it. It turns into a \\"who done it\\" story. It's not the best I have read, but it sure isn't the worse, either. I really wanted to judge it with a 3 1/2 stars but felt bad about all of the other low reviews that I went with a 4 stars. Read it for yourself and see what you think!	2003-06-24
US	35316077	ROUFZNNW9Z32H	0671042491	504554345	Springwater Wedding	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not as bad as some of the reviews suggest!	Apparently, from the other reviews, either you'll like it or you won't. I am in the middle of the road. I wished for more sparks between Maggie and JT- the romance was watered-down some. But the story was sweet. Maggie and JT go way back and because of family interference and misunderstandings they ended up with others and went through individual divorces - only to come back home to Springwater finding each other and renewing a relationship once again. Excitment is added with cattle poisoning, murder, and someone stalking Maggie. There are sub-characters that add a lot to the story as well. I suggest reading it but I don't know if I would recommend buying it. But it is a sweet read.	2003-06-24
US	35316077	R1NM8LRPKOCI10	0515102636	995847624	Morning Glory	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of my ALL TIME favorites!!!	I, too, won't go into the story since so many have already. Great romance with a great story line. You can't help but feel for the characters. The setting is during WWII. Will has just gotten out of prison for a causing death to a woman that was an accident but was charged with murder. He just wants to settle down in a community where he can forget his past and move on with life- but the past seems to constantly follow him, causing him to move from community to community. Will has such a sweet caring heart but needs someone to give hime a chance and believe in him. Elly has been the talk of the community all her life due to her grandparents religious believes and family tragedy. She is a pregnant widow with two little boys to raise and no one to fall back on. She is a \\"plain-jane\\" with an inner beauty that needs someone to care and nurture. Elly has to really work at feeling secure. They find out that they both need each other in different ways. It is during a time when life was hard and a lot simpler- when people reached out to one another. A wonderful story that you won't be able to put down and it has a little bit of everything in it. You won't be disappointed, promise!!!	2003-06-24
US	35316077	R23V2TORN5L5BJ	0515102636	995847624	Morning Glory	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of my all time favorites!	I, too, won't go into the story since so many have already. Great romance with a great story line. You can't help but feel for the characters. Will had such a sweet caring heart but someone to believe in him. It felt good to find a story where the herione isn't gorgeous- but yet a rather plain girl with a inner beauty that needed someone to care. Elly had to really work at feeling secure. They both needed each other in different ways. I have always been interested in the 1930's, 40's, & 50's since that was when my parents grew up, dated and married. Times were difficult but a lot simpler then and people reached out to one another. A wonderful story that you won't be able to put down and it has a little bit of everything in it. You won't be disappointed, promise!!! I bought the book for my personal library. Don't pass this one up. So far it's my LS favorite!	2003-06-12
US	35316077	R3ASL9WENT9HR5	0446610550	627176291	The Playboy (The Chandler Brothers, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun & light reading	Hey, I enjoyed it! Rick Chandler is the town's policeman that is good looking, single (married only months before divorced), respected, well liked- just an all around heart throb! In fact every single woman in town is after his buns! ha, ha!!! And he is dodging them right a left. That is until Kendall Sutton drives up in town literally after leaving her own wedding before the \\"I do's\\" were said. Rick is called out by 911 to check on her and loses his heart when he arrives. Kendall, who comes from a disfunctional family and has never been in one place very long, finds acceptance and love making it almost impossible to move on. Then comes the complications.<br />It is full of fun and warm fuzzy feelings. Sweet story that keeps you attention- I highly recommend it!  Now I am going to have to go back and read Book #1 The Bachelor!	2003-06-10
US	35316077	R1A9BZA1TS68DH	0446604771	322198911	The Outsider	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Great Read!!!!!	I really enjoyed this book and highly recommend it! This is my 2nd book by PW to read and she is becoming one of my favorites. You really get to know the characters and there are several stories going on at on time- so there is not a dull moment of read. You sure can't skip pages or even paragraphs without missing important detail.<br />Rachal Yoder (strong-willed, independent, God-fearing, \\"tom-boyish\\" but yet all-woman) is a widow of the Plain People (Amish) that settled in Montana. Still grieving for her husband that was mistakenly hung (so the towns people say) for cattle stealing, Rachal is trying to make a go of it on their sheep farm for their 10 yr. old son's sake. It is understood that to remarry it must be with someone in their community- and there are several men (other widowers) interested... But Rachal and Ben had had a special love that was not experienced by many of their belief and Rachal is not ready to settle for less. <br />Johnny Cain (tough, independent, loner, worldly, unbeliever, never been married and has no plans to) is a hired gunsman that wonders onto Rachal's property one day half dead after being in a gun fight. Fortunate that Rachal is not the type to turn her head and let him die, Johnny is nursed back to help, while experiencing feelings that he never knew existed- such as acceptance, caring, concern, and possibly love.<br />The Plains people community are stirred with an outsider being taken in causing concern and friction between Rachal and their deacons. In the meantime, there is a battle going on amongst the Towns people's cattle ranches and the Plain people's sheep farms that could get serious and possibly even deadly. WARNING! Don't jump ahead to the back to read the ending- it's a real \\"tear-jerker.\\" A definite recommended read! A keeper!	2003-06-06
US	35316077	RPD3HMI9IW4LF	0380385880	75448761	Shanna	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Talk about adventure and love!	I had to go back and read this one after reading many reviewers that mentioned this being their all time favorite. I can see why. It leaves nothing out. The love scenes are steamy, there is all sorts of adventure (prison in London, plantation home of the baron, pirates in the open sea and island, the colonies of the new world), murders, deception, and LOVE. It has it all- along with a breath-taking main characters in Shanna and Ruark. It has it all! Now this is a TRUE Kathleen Woodiwiss book! You definately won't be disappointed! And the Epiloge is great, too!!!	2003-06-06
US	35316077	RMMTUE88A764E	1551666634	404539221	Sweet Memories (Spencer, Lavyrle)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Different! But good!	It sure made me feel for those that are so \\"blessedly endowed.\\" Theresa is 25 years old living like an old spinster woman with her parents and little 14 year old sister, while her 21 year old brother is in Air Force Officer School. And she's got a lot going against her- carrot red hair, covered with the curse of freckles, and breast the size of volleyballs on her petite figure. Up til now she has done everything she knew to keep from drawing attention to her endowment such as dressing dull w/layers of sweaters & coats and no make-up. But that's about to change... Jeff shows up for the Christmas holidays with his best-friend and roomate, Bryan. Bryan (kind and considerate- a gentleman) is aware of Theresa's problem and past hurts from jealous girls and curious boys/men. He looks past her figure to see her heart and falls in love with it through the time spent with the family and at times where he is \\"thrown\\" together with Theresa to accompany Jeff and Jeff's girlfriend.<br />For the first time, Theresa has found someone who truly wants to be with her, spend time with her- not to just to get a grip in the boobs. She starts wanting to improve herself with makeup, a new hair-cut, and new clothes- and she starts liking what she sees- a new Theresa. But she won't allow Bryan to love her physically, being afraid- to trust him as well as being a turn-off to him physically. Theres doesn't know how anyone like her body when to her it is sooo ugly?<br />It's time for Jeff and Bryan to head back to the base after the holidays. Bryan and Theresa both experience a loss they have never experienced before. Then there is the sharing of sweet letters and the suggestion to spend Easter together away from the family to get to know each other and see if these feelings that are being felt have depth to them- a big step for Theresa who has never spent time along with a man and how will her parents react? And she knows Bryan is going to want to do more than just kiss. She wants to be morethan \\"another experience\\" to Bryan. Where is the commitment? Then there is the suggestion by the doctor to have a breast reduction due to physical problems she is prone to have with her back and shoulder due to the weight in front. But what will she be giving up, how will her parents react (they feel this is the body God give you, appreciate it) and what will Bryan think? <br />This is a story of trust, acceptance, caring, respect and love- where family is important and sticks together. It is a story of a woman learning to love and trust a man along with learning to love herself. A great read, but different. Enjoy!	2003-06-06
US	35316077	R1ZTG7T2SRTZ6B	0446353914	55486650	Night Magic	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Fast paced and Fun with romance	There is nothing slow about this book. It starts out with action.  Clara is a romance author, single, and appears to be settled in her dull and quiet life. But all that changes one night when the KGB show up at her home breaking down her door wanting to know where he is- where Magic Dragon is hiding. Her lastest book Magic Dragon is dedicated to the real Magic Dragon (her cat \\"poof\\"). She is now on the run for her life with a man she has never met but is thought to be her lover, Jack McClain, code name Magic Dragon - a CIA agent that is on the run for his life after coming across information of Russian spies in government positions. Jack is rough and tough, military all the way, 38 and single. He has had his share of women- and his \\"type\\" has never been like Clara- or has it and he just didn't know it. There is never a dull moment in this story. The cat plays an important part in the story, too. If you are a cat lover you'll enjoy it. Lots of fun, adverture, romance... I highly recommend it! Being my first Karen Robards book to read- I look forward to reading more by her.	2003-06-04
US	35316077	R2SQFR3LNQHA3R	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wouldn't being Lady Whistledown be fun!	Can you imagine secretively being able to give an account of some of the ridiculous happenings at socials to be published without others knowing you wrote them? It could be fun unless you are at the other end of the receiving line. This is a sweet romance about Peneloupe Featherington, the \\"wallflower\\" of the ton, who has had feelings for Collin Bridgerton since she was young. But she has gone unnoticed and accepts the fact of spinsterhood. Colin Bridgerton, member of the well-liked and wealthy Bridgerton family, started traveling when his mother put the squeeze on him to marry. Now after 10 years being abroad, he returns home for a visit only to discover that things have changed and that what he has been searching for was at home all along. LOVE! And all along \\"Lady Whistledown\\" is writing/publishing accounts of the Ton Events that are not always favorable. But just who is the mysterious Lady W? I also enjoyed Peneloupe and Eloise's friendship. This is a sweet romance, full of humor and lots of dialog that gets monotonous at times. Things seem to drag and don't really get going until half-way through the book.	2003-05-20
US	35316077	R3GN4JDJ060YXP	0312980159	272135612	Fast Women	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Humorous, sexy, and entertaining...	It's a fun read with humor, sexy scenes and overall entertaining. I agree with others that there are sooo many characters that it tends to be confusing at times. There were a couple of scenes that I felt uncomfortable with but I overlooked them and kept going. I have met a couple that was similar to Nell and Gabe so their relationship was not that unrealistic to me- Nell aggravated me alot of the times and I felt for Gabe. It was silly at times but, overall, it was a fun book to read.	2003-05-20
US	35316077	RG8JGH510UC36	0515123676	820561988	Irresistible	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The book is irresistible!	I did not realize unil now that this is the 3rd of a series- but, yet, I enjoyed it by itself. I just recently discovered MB books and really enjoy them. So far, they don't seem empty and silly. The characters are well-developed and intelligent. There isn't the silly conversations used to develope the story as in some books. <br />Nathaniel (Nat) Gascoigne is one of 4 friends that went thru war together being nicknamed the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. Since the war, 2 friends have settled down in marriage. Nat returned home to take over family obligations since his father's death but has no desire to marry. His ideal life is that of finding a widow that is interested in having a relationship without ties. First, though, he must find husbands for the last sister and cousin living at home. So off to London they go to participate in The Season of balls, parties, etc.<br />Sophia Armitage is a widow of a colleague of the Four Horsemen who died in the Peninsular War. While traveling with her husband she became close friends with the 4 men. She is now residing in London and comes across the 4 friends after losing contact with them over the last 3 years. Friendships are renewed- and after escorting her home after a party Nat and Sophie agree to try a relationship with no strings attached. Nat has no idea that Sophie has had a secret love for Nat all these years and discoveres that shy, plain, little Sophie has a side of desire, passion, and beauty to her that has been hidden all these years. But the relationship doesn't last long due to a blackmailer that threatens to bring light on his discovery if Sophie doesn't detach herself from her friends. But Nat is not satisfied with Sophie's reasoning for breaking this off and it determined to find the source of the problem.<br />The book has a good story to it that is one of passion. I highly recommend it and am looking forward to finding the first two- Indiscreet and Unforgiven that are about the 2 friends that are marriedin Irresistible.	2003-05-14
US	35316077	RX1ROIMZ6KN95	0440200873	574682933	Everytime I Love You	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Love that last an eternity	Sparks flew the minute they saw each other. Feelings were that strong. Once they laid eyes on each other- they couldn't take them off, literally. In the first night's time they were passionately involved and within a month Gayle Norman and Brent McCauley were married. Even others that came in contact of them said they were made for each other. But then the nightmares began. Gayle started having violent dreams that she could not explain. Concerned, Brent convinced her to go to a psychologist to talk things out. In the meantime, they move into a farm house that Brent inherits and stranger things start to happen. Brent starts acting like another person. It is going to take someone stronger than a psychologist to get to the bottom of what's going on- a parapsychologist. Could Gayle and Brent have possibly known each other before now? In another life time? Could the love they share be so strong that it is still searching 200 years later? From the Revolutionary War until now? It's a good book, fast-paced, page-turner- we all hope we could experience a love relationship like these two experience! Enjoy it!	2003-05-12
US	35316077	R2XTL4VUTB443Y	0060185708	680960032	The Reluctant Suitor	Books	3	6	6	N	N	I have to agree with the other reviewers.	I am inbetween 2 & 3 stars, leaning towards 2. I couldn't believe what other reviews were saying about this book and wanted to see for myself. Unfortunately, I have to agree with others that had problems with this book. I actually had problems getting into it. It was wierd. The proses were way overblown and I had to reread paragraphs to make sense of them. There were soooo many repeated flowery words and nonsense- I would get lost in the middle of them. Referring back to the bath tub scene got old. When Adrianna was almost raped by Roger and instead of being concerned for her well-being & soothing her, all Colton could think of was his manly desire and how she had looked in his bath tub.  And Arianna was having a hard time getting over a broken heart at the age of 7(?)- give me a break! I did a lot of looking over paragraphs to move on. There is a story there, but it just wasn't up to KW standards, even the ending wasn't. How sad... I won't be rereading this one and am glad I went to the library for it.	2003-05-09
US	35316077	R3DWJC5TK1WS0Y	0316171476	925145449	Masquerade	Books	3	0	2	N	N	It's an "OK"  read.	Remy Jardin is in France as a masquerade ball when she stumbles upon a conversation that she is not to hear. Realizing she is in danger she turns to leave- being discovered by one of the participants in the conversation. He catches up with her. They argue. He hits her, knocking her to the ground where she hits her head on the tree. She is discovered by a couple of tourist. They get her to the hospital where she is discovered to have amnesia. Remembering nothing. An article about her identity is placed in the newspaper w/her picture. Her family sees it and sends someone after her to bring her back to the US, back home-Cole Buchanan, president of the family shipping company, and former lover/boyfriend of Remy. While Remy is busy trying to regain her memory with different flash backs- she stumbles on an insurance scam dealing with a company oil tanker that was lost at sea recently. She starts asking questions that someone is feeling threatened by- enough to beat her up again and tell her to stop being nosy. Did that have to do with the conversation that she over-heard in France? Is Cole involved and is that why they had broken off their relationship? The read is ok. At one time the maid tells Remy how the family got their fortune in the beginning having to do with a love affair between a rich cajun debutante and a yankee ship owner that was disapproved of by her family, ending in death, grief, loss of love, and the birth of an illegitimate son left with a fortune. I enjoyed that story more than the actual one. Read it for yourself and see what you think.	2003-05-06
US	35316077	R17ZMJPQTJNWQP	0515090379	679725329	Separate Beds	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It was a marriage of "convenience."	There was a blind date. They came from \\"the other side of the tracks\\" - Clay Forrester, the rich little spoiled boy and Catherine Anderson, the poor little working girl. He was on outs with her girlfriend/lover. It was a \\"first time\\" for her, but that didn't matter. The unexpected/unwanted still happened. What were people going to say, how could they keep the talk down. Then Catherine reluctantly agreed to Clay's \\"marriage of convenience\\" for the family's sake and she and the child would be taken care of in the end. They became husband and wife... in name only. The wedding of Clay Forrester and Catherine Anderson was the social event of the season. It seemed like a page out of a fairy tale. But everything about it - from the formal vows to the magnificent reception - was a lie. But then feelings got in the way, changes started taking place. And love's face threatened the \\"agreement.\\" Good story, hard to put down. There will be times you will feel like you are on an emotional roller coaster. Highly recommended to read. A keeper	2003-05-05
US	35316077	R1S71HDFKGX9GR	051511992X	711674000	That Camden Summer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A really good book!	Wonderful, wonderful!  I agree! LaVyrle Spencer is one of my favorite authors. Her books are about everyday people- lives that touch you. There are times you cry for the characters and times you laugh at them. I enjoy that they are in different settings and times. This particular book is during the early 1900's when automobiles have just come out. Through this story the reader really gets a glimpse of what women went through in the earlier years before women's rights. Roberta Jewitt has had enough of her \\"playboy husband\\" who came around when he needed money or a place to stay. After several years of marriage she has filed for divorce and brought her 3 girls back home to renew her relationship with her family. Divorce was not an accepted thing back then especially when instigated by the woman. The townspeople look at her like she is diseased, her mother and sister are furious at the disgrace she has caused them, men think she is \\"fair game\\" for their pre-marital affairs (especially her brother-in-law who won't take no for an answere), etc. But she always had her daughters' love and respect.<br />Gabe Farley is a handy-man around town who is a widow of several years with a teenage daughter. He has made a good life for the 2 of them but he is lonely, still hanging onto the love of his dear deceased wife. Recognizing that fact that Roberta needs his help to get the house she has purchased presentable for her and the girls to live in to- makes a deal to get it in shape. While he is there everyday, he is given a chance to get to know Roberta for who she really is instead of listening to gossip. He comes to appreciate the time they spend together- realizing the void he has had in his life up to now. But what will people say he's seeing a \\"divorced woman\\"? It is a story of strong family ties and values, and the sweetest of love stories.	2003-05-02
US	35316077	R7P67PQ6ZUV89	0821769839	165457408	Night, Sea And Stars	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Who wouldn't want to be on an abandon island like that?	Due to her occupation Skye Delaney is placed on a plane headed back home with Kyle Jaggar as pilot when the plane goes down. Stranded on a deserted island (and Kyle being a good \\"boy scout\\")they make the best of the situation and set up house. Kyle is over-persuasive and talks Skye into a sexual relationship. Since they could be there on the island for quite a while, you know. Skye is a single (with a serious boyfriend back home), independent, business woman that \\"becomes pudding in Kyle's hands.\\" Kyle is a little more complicated. Co-owner of the airlines, Kyle is a domineering, playboy, tyconne that is married with an estranged wife and has a son he adores. The time they spend on the island is that of paradise which ends short when they are rescued after 6 weeks by Kyle's brother, Michael. When they return to the \\"real world.\\" Their relationship finds several complications to be worked out. The book is ok but HG has other wonderful books out there to be enjoyed that I don't rate this one up there very high, though I did finish it and enjoyed the ending. I would say go ahead and read it if you want or go to her other series like \\"Runaway\\" and \\"One wore Blue\\". It is hard to beat them.	2003-05-01
US	35316077	R3489RB9MHXHJE	0380755696	189074213	Silver Nights	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Russian silver nights	The setting is Russia in 1764, a nice change of scenery! The head of Russia, Czarina Catherine has arranged a marriage between Princess Sophia Alexeyevna and one of her head military leaders who is known to be a strict military tyrant at home as well as on the battle field, who is 30 years her senior. She will be his 4th wife (the 1st 3 were met by accidents). Apparently he is hard to please. Count Adam Danilevski, her future husband's head soldier, is her messenger and her escort to the wedding and new home. Due to the lengthy travel, Adam has a chance to get to know the free-spirited Sophie real well- her strengths and weaknesses, and falls in love with her wanting to protect her even from her future husband (knowing his &quot;track record&quot;). She suffers abuse at the hands of her husband for control of will and it is a loveless match. Sophie looks towards Adam for just a little spark of love that she must have to survive. The story is full of adventure, surprises, elaborate parties and secret escapades. How will Sophie escape him and who will be friend her- will be a surprise for you. The love she experiences with Adam is sooo sweet and your heart goes out to Adam at how the adultery tears at him. And without giving away the ending, I am sure glad that romances have happying endings because this one would have sure been a &quot;tear-jerker&quot; if not. It's a really good story and I truly recommend it.	2003-04-30
US	35316077	R1UKAV03UYUEZ2	1551666723	466321651	The Thrill of Victory (Brown, Sandra)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Another sweet romance, quick read	Stevie Corbett is a professional tennis player with an emergency health problem that could possibly keep her from playing in the tennis match of a life time- the Wimbledon! She must decide whether to risk her health for the opportunity to play, this being the thing that she has strived for all her life- the ultimate goal to reach. Judd Mackie, sports writer, is out to find out what Stevie is hiding from her fans- to write that article that his editor is hounding him for. Both Stevie and Judd have pasts of hurt that they have not healed from- not allowing themselves to have relationships with others. That's about to change. But they are about to find strong desire for love from each other. Sweet story that will take no longer than an afternoon.	2003-04-28
US	35316077	R3HEC8M1MZCGJM	0783881290	990979983	Flirtation River (G K Hall Large Print Book Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sweet afternoon read	I pulled this one from the library shelves and literally finished it in an afternoon. Sweet romance that would be good for the younger girls, too. Miranda (the wild one out of 2 daughters) is being sent to a secluded place where she will be safe and protected from the lunatic that is sending threatening letters her way. Her father, the Senator, is too busy with his political career to be concerned with Miranda- just don't let her tarnish his reputation. Duke, ex-marine that has been hired to look after Miranda is in an accident putting him up in the hospital leaving his oldest son, Quint, to look after her. She is not his \\"type\\" so what is there to worry about? Right! And who wants Miranda out of the way? Sweet, sweet story with \\"love scenes\\" without the sex.	2003-04-25
US	35316077	R2NJPSBXNVH2WR	0446360732	667976682	A Treasure Worth Seeking	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A sweet one night read	It's true- there are 2 Sandra Brown's, there are the SB books that are full of suspense and relationships and then there are those SB books that have some story with them focusing on love relationships. She does a good job with both types. This book is a good &quot;day&quot; read for those that don't have the time to get real involved. <br />Erin, adopted, discovers who her brother is and flies to CA to introduce herself to him only to discover that he is involved in a bank theft and is not to be found anywhere. She literally walks into a sticky situation of undercover men scoping out the house and phone waiting to track him down. Lance, the fed cop that is over this case, takes Erin in thinking at first that she might be involved in the theft, giving her a difficult time. As he spends time with her his hard heart weakens while she discovers that she is missing something in her life as well. A sweet love story.	2003-04-24
US	35316077	R333BAK2I1ZY21	0060505710	815745466	The Perfect Lover	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Leaves little to the imagination	This is definitely an \\"either you like it or you don't\\" kind of book. The sensuality rating should be way, way up there. I am one whom wished it had more story and less sex. There's lots and lots of that in it. A neighbor's summer garden party is getting ready to take place. On his way there Simon stops to reflect on his past childhood realizing he is ready to settle down with a wife for looks only- no commitment. At the same time a childhood friend of Simon's, Portia stops nearby to reflect on her past deciding she is ready to have a child of her own without the commitment of marriage to anyone. But how can she when she never experienced such a relationship? Well, she will pick a male at the party to be her \\"partner of love\\" or should we say \\"lust\\" with no commitment. Ending up at the party together- Portia and Simon truly \\"discover each other\\" after knowing each other all their lives and never haven gotten along. My, my how they have grown up. Portia decides on Simon to \\"teach her\\". And boy does he, while she teaches him a few unexpected things. Simon was always the protective \\"big brother type\\" and still is but now is possessive, too. In the end will there be a commitment because of love discovered? It's another one to read for yourself, if you are not offend by all of the sex scenes- the other reviews are true, there is sex on just about every other page.	2003-04-24
US	35316077	R3Q1EJ7BRQ5206	0446356859	557900413	Sunset Embrace (Coleman Family Saga)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A western taste with a little bit of everything in it	It is a surprise compared to other SB books. The setting is probably around the late 1860's to 1870. Lydia is found after giving birth to a baby boy in the wilderness by the Langston boys from a near by wagontrain. The baby is still born and Lydia is unconscious. She is running away from a step-brother (an abusive situation). Ma Langston takes Lydia in with the family to travel with them. Ross Coleman has just lost his wife Victoria during birth of his son Lee. The baby will die if a wetnurse is not found for him. Lydia is perfect but because of her shady background Ross fights it all the way-finally accepting it to keep Lee alive- thinking she's a whore. They are soon forced to marry because of the close quarters in the wagon train and to make things proper. Ross fights it all the way- though Lydia is a beautiful girl, shows signs of being \\"proper\\", and tries hard to take care of Ross and Lee. Sparks fly between the 2. Ross has a past that starts catching up with him half way through the book along with Lydia's past catching up with her, too. It is a really good book. The Langstons are a great family and you will fall in love with Ma Langston- we all need someone like her in our lives to help us \\"think straight.\\" There are other characters you will appreciate like the Southern gentleman, Winston Hill, whom is always proper and his friend Moses,too. The story is a good one that draws you in.	2003-04-24
US	35316077	R3NA9PK89RK5MZ	0449150054	252910984	If You Love Me	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A pleasant read	It is an very touching story and an enjoyable read. As the reader I felt for the characters. It is truly a &quot;My Fair Lady&quot; version but the setting is early American to England. William Woodville is escaping from his father's strong and family title hold by going to American to discover America's wilderness on a canvas through paint. He and his friends come upon indians trading a white woman, Margery Mackinnon, that has been raised by indians as a slave. Feeling for her he trades for her- only to be used by him. He marries her and takes her back to England humiliate his father and show his father that only he controls his destiny. Deserting he and going to back America, he realizes that he has love for her and slowly makes his way back to England to claim her heart which takes a couple of years to accomplish- only to find her transformed into a beautiful, well trained, lady with a surprise (or make that 2 surprises) of her own for him. I say read it for yourself, but it's not a keeper.	2003-04-22
US	35316077	RVR7E87YPS9QU	0380821109	123883724	His Bride (The His Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Trust is the key word in this story.	Though the story line is similar to some others I have read. I did enjoy this one. Written during Elizabethian times- the widower Sir Edmund Blackwell is having to accept an offer made by his ex-father-in-law to get the castle and lands back into shape and it will take a large sum of money. A bride and large dowry has been offered to Edmund with strings attached. It is made clear that the father-in-law is out to ruin Edmund. But Edmund is not one to turn down a challenge and accepts. He is to marry his deceased wife's cousin and if she is anything like Elizabeth was, Edmund is in for a miserable time. But she turns out to be just the opposite. Gwyneth Hall doesn't realize she is being used like a pawn and goes into this marriage to make it a success though she has never even met Edmund. With time Edmund lets his guard down to see Gwyneth as she really is and Gwyneth learns that there is a different person behind that face of Edmund's. Full of passion, some humorous bits, and over-all enjoyable.	2003-04-15
US	35316077	RWEUGVSCYW9F6	051510521X	639347172	Bitter Sweet	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A heart breaking story of First Love!	From the reviews, this one tends to be an \\"either you like it or you don't\\" kind of book. But I am glad I read it. I am now at the age of the main characters. And though I, too, don't agree with pre-marital affairs I am not going to judge those that fall into it. Maggie and Eric should have gotten together back in high school. But \\"long-distance romances\\" are hard to maintain and apparently over time they grew apart. 20 years later Maggie is a fairly recent widow trying to cope with the loss and get on with her life by getting in touch with old friends. Eric is \\"happily married\\" at least he thinks so- even though there are parts of his marriage that he still hasn't been able to accept and hoped they would correct themselves over time. But flames start up when he sees his high school sweetheart for the first time in years. Maggie visits the old hometown. They try reallllllll hard to hold feelings back but time keeps putting them together. Eric's wife Nancy is more interested in her career and self-image than starting a family that Eric has desired from the beginning. Oh there were parts that I did not agree with. As far as some reviews wanting Eric to be a widow too- well, that would have made a different story. I still would have liked Eric to have called Maggie towards the end to let her know what was taking place with the divorce instead of making her suffer for 6 months. And thank heavens there was a momma (Anna Severson) that had good sense to speak up to Eric and make him come to a decision. It was a hard book to put down!!! And I will read it again.	2003-04-15
US	35316077	R1GEOM2K7J0RN0	0553290851	706443797	22 Indigo Place	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Another quick romance read	One of SB's earlier reads. Laura Nolan is having to sell the old homeplace (the only home she has ever known that has been in the family for generations) to pay off her deceased father's bills. She was always known as the &quot;good, little, rich girl&quot; growing up-has never married or know passion.  James Paden who is a self-made millionaire- returns back to his hometown to show the towns people that he is worth their respect by buying the Nolan homeplace and woooing Laura Nolan into marrying him as a kind of vengence. She will be another one of his trophies. He was the bad kid that stayed in trouble when growing up and whose family was poor and no good. Little does he know that there if fire inside Laura's body ready to break out and capture his heart. Sweet story. A quick read.... not one of SB's better books, there is better to read.	2003-04-11
US	35316077	R2XAD2FX9JHQZV	0446360716	502580945	Shadows of Yesterday	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Sweet romance!	There are times you want to have to think and figure things out when reading and then there are times you want to just sit back and enjoy a sweet romance. This is one of the books. I really enjoyed it. Leigh is a widow, pregnant, and traveling by herself when she goes into labor. Unable to go any further, she pulls over on the side of the road wondering what was going to happen next. Chad headed back to town after being on his day off from work &amp; mechanicing on his airplane sees a woman in a car pulled over on the side of the road. He realizes she is in need when he approaches the car and sees her having contractions behind the steering wheel. He takes over from there to move her to the back of the truck and helps deliver Sarah, the baby girl. Love at first sight. After getting Leigh and Sarah to the hospital, Chad delivers a dozen roses to her room, sees that her parents are called to come, says goodbye with a fast by strong kiss- only to show up on her doorstep 4 months later to see how mother and baby are doing and to see if he can capture their hearts. Boy, do sparks start to fly! Both characters are extremely likable. Sweet, sweet story!	2003-04-10
US	35316077	R2LSLTVZUHH40E	0446364282	460818201	Love's Encore	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Another quick read	Camille Jameson and Zack Prescott met 2 years ago on a skiing trip. Their attraction for each other grew from several dates to a night of passion. Now they are thrown together to due Zack's father hiring Camille to redecorate their plantation home. It is a sweet story. I felt frustration towards Camille putting up with Zack's seeing an old girl friend while he is trying to recapture their passion and Zack putting up with Camille's lame excuse for their not being together. You can tell this is an older book of S. Brown's. She has so many better books out there-that I would probably recommend skipping this one - but if chosen to read, it is still enjoyable for a quick read.	2003-04-09
US	35316077	ROZC6CTR23DWT	0515084891	408737567	Years	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Age doesn't matter when Love is the subject-	Another good story- 18 year old Linnea Brandonberg is ready to venture out on her own. She leaves her family and hometown to arrive in Alamo, ND (that is more a community than town) as the new school teacher. It has been arranged for her to stay with 34 year old, widower Theodore Westgaard, his mother and 15 year old son Kristian. Theodore is a wheat farmer who is bitter against women due to a failed marriage that left him with a 1 year old son many years ago. Friction between Theodore and Linnea starts right off when she steps off the train and Theodore realizes that L.I. Brandonberg is a woman instead of a man. As time goes by Linnea starts bringing that imaginary brick wall down that Theodore has thrown up. Feelings are discovered between each other but Theodore can't get past their age difference until he is forced to. Theodore wants to continue denying his feelings for Linnea keeping her close, but Linnea decides she can't continue living under the same roof with Theodore denying her feelings for him. She wants all or nothing and when Theodore won't consider marriage she moves in with Theodore's sister Clara and her family forcing Theodore to face a possible future without her. Love wins out.  But there is soooo much more to the story!<br />You truly get a feel of the characters and story. It is a story of a young girl pioneer school teacher that braves many hardships to make a difference with the children and families throughout the community while she herself developes into an strong independent woman knowing what she wants and going after it. It is a story of a wheat farmer that has made a successful life for himself and son even though there has been an undescribable emptiness there up to now. It is a story of a community that is mainly made up of relatives that have settled close by, becoming dependent on each other to survive - willing to take in a stranger and make her feel a part. The book is definitely a keeper.	2003-04-08
US	35316077	R2FXMB0F3DV9PE	155166531X	993937344	Tiger Prince	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Now that's what I call a dream vacation!	Who wouldn't like to go to Jamaica for a &quot;get away from it all&quot; vacation, meet a handsome man that wants to &quot;wine &amp; dine&quot; you-- to find out later that he is actually the prince of a foriegn nation and has stars in his eyes for YOU! But there are complications-you work for the goverment and are accused of sharing priviledge information during your romance. What can happen next? Good story (a little slow right at first)- one of those books that is a quick read, great pick-me upper. Good little romance novel.	2003-04-04
US	35316077	R2KU9ZMP37KY4G	0312282001	338498691	My Dearest Cecelia: A Novel of the Southern Belle Who Stole General Sherman's Heart	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love that last a life time!	It is Spring of 1837, and due to dispute at home, Southern belle Cecelia Stovall is sent with her 2 brothers to visit her oldest brother Marcellus who is attending West Point Academy. While attending the Commencement Ball Cecelia meets Northerner William T. Sherman, roomate of Marcellus. They are both captivated with each other and find reasons to see each other during the days to follow (against the approval of her brothers). During one of these times they pledge their love to each other. Marcellus discovers that there are sparks between the two. Cecelia is swept away by her brothers and adventually off to Europe by her father, against her will, with Marcellus to avoid communication between her and William. The Stovall family is a wealthy, starch, southern family that will have no northerner as a part of it. Failing attempts are made to send correspondence to William of her love. While in Europe, Cecelia is introduced to wealthy cotton planter Charles Shelman from Georgia. Since the family business is in financial need, marriage between Cecelia and Charles is that much more important as well as the prestige it would have for the family name. Cecelia and Marcellus finally return home to Georgia, with Charles determined to make her his trophy wife. To earn favor with his father, Marcellus sees that attempts made between William and Cecelia to write or see each other are void. Cecelia is able to avoid marriage to Charles wondering why William hasn't come after her, while William is sent false word that Cecelia has forgotten him and moved on with her life. Days, months, and then years go by. Both eventually end up married to others (though their hearts belong to each other only) only to find each other again and discover that each still truly love each other. The marriages are rocky from beginning to end. Civil War breaks out. Over time William becomes a noted General for the North while Cecelia works with the Underground Railroad helping to get slaves out of the Southand a spy for the North. Their paths cross several times only to realize those vows that were taken such a long time ago were for life. <br />It is a wonderful book. Very well written. My heart went out to Cecelia and William-to see others control their futures was just heart breaking. I highly recommend it!!!	2003-04-02
US	35316077	R2RXY0C5UHE3DK	055309310X	39563487	Fascination	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Love has many faces	I didn't agree with the other reviews (I even had problems with the editorial review). This book really touched me. It had such a sadness to it. I didn't see the 3 women as being desparate as stated in the editorial review. 3 women are traveling on a cruise ship headed from America to England. They are of different ages, different backgrounds, with different goals in life. Miranda Cunningham is 40, a beauty (admired by all men) married to her sweetheart- who tends to be gone for long periods of time to excavation sights due to being an archeologist. She is missing him terribly, wanting passion back in her life. No man has turned Miranda's head until now. One stolen, passionate kiss shakes up her world. Cynthia Cunningham is a self-centered, spoiled 17 year old (niece to Miranda) being sent to London by her father to find a husband with a title for prestige of the family. Why not marry a handsome senator with money? Louisa &quot;Kitt&quot; McAllister is 25, unmarried (considering being a spinister at this age) independent, easy to talk to, wanting to see some of the world. Is there such a thing as love at first sight? Senator Steven James is 30, a widow, strikingly handsome (turns all of the women's heads) with personality but has never known true love. And now the one that has turned his head is married with strong commitment towards her husband and family. This is a story of lives that are tangled in a might fine web. This is a good examply how the act of 2 people can affect many others' lives. I don't understand why others had a hard time following the characters. Along with the main characters there are several others that are important to the story and that help it come to life. In the end, Miranda and Paul realized their love for each other was too strong to give up- it will take work but Miranda will recover what she almost lost with Paul. Cynthia realized Steven wasn't interested in her and settles for marriage to one with title, old family prestige, and a castle for a home. Kitt holds out for love- and gets it in the end. Stephen has turned to her for friendship and companionship in the past, missing her when she said &quot;no more,&quot; protecting her heart. I was satisfied with the ending, though I would have liked a little more story of Kitt and Stephen coming together in the end. Oops! I hope I haven't spoiled the end for you. It is sweet- and my heart sang for Kitt, feeling that if Stephen had continued to miss her and have strong feelings for Kitt, it would develope into a strong love for each other, different from that of Miranda and Stephen's- the unforbidden love. It's a good book.	2003-03-31
US	35316077	RS9MCD6LKTDZP	0440234581	28662957	Enchanting Pleasures (The Pleasures Trilogy)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Sweet story line	This was my first EJ book to read. For some reason I had a hard time getting involved in this book until after the first 1/3 of the book. I enjoyed the story and the characters. Gabby and Quill were delightful. I liked the fact that Gabby isn't perfect in her figure as in so many other books. I appreciated Quill taking up for & looking after Gabby. He was kind of her \\"knight in shining armor\\" showing up at the right times- or taking up for her since she hadn't been taught correct etiquette. One of the scenes that I enjoyed was Quill trying to ask Gabby to marry him and casualy quoting Shakespeare \\"I pine, I burn, I perish for you\\" in his practiced speech- he was real ackward with it. Gabby was getting tickled since she recognized the lines. Quill got frustrated and decided to drop the whole speech taking Gabby into his arms kissing her passionately quoting a couple of words here and there between kisses-I pine (kiss) I burn (kiss) I perish for you (kiss)- boy, it worked for me. The friendship between Gabby and Lady Sophie was precious, too. There was humor as well as some sadness- due to the death of Quill's father and Quill's unsureness about his illness and being able to satisfying Gabby. I also enjoyed the the love story between Emily and Lucien. Over all it is a good book.	2003-03-31
US	35316077	R1PMZISRR4NIT4	0505524228	785048359	Stuck With You (Time of Your Life)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Love Bug Virus versus the real thing - LOVE!	Need a fun &quot;pick-me upper&quot; for a quick read- try this one. Paige is a tax lawyer handling a cousin's divorce case while Ross is a divorce lawyer handling the cousin's spouse's side of the case. They can't stand each other- until they are forced to spend unlimited time for 2 weeks quarentined together in a hospital due to being exposed to a virus. Virus - The LoveBug! Lots of passion- due to the virus or could it be love?	2003-03-26
US	35316077	R2TBZT29IRXYX6	0515094773	640993386	Vows	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hard to put down!	Sweet, sweet love story! Definitely a keeper to revisit years to come. The setting is Wyoming, 1888.  Tom is new in town, opening up a business of his own, just down the street from his competitor. Emily, the competitor's daughter is headstrong- tomboy describes her best, and doesn't like Tom right off because of the threat he is making to her family's business. The story goes deep, allowing you to really see her family for how they really are- her dying mother, her father who is trying to hold the family and business together, her aunt who comes to help the family handle death a little easier, the dingy girlfriend who is looking for a husband, and the fiancee who Emily has known since childhood and is more like a brother than lover. Sparks start to fly with Tom and Emily- both trying to deny them. Great story- several surprises. Sweet ending! You'll enjoy this one!	2003-03-24
US	35316077	R3467KA68R7OU3	0446364312	278758699	Tempest in Eden	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Don't go by some reviews- it's worth reading!	Looking at the reviews- either you will really like this one or you will think it stinks! Well, I fall in with the \\"really like this one!\\" The opening scene is great. Shay's mother has remarried and this is the first opportunity to meet and spend time together as a family at the camp. Everyone- mother, Shay, step-father and step-brother is to be there. Shay arrives finding mother and step-dad gone and step-brother in shower. Shay walks into her bedroom in time to see Ian step out of the shower (while singing and dancing to Beach Boy's song Good Vibrations) in the adjoining bathroom- he forgot to shut the door! Their eyes meet! She is laughing at his act and he's fuming with embarrassment. This is the beginning of a rough weekend. Shay is to find out that Ian is a minister, while she is a nude model for artists out of New York. A great story of how they handle their attraction to each other-the rough roads as well as the smooth ones, differences in careers, their past history-one divorced while the other is a widow. I appreciate Ian taking his religious commitment serious. Both characters are with strong personalities. Read it for yourself and see what you think.	2003-03-24
US	35316077	R1W2CFTUTMJDTY	1551662914	966528886	Above And Beyond	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Worth the read!	Great storyline, great characters, sweet love scenes that don't get gross with graphics- a great read! It will be a keeper for me! Kyla's husband, Richard- a marine who is guarding the embassy- dies during a bombing, the day after the birth of their little boy. Trevor, also a marine, survives the bombing losing his left eye as well as his left side being crushed. He survives the extensive pain, surgeries, and rehab by reading and rereading letters that were in with his belongings returned to him. Sweet love letters written by Kyla to Richard. He decides he wants to meet the women of such love. When he finally gets out of rehab 1 1/2 years later he heads to where Kyla & son are now living with her parents. She's a \\"knock-out!\\" Love at first sight for Trevor- so he starts finding ways to meet Kyla and get to know her better, become a part of her life and introduce her to the man he has become. He can't just go up to her and introduce himself to her because he was known as \\"Smooch\\"- if that tells you anything. Richard had shared \\"Smooch's\\" adventures with Kyla & she detested him. But life has given Trevor a 2nd chance. And he wants to prove that to Kyla before she finds out the truth of who he was.<br />A great love story! Trevor is a doll and Kyla is a sweetie that has to finally give up her husbands ghost to love another. It is easy for us to say \\"Kyla get real and go after Trevor!\\" But until Trevor she has been living for her son, convincing herself that there will never be another love for her. It is easy as a reader to say give it up but put yourself in her place. It's a keeper of a book!	2003-03-20
US	35316077	R2CAO942NIC1PC	0451408470	359391928	Tall, Dark, and Deadly	Books	4	1	2	N	N	They're ALL tall, dark, and handsome - so who did it?	Ready for a lot of suspence? Read the prologue and see if you can put it down! I bet you can't. And it kept me going to the end. This one has it all- murder, passion, suspects, ex-lover(s),and alligators. One reviewer called it a romantic-suspence and that is right on target. Sam's girlfriend + neighbor comes up missing and Sam can't let it go. The police are on the case but things aren't moving as fast as she thinks they should. Sam soon discovers that her other neighbor that has just moved in is none other her ex-lover Rowan who is trying to leave his past (a suspect of murder)and move forward or is it backwards (with Sam being back in his life even if it is as a neighbor). So Sam and Rowan are now trying to find the pieces to the puzzle themselve. A great story! You'll enjoy it.	2003-03-17
US	35316077	R23LTVOH1X5H13	0553571583	640800851	Breakfast in Bed (Bed & Breakfast)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	What fun... being served Breakfast in Bed!	Want a fairly quick read full of sizzling romance- this is it! Single, Sloan is trying to make a go of her Bed & Breakfast. Carter is trying to get his lastest book written before it's deadline. He is to marry his deceased best friend's widow when he is through. Alicia, Sloan's best friend and Carter's fiancee, suggest that Carter get away for a while in seclusion so he can finish his book and they can get on with their lives. Alicia and Carter's relationship is not one of passion and love- oh, there's love there, Carter's love for his best friend's widow and sons who need a father figure and Alicia's love for deceased husband Jim's best friend to fill a void now in her life. But passion, no! <br />So Carter arrives at the B&B only to discover love at first sight and the same goes for Sloan. But how can Sloan and Carter pursue their unspoken passion for each other with the thought of betrayal to Alicia hunging in the air. Sweet, sweet romance!	2003-03-17
US	35316077	RS4DJGKW1TWL2	0380808080	316913360	This Heart of Mine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great little modern day romance	Molly Somerville, children's book author, has had a crush on football quarterback Kevin Tucker for years. Her sister being the owner of the Chicago Stars, Molly has had unlimited opportunity to be around at the right time to &quot;feed the crush.&quot; Kevin doesn't even know she exist. Kevin is sent to the family vacation cabin to concentrate on getting ready for the season while Molly shows up to be alone and concentrate on writing. Alone she is not. He refuses to leave and she does too. Its a stand off. They decide they are adults and can handle sharing the cabin. But Molly's imagination and feelings get carried away. She sneaks into Kevin's bed while he's sleeping- dreaming of a recent girlfriend, only to take Molly into his arms. When waking up during their lovemaking, Molly is embarrassed and Kevin is furious. This throws them together under unexpected circumstances. It is a wonderful story. Though Kevin is a hunk- Molly is not the usual beauty, but more so the average built, but yet pretty in her own way, woman. Love has to find its way- while first impressions and intruding family members have to be set aside. It's a great story, a lot of fun. You'll find yourself laughing at parts. Enjoy it!	2003-03-13
US	35316077	R3JHO0QKDEK896	0385421486	299736770	Thunder of the Plains	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Has a little bit of everything in it.	I pulled this one off the library shelves and I enjoyed it. For a while I didn't think Sunny & Colt would EVER get together. I was on a roller coaster with emotions- and truly loved the end. The end held a couple of surprises. The setting in the beginning is the wild west during 1857. Chicago tycone Bo Landers has dreams for the first railroad to head west. To be able to convince his supports to help finance it he wants to head west and see what obsticles there are. He hires Colt Travis (a good-looking Indian 1/2 breed) as scout to accompany him, his daughter Sunny Landers (Daddy's reason for living) and a team of men. During the trip, an innocent attraction starts between Colt (20) and Sunny (15) but Daddy discourages it. Sunny will one day inherit all and needs someone of her own status. Colt ends his scouting for the Landers- while Sunny is feeling the pains of first love. As years pass Colt marries & loses his wife and infant son during an Indian raid. Sunny's father dies leaving his fortune (of which Sunny's 2 brothers squabble over) and his railway dream to Sunny to pursue it. As she starts to fill the shoes of her father's, Blaine O'Brien, a rich tycone that has a dream to become president one day, has his eye on Sunny to make her his wife (there's no mention of love). Hearing of her father's death, Colt writes Sunny sending her his condolences. They start keeping in contact by mail-filling a void in each other's lives (giving fuel to that old flame). Colt shows up in Chicago and seeks Sunny out. One night of passion leads to disaster. Colt realizes their lives are worlds apart and he leaves after having a confrontation with Sunny's brothers-who are afraid Sunny is going to make a mess of her future. But Sunny can't forget that night. Though Brian is definately in the picture, it takes a while but Sunny seeks Colt out. Another night under the stars produces... I'll stop there. You'll have to read it for yourself. But you won't believe the ups and downs- Indian raids, fist fights, buffalo stampedes, grand dinners & balls, train wrecks, battles (Civil War), nights under stars, etc. This book has a little bit of it all, along with a wonderful ending (don't cheat by reading ahead).	2003-03-13
US	35316077	R1WSSQN2MSLZY3	0446364304	626100996	Temptation's Kiss	Books	3	14	16	N	N	I've got mixed emotions about this one!	I have REAL mixed emotions!!! I am giving it a 3 but really I would like to give it a 2 1/2. It really bothered me how Josh practically stalked Megan during the first of the book- he was REAL pushy too-constantly sneeking kisses, forcing kisses. I kept thinking \\"where is the respect for her?\\" The sex is very explicit, too. It's constant. Megan was too silly at times for me, too. Like her thinking of ruining Josh's reputation? The story is sweet- love (or was it lust?) at first sight, though Megan was faithful to her first husband. I can see where other reviews would rate it high because of the story line- Josh loving Megan sooo much and it being a dream come true for him to have the opportunity to seek her due to the unfortunate death of his friend, Megan's husband. But I really don't think I feel comfortable in suggesting this book.	2003-03-07
US	35316077	R1VSWXFNKXE91X	0671795554	706034749	Remember When (The Foster Saga)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	You know... I thoroughly enjoyed it!	Rich Girl meets and falls for Poor Boy on the other side of the tracks... 15 yrs old Diana Foster has a secret teenage crush on 21 yrs old college student, Cole Harrison- who works at the stable of the neighbor of the Fosters. Years later.... Cole is a billionaire with his own company, rated in the 50 most eligible bachelors in the world- Diana is a strong wealthy businesswoman with her own company, family operated. Diana has just been jilted by her fiancee of 2 years that has just run off and married an 18 year old model. Cole and Diana meet at a society fund raiser where Cole comes to Diana's rescue pretending to be her lover while the tabloids and society's gossip gives Diana a rough time. Their relationship takes off from there. You'll not believe how fast it takes off, either. I'll not spoil it for you-you'll have to read it to find out for yourself.<br />I agree their relationship could have been more developed for the reader. But it was sort of nice to read a book that did not dive heavy into the sex. I loved the characters. And those reviewers that are asking \\"When did Cole and Diana fall in love?\\" or \\"What did they look like?\\" -did they read the same book I did? First, there was their friendship & respect during their school years... and then their friendship & respect w/admiration added to it that bloomed into love. Gosh, if I had had a gentleman that came to my aide like Cole did for Diana- I would have had stars in my eyes too! Plus, he did not make her feel inferior like she had felt with Dan when they did make love. We were told heights, builts, eye & hair colors, shapes of chins, skin tone, etc. What more do you want? Hey, do you like one-liners? I loved it when Diana's PR girl comes into the room talking and laughing about the tabloids announcing the marriage of Diana to Cole (not realizing that had actually happened)and their companies possibly merging together and describes it like \\"the shark eating the guppy.\\" She then sees Cole coming into the room and ask what he is doing there and he says \\"I'm the shark that ate the guppy.\\" GREAT! I laughed out loud. There were several great moments with humor. Read it and enjoy! P.S. I bougth this one for my library, I liked it that much.	2003-03-06
US	35316077	R3TZ2NPVMC2QLV	0821770500	933960891	Moonlight Becomes Her (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	I have mixed feelings	The story line was great! And you can't beat the first scene- Rafe is riding in his private coach down a poorer side of town when he is stopped by Lady Moonlight and her bandits. Rafe is robbed and to slow him down, plus for a little bit of fun she has him to strip down to his underwear (she actually wants him naked but her bandits stop her at the underwear!). He is humiliated and vows to return the favor to her one day! Great first scene!!! But from there it was tough reading for me. Maybe it's just me but...I had a hard time staying focused and interested until well through the middle of the book. I didn't put it down because I knew it would get better and it did. I liked both of the main characters- Rafe Belloch made his fortune from the railroad but has a vendetta to settle with NY's aristocrates. Mystere was an orphan plucked from the streets by Paul Rillieux to be claimed as his debutante niece to work the NY aristocrates stealing their most valuable jewels right from under their noses. 2 years later Rafe and Mystere meet during a NY Society Social. Is she the one? Rafe vowed he would never forget those eyes, that body. It really is a good story. This was my first Meagan McKinney book and I do look forward to reading others. So read it for yourself-- See what you think..... P.S. I wasn't satisfied with the epilogue. It had a lot to be desired for me.	2003-03-04
US	35316077	R249I2ST9Y6FJO	055358068X	530670102	The Least Likely Bride	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wrong Title for this Book!	I wish we could give 1/2 stars. I am torn between a 3 & 4 star! I enjoyed the reading- and I liked the main characters. I would go sailing with Anthony any day and apparently it was time for Olivia to get her head out of the books. It took Anthony to do it (gosh, the beach sign is GREAT!). There was the romance and there is a good story line but something was missing for me. I do wish it had not ended so quickly. I agree with other reviews saying that I still had serious questions to be answered at the end of the story. And I guess I just feel more satisfied when at the end there is a marriage- I wasn't satisfied with her being his doxy. The relationship with the 3 friends was great to me. Go on and read it and enjoy it, but JF has other really great books out there that pass this one up! Like THE WIDOW'S KISS.	2003-03-03
US	35316077	R3SN1RNQRTO3PY	0671516922	885092842	Trust Me	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Sweet one to read	This is another one of those that I wish I could rate between a 3 and 4 star. I enjoyed the story. I appreciated Stark being a brainy (nerdy)person with a &quot;great bod&quot;, wanting more out of life but not knowing how to go about it. He was great- he just needed someone to care and show him how to love and stop being so analytical about everything. The opening sign was great. Stark was left standing at the alter for the 2nd time. Desdemona is the caterier and is having to console him while she tries to get him to pay the bill. Cute scene. Desdemona was a sweetie. I did get awfully tired of her comparing everything to the Wainwright family. That got pretty &quot;corny&quot; after a while. I enjoyed reading it, though I won't want to read it again. But it was fun.	2003-03-03
US	35316077	R3364KFNGHM0WP	055357602X	357275610	In a Class by Itself	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Haven't you ever wondered about Class Reunions?	I really think some of the reviewers have been too rough. I started not to read it because of the reviews- but I went on and enjoyed it. Yea, it has its problems- and if I had been the author I would have written somethings differently but... I still enjoyed it. This is a good book for a quick read inbetween those \\"make you think\\" novels, or if you just want a sweet love story that you can enjoy and not have to go deep to get into it.<br />Dani and Logan are reunited at a 10 yr. class reunion after being separated for 10 yrs due to a teenage tragedy (the parents didn't approve of their love and separated them). Their adult love lives have been individual fiascos. Dani has become strong, independant with personal tragedies leading to lifelong commitments. Logan has worked hard to become rich constantly trying to proving to himself (& in his mind to Dani's parents) that he is worthy and somebody. Haven't you ever wonder about what happened to certain people in your grad class? Or the what if's- things had worked out and certain people had ended up together. I personally know of someone whose parents split her and her high school sweetheart up. They went on to marry different people have families, to end in divorced and got together after 10 years to have a happy marriage. Sad with a good ending to it.	2003-02-27
US	35316077	R3BHL4UKISDC4B	0446604232	917393950	Exclusive	Books	3	0	1	N	N	I agree- good suspense, but romance is lacking...	SB's EXCLUSIVE is a good suspense but the romance I question (though the kiss scene was a good one). The plot is a good one and I really liked the characters. <br />Barrie Travis, a low budget journalist, receives a call from the First Lady of the White House for an interview. How often does that happen? The President and First Lady has just recently gone through the death of the infant baby boy to SIDS. Or was it SIDS? The interview causes Barrie to want to do a little digging. After coming across several dead-ends, she ends up in Wyoming at the home of former Presidential Assistant Ex-Marine Gray Bondurant. And boy, is he tough. Someone is afraid Gray is going to give out information to Barrie that might be detrimental to the President so there is an attempt on his life. This brings him into the investigation- Who is They? What are They trying to cover up? It is fast reading and will keep you guessing.	2003-02-26
US	35316077	R3LGDCG9OZA8G8	0385335350	230297888	A Summer to Remember	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Might be the same plot- but it was different for me!	The was my 1st Balogh book and I didn't know this was a series until now & I don't feel like I missed out by not reading the one before this. The author did a good job of catching the reader up through different scenes of flash backs, memories, etc. And some readers might say it has the same plot as other regency storys but there was a difference for me. The heroine (Miss Lauren Edgeworth) is strong, respectable, loving- she's not this wimpy creature that spreads her legs in the first pages of the book to find love or because she's been told to. The hero (Kit Viscount Ravensberg) is a typical rake with a past that he has been trying to escape from, but there is another side to him that through time and a special relationship with Lauren (not one of jumping in and out of bed) he reveals. Now don't get me wrong- Lauren and Kit find their love together and have their special moments but their relationship is NOT based on that. I literally felt their pain at times. And though I know there is going to be a happy ending-I still worried at times about their getting together. I especially appreciated the ending. ... But Balogh carried it on out and I felt so very satisfied with I finished the book. I was truly captivated by the story and hated to put it down til the end.<br />Now I have told you all this and not even told you about the story, I'll try to be brief...<BR>Miss Lauren Edgeworth was left at the alter under unusual circumstances a year ago by the one love of her life. She has been trying to get on with her life in seclusion but her family says it's time for her to get out. She has learned during her childhood that one is accepted and loved when one does what is expected to do- so she has turned out to be this prime, proper, beautiful, somewhat dull person. She is 26 years old- yet to be married and ready to accept a life of being single. She arrives in London to visit family and is talked into attending a few parties of the ton. Though it has been a year she is sure her <BR>ex-wedding will still be the talk of the ton.<br />Kit Viscount Ravensberg, a rake living a wild life in London, has been summoned by his father to return to the estate to wed his elder deceased brother's fiancee (who 3 years ago was Kit's love- yes, I could see problems there too!) and take on family responsibilities. Not having spoken to family members on 3 years- Kit is still rebellous and decides he is going to rebell by bring home a fiancee/or bride of his own choosings. But who will have him with the reputation he has gained for himself?<br />Lauren and Kit become acquainted, they strike up a bargain to become betrothed for the summer only - Lauren is to accompany Kit home and be his respectable fiancee long enough to show the family he can make acceptable decisions such as picking a bride (helping Kit be reunited with his family) while Kit becomes her fiancee to get her family off her back (showing Lauren a memorable summer to last her a lifetime as a spinster. Lauren goes on a voyage of self-discovery finding freedom while Kit accepts the traumas of the past- that he can not always be the hero. And together they find that love doesn't mean dependence. I'm TELLING YOU, IT WAS A GREAT STORY!! and you'll love the ending.	2003-02-19
US	35316077	RJOXQOC0IB6FR	0553574116	270984394	Wicked Widow (Vanza)	Books	2	0	4	N	N	I agree- it's just OK reading. There is better out there.	This was my first Amanda Quick- and I wasn't impressed. It was dry and slow in places. I, too, got tired of Vanza this and Vanza that. It was overdone. As for the characters- I did like Artemis Hunt, owner of the Dreams Pavilion but there was something missing with Madeline &quot;The Wicked Widow&quot; Deveridge. And their romance was definitely flat and missing something (not that I want more description, but I did not feel the love there). I did finish the book but I won't suggest this one to friends.	2003-02-17
US	35316077	R1C0QTSNIS006	0380973278	331117572	Ashes in the Wind	Books	5	14	16	N	N	I think this is my favorite KW Romance!	I read this 25 years ago when I was in high school- and it has stood the test of time! It is great thru and thru. 90% of KW's books have been great but somewhat perdictable. There is a great storyline, enough romance, and plenty drama and suspense to keep the reader guessing. I hated putting it down. I really cared for the characters. The setting is during the Civil War. Alaina MacGaren has been able to survive due to her disguises as a young rebel orphaned boy, who is taken in by a dashing Yankee surgeon named Cole Latimer. She finds refugee at her aunt and uncle's home while she works at the hospital in disquise to help pay for her living expense. Times get interesting! Alaina's cousin, who she is living with, works at trapping Cole (I wanted to scratch her eyes out for Cole) into marriage, while all along Cole is fasinated with his little &quot;ragged&quot; friend- not realizing that he is a fascinating and desirable young woman. Things get wild and the reader will never guess how they turn out. There are truly some funny scenes that I found myself laughing at and close to tears wanting to holler &quot;Don't do it!&quot; at other times. I really got into the story. I must be into Civil War books right now- but this was like none other. I rate this one up there with Heather Grahams' One Wore Blue, One Wore Gray, And One Went West series about the Camerons. It was great!	2003-02-17
US	35316077	R2BCY8T5FMV4KL	072784492X	289612845	And One Rode West	Books	5	14	15	N	N	I hated to see it end!	The war is over. Brothers, Jesse and Daniel have returned home to Cameron Hall to join their wives, children, and their only sister Christa who has kept the house standing while they fought in the war on opposite sides.  She was to have wed during the war herself but her love didn't show up. She later learn he died on the battle field.  Now the yankees are wanting to burn Cameron Hall down while Jesse, Daniel and their families are gone away, taking care of business, with Christa left. It is going to take a signature from a Cameron relative who is a Union supporter to save the home, and there is only 24 hrs to do it. Christa is a die-hard rebel and hates all yankees, excluding her brother Jesse. And there is only one solution as far as Christa is concerned- marry Union Colonel Jeremy McCautley, who just arrived to tell his sister Callie (Daniel's wife, Christa's sister-in-law) good-bye before he heads out west for duty. Marry and then get an annulment, that's Christa's solution. But Jeremy has other plans. Furious that Christa can make vows and then throw them away so easily, Jeremy decides to make her take them seriously. You should see the looks of everyone's faces when Jesse, Daniel, and wives come home to find Jeremy and Christa in bed together the day after their wedding (knowing how much they can't stand each other and NOT knowing nothing happened in bed). Christa is now married and finds herself packing to head out west to join her new husband, while leaving her beloved home behind. And she fights it all the way. HG does a great job of carrying all three books out from the beginning of the Civil War to the Restoration afterwards. I also appreciated her carrying the family members along so the reader really gets a sense of how their stories (Jesse, Kiernan, Daniel, and Callie) are going. The bond that the reader experiences with this family is great. I do highly recommend that the reader begin with ONE WORE BLUE and then AND ONE WORE GRAY to get the complete picture- but each book is good about bringing the reader up on what has taken place, without boring those that have read them in sequence. Well, I hated to see it end. But I have purchased them and plan on reading them again in the future, they are just that WONDERFUL!!!	2003-02-17
US	35316077	R1YPPHON436D76	0606196803	287482638	Alibi	Books	4	1	1	N	N	She had an alibi all along! HIM!	Charming, well-liked and respected (along with being good looking and single)Assistant Attorney Hammond Cross is in line to be the next DA in Charleston, SC. After having a tough day at work and a meeting with a well known real estate agent that informs Hammond of shady dealings with his father, Hammond is ready to get out of town for a restful weekend at the camp. Realizing he is in the driving lane going towards a county fair, Hammond decides to detour to the fair and then head on to the camp. While he is there he sees her... a gorgeous and sophisticated woman. They \\"meet\\" without exchanging names and after a lot of persuading on his part- it works out that they spend the evening together. Yes, intimately!..... When Hammond arrives back home, still in a daze to what has happened over the weekend to him, he discovers that the town's wealthiest and most hated citizen, real estate agent, Lute Pettijohn has been murdered. And there are several possibilities for the murderer (Pettijohn's no-love-lost widow, Cross's own father, the investigating police officer Rory Smilow- the list is endless) but the most suspected is none other Dr. Alex Ladd, Hammond's mystery woman. Hammond is appointed prosecuting attorney for the case. And the plot only thickens... what is going to happen when it is discovered that Hammond knows Dr. Ladd intimately? Will this be the end of his future as D.A.? But more intimately- how could she have done it? What about the these feelings that Hammond is having towards her? Why is he torn apart every time they meet? As the story progresses there is real reason discovered for other people wanting Pettijohn dead, attempted murder, and several surprises that complete the story. WHO DID IT? Good and fast reading!	2003-02-12
US	35316077	R1CCME6QX6G3R1	0440211476	573560862	And One Wore Gray (Camerons Saga: Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I agree- it does keep getting better!	One Wore Blue starts with the beginning of the Civil War and is the Cameron family's view point of the war- it is especially concerned with the brother (Jesse Cameron) who feels that he must fight on the Union side of the war. (A great book!) And One Wore Gray is the 2nd story of Graham's Civil War trilogy about the Cameron Family- the reader now gets a glimpse of the war fought from the Confederate side. Daniel Cameron, brother to Jesse (the Union sergeon)is a Confederate Cavalier. The story picks up approximately half way through the war (where One Wore Blue stopped) when Daniel is wounded (for a second time) during a battle on a farmland in Maryland. Callie Michaelson is a widow of a Union solder that is living on family property alone, trying to hold things together until her brothers are able to return from the war. Daniel ends up at her home and even though Callie is a very strong Union supporter, she recognizes Daniel as being a human being in need of medical help, instead of looking at him strictly as her enemy. She takes him in to nurse him while he steals her heart. During his recover of a approximately a week they are able to forget the war and live a fantasy of what life might be like if only the war... But then Daniel must leave to return to his Confederate cause. Callie is caught- having to make the decision of letting Daniel escape and be killed by the Yankee soldiers that now know of his existance or call him back to be captured and possibly go to Yankee prison camp. Will Daniel ever forgive her? Will she be able to let him know that she loves him? And this all happens right about the beginning. It is a great story. I appreciated how Ms. Graham continued the story from one book to another. She ends the war with One Wore Gray. The ending is great! I cried. I also appreciated how she continued Jesse and Kiernan's love story through One Wore Gray. I highly recommend reading this- but try to read One Wore Blue first so you will get the whole picture. I am looking forward to getting And One Went West. It is about the sister of the Cameron Brothers.	2003-02-10
US	35316077	R3EKUH9KRKEYD4	0345444825	229325241	The Wedding Dress: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I gave this one a "thumbs up"!	The 2 older sisters- Victoria Atwater Whitmore and Julia Atwater Lovejoy, who hadn't been married very long before losing their husbands in battles of the Civil War are now widows living in the family home along with their youngest sister Claire. The war has ended, the area is depressed, and everyone is trying to put their lives back together. But the future is looking bleak for these sister who live in a small community. Feeling dispair, Julia decides they need to get their minds off their problems and decides they need a goal to work towards. Like finding the husband that Claire is afraid she will never have since all of the single young men in the community were lost in the war! And what better way to be serious about the goal than to make a wedding dress for the big day- that's having faith. Claire is thrilled and feels she might actually have a future to look forward to. The sisters spend their winter evenings piecing together this dress- it is fun seeing how the community helps them with their adventure without even knowing it. Then Sergeant Monroe Tacy arrives. He is the wartime friend of Julia's deceased husband, her beloved William. He promised William to deliver his last gift of love to Julia when William was on his death bed. He turns out to be more than just a messenger. Feeling at home with the sisters and seeing the work that needs to be down around the plantation, Monroe stays and helps the sisters survive the winter with his hunting and repairing skills. And as spring arrives so does new surprises.  The sisters are tested by events but they rely on faith, love, and friendships to see them through. It is a GREAT STORY!!!! that I will highly recommend. The author does a great job with the authenticity of the Southern dialect. She doesn't \\"butcher\\" it. There is great humor. I just love Monroe and his humor with the stubborn mule. I really liked all of the characters- even though Claire was silly and immature but I could see her being that way and how about James' pain and anxiety. I normally don't care for \\"ghost\\" being used in stories. But this is one time that I did not mind it. I guess I have seen so many shows on ghost still roaming the southern plantation homes and battle scenes since the Civil War that I didn't dwelling on their showing up in the story off and on. Any, Virginia, you did a great job. I look forward to your next book. Thumbs up!!	2003-02-05
US	35316077	R1C0O07YNSHPSZ	1568954042	449806118	Arrow to the Heart	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Entertaining but not a keeper	After learning the death of his step-brother, Rowan decides to do his own investigation which leads him to a plantation home in Louisiana. He arrives during a time of festivities and  tournaments based on a Roman Theme. The owners of the home and over the festivities are Katrine and Giles Castlereigh who have been married over 5 years. Theirs was an arranged marriage between Giles and Katrine's father- both of which were best of friends and around the same age. Katrine has settled into the life style of having an older, wealthy husband- but has not given him an heir. The main reason being because the marriage has never been consummated. Why? And Giles desparately wants an heir. He has decided to choose a lover for Katrine to give him his desire. And it will be the Champion of Tournaments. You will find romance, suspense, betrayal, murder, love... and Rowan will make your heart beat fast.  There is every thing needed for a juicy story. Good read but not a keeper for me.	2003-02-03
US	35316077	R35W3ZPTI85KLL	0553576003	281428122	Tidings of Great Joy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An &quot;afternoon read&quot;	Well, I enjoyed it! It's my first Sandra Brown book to read, but won't be my last. I wanted something fun and quick to read and this was it. I laughed at some things and felt like crying at others. I can see it happening- people getting so caught up in their lives and careers that they get too picky in choosing a mate - well, this was one of those times when due to Christmas Eve Party infatuation the result is a baby. Ria and Taylor (the ones involved) after much discussion decide to marry for reputations sake and legitimacy of the child. After moving in together they get to truly know each other- they realize just how much they enjoy married life with each other. The love bug starts to bite. Disaster hits and they turn to each other to make it through it. But then there is the question as to whether to stay together or end a marriage that was at first based on everything but love. Hey I enjoyed it and I like both Ria and Taylor- but I will agree that the very, very ending was not realistic and that disappointed me. I won't give it away - but she should have ended with the first &quot;surprise&quot; at the end and that would have been grand.	2003-02-03
US	35316077	RKXS0OOU9Y90	0440209633	296176410	One Wore Blue (Camerons Saga: Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What a wonderful book!  A &quot;must read!&quot;	Definitely a keeper. Great story, never a dull moment, lots of love. I agree there's nothing like a good civil war story with love mixed in. And this one is a powerful one to read. Don't pass it up! I am now looking forward to getting <BR>And One Wore Gray!	2003-01-30
US	35316077	R3TPL117EFWXLY	0671010093	330389236	One White Rose	Books	3	2	2	N	N	One White, one pink and one red rose!	I thoroughly enjoyed For The Roses- and went straight to the library to find these 3 smaller books.  Their length did not bother me. But they did seem a little shallow. Out of the 3, One White Rose is the best to me. I did enjoy the story and would recommend others read it. The other 2 were silly and too unrealistic to me (especially One Red Rose).	2003-01-22
US	35316077	R7306OJ09BXIL	0671010107	726293452	One Red Rose (Clayborne Brides)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	One Red, one pink and one white rose.	I thoroughly enjoyed For The Roses- and went straight to the library to find these 3 smaller books. Their length did not bother me. But they seemed a little shallow. I did enjoy the story for One White Rose the best out of the 3. The others were silly and unrealistic, especially One Red Rose. The story for Adam- a black African American but the 1800's was too unrealistic for me to enjoy. I do think the idea of the 3 smaller books was a great idea, though!	2003-01-22
US	35316077	R3C9B9DYKN8FXD	0671010085	788821036	One Pink Rose (Clayborne Brides) (The Clayborne Bridges , No 1)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	One pink, one white, and one red rose!	I thoroughly enjoyed For The Roses- and went straight to the library to find these three smaller books. Their length did not bother me. But they seemed a little shallow. I did enjoy the story for One White Rose. It's the best to me. The others seemed silly and unrealistic, especially One Red Rose. I am glad I read them because I would always have been curious about them. I do wish they have mentioned more of Mary Rose and Harrison.	2003-01-22
US	35316077	RQQX0YZAQOK2	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good but not one of my favorites.	I guess I made the mistake of reading The Wedding before The Bride. I thoroughly enjoyed The Wedding and in fact it was my first Julie Garwood book to read. The Bride was boring to me- it was too much like her other books. I do like the women having  strong personalities. But I was ready to get through with this book so I could move on. I did finish reading it but I won't recommend it. It drug on too much at times. Oh, well!	2003-01-22
US	35316077	R2IQDKWG0E4S1C	067187098X	887324024	For the Roses	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I am glad I read it.	I am truly glad I read this book- there was more to it that just a romance story (what the other reviewers have said is true- there is love, trust, respect, and loyalty). 4 boys that are living on the street come across a basket carrying a 4 month old little girl. Something inside of them helps them to decide that they want more out of life and that this little girl needs them and desires a chance to live. They come together to form a family and show devotion and love towards one another. After several years the English family has given up looking for their little girl that was kidnapped from them. But their attorney is devoted to them and continues the search- by continuing to check out claims that come across his desk. For this reason he decides to check a claim that leads him across the ocean to Montana- unknowning to him that he is about to lose his heart.<BR>     To the reader that was not able to finish- you missed out. There is love, humor, and suspence. You find yourself spending the night in a cave during a rainstorm, traveling across the ocean to meet a family that's about to meet their baby girl that they don't know exist, in a court room during a murder trail with the hanging judge presiding. There's not a dull moment. There were only two things that I would have liked to known the answer about- why did the person take the baby in the first place and what was Harrison's and Mr. Elliott's reaction when they found out Mary Rose was expecting a baby? I know they would have been joyful but I would like to have read about it.	2003-01-16
US	35316077	R19JK09IEVH0J1	0671003356	792256877	Ransom	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fast paced- great read!	I do believe Julie Garwood is quickly becoming my favorite Romance writer. This was the 2nd one of her books I have read and I am headed to the library to get another one. But I messed up. I read Ransom and now am headed to get Secrets, which is opposite of how I should have read them. There is love, humor, sadness, adventure, etc. in Ransom. I loved Brodick being good looking but not with the the best of personalities, infact he has a hard personality. Gillian was strong, beautiful, carrying, and devoted. It is a great read!	2003-01-13
US	35316077	R3GO0Y7WO18SZ5	0671870955	378094364	Prince Charming	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Definitely a charmer	What a nice change- beginning in England and ending in America. I liked it. And I really enjoyed this book. I liked ballroom scene. Lucas and Taylor are to meet there. Lucas (the stranger everyone is talking about) is visiting with friends and aquaintances and then Taylor makes her entrance.  She is wrapped-up with her friends talking to her when her ex-fiancee, William (come to find out is half-brother to Lucas) starts making his way to her from one side of the room while Lucas is making his way to her from the other side. Both get to her at the same time. FIREWORKS! She can't stand the site of William (who eloped with Taylor's cousin weeks before the wedding) and hasn't had a chance to really get a look at Lucas (tall, dark, handsome). William tries to get Taylors attention while she tries ignoring him while Lucas's looks have &quot;swept Taylor off her feet&quot;. Without introduction Taylor looks at Lucas and ask if isn't it time to leave- he takes her hand while they both start to approach the stairs to exit. Everyone is yelling whats going on, how do they know each other, where are they going, etc. when Taylor turns around and tells them &quot;He's my husband!&quot; Can't you just picture the confusion and excitement. And this was at the beginning of the story! It get's better!<br />Both Lucas and Taylor were using each other for their on &quot;agendas&quot; but the attraction for each other did them in. I loved Lucas' frustration with his physical attraction to Taylor and Taylor's innocence of it. Towards the end it was frustrating that Taylor was not recognizing Lucas' love for her.<br />And I do agree with another reviewer about Taylor constantly calling Lucas &quot;Mr. Ross&quot;, her saying &quot;my daughter&quot; and &quot;my son&quot; when she had just taken on the role of mother with the kids, and the boy changing his name between Daniel and David.  But is wasn't enough for me to get aggrevated with the book. And I did enjoy a break from the English rogue or knights in shining armor. A Montana mountain man was kind of refreshing!e or knights in shining armor. A Montana mountain man was kind of refreshing!	2003-01-10
US	35316077	R1KYZPCK2HK1CV	0380007789	856556145	The Wolf and the Dove	Books	4	3	3	N	N	It stood the test of time!	This was the first romance I read in my teen years. I went back to read it again and thoroughly enjoyed it.  I loved the story. Yes, there were times treatment to Aislinn was hard to take- the brutality to her mother, etc. But I kept right on reading. Wulfgar has had a hard life without love and stands firm on the fact that no woman has been able to break the shell around his heart. He has thrown his life into fighting and standing strong for the cause taking England to put a Norman on the throne. Aislinn's life has been turned upside down with the loss of her father, the abuse and loss of sanity of her mother, her home lands being claimed by a Norman warrior whom she is bow down and submit to. She has to be strong to be a testimony to the others that have been taken into slavery. But seeing them come together is a great story in it's self! Yes, it was worth going back to read again, 30 years later.	2003-01-08
US	35316077	R2WMMDAS3MTVYP	0671871005	65713554	The Wedding	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I loved it!	I picked this one off of the shelves in the library, it being my first Julie Garwood book to read and I sure am glad I did not look at reviews first.  I might not have read it.  But I did and loved it!  Brenna MacAlister is fun and loving. Conner is so reserved and &quot;proper&quot; in his own way.  But seeing them together makes for fun.  The reading is fast paced. Parts are sad while others made me giggle out loud. I don't see Brenna as dwelling on her looks.  She does mention that her older sister is the beauty in the family- but that is what she has been taught by her parents.  I hope you'll give this book a chance.  I loved it and am putting it in my library. Good reading, to you!	2003-01-08
US	35316077	R3IMCN7BKLFTBM	0517107198	200137234	So Worthy My Love	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Worthy of reading!	I agree with some of the other reviewers- I sure was glad to see Maxim finally show up in the story line and I would rather he had shown up sooner.  The story is a good one.  Elise has some spunk and I really liked her.  She was not one to &quot;take things lying down.&quot;  I admired the friendship Maxim had with the other men.  Even Nicholas and Maxim had a special respect for each other - and I did like the part Nicholas played. I do recommend this book.  It is a book the reader will find entertaining with humor, suspense, and romance.  It may take a little getting into it before the reader gets swept away into the story but- once it happens the pace is fast and sweet.  I rate it as being &quot;worthy of reading!&quot;	2003-01-02
US	35316077	RN97I6HMGW331	0451405919	739044355	Lord Harry (Coulter Historical Romance)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	I agree!  It's not a keeper.	I try very hard to give a book a chance- but this one was difficult to get through. I had to skip over parts until I came to some dialogue due to the description would continue on and on and on. It was not until I got 3/4's of the way through the story that really got interesting.  The romance did not start until the end of the book.  The story is great- but I agree with others that the characters were not even aware of each other.  I don't recommend reading this one.	2002-12-30
US	35316077	R2VOJTBWJZB6YJ	0380898187	348900842	Forever in Your Embrace	Books	2	3	3	N	N	You might want to pass this one up.	Sorry, but I am agreeing with several of the other reviews who don't seem to care for this book too much. I got lost in the detail. I questioned the names, and the bathhouse seemed to be the most popular of places in this book. I loved the idea of the setting being Russia instead of England. I have always enjoyed Woodwiss books but this is definitely not my favorite.	2002-12-30
US	35316077	R3RMZU4HKHFYHE	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun to read.  Good love story.	I recommend this book.  It is a good story- fun to read, though there were times that I could have knocked Stephen in the head for the way he was acting. But this is a good love story, even though I was worried if Stephen was going to swallow his pride at the end of the story.  It had me sweating a little bit there at the end- but he came through.  I recommend reading this one and I look forward to going back now and reading &quot;Whitney My Love&quot; to learn about some of Stephen's family members.	2002-12-30
US	35316077	R7T8NB7IKMCOF	0553801724	467944726	To Kiss a Spy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Don't go by the reviews- read it for yourself.	I don't agree with other reviews that put this one down so bad. I did read the previous novel \\"A Widow's Kiss\\" which is great! Pen Bryanston who was a child in it is now grown and a widow. She believes that the child she had who was claimed to have been still-born is actually alive and is out to prove it to her family and others.  Owen d'Arcy is a French spy for the cause of Princess Mary and has been told to get close to Pen who is Mary's lady-in-waiting. After being approached by Owen, Pen strikes up a \\"devil's bargain\\" with him to keep him informed by spying on Mary and inturn Owen will help uncover the truth of her baby's claims. I enjoyed the fact that Pen is intelligent.  She is not a raving beauty but yet has a way about her that shows beauty. Owen has a dark past himself that makes him mysterious.  I enjoyed this book and hope you will give it a chance.	2002-12-30
US	35316077	R127XNGN9PZQNG	0451406877	346386913	Captive (Florida Civil War)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Worth Reading!	James McKenzie is still grieving over the lose of his wife Naomi and daughter to disease and feels like his soul was buried with them.  He has thrown himself completely into the confict between the Army and the Seminole Indians with no distractions until that one evening when his sister-in-law, Tara has convinced him to stay for a birthday party at Camaron for his brother Jarrett. (1 of my favorite scenes in the book!) After dressing in his finest, he spends time reflecting while staring into the fire place putting his back to the staircase..... Teela Warren is the step-daughter of the notorious Indian hater and military officer Michael Warren.  She, herself, has been forced to live a strict military life, as well as received the blunt end of the whip at times when she has not conformed to her step-father's way of thinking. Having been brought by force from her home in Charleston with military escort to join Warren, Teela is to meet him on the neutral grounds of Camaron.  As a guest at Camaron, she has been asked to join the celebrations of the evening.  Dressed elegantly, Teela stops at the end of the staircase to admire the gentleman whom has his back to her thinking it is her host, Jarrett McKenzie- until he turns around and their eyes meet... Hey, I felt like I was there in the room with them.  I enjoyed the book and it was a lot of fun reading more of Tara and Jarrett. I have already read Rebel and wished I had not skipped Captive.  I highly recommend reading this series in sequence - I think you will enjoy the characters even more.  Good Readin!!!	2002-12-13
US	35316077	R2F1UUYTAXI3H	0553801813	694900967	The Widow's Kiss	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One I couldn't put down!	This is the first of Jane Feather's novels to read- but I will definitely pick up some more.  I loved this one and read it in 2 settings. I was actually a little hesitant of reading it because I have already read several books set during the 1500's in England and am starting to get a little tired of them.  But this one was just different. It held my interest from the very beginning to end. It was fast paced and I was able to feel what the characters were feeling.  I enjoyed all of them- even the annoying Pippa, the 4 or 5 year old who ran her mouth continually. One of my daughters was like that at that age. The love scenes were testfully done and did not get out of hand.  It was more realistic than some, too.  I was glad they did not jump into the bed right off- and he wasn't demanding of it.  It was just a great book.  I am getting it for my library and will recommend it to everyone!	2002-12-06
US	35316077	R27OOGMUWMC0TQ	0440216885	96112303	Runaway (Florida Civil War)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A must for my library!!!	This was one of those books that I found at the library- the cover was pretty, review was interesting, and there were lots of initials on the inside cover where others had read it. So I decided that this must be a good one. AND IT WAS!!! Never a dull moment in it. Oh, there were times the history got a little long (nothing I couldn't bare though) and other times when I could have strangled Tara for not confiding in Jarret or for lashing out at him the way she did. And just when I thought I had it figured out there was a twist that took me off into another direction. I ended up carrying about the \\"supporting actors and actresses\\" as well as Tara and Jarrett. I thoroughly enjoyed the story and am glad the lasaga continues in Captive next. I don't usually buy very many to keep - but I did this one!	2002-11-22
