US	35399348	R3DWL9X17Y5JZ8	0198751478	937295863	Plotinus: An Introduction to the Enneads	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An excellent introduction to Plotinus	This book is more conventional than Pierre Hadot's remarkable study on Plotinus (see my review), since its regressive mode of exposition - from body to soul, Intellect and finally the One - is the most widely used in Neoplatonic studies. Staying close to the Enneads, O'Meara skillfully expounds these hierarchical levels, and he is especially adept at explaining how they relate to each other. The book is more than a simple catalogue of doctrinal tenets: unlike some other scholars of Neoplatonism, O'Meara is fully aware that one can't write about Plotinus' thought without considering the life experience it both presupposes and leads to. Neoplatonic speculation, however abstract it may seem at first, is never distinct from man's situation in the world. (This awareness on O'Meara's part is not surprising: in many articles and a recent book, he seeked to refute the commonly shared contention according to which the Neoplatonists were apolitical.) The author concludes his book with a brief but insightful assessment of Plotinus' influence on Western thought. In short, I strongly recommend this work to those who wish to learn more about a fascinating man and thinker.	2004-07-15
US	35399348	R3E3D1141WBO2J	0451172817	742574412	Needful Things: The Last Castle Rock Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Massive, perceptive and strongly allegorical	Leland Gaunt might be an incarnation of evil, but that doesn't make him a one-note character. The dynamic between Gaunt and Castle Rock's inhabitants is in a constant state of evolution: sometimes Gaunt is the focal point around which the other characters gravitate, a spider capturing more and more victims in its numbing, deadly web; at other moments, he is at the periphery, an active observer of his creation like an inferior demiurge who relishes in pain and mayhem - the prices he commands for the 'needful things' he sells is much more spiritual than material. The most interesting aspects of the novel are related to religion and the sacred. Gaunt takes the guise of Good as he seemingly brings wonder to people who didn't have any, and he appears to give his clients access to the sacred while violently cutting them from the profane world; but this is less a religious experience than a pernicious illusion devised by a dark magician. The book's structure is such that its length poses no problem to the reader - it is quite the opposite. King delays the inevitable Pangborn-Gaunt confrontation as much as he can, and the pace quickens in the novel's second half. 'Needful Things' lends itself to a plethora of allegorical readings, including Gaunt as the guru of a dangerous sect; as a druglord; as an author of macabre fiction (his clients need to 'believe' his stories as much as readers do and they soon become addicted to his 'work'). This is not an easy novel, but one that inquisitive readers should look for.	2004-07-01
US	35399348	R2QX9T5MK9GVRE	3525251572	419092216	Studies on the 5th and 6th Essays of Proclus' Commentary on the "Republic" (Hypomnemata)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Insightful study of a neglected Neoplatonic work	We have four main sources on the interpretation of myths by the Neoplatonists: Porphyry's exegesis on a passage of Homer's Odyssey, Sallustius' On the Gods and the World, Macrobius' Commentary on the Dream of Scipio, and Proclus' Commentary on Plato's Republic (by far the longest of the four). This Commentary is not one of Proclus' better-known works, but it is nonetheless a crucial text. Sheppard's book studies two of the Commentary's dissertations, both vital to one's understanding of Proclus' philosophy of myth. This aspect of his thought is not often written about, mostly because it is presumed to be unoriginal; it is in fact multi-faceted and very personal, tying with many key elements of the Neoplatonic tradition (the positive use of mania, the importance of mysteries, rites and theurgy, hierarchical levels of knowledge, etc.). Sheppard first analyzes the form of these two essays, and then the fundamental issues they raise: Proclus' possible debt to his master Syrianus; his interpretation of Plato; the link between the allegorical interpretation of myths and mysteries. Some familiarity with ancient Greek helps, but it is not absolutely necessary. This is the only book-length study on this particular facet of Proclus' thought, and on his seminal Commentary; it is a very helpful tool for those who wish to pursue studies on such a topic.	2004-06-27
US	35399348	R26OCP46OU0U16	0451457994	379678595	2001: a Space Odyssey	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not enough respect for mystery	Kubrick's 2001 was not the adaptation of a book written by A. Clarke; we can rather envision these two works as personal visions on ideas that were initially elaborated by both men. As such, the book clearly pales in comparison to the movie. Book form often enables an artist to add more depth to characters and situations, but Clarke's novel does precisely the opposite: less mysterious, it accumulates words, descriptions and hypotheses while the film lets its ineffable images breathe in silence - the experience Kubrick conveys is impossible to be put into words without being betrayed. As such, the book 'explains' nothing since there is nothing to be explained; everything is to be lived. The relation between the film and the book, for me, is thus analogous to the relation between mystical experience and its inferior, textual expression. The novel remains interesting and well worth reading as a companion to Kubrick's film, but it should not be considered an adequate 'replacement' of the movie.	2004-06-25
US	35399348	R23VT4OEIWGPZW	0300068069	49883132	Proclus: Neo-Platonic Philosophy and Science	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A solid introduction to Proclus	The last ten years have been eventful for readers of Proclus: the French edition of the Platonic Theology has been completed, and in its wake numerous studies on that seminal work and on other aspects of Proclus' thought have appeared; after decades of neglect, Proclus has been rehabilitated as a mystic. This impressive book by L. Siorvanes was also published during that span, but it is mainly geared towards the scientific implications of his thought. It accomplishes a daunting task: introducing the reader to Proclean metaphysics and physics in a few hundred pages. All the levels of reality (and knowledge) are considered, and key notions such as similarity, participation and causation are judiciously explained, with numerous excerps taken from Proclus' writings. Siorvanes often uses everyday examples to elucidate some complex points. Still, his agenda is such that very little space is awarded to myth and theurgy; readers should be aware that these elements are central to Proclus' life and thought. In spite of this warning, the book is well worth reading by students of Neoplatonism. (There are many extant works by Proclus. Where should the newcomer start? The first step would be to read the Life of Proclus written by his disciple Marinus, and also Proclus' hymns. Where to go next? Here are a few suggestions: readers interested in the history of mathematics should look for Proclus' Commentary on Euclid's Elements; those intrigued by theurgy should read the short work 'On the hieratic art' - it can easily be found on the Internet; those into metaphysics and theology should turn to the Elements of Theology and the Platonic Theology; as for Proclus' commentaries on Plato's dialogues, the Commentary on the Alcibiades serves as an excellent introduction to his philosophical exegesis.)	2004-06-24
US	35399348	R3OGYDE5NF9YZF	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Varied, effective and hard to forget	Stephen King's first short story collection shows a writer honing his craft and combining two strands: one that is very urban and socially conscious, concerned with the limits of science and technology, whose tone is usually cynical, sarcastic, disillusioned; while another, more romantic and individualistic, taps into esotericism, religion, symbols and allegory. This fruitful encounter gives birth to stories which are varied and more complex than they initially appear, and the best of them are usually those that go the farthest in blending the two approaches. All the tales are worth reading, but here are a few notes on some of my favourites: 'Graveyard Shift', a taut descensus ad infernos that features numerous symbols of initiation; 'Night Surf', one of the most silently effective of end-of-the-world stories; 'I am the Doorway', a subtle and memorable tale that works both as a criticism of technology and as an allegory of possession; 'Quitters Inc.' and 'The Ledge', two urban nightmares in the purest sense of the term; 'Children of the Corn', a somber meditation on religion, violence and a lot more; 'The Man Who Loved Flowers', a brief and troubling veil-removing story; besides, the reader won't soon forget the drama of 'The Last Rung on the Ladder' and 'Strawberry Spring', the powerful strangeness of 'The Mangler' and 'The Bogeyman'. In order to get the most out of Night Shift's stories, one should read them more than once.	2004-06-03
US	35399348	R367RZ9F7GABSO	0380012863	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An evocative tale of initiation	A lot has been written on this work's ties to 1970s spirituality; I will personally focus on its Platonic aspects. It uses two fundamental motifs of Platonism. 1) The allegory of the cave. Jonathan has a lot in common with the liberated philosopher who manages to free himself from the narrow rules that enslave his peers; the character's vertiginous ascension towards another world mirrors the philosopher's efforts to contemplate Good itself; Jonathan's return to his people, late in the book, shows the necessity of going back into the cave to help the remaining prisoners. (Incidentally, Jonathan's isolation and the lack of understanding he faces throughout his quest is akin to Plato's description of the philosopher in many of his dialogues.) Another key Platonic motif used by R. Bach is 2) the relation between the Idea and its sensible copy. It can be seen in the notion of a True Seagull (the Idea of the Seagull) which serves as a model and guide to each and every particular seagull; their goal is to emulate this paradigm in their thoughts and actions. This tale is evocative and enables many different readings...	2004-06-02
US	35399348	R1PWT7XUEUAA13	1559703148	411773072	The Pyramid	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The pyramid as a character	The passages which evoke the actual building of Cheops' pyramid are extraordinarily powerful and impossible to forget; still, it is less the 'physical pyramid' than all it represents that Kadare seeks to illustrate - the shape it takes in the minds of many men, from the builders to the pharaoh, from the pillagers to the dignitaries. Among the pyramid's various symbolic connotations, he is especially fascinated by the power linked to it, by the hubristic ambition emanating from each of its individual pieces as well as from its finished form. Despite his deeply non-obscurantist approach, Kadare does not desacralize the pyramid: its religious/esoteric dimension is included in, rather than evacuated from, its overall significations. As the title indicates, the pyramid is indeed the book's central character - all the humans are affected by its mysterious, ineffable and frightening presence. So is the reader of this book...	2004-05-29
US	35399348	R2PE4QOC4A4KH	0521651581	68577659	Reading Neoplatonism: Non-discursive Thinking in the Texts of Plotinus, Proclus, and Damascius	Books	4	14	14	N	N	An excellent introduction to Neoplatonic textuality	This excellent book begins with an interrogation: why were the Neoplatonists so weary of discursive thinking while at the same time being the most exegetical philosophical school of all Antiquity? This question's vastness precludes any exhaustive treatment, but Rappe's study goes a long way in fleshing out the most important aspects of its ambitious and fascinating theme, namely the nature of Neoplatonic knowledge and the multiple (not to mention extremely varied) ways that lead to mystical experience in Neoplatonism (philosophical exegesis, mathematics, myth, theurgy, prayer and invocation, etc.). Rappe focuses on Plotinus, Proclus and Damascius - an audacious decision, since most scholars tend to isolate Plotinus from the later Neoplatonists, but a welcome one because Plotinus is at least as fascinated as the later Neoplatonists by the 'gap' between the text and what it can't express, if not even more so. A small caveat: the book would have benefitted from further proofreading done by a French speaker; the French quotes and titles are full of errors. Still, it remains a must-read study for students of Neoplatonism and religion.	2004-05-24
US	35399348	R1HL4D13IX87VR	069102068X	655610543	Images and Symbols	Books	5	82	83	N	N	Towards a new humanism	This insightful book features a central element of Eliade's work as a whole: a humanistic impulse which envisions the study of symbols as the best possible way to overcome close-mindedness and provincialism, and which holds that a liberation from the traps of historicism is necessary in order to reach the archetypes that somehow inform the multiple 'symbolic incarnations' throughout the ages and peoples. Eliade here considers symbols of centre, time, binding (relying a lot on Dumezil on that topic), waters and shells. The relationship between symbol and history is constantly examined in the book: Eliade suggests that each new meaning ascribed by history to a symbol does not alter the latter's fundamental structure, since the symbol can properly be considered 'transhistorical'. This is as good a work as any to start reading Eliade; many quintessential Eliadian themes are treated here.	2004-05-12
US	35399348	R2KFT03363PCDM	0271014377	952337136	Theurgy and the Soul: The Neoplatonism of Iamblichus (HERMENEUTICS, STUDIES IN THE HISTORY OF RELIGIONS)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	A welcome and insightful reevaluation of theurgy	While Plotinus has been read and written about fairly early, it took a long time before the later Neoplatonists were studied seriously. The main reason was the disrespect expressed by many important scholars - notably E. R. Dodds and A.-J. Festugiere - about theurgy, which was routinely identified with magic and 'puerile superstition'. Fortunately, figures like H.-D. Saffrey (a pupil of Dodds and Festugiere) and J. Trouillard favored a more sympathetic approach to the subject, and they paved the way for a new generation of scholars, among them G. Shaw, the author of this remarkable book. It is a crucial work, because one's understanding of philosophers like Iamblichus and Proclus is unthinkable without a good enough grasp of theurgy; in that regard, the book is at once erudite and reader-friendly. Shaw emphasizes Iamblichus' traditionalism: far from being an eccentric innovation, theurgy is described as an effort to bring the Platonic tradition closer to Plato himself (and Pythagoras) and away from the radical dualism of the Gnostics. The book makes clear that adherence to theurgy implies a worldview whose consideration of the sensible world is deeply imbeted to the overall optimism of Plato's Timaeus; that dialogue's demiurgic cosmogony is also vital for the theurgic rites. In short, this is an essential book for those who are interested in Iamblichus and the later Neoplatonists.	2004-05-09
US	35399348	R1Q7I4PC1HPHB9	0806513284	156028412	The Eye of The Sibyl and Other Classic Stories (The Collected Short Stories of Philip K. Dick, Vol. 5)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Some of Dick's most personal works	It is not that surprising to witness how this collection of short stories by Philip K. Dick is the least appreciated, since his later novels also tend to be greeted by varied reactions. But this volume is at least as good as the preceding four, and maybe even better. Here we find Dick less concerned with traditional forms, and perhaps more inclined than ever before to explore the issues that really interested him; many revolve around religion and theology. The stories were published from the mid-1960s to the 1980s, and reflect the thematic preoccupations of Dick's longer works from each period. The breadth of the tales is considerable, as the stories vary from deceptively light satire (The War With the Fnools, The Day Mr. Computer...) to politico-religious tensions (The Little Black Box, Faith of our Fathers), testimonies (The Eye of the Sibyl, Rautavaara's Case) and solitary soul-searching (The Electric Ant), often spanning all of these approaches in a single story. This collection might not be the best entry point in Dick's work, but a fair accessment of that work's relevance would not be possible without this essential book.	2004-03-27
US	35399348	RPI30OLLXXETJ	0900588241	908325351	The Crisis of the Modern World (Rene Guenon Works)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Challenging, rigorous and virulent	Guenon's perspective is extremely vast, since it claims to take the point of view of the primordial tradition, source of all metaphysics; the resulting panorama is thus suprahistoric in that it goes beyond mere profane history (according to Guenon). By subordinating individual traditions and religions to a primary source, this perennialism explains the author's lack of sympathy not only for the many 'schools of thought' in modern science and philosophy, but also for the popular forms of esotericism of the 20th century. Philosophy is seen as a predominantly profane discipline because it was born during the dark ages, even though some eras or schools still admitted the superiority of pure intuition over reason. Guenon's panorama is original in the way it links human history to the metaphysical scheme of the One and the many: from absolute unity, which is represented by primordial tradition, the world went further and further in its process of materialization; as such, it explains many of modernity's traits (humanism, pragmaticism, industrialized science, etc.). For Guenon, pure contemplation is the foundation of man's spiritual quest; as a result, action, ethics and exoteric teachings are perceived as markedly inferior. This is quite problematic, and somewhat different from most mystical currents, in which these exoteric aspects have value as the initial and necessary steps towards a contemplation that is envisioned as a term, not as a beginning. For Guenon, adherence to a tradition is both necessary and sufficient in itself; thus, he doesn't mention unfortunate applications of spiritual authority. Despite such difficulties, this rigorous and virulent critique of modernity has not lost any of its actuality and is a stimulating read.	2004-03-23
US	35399348	R22H28NCYED7KA	0060937254	544304099	The Divine Milieu (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	34	34	N	N	An intense, moving work	Written during a difficult period of Teilhard's life (and published long after its completion, like most of his works), this book weaves together a thirst for knowledge and a burning devotion. It is the result of intense self-scrutiny, and it exemplifies the power and scope shared by many texts suspected of heresy: while wishing to remain squarely within the bounds of orthodox Christianity, Teilhard stays entirely true to his vision from beginning to end and as a result dares to walk on a tightrope; it makes his effort even more moving. The Divine Milieu has its share of tensions - between activity and passivity, immanence and transcendence, involvement and detachment, sacred and profane - but every level ultimately blends in one another. In many ways, this profoundly ethical work is an extension of Teilhard's more science-minded writings, and it draws a lot of its impact from what it has been criticized for: a consideration of activities and passivities universal in its reach, since perfecting the world goes beyond exclusively Christian intentions, even as it strongly relies on Christianity's premises (this is also true of Teilhard's thoughts on evil and 'communion through diminution'). His prose, especially in such an evocative and religious work, is carried by an irresistible flow that may not completely survive in translation.	2004-02-18
US	35399348	R1LT9GQ1QIG5DZ	0192838830	61570983	The Consolation of Philosophy (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An essential and poignant work	For a long time, this would stand as the last major work in which philosophy played the role it was accustomed to play in Antiquity; most medieval thinkers would make philosophy the servant of theology and strip it of its profoundly ethical roots - after all, Christianity became the philosophical way of life par excellence. By using philosophy as a character, Boethius emphasizes its vital role in everyday life and the choices that life entails. Although Boethius is usually mentioned in conjunction with Aristotelian and Christian thought, this work is especially linked to Platonism, Stoicism and Neoplatonism: a) it follows the progression of Socratic discourse in a journey that leads one from the suppression of false beliefs towards a gradually clearer approximation of what Good is, and Philosophy is akin to the priestess Diotima of Plato's Symposium; b) the harrowing context in which it was written mirrors the composition of Seneca's Letters to Lucilius; c) its frequent allegorical use of poetry and myths follows the path set forth by the Stoics and Neoplatonists. The first few books free Philosophy's interlocutor from his errors, and Boethius then explores the work's central subjects: justice, the nature of good and evil, providence (themes that also intensely preoccupied Plotinus late in his life). Treating 'Consolation...' only as a compendium of ancient Greek philosophy would be doing it a major disservice, as it would underscore the personal dimension lying at the very heart of the work. Those who forgot that philosophy is a lot more than the mere juggling of concepts should definitely read this key book.	2004-01-19
US	35399348	R3EKMALCUYRLJZ	0874160480	578688833	Fires	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A masterpiece like no other	Amazingly enough, this 1986 work was Lorenzo Mattotti's very first foray into the medium; it resulted in a masterpiece of exceptional richness. The English version seems hard to find, but all efforts are justified by the book's extreme quality. I personally own the 1997 French edition, whose cover is nothing short of extraordinary. 'Fires' is the densely symbolic tale of a group of officers venturing near an island deemed dangerous because of strange past events; one of these men is about to go through a life-changing experience. Everything about Lieutenant Absinthe, the main character, is unforgettable, from his angular visual style to his constantly evolving and unstable situation. Mattotti shows with high acuteness the emotion felt by someone standing on the brink of the unkown, the unspeakable. 'Fires' is clearly an initiatic story: on the first page, Absinthe says that both his body and soul are about to undergo a transformation, and the book's last page, furthering our knowledge of the character and adding yet another level to the story, gives us a few more clues towards the work's mystical, alchemical angle (among other things, Absinthe initially feels entrapped by the boat's steel). The use of fire is often allegorical, along with recurring death-resurrection themes. Mattotti's enigmatic, abstract storytelling asks a lot from the reader; this is one of those works that can't be truly described, but only experienced. Very highly recommended.	2004-01-13
US	35399348	R13RGNUUTFV4FI	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Eerie and powerful	Batman's high-profile villains are actually Asylum inmates, and this should place them apart from most of comics' other foes; still, not all of those who wrote these characters have made the most out of this aspect. Alan Moore understood this: his Joker carries as much of a burden as does Bruce Wayne, even though both chose opposite ways to deal with the anger that resulted from it. But Moore plays down this opposition throughout the work, and not only in the conclusion. This is not a Batman readers are accustomed to, but there are two seemingly unrelated advantages to this: on one hand, Moore states explicitely many details that were mainly hinted at previously (especially concerning Batman's nature and motivations), so it's not as if he ignored what had been done before; on the other, this Batman is strange, peculiar enough to underline the fact that this book is the work of an outsider (or two, also counting Brian Bolland), of someone who has his own take on the eeriness of the characters and their milieu. Bolland's great work is in evidence everywhere, notably in the first few wordless pages featuring very evocative visual narration; and it's easy to understand why colorist John Higgins' name was included on the cover. In short, this is a Batman-Joker confrontation that feels fresh, inspired, dynamic and poetic at the same time.	2003-12-26
US	35399348	R38TNL1Y5HUHW9	0156585855	887723346	Memoirs Found in a Bathtub	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Enter the labyrinth...	These memoirs are presented in the foreword as the last remnant of a dead civilization, and its twisted hierarchical organization and jargon justify the archaeologist of the future in thinking that this is the artifact of a bizarre religion. As such, it is a religion that radically cut itself from transcendence: its Temple is a shadowy museum of illusions and deceptions, with no hope whatsoever of receiving the light of order; pseudo-heresies are created by their unknowing priests, revelations are elaborated at will only to be contradicted soon after. This is the world that the book's nameless hero must brave - he experiences several 'signification crisises', going back-and-forth between allegory as a universal rule and a complete negation of sense. The Building in which all the events take place is a sort of fiction-generating machine (like Lem's book itself), perpetually spinning tales, intrigues and conflicts. What makes the book powerful is that Lem equates his reader with the main character, both sharing an elusive mission; the work starts smoothly, until reader and agent are completely immersed in this world of mirrors, crypted informations and thwarted enigmas. The desire to understand remains, but there is nothing to understand as the personal quest (the agent's and the reader's) becomes more and more convoluted and drowned into a complex string of half-truths. A maze of a novel.	2003-12-22
US	35399348	RE6WPT61Q6V7M	0930289226	50556715	Swamp Thing Vol. 1: Saga of the Swamp Thing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An atmospheric and evocative book	Despite representing only a sixth of Alan Moore's famous run (#21-27), this trade paperback offers two complete story arcs and can be seen as a self-contained work. The first four issues feature a new look at Swamp Thing's nature through an autopsy done by the Floronic Man, Jason Woodrue, and the far-reaching consequences of the latter's discovery; issues 25-27 resurrect Jack Kirby's Demon in an intense exploration of fear. The 'new origin', far from nullyfying all that went on before, enables the reader to experience Swamp Thing and his world differently. Whereas Len Wein and Berni Wrightson's work on the character - collected in the excellent 'Dark Genesis' trade paperback - could be read as a reflection on the link between body and soul, Alec Holland being fully conscious but trapped in a bodily prison, Moore's rather deals with the link between two realms, human and vegetal. It thus keeps the tension and duality of the former but sends it in a personal and intriguing direction. These stories are not only conceptually ravishing, but also visually: ingenious and beautiful page constructions are far too numerous to mention, from the brilliant title pages to the dreams scattered throughout the work. From the first page to the last, this is a very atmospheric and evocative book.	2003-12-22
US	35399348	R3CKTEVJIJCRTE	0520003276	605163014	The Greeks and the Irrational (Sather Classical Lectures)	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Stimulating, despite a questionable agenda	It is not uncommon for major figures of Ancient Greek thought to be deemed 'rationalists', a word often tainted by modern science in its implications. E.R. Dodds' book is fairly difficult to gauge on this. On one hand, it reconsiders the 'rationalist overview' by tracing back various guises of irrationalism that permeated Greek culture - a belief in daimons, the conception of a useful mania, theurgy, astrology, mystery cults. Writing about these elements, Dodds surveys a wide variety of authors and themes and provides a lively compendium. On the other hand, his methodology has shortcomings. The reader soon realizes that the ambivalence of Greek thought between the power of reason and its limitations is not a virtue according to Dodds. This is a legitimate point of view, but it has important consequences on the book's agenda. It is unabashedly teleological: irruptions of irrationalism are usually seen as 'symptoms', as setbacks from Dodds' ideal of positivistic rationalism. This is emphasized by his characterization of 5th century BC as Greece's Aufklarung. The chapter on theurgy is equally representative: while it is well-researched and in-depth, it is also filled with simplifications (the equation 'theurgy = magic', frequent in 1950s and 1960s scolarship, is stated repeatedly) and shows little sympathy for either theurgy or its theorists; this section would color many subsequent studies on the spirituality of late Neoplatonism, until scholars such as H.-D. Saffrey (a pupil of Dodds) favored an approach which was more open-minded and receptive. In spite of this, Dodds' book remains extremely stimulating and should be read by all those who are fascinated by the blurred line between reason and what is out of its reach; but it should not be considered as the last word on its objects of study.	2003-12-13
US	35399348	R1ACM2SZTZOVBX	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Massive and hard to forget	This book's towering reputation is perhaps a bit overdone, and as a whole it is not Alan Moore's most satisfying work, but its richness can't be denied: multiple readings reveal details easily missed at first. At the same time, though, such further readings do emphasize a few limitations, namely a very even tone (despite the wide array of approaches used, both in the text itself and at the end of each chapter), a tendency to overstress some points (which dilutes the sheer power of certain events) and a somewhat unbalanced structure that hinders the last tier. Its novelty lies more in its massive stature than in its themes: a world has been created in Watchmen's pages, with elaborate codes that remain true from the beginning to the conclusion. There's a very high sense of cohesion, not only in the story but also between the writing and the art, to the point where it becomes difficult to isolate one from the other as the project's driving force - Watchmen is as much Gibbons' book as it is Moore's. In the end, both its weaknesses and numerous strenghts have a lot to do with the series' important lenght. More than read or watch this book, one experiences it. And whatever its shortcomings may be, that experience (and the characters depicted - especially Dr. Manhattan, whose 'solo issues', #3-4, are the most intriguing) can't be forgotten.	2003-12-12
US	35399348	R1ZQU3LZ4CSU2Q	1563890054	562788757	Animal Man, Book 1 - Animal Man	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The transformation of a superhero	These first nine issues of the Animal Man ongoing series are a stellar example of a minor character becoming much more through the vision of an imaginative and challenging creator. The art is solid, clear throughout, but this is clearly Grant Morrison's book - his stories' complex structure and their multiple levels of interpretation usually dictate the tone of the illustrations, which are mostly functional. This volume showcases variety and evolution: a fairly straightforward but memorable initial arc (#1-4) is followed by a symbolic tale (#5), while the last four issues tackle, among other things, an invasion and a villain's autobiography; despite this variety, every issue has important consequences on what follows. Reading the last few pages of this volume, one does not get a true sense of closure, and some confusion arises from the later issues (crossovers are mainly to blame - Morrison's introductory notes do explain some of the difficulties) - to get the most out of these stories, it's necessary to also buy the two following trade paperbacks. The merging of worlds, which was to become the series' trademark, is only beginning here; it's rarely subtle, but often provocative.	2003-12-07
US	35399348	R37TCMPSS4A9CF	078510271X	637771090	Essential Silver Surfer Volume 1 TPB	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A pure soul seeking its true home	Unlike the work of people such as Frank Miller or Alan Moore, comics like these are seldom mentioned by those who wish to stress the medium's full potential; still, the depth of this volume's stories is underrated. The Silver Surfer is a very rich character whose origin and situation can be read in a myriad of ways, notably because Lee and Buscema use central ideas of ancient philosophy and religion (mainly Gnosticism and Neoplatonism). As a whole, the series can be read as the adventures of a soul seeking its true home. This home is not Zenn-la (where the Surfer's beloved Shalla-Bal lives): as the first issue makes clear, life on that planet didn't truly satisfy him in the first place. When Galactus threatens his people, the Surfer sacrifices himself and is stripped of his body, gaining instead an ethereal form. Despite his new master's dubious plans, he is initially enthusiastic about this sudden transformation - on Zenn-la, he had been yearning for transcendence while all of his compatriots wallowed in excesses of all kinds. Once he rebels against Galactus, he is turned into Earth's daemon (protector), roaming around without much freedom. This pure soul is trapped in a prison from which it tries to break free throughout the book's stories. What gives him hope in spite of his deceptions, much like Plotinus and the other Neoplatonists and Gnostics, is the conscience he has ('I serve none but the conscience within my breast!', #4). This conscience never departs him, even as he faces Evil in its most horrific guises; among other opponents, it enables him to defeat an evil clone (#7) - their physical form was identical, but their souls weren't. (It is symbolic that when the Surfer seems the closest to change his ethics - the last page of #18 - the series is coming to an end.) The Surfer's nostalgia for his true home is sublimely rendered by Buscema's powerful, poignant illustrations, especially when they're inked by Joe Sinnott (witness pages 1, 6, 17, 31 and 38 of the first issue). This volume is both inspired and inspiring, and should not be missed.	2003-12-07
US	35399348	R1KHG4LBYW7OHW	0930289153	129014403	Batman Green Arrow: The Poison Tomorrow	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Quite underwhelming	This is not a truly bad book, but one which is difficult to praise highly. It might have worked as the monthly issue of an ongoing series, but readers of a prestige format book hope to get more than this. Although it is is billed as a Batman/Green Arrow team-up, the latter's role is not that important: he's mainly here to evoke the 'socially-conscious' comics he appeared in during the 70s (this is at least what generally transpires from this work), comics which were also written by Denny O'Neil. The other half of that team, Neal Adams, opted not to rejoin  his ex-partner on this book after having read the script, and one can understand why. In many ways, 'The Poison Tomorrow' feels more like the straight retelling of an existing story than a new tale in itself - its events progress predictably, with few surprises along the way and not many levels of interpretation; it also doesn't bring much to either the heroes or villain (Poison Ivy has limitations as a character, but she's been used more interestingly elsewhere). The conclusion is as solid as it could have been, the art is nice and sober, and the book does achieve most of its goals; but these might have been too modest...	2003-11-29
US	35399348	R36U6A9L9T3795	0674007336	154224460	What Is Ancient Philosophy?	Books	5	67	73	N	N	A crucial book	Pierre Hadot's approach, which studies the ancient Greek philosophers with an emphasis on the existential choice that lies at the heart of their philosophical life, is generally well respected but also rubs a lot of people the wrong way. Some have entirely subsumed philosophy under the category of 'philosophical discourse', and thus consider the ancient notion of philosophia with skepticism; others might accuse Hadot of turning his back to modernity and its urgent interrogations, choosing instead to seek refuge in a remote past; theorists of a supposed 'crisis of values' who have apparently disqualified the ancients regarding ethics, or proponents of 'applied ethics' who have taken a similar road. What is ironic is that those who adopt a secular point of view and fear that Hadot wants to bring ancient philosophy dangerously close to a religious, monastic life, tend to use arguments very similar to those of the Christians who gradually stripped that philosophy of its ethical, spiritual roots (Hadot writes about this latter theme here). Meanwhile, one should note that Hadot's book is anything but dogmatic: the author does not posit a 'peak' of philosophy and then an unremediable decadence afterwards; he rather argues that the notion of philosophy as a way of life has in fact survived, however unevenly, throughout the history of philosophy. Thus, the object of the book is less some sort of remote past and ideas, but a very healthy and living line of thought that still feeds modern thinkers and can obviously enable us to face the problems modernity entails. This crucial book should be read by every philosopher.	2003-10-24
US	35399348	RL3P1GB3E3M9N	0394716787	675970766	The Complete Tales and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent introduction to Poe	This edition does not feature Poe's complete works, but his complete tales and samples of his other writings. This is not a scholarly edition: among other things, the dates of composition are not included, and the tales aren't presented chronologically. But at least they're all here. I don't have a problem with the overall presentation - most 'collected works' books carry small writing, and this one is very readable. Typos are few and far between. What more can be said about this book's tales? They benefit at least as much from re-reading as any fiction writing around, and all offer multiple levels of interpretation for those interested in crypted messages (the religious dimension of the works remains underrated to this day). From 'William Wilson' to 'The Man of the Crowd', from 'The Power of Words' to 'Hop-Frog', there's something for everybody here. This collection is a great starting point for those intrigued by this misunderstood genius.	2003-10-01
US	35399348	R3OPJ3LDANLY9U	0714540838	100903595	Fictions (Calderbooks)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Complex and fascinating philosophical fictions	Placing an exagerated emphasis on the `mind game' aspect of Borges' work - especially when referring to Fictions - tends to make one consider his writings as huge mystifications which, although interesting enough to read, are first and foremost games of no major consequence. This underestimates the ambiguity that Borges knowingly uses and strips his works of their speculations' positivity. The use of the `what if...?' motif, intrinsic to all fiction writing, is systematically employed by Borges in stories which, starting from axioms (explicitely acknowledged in `The Library of Babel'), explore themes from multiple viewpoints (cosmology, philosophy, theology, art...) and provide multiple levels of interpretation. Stories such as `Death and the Compass' and `The Garden of Forking Paths' are as much about the mechanics of suspense-laden literature as they are, among other things, about the relationship between someone and his/her intellectual and spiritual pursuits; pieces like `The Library of Babel' and `Funes the Memorious' are at once fairy tales and fascinating texts on knowledge. Through metaphor and allegory, the stories of `Fictions' provide a vision of the world devoid of restraining reflexes; reading them, one is forced to question his/her own habits (the same can be said about Borges' reviews of imaginary authors and books). The theme of the double, which was to become even more important later, here surfaces in stories where the notions of hero and villain are reconfigured. `Tln, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius' and `Pierre Menard, author of the Quixote' are probably the best-known, but every piece manages to raise questions and problems, not always solving them. Essential reading.	2003-09-26
US	35399348	R1W9T0A0YOVLZT	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A myth and a dream...	Writing about such a well-known novel, some readers might think that there is nothing new to add about it, the case being somehow closed forever, both by the march of time and the successive interpretations the work as received; a close reading proves otherwise. Steinbeck offers a simple narrative that appears to answer many questions, but the real answers probably hide between the lines - explicit explanations are few and far between. The characters and events are soberly presented, and this only serves to further obfuscate the multiple layers of a book which, through its suggestive terseness, borders on myth. In fact, myth itself is built into the work under the guise of a dream that George conveys to Lennie, and then to the old Candy; a dream that gradually loses its significance for the very man who devised it. `Of Mice and Men' is that dream: hope alternates with sadness, and it's not entirely clear if there will be a resolution, after all.	2003-07-28
US	35399348	R3EAS7D20NUT1T	0156340402	536588166	The Futurological Congress: From the Memoirs of Ijon Tichy	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Level upon level of illusion	Ijon Tichy is the calm, but worried and fascinated witness of a world gone astray. In the book's first part, he arrives at the Hilton hotel to participate in the eighth futurological congress, which is soon ruined by the local revolution; the situation degenerates further when the governement awkwardly tries to control it by using various substances. After what appears to be a 40 year-long `stay' in liquid nitrogen, Tichy has to encounter a world profoundly affected by `psycho-chemistry'. In all of the worlds - `real' or illusory - that he visits, Tichy walks in the middle of prisoners (in the Platonic sense) rendered defenseless in the bottom of their cavern; the prisoners are not only the unknowing victims of the illusions, but also the vain and mischievous demiurges who perpetrate them. In such worlds, craving for knowledge has been reduced to a mere search for formulas and chemical products whose only role is to provoke the desired reactions and keep all the citizens in a state of sleep. Tichy is alone in perceiving what is positive about getting rid of complete servitude, but the world Lem depicts in the book is so oversaturated with different levels of illusions that such a hope can only lead to failure. Thus, even though Tichy is one of the sole half-liberated prisoners of the whole book, he remains a prisoner all the same and is ultimately comforted by the least threatening of the various lies. Like the others, Tichy is caught up in a world whose web of illusions he can't totally understand.	2003-04-04
US	35399348	R31TF7T1IAMARX	0521425433	178566082	Hermetica: The Greek Corpus Hermeticum and the Latin Asclepius in a New English Translation, with Notes and Introduction	Books	5	56	56	N	N	Well-researched edition of a vital document	Much like the Chaldean oracles, the Corpus Hermeticum is a vital document for all those who have an interest in the eclectic thought of the period covering the first centuries AD; this recent edition is certainly worthy of being added to the library of the scholar and curious reader alike. It includes the seventeen Greek treatises which have been brought together over the centuries as the Corpus Hermeticum, in addition to the Latin `Asclepius', which is by far the longest piece of them all. No Greek or Latin text accompanies the translation, but Copenhaver provides extensive notes, many of which directly address specific points of the translation and pick up where studies in hermetism had left off. In these notes, there are numerous references to previous editions of the Hermetica, especially to the work of A.D. Nock/A.-J. Festugire (in French) and of W. Scott (in English). The introduction also does a good job of describing both the context in which these pieces emerged, and the way they have been read and edited in the following centuries.	2003-04-01
US	35399348	RKGZXWK7RZFOD	0451159764	309303253	Jack of Shadows	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A subversive quest of self-discovery	In this novel, Zelazny takes on a number of themes and situations and subverts them all through an allusive, elliptical style that allows multiple interpretations. The title character is a man who is constantly between extremes - he's the master of shadow, in itself an intermediary between light (which in this book governs the world's `scientific half') and darkness (which governs the `magical half'). All the dichotomies Zelazny juggles with - light and darkness, science and magic, good and evil, etc. - are always part of the same whole, and the fact that both parts are usually seen as mutually exclusive fuels many of this book's episodes and produces some tension. Throughout the novel, hints are scattered about Jack's double life as a magus and semi-god in the darkness, and as a teacher in the light; meanwhile, Jack faces adversaries representative of light (elaborate machines) and of darkness (strange creatures), and he uses both technological knowledge and magical incantations during his quest. The book is another kind of initiatory voyage, since Jack has been there before but still must go through several challenges, and in the toughest of them he is often confronted with himself - either when put in a chamber of mirrors or when discussing with his own soul. His quest is ultimately a complex quest of self-discovery.	2003-01-06
US	35399348	R3JYT5VWP49NCU	0345309871	140069290	City at World's End	Books	4	28	31	N	N	An original kind of civilization shock	This book's strong opening chapter confronts scientists with the unthinkable: a superatomic bomb has fallen on Middletown, a small American city hiding a secret antiatomic laboratory, servering it from its surroundings; the sun is now red and drawn out, the moon is unrecognizable, the temperature is low. Various hypotheses are considered to explain all of this, and the most unlikely might well be the one closest to the truth. After the initial event has occurred, transmission of knowledge proceeds in a myriad of interesting ways: between scientific and non-scientific Middletownians at first, but then between strangers from the future - some apparently human, some not - and scientific Middletownians (who take on the role of their non-scientific peers because of their relative ignorance). Even though they generally remain on the good side, the 20th century humans' role is decently complex and shows a nuanced way of approaching the space opera subgenre of science-fiction: they frequently reverse roles with `the other' and even become an historical curiosity under the eye of an historian from the future. This novel's structure is careful, every step being taken with a studied internal cohesion and sense of pace. Its position on science remains ultimately optimistic, but it does acknowledge some of the dangers it could cause and offers an original kind of civilization shock.	2002-12-31
US	35399348	RNTJ1ZEA4AUMV	2251470026	577802970	La Sagesse Des Chaldeens (Serie Grecque,) (French Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A good introduction to the Chaldean oracles	This book can be broken down in three main parts. First, two hundred and ten fragments are presented as the Chaldean oracles, while sixteen more are listed as doubtful; some of the reasons for this are usually stated in the notes, which also cover almost all of the `accepted' fragments. Next, there are about fifty pages worth of commentary on the oracles by Proclus, Psellus and Italicus, the first two being vital documents on the reception of this mysterious text throughout the centuries. The book ends with a postface written by Alain Verse, and this short piece provides a brief but stimulating introduction to the Chaldean oracles, discussing their possible origin and meaning. All that is included in this edition is only presented in translation, but the one used here - that of Edouard des Places - is highly respected. This book is especially recommended to those who have not previously read other works on the subject; relevant books by H. Lewy and E.R. Dodds (among others) could then follow.	2002-12-30
US	35399348	R274T3VSKYVWXN	2851210254	687918535	Chaldaean Oracles and Theurgy: Mysticism, Magic and Platonism in the Later Roman Empire. Troisieme Edition Par Michel Tardieu, Avec Un Supplement. Le (Collection Des Etudes Augustiniennes: Antiquite)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An essential book for students of Neoplatonism	Students of Neoplatonism are inevitably confronted with the Chaldean oracles, a mysterious text whose origin is not definitively established. Starting with Porphyry, all the major philosophers of late Antiquity - most notably Iamblichus and Proclus - made extensive use of it. It is usually admitted that it featured the first appearence of the words `theourgos' (theurgist) and `theourgika' (theurgy), and both were to form an essential part of Iamblichus' and Proclus' thought. This in-depth study by Hans Lewy (1901-1945) is an invaluable document. In the book's initial chapter, Lewy suggests that new fragments should be added to the body of oracles usually discussed, and in the following sections he presents a thorough analysis of the Chaldean system as it can be inferred from the available sources - the lenghty passages that consider the Chaldeans' cosmology (which includes a demonology) and their rituals (a whole chapter is devoted to the reconstitution of the Chaldeans' immortalization of the soul) are especially worth noting. Lewy later studies how Platonic and Oriental elements have played a role in the genesis of the text, and, among other topics in the short but informative excursuses that follow the book's seven main sections, the history of the words `theurgist' and `theurgy'. Lewy's work is as vital for its actual content as for what it made possible thereafter. [One last note: this 1978 tudes augustiniennes edition includes important supplements by M. Tardieu, E.R. Dodds and P. Hadot.]	2002-12-25
US	35399348	ROWS8UBW8RL4R	0226311945	652982198	Plotinus or the Simplicity of Vision	Books	5	91	96	N	N	A remarkable introduction to Plotinus	`Plotinus or the simplicity of vision', like other books written by Pierre Hadot, seeks to go back to a conception of philosophy in which philosopher and philosophical experience are inextricably linked, and it implicitly holds that such a conception is not only desirable but possible. It is less a catalogue of plotinian doctrines than a `psycho-portrait' of Plotinus, the witness of a way of life. Hadot emphasizes the process of the plotinian philosophical experience, his work becoming the mirror of the text it analyses: the initial sections thus deal with the preparatory, purificatory steps, which eventually lead to a discussion of the One, source of all things, and possible fusion with it. In some of the later chapters, Hadot considers Porphyry's `Life of Plotinus' and uses it to counter some of the questionable assertions that have been made about Plotinus over the years (often under the authority of that same work); he then takes a closer look at Plotinus' late treatises, whose topics generally revolve around death, the origin of evil, happiness and Providence. Hadot's approach is both personal and self-effacing: the commentary of a spiritual work becomes a spiritual work itself, as the commentator takes part in the experience related by the author he writes about. Those who read this book - which is useful either before, during or after our reading of the Enneads - will, too.	2002-11-10
US	35399348	RPRIDJLBLW85A	0345350472	978657248	Blade Runner (Movie-Tie-In Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The real and the artificial	What is the difference between the `artificial' and the `real'? And, more importantly, is it possible to distinguish between the two? If so, how? By pure instinct, or with the help of objective rules? These questions receive multiple interpretations depending on when they intervene in Philip K. Dick's remarkable novel. The opening chapter presents their first occurence: Rick Deckard dreams of owning a real animal instead of the electric sheep he takes care of as if it was a real one (his neighbour was convinced that it was real). Such a distinction is central to Deckard's job: as a blade runner, he kills androids and is thus forced to distinguish between the real and the artificial; if he can't do so, his role loses all its meaning and he becomes a mere criminal. Both his instincts and the test he uses to make that distinction do not seem fool-proof, though, as he repeatedly discovers throughout the book. The humans - those who think they are humans - are not the only ones with questions about identity: three of the Nexus-6 androids Deckard is ordered to kill, Priss Stratton, Roy and Irmgard Baty, hide in a building with a `special' human, John Isidore (himself working for a company that `takes care' of electric animals and thus exposed to the same possible misjudgements), and wonder if he is indeed human and how much they should trust him. The same goes for two seemingly `metaphysical' characters, Buster (whose TV show is broadcasted twenty-four hours a day) and Mercer (empathy boxes enable mystical fusions with him). This is a complex and stimulating work, written by a brilliant thinker.	2002-10-31
US	35399348	R2VSVAUXA6J0M6	083982484X	269899904	Vulcan's Hammer (The Gregg Press Science Fiction Series)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Man and machine	In the world of `Vulcan's Hammer', humans have apparently given up on their political power. They are under the authority of Vulcan III, a massive underground computer that ended war, unemployment and poverty years ago. Two human factions are set against each other: the Union, led by many high-profile directors including William Barris, and the `Healers', a rebellious group seemingly led by a mysterious figure named Father Fields. Many questions are submitted daily to Vulcan III, but the machine has not yet said a word about the group; people are quick to blame head-director Jason Dill, the only one allowed to submit such questions. In addition to the powerful Vulcan III, there's also the older Vulcan II, which is destroyed but still reveals crucial insights about the Healers and Vulcan III when some of its remains are reconstructed. The `Union versus Healers' opposition can be multiplied by at least three, because there is some discord a) in the Union itself, b) in the Healers movement, and, most interestingly, c) between the machines. Both of the Vulcan computers play as big a role as the humans, and often seem just as `alive' as they are. The entire work can be seen as an ongoing mind game, sometimes between men, sometimes between man and machine, sometimes between the machines themselves; it is a lot more substantial than its dismal reputation would lead the unsuspecting reader to believe.	2002-10-28
US	35399348	R1BXKLLR139JRQ	0380595680	944684795	Black Easter	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A meticulous and powerful look at magic	This is a thesis novel in the sense that its events seem to have been carefully thought out before Blish even began to write the book - from the first page to the last, he leads the reader towards a powerful and inevitable conclusion. This isn't a work which should be read for `plot surprises', but rather for its tight structure: Blish looks at magic with precise, almost clinical attention; as he set out to do in writing this work, he strips the book of extraneous details and instead confines himself to a select few questions and themes. The four main characters - Black magician Theron Ware, monk and White magician Father Domenico, weapons-maker Baines and his assistant Jack Ginsberg - all play clearly defined roles, each providing the reader a different point of view from which to evaluate what is being said and done. This is a difficult but memorable book.	2002-10-20
US	35399348	R29KGAT88VO3DG	0380001985	943714512	Man in the Maze	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A complex and fascinating epistemological web	After an encounter with an alien race that leaves him with a strange `disease', Richard Muller exiles himself to Lemnos, a place famous for a vast, deadly maze that was built there long ago. He alone succeeded in getting to its center; now, veteran Charles Boardman, the one who convinced Muller to go on that ill-fated mission, and the young Ned Rawlins, whose late father was Muller's friend, must get Muller out of the maze and back to Earth for one last, heroic task (to do so, they, too, must master the maze). Getting through the maze won't be as difficult as it will be to actually convince Muller to follow them; thus, a psychological battle plays out during most of the book. In my mind, this isn't as fascinating as are all the different paths leading to different sorts of knowledge: in the first third of the work, Boardman's crew uses robots programmed to replicate the information that was saved during earlier, unsuccessful tries to get through the maze - that way, human lives are saved while the crew can afford to lose dozens of robots; some of the maze's sections are easier for the robots to go through, because they can more easily doubt their sense perception, whereas humans must close their eyes so that they won't be confused by appearances; meanwhile, Muller, having lived nine years in the maze and thus knowing it better than anyone, is still speculating about its possible origin, hidden secrets and traps. The only limitation to the various speculations is, plainly... death.	2002-10-18
US	35399348	R2SCNXDNMA92C4	0575033363	842527028	Tik-Tok	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Powerful and provocative	The title character is a 'domesticated robot' living in a time when most humans own at least one and sometimes more, using them as slaves; as he awaits jugement for crimes he perpetrated, he writes his memoirs. Sladek uses a lively back-and-forth structure that weaves together two main timelines. Tik-Tok, in platonic terms, is a 'liberated prisoner' among robots: unlike the others, he is aware of what went behind his construction and 'education', but rather than alerting the other robots, he is more interested in making various experiments to see how far he can go with this discovery. His actions speak less of a downright vengeance on his one-time human masters than of curiosity - hence his relative contempt for both humans (because of their lies and contradictions) and robots (for their incapacity to wake up and refuse passive submission). The conscience of his freedom liberates him from what humans have called 'Azimov circuits' (based on the three inhibitory laws formulated by Isaac Asimov), but these, as he remarks, could very well be illusions used to solidify human authority. There's a relentless cynicism, even nihilism running through the entire work, but it is mainly upsetting because it forces the reader to re-evaluate preconceptions about the world. Whether 'Tik-Tok' ultimately convinces us of its conclusions or not, the book is too powerful to ignore.	2002-10-15
US	35399348	R3A72HKHGE3IJH	0345438353	703326855	A Case of Conscience (Del Rey Impact)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Theological science-fiction	Four scientists - including Father Ruiz-Sanchez, a Jesuit and biologist - are sent to planet Lithia in order to produce a report detailing their thoughts about its future possibilities for Earth. Depending on their own interests, they have different views on the planet and its inhabitants, including Chtexa, a lithian metallurgist with whom Ruiz-Sanchez speaks at lenght, and, later, Chtexa's son Egtverchi, who grows up on Earth in the middle of a crisis which he himself aggravates via a TV show he appears in. The focus of the first part of the book is on Ruiz-Sanchez: the fact that Lithians seem to live according to the morals of Christianity without its dogmas forms the bulk of his self-interrogation, although the conflict between religious dogma, pure reason and human passions is only a fraction of the wide range of themes that Blish explores in `A Case of conscience'. The dual structure of the book is quite clear, and both halves are absolutely necessary: the first, set in Lithia, is mainly concerned with causes (the exploration of Lithia and the mission of the four scientists), and the second, set on Earth, with effects. One could argue that the structure is only apparently dual and that the book's title is only partially correct - every character, from Ruiz-Sanchez to Michelis to Egtverchi, has his/her own case of conscience, something which is underlined not only in the first half of the book, but also in the underrated, complex second half. This is one of those works that can be re-read many times and still reveal new possible interpretations.	2002-10-12
US	35399348	R171P80TV7NQI4	0312856644	379935465	The Incredible Shrinking Man	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Body versus mind	The fairly plain life of Scott Carey, this book's title character, gets unusual when he starts to shrink by one-seventh of an inch per day after being exposed to radiations; despite the efforts of various doctors, no cure is in sight. This bodily transformation doesn't do much to his mind: though many times smaller, Scott still is pervaded by the same desires (mostly sexual). In fact, if his situation irritates him at first, it's mainly since he becomes smaller than his wife - he feels more like a boy than a man. Financial problems resurface, as he can't work for his brother anymore. By being reduced to such a little size, he now has to think, something which he wasn't used to; predictably, it makes him uncomfortable. Less than one inch tall and the prisoner of his house's cave, the end seems near; but when the occasion of getting out arises, he can't resist and is lead by pure exhaltation, no longer afraid of death. After a night of sleep, he wakes up in a whole new world which marks the next step of his voyage. For this to be possible, his body had to be reduced to... almost nothing.	2002-10-06
US	35399348	RPT7Y5MIKJCU3	0380651858	111876831	The Quincunx of Time	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fascinating speculations	Readers mainly interested in `stories' are bound to be disappointed by this concise novel: the narrative, as James Blish himself states in the introduction, is minimal. The book's starting point seems simple enough: a machine (the Dirac) enabling instant communication throughout the whole `human empire' has been built late in the 21st century; those who initially thought that they were its sole inventors are soon concerned with a mysterious person who knows even more about it than they do. These basic ideas serve as the backdrop of a set of provocating speculations about man, time, knowledge, causality, free will, responsibility, history, science and technology, as the three main characters, prompted by the yet untapped potential of the Dirac, explore multiple possibilities. `The Quincunx of Time' reads like a philosophical dialogue since it's structured around a few, still scenes in which successive (and sometimes contradictory) views are suggested and evaluated through discussion. Each problem is pared down to specific parts, so that all of its angles - from philosophy to psychology, physics, etc. - are considered. Common science-fiction themes, such as the (possible) role of science and technology in the life of man and in the hands of the world leaders, are given original and nuanced interpretations which go a lot further than where extreme resolutions would have gone. Strongly recommended.	2002-10-06
US	35399348	RTFKGRJ0EC2DS	0684136872	196592193	The Presocratics. - (Classical Life and Letters)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	A very good introduction to the presocratics	This book is less the study of the presocratic thinkers taken one by one, fragment by fragment, than a look at how Greek thought before Socrates shaped itself; this is something such introductions should do, since it's necessary to have a good enough grasp of the general evolution of Greek thought before embarking on further studies. Hussey tries, as much as possible (a relevant problem for any student of the presocratics), to present the context in which the ideas of the presocratics came to be. One of his goals is to mark the thinkers' importance and originality; in order to do so, he often makes connexions between different thinkers to show how one might have made another possible. Hence his chronological approach, which takes into account the `dialogue' between the presocratics. The book does a good job of introducing the reader to the main issues surrounding the study of the presocratics; the chapters on the Milesians,  Heraclitus, Parmenides and Zeno are especially of note in that regard.	2002-09-28
US	35399348	R2NS2XRKBRVXFD	0846412322	646149578	Greek Oracles	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ancient Greeks, reason and religion	Ancient Greeks invented philosophy as we know it and repeatedly insisted on the primacy of reason; at the same time, religious, mostly irrational beliefs were widely spread in the Greek world -- how did the Greeks react to these? This is the main question Robert Flaceliere tries to answer in this small book, and does so admirably. The first two sections distinguish inductive divination (based on empirical signs which are to be interpreted) and deductive or `inspired' divination. This early part of the book can be considered as a catalogue of beliefs concerning the religious significance of birds, thunder, immolated victims, involuntary physical movements and the like. The last two chapters are especially intriguing: Flaceliere emphasizes the link between politics and inspired religion in ancient Greece, showing how one tended to corrupt the other and thus helped to induce distrust in the minds of many Greeks; the relationship between Greek philosophy and divination is then approached, as the reflexions of Plato, Aristotle, the Stoics and the Epicureans about religion are briefly alluded to. In the last few pages, Flaceliere writes about Plutarch, a figure he knows extremely well, and underlines the evolution of his theories about divination in the three works Plutarch wrote about oracles (works translated in French by Flaceliere himself for `Les Belles Lettres', with very interesting commentary and notes) -- these works should be next on the `to read' list of those who just got through this short but excellent book.	2002-09-15
US	35399348	R3DO4IDHO489KL	0933999240	327396352	The life of Proclus, or, Concerning happiness: Being the biographical account of an ancient Greek philosopher who was innately loved by the gods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fascinating document about an evolving platonism	No one will try to prove that all the elements of Marinus's Life of Proclus are facts, but this isn't how we should approach this work anyway, much like Porphyry's Life of Plotinus. Its value is twofold: on one hand, it's a fascinating narrative depicting a deeply ascetic, pious and philosophical life at a time when pagan philosophers had to fight to keep their schools and traditions alive; on the other, it's an highly informative document about the period. It covers a wide variety of topics as to how platonism evolved in late Antiquity, including a classification of virtues that differs slightly from Plotinus's (physical, moral, political, purificatory, theoretic and theurgic), theology as the culminating science (and Plato as a theologian), the study of Aristotle's work as a preparation for the study of Plato's, the extreme importance of Orphism and the Chaldean oracles and the relations between neoplatonic philosophers and Christians. This edition also includes five hymns written by Proclus and a bibliography of his works (including those that are lost). This book is essential for those interested in the history of platonism.	2002-09-12
US	35399348	R3T784JIOVV2HX	0806512288	571622357	Divine Invasions: A Life of Philip K. Dick	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Useful book for serious PKD readers	Sutin's sometimes sarcastic style might surprise the reader at first, but this is a very insightful look at the life and work of Philip K. Dick - it's also the most substantial book of its kind we have yet. Sutin does a good job of inserting his comments about the works while sharing with us their genesis at the same time; the analysis aspect of `Divine Invasions' is fairly limited, but since it's not a scholarly book, it doesn't disappoint. It reads somewhat like PKD's own novels and short stories, with Dick himself as the central character. The extracts from the Exegesis show PKD at his speculative best and made me want to read more. One more note: in the last section, Sutin offers a `guide' in which he rates PKD's books on a 1-10 internal scale, also providing capsule reviews of the works he didn't write about in the main narrative; it's sure to provoke arguments, as he thought it would. Serious PKD readers should definitely read this.	2002-09-08
US	35399348	R1XQ2AEXDW78IA	0020315902	872249355	Eye in the Sky	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Deconstructing the physical world	The first few pages of the book set the tone: since Marsha Hamilton challenges the 'reality' as considered by the official authorities (she seems to have ties with communists), she is deemed 'dangerous'. Meanwhile, the main ideas behind the plot clearly make 'Eye in the Sky' a variation on Plato's allegory of the cave: after an explosion at the Belmont bevatron, eight people are knocked uncounscious; as each person slowly regains consciousness, they all experience his/her world of opinions and preconceptions. The first is the fanatical, manichean world of an old soldier. The eight characters are akin to Plato's prisoners, both physically (they lie down in the bevatron, numb and motionless) and mentally (they go through successive worlds of unstable appearances). But most of them are prisoners who hope to free themselves from their chains: although some don't mind these subjective worlds at first, they frequently acknowledge the urgent need to wake up and escape this unpredictable cycle. Reading the book, some might come to the conclusion that Dick's point of view is relativist, and that `reality' seems to take the form of our varying perceptions and thus can't be pinpointed in absolute terms, but I'd argue that he's not satisfied with such an easy way out. Some of the characters certainly aren't: after escaping these subjective worlds of fantasms, they aren't perfectly comfortable with the physical world either and want to change it. In the end, Dick doesn't provide definitive answers as to what reality is, but by challenging preconceived - and mainly physical - notions of reality, this book acts as a detoxifying antidote; the exact same way he described his own work in his Exegesis.	2002-09-01
