US	35480195	R1CW44AODNCXZP	067103264X	855119608	Storm of the Century: An Original Screenplay	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Might have liked the TV movie better.	Let me start off by saying that whatever else he is, you have to give Stephen King credit for doing innovative stuff.  His serial novel \\"The Green Mile\\" is a good example of it, and releasing Storm of the Century as a teleplay is another one.  I had never read a teleplay before, and it was definitely interesting to see the different format. <br /> <br />The novelty of the format alone was enough to hold my attention through what was, essentially, a pretty standard King story.  King trots out all the hallmarks of his \\"schtick\\" here:  supernatural tragedy comes to small insular town.  Seen it in the Castle Rock stories, in It, in the Tommyknockers, in Salem's Lot, in Bag of Bones, in From a Buick 8...etc. I'll also point out that the insularity of his towns grows increasingly less believable in today's modern, wired world, but it's as if King's idea of what constitutes town life is stuck at say, 1950 or so--has he ever written a character who is a web-geek, for example?  For that matter, has he ever *shown* a character using the Internet? <br /> <br />But anyway, all his standard cliches are here:  Small, somewhat improbably insular Maine town?  Check.  Townsfolk hiding secrets?  Check.  Stranger with mysterious and evil powers showing up?  Check.  (Shades of Mr. Gaunt, Randall Flagg, etc.)  Stranger knows and publicly reveals folks' secrets?  Check.  Odd nursery rhyme or saying repeated at intervals throughout the story?  Check.  Stephen King's stock characters trotted out?  Check.  The reenactment of Shirley Jackson's \\"The Lottery\\" at the end was about the only thing here that seemed somewhat fresh, and even then, Stephen King's fascination with that story has been demonstrated in many of his other books (check out the Dark Tower III, for example). <br /> <br />I don't mean to sound as negative as the preceding might come across; it's just that this struck me as a fairly standard (and mediocre) King outing that basically rehashed a lot of material that he had used before.  Perhaps after having written for such a long time, he simply doesn't have that much original to say anymore.  *shrug*  Nothing much to see here, folks; move it along.	2005-09-25
US	35480195	R2U2KITXLGDOQB	1416906703	946932155	The Story of My Life: An Afghan Girl on the Other Side of the Sky	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Deeply emotional.	I found this story touching, moving and harrowing all at once.  It's been a long time since I've read a book that has stayed with me as much as this one has.  Farah's journey from the streets of Kabul to Chicago, IL is a wrenching one, full of twists and turns, hope and despair.  The way in which Farah is able to overcome what seem like hopeless odds and to keep on persevering in search for a better life for herself and her mother, is truly inspiring and I do not type those words lightly.  Drawing courage from an early childhood experience of Germany (brought about, tragically, when she was airlifted there for medical care after stepping on a landmine as a child), Farah finds the courage as a young adolescent to leave behind the world she knows and, with her mother in tow, attempt the leap across the ocean to the US--and all this before she is fifteen years old.  <br /> <br />I can't find enough words to say about Farah's strength, her determination, her resourcefulness.  All I can say is, wow.  This book made me realize just how petty and insignificant my own problems are--and wonder if, were I in her place, I would have found Farah's strength and resourcefulness.	2005-09-20
US	35480195	R3D76NTQOQ09SQ	0786886161	300971212	The Unexpected Legacy of Divorce: The 25 Year Landmark Study	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Divorce's unexpected effects on kids--wow!	Wallerstein's central thesis is that despite what adults would like to tell themselves, divorce is *not* a simple, minor, or transitory matter in the life of a child.  Divorce is a profound trauma that *forever* alters a child's life, often in ways unexpected.  It does not at all lessen the impact that so many children nowadays are from divorced parents, either; as Wallerstein puts it, \\"children come single file.\\"  The divorce is just the beginning.  After losing their childhood and family home, the child then has to deal with reduced--often severely reduced--parenting time from the custodial parent, who is devoting energy toward maintaining a home and rebuilding their shattered life and has correspondingly less time to spend with the child.  The non-custodial parent's investment in the child often drops to a minimum--every other weekend and a month or so in the summer is no substitute for the time and attention of a live-in father or mother.  On top of that, both parents are often dealing with profound emotional pain  in the context of a reduced support network and often come to rely on children for support in inappropriate ways. <br /> <br />And the effects of divorce don't end there.  In addition to losing the familial home, and (often) being forced to relocate, change schools, make new friends, etc (another traumatic event for children), the child is then often exposed to another series of transitions as one or both parents try out a rotating shuffle of new dating and/or live-in partners.  If/when the parents settle on new marital partners, then the child faces yet another transition of trying to integrate the new adult/s (and possibly assorted children) into the new family.  The complexity of this process increases logarithmically if stepchildren are involved.  Particularly in the case of the non-custodial parent, this often means that parental investment drops still further, as the parent focuses his/her attention on building a new family with the new mate.  Even in the case of the custodial parent, parental investment may suffer.  Stepparental investment usually cannot substitute for this, for various reasons, not least of which is that from the child's point of view the stepparent is an interloper and imposter stealing the parent's attention from the child and taking the place of the other parent; this is particularly likely to happen if the stepparent attempts to assert authority too soon or in a high-handed way.  (\\"You're not my real dad!\\"  is a valid complaint.)  Too often, as the adults involved rebuild their lives, children end up feeling (in Wallerstein's evocative phrase) like \\"leftovers from a marriage no one wanted.\\" <br /> <br />Problems of adjustment are further exacerbated by rigid joint-custody arrangements which are often negotiated around the needs of the adults and do not take the children's growing and changing life patterns into account, so that children's ability to engage in afterschool activities and cultivate friendships are often curtailed by being rigidly marched off to the other parent without regard for such things as baseball games, birthday parties or practices (one child in this situation complained that she felt like a \\"second-class citizen\\").  Parents in this situation are often surprisingly deaf to the children's needs (Wallerstein presents several examples of parents who, when faced with complaints of three, four and five-year-old children, responded with, \\"Everyone has to make sacrifices and they do too.\\") <br /> <br />The above all mean that children from divorced parents have substantially different life experiences than children whose parents remained married.  These different life experiences lead to effects that do not go away after a minor period of adjustment, but instead profoundly shape the way the child looks at the world, at romantic relationships, at parenthood, and at life in general.  Children from divorced families are more likely to feel like nothing in life can be taken for granted, like nothing is ever secure (one of her informants speaks about how, even though she knows it's unrealistic, she feels like she can't ever be happy because she's always afraid that a huge catastrophe is waiting just around the corner to strike her and ruin her life).  They are severely unsettled in their search for a mate by a lack of a model for building a lasting romantic relationship; instead they have the feeling that \\"my parents failed at this--\\" often multiple times, as they watched their parents try out and reject new lovers \\"--and therefore I will fail too.  Failure is inevitable.\\"  Children of divorced parents have a much more difficult time dealing with the inevitable romantic conflict that comes with any relationship and may see very minor marital spats as a prelude to the \\"inevitable\\" divorce (so what that they think their marriage is a happy one?  So what that they're in love with their spouse?  Once upon a time, their parents were happy and in love too, and look how *that* turned out.  The process had to have started *somewhere.*) <br /> <br />Although Wallerstein is far from being anti-divorce--her work with children has convinced her that in some marriages, particularly those characterized by physical violence, divorce to save the children is absolutely essential--although tragically enough the child often does not understand this and may miss the violent parent and be angry at the divorcing one--one of her main points is that in non-violent marriages, parents should seriously consider staying together for the sake of the children.  What she calls the \\"trickle-down\\" theory of happiness--the idea that if the partners are unhappy the children are unhappy, and that if the adults are happy the children will be too--is not true.  Children's needs and adult's needs are not identical, and children can be quite happy in a marriage where the partners are bored with each other, unhappy, or even completely miserable.  If staying together for thesake of the children is simply not an option, then Wallerstein lays out some suggestions for softening the blow, including trying to minimize change for the child as much as possible--although she points out, this will only lessen the impact.  It won't make the effects of divorce go away. <br /> <br />I have two main criticisms of this book, one specific and one personal.  First, the specific one.  Wallerstein has some very harsh words for the court system when it comes to custodial arrangements, and while I can see her point that the system is far from ideal, I feel that she doesn't give the courts enough credit.  The courts take over when the parents involved cannot or will not come to an agreement on their own, usually due to anger at each other.  Because of this, the parents are so caught up in their own emotions that they themselves will not put their child's best interests first.  It then becomes the role of the courts to \\"lay the smack down\\" and force through a deal, but it has to be one that both parents will accept.  How is a court supposed to *make* a parent put his or her child's interests first?  Sadly, work trumps extracurricular activities--for good reason.  Wallerstein also blasts the courts because she claims they make it difficult for parents to speak up for children's interests, since one parent that complains is often accused of harboring anger at the other, but the fact of the matter is, that this is a real problem.  Children and custody can be and all too often are turned into weapons against the other parent.  As someone once said, \\"Custody does an even better job than divorce of turning human beings into insects.\\"  Pretty often in Wallerstein's own examples, the custodial arrangements could have worked a lot better if either parent was willing to be a little bit more flexible, but sadly, neither of them were.  I think it's telling that Wallerstein herself, for all her harsh words for the court system, is unable to offer specific suggestions for reforming things, besides one proposal (a very good one) that parents who seek some custodial rights after a prolonged absence from the child's life should take time to reintroduce themselves first and that some sort of advice should be provided on how to relate to children who have changed considerably since they last knew them.  A second proposal--that custodial arrangements should be renegotiated on a year-by-year basis--sounds good, but I am somewhat dubious; if parents were unwilling to put the child's needs first at the time of the initial agreement, I see no particular reason to think they would later on, especially as both of them move on to form new lives with new mates. <br /> <br />The personal criticism is more of a wish:  Wallerstein deals with children who were very young at the time of the divorce and who resided with their mothers after custody.  I was in my teens during my parents' divorce, and the father had custody.  While a great deal of what Wallerstein said resonated with me, I would still have liked to see more about children in my situation.  It would seem obvious that near-adult children of divorce would not be affected as strongly, but I'm not at all sure this is true, and I would like to see more about it.  Still, this is a *very* useful book for children of divorce, in figuring out what the effects on their lives are and why.  Well done, Wallerstein.	2004-11-24
US	35480195	R2OQU65WN74AS8	0932212883	422189027	The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Stonehouse has a serious beef with the Coast Guard.	Others have called this the \\"definitive account\\" of the Edmund Fitzgerald's sinking, and it certainly is comprehensive.  Stonehouse takes all the facts as they are known and lays them out for the reader to draw his or her own conclusions.  He also (and this is highly commendable) includes the actual texts of the various documents pertaining to the sinking, along with pictures, sketches and diagrams, to give the reader as much of the evidence as possible. <br /> <br />However in the section entitled \\"A Conspiracy of Ineptitude,\\" Stonehouse goes off onto a tangential rant about the incompetency of the modern Coast Guard and how they are not prepared for lifesaving on the Great Lakes and their equipment is outmoded and their training is inadequate and so on and so forth and boy, aren't the Coast Guard just a bunch of sorry yokels? all of which has very little to do with the Fitz's sinking.  Now it may be entirely possible that the Coast Guard is in a dreary state today, and I'm sure that most right-thinking people would agree that the Coast Guard should have the facilities it needs to do its job.  Can't argue with that.  However, as even Stonehouse admits several times, there was nothing the Coast Guard *could* have done on the night of the Fitz's sinking, even under optimum conditions, because the ship just went down too fast.  Therefore, his hatin' on the Coast Guard is seriously irrelevant to the topic of the book, the sinking of the Edmund Fitzgerald.  (This may be why he saved it for an epilogue; but really, no more than a brief mention is necessary, and Stonehouse could have/should have saved this for another book--it might have gotten more attention in that way as well.) <br /> <br />The book is also somewhat confusingly organized; the primary documents are in the *middle* of the book for some reason when they could have been saved for an appendix, and the same could be said for the photo sections.  There apparently also seems to have been more sections added for the 1996 rerelease of the book, and these were simply and oddly appended at the back of the book; though they could easily have been worked in with the main text. <br /> <br />The negatives here, however, are mostly minor stylistic stuff; the substance of the book is good, solid, and well-documented (indeed, Stonehouse's inclusion of the primary texts is invaluable).  For anyone interested in researching the sinking of the Fitzgerald, this book is a must read.	2004-11-17
US	35480195	R7NDVEKFAD02R	0312421958	717339283	Natasha's Dance: A Cultural History of Russia	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Figes covers an awful lot of ground.	I'm just beginning to get interested in learning about Russian culture and history, and this book provided a good starting place.  Figes has produced a book that is incredibly ambitious in scope, attempting to cover hundreds of years of Russian thought about what it means to be Russian, right up until the present day.  He's a little too dialectical for my taste--he tends to present Russian identity as being developed in response to a perceived Western European identity, either in an attempt to embrace it or to reject it, and I'd like to see a little bit more about in situ trends of Russian identity; I also think he spends a little too much time discussing what elites thought (although this may be because like most societies until very recently, it was the elites that left most of the written records) and it might be interesting to spend a bit more time with non-elite individuals.  It's also a little heavy-going at times, although that may simply be because of the density of the subject.  Still, I feel that this book is a fair starting place for people who are developing an interest in Russian culture.	2004-11-15
US	35480195	RI768OGEYUE75	0743272935	412606618	The Good Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Timeless and universal	This book is set in China, but as with the best stories, the contents of this story are universal.<br /><br />I don't have enough experience to judge whether this book is accurate in its depiction of Chinese culture, but as a tale of human beings, of the cyclical nature of human society, and of intergenerational struggle and conflict, this story surely ranks among the greats.  There are a lot of ideas packed in here, and Buck handles them all skillfully so that they contribute to a greater whole.<br /><br />The book follows the story of Wang Lung, a peasant farmer who we first see on the opening page of the book, walking to the house of the great and powerful Hwang family to buy his wife, O-lan.  The contrast between simple Wang Lung, a hard-working man of the earth who isn't afraid to get his hands dirty and is respectful, frugal, prudent and temperate, and the powerful yet debauched and decadent Hwang family, is one of the most powerful themes of the book: as the Hwangs' fortunes fall, Wang Lung's increase, until by the end of the book Wang Lung's family has moved into the estate left vacant by the impoverished Hwangs.  On the one hand, this is a \\"Horatio Alger\\" story in that through hard work, moderation and responsibility coupled with a bit of luck, Wang is able to go \\"from rags to riches.\\"  However, at the same time this tale also illustrates the saying \\"shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations,\\" for as Wang and his family rise in wealth and status, at the same time they assume many of the decadent habits of the fallen Hwangs--and most importantly, they lose their fundamental connection to the land from which their wealth has come.  Although Wang struggles to instill his values of hard work and prudence in his sons, and though his fondest dream is to see his sons continue to work the land that was his family's (and in which his father, his first wife, and his faithful steward are buried and into which he himself hopes to be laid to rest) it is clear that his sons have fully assimilated to the culture of the upper class and have no respect for the humble occupation of farmer: his oldest son is a social climber who is acutely aware of his lower-class origins and desperate to distance himself from them as much as possible, while his second son is a shrewd and calculating merchant who thinks in terms of money, not romantic attachments to the earth, and would not be out of place at the head of one of Wall Street's Fortune 500 companies.  Wang's third son, meanwhile, bitter and resentful at the fact that his father has decided arbitrarily that he will be the son who stays on the farm (this was not done out of cruelty, for Wang genuinely believes that the trade of farmer is the most satisfying trade there is), runs away to join the army, never to return.<br /><br />Not only are his sons corrupted by wealth and power, but Wang himself for all his honest values, also succumbs to the temptations presented by elite status.  This is manifested most overtly in his decision to abandon O-lan, his faithful and uncomplaining wife on whom most of his success was built, for the delicate and enticing courtesan Lotus, but can also be seen in the way he subtly comes to think and act superior to the townsfolk (this is clearly demonstrated by his treatment of Ching, a man who shared with Wang his last handful of beans at a time when both families were poor and starving, and whom Wang repays when his own fortunes slightly improve by making Ching his steward), and also in Wang's increasing separation from the land as his fortunes rise and he can afford to (and does) hire laborers to work the land for him.<br /><br />It is also clear that Wang's increasing fortunes bring him no rest, because as he accumulates more power and wealth, vicious and entrenched rivalries break out among his sons and their wives (Buck repeats the phrase \\"there was no peace in his house\\" several times) and it is not hard to see that these rivalries will split thefamily in the next generation.  In fact, as Wang grows old and feeble at the end of his life, he chooses to move away from the rivalries and tensions of the great house and back into the simple structure he occupied in his younger days; he lives there with only a young serving girl and his \\"poor fool\\" retarded daughter for company.  It is only here, back at his roots, that Wang is at last able to find peace.  The final scene of the book, however, makes it clear that Wang's hard work and dreams will not last beyond his death, as his sons talk openly of selling their family land over the head of their senile father.  Just as the Hwangs before them fell, the family of Wang Lung too will fall.<br /><br />This story is set against the backdrop of the Chinese Revolution (though this is hardly mentioned in the book), and Chinese rural culture is described lovingly and in detail--Pearl S. Buck apparently spent much of her childhood in China, and draws on her first-hand knowledge here.  However, the story itself is applicable to all cultures in that it deals with timeless and universal themes of virtue, corruption, decadence, and cross-generational conflict.  And while it is ultimately a tragedy, it's hard not to admire Wang's resilience, determination and fortitude.  This is a great story and a great work of literature.ll split the family in the next generation.  In fact, as Wang grows old and feeble at the end of his life, he chooses to move away from the rivalries and tensions of the great house and back into the simple structure he occupied in his younger days; he lives there with only a young serving girl and his \\"poor fool\\" retarded daughter for company.  It is only here, back at his roots, that Wang is at last able to find peace.  The final scene of the book, however, makes it clear that Wang's hard work and dreams will not last beyond his death, as his sons talk openly of selling their family land over the head of their senile father.  Just as the Hwangs before them fell, the family of Wang Lung too will fall. <br /> <br />This story is set against the backdrop of the Chinese Revolution (though this is hardly mentioned in the book), and Chinese rural culture is described lovingly and in detail--Pearl S. Buck apparently spent much of her childhood in China, and draws on her first-hand knowledge here.  However, the story itself is applicable to all cultures in that it deals with timeless and universal themes of virtue, corruption, decadence, and cross-generational conflict.  And while it is ultimately a tragedy, it's hard not to admire Wang's resilience, determination and fortitude.  This is a great story and a great work of literature.	2004-11-01
US	35480195	R2XSRVNWVESN3I	0142003344	879167194	The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature	Books	3	309	373	N	N	Interesting, but not particularly well researched	Pinker constructs an elaborate and well-thought out argument, and his overall thesis is one whose outlines I largely agree with--that as biological creatures, humans are influenced by biology in many ways, often so subtly that we are unaware of it.  Humans are animals, after all, and subject to the same instinctual drives and influences as other animals are; it's only human arrogance that would ever lead us to think otherwise.  His assertion that humans are inherently *both* peaceable, kind, and generous *and* violent, savage and cruel, is one that I also agree with; see my point above about humans being animals.   <br /> <br />However, I have doubts about the validity of some of the information Pinker presents here.  One reviewer called Pinker a \\"polymath;\\" another and less favorable way to state that might be to say \\"jack of all trades, master of none.\\"  Pinker presents scores upon scores of statistics, facts, factoids and examples to buttress his claims, and at first glance it does all appear to be very impressive.  However, on closer inspection, I found that claims pertaining to fields of which I had knowledge were all somewhat dubious.  For example, his contrast on page 45 of common chimps and bonobos, in which he characterizes common chimps as \\"among the most aggressive mammals known to zoology\\" and bonobos as \\"among the most peaceful,\\" \\"in common chimps, males dominate the females while among bonobos the females have the upper hand, common chimps have sex for procreation, bonobos for recreation\\" is a gross oversimplification of the differences between these two species, to the point of caricature if not outright distortion.  His attribution of the Spanish conquest of the Aztecs to the superior technology of the Spaniards is a popular Western fantasy that has been strongly challenged in recent years.  In particular one very persuasive alternate explanation that has been put forth argues that the defeat of the Aztecs was largely a Native American phenomenon: the Aztecs had succeeded in angering a very large proportion of the surrounding civilizations, so that when Cortes showed up, he served as a rallying point for large numbers of these disaffected peoples.  These nations were willing to contribute large numbers of troops to fight alongside him, and it was largely thanks to these indigenous troops that Cortes was able to succeed.  Certainly it can be argued that this is a more persuasive hypothesis than that a small band of Europeans, in unfamiliar territory with limited supplies and ammuntion, were able to all on their own throw down one of the largest empires of the New World, no matter *what* technological advantages they may have possessed.  Pinker also does not often cite the primary literature; a large number of his factoids are drawn from books.  This is a problem, as often the peer review process for books is not as stringent as that applied to articles published in journals. <br /> <br />In addition, I found Pinker's analysis of sexual assault to be severely flawed.  While I agree with Pinker that the concept that \\"rape is not about sex, it is about power\\" has in some circles ascended to the status of dogma and is a concept that deserves some thorough scrutiny (the idea that all sexual assault everywhere across all cultures is only about one thing?), again, he doesn't seem to have a good understanding of the cultural and social dynamics surrounding sex roles and sexual assault.  For example, he argues that feminists assert that \\"fear of rape has to be pounded into women by ... social influence.\\"  This is a distortion of an assertion by feminist thinkers that fear of rape--in particular, fear of \\"stranger rape,\\" the least common form of rape--is often deployed as a tactic to limit women's behavior, freedom, and freedom of choice.  For example, traditional societies that place heavy restrictions on women's dress, appearance and behavior often claim they are doing so in order to \\"protect\\" them.   <br /> <br />His assertion that countries with far more rigid gender roles demonstrate far fewer rates of rape overlooks the fact that societies with rigid gender roles and norms will often very severely penalize rape victims who come forward.  Therefore the seemingly low rate of sexual assault in these societies cannot *by any means* be taken at face value.  Furthermore, many incidents which are considered rape in modern Western society are often not so considered in more traditional societies (or indeed, in our own, until very recently).  So for example in the case of marital rape, though the woman knows she did not consent to sex, and though she experiences great distress over the event, she will not consider it rape because according to the norms of her society she does not have the right to refuse sex with her husband, so therefore she \\"cannot\\" be raped by him.  This also affects rape statistics.  Finally, in seeking to demonstrate that rape is about sex, he overlooks many situations where it is *also* about power.  For example, he asserts that rapists tend to be males with marginal status in society.  Perhaps many of them are, but how about those who are not? For example, the captain of industry who is accustomed to getting his way in every situation and will not take no for an answer from his lowly secretary?   <br /> <br />Pinker does do a very good job laying out the history behind the \\"blank slate\\" approach and explaining some of the ideological reasons why people are so committed to this position--and he does indicate that this position is often adopted for irreproachable moral reasons; his main issue is that this adoption often leads to distortions of the evidence being presented as fact.  He is plain about how and why he thinks the ideological use of bioloical data is wrongheaded and harmful.  His reasoning is often well-thought-out and comprehensive, based on the information he presents.  However, in his drive to bring the \\"nature\\" side into prominence, I feel he overlyrejects the influence of culture.  As previously stated, I also have qualms about the accuracy of much of the information he tosses in; based on the matters of which I have knowledge, Pinker does not always adequately grasp the nuances of the examples he's using.  However whether you agree or disagree with him, there's plenty of food for thought here.  The bottom line is, as an anthropologist, Pinker's a great biologist.    If he grasped the culture better, this would be a five-star book.	2004-10-31
US	35480195	R1PD75Q2GF00BI	0674574400	165586255	Miles to Go: A Personal History of Social Policy	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Thought-provoking but somewhat difficult to follow	In a series of loosely-connected chapters roughly organized around topics such as illegitimacy, welfare, and the rise of drug \\"epidemics,\\" Moynihan reviews his life, work and positions in social policy. <br /> <br />Written in the aftermath of the 1994 Republican takeover of Congress, Moynihan essentially seems to be arguing that liberalism needs to refocus its paradigm.  He claims that much of our social policy is rooted in a 19th-century understanding of problems inherent to an industrial economy, and that by and large, these problems have been solved (for example, the problem of stabilizing the economy; he also has some interesting and novel insights on the \\"health-care crisis,\\" pointing out that in comparison to the 1800s and early 1900s, the health care system has improved immeasurably, not least because we've finally managed to get the medical profession to the point where it actually *doesn't hurt* its patients--now if we could only pull off the same with psychology!)  He argues that the problems we are now facing, such as the persistence of poverty in the inner cities, are problems germane to a new kind of *post-industrial* society, and are less amenable to the kinds of social policy solutions that helped deal with the earlier problems.  He sees many modern problems as being significantly influenced by what he calls \\"character\\" effects.  Putting this in less loaded terms, he's essentially arguing that urban poverty is concomitant with various negative social factors--such as fatherlessness, early single motherhood, drug lifestyle, etc.--which at the very least make it more difficult to escape conditions of urban poverty.  (There is something to this idea: this is somewhat similar to the thesis put forward by Paul Willis in LEARNING TO LABOR, his study of British working-class youths.)  These problems require new manners of approaches in order to deal with them.  These approaches, however, have been lacking; partly, Moynihan argues, because liberals have beenreluctant to discuss these negative social factors because it goes against political correctness and because it can sound like \\"blaming the victim.\\"   <br /> <br />His stance against welfare reform comes across a little too much as \\"Think of the children!  Won't somebody *please* THINK of the CHILDREN!\\" hysteria, and his apocalyptic predictions about mass homelessness, etc. were not borne out (see DeParle's book THE AMERICAN DREAM for a thorough exploration of this topic, but essentially it turned out that welfare recipients were a lot less dependent on welfare and a lot more able to find jobs than many on the left had thought--which isn't to say, by the way, that welfare reform worked).  His rhetoric on crime also comes across as exaggerated and unreliable.  For example, at one point he attempts to buttress an argument by comparing supposed lists of biggest problems faced by schools in the 1940s (chewing gum, running in halls, etc.) vs the 1990s (teen pregnancy, suicide, drugs.)  This is an urban legend which has been debunked (check out snopes.com--Language, then Documentary Evidence). He also is somewhat cavalier in his use of statistics and factoids--at one point, he cites the factoid that SAT scores have declined precipitously over the past forty or fifty years or so, but fails to mention that possible confounding variables including the fact  that SATs used to be administered to a relatively elite population but are now being taken by an ever-larger and increasing cross-section of society.  Careless use of decontextualized factoids like this have the effect of undercutting the validity of his claims.  Others have also commented that Moynihan comes across as a little too self-congratulatory (which he does).  Nevertheless, this work provides food for thought on a range of social policy, and a somewhat innovative take on understanding modern social ills.	2004-10-27
US	35480195	R3SU6EW1MJNOMB	0399152326	488819459	The Runes of the Earth (Last Chronicles of Thomas Covenant)	Books	5	16	22	N	Y	Donaldson goes three for three.	I got this book Sunday, at six in the evening, and stayed up till two finishing it.  Couldn't put it down, and yet at the same time I have only scratched the surface.  I'll need to reread it at least a couple more times before I feel like I start to have a handle on it.    Okay, to guys complaining that this isn't as complex as the previous series--guys, this is only book 1 of a projected *quartet.*  Give the man some time till you see what he's up to.    Much less grinding and depressing than THE WOUNDED LAND, in that the Land isn't all destroyed when Linden gets there, and still contains people of worth, who haven't been so beaten down by their self-loathing that they can't function anymore.  Also, from a purely \\"plot\\" point of view, I'm going to say that I saw the thing with the Haruchai coming a mile away--all the way at the end of the last series--and yet at the same time it wasn't a let-down at all to see what Donaldson did with it.  From a symbolic point of view, however, I'm a little confused--the Haruchai don't seem to be playing the allegorical role of \\"the conscience\\" as they did in previous books, and I haven't pegged what the Ramen represent yet.  Oh well.  These things might become clear in time.    For those complaining that Donaldson is simply rehashing the themes he has already explored, I'd like to point out:  1.)  How long has it been since you've seen a fantasy series with *any* themes in it at *all?* (Martin sure isn't trying to explore any profound themes in ASOIAF.  Jordan was at least *attempting* to explore gender differences, albeit in an annoying way, but then he collapsed into self-parody.)  2.)  This is the first book of a quartet.    Wait a bit, until you see how it all ends.  If I remember correctly, Donaldson has said (and I don't consider this a spoiler, since he's been saying it for twenty years) that in this series, Thomas Covenant will become the Despiser and end up destroying the Land.  That alone suggests that he's heading in aprofoundly different direction than he's done before.      Already in this book, Donaldson lays a couple of hints for what might become important later on:  the emphasis he is placing on being willing to listen (note that everywhere Linden goes, people are relating her stories, often at odd and inappropriate times--suggesting that this tendency *in and of itself* is something Donaldson wants us to pay attention to; also that Covenant himself tells her that she needs to \\"listen\\" in a dream), the idea of gratitude motivating community contribution (note that Linden and her hospital in the real world are financed in large part by a patchwork of volunteer services provided by a grateful community, and compare this to the dress of the Mahdoubt, composed of patches of fabric given her by grateful members of Revelstone--which may serve to set up a symbolic equivalency between Linden and the Mahdoubt); the emphasis on partial blindness or sight (Kevin's Dirt robbing the Land members of their health sense; the Mahdoubt having one normal eye and one orange eye; Stave losing an eye, Bhapa and his cataract in one eye which Linden is able to heal).  When Donaldson hammers on points like this it's usually because they're going to be significant down the line--note the prevalence of crucifixion imagery in THE SECOND CHRONICLES, for example, which served to foreshadow and underscore Covenant's final act of sacrifice.    Oh, and for the record, I don't see Stave as a Cail clone.  This is the first book of the series.  Stave may appear to be in a similar place as Cail right now, but he has three more books to go before we see his final fate.  That's a *lot* of time!  Also, I have a suspicion that there's something about Stave that Donaldson hasn't told us yet--Linden thinks a couple times that Stave is much more flexible in his thinking than the Haruchai she knew (okay, I know, but we're dealing with the Haruchai here--it's a relative thing).  For example, she is surprised that Staveis willing to grant her and Anele two days with the Ramen while \\"in her experience, his people neither compromised nor negotiated.\\"  Again, usually when Donaldson points something like this up, it's significant for some reason.  This may suggest that there's something in Stave's history that Donaldson is going to bring up later.  Give the man some time.  This is only the opening book of the series, but even so, in my opinion, the indications are that it's going to be just as significant as the first and second series.  (Actually in my opinion the second series was a little weaker than the first; this series may turn out to be just as good as the first again.)	2004-10-19
US	35480195	RZV8N5WD7XONV	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	44	48	N	Y	"I haven't read the book.  I don't need to."  Interesting.	Well, unlike my esteemed reviewer below, I *haven't* read the correspondence between Lomborg and Scientific American, so instead of commenting on that, what I will comment on here is the *book* at the top of this page, to wit THE SKEPTICAL ENVIRONMENTALIST.<br /><br />The environment is one of those areas like religion where it has become practically impossible to have a rational, reasonable debate or even a conversation, because there's so much rancor on both sides.  (People commenting on the book without bothering to read it demonstrate the point: this subject is *so* emotional that there's an unwillingness to give an honest, open-minded look at the arguments being presented--on either side.)  However, in this contentious area, Lomborg does two things that immediately got my attention: a.) he cites the hell out of his book (71 pages of sources) and b.) he hammers home the point that EVERYTHING IS A TRADE-OFF.  *Nothing is for free.*  Increased spending on the environment must come at the expense of other areas, including areas such as anti-poverty spending that most people--including environmentalists--would consider to be worthy goals.  And given that we don't have unlimited resources, it is best to focus our resources where they will do the most good.  (2000+ sources don't make for an unbiased book?  I'd be curious to know, then, what exactly does...particularly as Lomborg pulled many of his figures and statistics from UN sources.  And as for this book allegedly not having gone through peer review, I'd be interested to know whether prominent environmental tomes like EARTH IN THE BALANCE have gone through peer review.)<br /><br />Lomborg also leans on the point that long-term forecasting is an incredibly tricky business (which it is--chaos theory, anyone?) and comments that today's computer models are not complex enough to carry this out accurately, which I find thoroughly plausible (in fact I would find it unrealistic to argue otherwise! the idea that we understand everything about the environment--or indeed, *any* subject under the sun--smacks of hubris to me.)  He asserts that natural climate change probably plays a large part in global warming while not denying that humans are having an effect and that restriction of greenhouse gases is an important part of the strategy to deal with it (in fact, his position is that current efforts, including the Kyoto treaty, are too lax to have much effect), but also states that serious efforts must include imposing more penalties on the developing world and our resources might be better spent attempting to assist them.  In fact, the second point he hammers home throughout his work--that it would probably be best from a cost-benefit analysis for us to spend our resources alleviating poverty, in particular Third-World poverty--hardly enshrines him in the first rank of Evil Capitalists.<br /><br />Are there problems with this book?  Sure.  Lomborg's assertions that we will continue to find new deposits of natural resources in the future seem just a tad too blithe to me, for one (although he is right in pointing out that we can probably find new and more efficient ways to extract resources from less-desirable sources, should we have to) and he doesn't address that there might be other considerations as to whether we use the ones we have. For example, I'm originally from Michigan.  The Great Lakes represent a rich and varied ecosystem, as well as a tremendous tourist resource and state symbol, and I think I speak for most Michiganders when I say that I would not like to see the Great Lakes drained to provide drinking and irrigation water.  Not that Lomborg suggests this, understand, but this is an example of one of the problems with access to this type of resource that he doesn't really discuss.  I would also like to have seen more of an examination of the ways in which various types of environmental effects might \\"stack\\" with each other--for example (not increased population, since the \\"population bomb\\" has apparently fizzled--another example of the difficulties of long-term forecasting) but water usage with land usage, for instance. From a literary/historical standpoint, I think he could have tied the popularity of the \\"Litany\\" and \\"sky-is-falling\\" scenarios into a long tradition in Western thought of viewing the world as in a state of decline and degeneration (for example the ancient Greeks with their ideals of the Golden Age down through to the Iron Age, and medieval Christianity viewing the world as having degenerated from the days of Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden--primarily as a punishment for human sinfulness.  Hmmm.  But that's more of a literary criticism.) His deconstruction of the tone of press releases and of some of the motives behind environmental claims was interesting and on-target, and I would have liked to see more.  And I certainly intend to do some snooping through the sources he provides, primarily to check for context, especially of some of the quotes he pulls out.  But the fact that he provides these sources at all is a huge mark in his favor, as is his cool-eyed appraisal of a very heated subject.the \\"population bomb\\" has apparently fizzled--another example of the difficulties of long-term forecasting) but water usage with land usage, for instance. From a literary/historical standpoint, I think he could have tied the popularity of the \\"Litany\\" and \\"sky-is-falling\\" scenarios into a long tradition in Western thought of viewing the world as in a state of decline and degeneration (for example the ancient Greeks with their ideals of the Golden Age down through to the Iron Age, and medieval Christianity viewing the world as having degenerated from the days of Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden--primarily as a punishment for human sinfulness.  Hmmm.  But that's more of a literary criticism.) His deconstruction of the tone of press releases and of some of the motives behind environmental claims was interesting and on-target, and I would have liked to see more.  And I certainly intend to do some snooping through the sources he provides, primarily to check for context, especially of some of the quotes he pulls out.  But the fact that he provides these sources at all is a huge mark in his favor, as is his cool-eyed appraisal of a very heated subject.	2004-10-10
US	35480195	R3RDQTXOMUZ7HT	0812966767	556311516	The Starter Marriage and the Future of Matrimony	Books	3	11	14	N	Y	Buy it mostly for the anecdotes.	Paul has done extensive interviews with more than sixty individuals who have had what she terms \\"starter marriages\\"--marriages that end soon, within five years, and are without children.  She sprinkles anecdotes from these interviews liberally throughout her book, and they are touching, poignant, and informative.  Unfortunately the rest of her book doesn't live up to the anecdotes. <br /> <br />Paul cobbles together facts and figures from a variety of sources without an in-depth exploration of what these facts and figures might mean.  She also often resorts to unsupported or dubiously supported assertions--for example, at one point she backs up an assertion that modern generations are increasingly impatient and unable to deal with change with the \\"factoid\\" that most people will not wait more than eight seconds for a web-page to load before going elsewhere.  I found this a somewhat less than convincing support for her argument. <br /> <br />Some have complained that Paul caricatures the pro-marriage movement, which I feel is an accurate criticism of her book, and she is also often inconsistent.  For example, she asserts that pre-divorce counseling programs will not stop divorce because her informants essentially felt that their marriage was all over but the paperwork from the time they decided on divorce, but elsewhere acknowledges that many of her informants, in retrospect, felt that their marriage could have been saved if they had worked harder at it, had more understanding of themselves and of marriage, or if they had had a more mature and realistic idea of what to expect from a relationship.  This suggests that good marriage counselling might have been able to save some of these starter marriages; after all, even Paul acknowledges that even the best relationships can go through periods where the partners are profoundly disillusioned with each other and the relationship and may be ready to call it quits.  If a couple is *really* bent on divorce, a few counsellingsessions aren't going to stop them, but for couples who are less sure, counselling sessions or even a waiting period might provide them with the ability to work through their problems and perhaps even emerge with a stronger relationship. <br /> <br />In summary, while this book has some good anecdotes, and offers some food for thought for anyone who is contemplating marriage, it is also oddly shallow, and often inconsistent and contradictory.  Of course, shallow as it is, it is still better than many books in the field (a sad commentary on the state of the field!) and as such, may be worth reading.  Just don't take it too seriously.	2004-10-08
US	35480195	R2POPAWRVZZ6IJ	0689853157	562285740	The Witch's Sister (W.I.T.C.H. (Paperback))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of my favorite childhood memories	This book and its two sequels were some of my favorite books when I was a kid, although the third one--THE WITCH HERSELF--was not as good as the first two.  This is a convincingly creepy book, and what makes it especially good is that the author is very careful not to show anything that definitely proves that Judith and Mrs. Tuggle can do magic, thus leaving the question open as to whether Lynn and Mouse are imagining things.  The friendship between Lynn and Mouse is well-drawn, and the author does a good job of integrating the supernatural plot in with everyday happenings of Lynn and Mouse's life.	2004-10-08
US	35480195	ROUITV4AMDYSW	0670892750	246948554	American Dream: Three Women, Ten Kids, and a Nation's Drive to End Welfare	Books	5	21	26	N	Y	Thorough, well-researched, and thoughtful	Jason de Parle has constructed here an in-depth look at social policy and its effect on the lives of the urban poor during the late '90s and '00s.  Thorough, thoughtful, well-researched, and not beholden to any ideological position, de Parle has examined all aspects of welfare and policy, including situating it in its historical context.  His insights will both please and offend those of both liberal and conservative bents, which is a good sign that he's doing something right, and as he demonstrates how policy decisions set at the top do--and don't--impact those actually living them, the reader comes to know and feel for his informants.  This is a good starting place for those interested in learning about social policy and welfare reform.	2004-09-22
US	35480195	R2X6P1NRPOL2HN	0451529014	388348265	The Black Jewels: Trilogy: Daughter of the Blood / Heir to the Shadows / Queen of the Darkness	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Good ideas, but I found it oddly shallow	Sigh....I have mixed feelings about this series.  Anne Bishop has many good ideas here, including a truly original magic system (with the Jewels and the Blood).  She has constructed many varied and interesting races, and has created a unique villain and method of threat.  The idea that Dorothea and her Hayllians, as members of a race with millenia-long lifespans, are able to prepare the territories of the shorter-lived races for conquest by means of a \\"subtle cultural poisoning\\" that unfolds so slowly--over the course of centuries--that the shorter-lived races can't see what is happening until it's too late--is one that I found intensely interesting and convincing.  The idea of the Abyss as the source of all power and life--and as such, the members of Bishop's land venerate Mother Night and the Darkness--was also intriguing, as was the idea that some of her intelligent animals could also be Blood.  I found the character of Daemon Sadi, who has been waiting centuries for his prophesied lover, to be one of the most fascinating in the series.  Like I said, this trilogy was chock-full of good ideas. <br /> <br />And yet...and yet...and yet...I felt that in the end, this trilogy ultimately failed to live up to its potential.  For all the interesting trappings, this trilogy was essentially a Mary Sue adventure wrapped in a pretty cover.  Her characters, even Sadi, all felt somehow not quite three-dimensional.  I was unable to distinguish many members of Jaenelle's court from each other.  The various territories also failed to stand out--there was Terreille, and Ebon Askavi, and Kaeleer, and uh....  At times the threats that faced Jaenelle just felt ludicrous and over-the-top--I never really \\"bought\\" the concept of Briarwood, for example--and it felt like characters such as Surreal and Titian and so on should be doing more, being more, than they were.  It was intensely frustrating to me because, as I said previously, Anne Bishop does have *really good* ideas, but I felt that she simply lacked the skills to develop them to their full potential.  Her reach exceeded her grasp. In some ways--and I know I stand alone on this--I preferred THE INVISIBLE RING to this trilogy, precisely because it is less ambitious--she sets her sights on a goal that is more within her abilities, and doing so, succeeds there where I feel she fails here. <br /> <br />I hope she continues writing in this world.  Perhaps as she continues to explore this world and these ideas, and maybe gains more familiarity with it, her writing will gain the depth and substance that I feel it lacks now.  Even if it doesn't, I would still not mind seeing more of it; the books aren't *bad,* just overly ambitious, and ambition is not always a bad thing, even if unrealized.	2004-09-20
US	35480195	R1BOY3DF57AC22	0231129505	301020175	Autobiography of a Geisha	Books	5	57	57	N	Y	A look at a less-explored sort of geisha life	If you've read MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA and GEISHA: A LIFE, by Arthur Golden and Mineko Iwasaki respectively, then your image of geisha is probably one of a world of glamor--high-status, highly-trained women existing in a world of glitter and flash, dealing with celebrities, scientists, movie stars of the stage and screen, mistresses of their chosen arts, and honored for their talents. <br /> <br />While this may be true of Kyoto geisha, this experience is not representative of all geisha, or even most geisha, as Sayo Masuda's book demonstrates clearly.  Masuda was a hot-springs geisha, sold into servitude at the age of twelve, to a place as different from the glamor centers of Kyoto as it is possible to get.  Though she was trained in shamisen and dance, the sexual aspect of her profession was at least as important as the artistic aspect, and she routinely met with cruelty, poverty and hunger.   <br /> <br />I won't say this book shows what the life of a geisha was \\"really\\" like--Mineko's autobiography demonstrates that the glamor world of Kyoto was a real one.  But it was not the only one, or even the majority one, and for a more comprehensive view of a different kind of geisha, this book here is indispensible.  If Kyoto is all you know of the \\"flower and willow world,\\" I recommend that you pick up Sayo Masuda's work, and expand your horizons.	2004-09-14
US	35480195	R33EEMV2E45D8V	0520204956	618151081	Geisha	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A great starting place.	If you have just read MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA and are interested in learning more about the world of geisha, their history, and culture, then this is a great place to start.  It was written in the seventies, so may be somewhat out of date now, but it is in  many ways the foundational work for much of what has been written on geisha. <br /> <br />Liza Dalby presents a broad and comprehensive look at all aspects of geisha life, and unlike many other works on geisha, also explores the lives and status of geisha *outside* the famed Kyoto geisha districts, including those of geisha in other big cities such as Tokyo, and those of geisha working at less-glamorous places such as at seaside vacation resorts--which sets her apart from most works I have read on geisha, which only focus on Kyoto and sometimes only on Gion.  She explores the historical origins of geisha and presents sometimes surprising facts (such as that, way back when, the profession that eventually developed into the modern geisha was originally all-male), as well as exploring the ways in which geisha differed from yujo, the courtesans of the pleasure quarters. <br /> <br />However, be warned:  this is not a story, not a biography and not a memoir.  Dalby's book is an anthropological work (Dalby herself is an anthropologist, I believe) and is written in what is a popular style for scholarly anthropological literature, interweaving personal experience with information collected from interviews with her subjects with historical references and references to other such literature.  From some of the reviews, it seems that some have found this style off-putting, which is fair enough.  Despite this, her book is never dry and dull, nor boring, and is filled with much information which is essential to anyone wanting to begin learning more about geisha.	2004-09-14
US	35480195	R1AX9DX3GERO0	1400047927	518459578	Queen Bees and Wannabes: Helping Your Daughter Survive Cliques, Gossip, Boyfriends, and Other Realities of Adolescence	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Well-researched and informative	I bought this book because I am interested in teenage girl society.  I was expecting another book like REVIVING OPHELIA, where I thought the author based way too much of her theories on anecdotal evidence, and was very surprised and impressed by what I got instead.   <br /> <br />Wiseman deconstructs teen girl society--\\"Girl World\\"--in comprehensive and realistic, down-to-earth fashion, exploring the ways in which media, peer pressure, and parental messages interact, enforce, and reinforce each other.  She delves into the very culturally sensitive topics of race and sexual orientation.  She makes no bones about stating that much of what parents and society attempt to teach girls about the pressures of drugs, sex, and alcohol that they face is really intended to make parents feel better about themselves and not about giving their children the tools they need to make wise and informed choices about how best to protect themselves and set boundaries that are true to what they want as individuals, rather than going along with the group.  She also provides a list of references several pages long for further reading. <br /> <br />She also doesn't just look at girls.  She examines cultural pressures on boys too, and the ways in which boys are also forced to conform to cultural stereotypes (in fact, these were some of the chapters of the book that I found most interesting), and deals with the ways in which \\"Girl World\\" and \\"Boy World\\" fit together in the cauldron of modern culture. <br /> <br />Wiseman's straight-ahead approach to issues is refreshing and honest; she is realistic about the limits of parental authority, and points out that overprotecting your daughter will work right up until the point where she is eighteen years old, and tossed out into society to deal with these issues now on her own.  The only thing I wish she'd done differently is spend a little more time talking to and dealing with girls who don't belong to cliques, through a combination of outcastness and choice--she was very upfront about pointing out that not belonging to cliques, while it can be very painful at the time, can enable a girl to come through adolescence with a greater sense of self-worth than girls who feel they have to suck up to the Queen Bees.  Overall, however, I was quite impressed and feel that this is a very good look at teenage girl society.	2004-08-29
US	35480195	R31SO8IGGMEO3M	0743444299	477664928	Geisha, A Life	Books	4	193	202	N	N	Interesting, but somewhat incomplete	I first got interested in geisha reading Arthur Golden's MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, then decided to go hunting for more information on geisha to see how accurate his account was.  I started with Liza Dalby's GEISHA, and then came to read this.    Mineko delivers an absorbing account of her life and training as a very top geisha in Gion, the most exclusive of Kyoto's geisha districts.  For those who are comparing her tale to Golden's, keep in mind that Golden is writing fiction, in fact, almost fairy-tale-esque fiction (complete with wicked stepsister, wicked stepmother, fairy god-mother, handsome prince, etc.)  Mineko's tale is true, and archly told; Mineko herself comes across as a very strong, in some places almost domineering personality, as one would expect given her position in the family she was adopted into and her family's high-status position in Gion.  The strength of her personality makes reading this book a wonderful pleasure.    However, Mineko's position within the geisha hierarchy was very atypical.  She was at the very top of the heap, with all sorts of perks and privileges due to her station that many other geisha did not have (atotori so everyone respects her from day one; she gets personal access to the Big Mistress, tremendous financial and professional support in launching her career from her very-high-status okiya etc.), and it's not clear in the book that she understood this at the time, or indeed understands this now.  For example, when talking about sexual matters (such as mizuage and whether a geisha's patron was entitled to sexual favors--Dalby and Golden say yes, Mineko says no), Mineko talks about her earnings, which were at the time she was working somewhere on the order of hundreds of thousands of yen a night in goshugi alone, and says something to the effect of \\"This is another reason why the idea of geisha selling sexual favors is so ridiculous.  Given that geisha earn so much just by performing, why would they?\\"  Well....most geisha, especially those who didn't have access to Mineko's advantages, probably *didn't* earn that much.  Not that they necessarily sold sexual favors, you understand, it's just that Mineko doesn't seem to realize that her earning status was quite extraordinary and that there were probably a *great* many geisha who were a lot less fortunate.    (It may be worth pointing out here that Liza Dalby worked in Pontocho, a slightly-lower-status geisha district of Kyoto than Gion, where Mineko was located.  Of course, Dalby also suggests that a great amount of the \\"sex\\" aspect of the concept of geisha may have come from the conflation of many different types of geisha and female entertainers.)    All in all, this is an entertaining book, well-written and highly readable, by turns sad and funny, as well as a great look inside the world of very-high-status geisha.  In a way, this book is a tragedy as well, as by the end of it Mineko gives up her career and closes the okiya that had been entrusted to her by her adoptive family (an act that would have made Mineko look a lot less sympathetic if we hadn't seen just how hard she had been pushed as a child, even though her family cared for her.)  Those reading it for information, however, should keep in mind that Mineko's account of geisha life is, while wonderfully detailed, also quite narrow in scope and that it may not be representative of all or even most geisha.  For a look at a very different kind of geisha experience, I suggest AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A GEISHA, by Sayo Masuda, who was a hot-springs geisha around 1940 or so.	2004-08-22
US	35480195	R2A3AH0JVFL8RU	0345392825	731711467	Reviving Ophelia: Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	2	23	28	N	N	While some of this may be helpful....	Pipher fails to realize that her data are inherently skewed.  She is basing her argument on the girls she sees in her practice, and there is a really obvious bias here:  Girls who come to a psychiatrist for help are a self-selected sample of girls who are there BECAUSE they are having problems.  The majority of girls, who make the adjustment to adolescence just fine and with minimal problems, don't need psychological help and so she never sees them. <br /> <br />She seems to have a very negative opinion of young females, in particular.  Frankly, I never felt the media pressure that she claims is so relentless as an adolescent, and in fact, I don't know a single one of my friends who did.  Of course, girls and women like us aren't represented in her sample, since we did not have severe problems that required psychological treatment.  In fact, my friends and I used to mock media images of women as sex objects, rather than feeling we had to conform to them.  While I agree that the media presents troubling images of women, I am dubious about Pipher's assertion that disturbing images of females is a totally unprecedented thing; just look at various Biblical teachings on the role of women throughout the centuries (and frankly, religion has an aura of authority that Madison Avenue does not).  I also find Pipher's assertion (essentially that girls don't know any better than to do as the TV tells them to) rather offensive.  <br /> <br />Far too much of Pipher's argument seems to rest on the premise that \\"I had an idyllic childhood in the sixties, so therefore *everyone* had an idyllic childhood,\\" and \\"The girls I see in my practice are having problems, so this means *all* teenage girls are having problems.\\"   Again, no matter how many girls she is seeing in her practice that are having problems, her patients do not constitute a representative sample of the population.  The fact of the matter is, most teenage girls are not sufficiently troubled to seek psychiatric help duringadolescence; most teenage girls transition through to adulthood just fine without any outside help, and Pipher's book doesn't acknowledge that. <br /> <br />Which isn't to say that if you are the parent of a troubled teenage girl, this book would not be helpful; it might, and some people reviewing it are clearly finding it so.  However,  I take exception to Pipher's broad-brush generalizing and her use of anecdotal evidence to paint a picture of society as a whole. <br /> <br />(I also find interesting the plethora of bad reviews for this book claiming \\"Pipher's a feminist!\\" as if that one fact alone, whether true or not, *completely* invalidates her argument.  \\"Oh.  She's a feminist.  'Nough said.\\"  Name-calling might work on the playground--though I personally don't find \\"feminist\\" that dirty a name to be called--but generally mature and reasonable people attempt to deconstruct an argument on its *merits,* not on attributed qualities of the person putting it forth.  Trust me, if you don't like the book, there's enough here to criticize without having to engage in ad-hominem attacks.)	2004-08-15
US	35480195	RT5DI7O5NNSGJ	0715629409	746436741	Prophets, Cults and Madness	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Interesting ideas, but shallow in some places	I really wish there was a half-star rating on Amazon.com, because this is really more like two-and-a-half stars.  Stevens's idea of prophets and messianic figures springing from the same root cause as schizophrenia and serving an evolutionary function in causing group fission is interesting (and may receive incidental support from Jane Goodall's work with the chimps at Gombe, who fissioned and essentially went to war with one another, resulting in the destruction of the smaller group by the larger).  However, he is way too wedded to his biological paradigm and doesn't seem to understand the flaws in such an approach--one of the main problems with evolutionary psychology is that it works from a post-hoc ergo propter-hoc format, e.g. \\"We see this is serving this function so therefore it must have evolved to serve this function.\\"   <br /> <br />Stevens also displays only a superficial understanding of the ethnographic examples he picks out to illustrate his ideas, in particular those of Handsome Lake and other Native American examples, and to top it all off, his analysis of gender leaves a great deal to be desired.  He states on page 122, \\"Males are orientated toward political issues of group leadership and group allegiances whereas females are primarily committed to motherhood and childrearing,\\" and goes on to assert that this distinction is found in all cultures except our own of the last twenty years.  The assertion that females are concerned primarily with house and home and not with political matters is patently false, and arises from a profound historical male bias in ethnographical fieldwork, as anthropologists anywhere will tell you; the world over, females practice power strategies as assiduously as males do, but tend to employ more subtle strategies as spreading rumors about opponents, attempting to manipulate others into doing their bidding, and so on.  Here is where a greater understanding of his data might have come in handy, as well as an understanding ofthe conditions under which some of these ethnographic examples were collected.	2004-08-12
US	35480195	R3L3J14QBNZWMH	0892813113	480589330	Combatting Cult Mind Control: The #1 Best-selling Guide to Protection, Rescue, and Recovery from Destructive Cults	Books	5	133	141	N	N	A thoughtful and thorough look at mind-control techniques	First of all, in response to those reviewers who argue that &quot;all religions practice mind control&quot; and &quot;Hassan is against freedom of religion,&quot; I would like to point out that Hassan states very plainly that just because a group is not mainstream does not make it a cult. He provides very detailed, specific criteria as to what makes a cult (including deception, attempts to isolate people from their friends and family, refusal to let members leave, and pronounced control of information), and also includes a handy checklist of questions to ask potential cult recruiters, including &quot;Does your group practice deception?&quot; &quot;Is your group considered controversial and if so, why?&quot; and &quot;Tell me three things you don't like about your group and your leader.&quot; As Hassan states, legitimate organizations will be honest about their motives, and members of legitimate organizations should be able to discuss their group's failings as well as its strengths. Hassan is not out to demonize religion in general, nor (as he states) are all cults necessarily religious in nature. <br />  <br /> Hassan provides an excellent breakdown of the dynamics of cults, beginning with his own experience being recruited by the Moonies. Dissatisfied with his own experience of being &quot;kidnapped&quot; and deprogrammed (though he readily concedes that it was, overall, a beneficial experience), he has developed a less-drastic approach to counseling members out of cults, based around attempts to reactivate the original personality underneath the cult one (his own mention of how the sight of his father's tears provided the first step on his road to leaving the Moonies is touching and convincing). As previously mentioned, he offers warning signs that a group might be cultish, provides detailed, common-sense advice for how to deal with family members who might have been indoctrinated, and offers advice for former cult members who are attempting to readjust to life innormal society. <br />  <br /> While Hassan mentions that not all cults are religious in nature, he spends most of his time dealing with religious ones, except for brief mentions of psychotherapeutic cults. I was a little disappointed by this, since I found the notion of non-religious cults fascinating and would have liked to see more of an exploration of the differences, if any, between religious and non-religious cults. This is an area I wish he had explored in more depth. Hassan's discussions of Satanic cults, while brief, also clearly date the book to the late '80s/early '90s, during which the &quot;Satanic Panic&quot; was at its height. <br />  <br /> Overall, however, this is an excellent introduction to the phenomenon of cults and mind control, and I would recommend this to anyone interested in the subject, for whatever reason.	2004-08-01
US	35480195	R1M63OHTF68OY8	0765303418	22262087	Catspaw	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Works great as a stand-alone.	This was the first book I'd read in this series, many years ago.  At the time, I was more impressed with it than I probably would be now, because I didn't recognize that the world she was building was somewhat standard cyberpunk (never even heard of cyberpunk at that time).  Therefore the world seemed more original to me than it actually is (also illustrating one of my standard ideas about genre fiction--if someone who has never experienced a genre before suddenly comes to it, the most hoary and ancient cliches of that genre will seem dazzlingly fresh and familiar). <br />However, though the world fascinated me, in the end, the real heart of the series are Vinge's characters.  Cat, Lady Elnear, Argentyne, Jiro, are all wonderfully drawn, and Vinge portrays them with a great deal of heart and honesty; she plays fair with the reader.  Good social commentary too, with a message that is both uplifting and sobering; she explores a theme I've seen other authors do as well but one that I think is quite profound, that human connections are necessary to allow human beings to succeed in the face of evil (Cat's bond with Argentyne and his link to Mikah are what enable him to ultimately succeed in his goal).  I recently bought a copy of PSION and I'm working my way through it, eager to meet Jewel and some of Cat's earlier friends.	2004-07-20
US	35480195	R225ZKQ4I8REVM	0380979020	547078013	Paladin of Souls: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A great follow-up!	Sigh...It's so *nice* to finally come across some decent single fantasy books, in these days when so many authors seem to be writing the Series that Does Not End.  While set in the same world, this book is *not* in the strict sense a sequel to CURSE OF CHALION; it is a stand-alone work.  <br />Bujold here expands and deepens her world, as well as expanding the theology of her Five Gods in a creative and interesting way.  Like in the previous book, Bujold's characterization is fully-integrated and developed--it's so nice also to see a fantasy writer who is not concentrating on children or adolescents; Ista is a middle-aged woman, who has already experienced tragedy and loss, and in a way this book is a story of her healing as much as CURSE OF CHALION was of Cazaril's.  Liss is wonderful and I would love to see more of her, as well as Ferda and Foix.  Even the young and seemingly frivolous Lady Cattilara demonstrates unexpected depths, as she is shown to be hanging onto her dead husband solely by force of will.  Keep up the good work, Bujold, I would not at all mind seeing another book written in this world.	2004-07-18
US	35480195	RAZZPE3QZINW3	0440412005	619392605	Changeling	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An excellent book, for girls and women of all ages	I can't remember when I first read this book, but it was one of the few non-fantasy books I really loved as a girl.  Martha and Ivy are drawn with a great deal of feeling, each outcasts in their own way (I identified with shy Martha, and years later was lucky enough to have an unconventional friend somewhat like Ivy).  With strong messages about being oneself and not giving in to peer pressure, I feel this book can help give young girls the courage to be different at a very difficult age.  I can't believe that it's out of print.  Thank god I saved my copy.	2004-07-18
US	35480195	R1FBGY5DPQP3G1	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A good old-fashioned ghost story	Stephen King proves he can still scare the socks off you with this one.  I bought this one afternoon and was up till twelve midnight reading it.  Then I stayed up till two because I was afraid to go to sleep afterwards.  But there's much more here than just scares.  <br />All good ghost stories have a mystery at the heart of them, and this one is no different.  The revelation of what happened to the turn-of-the-century singing group Sara Tidwell and the Red Tops, woven in with the supernatural manifestations Mike Noonan is experiencing in his present-day cabin of Sara Laughs (named after the aforementioned singer), coupled with King's textured exploration of small-town life, are what give this book substance and make it more than just a superficial slasher fic.  <br />King revisits many of his favorite themes, such as themes of insiders vs. outsiders in community life, the way a community's buried past reaches out to affect its present, and the idea that loving connections between human beings are necessary to stand in the face of evil.  Interwoven with subthemes on sexism, racism, power, and social inequality, this is far from a melodramatic, soulless Hollywood-esque production and is instead a book with interesting commentary, richness, and some real heart (as well as  being scary as all get out).  I wish more authors were capable of writing with this kind of detailed, balanced richness.	2004-07-15
US	35480195	R11X45CD7RAT4R	0345333926	120812203	Ringworld (A Del Rey book)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	A classic example of "high-concept" science fiction	The great thing about Ringworld is--you guessed it--the ringworld.  The concepts of a world that is a ring, the huge size of said world, and the problems such a world might have are interesting and creative concepts, worthy of science fiction at its best.  Too bad the characters are all one-dimensional and shallow.  Louis Wu is a non-entity.  Teela is unbelievable and the concept behind her (her hereditary luck) falls apart when you consider the fact that, even if luck *were* hereditary in some capacity, there's no reason to assume that she would be lucky in anything but reproduction (thus the whole premise of her luck being godlike and all-powerful immediately falls apart).  Speaker-to-Animals is not an integrated character; he demonstrates ferocity and reasonableness by turns when the plot demands him to, not as developed character traits.  The puppeteer Nessus is perhaps the most interesting character and I would have liked to see more of the puppeteers.  This book was also clearly written pre-feminism (notice Teela's instant and unquestioning acceptance of a life of female slavery with the Seeker, the fact that Teela's reason for inclusion is solely because she is lucky, not that she has a useful skill to offer; that Teela follows because she loves Louis, not out of curiosity or interest; the fact that the Kzin and the puppeteers are species with non-sentient females; Prillar as ship's (...); comments such as \\"Every woman is born with a tasp,\\" and so on.)  There are some interesting ideas here, and some cool concepts to play with, but it would be nice, just once, to run across a hard-core science fiction book that did as good a job developing the characters as the science.	2004-06-13
US	35480195	R3MKHFFR6P60C5	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Like a fine wine, Stephen King has mellowed with age	FROM A BUICK 8 is a story typical of Stephen King's later work.  In the theme of GERALD'S GAME, DOLORIS CLAIBORNE, BAG OF BONES and ROSE MADDER, Stephen King here is less interested in scaring you or in dealing with huge epic themes, as he has previously done in IT and THE STAND, and more interested in detailing the human relationships and the mundane events of everyday life.  Here, he continues exploring previously-established themes of the way in which human beings deal with the unknown and the unknowable, and how people can continue to exist side-by-side with the supernatural.  While not told on as large a scale as his earlier work, this book reveals a more mature King; it is a layered narrative with more subtle complexity to it than meets the eye on first glance.<br />One of the pleasures of reading Stephen King's large body of work is watching how he has changed and grown as an author over time.  While not as flashy as some of his earlier work, this is a more accomplished novel in which King displays a quiet mastery of his craft as well as a maturity and control that could only come with age.	2004-05-31
US	35480195	RERWLNIBJA8JX	0380818604	84144543	The Curse of Chalion	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Excellent	I got this book yesterday; finished it today.  I couldn't put it down.  It's a truly excellent fantasy story, complete in one book, and a welcome change from the tired epic fantasy format that so often turns out to be a variant on the Series that Does Not End.  Unlike writers such as Martin or Jordan, Bujold constructs characters that feel like actual people instead of artificial bundles of traits stapled together for dramatic effect--for those Martin fans out there, for example, Iselle is what the character of Sansa should be and probably actually would be in real life, as opposed to the way Martin is portraying her: someone who has known from birth what her fate and marriage will be like and who has been trained to occupy the political role she will someday fill.  Bujold's characters feel *four*-dimensional, they're so well rounded; Cazaril, the Provincara, Lady Ista, Teidez, Iselle and Betriz all feel like actual people.  Michelle West is the only fantasy author I've seen come close to her skill in characterization.  Bujold's world-building is excellent too; I could actually see the Provincara's household in my mind, and the way she slowly reveals Cazaril's history over the course of the book is extremely effective.  Her cosmology is interesting and used to full effect to reinforce her narrative.  I plan to get Paladin of Souls as soon as possible	2004-05-28
US	35480195	RRH9MWS6VGNX3	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	5	9	18	N	N	Unmatched.	Better than Tolkien.  Better than Jordan.  Kicks Martin's mediocre melodramatic sensationalistic *** up and down stairs.  It's a sin to mention Goodkind in the same *breath* as this. I have NEVER come across a book series better than this and the second trilogy at exploring fundamental truths about the human condition, which is the mission of great literature.<br />Extremely allegorical and symbolic.  Donaldson deals with profound philosophical questions about the nature of guilt and innocence, sinfulness and redemption, hope and despair, as well as the very meaning of life itself (the entire first trilogy can be seen as an exploration of the question, &quot;What is the answer to death?&quot;) This is the fantasy genre at its best, drawing on the ability of fantasy to create fundamentally new worlds and characters to express things more clearly than could be done in a &quot;realistic&quot; genre.  Just about every person  and thing that Covenant meets in this and the second trilogy has symbolic meaning, to such an extent that sometimes the symbolic content drives the action.<br />Okay, it's not for everyone.  It's not for people looking for a straight-ahead sword-and-sorcery hack'n'slash series.  If you only read on one level, you will not appreciate this series.  If you are prepared to deal with symbolic, allegorical, and philosophical content, pick it up.<br />I can truly say I have never picked up a book series that has touched me this deeply or had this profound an effect on me.  Read it, with patience, strength, and contemplation.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-05-06
US	35480195	R19J14IAO71JII	0756401704	707209194	6: The Sun Sword	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	While not without flaws, a satisfying conclusion	This book is a satisfying conclusion to the Sun Sword series as it has been developed so far.  Okay, there are some indications of fatigue on the author's part--West's prose style, while it can be dramatic and moving (check out the last scene with Diora at the end of Broken Crown) is often torturous and convoluted, and it wears a little thin by this point in the series.  Also, some have complained that the battle between the forces of the North and the South seemed strangely anti-climactic, and I can see their point.<br />*However.*<br />The author's *strengths* in this part of the series are completely on display as well.  I believe I've mentioned in other reviews of her work that Michelle West has a real gift for characterization.  This is *certainly* the case here.  Her characters are so well developed that they feel almost *four*-dimensional.  Her themes of childhood and parenthood continue to be present in the work; in particular I was rocked by the line about Kiriel, something like: <br />&quot;Ashaf was the mother of her heart.<br />But she had always had two.&quot;<br />Without giving away spoilers I'll just say that for me, this line made a moment that could have come across as completely contrived and out of nowhere, not only suddenly make sense, but also carry significant emotional weight.  <br />Some have complained also because they feel the story was not finished, in particular that of Jewel and Avandar.  I actually found that to be a *strength* of the series, as strange as it may sound.  Perhaps it's because I came in not having read Hunter's Oath and Hunter's Death, so I wasn't getting the whole of Jewel's story to begin with, but it seemed to me that this ability to &quot;let plot threads go&quot; actually contributed to the feel of the series as a whole.  I mean, heck, it was always clear that the main story of these books was that of Diora, Sendari, Teresa and Valedan; Jewel may have had a part to play, but this wasn't her story, and now that she's finished with that, having gone &quot;south if south calls,&quot; it's time for her to go back to the cares of the rest of her life.  Just like in the real world, there are no endings, because nothing ever really ends.  <br />The interplay of the two different cultures, South and North, both fully developed and contrasted with each other, is on display here as well, and Valedan's ability to draw on the strengths of both is fully realized.  The meeting of Diora and Valedan and their slowly developing relationship is portrayed as only West could have done it, and Anya and Kiriel, Kiriel and Isladar, Kiriel and Ashaf's village, Elena and Telakar--wow.  <br />The only thing I can think of that would have made it better would have been if she had found a way to work the cradle song into the conclusion.  While that is the only song in the series, in my opinion it represents the best use of poetry in a fantasy series since Tolkien, in that it encapsulates what I see as one of the primary themes of the entire series.  Having begun more or less with the cradle song in the first hundred or so pages of the Broken Crown (and thus set the tone), I would have liked to see it show up at the conclusion as well to sort of &quot;close the circle.&quot;  But that's only a minor flaw.  Particularly when so many fantasy authors seem to be writing &quot;the series that does not end,&quot; West is able, all things considered, to pull off her final book superbly.  All in all, I found this to be an excellent conclusion to an excellent series.  If she writes a future series dealing with Jewel and her den (as some have commented she plans to do) I will certainly buy it and read it as well.  Well done, Ms. West.  Well done.	2004-03-30
US	35480195	R29SBYLHPFPMO	055357342X	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	3	7	24	N	N	Hellooooo, Jordan syndrome.....	Martin writes well enough, but I am afraid he has come down with Jordan syndrome.  (...) The overtones of sexism are still there, whether intentional or not; and few of his characters make any progress or growth.  In particular, the way he treats Sansa seriously irritates me; I actually have to wonder if she's a stand-in for someone he doesn't like.  It's not the fact that he keeps putting her in dangerous situations; it's the fact that he refuses to allow her to learn to defend herself.  Daenerys still hasn't made it back to the Seven Kingdoms yet, and in fact shows no sign of doing so any time soon; Tyrion has taken off for parts unknown; Cersei remains as one-dimensional a [character] as she ever was, and so does Lysa until they off her. (...)<br />The darkness and slaughter of the main characters didn't really bother me, but someone on here had a good point that I hadn't considered until I read their review.  And that is:  If this is truly supposed to be a world based on the Middle Ages, then where is the yearning for spiritual fulfillment?  Where is the divine?    Christianity was a *huge* presence in the Middle Ages, for *everybody,* but we don't see anything like that in Martin's world; in fact his Seven are barely mentioned and certainly don't seem to be taken that seriously by anybody in his world.  He's essentially writing this series with a modern-day secular mentality, but this doesn't jive with his series construction.(...)	2004-03-21
US	35480195	R28UMYT7KF481L	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A good starting place	I'm just starting to get interested in World War I history and I found this book to be an excellent introduction to the Battle of Verdun.  Horne does a good job showing the political intrigues by the generals at the top and how they were utterly out of touch with the experiences of the soldiers in the field, and of the reduction to meaninglessness of the courage of the individual, when faced with an artillery barrage.  Reading it one comes away with a sense of the appalling waste and uselessness of it all.  Others have complained that he focuses too much on the French side of things to the detriment of the Germans, and this may be true, but still, this is a good place to start.	2004-02-07
US	35480195	RQZNYY0BJXKCR	0312852150	837097106	Camelot 30K	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting	A truly interesting concept and story arc; some people have criticized it for the fact that there's so little plot, but as an anthropologist I found the cultural study to be quite cool.  On the down side, the characters *are* rather two dimensional, as others have noted, and in fact the appendices to the book give the whole plot twist away. I didn't look at them until after I had finished the book, but even so, I kind of had an idea where it was going.<br />But I still liked Merlene.	2004-02-03
US	35480195	RI0O39CUN3SMN	0300093071	775890212	Passchendaele: The Untold Story, Second edition	Books	3	11	14	N	Y	While full of good information.....	...I found this book to be rather dry and difficult to get into.  Of course I was looking for something a little more basic.  This book might be best for someone who already has some knowledge of the battle and wants to expand on it, rather than as an introduction.	2004-01-24
US	35480195	R3QF831P1LHZ2H	0553575635	333696092	Ship of Magic (The Liveship Traders, Book 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very impressive and impressively different	Ship of Magic and the Liveship Trader series are one of the most innovative fantasy series I have read in a long time.  Robin Hobb's choice of a maritime setting for her work (a setting that feels vaguely like the Caribbean, with an immigrant-type history) is very unusual and extremely well-rendered.  She obviously knows a lot about ships and shipboard life and renders the day to day minutiae of life on board a sailing ship extremely well.  She also does a good job of portraying the Bingtown society as a society in flux, with a clash and struggle between the old-time, established residents and the newcomers who are unfamiliar with the old ways of doing things.  Her depiction of the Vestrit family's struggles at home to make ends meet is very well-rendered and believable, and I was struck by the realism and thought put into her society (one example might be the fact that a lot of the old families are having problems making ends meet, caused by cheap Chalcedonian grain produced with slave labor being dumped on the market--an unusually realistic problem and explanation).  Her characterization feels excellent too--watching the Vestrit family essentially hit the wall in the first hundred or so pages, the people feel like real characters, and one is forced to admit that really, things couldn't have been done much differently, given the character make-up of the people involved.  The liveships are a great concept, and Paragon, the mad ship, is one of the most interesting characters in the whole series; his history is unexpectedly pitiable and touching.  Some people have considered this similar to Anne McCaffery's brain/brawn ships (The Ship who Sang, etc.) and while I guess I can see the resemblance, for some reason they didn't seem at all similar to me; perhaps it's just because her liveships seem so heavily to come out of a maritime tradition where sailing ships are regarded as living things, where Anne McCaffery is drawing more from a science fiction milieu involving cybernetics etc.  She does a remarkable job with the character of the pirate captain Kennit as well, I thought, with a character who is totally loathsome and utterly amoral and without any human feeling at all, but who is able to be ascribed these qualities by people around him who wish to see him as a symbol.  While I never liked Kennit, I was very impressed by what she was doing with him.  Wintrow's spiritual strength and strength of conviction were impressively done, and Malta the spoiled daughter is an impressive character also.  I was particularly interested in Malta because I have seen others try to create this type of character and fail to make him/her convincing; however, Malta was convincing.  Obviously her source of power is her knowledge of human relationships and her ability to manipulate people and use diplomacy.  However, unlike some other characters of this type I have seen, there is never any doubt in my mind (and I mean that in a good way) that Malta can manifest such power.  Right from the start she displays herself as extremely good at spotting people's actual motivations and using her knowledge to manipulate them, and while at first she uses her power for evil instead of good, because she doesn't know any better, by the end of the series she has matured and grown into a sympathetic and formidable character. <BR>On the negative side, the series has a few too many plotlines--the plotline with the serpents, for example, was one that I honestly felt I could have done without--and the prose style seemed a little thin at times.  However, for a truly different and interesting story, this is extremely well done.	2004-01-08
US	35480195	R8GYJ3JOIK01O	0345438310	169523236	Nicholas and Alexandra: The Classic Account of the Fall of the Romanov Dynasty	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Excellent and warm, with human feeling	I first read this book many years ago.  Since that time, it has always been a favorite of mine.  Massie does an excellent job of portraying the vast sweep of Russian and world events, and against it, the very intimate and human world of the Tsar and Tsarina; Nicholas and Alexandra come across as kind, decent people who simply are incapable of coping with the events they are handed.  In particular, Massie does an excellent job of showing how the hemophilia of Alexis, added on top of everything else, was the straw that broke the camel's back.  This book is wonderfully written and evocative, and I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone as a starting point to learn about the last Russian tsar.	2003-12-22
US	35480195	RPXRM1BIZCMQJ	0743400135	240738397	West of Eden	Books	4	1	3	N	N	one of the most creative books I've read in a long time.	This book is one of the most creative and imaginative books I've read in a long time.  The world of the Yilane is so well-constructed it feels real and convincing.  The living cities of the Yilane are astoundingly described and constructed.  The Yilane language itself is an act of considerable imagination.  Harrison's prose style is not especially good and his characters, especially his human characters, seem a little flat, but his world makes up for it.	2003-12-06
US	35480195	R2IIY1FWLTDFJ4	0449907198	304365532	The Losers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A rare non-fantasy book from Eddings.	*Strongly* allegorical.  Shows Eddings's usual skill at deft characterization.  Thought-provoking, and also manages to stir emotions--I was in tears at the ending.  Worth a read, even if it isn't fantasy.	2003-10-04
US	35480195	R3V1AZATYI6J4E	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Where was this guy during 2000 and 2002?	This book is both hysterical and infuriating. Hysterical for Al Franken's wit, infuriating because of the truth he tells and that nobody who needs to read this book really will, or will take it seriously.  His dissection of Wellstone's funeral and the circus surrounding it is both touching and frustrating, as is his analysis of the press coverage surrounding the Bush and Gore campaigns in 2000.  It's worth buying the book for those passages alone.  Franken's dissection of Ann Coulter is also great and screamingly funny.<br />I particularly enjoyed the reviewer on this site who stated that *Franken* had brought political discourse in this country to a new low with this book.	2003-09-24
US	35480195	R17SJVVM8FF8AG	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	If you're looking for fun, you've come to the right place	Okay.  I'm not going to sit here and tell you that David Eddings writes deep, weighty fantasy.  He doesn't.  He writes light, breezy fantasy with just enough menace to move the plot along.  (Although there are moments in some of his books--for example, Sparhawk's memory of the bells in the Elenium, or Mara's wailing among the ruins of his dead city, that indicate he is capable of much more; why he's been idling for so long I don't know.)  However, what attracts me to Eddings, and always has, is his ability to make wonderful characters.  Better than any other author I've come across, Eddings can take a few broad strokes of the brush and sketch out remarkably distinct and memorable characterizations; it's a skill that he has employed in every book of his I've read, including The Losers (one of his few non-fantasy books).  He makes you fall in love with his characters--I absolutely adore Polgara, and would love to know her in real life; the same with Sephrenia and Flute in the Elenium.  When added to the sense of fun and adventure he brings to his work, these great characterizations make his books thoroughly enjoyable experiences.  Picking up an Eddings book is like coming home.  So if you've finished reading The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Wheel of Time, Song of Ice and Fire, the Sun Sword or other weighty fantasy and you need something to clear your head, try David Eddings; you won't be sorry.  The fantasy genre is a vast universe, and there's room in it for Epic Quests *and* simple, fun adventure stories.  Eddings belongs here too, guys.	2003-09-17
US	35480195	R27F0MU3J4AWM5	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A classic.	This book is a classic.  I have read other accounts of Arthurian legend, but this book has remained, in my mind, the quintessential archetype and the standard against which all else, be it modern or ancient, must be judged.  Check out her book the Firebrand, in which she tells the Trojan war through the eyes of Kassandra.  It's not as good as this, but still good.	2003-09-01
US	35480195	R16ZK0VFUHJ9G7	0451459245	325405829	The Firebrand	Books	3	5	6	N	N	&quot;Mists&quot;-lite	In this retelling of the Trojan war from Kassandra's point of view, Marion Zimmer Bradley re-explores some of the themes she previously visited in THE MISTS OF AVALON, including an ancient, Goddess-centered and feminine-centered religion that is slowly fading away before a newer, male-oriented religion, as well as a retelling of mythological/historical events from a female viewpoint.  This is not as well done as in Mists, partly because we remain locked in Kassandra's single viewpoint the whole time and therefore lose the breadth and scope that made Mists so memorable, and partly because she did it before so the characters do not seem as original.  However, this is still an interesting and engrossing book, and an interesting and different take on the Trojan war.	2003-09-01
US	35480195	R218QB1G59GXLE	0393322572	212139280	The Feminine Mystique	Books	5	12	17	N	N	A fascinating look at an earlier time	I ran across an English-language copy of this book in Denmark.  Not having many books with me to read at the time I picked it up.  The content of this book is extremely dated, of course--she actually takes Freud seriously in some places--but as a look at the conditions that led to the start of the feminist movement and as an artifact of the time in which it was written it is fascinating--and more applicable than one might think.  As I was reading it, a couple of friends and relatives came to mind who I thought might have benefited immensely from this book.	2003-08-12
US	35480195	R1D68S6ON6P0UU	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	3	12	22	N	N	technically well-executed but ultimately soulless	After having finished the book (after first having thrown it aside in disgust at the way females were portrayed) I feel now like revising some of my earlier comments.<br />My earliest complaints about the book, that no powerful and important female characters existed, proved to be ultimately unfounded.  In particular, Daenerys's journey from victim to khaleesi is well-executed and interesting.  Martin writes with a great deal of technical skill and has an excellent ear for dialogue (I seem to recall reading somewhere that he worked in television for a long time, which is probably why).  His plotting is well-crafted, and the idea of having events be seen and interpreted differently from different angles (one event that springs readily to mind is Eddard Stark's recounting to King Robert about finding Jaime Lannister on the Iron Throne during the sack of Dragonstone) is a good trick that other writers would do well to make use of.  He also has certainly done his research on medieval times and depicts it convincingly.  Some have complained about his depiction of Daenerys's wedding night, as she was only thirteen at the time.  In medieval times, however, marriage at thirteen for girls was not at all unusual--when the average lifespan does not go much past forty, and may be shorter than that for women who had at that time the added risk of dying in childbirth, children grow up fast.  (In Romeo and Juliet, Juliet was only thirteen, and as her father (? can't remember off the top of my head) commented, \\"Younger than she are happy mothers made.\\")<br />HOWEVER (and this is a big however), in spite of his technical skill, in the end I never got the sense that the author gave a damn about his characters.  It was not that he had not put any thought into them, it was more a sense that he just didn't care about them as people, that he saw them as nothing more than puppets to push around at his whim.  Robert Jordan has a similar problem, however with Jordan I feel it's more a function of a plot that has grown out of control; occasionally I do get the sense that he does care.  I never felt that with Martin.  This is not to impugn his skill as a writer; as I said previously he does evince a great deal of technical skill.  However, it did make it hard for me to get into the story, because if the author doesn't even care, then why should I?  (Contrast with Michelle West, who lacks Martin's technical skill in that her prose is often desperately overwritten, yet at the same time obviously cares a great deal about her characters and makes the reader care too--I was in tears at the ending of The Broken Crown.)  His obsession with depictions of death and decay at first seemed a nice piece of scene-setting, but by the end of the book felt more like a gimmick, like something he was throwing in there because he thought it looked cool.  If the book was in the horror genre I might have found it less gimmicky as such things are a convention there (although even in the horror genre, such depictions eventually become tiresome--Stephen King, I'm looking in your direction), but in the fantasy genre I'm less inclined to tolerate it.  Some rather important characters remained undeveloped--Joffrey in particular was such a cartoonish caricature that I almost found him laughable--and to top it all off, despite his inclusion of active female characters, the entire book carried a hard-to-define air of misogyny.  I couldn't quite put my finger on what I found so irritating, but I think it's there.  For example, two of the main female characters, Cersei and Lysa, are walking, talking misogynistic stereotypes--Cersei is the False ... Queen who sleeps with her brother and swears eternal hatred to her husband for no better reason that he called the name of his deceased beloved on their wedding night, and Lysa is the Neurotic Emasculating Mother who still breastfeeds her son at seven years old.  It is possible to write a negative female character and have her not be such astereotype--Delores Umbridge in Order of the Phoenix is one example; Steven Brust also generally does a good job with this--but apparently Martin can't pull it off.  Another factor contributing to this sense of misogyny may be the constant and casual depiction of sexual violence against women and only women--Viserys sexually assaults Daenerys, Lyanna was kidnapped and raped by Rhaegar, the depiction of the khalasar riders sharing the Lamb women, the ultimate fate of Eroeh--Again, I've seen depictions of sexual violence and life in a sexist society that don't come off this way, but somehow here I found the whole effect disturbing.  (David Eddings, oddly enough, I have found, can write a sexist society and even sexist stereotypes of women without teetering into misogyny; perhaps it's because Eddings obviously deeply loves all of his characters, the women no less than the men, whereas as I mentioned before, I felt that Martin just didn't care.  Eddings also tends to write extremely powerful females who command a great deal of respect from all the men around them, such as Polgara; with the possible exception of Daenerys, I didn't see one here.) At the end of this book, Daenerys possesses the most firepower of anyone in his world; it will be interesting to see if Martin lets her keep this firepower in the later books or if he diminishes or takes it away from her because she's a girl (and if he does diminish her power, he will have to do some very, very good writing in order to convince me that he didn't do so because she's a girl, despite whatever chain of events leads to this in the book).a stereotype--Delores Umbridge in Order of the Phoenix is one example; Steven Brust also generally does a good job with this--but apparently Martin can't pull it off.  Another factor contributing to this sense of misogyny may be the constant and casual depiction of sexual violence against women and only women--Viserys sexually assaults Daenerys, Lyanna was kidnapped and raped by Rhaegar, the depiction of the khalasar riders sharing the Lamb women, the ultimate fate of Eroeh--Again, I've seen depictions of sexual violence and life in a sexist society that don't come off this way, but somehow here I found the whole effect disturbing.  (David Eddings, oddly enough, I have found, can write a sexist society and even sexist stereotypes of women without teetering into misogyny; perhaps it's because Eddings obviously deeply loves all of his characters, the women no less than the men, whereas as I mentioned before, I felt that Martin just didn't care.  Eddings also tends to write extremely powerful females who command a great deal of respect from all the men around them, such as Polgara; with the possible exception of Daenerys, I didn't see one here.) At the end of this book, Daenerys possesses the most firepower of anyone in his world; it will be interesting to see if Martin lets her keep this firepower in the later books or if he diminishes or takes it away from her because she's a girl (and if he does diminish her power, he will have to do some very, very good writing in order to convince me that he didn't do so because she's a girl, despite whatever chain of events leads to this in the book).	2003-08-03
US	35480195	R6VAUH21IBMD0	0520227352	141067364	Always Coming Home (California Fiction)	Books	3	28	38	N	N	Too Durkheimian for its own good; problematic as well	I was greatly attached to this book when I first picked it up as a high-school student.  Since then, I've cooled slightly towards it.  Problems include preachiness, a somewhat simplistic attitude toward both modern-day problems and her own created society, and somewhat of a tendency towards condescension to her audience.  At too many points, I felt that her book came off as \\"MODERN SOCIETY = BAD; KESH = GOOD,\\" or occasionally, \\"DAYAO = BAD; KESH = GOOD.\\"  One reviewer somewhere called her Dayao Condor society a \\"strawman patriarchal culture,\\" which I would agree with; leaving everything else aside, I felt that she failed to sufficiently acknowledge the many ways in which women can and do hold real power in such societies.  <br />From an anthropological standpoint, LeGuin falls prey to the tendency to see \\"indigenous\\"--that is to say, non-Western, non-industrialized cultures--as \\"people without history,\\" that is, essentially static and unchanging.  She fails to appreciate that indigenous cultures, too, are cultures that are always in transition; I believe it was Marshall Sahlins who said something to the effect no culture can stay the same without changing.  She furthermore blunders headlong into the Durkheimian pitfall of viewing \\"indigenous\\" cultures as more or less homogenous and unified systems; she fails to take into account the fact that different subsets of people within the same culture may have very different attitudes and experiences of cultural ideas and practices.  One example might be male and female understandings of Kesh ritual and how or whether they differ, particularly since she hints that in Kesh society, men are seen as less welcome in ritual contexts.  This is not an area that I feel she explores in enough depth.<br />Her book also has a bad case of \\"noble savage-itis,\\" and in fact, taking into account the myriad cases in modern society of non-Natives (in particular New Agers) appropriating elements of Native American culture--an appropriation that many Native Americans have called highly offensive--I have to wonder how her book is received by members of the First Nations, since she is clearly drawing on stereotypical tropes about Native Americans here (witness, for example, the use of Coyote as a trickster figure, although her Coyote is female, or her heyimas--hm, large underground ceremonial structures?  Any resemblance to kivas is of course entirely unintentional).<br />However, it is clear that she has put a great deal of thought, time and effort into the construction of her Kesh society--complete with writing system, musical notation, poetry, etc.  Although her appropriation of Native American cultural elements is questionable, if you can overlook this appropriation as well as the book's flaws as an ethnography, you might find an enjoyable read.	2003-06-03
US	35480195	R2TRERD4TZ29NY	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	2	12	20	N	N	Tell me it gets better, please?	I want to like this book. I really do. The writing style is excellent, the descriptions are evocative, etc. I can tell that Martin has truly masterful control over his craft, language. And admittedly, I'm not quite a hundred pages into it, so there's a long way to go. But one of the things that draws me into a book is strong, active female characters, and so far (and admittedly I'm not very far into it) I just ain't seeing any. <BR>So far, the female characters I've met at length include Catelyn Stark (passive, jealous wife), Daenerys (passive, whimpering sexual victim--the scene where her brother asserted that he would prostitute her to the entire khalasar if that was the only way to regain his army made me just about throw the book across the room) and Arya (spoiled brat). Now just because this book is set in a sexist society doesn't bother me; what bothers me is that the women in the book are all only reactive, passive, or victimized (check out Michelle West's Serra Teresa and Diora for examples of strong female characters operating within the confines of a profoundly sexist society). Maybe it gets better. I hope it does. I know I'm not very far into it at all and I should give it more of a chance, but right now I'm really close to giving up on it. I don't want to, because I can tell that this is a good, well-written book, and it is very, very possible that he is going somewhere with these characters, but unless things improve and fast I don't know if I'll have the patience to find out.	2003-05-15
US	35480195	R9ZCCAZCJRQXB	0451456890	614878310	The Witches of Eileanan	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Mildly interesting, somewhat amateurish though	I found this book to be mildly interesting; it held my attention more or less long enough for me to finish it.  The detailed description of witchcraft was good, I thought, and there were some interesting touches like the skeelie woman who held Isabeau captive in her hut, but honestly, I've seen Celtic mythology done so many times before it's just not that new anymore.  I did feel a certain lack of depth to the characters, and there were some amateurish touches--for example, the entire book being written in dialect was, I think, the mark of a new author and I felt the torture scene was somewhat unskillfully handled.  It's good enough light fiction; if I want something more serious, I'll read Stephen R. Donaldson or Michelle West's Sun Sword books (Broken Crown, etc.)	2003-05-13
US	35480195	R2J3DP6ZG85HPW	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	2	6	13	N	N	Ultimately disappointing	I picked up this book looking for a good fantasy story, and I was hoping, because it's a series, that it would hold me for a while.  Unfortunately, I found the first book ultimately unengaging.  The whole thing seemed *extremely* reminiscent of Star Wars--youth character discovers he has magical powers, goes on a quest with a white-clad, spunky female sidekick who supposedly has powers of her own except not, of course, as powerful as those of our hero and who seems to have no other function in the book than to fall in love with the hero and be constantly endangered so that he might save her.  There is a wise old wizard (Ben Kenobi), and some marshes reminiscent of Dagobah.  I think that there was a Han Solo-esque character in there too somewhere and I have vague recollections that either the main bad guy was somehow related to the hero, or else there was something about the boy's father being evil.  I found the book's attitude toward sex and sexuality somewhat disturbing as well; Kahlan is constantly being placed in gratuitous sexual and sexualized jeopardy (the scene where she was naked and covered in snakes being one example), and I know other reviewers have mentioned the S&M-like sequence culminating with the hero killing the woman in a scene that has overt sexual overtones as troublesome.  I will state though that I found the eventual defeat of the villain to be somewhat clever.  It is saved from a one-star rating by the ending and the fact that Goodkind is able to maintain a consistent level of mediocrity in his prose style, as opposed to outright awfulness.	2003-05-13
US	35480195	R2SW6ILV1VTJNY	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	600+ pages of nothing.	Sigh....Anything I could say at this point would really be redundant (much like this book?), except that I'll admit Matrim's courtship of Tuon charmed me and made me laugh, so he gets the second star for that.  Jordan really can't do characterization, can he?  His characters feel like playing pieces he's moving around on a game board.  Anyway, for a *good* fantasy series with convincing, well-drawn characters, one that actually makes progress from book to book instead of going around in circles, both plot-wise and with regards to character growth, check out Michelle West's Sun Sword books (The Broken Crown, The Uncrowned King, The Shining Court, and The Sea of Sorrows.)  Mr. Jordan sir, read and learn.	2003-05-12
US	35480195	R32YYV0162Y5MB	0886778379	497382473	The Shining Court (The Sun Sword, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Satisfying on every level.	Michelle West is truly an excellent writer.  She seems to have excellent control over her material at almost all points in this book.  Many times when writers throw in character-developing events they can seem contrived or extraneous to the plot; however, in Michelle West's hands they are not only appropriate but much anticipated and actually serve to move the plot along.  Sendari's and Teresa's argument truly felt like an ending to their troubled relationship as siblings; Sendari's and Diora's face-off was something I had been looking forward to since the first book and it was *excellently* handled.  Some have complained that they felt that the revelation about Avandar's past was thrown in without reflection; I disagree.  It felt to me like something she had planned from the first.  Jewel's and Avandar's trip through the Stone Deepings was a little drawn-out; however, again, Jewel's confrontation with Duster was very well handled, enough to satisfy while not enough to be indulgent.  I had been looking forward to meeting Duster since the first book also, and I was pleased with meeting her here.  The mystery of the masks was well-handled, and I *really* want to see more of Anya a'Cooper.	2003-05-05
US	35480195	R3U82OCN31YMLG	0886779782	503701264	Sea of Sorrows (The Sun Sword, Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another good one.	Michelle West mentions in the beginning of my copy of this book that she was at fault for the delay of this book.  I would guess, reading it, that it is because she had some trouble writing it.  Certainly the scene where Kiriel and Isladar face off is one that I think she had trouble writing.  It comes across as labored; it goes on far too long, for one thing and has several too many interruptions. However, there is some good character work being done there--the revelation about Isladar and Ashaf, while it had been dealt with to some extent before, is very emotionally powerful and well-done.  Furthermore the friendship between Diora and Margret is well-detailed and convincing.  She continues to evince a great deal of interest in the parent-child relationship (Diora-Sendari, Diora-Teresa, functioning as a surrogate mother; Kiriel-Isladar; Kiriel-Ashaf, Isladar-Anya--her behavior was very child-like in nature; Margret-Evallen, etc. etc.), which is one of the things I find original about her series; it is practically de rigeur for a fantasy series to concentrate on romantic (usually heterosexual) relationships, and parent-child relationships are almost never explored.  Jordan, for example, obviously gives male-female relationships center stage and what few parent-child relationships there are (i.e. Faile and her parents) are extremely minor and almost non-existence. Elayne is now pregnant with Rand's child, but I seriously doubt that her motherhood will be explored in great detail (and Rand's fatherhood not at all).<br />Speaking of Robert Jordan, several people have compared the two authors.  In my opinion there is no comparison.  First of all, her writing style is far better, if at times too ornate.  Second of all, her characters are much more well-developed than Jordan's characters, who somehow never come across as anything more than 2-D cutouts despite the copious amount of time he has had to develop them.  Her female characters in particular are much, much *much*better written than Jordan's, and portrayed with a great deal more respect; I have the feeling that Jordan thinks he portrays female characters very well, but in my opinion he does not.  She treats her characters as characters, not as pieces on a playing board as Jordan often seems to.  Third of all, her narrative still feels vibrant and alive.  Jordan's is dead; it died somewhere around book six (Lord of Chaos), killed, in my opinion, by world-building that was so restrictive it choked the life out of his storyline.  Keep up the good work, Michelle West--I can't wait for Riven Shield.	2003-05-05
US	35480195	R843SC4XUJVKC	1592120075	894828266	Battlefield Earth	Books	1	29	53	N	N	"Plan 9 from Psychlo"	This is without a doubt the worst book I've read in my entire life. What makes this book so bad? [Everything.] It contains rifts of reasoning that would defy Evel Knievel.  It contains factual errors that even I recognize.  I am currently about halfway through it on a library copy--I was planning to buy it if I thought it was good; however after the first hundred pages I realized I had developed a visceral aversion to spending money on this thing.  Hubbard claimed in his introduction that he had been writing for fifty years when he wrote this book--i.e. he had had fifty years' worth of practice.  It doesn't show.  I wrote something of about this length and only slightly worse in quality as a thirteen-year-old.  What makes this book so tragic, however, is that one can see that there is \\"a ghost of a ghost\\" of a truly epic and breathtaking story lurking behind Hubbard's massive ineptitude as a writer.  I have my doubts that he even recognized the potential scope of the idea however. This book represents a failure of talent on a scale matched only by the stylings of the great Edward D. Wood, Jr.  In fact, it is a shame that Ed Wood died before he could get a chance to direct the movie.  It would have been a match made in heaven.  This book is literally so bad it's good, in much the same way as Ed Wood's opus \\"Plan 9 From Outer Space.\\"	2003-04-21
US	35480195	R1W25DZQPMCXJI	0553568736	544858652	A Plague of Angels	Books	1	3	6	N	N	not worth it	I read this a while ago, and was thoroughly unimpressed.  The plot is disjointed, the characterization nonexistent, the prose style clunky, and the book's attitude on gender relations is irritating and simplistic.  Perhpas she had some interesting ideas in there, however, strangely enough (perhaps due to the clunky prose style) they all came off as shallow and undeveloped.  Maybe some of her other work is better, but I wouldn't know, as I've never picked up another Tepper book since.	2003-02-22
US	35480195	R2TX7ZLX6FHS9Y	0886777402	101474449	The Broken Crown (The Sun Sword, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	slow to start, but absorbing	It took me a while to get into this book, because I had difficulty making it past West's prose style--very ornate, with frequent use of repetition as a stylistic device.  However, around about halfway through the book I was sucked in.  West has extremely well-developed characterization and plots. She is also excellent at world-building; the Dominion and Essaliyen felt convincingly real and convincingly different.  The plotting and scheming is also done well; the effect overall is so good that it felt almost as if I were reading a historical novel.  The heart of the book for me was the relationship between Sendari, Diora, and Teresa, but the northern stuff with Valedan was compelling as well, although Kiriel came across as a little too much like a Mary Sue.  Overall, five stars for plot, five stars for characterization, five stars for world building, two stars for prose style.	2002-12-06
