US	35497203	RWKKYIGY2MOCX	0875969194	290600806	The Imus Ranch: Cooking for Kids and Cowboys	Books	2	23	30	N	N	Book too expansive to be effective	Most of the legitimate criticisms of this book (not the personal attacks, no matter how true) are on target. Deirdre Imus has combined a cookbook with essays and beautiful photographs, but the end result fails.<br />If the focus of The Imus Ranch had been food, this could have worked. As has been pointed out, there are some contradictions in the recipes, primarily in the uses of ingredients that aren't healthy choices. Recipes can be tweaked, of course, and this isn't necessarily fatal.<br />The main problem is the book is way too expansive. Although the best cookbooks make good use of the author's narrative, the ruminations ultimately wander back to the main focus, food. That doesn't happen here effectively. In fact, there are points when the narrative degenerates into a rant and then a second rant follows. <br />After suffering through The Imus Ranch, I'm still not sure what it is. I know what it isn't: a cookbook.	2004-05-28
US	35497203	R1A1PMF0ECTI15	1555534074	76262389	The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama bin Laden, and the Future of Terrorism (Vol 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A tale of two terrorists---and a war everyone ignored	The New Jackals is, on one level, a straightforward true crime saga. Yet it remains an early and insightful account of the rise of Islamist terror.<br />Author Simon Reeve was an English journalist who was largely ignored on the subject of terror prior to September 11th. Earlier books such as Reeve's The New Jackals (published in 1999) expose as the theatre of the absurd the recent political grandstanding about &quot;who knew what and when.&quot; Everyone, it seems, knew for more than a decade the United States was at war, and no one, it seems, bothered to treat it as such.<br />As the author reminds us, the World Trade Center was bombed almost a decade before it was hit September 11th. London-based Reeve recounts the police investigation that followed the first tragedy. The details of the ensuing manhunt represent true crime writing at its best. Unless a reader closely followed the trial of those eventually arrested and convicted, the information is jarring and, in light of what later happened, dismaying. Reeve writes in a crisp, fast-paced style that captures the frenzied efforts of federal and local law enforcement officers to bring the first bombers to justice. <br />The bulk of the book focuses on the terrorist masterminds. Author Reeve chronicles the now-familiar story of how the &quot;Afghan Arabs&quot; who fought the Soviets later turned against the Americans. Ramzi Yousef, who has been described as what Osama bin Laden would like to be, did not run and hide after he engineered the first bombing of the WTC. In fact, the terrorist went on to plot the bombing of American airliners over the Pacific Ocean.  Yousef, now imprisoned in the United States, represents one of bin Laden's more terrifying footsoldiers. As Reeve chillingly points out, there are many on the outside ready to step into Yousef's shoes to carry out bin Laden's goals.<br />Some of the book's particulars are outdated. For example, the once widely held belief that bin Laden worked closely with Saddam Hussein has been debunked. Even so, The New Jackals' revelations should have been the 2,000-pound gorilla in the room. It remains an important account of how terrorists are brought to justice--and how their replacements are created. With 20/20 hindsight, the book also demonstrates why the real tragedy of the first WTC bombing was the lack of any real action against the Islamist terrorists in the decade that followed.	2004-04-13
US	35497203	R4M6DP6YY66SH	1591020115	171804759	Why I Am Not a Muslim	Books	3	37	54	N	N	Multicultural propaganda nauseates ex-Muslim	Ib'n Warraq has little use for Westerners who willfully ignore Islam's complete history and the faith's more troublesome aspects. Warraq's main targets in Why I Am Not A Muslim, in fact, are unbelievers who blindly defend a religion they neither know nor understand.<br />Warraq, a former Muslim, uses the Salman Rushdie affair as his jumping off point and as a symbol of multiculturalism run amok. The author seems to relish rubbing the noses of some Western apologists into the more outrageous pronouncements they made after Rushdie was threatened with death. Warraq points out that many ignorant statements made back then in defense of Islamic extremism are repeated today. As the author chronicles, the Rushdie affair hardly is an anomaly. In the foreword, Warraq recounts an almost identical incident that happened to another writer in Baghdad in the 13th Century. The author places these and other disturbing events in both theological and historical context. From the author's perspective, these dark episodes are the norm rather than the exception. The book also focuses on disturbing practices in modern Islamic nations.<br />Misuse of the term \\"fundamentalist,\\" in particular, illustrates Warraq's point about many apologists.  Here the author briefly is in agreement with most Muslims. Mainstream adherents to Islam are \\"fundamentalists\\" in the sense that they take the Koran literally. Warraq claims this inevitably leads to intolerance and violence. Some of this argument is self-evident; much is spurious. What isn't in question, though, is that the distinction between \\"mainstream\\" Muslims and \\"fundamentalists\\" is a false one and usually made to \\"explain\\" terrorism and violence. Warraq is strongest when he points out these types of misconceptions, misunderstandings and what constitutes blatant propaganda. <br />There are two serious problems with Why I Am Not A Muslim, however. The first is practical. Warraq is too ambitious in scope. It is impossible to cram the history and theological underpinnings of one of the world's great faiths into one book, let alone one as cursory as this one. The second is that the author, clearly embittered by his experience with what he considers a repugnant religion, is not an objective observer. This is illustrated when he discusses homosexuality and Islam, for example. On the one hand, the author seems oddly critical of Islam and the Arab world for \\"acceptance\\" of homosexuality. Yet Warraq concedes gay men and women also have been and still are persecuted and even executed in some Islamic societies. The author doesn't seem concerned with his contradictory outrage. His only goal is to tarnish the religion. This occurs frequently in the book and becomes grating at points.<br />Nonetheless, this is an important work despite its obvious bias. Before people defend or criticize anything, they should at least be familiar with the subject at hand. As Warraq demonstrates, Western apologists for the most outrageous aspects of Islam often don't have a clue about the religion.	2004-01-12
US	35497203	R3WLU3G9P4WKT	0066213711	63693352	Ambling Into History: The Unlikely Odyssey of George W. Bush	Books	3	1	2	N	N	'Ambling' superficial but fun to read	Even as his first term as president nears an end, George W. Bush remains something of an enigma. It should come as no surprise, then, that the reader knows very little about Bush at the conclusion of Ambling Into History, which follows the president from the 2000 campaign to the September 11th attacks.<br />New York Times reporter Frank Bruni makes no pretense that he offers little more than anecdotes. These snippets sometimes illustrate the contradictions that define Bush: here is a man who inappropriately mugs for reporters at a memorial service yet offers a biting, brilliant analysis of the East Coast Establishment several pages later. These &quot;moments,&quot; as the author describes them, aren't nearly as illuminating as Bruni believes. For example, the steely discipline the president displays in the face of the September 11th terrorist attacks runs counter to the frequent silliness Bush exhibited during the campaign, but Bruni never reconciles this and other seeming contradictions.         <br />Ambling does excel is in its criticism of pack journalism and the mindset of reporters who seem more concerned with conformity than with truth. As Bruni watches his girth expand on the campaign trail, he also keeps a sharp eye on journalists who seem more clueless than cynical. If the author had been able to dissect Bush as well as he did his fellow reporters, this could have been a great book. As it is, this is a fun read with very little substance.	2003-09-25
US	35497203	R3BOQ3U8I0V186	0465083560	123213530	The Age Of Terror	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good outline of terror-related issues despite rush to print	The Age Of Terror should be a disaster. Eight academicians and career bureaucrats, thrown together in the immediate aftermath of September 11th, ruminate on issues related to that momentous event. Against all odds, though, this hurried collaboration produced some solid work.<br />Some topics are inspired (how to foster cooperation between the private sector and the military establishment) and others are predictable (foreign policy, civil liberties, and radical Islam). For the most part the authors showed great prescience in their outline of the issues that would confront the United States. The weakest chapter, ironically, covers the most obvious problem: the tension between national security and civil liberties. Conversely, the best essay is the most complex: how to harness American ingenuity to devise new technologies to confront terrorists. Proximity to the attacks did not really effect the quality of the work; those essays that are good would have been so regardless of when written, and the few that fall short would not have improved with time for reflection. The authors all are experts in their respective fields, and if anything this book shows that America's elites were not as caught off guard as it seemed in the first days after the Pentagon and World Trade Center were attacked.<br />This book is a good overview of terror-related policy issues and at times provides a surprising degree of depth. That it worked at all, let alone holds up, is a pleasant surprise and a tribute to the editors and contributors.	2003-08-14
US	35497203	R3TP9421KYH4HR	0060194855	678873627	Truth at Any Cost: Ken Starr and the Unmaking of Bill Clinton	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Lewinsky scandal: the prosecutors' views	Truth At Any Cost does not pretend to be evenhanded. Instead, co-authors Susan Schmidt and Michael Weisskopf examine the Lewinsky affair from the standpoint of those inside the Office of Independent Counsel. The result is a new perspective on an exhaustively covered scandal.<br />This book dwells little on Whitewater and the other investigations that led to the appointment of Independent Counsel Ken Starr. The authors instead concentrate on the sexual scandal that led to Clinton's impeachment and how Starr and his subordinates responded. It would have been nice to know more about the men and women who investigated the president, but the focus is on personality rather than biography. The authors depict Starr in a much different light than the oft-demonized caricature that was spoon-fed the public. Again, it would have been nice to know more about Starr's background, but the concentration is on his character. Starr is presented here as a conscientious but politically naive lawyer better suited to the bench than to the OIC.<br />Although relatively brief, the book drags a bit but picks up steam in the latter chapters as the independent counsel gathers and compiles evidence against the president. A few new revelations emerge along the way. Among them is Hillary Clinton's central role in the defense of her husband and in the counteroffensive against his opponents. <br />This book is worth reading just to see why, as well as how, the prosecutors pursued this case so vigorously. Their motivations often run counter to the stereotypes floated at the time, and this makes for a new spin on an old story.	2003-08-06
US	35497203	R204LP12E7XV2C	0805062394	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (American Empire Project)	Books	3	28	34	N	N	Some spurious claims harm important policy critique	The CIA term \\"blowback\\" can be reduced to a truism: actions have consequences. Professor Chalmers Johnson has put meat on that skeletal premise, and produced an important foreign policy critique that is, unfortunately, riddled with some spurious analogies and ridiculous assertions.<br />Using East Asia as his primary model, Johnson demonstrates how economic and military imperialism ultimately hurt the United States. The author details the anger directed at US troops deployed overseas, the devastation spawned by American and IMF economic policies, and \\"stealth imperialism\\" that destabilizes foreign governments in ways not always apparent. The author is on solid ground when he analyzes how imperial ambitions can harm the United States through such blowback as terrorism and the loss of the nation's industrial base.<br />Professor Johnson weakens his argument, though, with shaky claims and strained analogies. As an example, the author correctly points out that about 3,000 South Koreans were massacred at Kwangju in 1980, something unknown to most Americans. Yet he goes on to draw a moral equivalence between North Korea and South Korea. North Korea has, as official policy, starved to death more than a million people. South Korea would have to commit a Kwangju each day for a year just to catch up with the North's most recent genocidal policy. Professor Johnson also gives a pass to China, which he greatly admires. The professor fails to acknowledge how that emerging power's policies very well may produce blowback similar to that now experienced by the United States. The author does detail China's persecution of Tibet, but he overlooks similar actions taken against the Muslims in the western desert. The latter likely will produce Islamist terrorism in the future. Some of these shortcomings can be attributed to Professor Johnson trying to refight the Cold War to achieve a conclusion more compatible with his leftist perspective.<br />The author is best when he sticks to undeniable truths. Among these are day to day outrages committed on and around overseas bases. From rape to noise pollution, the indignities that emanate from these US military installations incite hatred and anger among civilian populations. Johnson also excels when he explains the meltdown of East Asian economies in 1997. His familiarity with the region and scholarly analysis of this crisis make for thought-provoking reading.<br />The strongest points involve military adventurism. As the author points out, America's elected officials and influential policymakers often have not have experienced the horror of war. On an even more disturbing note, the military establishment has divorced itself from the civilian leadership. Consequently, war often is preferred over diplomacy. This bodes ill for the future.<br />If Professor Johnson had gone lighter on polemics and heavier on facts, this easily would be a five star book. As it is, this is an important work that requires the reader to wade through a lot of foolishness.	2003-07-24
US	35497203	R25806GT4OCWX6	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Witty, gritty terror travelogue the one al-Qaeda book to own	A Yemeni merchant points to his infant son.\\"This is my jihad,\\" he tells journalist Peter Bergen. The proud father is Osama bin Laden's peaceful cousin. This tender scene represents the incongruous but frequent decency Bergen encounters in this well-documented, beautifully written account of bin Laden, al-Qaeda, and a reporter's quest to understand both.<br />The publication date of Holy War, Inc., was accelerated after September 11th. Nonetheless, the work represents years of meticulous research, courageous reporting, and unprecedented access to some of the world's most treacherous terrain and vicious killers. Although some reviewers and even the author claim there is a \\"jagged\\" feel because the publication date was pushed up, this really isn't noticeable. The writing is fluid, harrowing, often playful, and even poignant at times. <br />Cleverly divided into chapters that feature the countries where al-Qaeda made its bones through murder and mayhem, Holy War is a witty, gritty travelogue. Bergen's dry humor and glib narrative makes this an eminently readable book as the author explores the terror group in places as far-flung as Kenya and Kashmir. Along the way, Bergen paints a compelling portrait of bin Laden, whom he met and interviewed for CNN, and the other twisted terrorists for whom the wealthy \\"sheikh\\" serves as a cult leader.<br />The author explores and documents what makes these killers tick. The theme is that al-Qaeda essentially is \\"Holy War, Inc.,\\" a conglomerate of bloodthirsty organizations. There remains little doubt at book's end that al-Qaeda and its affiliates are a well-run cartel whose CEO's can be replaced at will. Bergen also is able to admit what some have not: bin Laden the man remains an enigma with a background shrouded in secrecy. Many of the claims about Osama, including his participation in battle, may be total myth. Bergen is careful not to make any definitive assertions about the murky details. What isn't in doubt are the deadly, cruelintentions that comprise bin Laden's demented philosophy. Bergen explains how these ideas were formed, who shaped and shares these beliefs, and the degree to which they are accepted, and rejected, in the Islamic world.<br />Like many of the better observers of Islamist terror, Bergen isn't resigned to an inevitable struggle that will pit Muslims against the West ad infinitum. In fact, the author makes a very strong case that Samuel Huntington's clash of civilizations theory is inherently flawed. The book's afterword shows that in addition to being a great reporter, Bergen is a superb analyst.<br />This is best displayed, though, in the aforementioned scene in rural Yemen. The author visited bin Laden's ancestral home shortly after the USS Cole was attacked. Contrary to bin Laden's beliefs, the locals there worship at the shrines of Muslim saints. The local mullah sincerely tells Bergen the Cole attack hurt both Yemen and the United States, and expresses heartfelt grief over the loss of life. The mullah invites Bergen to convert to Islam, and there is no doubt that the religious leader's intent is sincere and grounded in his faith. The same cannot be said of bin Laden.<br />If you want to buy only one book about al-Qaeda, this should be it.	2003-07-17
US	35497203	RV8N1OFLH1F87	0300093454	673480068	Jihad: The Rise of Militant Islam in Central Asia	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Insightful, experienced journalist explores troubled region	Journalist Ahmed Rashid has the knack to identify those regions and religious movements that can destabilize the world. In his seminal book on the Taliban, Rashid wrote the definitive account of the bizarre fundamentalists who ruled and oppressed Afghanistan. In Jihad: The Rise of Militant Islam in Central Asia, the author offers fresh insight into the Islamist tumult in the Central Asian republics of the former USSR.<br />Although not as strong as his previous book, Jihad nonetheless is the powerful story of the rise of militant Islam in an impoverished, politically troubled region. The author focuses on Islamist terrorists based in the Fergana Valley, a center of Muslim unrest since the Bolshevik Revolution. Rashid explores, compares and contrasts five Central Asian nations impacted by the valley: Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan.<br />These countries all differ but most continue to suffer the legacy of totalitarianism. After the Soviet Union imploded, Islam came out of the shadows in the Central Asian republics. The successor governments proved as eager as the Kremlin had been to repress religion, and this in turn led to the rise of Islamist terrorism. Rashid places this in a historical and cultural context for each nation. A correspondent long based in the region, Rashid is a reporter with impeccable sources and keen analytical abilities (he sometimes feels compelled to impart most of what he knows and has learned, and that can prove tedious).<br />The book is at its best when the author contrasts Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Tajikistan once sought to wipe out all Islamists. After a violent civil war, the country came to embrace democracy. As a result, Tajikistan is relatively stable today, and religious activists find outlets for expression through the electoral process. Uzbekistan, on the other hand, frowns on religion and has a national policy to suppress Islamists. Partially as a result, that government remains under constant attack from Muslim extremists, and in turn employs all means at the state's disposal to destroy its enemies. This civil war, centered in the Fergana Valley, spills across borders and threatens the region. <br />After Rashid details the violence in Uzbekistan, he introduces the reader to the secretive Juma Namagani, who often seems driven by narcissism more than religious concerns. The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, the terror group Namagani heads, is presented here as a threat that rivals al-Qaeda in its fanaticism and violence.<br />Rashid concludes the actual problem isn't the insurgents, though. It's the repressive states that create them. Fortunately governments can change. The author documents why this holds some promise that Central Asia may not become the next Afghanistan.	2003-07-09
US	35497203	RRFKMTA7P2LQC	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	2	14	25	N	N	Gore Vidal's recycled essays filled with garbage, brilliance	Webster assures us incitement distinguishes the pamphleteer from the essayist. Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace is a handbill graced with wit, beautiful prose, and occasional wisdom. Rank foolishness also oozes throughout this mostly rehashed material. At times insightful, others silly, the theme is Gore Vidal's most consistent--the transformation of America from a republic into an empire. The author exhorts the reader to see the world through his prism or to face dire consequences from terrorists and an oppressive government.<br />The opening essay about September 11th had been denied publication in the United States. Gore does manage to sneak a few original thoughts into this particular rant, among them the suggestion that Osama bin Laden had been provoked. American publishers may have been too obtuse to realize this rather unremarkable observation is not an apologia. <br />Perpetual War isn't about September 11th, though. Osama is only a bit player. The central character is Oklahoma City bomber and decorated war veteran Timothy McVeigh. The author draws intriguing parallels between McVeigh and bin Laden. The Gulf War had galvanized both men and set them on a course against the United States. The final straw for McVeigh was the fiery siege at Waco. The correspondence between the author and McVeigh makes for a fascinating read. New details about why the author actually did not attend McVeigh's execution are shocking, and contradict what you may have read or heard.<br />The author's respect for McVeigh could be misinterpreted as support (as apparently happened with the September 11th essay). Gore emphasizes he finds terrorism abhorrent. Nonetheless, the author seems to believe everything McVeigh writes save he acted alone. Ever the conspiracy buff, Gore seems unable to accept one person loaded a truck with fertilizer and leveled a building. On a serious note, the author's frequent forays into Black Helicopter Land detract from the many valid points he makes.<br />This aged left-wing lion has kept a few sharp teeth, though. Catty zingers and biting social commentary abound. For example, Gore cites the case of a 16-year-old student who was stripped and searched because his teachers believed a certain bulge indicated a drug stash. The educators' rationale was the boy appeared too well-endowed. The author notes that since the youth was not concealing narcotics, \\"(h)e was let go as there is of yet no law penalizing a teenager for being better hung than his teachers.\\" This is vintage Gore Vidal. And who other than this witty curmudgeon would have noticed a physical resemblance between Barbara Bush and George Washington?<br />\\"A Letter To Be Delivered,\\" an almost sentimental appeal to a then-to-be-decided president (written just before the 2000 election), underscores at book's end an odd romanticism that surfaces throughout Perpetual War. Gore doesn't believe for one second that the undetermined addressee will follow his recommendations to gut the Defense Department, but that doesn't stop the author from offering them. <br />Gratuitous advice, of course, is the coin of the realm for pamphleteers. If Gore Vidal ever decides to force stapled screeds (or fonts of wisdom, depending on one's perspective) on passersby, the writing likely will be hilarious, provocative, and alternately brilliant and ridiculous. Nonetheless, the tracts should at least be original if the self-proclaimed defender of the American republic wants to charge for them.	2003-07-05
US	35497203	R2HJA2CI8JFURM	0743234359	512466969	American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us	Books	5	22	29	N	N	Five stars should be pinned to the author's chest	American Jihad is two stories. The first, as the title indicates, is an expose of an Islamist fifth column that has infiltrated America's Muslim community and poses a clear and present danger to the nation as a whole. The second story is author Steven Emerson's personal ordeal. After the author documented terrorist penetration of the United States, a death squad prompted Emerson to alter his appearance and to move to another location. <br />Unlike many investigative journalists who have become targets, though, Emerson keeps his role in perspective. The author's humility strengthens his critical analysis of a religious community often too craven to counter extremists as well as a timid federal government that even now refuses to confront this threat squarely. In fact, Emerson's de facto internal exile is Exhibit A in why American Jihad is an important and maddening book. The confluence of America's cherished civil liberties with mindless political correctness has caused people like the author sometimes to be thrown overboard while potential mass murderers are coddled.<br />This book clearly is much larger than death threats against one journalist. It excoriates universities, mosques, charitable organizations, federal agencies, Islamic centers, the media, the foreign policy establishment, and other institutions that have been guilty of, at a minimum, sins of omission. Many groups, some in the heartland, have outright aided and abetted those who want to destroy the United States. Emerson convincingly makes the case that not only did Hamas and Alkhifa flourish in the U.S., in some aspects these and like groups originated in America.<br />From Tucson to Tampa, American Jihad exposes those who both enable terror and those who commit actual crimes. The University of South Florida is tagged as a hotbed of terrorists. An FBI agent speaks to radical Muslims about civil liberties at a thinly veiled terror-fest. Islamists flood the U.S. due to dangerously lax and often flauntedimmigration laws. Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman, central to the first World Trade Center bombing, actually entered the country after he was cleared of Anwar Sadat's murder. Sometimes America's institutions come across as being as delusional as the terrorists. If anything, this book lays to rest any question about whether or not September 11th was a surprise. America wasn't asleep. It was in denial. It still is.<br />Emerson names names. Professor Sami al-Arian formerly of the University of South Florida, for example, is identified as a key figure in Middle Eastern terrorism (as a related aside, American Jihad makes clear that educated people as well as the ignorant and poor are drawn to Islamist movements). Sheikh Abdullah Assam, whose Alkhifa organization was the precursor to al-Qaeda, is revealed as a central supporter of violence who has deep American roots and family ties. Other figures large and small are named. It doesn't take much speculation to surmise this book was heavily and successfully lawyered.<br />One of the weaker aspects of American Jihad is the author' s repetitive observation that the vast majority of Muslims aren't terrorists. Most readers obviously know that, so it seems Emerson is being overly solicitous. If 80 percent of U.S. mosques and Islamic centers are dominated by Islamists as one source asserts, not only are Emerson's apologies unnecessary, America's Muslim community needs to do a lot of serious soul-searching. How that 80 percent figure was derived, in fairness, is never explained.  Further, some of the bravest figures in this book are the few American Muslims and clerics who confront the Islamists. Emerson is no bigot. He is, simply, painfully honest. <br />The charts and appendices at the book's end prove quite useful. Emerson richly documents that many mainstream Muslim organizations and charities have been at the forefront of extremism, and he doesn't flinch from using graphics, flow charts and surreptitiously obtained tapes to provehis point. As a result--and on a personal note--I was shocked to find an al-Qaeda cell was detected in my city.<br />Few journalists actually shape the national dialogue. Steven Emerson did to a degree. Americans may be a bit safer as a result.<br />The five stars awarded this book should be pinned to the author's chest.	2003-06-11
US	35497203	R2TBUOGCP10URT	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Deceptively disjointed, Islam's decline succinctly explored	Released contemporaneously with the September 11th attacks, this book at first blush seems to consist of material slapped together to capitalize on the tragedy. The first three chapters on early Muslim successes were gleaned from a series of lectures the author delivered in Europe, and much of the other material was previously published. The central theme--the failure of Islamic societies to thrive in the modern world-- does not become obvious until Professor Bernard Lewis belatedly delves into disparate subjects such as clocks, secularism, and women's rights.<br />Near the book's end, however, it becomes apparent why Professor Lewis initially introduced the reader to Islam's golden age. The common thread is that the Muslim world reached its zenith early and then failed to keep apace with the West. As modern societies demanded religious pluralism, women's' rights, and the emancipation of slaves, Islamic countries found themselves in essentially the same dark place as those nations they previously dominated--and for the very same reasons. Just as Muslims had been relatively tolerant and intellectually inquisitive while Medieval Christians encouraged violence and ignorance, those positions had reversed. This is a provocative theme in some circles, but the author makes an incredibly strong case. Scapegoats are easier to accept than blatant failure, of course, but facts are stubborn things. The author supplies ample facts.<br />A particularly interesting chapter is devoted to time, weights, and measurements. Lewis uses the timepiece as a metaphor for Islam's decline from the world leader in scientific knowledge to a society reluctant to use watches and clocks built in Christendom. It is brilliant shorthand for the dissolution of a great civilization.<br />There may be a few quibbles with some of the book's substance. The reader, particularly someone not well-versed in Middle Eastern history, might be left with the impression that Islam did not flourish until the Ottoman conquests. Professor Lewis never implies that to be the case but the devotion of roughly half of the book to the Ottomans certainly could leave that misimpression. Although minor, the author also implies the passion plays the Shia enact to commemorate the martyrdom of Hussein were introduced by Jewish actors expelled from Spain. Other scholars believe these plays came into prominence as a form of protest soon after the schism in Islam erupted between the Sunnis and Shia. Again, this is a small point of contention, but given the provocative theme it could be blown out of proportion to try to discredit the entire book.<br />Lewis, perhaps the United States' preeminent Middle Eastern scholar, has been condemned as bigoted in some quarters because of the ideas floated here. The irony is that Professor Lewis, who is old enough and wise enough not to tolerate political correctness, sometimes pulls his punches. For example, the author gingerly approaches the delicate issue that may hold the answer to the book's ultimate question: whether traditional Islam is even capable of adapting to a modern world. The author clearly believes the faith can survive but fails to adequately explain why. His admiration of Islam's rich culture and history is undeniable. Further, Professor Lewis reluctantly mentions that there is a struggle in Islam between those sects that want to return to the year 800 C.E. and those that want to live in the present. The author has recently written (pulled together?) a book that expounds on this very theme, perhaps because he realized this was the most important issue that remained unexplored at the end of What Went Wrong? The case Lewis lays out here does not bode well for the masses of moderate, traditional Muslims. It will be interesting to read his new analyses.<br />What Went Wrong? is a good introduction to Islam, Middle Eastern history, and the past struggles that undergird today's conflicts between the Muslim world and the West. There are better books devoted solely to each of these subjects, of course, but Professor Lewis has done a brilliant, succinct job of showing how these topics are so intertwined with today's news.ooks devoted solely to each of these subjects, of course, but Professor Lewis has done a brilliant, succinct job of showing how these topics are so intertwined with today's news.	2003-06-09
US	35497203	RW01LXJUHMZIZ	0743200748	867939499	Comrades: Brothers, Fathers, Heroes, Sons, Pals	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Sometimes moving essay  too expansive	The late historian Steven Ambrose wrote definitive accounts of the American West, Lewis and Clark, Presidents Eisenhower and Nixon, and the World War II generation. Each topic emerges in some form or another in Comrades, Professor Ambrose's essay indirectly devoted to his father and directly dedicated to friendships among men.<br />At times quite moving, and at others nauseatingly maudlin, Professor Ambrose ruminates about a largely ignored area that may be the most important aspect of history. Ambrose opens with a chapter dedicated to the friendships he had with his brothers. This bodes poorly for the rest of the book (think Dr. Phil and/or Oprah) although that initial reaction proves deceptive. Professor Ambrose ends with a powerful chapter devoted to his friendship with his father. Despite its eloquence, though, the final chapter seems disingenuous at times as the author lauds a man whom he has subtly and not so subtly accused of mental, verbal and physical abuse. This is hard to square with blind praise even if the poetry is beautiful.<br />The book also is weak because of its brevity. The short format does not lend itself to adequate examinations of Ambrose's personal friendships as well as the relationships historical figures such as Crazy Horse and He Dog enjoyed. This brief book required the author to focus exclusively on either the personal or the historical, and he attempted both.<br />Nonetheless, passages of shining prose and heartfelt joy about friendships with other men ultimately save Comrades. Male relationships need further and much deeper exploration, and Ambrose's courageous attempt to tackle the subject, however cursory, is commendable.	2003-05-29
US	35497203	RP8I2M0PA1EON	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Rashid owned the Taliban story	A cliche is appropriate here. Ahmed Rashid owned this story. <br />A long-time correspondent based in Central Asia, Rashid was singularly situated to tell the world about the Taliban. Written well before the United States invaded Afghanistan, Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil, and Fundamentalism in Central Asia is a testament to the author's power of observation, ability to cultivate excellent sources, and prowess as an interviewer and a researcher. To the outside world, the Taliban seemed insane. Rashid chronicles why that distant perception was correct. Years as a journeyman reporter provided Rashid entree into places few independent sources could go. This unprecedented access, and Rashid's talent as a writer, convey the sheer madness that gripped Afghanistan. The result is the definitive book on the Taliban.<br />Rashid proves to be a brilliant analyst as well as an intrepid reporter. As an example, the author gives the best explanation to date of why the Taliban was so virulently misogynistic. Many of these Islamist fanatics, Rashid explains, were raised in all-male orphanages, educated only by men, and lived exclusively among other boys. This incisive explanation of the gender issue is typical of the author's best analyses, some of  which come across almost as throwaway lines (\\"failed states are not necessarily dying states\\" springs to mind). Rashid also has a keen eye for the absurd. The number of Taliban officials missing limbs, eyes and other body parts, he notes, was quite disconcerting.<br />On a serious note, Rashid also examines the wider issues the Taliban represented. In the process, he spares no one. Such diverse personages as American oil barons, old-style Russian expansionists, Islamic religious fanatics, atavistic communist tyrants, and corrupt Muslim officials all receive the harsh treatment they richly deserve. The Taliban's Afghanistan truly became a quagmire for its enablers and enemies. As some regional powers promoted their vision of a religious utopia, they also sowed the seeds of their own destruction as Afghan-based terrorists put those very governments in their crosshairs. Unfortunately for the West, this failed state also gave al-Qaeda and heroin producers a sanctuary. Western energy interests, Wahhabi-promoting Saudis, Central Asian dictators, and power-crazed Pakistani intelligence officers sacrificed national interests for their narrow concerns, and Rashid makes it clear the world is a much more dangerous place as a result.<br />This book is a triumph precisely because the author ties together all these seemingly disparate evils--terrorism, repression, gratuitous violence, corporate greed, geopolitical hegemony, Islamic radicalism, drug trafficking----and makes a compelling case that the Taliban was more their symptom than cause.	2003-05-22
US	35497203	R1K6H4Y3T1FFF3	0743233425	970539402	Sacred Rage: The Wrath of Militant Islam	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Updated material strengthens Sacred Rage	Middle Eastern terrorism almost became white noise after hostage taking, embassy bombings, hijackings, and other violent acts lost their novelty. That changed, of course, when the volume was cranked way up on September 11, 2001. <br />There were those who anticipated the crescendo long before it sounded. Los Angeles Times correspondent Robin Wright covered the Iranian revolution, the attack on the Marine barracks in Beirut, and other regional violence and issues in the Eighties. She eloquently documented these events and their larger meaning in her seminal work, Sacred Rage: The Wrath of Militant Islam, in 1985. Yet in attention span-challenged United States--even among those who read Sacred Rage--the spectacular attacks 16 years later still seemed to come as a complete shock.<br />Many books on Islamism were updated after September 11. The revised editions often consisted of rehashed material with new introductions and a few topical chapters tacked onto the end.<br />This is not the case with the trade paperback version of Sacred Rage. In fact, a very good book has achieved near greatness. Author Robin Wright's groundbreaking exploration of the rise and spread of Islamic fundamentalism does more than give tremendous context to what happened years later in Washington and New York. In a sense, the diverse material now coalesces as Wright explores the recent trend towards democracy among the same militants whose terror she covered in the Eighties. The recent edition even offers plausible solutions to conflicts between the West and the Middle East; glimmers of hope even manage to appear now and again, which should be counterintuitive. <br />The new chapters that involve Osama bin Laden and his view of the future are striking and fit in naturally with the other material. Wright contrasts al-Qaeda's reactionary attempts to turn the clock back to 700 with the yearning among many Iranians and Lebanese for true democracy. This different world view is, to a large degree, theproduct of the repression of the Shia. This suffering helped give birth to the rage and wrath Wright chronicles, and in an ironic twist the author seems to think these Muslims might be the ones to embrace a democratic and pluralistic Middle East.<br />There are a few problems with the new version. Wright defines the terms \\"fundamentalism\\" and \\"Islamist\\" differently from some other authors. She uses the former in an almost negative sense, and the latter favorably. Of greater concern, Wright doesn't adequately explain why an Islamist Lebanon would be so radically different from the Sudan or Saudi Arabia. Also, her comparisons between America's Religious Right and Islamic fundamentalists are way over the top in 2003. <br />These are only minor gripes, though. Sacred Rage is more relevant today than it was when first published. Also, Wright has softened her near-apologies for the more extreme behavior she documented. This version sheds light on the struggle between those Muslims who want both democracy and Islam, and those who only want theocracy. That struggle inevitably involves the United States and the West. Sacred Rage suggests the West's interaction with the Muslim world can be constructive. This is preferable to the suggestion of an inevitable clash of civilizations. That gloom and doom scenario usually is offered by those whose knowledge of the region pales in comparison with others who always heard the background noise of potential violence and reported it years before the first plane slammed into the World Trade Center.	2003-05-08
US	35497203	RWVU6ZV3MPGNI	0813337798	490249478	Legacy Of The Prophet: Despots, Democrats, And The New Politics Of Islam	Books	3	16	22	N	N	September 11th renders some of 'Legacy' dated	This optimistic view of Islamists published in January 2001 was rendered somewhat dated by events later that year. Even though Legacy of the Prophet continues to be a solid account of the moderation and rise of religious political movements in the Middle East, some of the more hopeful assertions would have been naive even if the World Trade Center remained intact. September 11th, of course, also changed some assumptions that would have been reasonable otherwise. All that aside, there remains considerable merit in many of the author's analyses of the region and its politics, and much of the book holds up. Legacy deserves three stars--but barely.<br />Author Anthony Shadid was an Associated Press correspondent based in Cairo. He understandably focuses much of the book on Egypt, and this provides Legacy with some great insight from the sources he cultivated there over the years. Unfortunately, the concentration on Cairo also minimizes those Islamic countries that probably are more important to the future of the relationship between the Muslim world and the West, notably Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.<br />Shadid does an excellent job in explaining the contest between Islamist groups and the repressive regimes that govern them. The social welfare system provided by Hamas, for example, stands in stark contrast with the corrupt government led by the Palestinian Authority. Hezbollah provides for the impoverished Shia while the Beirut government stuggles to bring the nation back from the ashes of civil war. <br />The darker aspects of these and other groups, though, aren't really explored. One particularly galling aspect of the book is Shadid's near-apologies for the persececution of Christians and other religious minorities in the region. This is particularly strange given that Shadid comes from a Christian Lebanese background. It is difficult to imagine that anyone would try to minimize the persecution of Egypt's large Coptic minority, but that sometimes seems to be the casehere. <br />The author does take a long, hard look at the failed Islamic experiments in the Sudan and in Iran, and attempts to differentiate between those governments and those where religious and secular parties compete. What Shadid fails to do is explain exactly why an Islamist Egypt or Turkey wouldn't, in the end, resemble the Sudan. Shadid's thesis is that once in power, the Center Party in Egypt, as one example, would synthesize the Islamic concept of the umma with Western-style pluralism and tolerance. The record indicates otherwise.<br />So the question that always lingers, but is never answered, is how a state based on religion can truly embrace democracy and pluralism.  Shadid thinks it can, but history---events that predate Osama bin Laden and even Mohammed by millinnea---indicates otherwise.	2003-04-02
US	35497203	R19S5Z4PAMUBAK	0399135170	300079270	Divorcing The Dictator: America's Bungled Affair with Noriega	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Earlier dictator, earlier Bush, earlier confrontation	Before Saddam, there was Noriega. Both were the creations and eventual tormentors of the United States and the West.<br />Author Frederick Kempe's Divorcing The Dictator vacillates between traditional reportage and polemics about a foreign policy that accepted a tyrant and his excesses. The result is an often riveting account of a dictator who played all sides in the waning days of the Cold War. Kempe's tirades avoid repetitious thoughts, sentences, and even whole paragraphs that appear verbatim at several points in his straight reporting. Nonetheless, Kempe's righteous indignation sometimes can be just as cloying.<br />One laudable burst of anger is the author's account of the American betrayal of failed coup leader Maj. Moises Giroldi. This tragicomedy is reminiscent of President John F. Kennedy's cynical sellout of the American-backed troops at the Bay of Pigs. Like JFK,  the first President George Bush sat on his hands as Giroldi and those who supported him futilely awaited limited U.S. assistance. Another editorial highlight is the expose of President Jimmy Carter's blatant cover-up of Noriega's criminality. The book's best passages are to be found in the last chapter, where the author ruminates eloquently about the coddling of dictators and how this bastardized United States foreign policy.<br />The Noriega presented here was far more complex than the media-portrayed monster.  A man of strange sexual habits, weird spiritual beliefs, and keen insight, Noriega used a sociopathic and brilliant mind to loot a country, betray his friends, and cling to power. From his impoverished and sad childhood in the slums of Panama City to his eventual arrest and conviction, the biographical information contains some new details as well as material that has been previously reported.<br />As the second President Bush prepares to topple another dictator, Kempe reminds us that previously friendly tyrants can become, as the title to one chapter suggests, very dangerous tar babies.	2003-03-07
US	35497203	R2ID9YYEF89XMQ	0743222903	816468637	The Big Enchilada: Campaign Adventures with the Cockeyed Optimists from Texas Who Won the Biggest Prize in Politics	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Raunchy, partisan and insightful look at 2000 campaign	Most people view politics like an enema: an unpleasant but occasionally necessary procedure to make the system function properly. It is easy to forget there are people, some quite gifted, who derive actual pleasure from campaigns. These technocrats, whether they be James Carville or author Stuart Stevens, sometimes prove as intriguing as the people they try to elect. In The Big Enchilada, Stevens explains how the hired guns can be just as jaded as everyone else and still excel and take great pride in their chosen profession.<br />The Big Enchilada is witty, surprisingly raunchy, and insightful. There have been few books written about the actual 2000 presidential campaign. The Big Enchilada focuses primarily on the propaganda war and the other nuts and bolts work that preceded the Tallahassee train wreck. As a result, the reader gets a feel for the loyalty George W. Bush inspired among his campaign advisers, spin doctors, and media consultants.  From the moment political guru Karl Rove diagrams the Bush campaign on a napkin until Vice President Al Gore makes his second concession speech, media consultant Stevens explains how an insular, Austin-based organization triumphed over an incumbent's heir apparent in a time of peace and prosperity. <br />Stevens is at his best when he describes absurd people and moments, such as the demand by the oft-hapless Gore campaign that no cameras be placed behind their candidate's bald head. The author also lays bear the rank hypocrisy of Senator John McCain, who ran on a campaign finance reform platform yet shook down political contributions from the very people over whom he had oversight. <br />The weakest aspect of the book is Stevens' unflagging loyalty to George W. Bush. In the author's eyes, now-President Bush could do and did no wrong. It would have been nice to see some of the president's dirty laundry without a lame apologia. Also, some of the author's one-liners fall flat although that is the exception rather than the rule.<br />The people who dedicate themselves to public service and who play the hardball of politics make democracy work. Stevens shows why there is no dearth of hired guns and foot soldiers in the battles that make the system work.	2003-02-17
US	35497203	R2D7JANPWERGYD	0060193328	269737487	First They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Genocide as seen through a child's eyes	First They Killed My Father is genocide as seen through a child's eyes. Twenty years later, Cambodia's killing fields still cover unspeakable atrocities the world has not unearthed. This is one survivor's attempt to shed light on the pain she tried to bury there along with the dead.<br />The strength and the weakness of this book rests in its style; the use of the present tense in a child's voice can fall flat at times. Nonetheless, the same voice can leave the reader stunned and near tears several pages later. As author Loung Ung reconstructs political conversations she claims she had with her beloved father at the age of five, it strikes the reader as totally contrived--as it obviously must be. Yet as she describes a child's fear spawned by war, terror, and the nightmares that follow her at all times, it becomes all too real to bear. Loung, now a beautiful American woman, becomes a tough little Cambodian girl again at those points.<br />It seems almost a sacrilege to criticize any aspect of this compelling book, though, because it is such a powerful testament to the human spirit. On balance, the shortcomings that result from Loung's style are greatly outweighed by the power her narrative evokes. The guilt she suffers after she has eaten some of her family's scarce rice, for example, reveals a child's innate honesty and ability to grasp the ramifications of the simplest act. As pirates steal a jade Buddha, the last tangible link to Loung's murdered father, the reader feels the orphaned child's complete numbness.<br />Loung's observations about her siblings' different personalities, and how these varied traits allowed some to survive the communist slaughter, probably are the strongest observations in the book. Loung concedes she cannot understand how such a sensitive person as her sister Chou lived amidst the ever-present threat of rape, murder, torture and starvation, and the reader grows to appreciate the beauty that terrible mystery represents.<br />As reports emerge from North Korea and elsewhere about mass starvation and terror under the reigns of madmen, the reader can recall that two decades ago the same happened in Cambodia and the world stood mute as it would again and again in Rwanda, the Balkans, and too many places to name. Each new indignity against humanity makes the slogan \\"never again\\" ring a little more hollow, but as long as beautiful souls like Loung survive and chronicle what happened, the hope the phrase represents will endure.	2003-02-06
US	35497203	R1UU11UV9PX060	0609603930	183754374	Uncovering Clinton: A Reporter's Story	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Five years later: big story, big ego	The fifth anniversary of the Monica Lewinsky scandal came and went without little media coverage or public reaction. People seem to have forgotten how the whole world briefly revolved around a blue dress and Newsweek reporter Michael Isikoff. <br />It is a safe bet Isikoff hasn't forgotten. <br />The title and author's name appear in equal size type along the spine of Uncovering Clinton/A Reporter's Story. This technical touch is an appropriate tribute to Isikoff's monumental ego. The reporter's megalomania is on display from the first page to the acknowledgements; one two-page footnote is dedicated to a relatively inconsequential detail that involves Iskoff. The journalist is pretty full of himself.<br />So why give such a vanity project three stars? The answer lies in the epilogue. The last pages of Uncovering Clinton probably best summarize the scandal and subsequent impeachment and acquittal of Clinton more than anything written at the time or since. One line about the press coverage, in particular, stands out:<br />\\"Sometimes the best stuff comes from the most unpleasant people.\\" <br />Isikoff's summation is dead on.<br />Few heroes are to be found here. The \\"most unpleasant people\\" make the best sources, the best investigators, the best villians, the best liars, the best conspirators, and the best characters. New details emerge in these pages about Matt Drudge, Sidney Blumenthal, Lucianne Goldberg, Linda Tripp, Monica Lewinsky, Vernon Jordan and assorted others, but none are rehabilitated by the fresh information. President Clinton is oddly absent from most pages. Yet when Clinton does appear he is a dark and furtive figure.<br />Iskioff, apparently unwittingly, portrays himself as a reporter with an oversized ego and just enough grandiosity to see his work as always for the greater good. Oddly, Paula Jones comes across as a very sympathetic character. Isikoff finds a surprising degree of merit in Jones' sexual harassment lawsuit against Clinton. On the otherhand, Isikoff's acceptance of Kathleen Willey's dubious tale throws this and other observations into some question. The Betty Currie the author portrays is potentially more culpable than she appeared. Without actually stating it, Isikoff's outrage at cyber-muckraker Drudge is an acknowledgement of the transition from the old era of the Establishment press to the Internet age of instant information. Drudge's scoops are a portent of things to come.<br />The book effectively is divided into three sections: the  Jones lawsuit against the president, which started it all; the Willey accusation, which interjected Isikoff into the story; and the sexual scandal and subsequent cover-up that led to the president's impeachment. The author neatly ties them all together.<br />As the title indicates, this is a reporter's story. Neither scholarly nor shallow, Uncovering Clinton chronicles how one egotistical and dogged journalist covered, and in the process helped shape, a historic event that most people seem eager to forget. Given the sordid calamity Isikoff describes, the public reaction is understandable---and regrettable.	2003-02-04
US	35497203	R25O6CQY9ZLRMS	0671689355	548220392	Strom Thurmond and the Politics of Southern Change	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A fair  account of the politics of racial upheaval	Published only a decade ago, the tenor of  Strom Thurmond & the Politics of Southern Change seems quaint in its occasional indignation. Yet it also gives context to the firestorm that erupted when then-Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott recently proclaimed that America would have been better off if Thurmond had defeated President Harry Truman in 1948. As author Nadine Cohodas' work shows, even Sen. Thurmond may not agree with Lott these days. <br />The Politics of Southern Change, it could be argued, does not devote enough attention to Thurmond's Dixiecrat presidential campaign. From a historic standpoint, Thurmond's most important political decision was to bolt the Democrats and run on a pro-segregationist platform; it is almost a given that in the future this will be the lead in Thurmond's obituary. Yet Cohodas attempts to give a complete picture of a man whose life almost is a metaphor for Southern politics as he evolves from a Yellow Dog Democrat to a Dixiecrat and finally becomes a conventional Republican. The author could not focus solely on the 1948 presidential campaign and tell the whole story of the man and the political and racial tumult of the times. Instead, Cohodas traces Thurmond's remarkable career from his stint as a humble school official, a progressive governor, and finally as a United States senator who transformed with the times. In the process, she avoids what easily could have been a one-dimensional account of the senator, who recently retired and turned 100 years old.<br />The Thurmond who emerges is a complex man who could be an opportunistic, hate-filled race baiter and at other times a truly courageous figure who put his principles first. Cohodas describes a politician better than many of his contemporaries,  including the notorious racist governor \\"Pitchfork\\" Ben Tillman, but a leader who also appears unable to connect his words and actions to the violence committed  against innocent black Southerners who simply wanted to vote and participate in society. Yet as blacks gain the franchise, Thurmond adjusts to court their votes in the two-party contemporary South. <br />Cohodas tries, with mixed results, to make the case that while most white Southern politicians embraced segregation and racist views until the civil rights movement triumphed, a schism always was below the surface between those who would now be considered \\"liberal\\" or \\"conservative.\\" Thus, with the victory of the civil rights movement, arch-segregationists such as Senator William Fulbright come to represent conventional liberal Democrats, and former race-baiters like Thurmond  become traditional Republican conservatives. The glue that held together the one-party South was segregation, and once it ended so did Democratic dominance in the region. Cohodas falls short in explaining these dynamics, which are subtle, difficult to understand, and a harsh reality for members of both major parties to admit. At times, she seems to give a pass to people who are now considered left-of-center Democrats like South Carolina Senator Fritz Hollings, who once held the very same racist beliefs as Thurmond did. The author also glosses over a reality that amused Thurmond and outraged the Rev. Martin Luther King: the rank hypocrisy that whites outside the South demonstrated when attempts were made and often failed to end de facto (and in some cases de jure) segregation in other regions of the country.<br />Cohodas avoids tabloid pursuit of Thurmond's alleged black child, but she also omits other personal details that leaves the reader with questions. Among these are the reasons that led to the senator's divorce from his second wife, Nancy.<br />Ultimately, though, this is the story of how a well-bred boy from rough-hewn upcountry Carolina became a national figure and symbolized the transformation of a region and the country as a whole. Thurmond's and the South's long journey into modernity make for a fascinating and important read.	2003-01-28
US	35497203	RRTCJ3AP75XWL	0517582228	603007886	Hernando De Soto: A Savage Quest in the Americas	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Young author produces a masterpiece	Although Hernando De Soto: A Savage Conquest in the Americas is a biography, it reveals as much about the hideous cruelty the Spanish inflicted upon indigenous peoples as it does about the great conquistadors. In doing so, author David Ewing Duncan allows the reader to balance the triumphs of Soto with the vast human destruction he left in his wake. Neither an apologia nor a polemic, this book stays close to the facts and represents the best in popular history.<br />Meticulously researched and beautifully written, De Soto unfolds like a riveting novel as it follows the explorer from his impoverished youth to his anti-climatic death near the Mississippi River. To anyone interested in the European conquest of the Americas (or in the decimation of the Indians and their cultures) this book is a must read.  <br />In addition to Soto, the author chronicles the achievements and savageries of such other notables as Cortez, Pizarro, Balboa, and Coronado. The book cleverly references and analyzes the works of American and Spanish historians, including those who were present as the conquerors murdered, raped, pillaged, enslaved, proselytized and bravely explored in South, Central and North America. Where there is a disparity in the record Duncan examines the conflict and suggests the account he considers the more reliable. At times the contemporary American Soto enthusiasts and the Spanish historians who are referenced throughout the book prove almost as intriguing as their subject matter.<br />Given the tremendous undertaking this work represents, Duncan manages to produce a highly readable and lively book. Even if the author can't help but reveal his personal revulsion at Soto's blatant inhumanity, Duncan also is objective enough to acknowledge flashes of true heroism and bravery. The Soto that the author presents is a historic Indiana Jones figure who descends into a Conrad-like Heart of Darkness.<BR> <BR>The book cleverly incorporates maps, charts, paintings, and other graphics into the text. Further, although it may be tempting to skip the footnotes due to the length of the text, the reader is well advised not to do so.  Buried in these footnotes are clever thoughts, insights and explanations.<br />This book richly deserves five stars and a second look by anyone who skipped it when it was first released.	2003-01-17
US	35497203	R3DAXNSYGDLAD6	0312221193	348854712	FDR and His Enemies	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A man of first-rate enemies	President Franklin Delano Roosevelt proved his mettle in how he dealt with his domestic enemies almost as much as in the way he fought Hitler, Tojo, and Mussolini. As Professor Albert Fried demonstrates in FDR and His Enemies, the homegrown foes were at times the tougher adversaries.<br />Fried places on FDR's list a formidable cross-section of American enemies: Father Charles Coughlin, the bombastic radio priest; aviator Charles Lindbergh, who morphed from international hero into Nazi dupe; John Lewis, the labor leader who used people as callously as ashtrays; Al Smith, the first Catholic to run for president who became an ardent opponent of the New Deal; and Louisiana hurricane Huey Long, perhaps the most dangerous and brilliant of the five. How FDR responds to each is based on that individual's strengths and weaknesses. Thus, Lindbergh and Coughlin are marginalized by their own words, Smith and Lewis by their own vanity, and the dynamo Long is co-opted as much as he is battled. FDR's deft approach to each proves impressive.<br />Unfortunately, the book at times is an apologia for FDR's many excesses and shortcomings. As an example, spurious excuses are offered for horrific civil liberty violations such as the president's indiscriminate use of the FBI wiretaps on domestic foes. In this and many other instances Fried betrays the prejudices of academicians of his era. To such men FDR did no wrong, the facts be damned. Also, in keeping with the style of professors of his background, Fried can't resist showing off his impressive vocabulary. Keep a dictionary handy.<br />Nonetheless, the book remains eminently readable and brings a unique perspective to an earlier president whose superb political skills often exceeded his discretion and intellectual capacity. Fried is at his acidic best when he directly quotes outrages from Lindbergh and Coughlin, and the book shines when the professor chronicles the seemingly benign but always powerful theatrics of Long and Lewis. <br/>One of the better descriptions of FDR was \\"a man of first-rate temperament\\". As Fried proves, FDR had first-rate enemies as well.	2002-12-27
US	35497203	R5FW9TO1RG5PW	0788199404	218496758	Endgame: Solving the Iraq Problem -- Once and for All	Books	3	22	33	N	N	Controversial author's narrative strong, thesis weak	The United Nations' recent \\"inspection\\" of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction program makes it painfully clear little has changed since Scott Ritter resigned from UNSCOM in 1998. The UN and the United States seem stuck in a time warp, which Ritter predicted in Endgame: Solving the Iraq Problem--Once and for All. <br />The weakest aspect of Endgame, ironically, is Ritter's envisioned endgame; his proposed detente seems unrealistic and contradictory.  Even so the book makes for a good and relevant read. The author isn't anyone to be taken lightly on the subjects of Iraq, disarmament, Saddam Hussein, and war and peace. Given the recent demonization of Ritter because of his anti-war stance, it is good to remember this retired Marine intelligence officer almost lost his life while he served as an arms inspector (in fact, the passage where an Iraqi soldier prepares to shoot Ritter is stunning). Ritter's proposed solution to the Iraq question is flawed but this is a man of unquestioned patriotism, humanity and integrity. His opinions obviously were shaped by first-hand observations of the suffering of the Iraqi people under both Saddam and the UN sanctions. Ritter also seems to have been nauseated by several U.N. and U.S. officials, particularly former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. The author does acknowledge the heroes who managed to emerge. Among these brave souls are former United States ambassaor to the UN Bill Richardson, who recently was elected governor of New Mexico. Another admirable character is former UNSCOM head Richard Butler, who has reached completely different conclusions from Ritter about how to deal with Iraq.<br />Ritter provides great insight into the tribalism and rank gangsterism that propelled Saddam to power and keeps him there. He paints a damning portrait of a dictator who uses rape as a weapon of mass personal destruction. In one particularly memorable scene, an angry Saddam torches his son's garage and 12 sports cars. Iraq's concealmentpolicy seems a logical extension of such insanity although, as Ritter notes, the inspectors mostly found incriminating documents but few prohibited weapons.<br />Given the fraud and deceit Ritter details it is inexplicable that the author recommends dropping economic sanctions if Saddam promises not to develop weapons of mass destruction. Further, Ritter's suggestion that Iraq be allowed to develop a peaceful nuclear program borders on the bizarre. The author never explains why a regime with a history of compulsive lying should be trusted. Yet Ritter also makes a compelling case that war will not solve anything in Iraq, and the ultimate goal there should be disarmament. Saddam truly is just one part of the Iraq problem.<br />A word of caution is in order to the reader: Ritter has a military man's love of acronyms and there is no glossary for quick reference to all the letters strung together. On the other hand, he predictably likes maps and these prove useful. Another strong point is that the author manages to keep his personal role proportional to what happened.<br />As war drums once again sound along the Potomac, this is a good book to read. Ritter's proposed solutions clearly will not work, but he explains why war won't, either.	2002-12-19
US	35497203	RODVL7FXK4AHU	0312874979	41319783	Peace, War, and Politics: An Eyewitness Account	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Anderson rises above the muck	Columnist Jack Anderson never suffered self-esteem or objectivity problems. Yet in his autobiographical Peace, War and Politics, Anderson displays humility and a degree of introspection that is shocking to anyone familiar with his often self-aggrandizing muck. <br />Anderson often pumped out scandalous drivel in which he conspicuously cast himself as the central figure. It could be speculated that if Anderson had not been such a successful publicity hound, he would have become a serial killer obsessed with newspaper clippings and broadcast reports of his crimes. Yet a decent and moral man emerges in this account of a colorful life.<br />Although several of Anderson's more convoluted conspiracy theories are rehashed (the JFK assassination chapter is incomprehensible), the book is mostly solid and an enjoyable read. Early chapters devoted to Anderson's boyhood in Depression-era Utah and his World War II adventures in China are excellent. <br />Anderson's running battle with the Nixon Administration, and his seething rage at what he saw as Jimmy Carter's hypocrisy and total incompetence, reveal a righteous indignation that is simultaneously tedious and fascinating. While he rightly condemns the excesses of J. Edgar Hoover, and even digs through garbage bins for dirt on the late FBI director, Anderson also is objective enough to admit the G-man never politicized his agency. <br />Anderson makes some very insightful observations. For example, he shares his fear that former Soviet scientists might one day assist rogue Islamic states. Written well before 2001, this and much more speculation about the aftermath of the Cold War proves well-founded.<br />The most surprising aspect of Peace, War and Politics is Anderson's self-deprecating humor. When potential sources offer juicy details for cash, Anderson humorously remembers he didn't have the funds to pay for them, and ethics were a secondary consideration. In addition to himself, Anderson reports on the foibles and strengths of his poorly paid interns and associates. Many like Brit Hume went on to become prominent reporters and broadcasters. The degree to which Anderson acknowledges these young, underpaid muckrakers is as admirable as it is surprising. Anderson also turns the spotlight onto a hypocritical national media that shunned him yet often followed his lead.<br />The highlight of the book is a very brief chapter about the return of General Anthony McAuliffe, whom Anderson describes as the most decent person he ever met, to a hero's welcome in Bastogne. Gen. McAuliffe is remembered for his reply \\"nuts\\" to a Nazi demand that he surrender his 101st Airborne troops and the Belgian town they defended during the Battle of the Bulge. McAuliffe tells Anderson that he \\"never cared \\" for  General George Patton after Patton surveyed the frozen enemy bodies at Bastogne and commented \\"these are the types of Germans I like to see.\\" McAuliffe, who commanded the troops who killed the soldiers, said the dead were mostly boys like the Americans who fought against them.<br />Given such humanistic insight into people, it is apparent Anderson never wet the bed into his late 20's, engaged in pyromania, tortured small animals in his youth, or fantasized about serial murder. No, if he hadn't become a muckraker, Jack Anderson very well could have been a Mormon church official albeit a very opinionated and self-absorbed one.	2002-12-10
US	35497203	RQKJ4LE1LJQFD	0374228949	252597130	Pakistan: In the Shadow of Jihad and Afghanistan	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Sparkling essays give human face to Pakistan's decline	The sparkling essays that comprise this wonderful book seem unrelated yet all are intimately connected. This eyewitness account does more to explain the hell that bred al-Qaeda and other Islamist terrorists than do ponderous works by historians, theologians, and other outsiders. Beautifully written, Mary Anne Weaver's narrative is part Paul Theroux travelogue, part Truman Capote celebfest, and part Bernard Lewis study of the Middle East. Weaver enlightens and informs the reader on a human level that is sorely missing elsewhere.<br />Pakistan: In the Shadow of Jihad and Afghanistan is subtle and powerful at the same time. A territorial leader fears his isolated province may erupt into  violence. \\"The price of a bullet is one rupee; the price of an egg is two rupees,\\" he explains to Weaver. Newly elected Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto asks to join Pakistan's president at prayers. He declines because she is a woman. The relationship between the two soon-to-be-ex-leaders couldn't be better explained. Pakistani wildlife authorities assist wealthy Arab sheihks in the decimation of the local houbarb bustard population. In an essay obstensibly about billionaires who roam the desert with falcons in Mercedes in search of their prey, it becomes apparent Saudi Arabia has gladly financed many unseemly aspects of Pakistani society. Kashmiris find themselves flooded with ISI-inspired Islamic nationalists although the people in that troubled province only want a multi-ethnic state, a native explains. The CIA supplies Osama bin Laden and the other mujahideen against the Soviets although there is a 30 to 50 percent \\"slippage\\" in arms. The word \\"slippage\\" seems more appropriate to clothing lost to shoplifters than to shoulder-held surface to air missiles that now menace commercial airlines.<br />Weaver covers the jihad against the Soviets in Afghanistan and chronicles the present day war against al-Qaeda. Both conflicts originated in Pakistan, fueled by indigenous Islamist hatred and funded by Saudi money (which raises the question, \\"with friends like these....\\"). Along the way Weaver meets the territorial leaders, mullahs, prime ministers, and everyday citizens who transform Pakistan from a bastion of nationalistic fervor into a state sponsor of religious terrorism (and perhaps the most dangerous nuclear power on the planet). How any American, let alone a woman, bagged as many interviews as Weaver did, and how she navigated some of the most dangerous territory in this misogynistic land, remains a mystery. Weaver acts as if her adventures in the darkest reaches of Pakistan were the most natural travels imaginable, and perhaps for her they were.<br />Her journeys certainly serve the reader well.<br />I highly recommend this book whether you want to enjoy some brilliant writing or learn more about Pakistan and terrorism. As Weaver demonstrates, the two don't have to be mutually exclusive.	2002-12-04
US	35497203	R3GBBDXDHPPKNQ	0786000570	414993273	Terrorism	Books	2	1	1	N	N	An index more than a book	Terrorism by John Pynchon Holms and Tom Burke is useful to only two groups: readers who know absolutely nothing about the subject, and those familiar with the topic who need a quick index. The former group will get a shallow but broad introduction to terrorism, the latter a reader-friendly glossary of names, terms, and dates.<br />As an aside, this book originally was published in 1994. After September 11, 2001, in another egregious example of exploitation of the tragedy, the opening chapter was revised and dedicated to the terrorist attacks on Washington, New York and over the skies of Pennsylvania. The September 11th timeline, like the book as whole, is a comprehensive but contains nothing new.	2002-12-03
US	35497203	R3EQPAM4TO6YH3	038097763X	482873508	America Afire: Jefferson, Adams, and the Revolutionary Election of 1800	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The more things change	A sex scandal has rocked the nation's capitol. A campaign turns negative and vicious. In the midst of all the turmoil,  the outcome of a hotly contested presidential election remains in doubt for weeks.<br />Is it the year 2000? No, it is 1800.<br />With a historian's erudition and a novelist's power to mesmerize,  Bernard A. Weisberger's examination of the early days of the Republic can captivate either the casual reader or a scholar. America Afire: Jefferson, Adams and the Revolutionary Election of 1800 is as much about the foibles and strengths of the United States' founders than it is about a presidential contest. Weisberger has a keen appreciation for how the absurd and seemingly mundane events shape the destiny of a nation. In the book's opening scene President John Adams hikes out of town under the cover of darkness before the person who defeated him, Thomas Jefferson, is sworn into office. Whether a petulant display or a gracious act Adams sets the precedent for the peaceful transition of power. Weisberger describes how similar actions by George Washington, Aaron Burr, Alexander Hamilton, and other great men may seem trivial at the time but come to forever define the United States. Weisberger can become a bit effusive about Jefferson (his use of exclamation points in the final chapter is a bit extravagant) but he gives the reader a rounded portrait of these towering figures. Given the praise heaped on Adams since he began to receive long overdue attention, Weisberger reveals another side to the nation's second president that is considerably darker than the one now in vogue.<br />The competing philosophies of American government embodied in Jefferson and Adams continue to form the contour of the nation's politics. In many ways Weisberger's account of events that took place 200 years ago is as important as the morning newspaper. As the United States once again debates the restriction of civil liberties in a time of war and rumors of war, the issues explored inAmerica Afire resonate today.	2002-12-02
US	35497203	R13IAT290JWZ97	0142001295	496466561	Better Day Coming: Blacks and Equality, 1890-2000	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Neither human progress nor Fairclough take a straight path	Societal evolution seldom travels a straight path. As Professor Adam Fairclough succinctly titles one chapter of Better Day Coming: Blacks and Equality 1890-1910, human progress tends to be \\"two steps forward, one step backward\\". Several decades after the book opens with the collapse of Reconstruction, American blacks are in a worse condition than they were immediately after the Civil War. The title seems almost ironic as segregation grows stronger and black life becomes harsher between the world wars.<br />However, this book doesn't claim to be a sociological study but a historical account of 110 years. In that sense it falls short.<br />Better Day Coming's greatest weakness is its attempt to cover the period of 1890-2000. The last chapter opens immediately after the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., but apparently the author thinks little of import followed the civil rights leader's murder. The years between 1968 and 2000 are covered in a sketchy 14 pages that fail to mention prominent figures such as the Rev. Al Sharpton, and Fairclough dances around current issues relevant to the black community. Rodney King gets more mention than Jesse Jackson. The author is an educator and the last chapter resembles a textbook that acknowledges the latter material is insignificant and probably won't be covered on the final exam. Better Days Coming would have been much stronger if it focused only on the period between Reconstruction and the death of Dr. King.<br />Nonetheless, Professor Fairclough is a crisp writer. Although the problem noted above (along with one superfluous chapter that inexplicably rehashes previous material) hurts this book, it has strengths. <br />Better Day Coming predictably chronicles the lives of such prominent luminaries as Ida Wells, Booker T. Washington, W.E.B DuBois, Marcus Garvey, Dr. King, and Malcolm X.  Yet it pays homage to several lesser know figures: Stanley Levinson, a brilliant and realistic white businessman; Fannie Lou Hamer, who led the charge for civil rights in Mississippi; and A. Philip Randolph, the socialist leader who proved a great inspiration to so many in the civil rights movement. <br />Fairclough also excels in his exploration of areas not normally covered in similar introductory works such as the vital role the United States Communist Party played in the Thirties. The author brings a fresh viewpoint to Garvey's black nationalism and Booker T. Washington's accomodationism, both of which have been widely discredited in recent years. Fairclough concludes these men and their movements were largely positive forces in black history. The book also expands on familiar areas, such as the racism of J. Edgar Hoover, who started his campaign against civil rights as a Bureau of Investigation agent assigned to investigate Garvey in 1919---more than 40 years before he began his dogged pursuit of Dr. King.<br />Better Day Coming is an excellent book for a reader who doesn't know much about the subject matter, and it provides details and fresh perspectives to those readers who study or were involved with the civil rights campaign. Despite its flaws, this is a solid account of one of the most important movements in American history.	2002-11-27
US	35497203	RCRA89VW7BIMA	0761535810	405735166	Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Remarkable  treatise has many flaws but sparkles at times	You don't have to see the author's name to guess a Russian emigre wrote Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America. Yossef Bodansky endlessly and repetitively describes minor events and characters. On the postive side, portions read like a sparkling essay. Because Bodansky doesn't exercise much discretion is editing, you get voluminous details about Islamic terrorists, the historical impulses that created al-Qaeda, and how these Muslim radicals view themselves and the \\"infidel.\\" The result of this sometimes plodding but often riveting treatise is a great introduction into the murky and twisted world of Islamic terror.<br />The book isn't a biography of Osama bin Laden, either. It is a history of al-Qaeda. Bin Laden is the central figure but hardly the exclusive focus in the terror organization Bodansky chronicles. <br />Osama bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America was published prior to the U.S.S. Cole attack and long before September 11th. The book could be described as dated yet it reveals great prescience. Bodansky sounds many warnings about al-Qaeda activity and support in Yemen, the nation where the Cole atrocity later took place. Bodanksy also predicted the United States would suffer \\"spectacular attacks,\\" a term we now all painfully know. These forewarnings of terror are, in retrospect, amazing. Yet Bodansky undermines his credibility at times with outrageous assertions like the claim that TWA Flight 800 was brought down by a terrorist bomb. He also portrays an al-Qaeda that is much braver and more intelligent than recent events would indicate.<br />The strongest aspect of this book is how it follows bin Laden's conversion and those of a like mind from warrior to terrorist. After these religious zealots defeat the Soviet Empire in Afghanistan, bin Laden and al-Qaeda go on to engage in messicanic terror campaigns in other Islamic lands. Bodansky explains how the United States and the West incorrectly downplayed Serbian claims of al-Qaeda infiltration of Bosnia and Kosovo. The author makes it apparent that Russia's fight against the Chechens is hardly a David vs. Goliath morality tale. As Bodansky describes it, al-Qaeda found an early ally in and eventually fell out with Saddam Hussein (bin Laden's rocky relationship with the Iraqi dictator is remarkably similar to the one Abu Nidal experienced as recounted a decade ago in Abu Nidal: A Gun for Hire by Patrick Seale). Other benefactors like Iran find bin Laden equally useful and frustrating. As al-Qaeda becomes bolder in its initial confrontations with the United States in the Horn of Africa, it seems all too obvious in hindsight that the terror group would come to American shores to kill innocents.<br />You won't know much more about bin Laden the man than you probably do now if you read this book, but you will have many more details about al-Qaeda the organization and insights into the terrorists who murder and maim in its name.	2002-11-26
US	35497203	R1X002IC0UGTYC	0061065188	238468391	American Terrorist: Timothy McVeigh & the Tragedy at Oklahoma City	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Journalistic tour de force	The road from Ruby Ridge to Oklahoma City is littered with the bodies of innocents. A few were gunned down by federal agents, but the vast majority were murdered by anti-government zealot Timothy McVeigh, the twisted subject of this journalistic tour de force. The reportage in American Terrorist: Timothy McVeigh and the Tragedy at Oklahoma City is among the finest ever published. The authors remind us that at its root terrorism is a crime, and never lose sight of the indiscriminate killing of men, women and children in Oklahoma. Yet Lou Michel and Dan Herbeck present a compelling portrait of McVeigh and approach in an even-handed manner the excesses of federal law enforcement that encouraged a reluctant war hero to massacre his fellow citizens. <br />Meticulous research and details about McVeigh's family life, miitary service, and his final descent into darkness tell us more about the man than even the tortured explanations offered by the killer himself. Yossef Bodansky, author of Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America, probably was or would be surprised to learn that years before Osama claimed innocent American civilians were legitimate targets because they pay taxes, McVeigh gave a similar rationale for the murder of the federal employees at the Murrah Building. McVeigh's comparison of the government workers with fictional Death Star clerks in the movie Star Wars is as bizarre a justification for mass murder as any offered to date by bin Laden.<br />The authors present facts that can allow a reader to put the massacre into historical context. Three passages in the book leap out. The first is a comment by former FBI profiler Clint Van Zandt that the \\"war\\" that started at Ruby Ridge between zealous law enforcement and extreme libertarians met its turning point at Oklahoma City. The next is the almost astonishing admission by President Bill Clinton that he should have stopped the federal action at Waco, which is viewed on television by a cheering McVeigh while he awaits the death penalty. The third highpoint appears in the final chapter. McVeigh is housed at the same maximum security prison with Ramzi Yousef, the Muslim nutcase who bombed the World Trade Center the first time, and with Theodore Kaczynksi, another native-born bomber who maimed and killed his fellow citizens. Yousef pleads with the atheist McVeigh to convert to Islam, and Kaczynksi describes the Oklahoma City bomber as a person with excellent social skills and reveals a degree of envy of his fellow American terrorist. These vignettes are better than fiction, and almost support a prominent Harvard professor's recent thesis that \\"terrorism works\\".<br />The human element is always just beneath the surface in American Terrorist. The stark horror inflicted on the people of Oklahoma and America is made vivid by the survivors and the families of the dead. McVeigh's father is a tragic, sympathetic man who seems to have lived under a dark cloud his entire adult life. Even McVeigh, who intentionally took the lives of almost 200 people, comes across as much more than the evil act that forever will be associated with him.<br />As noted above, the authors can't and won't answer the question \\"why?\\" But they end the book with that one-word question, and even if McVeigh had not become the first American executed under the federal death penalty statute in modern time he could never have answered it himself. <br />It's a futile query as old as evil itself.	2002-11-25
US	35497203	R2A5YQH7GO610J	0091753279	583784382	Abu Nidal: a gun for hire	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Abu Nidal's mysterious death appropos	Abu Nidal purportedly committed suicide in Baghdad a few months ago by shooting himself in the head a few times. As English author Patrick Seale probably would agree, Nidal's mysterious death was appropos of a murky life given to terrorism for profit from whatever financial source was available.<br />Abu Nidal: A Gun for Hire has many of the characteristics American readers find so grating about British journalism. Among these are the author's penchant for injecting himself into the story and then indulging in a baseless conspiracy theory which requires the writer to make every fact fit his premise (in this case, a far-fetched theory that Nidal worked for the Mossad). All that said, this book probably is more relevant in the aftermath of September 11th than it was when published a decade ago. The author gives textured explanations for the root causes of terrorism, and provides the mechanics of how these horrific crimes actually are implemented.<br />Seale also gives us a look into the sad history of Abu Nidal and other Palestinians who suffered at the hands of Israeli settlers. He follows Nidal as he evolves from a young expatriate into the recipient of patronage from the likes of Saddam Hussein, and finally into a quasi-businessman who becomes a freelance killer for profit. As an interesting aside, Nidal had been expelled from Iraq at the time this book was written. The terrorist Seale portrays is essentially a cowardly, bigoted man who loves money and whiskey more than radical politics and the Palestinian cause. In fact, as his career gains momentum Nidal murders far more Palestinians than he does Israelis and other Westerners. To underscore his actual motives, in one grimly amusing vignette Nidal has an in-law slain to settle a business dispute.<br />Abu Nidal: A Gun for Hire was published shortly before serial killers, terrorists and other criminals became media darlings and topics of the talk show circuit. It is interesting to read a relatively recent book that required the author to gather actual facts rather than rely on the self-serving declarations of his subject matter. Even with all its flaws, Seale's book is a valuable tool to understanding terrorism.at required the author to gather actual facts rather than rely on the self-serving declarations of his subject matter. Even with all its flaws, Seale's book is a valuable tool to understanding terrorism.	2002-11-25
US	35497203	R2OPY3K5762NWO	0743202767	216584809	Half-Moon and Empty Stars (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	2	1	8	N	N	If bad writing is made a crime, Spence can represent himself	Every cliche imaginable is pasted together in this horrible first novel. If uber-lawyer Gerry Spence had dealt with things as they really are, instead of how he would like them to be, this third-rate book could have been second-rate. For example, Spence realizes more than anyone that most of his clients are guilty, so if he wanted to explore the ethical dimensions of the death penalty as he does here, avoidance of the \\"innocent man dying\\" myth would have been a plus. But to quibble with any one aspect of this [weak] attempt at fiction is to imply it could have been saved; it clearly was beyond repair.<br />The only reason Spence's first novel gets two stars instead of one is his colorful, textured description of the New West. Stick to reality, Gerry. From Freedom to Slavery was a masterpiece, and I hope you go back to what you know and do best.	2002-11-22
US	35497203	R1JL5NGW2E2JRL	0684853442	842098911	Brother Against Brother: Violence and Extremism in Israeli Politics from Altalena to the Rabin Assassination	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Sprinzak explains Israeli extremism to the world	Political violence roiled the Jewish state from its beginning, and Ehud Sprinzak gives context to today's turmoil in Brother against Brother: Violence and Extremism in Israeli Politics from Altalena to the Rabin Assassination. <br />Sprinzak is a partisan who believes in Labor's two-state solution to the Palestinian question. Nonetheless, his portraits of the Right's early leaders, particularly Begin, often are quite flattering. Even Rabin's assassin is examined in an objective, even-handed way; the portrayal is similar to the treatment of Timothy McVeigh in American Terrorist. <br />Sprinzak gives a lot of insight into the early struggle for the Jewish state and the excesses that fed the Palestinian hatred that continues to fester. Massacres of Arab villagers at the hands of Jews, and other atrocities committed by Israel's founders, are laid bare. Sprinzak makes the case that the 1967 War both united the country and helped seal the political divide between those who seek accomodation with the Arabs and those who view peace as illusory. Rabin's assassination is seen not as an aberration but a predictable response by the opposition.<br />Like many of his countrymen, the author exudes a combination of pride and angst over the history and future of Israel. The Altalena incident, in which the Right's attempt to arm its supporters was foiled by violence at the hands of the Laborites, sets the stage and never seems far removed from what is happening 50 years later.<br />This is a tremendous, instructive book that never becomes a diatribe despite the author's political leanings.	2002-11-22
US	35497203	R3MYC3J57YMFL2	0679401288	191149080	Kiss the Hand You Cannot Bite: The Rise and Fall of the Ceausescus	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The banality of evil, or how much did you get for your soul?	The most chilling aspect of Kiss the Hand You Cannot Bite: The Rise and Fall of the Ceausescus is the small price the couples' sycophants exact for their souls. <br />Edward Behr chronicles scientists, academicians, party functionaries, intellectuals, physicians, lawyers, and others who gladly que up to kiss the hands and other body parts of the first couple of the communist dictatorship of Romania. In exchange for their blind loyalty, these luminaries get little more than a pat on the head and a grip-and-grin photograph with their semi-literate leaders. As Behr notes, the phrase \\"banality of evil\\" applied particularly well to the Ceausescus. Of all the books written since the collapse of the communist bloc, this one best explains why dictators in Eastern Europe so seldom had to use armed force to remain in power. Material goods---and we are talking K-mart liquidation stuff here---bought the best and brightest in Romania, and physical and spiritual starvation kept the general populace weakened and at bay.<br />By the time the Ceausescus meet their predictable ends, you don't know who to loathe the most, the co-dictators or their willing subjects. Perhaps it is unfair, but the fact that the most abusive elements of the Ceausescus police state remain to govern seems like some sort of Old Testament justice.<br />Behr gives us what we will have to take in lieu of the equivalence of the de-Nazification of Eastern Europe: naked and ugly truth about the people who comprised the communist system.	2002-11-22
US	35497203	R8144G910M4F9	0786226595	409505855	Inventing Al Gore: A Biography	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent account of an enigma	Al Gore recently emerged from \\"mending fences\\" in Tennessee to launch a media-driven national charm offensive that he hopes will land him in the White House in 2004. Even though the former vice president seems more at ease these days as he exchanges barbs with the likes of David Letterman, Gore still comes across as uncomfortable and at times coached (did handlers teach him to laugh?) largely because he is the enigma Bill Turque describes in Inventing Al Gore: A Biography. For those who love and despise the former vice president, and for the vast majority in whom he inspires absolutely no emotion one way or the other, Turque's biography, written before the 2000 election debacle, remains relevant today. After you finish Turque's fair and balanced account of Gore, you will be pumped full of the substantive and trivial and won't be any closer to knowing who the former vice president is than you were in 2000, 1996, 1992, 1988, or last week on Larry King. This in no way detracts from Turque's biography, and if anything proves the author knew his subject is a mystery. Neither David Maraniss nor anyone else has been able to unravel this complex politician, and unlike Turque they didn't have the insight to know it is impossible.	2002-11-20
US	35497203	R2BYJJ9F3Q9BVV	0451202708	759016191	Pan Am 103: The Bombing, the Betrayals, and a Bereaved Family's Search for Justice	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Bitterness, truth and elusive justice	By the time you finish this book, you will know for certain that Susan Cohen and Daniel Cohen are not people you would want to have as dinner guests. Nonetheless, you will tolerate and even admire the couple's bitterness, their relentless quest to find the truth about the terrorist bombing that brought down their daughter's plane, and how their elusive search for justice sometimes causes them to act in a manner that contorts them into single-minded monsters.<br />I almost refused to read this book because it has the format of a creative writing class project, narrated from the perspectives of the mother and father, who alternate chapters. Yet several pages into the book I was surprised to find this technique effective and not in the least cloying. The end result is the couple's late daughter, Theo, is given a human face. The authors don't always have the same take on events, which is interesting, yet when they both arrive at similar conclusions it comes across as the truth. The couple tends to find the same individuals (Senator Ted Kennedy and Ross Perot spring to mind) admirable and share a loathing of the similar people great and small.<br />May the Cohens eventually find peace; it is painfully apparent they never will find justice, let alone truth, and most of all the psychobabble known as \\"closure.\\"	2002-11-19
US	35497203	R1P1HLXBK124ZN	0684873028	704115192	Hillary's Turn: Inside Her Improbable, Victorious Senate Campaign	Books	1	3	11	N	N	Love Hillary  or hate her, this book is rancid	With friends like Michael Tomasky, Hillary Rodham Clinton doesn't need enemies---and God knows she has them, as we learn in excruciating detail in another book written by another reporter who should stick to quick, easily edited copy.<br />Tomasky's focus on the New York press' reportage and not the subject at hand is perhaps the biggest shortcoming in Hillary's Turn. Then again, the media coverage appears to be the only aspect of the 2000 campaign that he grasped. The author's fawning, insipid descriptions of the candidate, and his one-dimensional attacks on her opponents, makes for the mirror image of an anti-Clinton diatribe, albeit more poorly written than most of those wretched screeds. Tomasky even refers to Jerry Oppeheimer's fluffy but largely sympathetic State of a Union as a hatchet job, which probably says more than will I or anyone else who reviews this pathetic \\"I was there\\" vanity project.<br />Tomasky strikes me as one of those reporters whose editor accedes to demands that the copy not be changed so the public (and, importantly, management) can see how pathetic the writing really is.	2002-11-19
US	35497203	RAQHYH4QGHRBP	0060193921	918268191	State of a Union: Inside the Complex Marriage of Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Not a hatchet job	I first saw this book referenced in Michael Tomasky's Hillary's Turn. Tomasky described this book as a hatchet job. State of a Union is far from a negative attack on the former First Couple, and actually paints a more sympathetic portrait of the Clintons than their most fawning sycophants usually do. State of a Union is little more than fluff but gives a good overview of a complex and nuanced political partnership. Jerry Oppenheimer manages to give childhood and marital details without dabbling in pure psychobabble, but this is a beach book and not history---and doesn't pretend to be anything else.	2002-11-18
US	35497203	R3E1DCLGFYSZRX	0684871599	110011583	Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Germs falls apart when it ceases to be infotainment	Since September 11th, many readers have been forced to get up to speed on topics as diverse as radical Islam and biological weapons. Germs is helpful with the latter, although it can't quite decide whether to be entertainment or scholarly. The first half is a good read because it resembles the best of the true crime genre; after the authors plunge into the Gulf War and the policy implications of biological warfare it gets a little too heavy for an introductory book.	2002-11-18
