US	35509648	R26Y7GXDN3LMXR	1593372868	643242170	Sacred Waters: Stories Of Healing, Purification, And Renewal	Books	4	4	4	N	N	INSPIRED BY NATURE	SACRED WATERS - Stories of Healing, Cleansing, and Renewal: Collected and edited by Maril Crabtree, this book has scores of personal stories about experiences with water. Written by numerous writers, the book tells of how water in nature has guided the writers to a deeper understanding of themselves and their place in life. From the gentle rocking waters of the womb to the wells of water from which we survive to various places beside or in earth's bodies of water to rivers that carry the creamated remains of loved ones, water is our life, not only physically but also emotionally and spiritually. These writers have revealed to the reader widely varied, personal, transformative experiences .Water had inspired in their lives. The stories are inspiring, uplifting, and calming...just as is water. A good book to inspire meditation and renewal.	2005-10-02
US	35509648	R3PPYKHO135XCR	0805432620	50353216	Breaking the Perfect 10	Books	4	9	9	N	N	With God's Help Recovery from Sex Addiction	Breaking The Perfect 10 by  Tracy Lindsey Melchior with Susan Wales is the autobiography of a young woman who was abandoned many times in childhood and grew up feeling unloved and unprotected. Tracy, who later became a daytime TV star of the Bold and the Beautiful, One Life to Live, and Sunset Beach, details many of the troubles of her childhood and teen years and describes how she learned to seek love in all the wrong places and became a relationship addict. Her book is about the triumph she achieved over her derelict life when she became a Christian and some friends walked her through the Bible. She shares her experiences in the hope of helping others who may have similar problems or lifestyles. The book is well written.	2005-10-02
US	35509648	R24Z7T5X5D1WI7	1575421674	615692200	100 Things Guys Need to Know	Books	5	23	24	N	N	NECESSARY GUIDE FOR PRE-TEEN BOYS	Bill Zimmerman, the author, was twice nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for his writings for young people about current events and issues they face.  He is former editor of Newsday, the nation's largest newspaper, and author of over a dozen books. 100 Things Guys Need To Know is an EXCELLENT cartoon styled book for pre-adolescent and adolescent boys to help them cope with the changes in their bodies, emotions, and relationships in a positive way. Nothing is more important than helping a youth know that making wise choices amidst peer pressure and internal quandaries is a good thing. This book is the perfect tool to help any boy (ages 9 - 13) thrive in his teen years and understand what is happening to himself internally and physically as well as socially. The book teaches good skills and positive choices and healthy habits in six categories: Self, Body and Mind, Family, School, Relationships, Future. I cannot recommend this book highly enough! It is written to the youngster himself and is easy enough to understand, and the cartoons help the boy identify with situations common to every teen. The book is also an excellent one to read with your children to open conversation about issues you may not know he is dealing with at school or other areas of his life. A WONDERFUL book to give any boy you know, love, and want to make wise choices in order to navigate the turbulent teen years successfully and create a happy, future for himself. Click here to purchase.	2005-10-02
US	35509648	RBID3MCES4VBH	1420800302	241480688	Seed's Sketchy Relationship Theories - A Guide to the Perils of Dating: (How Not To Become A Bar Regular)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Funky and Fun Ways to Learn How to be Happy	Seed's Sketchy Relationship Theories - A Guide to the Perils of Dating : (How Not To Become A Bar Regular)Penned By: The Seed & German Seed. This book on relationships in today's dating world is totally \\"off the wall\\" but great fun to read, although often gramatically and politically incorrect and full of foul-mouthed expletives. It is definitely not for the  judgemental reader. However, the authors, both men who still refuse to reveal their identy (for reasons obvious when you read the book) hit the nail on the head with what are the problems in today's failing marriage and love relationships and other relationships as well. With total candor and often hilarious situations and comments, they offer solutions for the real world which might work in solving relationship problems: first and foremost, to become a whole person by yourself before you enter a relationship. Relationships do not fix your shortcomings.  The combined wisdom and difficult situations adn experiences of the two authors, one who lives in Canada and the other in Europe, are shared and bared in ways not many have the boldness to write. Often in letter or stream-of-consciousness style, the book rambles some, but overall it is a fun read, and has some sage advice administered in a novel and quirky way!	2005-10-02
US	35509648	R2D4W284QY89RF	1578261457	33313414	The Family Fitness Fun Book: Healthy Living for the Whole Family	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Must for Healthy Family Fun	The Family Fitness Fun Book: Healthy Living for the Whole Family by Rose R. Kennedy is a must for every family book collection. It is a well-organized and indexed guide to playing many types of active games with the goal of fun and fitness for every member of the family. With American children increasingly in danger of obesity and diabetes because of sedentary lifestyles, Rose gets your family into the habit of thinking \\"fun\\" instead of\\"work-out!\\" Detailing many old timey games which require no planning or equipment,she tells the rules of the game in a quick glance chart telling :Indoor or Outdoor, Ages Appropriate, Number of Players, Suitable Weather, Time Required, Parental Supervision needed, and Intensity Level.  She tells for each game what you need, how to set up, how to play, and the Rules. There are games for all ages, for indoor and outdoor, for small and large groups, Super-Quick, Rainy Days, Snow Fun, Fun for One, Parties, etc. Kennedy explains how to determine heart rate and fitness levels and to set new goals for your family by incorporating daily movement into your activities just for fun and togetherness. The adorable black and white photos of laughing children throughout the book make the games look enticing. The book is a MUST!	2005-10-02
US	35509648	R2DB2DEGHT1GRT	0972424075	619887657	Paris Underground	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great conversation piece for your coffee table	Paris Underground By Caroline Archer with photos by Alexandre Parre is a book I wish had been published before my most recent trip to Paris, France.  Little known to the average citizen of or visitor to Paris, the city was built over the quarries from which stone for the buildings was cut. As the city grew, so did the caverns beneath it until on one fateful day during the reign of King Louis XVI  on Dec. 17, 1774, an entire street (near today's Place Denfert-Rochereau )collapsed into the abyss.  The King's council to investigate was formed and the finding were so alarming that within three years architects and inspectors set about building reinforcements in the form of inspection galleries, which ultimately (by the mid 1930's) resulted in 177 miles of underground tunnels within these quarries to make the city safe. Although entering these underground passages is forbidden except with express permission, for three centuries artists, musicians, writers, performers, and curious, daring cataphyles have found the lure into the depths irresistable and have made their way through clandestined passages. Through the centuries, because everyone needed to mark his or her way in order not to be lost, and because the bare walls beckoned to be decorated, the passages and quarries became an underground, daring art gallery.  This book incorporates a remarkable attempt to catalogue the surreptitious art found beneath one of Europe's most thriving cities of the arts.  The historic events, since the earliest graffiti in 1671, have been charted or commemorated, pictured, or commented upon, with drawings, writings, paintings, sculpture, and music created within the labyrinth. While most is primitive art \\"just for the fun of it,\\" some is quite skilled and reveals great talent. For three centuries the underground has been the location for secret love affairs, hiding criminals, storing beer and champagne, and many other illegal activities, while also providing the stone canvas and dark inspiration for hundreds of artists and performers of all kinds. You'll want to read and study the photographs in this fascinating book.piration for hundreds of artists and performers of all kinds. You'll want to read and study the photographs in this fascinating book.	2005-08-31
US	35509648	R2SIG8J9LQVZGQ	9628783475	794576439	Pursuing a Dream: A Wandering Executive's Journey Into Indonesia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unusual Travels	Pursuing A Dream \\" A Wandering Executive's Journeys Into Indonesia\\" By James R. Nelon:  For the curious armchair traveler who likes to encounter strange cultures that are far removed from the norm of our standard Western Culture, James R. Nelon's \\"Pursuing A Dream\\" is a good read. Nelon, who took off a year from the corporate rat race of the business and computer world, gives us a book of detailed descriptions and intimate photography of village life in remote areas of Indonesia. Nelon does a wonderful job of letting the reader see through his descriptions and photos just how different life can be on this planet. From his presence at a festival and burial ceremony in the village of Rantepao, Tana Toraja, to observing the life around Lake Tempe in Sulawesi, to a trip to the mystic Seram Island, to life in a longhouse in West Kalimantan, Nelon emerses the reader in the lives of Indonesians that are far removed from the lifestyles of  today's tourists. His photos of the people are particularly striking and give a face to the culture being described. As a reader, I found myself wishing each picture had been placed in the book beside the descriptive paragraphs; however, today's publishing costs may have forced the photos to their placement in two groups of numbered pictures. Nelon's description is excellent but the reader will find some lack of transition between events or places, as the book is more journalizing than well connected narration. Readers will also want a map of Indonesia and Asia while reading if they are not familiar with that part of the world. Also, I was confused by the insertion of the narrations of the death of his dog Barclay, his approach and relationship to his religious background, and his grandmother. All of these were well written pieces but I couldn't follow their connection to the Indonesian experience. But all in all the book is a valuable look into a faraway culture that seems not of our times	2005-08-31
US	35509648	R19PVWV9WMDUL2	1401902359	225540389	Angel Medicine	Books	3	37	39	N	N	Healing Without Meds	Angel Medicine \\"How To Heal the Body and Mind With the Help of the Angels\\" by Doreen Virtue, Ph. D., is another of the prolific author's metaphysical adventures in healing.  She is from a family of healers with much experience of faith healing. On a recent trip to Santorini Island in Greece she experienced contact with a group of angels called the \\"Angels of Atlantis\\" and was transmitted many of their healing formulas and ancient Atlantean knowledge about the healing properties of love and light.  The book details her metaphysical and physical experiences in Santorini, the volcanic island which many believe is the location of the ancient Atlantis. Although, most readers will find her fantastic mystical experiences to be beyond belief (and to many a bit wacky), the author has many case histories of healings according to the angelic directions. Doreen also gives the reader detailed instructions of how to entreat angelic intervention in many kinds of healing: from finances and automobiles to physical and emotional ills of people and pets. At the end of the book you'll find a very interesting guide to the use of color and crystals for healing. A little too fantastic or simplistic for most people in our Western society, the methods detailed here could be the common medical practices of past or future civilizations	2005-08-31
US	35509648	R9XYTIB37KTT2	073870573X	119303010	Magick of Reiki: Focused Energy for Healing, Ritual, & Spiritual Development	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A MUST for anyone interested in alternative healing	The Magick of Reiki by Christopher Penczak is a wonderful book for people interested in alternative healing.  The author is skilled in the Magick, which he describes as \\"partnering with the universe to create change\\" and details ways it is used, called by other terms, in all the great world religions.  Penczak is also a deeply spiritual person whose skills as a Master of Reiki are well-known.  In this book he shows the novice who is serious about learning the art and faith of laying on of hands for healing purposes, how to learn the skills and disciplines required. Christopher is both a practitioner and teacher of reiki and draws from his many years of experiences of healing in both this field and magick.  His methods go back to the beginning of reiki healing as taught in Japan, and he details not only the disciplines but also the secret symbols that must be learned. With many examples of healing and demonstrating great faith and humility, he teaches in the simplest terms so that anyone dedicated to the practice can learn how to become the empty vessel through which God works for healing beyond anything understood by science. The book is excellent!	2005-08-31
US	35509648	RDJQAY0WZ00BQ	1889242217	373308129	A Year of Sundays: Taking the Plunge and (Our Cat) to Explore Europe	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Very Unique Travel Book:  Fascinating!	A YEAR OF SUNDAYS by Edward G. Webster is a must read for not only those who are planning to strike out on an extended stay in a foreign country but also for those who have imagined striking out on their own but never really thought it could be a possibility. Ed relates his year long journey through Europe with his wife Marguerite and cat Felicia from Paris to the Netherlands, Brittany, Austria, Italy, Greece, and Spain in a most informative and entertaining way. The reader quickly finds the Webster's adventure to have several uncommon aspects: traveling with a pet in Europe, staying within a budget of $100 per day on lodging, food and entertainment for the whole year abroad, and, most important, the fact that Marguerite is blind. Marguerite's blindness adds a dimension to the book that you will not find in any other book on travel. The interaction between Marguerite, Ed, and Felicia to communicate what they experience in each their own way makes the reader aware of new ways to grasp the essence of travel through senses and feelings not often used by the average traveler. This all seems to heighten and expand aspects of the places visited and create a new awareness of other ways to experience life in another country or culture. Just as Ed describes how he closes his eyes during a concert at Notre Dame Cathedral so that he does not just see and hear the concert in a beautiful cathedral but feels as Marguerite feels the sound fill the cathedral and echo off the stone pillars, bringing the building to life and filling the evening \\"with so much more than just sound.\\" The senses of sound, smell, touch, taste become additives to the travel adventure, and the traveler who relies mainly on what they are seeing is more handicapped in grasping the essence of the place than Marguerite without her sight. The book also gives the reader descriptions of out of the way places that have unique character in their surroundings, food, and citizens. The reader can not help wanting to taste the delicious pannenkoekens (pancakes) of Holland after Ed's narration or walk along the cliffs of Brittany experiencing the smells and sounds of the ocean clashing with the land or taste the wine, bread, cheese, olives, and lasagna served up by the owner of a little grocery in Costafabbri, Italy. But the book also gives a realistic look at the downside of traveling for a long time on one's own in a foreign country. The book relates those periods where loneliness sets in because of not speaking the language and longing for contact with family and friends as well as not knowing what lies ahead when they move to another country. The reader can not help but realize the importance of having people and animals by your side that you love at times like this. I found I could not help but be pulled along vicariously with the Webster's year of Sundays throughout Europe. The couple's love for each other, Felicia their cat, world culture, and life comes through loud and clear. Though Ed is the writer, the essence of this book is enhanced by the Marguerite's insights and feelings. Telling themselves that they were right to seize the day and take off on the year long trip, Ed and Marguerite toast Ed's dad saying, \\"If he hadn't died young, I might not have been smart enough to take the year off in the first place\\", and then ending with \\"And to celebrating life!\\", which is what their book is all about.ste the delicious pannenkoekens (pancakes) of Holland after Ed's narration or walk along the cliffs of Brittany experiencing the smells and sounds of the ocean clashing with the land or taste the wine, bread, cheese, olives, and lasagna served up by the owner of a little grocery in Costafabbri, Italy. But the book also gives a realistic look at the downside of traveling for a long time on one's own in a foreign country. The book relates those periods where loneliness sets in because of not speaking the language and longing for contact with family and friends as well as not knowing what lies ahead when they move to another country. The reader can not help but realize the importance of having people and animals by your side that you love at times like this. I found I could not help but be pulled along vicariously with the Webster's year of Sundays throughout Europe. The couple's love for each other, Felicia their cat, world culture, and life comes through loud and clear. Though Ed is the writer, the essence of this book is enhanced by the Marguerite's insights and feelings. Telling themselves that they were right to seize the day and take off on the year long trip, Ed and Marguerite toast Ed's dad saying, \\"If he hadn't died young, I might not have been smart enough to take the year off in the first place\\", and then ending with \\"And to celebrating life!\\", which is what their book is all about.	2005-06-24
US	35509648	RTA7G88A8CP8O	0595335225	327646229	Worth The Room: An Autobiography of Survival and Service	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Poignant Read	WORTH THE ROOM BY REVEREND PAUL LACHLAN PECK, M.Ed., is the touching autobiography of the author, whose mother died when he was just a baby, and he grew up with a cruel step-mother and remote father.  As a youngster he was blamed for everything his step brothers did wrong and was punished instead of these half-siblings.  With warnings never to tell his father, his step-mother beat him with a rubber hose until he had whelps and bruises constantly on his emaciated and sickly body, while screaming at him \\"You're not worth the room you take up on this earth!\\" Overcoming this horrible childhood, which included sexual abuse from his step-mother, the author was able, with the help of some kind friends, to get out of the situation and find a meager job to support himself as a young teen, although he still had to send money home to help support his father's family.  He worked his way through college, a loveless marriage of seventeen years, rearing two children, and finally realized and acknowledged that a large part of his misery as an adult  was that he was a closet gay, a fact which he had concealed from even himself. The book chronicles the milestones of his terrible early life, the way he found his freedom and self-worth, and the successful career he had as a fund-raiser, counselor and minister to young people on college campuses, with hundreds he saved from drug abuse and suicide.  Nearing the end of his life, he has written this book in his seventies because when he was young and his aunt learned about what he had suffered, she told him that someday he should write a book to help others and heal hinself.  Worth the Room is worth the read!	2005-06-24
US	35509648	RZU25YRJJCD1E	1401903398	783866879	Everything I've Ever Done That Worked	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Solution for Every problem!	EVERYTHING I'VE EVER DONE THAT WORKED BY Lesley Garner.  This little book contains a mammouth amount of wisdom in tried and true, tested and refined personal formulas!  Lesley does not tell us how to mend a tear in a dress, but has great advice for mending tears in relationships or in your own soul. She does not give recipes for cooking dinner but recipes for happiness. She does not tell how to build a house, but she gives great advice for building a life and making it happy and successful. And best of all, she does it in 60 chapters of two or three pages which can be read in less than five minutes. You can pick up the book anywhere anytime and find something to help you for the day and something to ponder for a long time. It is a great little book of wisdom.	2005-06-24
US	35509648	R2YMEMNOUPI84P	0974577626	158464810	The Art of Fearbusting	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good listening for a walk	THE ART OF FEARBUSTING : SUSAN  JEFFERS has put on CD one of her very first live speeches about conquering fear. She has some excellent ideas that are simple to put into practice and do a very good job of helping stop fear in any situation. The seeds of her continued teachings are all laid out in this short CD, and you have a guided meditation to help make it absorb into your subconscious to continue to help you.  Although I found the CD very helpful, I felt it was far too brief.  Well worth hearing more than once though.	2005-06-24
US	35509648	R2ZHSKSE2DN7FU	0973335807	128966239	Sowerby's Road: Adventures Of A Driven Mind	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wow! What a traveler!	SOWERBY'S ROAD by Garry Sowerby.  What a fun book about many fun and grueling road trips.  Garry Sowerby is in the Guiness Book of World Records for the record time of driving around the world, and for his other amazing road trips. Since the 1970's he has been making these trips and this book chronicles many of his adventures, the people he meets, and the sometimes bizarre situations and places he gets himself into and out of!  It's a fun read, especially if you like to spend time on the road, as we do. The book is not in day by day order, but is better and more interesting for skipping around through the decades and around the world as he remembers various adventures. You'll enjoy the book and only wish, as I did, that the photos were fewer of his vehicle and more of the sights. Really a fun read!	2005-06-05
US	35509648	ROLOHNPY8TXTQ	1401904599	416731910	Ask and It Is Given: Learning to Manifest Your Desires	Books	3	20	24	N	N	A good faith-builder	ASK AND IT IS GIVEN: LEARNING TO MANIFEST YOUR DESIRES by Esther and Jerry Hicks is a marvelous book and so very reassuring. If you have prayed and felt your prayers might not get higher than the ceiling, read this different approach that helps you KNOW your prayers, hopes, and dreams are being answered right now in the very right way. All you must do is really practice faith, just as the Bible and other religious books have always told us. But this puts it in lay language and easy to understand and practice and watch for your own signs that you are loved and protected and your prayers are always heard and answered. A good faith-builder in an unusual way.	2005-06-05
US	35509648	R3MK4TDCD8YTGY	1893732878	965173028	In The Beginning...There Were No Diapers: Laughing and Learning In The First Years Of Fatherhood	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great Gift for any Dad	IN THE BEGINNING THERE WERE NO DIAPERS: LAUGHING AND LEARNING IN THE FIRST YEARS OF FATHERHOOD by Tim Bete is a perfect Father's Day or anytime gift for any father, especially those of pre-schoolers.  It is also the ideal baby gift for expectant or new fathers, and it is usually hard to find something just right for them!  This is a  humorous account of a dad learning to cope with being a father: from diaper changes to taking toddlers to restaurants, to attempting to civilize young monsters, to changing a diaper in an airplane bathroom!  You will be laughing outloud as you identify with these predicaments children of any age can put their dads into.  Of course the author takes poetic license and dramatizes the events to make them even funnier than reality, but any parent who has been in t he situations, and all of us have, will identify with him as his children teach him how to be a father.  Each chapter uses Biblical quotes and principles, but in a very humorous way with odd twists, not preaching, but creating more tongue in cheek laughter. You'll enjoy this one!	2005-06-05
US	35509648	R2NHYZHBGCCV8T	1582294259	520350994	Tight Squeeze (Motherhood Club, Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Light reading for pregnancy	TIGHT SQUEEZE BY DEBBIE DIGIOVANNI is a delightful little novel about the saga of being a mother. Any mother can identify with the specific trials and tribulations of Becca who finds herself pregnant with her fifth child when her first is nearing the end of high school.  Wanting to run away from it all she retreats to her schooldays friend whose footloose and fancy free lifestyle looks so very appealing. Together on an escape vacation they face good and bad memories while planning to look great for their high school reunion.  The novel follows the pregnancy and the mid-life crisis of self doubt which Becca faces as she grows \\"fatter.\\"  While following her escape dreams she finds her true self and the joy of motherhood with all the trials children of every stage of life bring and is able to face caring for her new baby with the original thrill she felt on her first day of being a mother. Throughout her growth her husband and family are both trying and supportive, as realistic as all families. The book is one every mom will identify with and will bring smiles and tears.<br /><br />This book is a selection of the new Mothehood Club \\"Making a Difference One Kiss at a Time\\" an innovation of Howard Publishing Co	2005-05-03
US	35509648	R7P6P4ZWF5NN	0312329458	589120420	The Entrepreneur's Success Kit: A 5-Step Lesson Plan to Create and Grow Your Own Business	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Excellent Guide for Any Entrepreneur	THE ENTREPRENEUR'S SUCCESS KIT BY KALEIL ISAZA TUZMAN is A 5-Step Lesson Plan to Create and Grow Your Own Business. Written from the experience of an entrepreneur who himself has experience many successes and many failures, this business man tells how to reach your business dreams in a very unusual way.  Unlike the typical MBA platform of making a business plan and setting the goal of making more and more money, Kaleil stresses getting to know yourself as the vital first step.  By exploring your strengths and weaknesses with his guidance you have thorough knowledge of the tools you need to overcome your pitfalls and to complement your strengths.  By taking his peaks and valleys tour you gain the confidence that prevents your pitfalls from destroying your business or you. With this boxed kit, Kaleil instructs the business person with very simple lessons which are on two CD's and augmented with a more in-depth guidebook.  After assuming the progress pose and listening to your inner self under his pleasant voice as guidance, you are equipped to write in your workbook to prepare quick outlines for ultimately making a successful business plan which fits you and your dreams. His encouragement helps you see that true success is not measured in dollars but in satisfaction and fulfillment, without which any business becomes drudgery and is likely doomed to failure.  I found all the principles and exercizes which Kaliel gears toward entrepreneurship to be so helpful that by substituting the word life instead of business or self instead of entrepreneur, this kit is great for gaining success in your whole life scope. I highly recommend this kit for anyone at any stage of life. It is simple enough and contains such profound wisdom it would be a great gift for a high school age youth to learn from in order to assure not only success but joy in life.	2005-05-03
US	35509648	R2T7EJGHCWMDGQ	1582294127	931745515	I'm a Good Mother: Affirmations for the not-so-perfect mom (Motherhood Club)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A real help for every mother	I'm A Good Mother by Gigi Schweikert is a perfect gift for any mom. We mothers can always find a way to blame ourselves for any fault or problem our child has.  This little book is filled with wonderful affirmations to help moms realize they are doing a good job, in spite of conditions and circumstances. The question \\"Am I a Good Mother?\\" is answered resoundingly \\"Yes!\\" in many different encouraging messages, accompanied by an easy to do action step for the day, along with a scripture and prayer.  This book is one that mom will keep going back to day after day when she needs a mental hug!<br /><br />This book is a selection of the new Mothehood Club \\"Making a Difference One Kiss at a Time\\" an innovation of  Howard Publishing Co.	2005-05-03
US	35509648	R2PI9EDERAKREC	1582294143	505538328	The Miracle in a Mother's Hug	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mothers will love this book	THE MIRACLE IN A MOTHER'S HUG BY HELEN BURNS is the perfect Mother's Day or anytime gift for any mother you know! Written from the very personal point of view of a world-renowned female preacher and teacher, it is very touching.  Helen tells of rearing her three girls and the importance of giving love and hugs.  Her writing will touch your heart and spark yhour memories of experiences as a mother or with your own mother.  She makes us aware of how important a mother's presence is instead of presents.  When a child's need for love and appropriate loving touch is met, the child grows up loving and self confident and carries the legacy into the next generation.  If you as a mother ever feel unappreciated pick up this little treasure of a book and see how very important your role is, not only when your child is young but also all through his or her life.  This book is a selection of the new Mothehood Club \\"Making a Difference One Kiss at a Time\\" an innovation of  Howard Publishing Co.	2005-05-03
US	35509648	R8GVBQRKRK050	0517706245	152866145	The Book of Secrets: Unlocking the Hidden Dimensions of Your Life (Chopra, Deepak)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	How To Connect To the Intelligence Guiding the Universe	THE BOOK OF SECRETS :\\"UNLOCKING THE HIDDEN DIMENSIONS OF YOUR LIFE\\" by Deepak Chopra, M.D., is one of Dr. Chopra's most recent books  and one of his best yet.  Dr. Chopra is world renowned as perhaps the foremost leader in mind/body medicine and the creator of The Chopra Center for Well Being in California and is the author of over 35 books. In THE BOOK OF SECRETS the author reveals fifteen secrets of personal transformation to help the reader turn fear, aggression, doubt, insecurity, hatred, and emptiness into their opposites. By learning these secrets of profound wisdom, you will see how your own transformation can and will change the world we live in.  We all live in fear at the edge of terror in today's world, but Dr. Chopra emphasizes this is because we do not perceive who we really are and the power of God, the power for good, within each of us. \\"Who am I?\\" is the crucial question. In Dr. Chopra's words the answer is \\"the key to ending all violence, suffering, and lack in the world.\\"  The key is to experience on a deep level that \\"you are not in the world, the world is in you.\\"  While revealing the importance and the power we each have as creators of our own and the world's outcomes, the author warns about the pitfalls of \\"spiritual materialism,\\"  transferring values that work in the material world to apply to the world of spirit.  When we really get in touch with the invisible domain from which all power and wisdom comes, the realm within each of us, we discover the Intelligence guiding the Universe to which we can connect.  These fifteen secrets teach us how.  One of the most inspiring and personally valuable books you could ever read.	2005-03-30
US	35509648	RVV5F3O86SM0G	0738705926	917656358	You Are Psychic: The Art of Clairvoyant Reading & Healing	Books	4	33	38	N	N	Developing Your Own Clairvoyance	YOU ARE PSYCHIC by Debra Lynn Katz is the only book of its kind which teaches valuable tools for developing clairvoyance, your own psychic ability to see visual information through extrasensory means, a gift which the author firmly believes everyone possesses but few use. Katz has a B.A. in psychology and an M.A. in social work and studied with faith healersa nd psychic surgeons in the Philippines.  She founded the Sedona Psychic Training Center and Sedona Psychic Entertainment in Arizona and is a professional clairvoyant, psychic reader, and healer in California.  The book is well written with explicit and simple directions and practices for anyone to use to discover these hidden talents of seeing beyond the physical scope. Katz explains that she wanted to make available to everyone the techniques by which she was trained to develop her own psychic ability, which was only weakly discernable in the beginning.  Katz firmly believes that everyone has these psychic receptors which only need fine tuning and practice while we learn to trust what we \\"see.\\" A fascinating book for anyone interested in ESP.	2005-03-30
US	35509648	R2VNVTFX1PQDYZ	1932128115	500826374	Cracking the Coconut Code	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Excellent book for Wisdom seekers	CRACKING THE COCONUT CODE By Mary Jo McCabe is a tiny book with an enormous wealth of insights and wisdom for seekers who wish to know themselves and overcome their fear of becoming whole. With her clever code, which she says was given to her by The Guides when in trance, she uses the letters of the word \\"coconut\\" to help the reader remember her seven points to wholeness and self discovery.  When these teachings are implemented through the exercizes she gives we can face our fears and shortcomings and be integrated with our soul, which takes away all the fear of living. The book is easy to \\"digest\\" and very helpful to put into practice, even if you are not open-minded enough to accept her source of information.  She helps people \\"live what you believe and trust yourself. If you concentrate on doing that, life works for, not against, you.\\"Mary Jo is a well-known intuitive interpreter who channels advice from The Guides. She is owner of the McCabe Institute where thousands have received life readings and guidance to hearing their soul's inner voice.	2005-03-30
US	35509648	R2AOJI0W0L1TC	0738516066	434983637	Belton   (SC)  (Images of America)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Profile of Small Town America	IMAGES OF AMERICA: BELTON, SC By Alison Ashley Darby is part of a fascinating series which documents the history of towns throughout the country. Belton, SC, is a small, rural town. This excellent visual history was collected and written by a local historian whose skills at unearthing interesting details make it a very enjoyable read , especially for local residents and visitors and even for those who have never heard of Belton!  For today's readers it is difficult to imagine the influence of a train station on the development of a town. This book helps us appreciate how the rail had an enormous impact on the growth of towns in the last century.  The book has hundreds of photos of \\"then and now,\\" collected from citizens, town records and newspapers, and many sources the author discovered in her quest for this delightful little piece of Americana. A good read to learn about yesteryear in rural America. A perfect gift for any visitor or resident of the area.	2005-03-30
US	35509648	R3KVYQYC0WCKW4	1401901239	320303613	Inner Peace for Busy Women	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Practical Help For Women's Guilt	Inner Peace For Busy Women By Dr. Joan Z. Borysenko is a very  nice surprise in that it is not a lot of advice about how to meditate, although this is one of her prime suggestions as a daily practice for gaining inner peace, but this 2 - CD set is her private sharing of the demons she has faced throughout her career as first a medical student/mother/poor housewife and through the years through divorce, single parenting, and balancing a demanding career as a doctor.  The pain she experienced and the wisdom she gained she shares openly and especially deals with the persistent guilt of the working mother who is told by society that she can have it all, but in reality she is living a juggling act that kills relationships and individuals.  She and her children succeeded through it all and have a loving adult relationship, although her marriage did not. She gives sage advice and encouragement to any woman walking this tight rope. EXCELLENT!	2005-03-30
US	35509648	RMYWSOLYDBYY4	1401905269	567578713	How My Death Saved My Life: And Other Stories On My Journey To Wholeness	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A Personal Journey from Pain to Wholeness	HOW MY DEATH SAVED MY LIFE By Denise Linn is an autobiography of her Journey to Wholeness.  If you are familiar with Linn's other books, you'll enjoy this one which tells of her tragic childhood, her near death experience after being shot, and her triumph in overcoming huge obstacles both physical and psychological.  She explains how she gained her spiritual insights and learned to use her natural talents as a Seer by studying with various healers and Seers around the world while connecting to her Cherokee ancestry and its beliefs.  Her life and her work are most unusual and interesting to read. The book is very encouraging to anyone who has had a tragic childhood to overcome. Cl	2005-03-30
US	35509648	R1R11JNZTHSZG3	1893732819	5708449	Sparks of the Divine: Finding Inspiration in Our Everyday World	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent daily inspirations from everyday life	SPARKS OF THE DIVINE BY DREW LEDER , FINDING INSPIRATION IN OUR EVERYDAY WORLD is a different kind of daily read and a wonderful way to start your day fully inspired to be all you can be and enjoy your everyday events and encounters as inspirations.  Leder takes his inspirations from nature, as do many mystics, but he also finds just as deep inspirations from daily chores or mechanical objects within his environment.  Although a flower, rain, or a beautiful sunset are deep and meaningful experiences that place us in a state of wonder, most of us are so accustomed to seeing these daily gifts as commonplace events, and we don't notice them any more.  Leder teaches us to open to every experience and every sight as if we are babies, or an alien from another planet seeing these things or events for the very first time. To practice this is something familiar to Zen Buddhists but not so easy for the average person in a busy work-a-day world.  However, no one could be busier than the author, who is a full professor of Western and Eastern Philosophy at Loyola University and also has an M.D. from Yale University School of Medicine. He leads workshops, works extensively with prisoners, and has authored many books, and is in demand as a public speaker and for think-tanks. In this wonderful book he'll teach you how to turn dish-washing, football, pens and pencils, merry-go-rounds, smells, whispers, and sex into mystical whisperings of your soul to which you'll learn to pay attention and be present, enhancing all of your daily routines and finding peace and joy throughout your life. An EXCELLENT book! Other reviews are on [...]	2005-02-28
US	35509648	RYF8P4LLWTUNJ	1885535678	146962341	Guide to Getting It On! 4th Edition	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Best Sex Guide Ever	Guide To Getting It On by Paul Joannides and illustrated capriciously by Daerick Gross Sr.  is referred to as the coolest and most informative sex guide in the Universe! With nearly 800 pages it certainly must be the most complete!  If you like Sex In the City TV Show this is the guide for you.  It is written in the contemporary vernacular, straight-forward, using slang instead of medical terminology.  It is definitely aimed at readers under fifty, but older ones (if not offended by the slang and illustrations) will learn a lot also. The book explains in detail and plain talk everything parents didn't dare tell!  And if you order it, it is discretely sent in a plain wrapper so even the postman doesn't know!	2005-02-07
US	35509648	R2UWTYROBRVSJ2	1401904173	356647596	Feeling Fine Affirmations	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Good if you're feeling down	Feeling Fine Affirmations by Louise L. Hay is exactly what it states. If you have a very poor self image or low self confidence, this CD could be a great help, if you are in the right frame of mind to be relaxed and receptive.  She simply and softly speaks positive affirmations to help you learn to have good mental messages to yourself  in order to be healthy physically and emotionally and to reduce stress. However, if you are already a positive and happy person, the CD's could make you feel as if you are learning to decline a verb!	2005-01-31
US	35509648	R1S0HO3MZCGSTN	1401900836	191544039	Slow Down	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Intention, Gratitude, and Action	Slow Down, The Fastest Way To Get Everything You Want by David Essel has seemingly an oxymoron for a title.  However, the author, a Lifestyle Coach, speaker and TV/radio host on motivational programming nationally syndicated, shares his personal experiences of  pushing too hard and working too many hours before discovering how slowing down can actually help you accomplish your goals and realize your dreams much more effectively and rapidly than stressing yourself with overwork and undue demands. He leaned to quiet his ego and realize that accomplishing more did not always equal success. By forming new habits of daily prayer and meditation, regular exercize and strength training, eating and sleeping correctly for good health and energy, he was able to build his life to be far more satisfying to himself and with time and energy to serve others and to form loving relationships. In his book and his coaching he stresses the three keys of manifesting what you want are Intention, Gratitude, and Action. This book is a wealth of lifestyle secrets for success for anyone who wants a do-it-yourself help plan. An excellent and easy book to read and follow.	2005-01-31
US	35509648	R2Q4F5KHGRHNFR	1401901484	980139487	Life Is Short, Wear Your Party Pants	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Loretta will always make you laugh at and with yourself	Life is Short: Wear Your Party Pants by Loretta LaRoche is as delightfully funny as she herself is in her speaking engagements all over the country. Loretta learned early in her painful childhood to be the clown in the family to boost the spirits of the rest of the family members.  Learning to deal with her own problems in a healthy way through laughter, she became an expert in helping others with her Ten Simple Thruths That Lead To An Amazing Life. These truths include resilience, living in the moment, optimism, acceptance, humor, creativity, moderation, responsibility, meaning, and connection. In each chapter she gives fun and resourceful ways to learn how to handle life using these great tools, with laughter being the key ingredient that helps relieve stress. You'll laugh at her and with her and at yourself as you read and practice her simple truths. And life WILL grow less stressful and lots more fun as you learn from her that when you turn your patter of being \\"stressed\\" around you get wonderful \\"desserts!\\"	2005-01-31
US	35509648	R1EHRIBIV6PISA	1401900623	608962067	Dr. Phil Getting Real	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Any marriage will benefit from this	Dr. Phil Getting Real by Dr. Phil McGraw is easy to listen to and filled with excellent advise for becoming a better marriage partner or gaining the confidence to leave an unfixable relationship, and how to tell the difference.  Dr. Phil, who is highly qualified in the field of psychology, has the ability to \\"get down where you live\\" and talk in plain ( an often explitive four letter words) language so that you know you are not listening to some Ph. D. who is way over your heads. His TV and Radio fame is well-deserved, and he provides here no quick and easy exit or fix for an unharmonious marriage, but some excellent advice of how to proceed to make your situation better and to improve yourself first and then your relationships.  We highly recommend this set of CD's for time well-used when you are on the go.	2005-01-31
US	35509648	R18CP75K2UYUTR	0595297935	364007228	Twelve Step Plan to Becoming an Actor in LA: From Your Town to Tinseltown	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If you're going to LA to live, you need this book	Twelve Step Plan To Becoming an Actor in L.A. by Dawn Lerman & Dori Keller is a must for anyone who wants to start a career there. The huge city can be daunting if you have no money and no contacts.  The authors, now have successful careers in L.A. and tell you how to make it happen for yourself.  The  detail their experiences of arriving as unknowns, and they give excellent step-by-step guidance to helping yourself succeed in this difficult profession. By creating a plan and working each step in order you can make your dreams come true, but not by just dreaming! This book is a perfect going away gift for anyone about to tackle the big city. Whether or not you want to be an actor, this book is an excellent guide to how to survive in the city with many helpful businesses and phone numbers listed.	2005-01-31
US	35509648	R2BNN6UQQHGCYT	1401900895	742860306	Sylvia Browne's Book of Angels	Books	4	2	2	N	N	WOW  Amazing!	The Book of Angels by Sylvia Browne is a two CD set which will convince you of the reality of angels all around you, even if you have never considered them before.  The author, a born psychic, has seen and communicated with angels all her life just as you and I communicate with normal people in our everyday lives.  Sylvia also has a Spirit Guide, Francene, whom she consults on a regular basis and who has given her much of her knowledge of the specifics of the various Angel Phylums and what the supervise.  Ms. Browne is very specific in the colors, signs, and duties of the various groups of angels and has several brief meditations to help you engage the particular group who can help with your specific problems. The book is a delightful and convincing listen, even though your realistic mind is screaming, \\"No Way!\\"  Try her experiment to see if angels are real and are really there for you. I did, and I went WOW! Amazing!	2005-01-31
US	35509648	R20HX4P7QVYKOR	0971569908	485447395	Sam the Hero Cat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Terrific & Written by Children	Sam the Hero Cat by St. Pete Beach author, Barbara Yanowski, won the top award as Best All-Around Children's Non-Fiction Book at the Florida Publisher's Association annual President's Book Awards in Orlando recently.<br /><br />These third graders from Glen Cove in New York City's Metropolitan area are the illustrators of the charming book Sam the Hero Cat, written by  Barbara Yanowski and the Basha Bunch, who says it is a true story that happened to her family and their cat.  The cat is the hero in this delightful tale which shows children what it means to be a hero.  It was soon after 9/11 in this New York school that Barbara presented her little hero story to her grandson's class and asked these third graders to draw pictures.  The classroom teacher, Laura Lambros, turned the illustrating process into an exciting learning experience for the children, knowing it would be therapeudic for their emotional healing process taking place.  When the children were so enthusiastic about the project and the pictures turned out so well,  Yanowski and her publisher husband, Hank Connolly, decided to turn it into a book illustrated by the children. All proceeds from the $12.95 book go to the Hero Fund of The Landing School, Glen Cove Public Schools in Glen Cove, NY. You and your children will love this book, on many levels.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R3LVCR5VDM5ZXB	0937539260	585320883	Get What You Want!	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great Help for Public Speakers	In all her offerings she is candid, funny, and brilliant in sharing the secrets of public speaking and becoming a successful entrepreneur, which she learned, not in the long, tedious process of earning an MBA, but as a hair-dresser in San Francisco for fifteen years.  She asked pertinent questions as she cut the hair of successful business men and women, and she figured out how to apply them to her own life and dreams.  And you can too, as she takes you, step-by-encouraging step into the How To of fulfilling your own dreams.  She is currently the first woman President of the 4,000 member National Speakers Association.  As the winner of every one of the awards the Association offers, she is designated a \\"speakers' speaker\\" and generously shares her tips of the trade in her fascinating books, CD's, speeches and on her website.  No public speaker should miss her works, and you'll love her charming British accent.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1KJME2MGDGYRF	0515082309	207281254	Bond Of Blood	Books	3	0	29	N	N	Interesting  First Novel	Blood Bond\\"<br /><br />  by Paul Alongi and Charles Jacobs<br /><br />Reviewed by: Bill Neely<br /><br />For those that were first captivated by \\"The Godfather\\" and then in the last few years drawn to the HBO series \\"The Sopranos\\", the novel \\"Blood Bond\\" is an entertaining read.  The co-authors combine their backgrounds and experiences to set up a modern day psychological tragedy which, like the ancient Greek dramas, brings out the perilous tight rope that one is made to walk when attempting to live an honorable life while trapped in family ties with a corrupted and dishonorable brother.<br /><br />Paul Alongi contributes his knowledge and experience of Italian family life and his career as a practicing attorney to the writing abilities of Charles Jacobs, a long-time, award-winning journalist, publisher of daily newspaper groups on both coasts, and editor of several magazines.  They unfold an intriguing plot of how the knowledge and desire to stay clear of wrong may not be enough when family is concerned.<br /><br />The main character Nino Cienza, though working hard as a musician in a band to earn his way through college and law school and an honorable life, can not escape the bond of blood that ties him to the corruption and wrong doings of his younger brother Nicky.  Even when Nino feels he has distanced himself from the corrupt world of dishonesty and crime, he finds himself entangled through the actions and dealings of his brother.  The plot takes many turns and twists that are unexpected and ends in an unusual way.  The authors seem, in the end, to wish to show that there can be forgiveness and restitution, within the boundaries of family relationships, that supercede the wrongs committed, but I found that the reader may not be able to agree that the characters merit this forgiveness.<br /><br />\\"Blood Bond\\" holds the readers' attention through plot twists and is an easy read but does lack some fleshing out of certain characters as well as lacking more vivid descriptions of certain key places. The story and the psychological intrigue are the key elements to this novel.e vivid descriptions of certain key places. The story and the psychological intrigue are the key elements to this novel.      <br />	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R3PVCFQTYOCAGX	0972455507	270839116	Threads of Passion	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Very Sexy	THREADS OF PASSION by Holly Hayes is an unusual travel book, which gives beautiful descriptions of a woman's longing to find herself and her inner spirit in her travels and love affairs in Hong Kong, the coast of France, Barbados, Japan, and Bali.  This book sizzles, and if you enjoy reading Playboy and Penthouse, you'll read this with relish.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1V0FFDL4E7AKV	0415969980	169039682	Lost in the Grooves: Scram's Capricious Guide to the Music You Missed	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Terrific Reference/Guide for all Music Lovers	Lost in the Grooves, Scram's Capricious Guide to the Music You Missed from Routledge Press, written by many contributors, is edited by Kim Cooper and David Smay with cover and illustrations by Tom Neely. This could be considered both the anthology and encyclopedia of the not-so-popular music scene. Written in clever, whimsical, tongue in cheek style, the book is a wealth of trivia and facts about hundreds of albums and singles which never made the Top Ten or Hit Parade in the last forty-plus years, some by obscure artists and some non-hits by well-known artists. Because of the alphabetical arrangement of the numerous reviews the juxtaposition of the aritists, styles, and genre of the music is outrageously interesting in itself!  For anyone who ever shoved nickles into a Juke Box, any music lover of any kind, and any pop-culture enthusiast, this book Rocks! Tom Neely's delightful cover design, illustrations, and caricatures of some of the artists will delight any reader	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R2P9LWD8FJXELN	0895261456	729510035	Life Is Hard, Food Is Easy: The 5-Step Plan to Overcome Emotional Eating and Lose Weight on Any Diet	Books	4	83	87	N	N	Good Tips for Any Dieter's Success	Life is Hard, Food is Easy by Linda Spangle, RN,MA, is a new and highly successful approach to dieting..., or rather learning to eat in a new way for optimal health. Linda is the founder and director of the highly successful WINNERS For Life: Wellness and Weight Loss Clinic.  She observed how difficult it is for people to keep off the weight they work so hard to lose.  She identifies the emotional factors, different from hunger, that make people eat and helps us establish new patterns to monitor our feeding habits.  Her five points explained in the book include: What's going on? What do I feel? What do I need? What's in my way? and What will I do?  In learning to seek these answers readers will discover a new way to keep weight at the desired level, create new habits, and feel good about their bodies.  A very good companion to any diet!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R3QDQJ9G646PII	0609807838	152750114	Don't You Dare Get Married Until You Read This! The Book of Questions for Couples	Books	4	12	30	N	N	Practical and Humorous Considerations	Don't You Dare Have Kids Until You Read This! By Corey Donaldson seems at first to be outrageous because it is written by someone who is not a parent.  However, when you read this insightful book of questions and wisdom quotations, you realize Corey is forcing you to explore the hundreds of  pertinent questions which will enable you to embark on or refrain from becoming a parent, as an honest career choice.  As both a parent and grandparent, I am amazed at Donaldson's wisdom and insight.  I am gratified that he asks not only the obvious questions, like \\"How often does an infant need to be bathed?\\", but the more deeply penetrating questions like \\"What makes you think you are worthy (or unworthy) to have a child?\\" \\"If your child turned out to be exactly like you would that make you happy or unhappy?\\"  and \\"Think of your most valuable possession. How would you react if that were damaged or destroyed by your child?\\"  Granted, you cannot possibly know before having children how incredibly much you will love them, and you cannot possibly answer all the questions in this book without experience of parenting, but these are very pertinent questions to ASK yourself and your spouse.  An excellent book to make you think deeply and not take for granted the world's most important career in which most people find themselves with no preparation.Donaldson is also author of the very successful book  Don't You Dare Get Married Until You Read This!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R10BQIDLST0OWA	0971813809	236855456	Savoring Sandestin	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Beautiful Collector Type of Cook Book	You'll find  scores of Southern Coastal recipes for every occasion in this grand cook book complied with memories and reflections from many who have enjoyed Sandestin Resort on Florida's Northwestern Gulf Coast during the resorts' thirty years. This Community Effort compilation of favorite recipes is a thank you from all who enjoy their special stays or lifestyle at Sandestin Resort.  All proceeds from this book are donated to the Sacred Heart Hospital, a much needed facility on the Emerald Coast.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R3IN2IBT2GF7G	0738705799	887253879	Oh No! UFO! (Strange Encounters Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A FUN BOOK	Oh No! UFO!  by Linda Joy Singleton  is a delightful young reader's novel in the STRANGE series about the family named Strange, with the father being a TV show host/producer who debunks the paranormal.  Cassie, the main character, is the young teen who believes she is the only normal member of the family.  Her genius (self-proclaimed) brother is a crazy, aspiring actor who continuously embarrasses his sister.  Her little sister, Amber, converses with and understands animals, she claims.  And of course, Mom is always embarrassing this teen!  Cassie takes a camping trip with her family and saves her sister from becoming an Alien show-and-tell experiment.  A good chapter book for older elementary or middle school students. I found it as delightful to read as young readers do!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1D0ZA2R6P6NIV	1930771223	650211946	10 Timeless Principles of Professional Success: Using the Life-Work Compass to Reach your Potential	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Success for ANY Endeavor	0 Timeless Principles of Professional Success by Steven R. Webber is a good book for business travelers to read on the plane. Steven's ten principles are well thought out and simply, convincingly presented.  An easy read, this book offers advice and guides to help take you to the next level in your business relationships and practices.  But more than just in business, the principles in this book are a good guide for living in general, and are a good set of principles for parenting.  A young mother or father can read this with the idea that the family is the corporation, apply the ten principles, and achieve much greater success in motivating the children and the family as a group. These are excellent principles to teach teens as a guide for achieving in school and in their life dreams. Webber's book has much sage advice and could be called a guide for living successfully.  So whether you are trying to succeed in business or in the daily business of life, read and follow Webbers ten principles for SUCCESS in any endeavor	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R29KHDVXYZBCT9	1886230080	827466818	Master Your Panic and Take Back Your Life!: Twelve Treatment Sessions to Conquer Panic, Anxiety and Agoraphobia (Mental Health)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful Self-Help Guide	Master Your Panic and Take Back Your Life, Third Edition, by Denise F. Beckfield,PhD. , written in lay language instead of \\"medicalese\\" is a step-by-step, straight forward how to help yourself if you suffer from panic attacks, anxiety, or agoraphobia.  Explaining what constitutes a panic attack, the doctor shows what causes the frightening attacks to happen and how to trace and ammend their root causes.  She details the warning signals to become alert to in order to sense an attack coming on before it really kicks in. Then Dr. Beckfield gives excellent yet simple methods of what to do to prevent the panic attack from occurring.  The book helps the sufferer to analyse attack triggers and how to challenge catastrophic beliefs, how to practice situations that cause panic while learning the steps to prevent the attack.  Her methods include his SRB formula which, when practiced can become automatic and restore the calm state of life which the panick attack sufferer has lost, giving back one's ease and control. The book has some excellent methods and is helpful also for family and friends to read in order to understand what the panic attack victim is experiencing and to help him or her conquer these overwhelming experiences. A very helpful book and an easy and interesting read.The First Aid for Panic is alone worth the price, from Impact Publishers in California.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R377Z4JYOQQE9H	9998878713	988851909	Lead the Field	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Timeless Wise Advise	LEAD THE FIELD by Earl Nightingale could be considered the \\"secret kernel of wisdom\\" of all motivational audio series.  Nightingale, who grew up too poor to own books or go to college, made a life-long study of how to better oneself and he became the leader of his field as a speaker and with his 7,000 motivational radio and TV commentaries.  Now, with the audio program set from the foremost company for motivational listening , Nightingale-Conant Corporation which he founded, you can hear this set, which compiles the best of his self-improvement methods into twelve fascinating listening periods.  In his grandfatherly, gentle voice he teaches the listener how to be \\"constructively discontented\\" and to use \\"intelligent objectivity\\" and gives \\"ideas and actions that will help you achieve personal happiness and fulfillment and to become the leader in whatever field you choose.  You'll be glad you chose this set for your travel adventures listening!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R284KGEI3Y0DHA	067189515X	964755774	The Psychology of Achievement	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Excellent Motivation for Anyone who wants to succeed	The Psychology of Achievement by Brian Tracy is perhaps the most useful set of self-help audio courses I have ever listened to, and I am a self-help audio book \\"junkie\\"... I listen whenever I am driving.  If you never listen to any other course by audio, this is the ONE to buy.  It is like handing you a how-to guidebook for navigating life's ups and downs successfully and happily.  Brian,  from a difficult background himself and with no formal higher education, literally \\"pulled himself up by the bootstraps\\" and achieved great success and happiness in all dimensions of his life.  He has \\"taken notes\\" all the way and given away all his great, and easy to apply, tips that gave him his success.  This is an audio set that I will give my children and grandchildren when they are in early teens, and it will be the greatest gift I'll ever give them.<br /><br />  Brian guides you step by step into the most important attribute you can achieve: building a positive self-concept, which is the key to your whole life.  Even late in life you can develop this with the keys Brian gives.  Then you can learn to accept responsibility and take charge of your life by choosing your actions and your re-actions, as YOUR choices determine your life.  Then he goes further to teach you how to program or re-program your thought patterns to get rid of fear and worry and develop positive visualization and affirmation instead.  With that kind of thinking hyou can set goals and work toward them with confidence in tiny, incremental steps each day.  You'll learn how to attack problems creatively and make good decisions. Finally, you will learn how to create successful and rewarding personal relationships with everyone in your life.  What else could there be more important than these keys for success and happiness?  Order the set for yourself and your loved ones and business partners today.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	RK59MJVHHFRB8	141030180X	881428772	Into Wild Alaska (The Jeff Corwin Experience)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Collect Them All	The Jeff Corwin Experience from Blackbirch Press and Thomas Learning is a new series of nature books, long awaited by the young fans of the TV's crazy snake hunter Jeff Corwin, who is so popular on Animal Planet, Discovery, and The Learning Channel.  In the introduction Jeff tells young readers,\\"I don't need to go (that) far to see amazing wildlife up close...you can still experience the awesome beauty of nature almost anwhere you go, any day of the week.  The books in the new series for elementary age readers are 46 pages and loaded with full color photographs and Jeff's enthusiastic words telling about whatever place he is examining in each volume.  Each has a very helpful glossary at the end to explain the terms he uses in explaining and teaching his readers.  The series includes Snaketacular, which is about Jeff's passion and favorite species.  There will be a book on each state, introducing kids to the natural wonders of plants and animals within or unique to that state. We selected Alaska, Arizona, Louisiana, California, and Florida and found each to be equally exciting and informative.  Although the format and layout is the same for each, the facts and ****** are completely unique in each.  This is an excellent series to gift your school library or your children!  And be sure to take these along on trips to enhance your learning and fun for the entire family. Adults will learn as much as the kids!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	RD2Y8ZM75WUN6	1580084060	438794819	Cinnamon Mornings and Chocolate Dreams	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Exquisite Cook Book with Wonderful Recipes	CINNAMON MORNINGS AND CHOCOLATE DREAMS by Pamela Lanier is a unique cookbook/travelers' guidebook.  The author has selected her favorite recipe from each of scores of Bed and Breakfast Inns she has visited and reviewed in many states and Canada.  She gives a small review with a \\"bird's-eye view\\" of the establishment beside each of the luscious sounding, easy to follow recipes.  The book will make you yearn to reserve your stay at some of these B & B's, and it will make even you \\"I-hate-to-cook\\" cooks want to try some of these delectable dishes.  Order from 707-763-0271 or click here.  The author was recently named the Lewis and Clark of modern travel by the Tribune Syndication. She lives in San Francisco.  This book will make the perfect Christmas or other occasion	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1MQ2E82P17EGA	0800759117	591246878	Dateable: Are You? Are They?	Books	5	8	30	N	N	A MUST for all teens!	DATEABLE: ARE YOU?  ARE THEY? by Justin Lookadoo and Hayley Morgan is an excellent book for teens who are just beginning or already in the midst of the dating game.  The authors, nationally acclaimed for their understanding and relating with kids, write this book from years of experience in the field. Lookadoo is a juvenile probation officer and Morgan launched The Hungry Planet teen think tank, reaching out to thousands of teens across America.  The male/female author pair tell teens in plain language how to deal with their passions and turn them toward developing themselves into the most they as individuals can become, living up to their full potentials and achieving their highest dreams. The authors not only warn of the pitfalls of young dating relationships, but they also speak plainly about how both girls and guys can avoid the inherent traps in our culture which can destroy their lives.  The authors address young readers in their own \\"teen\\" language and call a spade a spade about what happens in the dating relationships, how the guys really think, how the girls really think, and what they can do to understand and protect themselves for a long and happy future instead of destroying it and all around them in one hasty, passionate moment, whether it be drugs, sex, or some other fool-hearty experiment. This book is a MUST for all teens, and a valuable tool into understanding and loving themselves through the most difficult period of their lives	2005-01-09
US	35509648	RQGA9T8AHV8EE	1886230463	328799458	Time for a Better Marriage: Training in Marriage Enrichment (Rebuilding Books)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	So Very Helpful!	This workbook is a MUST for all married couples, and can teach anyone good skills of communication, listening, acceptance, and encouragement, which will benefit any inter-personal relationship.  Without expensive counseling, couples in marital conflict will find this the \\"How To\\" Book from which they can work and learn how to make their marriage succeed.  The authors teach you how to choose to stay with your marriage partner, learn to have open dialogue to resolve conflicts, develop self confidence and esteem yourself and each other, and how to show each other that your relationship is important enough to take the time and effort to rebuild it.  You will learn that you are not a victim because you always have a choice.  The more you accept yourself, the more you will accept your partner and have real expectations.  Buy this WorkBook,  even if your pertner will not read it. You will get good ideas and gain good communication skills.<br /><br />\\"You can only change yourself. Even without cooperation a relationship can improve when one person begins to change. One partner's growth and change often provides motivation for the other partner to change.\\"	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1O6GOQLV6MVMI	0595296173	695411145	Being A Dad: The Stuff No One Told Me	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Perfect Gift for Any Dad	Being a Dad by Dale Alderman  is a delightfully funny book about the experience of new  parenting as told by a father of two boys under seven years of age.  From the initial homecoming with new bundle of joy to the potty training to school days, Dad relates the embarrassments, the horrors, and the joys with hilarious candid personal experiences. This book will make any parent grin and say, \\"Been there, done that,\\" as he or she chuckles through re-living the memory from this dad's perspective.  This is a perfect gift book for expectant or new fathers, or to make any daddy laugh! A fun read.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	RU5M0HCKMBIZI	0399530177	589298819	Women for Hire's Get-Ahead Guide to Career Success	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Well Organized With Priceless Tips	Women For Hire's Get-Ahead Guide To Career Success  by Tory Johnson & Robyn Freedman Spizman is a woman's BEST guide for total career success.  The authors take you step by step from preparing your resume, preparing for the job search, going through the interview process, but they don't leave you there just getting that job you really defined and truly want. Now you want to keep it and climb up to be hugely successful in achieving your goals both at work and at home and creating a happy balance between work and the rest of your time.  This book guides you all the way, through the joys of the perfect job and workplace and how to get away from the drudgery job you hate.  Excellent advice is given  by example of real job experiences for handling duties and problems and joys in the workplace, for mining your opportunities, cultivating your contacts, creating your network, and working with mentors.  This is an absolutely INDESPENSIBLE book for any working woman or any woman just entering or changing positions in the job market. The best graduation gift you could find for a young woman!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R2ITNR0EMWT9CB	0937539414	51745765	Make It So You Don't Have to Fake It!: 55 Fast-Acting Strategies for Long-Lasting Success	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent for Public Speakers	In all her offerings she is candid, funny, and brilliant in sharing the secrets of public speaking and becoming a successful entrepreneur, which she learned, not in the long, tedious process of earning an MBA, but as a hair-dresser in San Francisco for fifteen years.  She asked pertinent questions as she cut the hair of successful business men and women, and she figured out how to apply them to her own life and dreams.  And you can too, as she takes you, step-by-encouraging step into the How To of fulfilling your own dreams.  She is currently the first woman President of the 4,000 member National Speakers Association.  As the winner of every one of the awards the Association offers, she is designated a \\"speakers' speaker\\" and generously shares her tips of the trade in her fascinating books, CD's, speeches and on her website.  No public speaker should miss her works, and you'll love her charming British accent.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R35K037BF312P6	0972190309	822452556	Honeymoon Marriage: Discover the Secrets to Achieving the Marriage of Your Dreams	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Advice from Marriage Mentors	Honeymoon Marriage, by Darren and Donna McNees, is a guidebook for newlyweds, a trouble shooter for marriages in difficulty, a relationship renewal manual for couples who desire to deepen their relationship or renew their vows.  As every marriage experiences trials and hurdles through the years, this is a book every home should have on a bookshelf.  The price of the book at about $25 is less than a half-hour of marriage counseling, yet it offers the wisdom and guidance for do-it-yourself marriage therapy equal to months in a psychologist's office.  Whether your marriage is in trouble, or you want insure the present bliss of your relationship, every couple will take their marriage to a deeper level of love, mutual respect, harmony, and joy by reading and following the excellent guidance and exercises in this book.  Donna and Darren have been married for twelve years and serve as marriage mentors in the Chicago.  They have the goal of saving a million marriages within the decade.  We highly recommend  this book...a great wedding gift for any couple!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R24YJDH79KSTGN	0974204404	668327491	Stop Parenting, Start Coaching: how to motivate, inspire, and connect with your teenager	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dwell on your Child's Strengths	Stop Parenting and Start Coaching by  Carol Carter, Gary Izumo, and Joe Martin is a quick read with lots of good information for parents of teens and for teens themselves.  With  helpful points to remember, which are easy to grasp and implement, the authors show how parents and teens will have a happier relationship, with better guidance for a successful maturity of the youngster, if parents adopt the same approach a good coach takes for his team.  An example is that a parent has love for his or her teen while a coach has tough love. Parents often dwell on a youngster's mistakes, while a good coach builds on one's strengths.  The book offers sound, easy to follow advice which proves itself in rearing successful and happy young people into maturity while maintaining good family relationships.  A very helpful guide with a club parents can join for further support and monthly newsletters.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R16HISGBLL7D4A	0802714072	403709868	Nobody's Baby Now: Reinventing Your Adult Relationship with Your Mother and Father	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Relationships Help For Anyone	Nobody's Baby Now by Susan Newman, PhD. is Dr. Newman's twelfth book and a great help for working out personal conflicts between generations. As a family counselor Dr. Newman saw the need for this book, the only one which covers the problems between parent and adult children, dealing with the relationships from the point of view of the adult child.  She offers many case studies and interviews which she documented over several years and which cover almost every conceivable relationship difficulty between grown children and their healthy, independent parents. (Other books cover problems with parents who need care and are dying.)  These generational relationship problems are common to all adult children, and Dr. Newman offers numerous solutions which the adult child can use to develop a happy, appreciative, loving relationship with his or her parents in their older years so that they won't suffer regrets after the parent dies. This is an excellent book for every young adult to own and for every parent of adult children to read in order to make the best of this closest of all bonds, learning to treasure each other as peers and friends and letting go of old tapes and practices from childhood which are no longer appropriate.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R22AOO6980Q8WS	0966435656	297989830	Wheelchairs on the Go: Accessible Fun in Florida	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Necessary for Florida Travelers who are Challenged	Wheelchairs on the Go: Accessible Fun in Florida  (by Michelle Stigleman & Deborah Van Brunt,  424 pages,  ISBN: 9664356-5-6  ,  USA: $24.95)  is a comprehensive guide for any resident or traveler with ambulatory difficulties  who would like to have fun in  Florida.  Michelle and Deborah have covered  hundreds of locations and listed the available aids and pitfalls for challenged travelers.  You can look up any city or any activity and learn how to adjust or plan your travels, or whether it is not advisable for those with limitations. The authors list so many aids and so many fun activities that anyone who has hesitated to travel because of physical disabilities will want to make Florida a top destination.  Every kind of fun activity and attraction is covered, describing the potential barriers and how to overcome them.  An EXCELLENT guide book for those who need it, including people who use canes and walkers, or simply can't walk very far.  Additions and updates to the book will be posted	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R160Y8MDG4S9MT	0785264280	556355292	The Traveler's Gift: Seven Decisions that Determine Personal Success	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent Read for Any Trip	The Traveler's Gift  By Comedian Andy Andrews is a very readable and appealing book quite appropriate for our times of joblessness and looming war.  The novel focuses on David Ponder's journey to wisdom and insight following the loss of his career and his desire to live.  After a car crash he has a transforming experience of \\"meeting\\" Abraham Lincoln, Anne Frank, King Solomon, Harry Truman and Chirstopher Columbus at the major crisis points in their lives.  Each of these historical giants impart their wisdom to David, who returns with the courage to take responsibility for his own choices, seek wisdom, take action, and choose to be happy by developing an attitude of forgiveness and persistence in the face of difficulties. This light reading allegory provides much prescient insight for coping in the fearful world we face each day.  Andy, a popular comedian who has come from homelessness to touring with the rich and famous ( from Garth Brooks to Cher) and entertaining four presidents has been quite successful with this his first book. Good reading for any trip!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R5XXZ0WH4ABQH	1886230544	449782639	The Stress Owner's Manual: Meaning, Balance and Health in Your Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Everyone Needs This Book!	The Stress Owner's Manual, Meaning, Balance, and Health in Your Life by Ed Boenisch, Ph.D., and C. Michele Haney, Ph.D. is the second edition which just hit the book stores.  I picked it up thinking I would quickly flip through and get the highlights because I am not stressed...but I soon discovered EVERYONE in our modern society is stressed, even children, because of our lifestyle in the Western World.  This book is so fascinatingly written I could not put it down. I read from cover to cover, underlining key points and then bought a copy for everyone on my Christmas list.  It is a wonderful and practical guide that anyone can use to make life easier in the workplace, in social situations, and at home. The ideas are simple to apply to replace harmful habits, and guaranteed to make anyone happier and healthier.  The book is a MUST for everyone!  To order click on Amazon to your right.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R2PY1R2U33ACHH	1410301818	746602845	The Jeff Corwin Experience - Into Wild Louisiana	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Series	The Jeff Corwin Experience from Blackbirch Press and Thomas Learning is a new series of nature books, long awaited by the young fans of the TV's crazy snake hunter Jeff Corwin, who is so popular on Animal Planet, Discovery, and The Learning Channel.  In the introduction Jeff tells young readers,\\"I don't need to go (that) far to see amazing wildlife up close...you can still experience the awesome beauty of nature almost anwhere you go, any day of the week.  The books in the new series for elementary age readers are 46 pages and loaded with full color photographs and Jeff's enthusiastic words telling about whatever place he is examining in each volume.  Each has a very helpful glossary at the end to explain the terms he uses in explaining and teaching his readers.  The series includes Snaketacular, which is about Jeff's passion and favorite species.  There will be a book on each state, introducing kids to the natural wonders of plants and animals within or unique to that state. We selected Alaska, Arizona, Louisiana, California, and Florida and found each to be equally exciting and informative.  Although the format and layout is the same for each, the facts and ****** are completely unique in each.  This is an excellent series to gift your school library or your children!  And be sure to take these along on trips to enhance your learning and fun for the entire family. Adults will learn as much as the kids!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1ZZWMJM49BTFF	097250981X	172678934	Love, Jean: Inspiration for Families Living with Dysfunction of Sensory Integration	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Sensitive and Helpful for Family of LD Child	Love, Jean is co-authored by an interesting trio.  Dr. Jean Ayres,  a renowned Occupational Therapist who pioneered treatment of sensory integration disorder; her nephew and patient Philip R. Erwin.  Zoe Mailloux, Director of Administration at the Pediatric Therapy Network in Torrance, CA. provides pertinent commentary in each chapter for parents of children who have learning differences, giving excellent information about what to watch for, how to cope, and how to help the child around the obstacles the learning disorder creates.  But the unique and endearing quality of the book is that it is composed of selected letters between loving Aunt Jean and her nephew in New York.  Young Phil's letters express, sometimes painfully, the injustices and emotional trauma he experiences from fifth grade on, as he struggles with his inability to do math, physical education, and his feeling of frustration and social isolation. His Aunt Jean's perceptive and compassionate letters encourage and inspire Phillip as he experiences these traumas of growing up with a learning disability.  She offers professional advice as to what to do to help his brain learn to re-wire itself so that he can function successfully in the world.  These letters began several decades ago when Aunt Jean was a pioneer in this field of psychology and learning as she encouraged Phil.  The  triumph of his life story, through its poignant struggles, is a great victory, proving Phil's determination, his parents' support, and Jean's therapy successful beyond imagination.  Ultimately thousands of children have reaped the benefit and thousands of parents are given hope and directions of how to help their children. This is a must read for anyone who suspects a child has a learning disability.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R2685GRZZ17W3P	1886230536	900707225	Luck Is No Accident: Making the Most of Happenstance in Your Life and Career	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Valuable Tool for Any Stage of Life	Whether you're 21,51,or 81, it's never too late to create a satisfying life for yourself\\" and this book tells you how in a quick and easy read. The book encourages you to follow your dreams, not to feel stuck in your present situation, to be open to changes and to watch for circumstances and happenstances that are life-changing opportunities.  Don't  take the attitude of having to decide what you'll do the rest of your life...you'll change and so will your opportunities. Watch for them and mine them.  Day dream and learn from yourself what you want to do and where you want to go in life. Don't allow yourself to remain in situations, jobs, or relationships that you don't enjoy.  \\"Put yourself in charge of creating a satisfying life.\\" If you can't say \\" I love going to work,\\" this book gives you many, many guides to changing that.  The author offers numerous ways to make contacts, to try new ideas and situations and people, and to get excited about your life again...by first removing your fear of failure and by recognizing that no one's life goes \\"according to plan\\" because circumstances always change and unexpected events occur. Learn to view  these as opportunities and they will lead you to a better life than you could have planned, if you learn to stop sabotaging yourself  by your expectations or those of others.  In the book you will learn how to overcome obstacles and to know that \\"failure is a normal part of life and learning.\\"  The book is a valuable tool for people at any stage of life, and especially for students about to graduate and look for a job in this dismal job market.  A perfect gift book.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R8BXE8R0Y4GDN	0312304188	587239615	Personal Notes: How to Write from the Heart for Any Occasion	Books	5	56	56	N	N	Terrific Tool for Any Desk	Personal Notes: How to Write from the Heart for Any Occasion by Sandra E. Lambhad thought many times of writing a book on how to write personal notes, a nearly lost social art-form; however, I'm glad I never got around to it because I could not have written the book nearly so insightfully as Sandra.  She combines the \\"how to's\\" of polite and pertinent note writing with wisdom of the spirit and heart of both the sender and receiver of the notes.  Not only does she guide you in how to write notes, she also guides you in the psychology and empathy required to write from your heart. You'll learn how to  put yourself in another's shoes in order to know how and when to reach out witrh a note. A very helpful and knowledgeable book for every home, a great tool for teachers and parents, and important skills for business and interpersonal relationships.  This would be an excellent graduation or wedding shower gift.  Personal Notes is really worth having	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R2D7JUMO2Z3S0S	087542869X	901508713	Jude's Herbal Home Remedies: Natural Health, Beauty & Home-Care Secrets (Living With Nature Series)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Heal Yourself Without Prescriptions!	Herbal Home Remedies By Jude C. Todd, CH, MH, is a household guide to living more simply and benefiting from what our earh and our garden provide us naturally. The author is a master herbalist with her degree from Dominion Herbal College and is widely respected as an authority in the subject which has been her focus for forty years.  She explains which plants can be used for health and healing and how and where these should be found or grown.  The book is easy to use as the alements and treatments are listed in categories, often with several different natural treatments suggested.  She also gives many recipes which have been time tested and proven. You will also find natural and effective cleaners, air fresheners, laundry aids, insect repellent, as well as some tasty uses of herbs in foods.  At the back of the book you'll find drawings of many of the plants used in the formulas for safe identifications.  This is a fascinating book for those of us unfamiliar with the territory and a must for the serious herb user	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1TTRXLKX5JWMM	0971326525	391495734	I'd Rather Do Chemo Than Clean Out the Garage: Choosing Laughter Over Tears	Books	4	56	57	N	N	Inspiring and Cheering for Anyone with Cancer	I'd Rather Do Chemo by Fran Di Giacomo is an amazing approach to living with the big C.  The author is writing from her experience of ten surgeries and many years of intermittent chemo-therapy.  She says that in trying to come to terms with her perpetual condition of illness she rebelled against the sappy, optimistic, think positively books and videos after so long and continued to be depressed. Then she discovered that laughter is the very best medicine and surrounded herself with anything that made her laugh...her own therapy.  When she found how much better she was able to cope with her illness this way, she decided to write this humorous book, which takes every aspect of the traumas a cancer patient faces and gives a whimsical but realistic twist to them, in order to help other patients survive with laughter.  Poking fun at the surgery experience she says she had the idea that with so much paraphynalia in the O.R., she might just disappear and hide under the gurney and see if the doctor's noticed.  She also arrives in the O.R. with an autograph book for anyone who has had their hands or instruments in her gut to sign.  She tickles the funny bone of her readers over the casserole and chocolate scenarios and what to do with the many flowers friends send.  From hair loss to memory loss, she bravely laughs through it all.  This book provides  therapeutic laughter for cancer patients and is a good read to give insight to their care-givers, family and friends.  An excellent gift book for anyone whose life is affected by cancer.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1J8DLMOVMXW53	0974637009	597827936	Waiting for White Horses	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Good for Hunters	Waiting for White Horses by Nathan Jorgenson:  This book would be a good take-along on a fishing or hunting trip for leisurely reading at night or in the car.  The author's descriptions are beautiful, and the book has most appeal for male readers or women hunters. The story will make you laugh, cry and wish you could spend some time at Spider Lake Duck Camp with Grant and Will, the two main characters who share an amazing friendship! Dentist and avid outdoorsman-- Nathan Jorgenson is the winner of the 2004 Benjamin Franklin Award for Best New Voice in Fiction for Waiting for White Horses. Jorgenson has creatively appealed to both males, with the story taking place amid a friendship of two outdoorsmen; and to women, with intriguing love lines. The novel's main character, Grant Thorson, is forced to deal with significant losses, and each new challenge pushes him closer to an agonizing re-appraisal of his own hopes and dreams. The reader is allowed into the touching, personal relationships that Grant has with his best friend, his father, his daughter and his romantic relationships.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R2BT65V6FC0NDF	1886230404	693099385	You Can Beat Depression: A Guide to Prevention & Recovery (Third Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Valuable Self Help Guide From Physician	You Can Beat Depression By Dr. John Preston is a thorough discussion of the causes and signs of depression. The book is in lay language to help you determine if you yourself or your loved one are experiencing a natural sadness which will pass or if the depression is clinical and need's the treatment of a physician.  Dr. Preston discusses the reasons many times depression is not correctly diagnosed because it seems simple to pop a pill and feel better.  However, Americans are over-medicated and proper diagnosis of depression will give real help, not just a cover-up. Sometimes talking with a loved one or a counselor will solve the problem, and sometimes an illness needs to be treated.  Whatever the root of depression, this book will help you interpret the signs and causes and seek the proper help and cure. You don't have to live with depression.  This book offers the hope and help you need.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1UTFGOGVGNJS5	089638098X	754446849	Do You Have a Secret?: How to Get Help for Scary Secrets	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Best Guide for Parents to Help Scared Children	This excellent little picture book is sensitively written to help anyone who has been abused to open up and talk in order to begin the healing process. Because the word abuse is never used in the text the book has been used by pediatricians, counsellors and parents to help children also with other scary secrets like death of a loved one, war, and divorce, and even death of a pet. This book is a MUST for every counselor and every home. It is the BEST way to determine if your child has experienced abuse from some care taker, and the book begins the healing process.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R22JDFZWZR5NC0	0759673659	761403321	The American Gentleman: A Contemporary Guide to Chivalry	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Well Needed For Every Young Man's Training	The American Gentleman by Michael James Hall, M.D. has the very appropriate sub-title A Contemporary Guide to Chivalry which is an interesting approach to what used to be just plain, good, old-fashioned manners for a gentleman in Europe and in former generations in America.  However, with the advent of women's liberation, men have become confused as to what their proper approach to women should be and many \\"proper\\" manners have been lost in the muddle.  The author gives excellent instructions for any young man interested in nearly every aspect of personal development: from character, code of conduct for dating and interpersonal relationships, dancing, appearance, cleanliness and civility.  It is an excellent book for older teens with one exception: be aware that, since the author is a physician, the book gives explicit details of human sexuality and arousal and discusses what a man should know about a woman and about his own body and how he should conduct himself during sex.  This is a well-written book I highly recommend.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1832MGQL26H7O	0312318529	668619107	The ASJA Guide to Freelance Writing: A Professional Guide to the Business, for Nonfiction Writers of All Experience Levels	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great Tips from Top Pros	The ASJA Guide to Freelance Writing edited by Timothy Harper, is an amazing collection of priceless tips from many of the most successful freelancers in the United States.  American Society of Journalists and Authors is a highly esteemed association of published writers, many of whom derive their total income from their \\"pens.\\"  Instead of carefully guarding the practices and methods that have made them successful, twenty-eight of these writers have written a chapter of the book, each with a different focus for writing success: from office tools to methods of writing, gathering ideas, selling to each type of media, researching, finding help, law, taxes, and so much more. The Appendix is also a wealth of important nuggets of wisdom and tips from many more ASJA members. As a long-time member myself and a journalist with over 30 years' experience, I thought I might not need the book, but I have found prized helps and new ideas on every page of this wonderful book.  It is now my office reference, like friends and teachers gathered around me all wishing me success in my writing endeavors.  This is the tool you need if you ever want to be a published writer, and even if you have been a published author for years.	2005-01-09
US	35509648	R1BTOLQN87WNCH	1410302059	597569751	The Jeff Corwin Experience - Snake-Tacular!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Must for School Libraries	The Jeff Corwin Experience from Blackbirch Press and Thomas Learning is a new series of nature books, long awaited by the young fans of the TV's crazy snake hunter Jeff Corwin, who is so popular on Animal Planet, Discovery, and The Learning Channel.  In the introduction Jeff tells young readers,\\"I don't need to go (that) far to see amazing wildlife up close...you can still experience the awesome beauty of nature almost anwhere you go, any day of the week.  The books in the new series for elementary age readers are 46 pages and loaded with full color photographs and Jeff's enthusiastic words telling about whatever place he is examining in each volume.  Each has a very helpful glossary at the end to explain the terms he uses in explaining and teaching his readers.  The series includes Snaketacular, which is about Jeff's passion and favorite species.  There will be a book on each state, introducing kids to the natural wonders of plants and animals within or unique to that state. We selected Alaska, Arizona, Louisiana, California, and Florida and found each to be equally exciting and informative.  Although the format and layout is the same for each, the facts and ****** are completely unique in each.  This is an excellent series to gift your school library or your children!  And be sure to take these along on trips to enhance your learning and fun for the entire family. Adults will learn as much as the kids!	2005-01-09
US	35509648	RA15NE3B7NLQL	0898155118	806163763	Elegant small hotels: A connoisseur's guide (A Lanier guide)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful Collector Book and Souvenir as well as Guide	Elegant Small Hotels:<br /><br /> A Connoisser's Guide<br /><br />by Pamela Lanier<br /><br />For those travelers who desire the intimate attention to detail and service in a hotel, Pamela Lanier's book Elegant Small Hotels is a must. The book encompasses a large number of hotels in the United States as well as numerous lodgings in Europe, Canada, Mexico, and even Turkey and Thailand. Each of the hotels shown met Ms. Lanier's criteria of having fewer than 200 rooms (I found that most were from 20 to 60 rooms), a high staff-to-guest ratio, the feeling being in a fine residence, little touches not usually experienced in a normal hotel, and overall attention to details. The author also took into consideration the hotel's appeal in the area of meeting the various needs of today's experienced traveler, such as: services for business travelers needing Internet access, secretarial service on call, and teleconferencing; physical fitness facilities as well as privileges for the guests to other sports clubs in the area; and last but surely not least, fine cuisine and the particular dining atmosphere.<br /><br />On each of the 238 pages of the book is the overall information of a particular hotel. These listings are categorized by country and state, beginning with a hotel in Alaska and ending with one in Istanbul, Turkey. With each listing, the reader will find about a 250 to 300 word description of the hotel and surrounding area, a picture, and an index that tells the reader such things as: address and phone numbers, room and suite rates, number of rooms and suites, attractions in area, restrictions, services and amenities, business facilities, sports facilities, and in hotel dining. I found that the room rates ran from as low as $65 to $600. The photos give the traveler a good idea of the type of hotel being listed and the descriptive summaries give good detail as to the essential ambiance the author encountered.<br /><br />Pamela Lanier has also written Golf Resorts: A Complete Guide, which focuses on over 1,000 nationwide, giving good evidence to her having a great deal of experience in this area of the travel field., which focuses on over 1,000 nationwide, giving good evidence to her having a great deal of experience in this area of the travel field.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	RK0H0XWFKC65L	1589850068	920299445	Flying for Peanuts: The ABCs of Flying Southwest Airlines	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fun Insight To Southwest Airlines	Flying for Peanuts by Marty Thompson is a clever and humorous little book that provides the traveler with the ABC's of Flying Southwest Airlines.  One of the most profitable airlines, Southwest treats its customers with fun and comedy, while cutting out the frills.  If you have never flown Southwest, you'll find this book fun to read in preparation for your first flight with that carrier.  If you are already a loyal Southwest customer, you'll find the book fun and familiar and you'll learn about the little lady named Irma who was the first commercial airline stewardess in 1922 and who helped form the customer service policy that works so well for the airline. This book is a manual telling any business owner how to establish successful customer service that allows the customer to choose his/her level of service and helps the workers and customers both find fun in the workplace.  The book is a tribute to all Irma's astute observations taught the industry, making each trip on Southwest Airlines a fun and memorable laugh-in.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R2864GB1ISXWLY	8589992012	605175220	Rio for Partiers: The visual travel guide to Rio de Janeiro, 6th edition	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Perfect Guide for People Going for Carnival	Rio For Partiers is one of SolCat Publishing Company's \\"For Partiers Travel Guides.\\" A handy size to take in briefcase or purse, this guide is very easy to use, with scores of color photos of each place or event mentioned, good maps, and an excellent day-by-day tour itinerary so you can make best use of your time there. The little book even comes with a Portuguese For Travelers CD which is well done and most helpful.  An unusual feature is pictures of the local foods you should try and of specific items to buy as souvenirs, as well as important hand signs to know so that you won't embarrass yourself by using what is an innocent gesture in your home country and may be obscene in Rio. As all guidebooks do, this includes suggested restaurants, bars, hotels, etc. but it also includes places YOU DO NOT want to go with warnings of what you might encounter.  There are suggested activities for rain or shine and according to specific interests. If you are young, liberal, and adventurous, and open-minded this is an excellent travel guide.  However, if you are easily offended or judgemental this is not for you, as some of the slang language and some of the acitivities outlined will not meet your approval.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R1WBR28WEWTP7N	1401902316	460060411	Soul Coaching	Books	4	32	38	N	N	Good for New Year's Resolutions	Soul Coaching:  28 Days to Discover Your Authentic Self  is by Denise Linn, an internationally known healer, lecturer, and writer.  Of Cherokee heritage, Denise has developed a unique system which can take four weeks, or four months to follow in order to really learn who you are at your deepest, most authentic level.  She has divided the system into sections that relate to the energizing elements of nature: Air, Water, Fire, and Earth.  She guides you through exercizes and suggested goals to clear out the debris of your physical surroundings, your body, and your mind and spirit, using each of these four elements for a week.  The book has excellent ideas that are simple and Denise presents them in a positive way that is inspiring so you can get started on the program of self improvement quickly and easily. And following the program faithfully a few minutes each day you'll feel re-created in just four weeks, with your entire life and psyche more organized for joy ad success!  This is the perfect gift to yourself or someone else to use as your New Year's program	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R2EAGKEU40VKWQ	1401902421	105119557	Psychic Navigator	Books	5	61	64	N	N	So You Want to Develop Your Sixth Sense?	Psychic Navigator - Harnessing Your Inner Guidance by John Holland is a lovely little book written by a man who had Sixth Sense from his early years but was afraid to talk about what he could sense or \\"see.\\"  As an adult he found a teacher who could help him learn to develop his extrasensory perceptions and use them confidently to help other people. Now John helps people further by encouraging and teaching readers how to develop this latent ability which we all possess. With easy to follow instructions he teaches \\"the mechanics of psychic awareness, the benefits of meditation, the vital power of breath, and the workings and functions of your chakras and aura.\\" By practicing each of the lessons in this little book, you can learn quickly and easily to trust the \\"feelings\\" we all have experienced and to develop your ability to enhance your own perceptions. An excellent and easy to follow guide, which will greatly enhance your spiritual experiences no matter what Faith you proclaim. The book comes with a guided meditation CD which includes \\"Healing Relaxation for Body and Mind\\" and \\"Raising the Power,\\" a guide for learning to open and close your psychic receptors and raise your energy.\\"  It is fascinating to experience the new levels of awareness and to incorporate them into your life with practice.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	RRP3FZB8H58O5	1401902669	79504506	The Teachings of Abraham Well-Being Cards	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Excellen Gift for Anyone	The Teachings of Abraham Well-Being Cards by Esther and Jerry Hicks is a unique 60 card deck which contain quick reminders to be in the present moment and enjoy your life by conscious good thoughts, which are the only thing you can truly control.  Each slick, full color card has an appealing painting of modern style with bright colors and a one line quote for the day. The reverse side of each elaborates on the saying in a couple of quick paragraphs, which have deep meaning. These are wonderful to leave around the house or office to brighten your own or someone else's day.  For example, \\"What's my BIG hurry? (It's all for joy.)  All is well.\\"  Reverse side says: \\"What's the big hurry?  Youre not ever going to get it done, so what are you racing toward?  Every single activity that you're involved in is for one purpose only, and that is to give you a moment of joy. That's why it all exists. Lighten up. Laugh more. Appreciate more. All is well.\\" Priced at $15.95 from Hay House, these would make excellent holiday gifts.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R2Z2QARI0Z9KKL	1556508441	688932324	Adventure Guide to Pacific Northwest (Adventure Guides)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Well Organized, Valuable Guide Book	Adventure Guide to the Pacific Northwest  by Don & Marjorie Young is a Hunter Travel Guide which I  can also highly recommend.  We love traveling in the Pacific Northwest but there is so very much to see I couldn't imagine how they could get it all into one book, but they have done a very good job of it!  The organization of the book makes it easy to find just what you want in each area from restaurants and places to stay in all price ranges, tours, camping, information sources, maps, etc.  I especially like the sections called Adventures which have separate catagories for on foot, horseback, wheels, water, and snow.  This is a guide worth having and nominally priced	2005-01-08
US	35509648	RS5A89M23JMP1	0974607851	284653088	Dangerous De-Liaisons: What's Really Behind the War between France and the U.S.	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Why Can't Our Politicians Get Along?	Dangerous De-Liaisons, What's Really Behind the War Between France and the US by Jean-Marie Colombani and Walter Wells is very pertinent to read during this pre-election period in the United States. This book was written by two of the world's leading newspaper editors. Colombani is editor of Le Monde, the major French newspaper, and Wells is an American who is editor in chief of The International Herald Tribune. The book has the format of a friendly but very well informed conversation between the two editors. The reader learns much of the history of the two nations and the conflict over the US war in Iraq.  These men focus on the reasons behind the deteriorated relationship between France and the US, the new world in which terrorism has become a chief concern worldwide, and the rapidly developing economic impact of the growing European Union.  If you are remotely interested in the way the world views the US and the international concept of the US since the end of the Cold War, this book is vital to read. You will gain insights into why relationships have deteriorated and what is behind the scenes that the general public does not know. It is a fascinating read to learn and explore \\"the chilling question: Can our two nations once again unite to make the world a better place - or has our war only just begun?\\"	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R3EFMBEHT20TON	0071438297	926204058	Unbelievably Good Deals and Great Adventures That You Absolutely Can't Get Unless You're over 50, 2005-2006 (Unbelievably Good Deals and Great Adventures ... Absolutely Can't Get Unless You're over 50)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	This Book Pays For Itself Many Times Over	UNBELIEVABLY GOOD DEALS AND GREAT ADVENTURES THAT YOU  ABSOLUTELY CAN'T GET UNLESS YOU'RE OVER 50  is by Joan Rattner Heilman (Contemporary Books).  This book has been termed the \\"Bargain Hunter's Bible,\\" and we agree.  Joan tells us how to take advantage of every imaginable good deal in the travel industry: from airfares, hotels, rental cars, cruises, trains, buses, tours,skiing, parks, shopping, insurance, and even taxes.  She tells how to join organizations which help get the best deals.  Especially helpful is the section on how to get help and services in various places around the world.  There are ideas for all types of travel, from luxury to economy, all at great savings. And there are many ideas which apply at home also, including ways to volunteer and special interest groups to join.  This book is a must for anyone over 50.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R141N14Y1LF1SQ	0961795980	597914916	Savannah in 88 Pictures	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful Keepsake Photos	Savannah In 88 Pictures  By Lisa D. Hoff is a beautiful book of color photos with one paragraph about each of the exquisite sights.  The introductory history is in English, French, German, Japanese, and Spanish, and excellent maps are included.  A small, (about 5 X 7) format quality paperback makes it affordable and the perfect souvenir of your trip, with each photo of beautiful framing quality.  You can also order it to help plan the sites you wish to visit.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R1IEU0UKWIH83B	0973418907	309968479	Shortcut to Spirituality: Mastering the Art of Inner Peace	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Hate the title...The Book is Terrific!	Shortcut to Spirituality, Mastering the Art of Inner Peace by Bob Gottfried, Ph.D. is much more than you would imagine at first glance. We are asked to review so many books and I almost turned this one down because of the title. For years I have been a serious student of spirituality with many masters credits in theology. Because this subject is so dear to my heart and is a subject so very deep that many devotees have spent their lives trying to find the path to peace, I felt it was a sacriledge to try to find a shortcut. I thought it was impossible to think of shortcutting... but how wrong I was!  I am so very glad I not only read the book but spent many weeks studying it deeply and experiencing the various practices Gottfried suggests. How do I begin to review a book that has had so much personal impact in my life? Although I still dislike the title, this book is a deeply authentic and dedicated master guide to finding one's own path to deep peace and personal fulfillment through a spirit-based foundation and outlook on life, regardless of one's religious affiliation or lack thereof.  Dr. Gottfried is the clinical director of Advanced Wellness Programs and Advanced Cognitive Enhancement (ACE) Clinics and a consultant for the Canadian Centre for Integrative Medicine and Global Health Management. He was not a religious person as he set out to discover this Path to deep inner peace in order to help his patients with chronic pain, sleep disorders and cognitive difficulties from ongoing stress, so this is a terrific book for even athiests to read.  Anyone will reap the benefits of resolving pain from the past and learning to focus within and to develop habits that will create personal peace that comes from integration of our body, mind, and Spirit.  This peace will affect positively those around you and ultimately the whole world. Dr. Gottfried ably tells you step-by-step how to do this within your own life, not in \\"preachy or churchy\\" language but with the knowledge and professional experience of a respected psychologist and the insights and wisdom of personal experience of walking the path he teaches.  You could spend thousands of dollars in a counselor's office and not reap as many benefits as you will from this book. You could, as I have, spend years studying theology and not find as direct a path to where you yearn to be in your heart. You must read this book!nd professional experience of a respected psychologist and the insights and wisdom of personal experience of walking the path he teaches.  You could spend thousands of dollars in a counselor's office and not reap as many benefits as you will from this book. You could, as I have, spend years studying theology and not find as direct a path to where you yearn to be in your heart. You must read this book!	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R1CZ49UYH2LM13	0595297374	971706574	Discovering Denali: A Complete Reference Guide to Denali National Park and Mount McKinley, Alaska	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Very Enticing Book: Now I Have To Go There!	Discovering Denali by Dow Scroggins is a \\"Complete Reference Guide to Denali National Park and Mount McKinley, Alaska,\\" and the subtitle says it all.  This book  is a must for anyone going to Denali National Park area or to attempt climbing Mount McKinley (Denali). Scroggins details the beauties, necessities, delights, and dangers of this Wilderness adventure. He is specific in telling what equipment to bring and what to expect on many different trails. He covers all seasons individually. You'll also find an excellent guide to animals and plants found in this special area of the United States.  He has included an interesting history of Denali National Park, driving and transportation information, as well as lodging and restaurants, activities, maps, and calendar of events.  This is the best guide we have seen of what you need to know before you go to this vast and beautiful wilderness, whether you are a one day sight-seer, a camper, a back-pack hiker, or an expert mountain climber.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R3LKMPZ4PB1NVV	0743442202	342833973	The Mystery of Love	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mystical Approach to Christian and Jewish Concept of Love	The Mystery of Love by Marc Gafni is a most unusual and fascinating approach to the esoteric teachings of the ancient Jewish Mystics, which apply also to the Christian Old Testament, since it is contains the Jewish Holy Texts.  In an, at first shocking, simile Rabbi Gafni explains that the Shachina love is the feminine side of God, and that the Holy of Holies and the Temple of Solomon were filled with male and female embracing figures to demonstrate that to be whole we must be in touch with both our male and female aspects of love.  For centuries the great Western religions have divorced themselves from the Shachina and embraced only the masculine concept of God.  Gafni uses human sexuality to reveal his points of emphasis of the need for us as humans and as Religious Traditions to unite the masculine and feminine in our concept of God and of the world, in order to promote the highest good for humankind and the Earth.  This is a beautifully written, thoroughly documented and researched book by a Rabbi of great wisdom, knowledge, and faith. It is a powerful acknowledgement for our times and can have important influence on Wester Faith today. It is great wisdom and insight in pleasant to read text, good reading for a trip or for daily meditation.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	RJ4GRGOB5XBSI	B0006RRFZU	48256317	See Savannah: Your guide to the hostess city	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Get This if You Visit Savannah	See Savannah: Your Guide to the Hostess City  By T.D. Conner is a wonderful history and guidebook of the \\"forrest city.\\"  It is well designed to give interesting historic facts and little vignettes and stories of nearly every place in the city.  Mr. Conner has detailed walking, driving, and bicycling tours, maps, recipes, and just things to know.  Every visitor will want this guide.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	RGA2B6491SGOM	0761537317	127725075	The New Honeymoon Planner: Selecting the Ideal Location and Planning the Trip of a Lifetime	Books	5	6	6	N	N	If You Ever Travel Get This Book!	The New Honeymoon Planner by Sharon Naylor is perhaps the most thorough and helpful general travel guidebooks I have ever discovered. It is perfect for the groom or couple planning a honeymoon, whether a luxury trip or on a tight budget.  However, it is NOT just for honeymooners!  It has excellent trip planning tips for EVERY kind of trip, and you will save many, many times over the price of the book ($16.95 US) in the first trip Sharon's tips help you plan. She has covered every kind of travel, both domestic and foreign and every kind of trip from luxury cruises to back-packing in the jungles.  And she directs you to a wealth of internet sites that will answer any problem you could ever encounter on a trip or supply any need for the travels. THIS BOOK SHOULD BELONG TO EVERYONE WHO PLANS ANY KIND OF TRIP TO ANYWHERE!	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R34JTWLCU1FR30	0964012553	465990676	Heart & Soul of the Train	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very Good Read	Heart and Soul of the Train by Mauris Emeka is a delightful little book for train lovers. In it Mauris tells many tales of his adventures and his everyday experiences in his decades as a train attendant dealing with the public and loving his job.  He describes many rides across the United States.  He has authored another excellent book telling how almost anyone who can observe a careful diet can prevent or cure cancer.  These cures have been know since the early 1900's but are not money-makers for the businesses who are supported by cancer.  Everyone should read Fear Cancer No More.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R3GVXV8WL580QH	1588431231	13027380	Cancn, Cozumel & The Riviera Maya Alive!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Plan Your Trip With This Book	CANCUN, COZUMEL, AND THE RIVIERA MAYA ALIVE!  from Hunter Publishing Travel Guides, is a wonderfully readable, in-depth guide to everything you could ever want to know about this glorious Gulf Coast area of Mexico's \\"hitch-hiker thumb.\\" Bruce and June Conord, who have traveled the world, chose this location for all their free time to relax, and their enthusiasm makes readers eager to go there also.  The guide is organized in an easy to follow way, arranged by geography and popularity. Their own evaluations of hotels, restaurants, and attractions are listed up-front. I was particularly impressed that they flatly refuse to mention those places which have raped the environment.  The tips and warnings in the book are worth the reading for any Mexican traveler, gleaned from their years of experience.  History, conversion charts, temperature and climate guides, and shopping hints are all readably presented and easy to grasp at a glance. We recommend this book for anyone dreaming of the sun and surf!  Plan your trip with it.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	RWHJWPE714S3F	038550988X	22542460	A Travel Guide to Heaven	Books	3	9	22	N	N	Intriguing To Ponder	A TRAVEL GUIDE TO HEAVEN by Anthony DeStefano  Although this book has gotten rave reviews in many sectors, I found it a bit unreal and too materialistic.  DeStefano's idea of heaven is like a rich person's ideal sight-seeing tour, and he takes you on a real tour of all the places and experiences you will have if you live right and die good.  According to other reviews this is ideal for Christians who take the promises of gold paved streets and pearly gates literally, and it is of great comfort to dying patients and their families. I guess the book serves as a bright, fanciful tourist guide for people who need that kind of belief, but I prefer to think of Heaven as a place of deep mystery and no need of materialism, a place where God IS, and that will be all that matters to us then.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R20SV3AJHTW8JI	0141010908	433541250	Time Out New York (Time Out Guides)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fun and Simple To Follow Guide to the Vast CIty	Time Out New York (TONY) , which is updated annually, is a MUST for anyone visiting the city. The first chapter is a concise and fascinating history of New York, outlining important events throughout its vast history. Proceeding through this indespensible guidebook, you'll find detailed information about where to stay, eat, and drink, and the places and events not to miss in each neighborhood of the vibrant city. Because the guide is written by locals, the recommendations and warnings are pertinent and current from people \\"in the know,\\" who astutely guide residents and visitors through the maze that would be overwhelming without this terrific guide. Each place listed also has address, phone, and often websited listed, as well as prices and review. The maps in the back of the book are easy to read and the book is well organized and indexed	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R17ASPSZBQDTVT	0738706353	928204367	Yoga: Anytime, Anywhere	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Perfect For Anyone with No Time and No Place to Exercise	Yoga Anytime, Anywhere  by Carol Blackman and Elise Browning Miller is not just another book about how to do yoga exercizes.  This one is REALLY designed for people on the go in busy lives who don't feel they have time to take out for exercize.  The authors have creatievely presented traditional yoga moves to be done anywhere when you have two minutes or an hour.  You can do some of these in the work place, on the plane, in a hotel room, or sitting at your desk!  With great emphasis on proper breathing (prana) throughout, the book also has chapters on yoga for regulating your hormones during menstrual cycle relief, pregnancy, and healthy menopause.  For when you are tired you'll also find chapters on Energizing Your Whole Body with postures that work \\"better than caffeine and are completely organic!\\"  There are special poses for stretching and preparing for sports. And finally you'll find techniques for just relaxing and finding balance in your life. Each pose and exercize throughout the book is photographically illustrated, so the book serves well for \\"do it yourself\\" and requires no equipment. You'll love this book!  A terrific gift for any age,	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R1I6NPCH7N61E	1903471702	548662630	Footprint South American Handbook 2004	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Guide:  Don't Go Without It!	Footprint South American Handbook 2004, 80th edition, is largely the achievement of experienced Editor and writer Ben Box, who has a doctorate in Spanish and Portuguese studies from London University and many years of extensive travel in South America.  This handbook is far more than a travel guidebook. This book is like having a personal guide who goes ahead of you and tells you what wonderful things to expect, how to plan for them, and how to avoid the pitfalls and dangers involved in whatever place in South America you wish to go, no matter how populous or how remote your destination or mode of travel. With some full color photos and maps and many detailed maps and descriptions of small areas, this is a book to pour over as you plan any trip to South America.  The handbook details points of interest, details about transportation, eating, sleeping, emergency information, climate, festivals and shopping in each place, as well as some historical information in a far more comprehensive way and more thoroughly than any other travel guide we have seen.  All the contact information for each place is there for phone, address, email, and fax. Footprint Handbooks are a MUST for almost any destination you could choose. Footprint South American Handbook should be your first purchase before making any plans to go to South America. With this book your trip can be planned by you or your travel agent to suit your every need, including your budget, so that you will not have any unpleasant surprises as you travel in the earth's most exciting continent.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R2FJGWQ9LCMHCX	1401903584	28767254	The Unbelievable Truth	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Overcome Your Fears and Doubts	The Unbelievable Truth by Gordon Smith is a very personal and informative exploration of life after death by a man who could see spirits of the departed very early in life. Gordon Smith is a well-known medium from England who has denied, questioned, tried to hide, and then developed his abilities to communicate with the spirits of the dead. Now he devotes his time to helping people who are in great distress of grief have consolation or directions from the Other Side. His powers and abilities have been tested in many different ways scientifically and he has been verified each time as being authentic and not a fraud. He cannot explain how or why he has this ability, but through the deep questions he has asked through the decades he has gleaned much valuable information which is comforting and enlightening and dispells the fears we have about the after world. The documented accounts in this book are fascinating and will give you pause to question your own fears and perhaps to look more deeply at your own denied abilities.  A very interesting read that helps us learn about our consciousness, to overcome fears and doubts, and to accept what once seemed beyond belief, knowing that it just might be everyday normal.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R3IYIVFWSPO101	0966914031	87038442	Honey, Let's Get a Boat... A Cruising Adventure of America's Great Loop	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Terrific Read...Even If You Don't Own a Boat	Honey, Let's Get a Boat\\"<br /><br />  by Ron and Eva Stob<br /><br />Here is a must read for not only boating enthusiasts but all those who ever imagined themselves pulling up stakes and setting out on a year or more adventure of travel.  Ron and Eva Stob do a wonderful job of recounting their year-long journey on a forty-foot trawler, which began in Florida and circled up along the intercoastal waterway to New York and then up the Hudson River to Lakes George and Champlain to the Saint Lawrence River in Canada and on to the Great Lakes and Chicago and then down the river systems to the Gulf of Mexico and back to Florida.  This route, known as \\"America's Great Loop,\\" took them through waterways, locks, scenery, history, and cultures as varied as one could find anywhere.<br /><br />Even though the book is written in the first person by Ron as the narrator, I can assure you, on the basis of having had the good fortune of meeting this delightful couple, Eva had a big part in helping relate the experiences encountered throughout their year of traveling these waterways. The book is a great read from start to finish and includes an appendix, which is a guidebook to anyone contemplating a similar venture. From the interesting and humorous aspects of just how this couple took the leap of quitting their jobs and finding and purchasing the trawler to their final encounter with the tropical storm Gordon,( becoming Hurricane Gordon,) as they returned to Florida after their year of cruising, the reader will be fascinated by vivid descriptions of places and cultures, as well as the difficulties and near disasters.  Ron's \\"tongue in cheek\\" satire and humor and his honest self-criticism enhance the imagery of the book and bring alive the characters and places.<br /><br />The book relates as much about the history and culture of the places visited along the way as it does the process of navigating the waterways.  Even though I had been to a number of places mentioned, I was not aware of all the history and cultural aspects the narrator reveals.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in travel, by whatever means, as it is just the thing for the intellectually curious.<br /><br />This book is published by Raven Cove Publishing of Greenback, Tennessee, and can be ordered at Raven Cove Publishing; P.O. Box 168, Greenback, TN 37742-0168 or phone 865/856-7888.  The book is also available through Amazon Books on the Internet. And the authors are available for speaking engagements.was not aware of all the history and cultural aspects the narrator reveals. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in travel, by whatever means, as it is just the thing for the intellectually curious. <br /> <br />This book is published by Raven Cove Publishing of Greenback, Tennessee, and can be ordered at Raven Cove Publishing; P.O. Box 168, Greenback, TN 37742-0168 or phone 865/856-7888.  The book is also available through Amazon Books on the Internet. And the authors are available for speaking engagements.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R1P0ZWFRANSXLQ	1556509081	333930111	Adventure Guide to the Yucatan, Cancun & Cozumel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Terrific, Complete Guide You'll Need	Adventure Guide To The Yucatan:  Cancun & Cozumel is another terrific Hunter Travel Guide by Bruce and June Conord.  They include everything you could possibly want to know about the entire area, city by city and separate listing for all the best points of interest.  Their history included for each place is lightly and readably written with a little humourous touch.  They even include movies and light reading to make your trip more enjoyable.  And all the Spanish you may need to know is in the excellent Appendix. This book, which won the Natia Best Travel Book Award is a must if you're going there.  Bruce & June Conord are pleased to announce the publication of the third edition of their book,  from Hunter Publishing. Completely revised and updated for 2004, the award-winning title now includes 32 pages of full color photographs taken by the authors, as well as nearly 100 black and white pictures<br /><br />illustrating 420 pages of useful information	2005-01-08
US	35509648	RJTUQX42LD32X	3886181030	57732626	Sweden: Explore the World (Nelles Guides)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If You Want To Know Sweden...Get This Book!	Nelles Guide/Sweden by Gerhard Lemmer, Birgit Kramer, and Otto Steiger  not only gives the reader and traveler great information about the country but also is beautifully done with numerous exquisite photographs of all  regions of the country. The layout of the book is very user friendly from its captivating narration of the history and culture of Sweden to it's well organized information on 9 travel areas throughout the country as well as detailed discription and advice on the best way to get around and see all of the metropolis of Stockholm. Throughout each section on the various regions to be explored, excellent maps correlate places and points of scenic interest through numbering in the narrative that corresponds to numbers found on the maps of the region. This along with giving specific distances between places and time needed in travel gives the reader a great orientation. At the end of each section about a particular region the authors have added a helpful cataloging of hotels, restaurants, hostles, nightclubs, and significant points of interest by town or specific area with telephone numbers, dates open, and price range. By coming at the end of each section this information does not break up the flow of the narrative and detract from the enchantment of the area to be explored.<br /><br />The photography coupled with the narration made this one of the most enticing travel books I have read. I felt lured to Sweden and found myself facinated by the discriptions of what one would see and experience traveling through the countryside. The authors did a wonderful job of bringing in the main historical dates and happenings when describing a town or area without losing sight of the scenic interests. I found other travel books on Sweden did not give me a feeling for the country as this Nelles Guide did. Although some books like Frommer's Sweden gave more overall information, they lacked the wonderful pictures and narrative that bring out the character of the country. My desire to visit Sweden was greatly increased from reading Nelles Guide of the country; whereas, the other travel books on Sweden left me with no feeling for how Sweden might differ from any other European country. I would greatly recommend Nelles Guide to Sweden to those wishing to visit the country as well as anyone that would like to know what the country of Sweden is like.y. My desire to visit Sweden was greatly increased from reading Nelles Guide of the country; whereas, the other travel books on Sweden left me with no feeling for how Sweden might differ from any other European country. I would greatly recommend Nelles Guide to Sweden to those wishing to visit the country as well as anyone that would like to know what the country of Sweden is like.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R2U4XLFP933OFV	158843396X	669462531	Adventure Guide Paris & lle-de-France (Adventure Guides Series)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Best Guide to Paris	Hunter Travel Guides Adventure Guide to Paris & Ile-de-France by Heather Stimmler-Hall is certainly THE guidebook we wish had been published before our last trip to Paris.  This 450 page book is so well organized and indexed as to teach you everything you want to know about French history and Paris itself before you arrive. With tips of  how to plan your trip within your intended budget and to meet your expectations and all you need to know  about documents etc., this guide is tops. The book helps you get oriented to Paris and its environs, taking each neighborhood and section and detailing places to stay, eat, and cultural events and activities nearby. There are extensive guide sections to shopping and entertainment, culture, and getting around. Additionally there are about 100 pages devoted to side trips for special sites not to miss near Paris, such as Versailles, Fountainebleu, and others. In the final pages of the guidebook you'll learn t he necessary phrases in French to help you get through our stay without too much confusion; however, there is no guide to pronunciation of the phrases.  This Adventure Guide, like others from Hunter Travel Guides, is THE ONE you'll be so glad you selected. (...)	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R1E5Z47S680KZ7	1883991560	18123050	The Gospel of Thomas: Wisdom of the Twin	Books	4	54	55	N	N	Excellent Study Guide for Group Discussions on Thomas	The Gospel of Thomas  By Lynn Bauman is a scholarly translation of the gospel that is now known to be the oldest of the written gospels discovered to date.  It is not a narrative, as the four canonized Biblical gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, but contains only the words which, according to \\"theTwin\\" who wrote it, are the direct teachings of Jesus, the Rabbi, to his Disciples.  This is the Wisdom He imparted only to his close inner circle. Similar to a koan, these cryptic teachings require great thought and are somewhat paradoxical and perplexing.  Dr. Bauman, whose academic credentials are numerous, has translated directly from the original Coptic Greek of the manuscripts which were only discovered in recent years.  Dr. Bauman offers this translation as a thought provoking study guide with inciteful questions to ponder in order to come to your own conclusion as to the meanings of these amazing Wisdom Teachings of Jesus.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R1XS7GXNYSWGMS	1401903320	859888298	Power Animals	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Learn How To Identify Yours	Power Animals - How To Connect with Your Animal Spirit Guide by Steven D. Farmer, Ph.D. Through centuries Shamans have taught people how to find their Spirit Guides and Power Animals, known in some areas as totems. Did you know YOU have Power Animals and Spirit Guides also? In the West in modern times the ability to access this guidance from the unseen world has been squelched for years, but now, through books like this, you can learn how to \\"meet\\" the guide or guides who have been with you since you were born. You can experience how real they are and benefit enormously in decision making by learning how to contact your Power Animal. Dr. Farmer describes many of the spirit animals and their powers and you'll be led through his writing to determine which is yours. It is a fascinating exploration into the paranormal/spiritual side which we all possess.With the aid of the lovely CD which comes with the book you have your own personal guided sessions of meditation in order to meet and get to know your own Power Animal.  When I first closed my eyes I thought this was rubbish, but I was happily STUNNED with the results! You will be too.	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R12Z7GQLKWW63O	1932534008	697397757	The Home Exchange Guide: How to Find Your Free Home Away from Home	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Terrific Concept To Save Travel Money	HOME EXCHANGE GUIDE: HOW TO FIND YOUR FREE HOME AWAY FROM HOME!  by M.T. Simon and T.T. Baker.  The authors have compiled an extensive guidebook, the first of its kind, telling readers all they need to know about how to find a wonderful, free place to stay almost anywhere in the world, by offering their own home in a holiday exchange.  The book details how to go about finding the homes in the place you desire to go, what questions to ask, how to make all the arrangements and set up your own home for the safe exchange.  You'll learn about perks you can offer or expect, such as car exchange, etc.  Authors also cover how to handle disappointments, what to do in emergencies, and how to leave the home as you hope they will leave yours.  Such a home exchange frees up your money to be spent on nice extras instead of lodging, for a super vacation almost anywhere you dream of.  Although the book does not list the homes for exchange, you will find a great listing of websites and places to find the homes listed and to list your own.  For travelers who find the idea of a home exchange appealing, this book is an indispensable guide which covers almost any aspect you could think of	2005-01-08
US	35509648	R3V7PT4E5JR0IO	1401902774	362915928	Chakra Clearing	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Review by http://www.realtraveladventures.com/booksandaudio	Chakra Clearing - Awakening Your Spiritual Power To Know and Heal by Doreen Virtue, Ph. D. This is an easy to follow and simply guide to understanding chakras, or energy centers, within our bodies. Dr. Virtue teaches the location and purpose of each chakra and how to open each so that you feel energized and healthy instead of tired and stressed. She has easy to visualize techniques to help you let go of past relationships or problems that keep you tied up inside and she has helpful exercizes to do in order to free yourself through forgiveness of those who have hurt you. The book comes with a CD for Morning and Evening Meditation to Awaken Your Spiritual Power.  This is such refreshing and peace-giving way to start and end your day. For the BEST gift you could give YOURSELF order this beautiful little book and set aside a couple of hours to read and learn to practice the exercizes. You'll be SO glad you did!	2004-11-15
