US	35513484	R1TJ5QT31X64CY	1593930151	138449866	Daws Butler, Characters Actor	Books	5	6	6	N	N	the voice king of Hanna-Barbera	This book is much in the same pattern and design as Ben Ohmart's other books. I have the Paul Frees book and i have this one...Daws Butler became a part of my psyche somewhere in the 1980's. I was reading voice credits on cartoons on a USA Network series called \\"Cartoon Express\\". They aired a series called \\"Yogi's Treasure Hunt\\" as well as \\"Yogi's Space Race\\". Daws Butler's name was coming up. Later on i was in K-Mart reading voice credits on the back of cartoon home videos. I found a video of \\"The Jetsons meet the Flintstones\\". I read Daws Butler's name on there, too!<br /><br />I also found the names of Don Messick and Mel Blanc, too...all three top voice actor's. While Mel Blanc IS the most famous because of his work in theatrical cartoons and the fact that Mel's voice was on radio {over 30 years associated with the Jack Benny radio and TV shows!}...but while Mel Blanc had the more familiar name, Daws Butler was busy creating a large group of character voices for made-for-TV cartoons and in some cases, TV commercials. This book by Ben Ohmart tells the Daws Butler story...there are even passages and personal letters written by Daws sprinkled throughout the book. There was a PBS documentary about Daws that aired in the 1980's. It was called \\"Voice Magician\\". I have that video and it is amazing to watch Daws go from one character to the next.<br /><br />This book is a more expanded and comprehensive spin on that PBS show. Not many people realize that Daws Butler's voice graced the cartoons from the mid '40s through the mid '80s! They will learn all about Daws and his strong work ethic and his style of voice acting. For Daws, doing a \\"voice\\" required practice and training. He believed that voice actor's must play the part physically as well as vocally. This meant, Daws would become bouncy while doing the dialogue for SNAGGLEPUSS. He felt it helped him do a better vocal. YOGI BEAR, for example, Daws would stand with his shoulders rared back and bellow the words into the microphone. For HUCKLEBERRY HOUND, Daws would say that he would just think slow and talk slow and add in a southern accent BUT it must be the correct southern accent. A North Carolina southern sounds different from a Kentucky southern...or a Georgia southern.<br /><br />Known for his teaching, he opened up a voice actor work-shop and used his acting methods and beliefs to teach people the art of voice acting. The pictures in this book show Daws at various stages of his career. Stan Freberg is also talked about in this book...he and Daws were a team during the late '40s through the late '50s with a string of comedy singles AND a children's TV show \\"TIME FOR BEANY\\". Daws also narrated MANY cartoons for Tex Avery on MGM. At MGM, he and Don Messick became friends and both of them would later become the sound of Hanna-Barbera during the early years of made-for-TV cartoons, 1957-1967. On page 112, we see Daws in character as SNAGGLEPUSS. The look on his face almost makes one think he's saying: \\"Heaven's to Murgatroyd!\\".<br /><br />That picture is a good example of Daws physically getting into the character as well as vocally speaking the role. The SNAGGLEPUSS section talks about Bert Lahr...that's the actor whose voice Daws used as an inspiration for SNAGGLEPUSS. On page 93 we see Daws in the recording studio with Captiol Records exectives. Also in the picture are June Foray and Stan Freberg. Daws is standing beside June...Freberg is looking up into the ceiling...Foray is the only female in the picture and so she isn't hard to spot!<br /><br />On page 102 we see Daws in the studio with Don Messick and Doug Young. Young was the voice of DOGGIE DADDY and DING-A-LING to Daws Butler's AUGIE DOGGIE and HOKEY WOLF respectively. Don Messick was typically playing supporting roles and walk-on's during these two cartoon segments. As with the Paul Frees book, Ohmart lists nearly everything Daws was a part of during his long career. Daws only had ONE recurring theatrical cartoon character...the French speaking wolf LOOPY De LOOP, a nice wolf who was always getting into trouble because of what he was: a wolf! People would see Loopy as a wolf and automatically assume Loopy was dangerous and once again, Loopy would be running for his life! Hahaha. All the radio appearances are noted...all the characters...all the vinyl children's albums are listed...this, along with the Paul Frees book, are essential reading for voice actor fans or those wanting to read about the legends of voice acting!! I hope Ben Ohmart one day writes a book about two more voice giants: Mel Blanc and Don Messick.LOOPY De LOOP, a nice wolf who was always getting into trouble because of what he was: a wolf! People would see Loopy as a wolf and automatically assume Loopy was dangerous and once again, Loopy would be running for his life! Hahaha. All the radio appearances are noted...all the characters...all the vinyl children's albums are listed...this, along with the Paul Frees book, are essential reading for voice actor fans or those wanting to read about the legends of voice acting!! I hope Ben Ohmart one day writes a book about two more voice giants: Mel Blanc and Don Messick.	2005-09-24
US	35513484	R1QIJGYPXCU3VH	1593930046	384743478	Welcome, Foolish Mortals...The Life and Voices of Paul Frees	Books	5	17	18	N	N	"...Natasha...stop moose and squirrel..."	In this nearly 300 page book, Ben Ohmart with help from some of Paul's friends and family, tells the life and times of Paul Frees...one of the most under-rated and one of the more mysterious figures in the world of voice acting. I named the review of this book \\"Natasha...stop moose and squirrel...\\" because of Paul's famous role as Boris Badenov on the cartoon, Rocky and Bullwinkle. I bought this book as soon as i learned it was on sale and i ALSO have the one Ben Ohmart wrote on Daws Butler. One of the things i loved about this book was the credits section.<br /><br />The author pin-pointed virtually everything he could find in which Paul Frees made an appearance. Paul was also a face-actor who appeared in a string of movies as supporting player or walk-on but his voice was where he made his money. I also love the pictures that Ben Ohmart put in this book! You will find that Paul, upon reading this book, was a jack-of-all-trades. He could write, paint, sing, act...the author also goes \\"behind the scenes\\" and reveals aspects of Paul's personal life. But, the voices are what most readers will be interested in the most and Paul lent his voice to a staggering amout of projects through the years in radio, TV, and on records. On page 193 there's a priceless picture of Paul and Red Skelton during the recording session of the cartoon movie \\"Rudolph's Shiny New Year\\" in 1976, the year i was born!<br /><br />Paul and his famed female voice actress co-star, June Foray, are seen on page 174. On page 176, Paul is seen with Vincent Price. Paul had recorded some things for Price's horror movie \\"The Abominable Dr. Phibes\\"...in fact, the movie spawned a vinyl album/soundtrack of sorts in which Paul is heard singing several songs impersonating celebrities {Al Jolson; Humphrey Bogart; Ronald Colman; among others}. Paul Frees lived an interesting life and we haven't even began to talk about his years with Disney and UPA...his various commercial characters like The Pillsbury Doughboy and Tucan Sam OR his secret life as a spy!!! GET THIS BOOK TO READ MORE ABOUT THAT!! Paul Frees can be heard on countless cartoons on the Boomerang channel. I'd suggest you also seek out the DVD's of Rocky and Bullwinkle to HEAR Paul at his peak as Boris Badenov, Inspector Fenwick, and Captain Wrongway Peachfuzz...plus get this book to learn more about this under-rated legend.is secret life as a spy!!! GET THIS BOOK TO READ MORE ABOUT THAT!! Paul Frees can be heard on countless cartoons on the Boomerang channel. I'd suggest you also seek out the DVD's of Rocky and Bullwinkle to HEAR Paul at his peak as Boris Badenov, Inspector Fenwick, and Captain Wrongway Peachfuzz...plus get this book to learn more about this under-rated legend.	2005-09-21
US	35513484	R11QA6D1CCIICZ	0070399042	752828417	Sweet Life: Adventures On The Way To Paradise	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Barry speaks his mind and i agree with him	in this book, which i finally NOW have, i was expecting to read a dark and gloomy rise to fame but there wasn't any. Manilow's fame came by accident and the pressures of the business and the reluctance to accept the fame, in the beginning, is a refreshing story. Barry talks about his early musical career in the '60s before being pushed into the spotlight by Clive Davis. all facets of Barry's career is talked about in here. there's a chapter called &quot;Read 'Em and Weep&quot;, which was the title of his huge AC #1 hit in 1984. The story part of the book ends during the &quot;Paradise Caf&eacute;&quot; album in 1984 but the discography in the back includes his 1985 and 1986 material. the pictures contained in this book are rare...you see Barry with black hair, combed to the side, during his days with CBS prior to hooking up with Bette Middler. there's also a picture of Barry on a beach with no shirt on...there's another one where he has a small beard! if anything, this book helps paint the picture of Barry Manilow. It allows people who really never followed his career in-depth to know how the off-stage &quot;barry&quot; was always at odds with the on-stage &quot;BARRY&quot; throughout much of his biggest years. There's also chapters that talk about the commercial aspect of music and the heart-felt aspect of music and why Manilow's songs were poignant yet had a commercial &quot;sound&quot; to them. This is a complex story of a man living the life of a super-star. Being a writer, Barry was also stunned whenever a song he never co-wrote would become a hit for him. &quot;I Write the Songs&quot; wasn't written by Barry...but neither was a few other big songs like &quot;Mandy&quot;, &quot;Looks Like We Made It&quot;, or &quot;Read 'Em and Weep&quot;...Barry said that it took years before he could accept their success. Barry has changed a lot of his personal opinions since the mid '80s. Nowadays whenever he does a CD he's performing &quot;outside songs&quot;, as he calls them, even more than his own material, which wouldn't have happened in his past. above all else, this book shows that &quot;Barry Manilow&quot; is a human and has feelings, too. no artist should ever have to go through what he went through; and all he ever wanted was to spread joy and happiness through his music and even today he's still causing happiness with his style of pop music.en more than his own material, which wouldn't have happened in his past. above all else, this book shows that &quot;Barry Manilow&quot; is a human and has feelings, too. no artist should ever have to go through what he went through; and all he ever wanted was to spread joy and happiness through his music and even today he's still causing happiness with his style of pop music.	2004-04-27
US	35513484	R7FFJACETN22S	0823076954	556090587	The Billboard Book of Number Two Singles	Books	5	2	3	N	N	okay for chart thinking people	#1 isn't everything, neither is #2, #3, #4, and on down the chart. if a person likes a song, they don't care what chart peak it reached. but, this book is a fascinating study of major hits that people assume hit #1 but didn't. the author also highlights the singles at the top that kept the #2 single from reaching #1. This isn't a Joel Whitburn book so there's nothing obscure or exhaustive...only a list of #2 singles and a few pages of artist achievements. LeAnn Rimes holds the record for the #2 single with the most longevity on the Hot 100: 69 weeks and 3,000,000 copies sold. on the back of the book is says that the author is a passionate music fan and record collector who at the time lived in Iowa.	2004-03-16
US	35513484	RX3ZRSBIXL2VH	0898201241	144493731	Top Country Albums 1964-1997	Books	5	1	2	N	N	amazing book	This book, one of the many in a string of Joel Whitburn chart books, provides information about EVERY album that ever charted on the Country Album chart since it's creation in 1964 to 1997 at any position! it doesn't just spotlight the over-rated Top-40 or Top-10 and it shows an album that might have hit #52 for an artist along with the ones that made the Top-40 or higher, to give a more in-depth picture of an artists album career. PLUS, all Top-10 albums also include the song titles listed!! how amazing is that? George Jones once again holds the record, this time for most charted albums with 80 {1997 data} and of those, 73 of them hit the Top-40. the data has expanded since then, of course, but this is a good start for people who study the country charts like i do and want to know how the charts have changed throughout the years. like in the end of the book, they list various record holders. one that's revealing is the list of &quot;Most Weeks Held #1 Position&quot;, which indicates how many weeks an artist had their albums at #1. There are quite a few that appear like LeAnn Rimes, Tim McGraw, Garth Brooks, and others of the last 10 years that don't even have over 15 albums out yet!!! But those artists rank high on that weeks at #1 list because of their popularity and staying power at #1...LeAnn had 43 weeks total and she hadn't even been out over a year!! so, this part of the book reveals that an artist doesn't necessarily have to issue album after album to experience mega-success once thought to be awarded to established acts only. There is a few pages that feature some album covers through the years, based on sales figures only, which DOES NOT reflect an acceptance from the now diverse and divided country audience. Since so many people buy country CDs now, it's hard to tell which listener in the check-out line or at Amazon.com is really a country or pop fan...so to say that Shania Twain sells tens of millions of albums is mis-leading when i'll bet 2 or 3 million were actual country buyers in the first place and the other millions were pop fans, galvanized by her erotic MTV style music videos. It's only in the late '80s and on through 1997 that the book starts to turn sad when a person looks back at how great country albums once were, both visually AND musically.were actual country buyers in the first place and the other millions were pop fans, galvanized by her erotic MTV style music videos. It's only in the late '80s and on through 1997 that the book starts to turn sad when a person looks back at how great country albums once were, both visually AND musically.	2004-03-16
US	35513484	R2H16Y8WJYJ590	0823076903	928876682	The Billboard Book of Top 40 Hits	Books	5	3	3	N	N	another Whitburn must-have	this book lists EVERY SINGLE ARTIST to ever have a single rank in the Pop Top-40 from 1955-2000. all artists Top-40 singles are listed, their Top-10 hits are in BOLD print. also, below each song are peaks on other charts such as Airplay #3; Sales #8...or if a single reached #1 on another chart, it's also noted: example, &quot;It's a Miracle&quot; by Barry Manilow hit #12 pop and under the title it shows that it hit #1 on the Adult-Contemporary chart for 1 week. Like his country chart books, the pop one also contains record holders and single achievements in the back pages. Because pop music is FULL of one-hit wonders {just look at the '60s and all those R&amp;B groups who were coming and going}, the book is larger than the country one, where artists are given a bit more loyalty/longevity. it's a wonderful look at pop music from 1955-2000 and Whitburn also includes singles that hit the Top-40 on the Sales and Airplay charts for artists but didn't make the Hot 100's Top-40. Example: a single by Amy Grant might not have made the Top-40 of the Hot 100 but it MAY have made the Top-40 of the Sales chart. if so, THAT single is listed as a Top-40 hit with an &quot;S&quot; beside the chart peak to let a reader know the Top-40 peak was from the Sales chart. if you want to go further than the start of the &quot;rock era&quot;, Whitburn also has a chart book on Pop Standards {singles prior to 1955} that's also a must-have. i don't have that one...but given his track record, it should be done in loving authority.	2004-03-16
US	35513484	RFXNGIP7OI5PS	0898201292	242615033	Top Country Singles - 1944-1997	Books	5	0	0	N	N	every country chart watcher's dream book	In this book, Joel Whitburn displays his signature style of extra features like &quot;Most Charted Singles&quot;; &quot;Most Top-40 Singles&quot;; &quot;Most Top-10 Singles&quot;; etc. This 4th Edition is spotlighting the years of 1944-1997. Whitburn gives a history of the singles charts and including the Juke Box, Disc Jockey, and Best Seller charts. Whitburn also explains that the Juke Box chart ended in 1957 and in 1958 the other two merged into the Top-30 Country and Western Sides chart and from that point forward as the genre grew and expanded, more chart positions were added and more radio stations were switching to country music that by the dawn of 1973, the chart had expanded to 100 positions from 75 and was by now called Hot Country Singles. This 100 position counterpart to pop music's Hot 100, remained the norm until 1990. Every artist that has ever had a single land on the charts at any position is listed. All Top-200 Artists have their picture next to their section. The book also lists the value of the singles in case anyone comes across them at a flea market or wherever. the prices listed almost always go own as the years progress. Like, one single by an artist is listed at a $5.00 value, but yet the very next one reads only $3.00! then, some artists that go way back, their singles are worth over $50.00 but their value goes down as their career progresses...which i don't understand. let's say an artist may have reached his peak for example, in 1976...but that doesn't mean, in my opinion, that a single from the years following isn't valuable to fans that may need it to complete their collection...and because of the elusiveness and rarity of this single, it has a value placed on it by the fan which goes beyond commercial worth. The price guides are not what the book is all about, but they're listed just like in the &quot;Top Country Albums&quot; book. the bottom line is that this book is necessary for chart freaks like myself that love diving into the history of music and studying what people were buying in a given year or era.tory of music and studying what people were buying in a given year or era.	2004-03-16
US	35513484	R28WW3TJ7NSIH	0823076938	662756517	The Billboard Book of Number One Adult Contemporary Hits	Books	5	4	4	N	N	easy-listening/soft-rock #1 hits	on page 206 &quot;When I Need You&quot; by Leo Sayer is listed as #1 for the week ending April 23, 1977. Within the text, the author mentions Sayer's #9 pop hit &quot;Long Tall Glasses (I Can Dance)&quot;...nowhere does it say &quot;Long Tall Dances&quot; as an earlier review stated. on page 153 is who i call the Adult-Contemporary King, the wonderful Barry Manilow. that page just happens to be all about Manilow's debut, &quot;Mandy&quot;, which was #1 for two weeks on the AC chart starting in December 28, 1974 and on January 18, 1975 it was #1 on the Hot 100, as the book states. This is not a Joel Whitburn book. it's by a guy named Wesley Hyatt. Each #1 single is given mini stories behind the songs. in some of the stories, the author names several singles by the featured artist during the same era that may not have hit #1 but were Top-40 hits. On page 171 it shows The Carpenters at #1 on September 6, 1975 with Neil Sedaka and Phil Cody's &quot;Solitaire&quot;...which Clay Aiken has out now as the b-side of &quot;The Way&quot;. All in all, this book is great for those who want to know the #1 AC hits from the beginning in 1961 through 1998.	2004-03-16
US	35513484	R2JUEVHX7VVDO9	0823079368	676221487	The Essential Monster Movie Guide: A Century of Creature Features on Film, TV, and Video	Books	2	2	2	N	N	not quite	i did a fast skimming through this book and noticed that for an Essential Monster Movie Guide, it certainly doesn't praise or hype the genre that well. this book comes across like it was written by an elitist who's too good for horror. nearly every movie/special gets a low rating and i can't understand why a book like this that could've been a good companion to the horror fan would be so anti-horror as a whole. horror fans, in general, want to be be entertained and or scared...i for one don't want logical stories and things that make sense IF it detracts from the entertainment factor because typically what makes sense and uses logic in horror is BORING. it gets 2 stars from me because it offers a diverse selection of films and includes mini biographies of horror legends like Vincent Price, Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing, Lon Chaney, Boris Karloff, etc. But for a horror movie book, the writers certainly didn't help their genre by bad-mouthing it so much in this book.	2004-03-15
US	35513484	R1KMG95UIHJAJO	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	5	5	14	N	N	a breath of fresh air	i'm reading the 2004 paperback edition of this book. Sean Hannity hosts a radio show from 3-6pm following Rush in most markets. In this book, Hannity talks about the liberals and Democrats and how hostile they get if any of their viewpoints are questioned. Hannity also tells us about the liberal bias in the media, and why conservatives and Republicans are more successful on talk radio. he offers some statistics that when Rush came along, AM radio only had 300 stations that programmed news/talk. but by 2001 the number had grown to 1,400. Hannity credits the Clinton years (1993-2001) as the reason talk-radio became so successful because the people who had a different view weren't given proper spotlight in the national media {the ones with an opposing view to anything Clinton did were branded right-wing radicals, bigoted, chauvenistic, and part of Hillary Clinton's pet-project of dreaming up the vast right-wing conspiracy}. Hannity calls Rush the Babe Ruth of Talk Radio, which is accurate. on page 51, Hannity talks about the liberal immigration plan and the name calling from liberals. Pete Wilson in 1995 was called a racist by Democrats because he didn't want to open the borders of California to immigrants because statistics show that a majority of them won't become legal and productive and they eventually abuse social programs as a way of living. However, as usual, because Republicans oppose the liberal plan of open borders, we're collectively called racists because we're being careful and cautious about who should come into the country. now more than ever, you can't apply a pre 9/11 concept to a country post 9/11 because it's wreckless, which is Hannity's point in some of the last chapters. Hannity has often said that if the immigration rules were enforced during the '90s, there might've been a 50-50 chance that the terrorists of 9/11 wouldn't have been so advanced and superior in their massacre because they would've been watched until they became legal. i give the book 5 stars because it's great and it says a lot of things Republicans and new people to the political process MUST know! Hannity also hosts a show on Fox News Channel with liberal partner Alan Colmes which is #1 and a stat that most people down-play because of the CNN competition of Larry King, whose own career is a fabulous read but his political views are something close to Ted Kennedy. Sean Hannity's book is a breath of fresh air and honest, as opposed to Al Franken's book whose title alone says it all and shows who he's catering to: a segment of America that simply hates all things Republican and George Bush no matter how right we are. i also suggest the purchase of his newest book, &quot;Deliver Us From Evil&quot;, which contains MORE reasons to dis-trust and question liberalism.ook 5 stars because it's great and it says a lot of things Republicans and new people to the political process MUST know! Hannity also hosts a show on Fox News Channel with liberal partner Alan Colmes which is #1 and a stat that most people down-play because of the CNN competition of Larry King, whose own career is a fabulous read but his political views are something close to Ted Kennedy. Sean Hannity's book is a breath of fresh air and honest, as opposed to Al Franken's book whose title alone says it all and shows who he's catering to: a segment of America that simply hates all things Republican and George Bush no matter how right we are. i also suggest the purchase of his newest book, &quot;Deliver Us From Evil&quot;, which contains MORE reasons to dis-trust and question liberalism.	2004-03-15
US	35513484	R22KTQXMQV26Y6	0312267894	630416400	Vincent Price: A Daughter's Biography	Books	3	23	37	N	N	well, it's a great book but...	Victoria Price has written a book that i feel is a double edged sword toward her father. i've read it many times and prior to buying the Lucy Chase Williams book on Vincent, i'd pull out Victoria's book as a reference for something obscure or whatever. well, those times are over. it is no secret that Vincent was a liberal politically. his interest in art, conservation, and theatre among other things are stereotypically liberal that we didn't need his daughter to hammer the point home because there's some fans out there, like me, who could care less about their favorite actor or singer's political views and i get offended when it comes across that Republicans like myself shouldn't be a fan of Vincent's because \\"we're bad and want to destroy public TV and arts programs\\", which is how i took it from reading this book. politics you might ask? it's true! Victoria at times brings up the liberalism that she and her parents lived and practiced but she intentionally or accidentally makes people who don't live that way or think as her friends do as being strange or abnormal...in addition, Victoria goes into detail about his successful career on the stage in playhouses all over the United States and abroad and to me this was informative because most people focus on his horror career only. but, here comes another problem, the lack of information on his horror career and his movies in general. what we're treated to are her accounts of what critics or her father had to say about the movies...she offers no first-hand knowledge and SHE IS HIS DAUGHTER so she should know things we don't already...and by the time this book arrived she had PLENTY of time to watch his horror films and get an opinion of them. but, Vincent's dramatic films are also given very little discussion. if we're to believe her, none of her father's films are worth watching unless they recieved high praise from a nationally known critic or were box office successes. she paints a picture that her father's films can't be open to anyone's viewpoint once a critic has stamped it a bomb or whatever. i've seen quite a few of his so-called flops and they were GREAT! near the end of the book we're told about his career on TV and in commercials. his 1981-1989 run as the host of the PBS classic show \\"Mystery!\\" is also touched upon but once again, Victoria showers the chapters with second and third-hand information that family should already know first-hand. the pictures in the book are great!! i love the one where he's with his peers: Karloff, Lorre, and Rathbone during a photo shoot in the early '60s. there is a segment in the book that details Vincent's artistic flamboyance, and she brings up the silly rumors that Vincent was bi-sexual. first off, Vincent's sexual behavior isn't interesting to me! when i'm watching him stare at someone with that menacing look or if he's laughing at some devious scheme he's cooked up, i'm certainly not thinking about who he's sleeping with or who he finds attractive off-screen and so i find this section of the book silly and uncalled for and a MAJOR distraction to what the book was suppose to be, a biography of her father through HER eyes and NOT through the eyes and opinions of critics and industry insiders, which is basically what it turns out to be as a whole!! the only time i see that she gets personal and really says how she feels is when she talks about Vincent and his life with Coral Browne {near the end of the book since the marriage came in 1974}. now, i don't expect Victoria to drop to her knees and kiss the ground her step-mother walked on because after all Coral wasn't Victoria's mother, but at the same time, Corale couldn't have been that awful or else Victoria would've said something DECADES ago to a tabloid paper!! i give this book 3 stars because Victoria doesn't seem to realize that her father's fans aren't interested in rumor, gossip, and alleged communist involvement that were never proven because the accusations were flimsy and hadno weight, so it's baffling as to why she'd plant those kind of thoughts about her father to potential new fans who ONLY know of Vincent through Batman re-runs {Vincent played \\"Egghead\\" on a few episodes}.no weight, so it's baffling as to why she'd plant those kind of thoughts about her father to potential new fans who ONLY know of Vincent through Batman re-runs {Vincent played \\"Egghead\\" on a few episodes}.	2004-03-14
US	35513484	R2LWAJPWCZ5IZC	0806516003	554522938	The Complete Films Of Vincent Price (Citadel Film)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	the complete FEATURE films of Vincent Price	on page 252-253 there's a great picture of Price, Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing, and John Carradine in 1983 during a photo session for the film &quot;House of the Long Shadows&quot;, a movie that i like {however, i hate the character that Arnaz, Jr. played because of his cynicism and lack of respect for traditional horror}. the pictures, incidentally, make up for the lack of coverage of Vincent's other careers! there's pictures of his cartoon characters from Disney and Hanna-Barbera. there's posters for the &quot;Butterfly Ball&quot; project plus numerous print ads for products that appeared in magazines. a picture of him with Alice Cooper is also shown! the rest of this book highlights all 100 of Vincent's FEATURE films, which are anything that is shown in movie theatres. i think the book is great! seeing the pictures and movie posters are like walking through time...i wouldn't have added any negative criticism about the movies because it dampens the mood of the book, which is to be a celebration of his career in movies...but there are several harsh criticisms of his films from critics and Vincent himself, who himself was a critic: of art! the book also contains Vincent's now-legendary comments on his own profession just after wrapping up the 1987-released film &quot;The Offspring&quot;. in brief, Price announces that he's tired and bored talking about horror films. it's then explained that the film he just finished maybe caused him to be a bit testy with the reporter. Price had realized after his scenes were complete that the producers/director were filming extreme gore and slasher elements to be aired around his narrative parts and it made him furious that his name and image would be grouped with that TYPE of film once again {1984's &quot;Bloodbath at the House of Death&quot; was pretty gory and Price's appearance clashes with the sadistic storyline}. &quot;The Offspring&quot; was a Tales From the Crypt meets Twilight Zone anthology in which Price plays a town historian in rural Oldfield. a picture from that film (a shot of Price at a desk) is here. GET this book!!!istorian in rural Oldfield. a picture from that film (a shot of Price at a desk) is here. GET this book!!!	2004-03-14
US	35513484	R2KRLD6SQAKV3D	0451200780	913480842	The Great American Broadcast	Books	5	7	10	N	N	old-time radio	i was surprised that Leonard Maltin was so &quot;nice&quot; in this book. i'm used to him complaining about some obscure fact or something the typical fan wouldn't notice or care to notice. a critic's best friend is theirself. only they and they alone hold the answers as to why they like or hate something. they aren't gods...a critic shouldn't make a person like or hate something. it's just an opinion of a movie or CD, it's up to the consumer to agree or disagree with the critic. that being said, i agree with what's said in this book. for once, Leonard lets OTHER people tell the story...he doesn't appear as a &quot;critic&quot; to me in this book and that's good. the book is divided into segments like &quot;announcers&quot;; &quot;sound effects&quot;; &quot;sponsors&quot;; &quot;radio acting&quot;; etc. Maltin relies on plenty of anecdotes, which elevates this above his run of the mill &quot;critic&quot; books and by doing this it makes the book focus on it's subject matter and not the author's reputation as a tough critic.	2004-02-19
US	35513484	R6RBZZ7UKOFOB	0345339312	851884941	Guiding Light: A 50th Anniversary Celebration	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	a great look at a good show	on page 9 there is a great up close picture of Bill and Bert Bauer at a restaurant during a 1957 episode of the show. i'm glad i bought this book because it features a whole lot more different castmember pictures than, believe it or not, the 1997 60th Anniversary edition carried. No, the 1997 book is a MUST-HAVE too...it's just that this 1987 book has a more intimate feel about it than the large 1997 book, with ten added seasons. This 1987 book, strangely enough, covers ground that the 1997 book either left out because of space restraints or the author didn't feel necessary as a whole. for example, the 1987 book lists cast-members and their personal stats like birth and death and also on page 16 there's a picture of Arthur Peterson, who played &quot;Reverend Ruthledge&quot; on the radio version of the show until the mid '40s when the soap opera version took over with the Bauer clan. The 1997 lacks this kind of feature. Instead, they over-view the various families of the show in the back of the book. I think the 1987 book is a must-have because it's from a different author and a different lay-out and different emphasis...if you felt that the 1987 book was useless since the 1997 edition rolled around, you're sadly mistaken...the pictures alone are WORTH buying the 1987 &quot;50th Anniversary&quot;! My favorite characters on the show were Roger Thorpe, Alan Spaulding, Ed Bauer, Ross Marler, and Billy Lewis.	2004-02-06
US	35513484	RZOT7DNTDT2L1	0195076788	560921255	On the Air: The Encyclopedia of Old-Time Radio	Books	5	8	10	N	N	an excellant title	John Dunning's book is NOT for the casual fan or a college student who might want to know a thing or two about a legendary comedian or actor. i wouldn't want a person who really didn't like OTR to buy this book because you'll find a TON of information in here that'll blow you mind. however, for OTR fans, there is nothing that comes close to this. To the general public, OTR might be a series of letters. It means Old Time Radio, for those in the know. What i find great is the in-depth nature of the &quot;classics&quot; of OTR: Jack Benny, Fred Allen, Burns and Allen, The Great Gildersleeve, &quot;Fibber McGee and Molly&quot; with Jim and Marian Jordan, Red Skelton, Amos 'n' Andy, Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, Eddie Cantor, and several dramatic programs like &quot;Gunsmoke&quot;, &quot;Suspense&quot;, &quot;Dragnet&quot;, and &quot;The Shadow&quot;, among many many others. This book is the radio equivalent to the Alex McNeil book &quot;Total Television&quot;. Both books offer information on just about everything the mediums have to offer. Dunning also does a break down on the major news organizations and highlights many famed and not so famous news reporters. This section on the news is a sad glimpse into a by-gone era where journalism was a profession and NOT simply a means to harrass and embarrass political or entertainment figures which is so common now. the way Dunning describes it, there was a certain bit of good taste that followed the news reporters and they weren't motivated by tabloid and sleaze. MY HOW TIMES HAVE CHANGED!! Dunning also provides a wealth of information on sports broadcasters of the era, highlighted by the quips and opinions from Red Barber, a legendary sportscaster who had respected opinions of his peers and his profession. Dunning is a bit harsh on the soap opera genre, which is stereotypically synonymous with ANY mention of old-time radio. Well, i should say Dunning doesn't come across as kind and gentle on some soap operas...primarily the LONG-RUNNING soaps from Frank and Anne Hummert. To me, those are the soap operas that define the genre despite others that were on the air {such as &quot;Guiding Light&quot;, which hit in 1937 and is STILL airing some 67 years later by way of TV}. Despite Dunning's contemporary approach to the now hilariously campy Hummert soap operas, the look backs are STILL informative even behind his critques of the Hummert's writing style, a mark of professionalism. In one section, Dunning's review of why George Jessel and Milton Berle NEVER had such success on radio is accurate. Jessel's thick accent and style were suited for &quot;live&quot; programs that required little rehearsal and mostly ad-libs. Jessel is much more funny as a guest on other people's shows...Berle, of course, was a visual comedian and he too found radio as a limited format. All in all, the book is fabulous. With regards to &quot;Amos 'n' Andy&quot; and being a fan of old-time radio like i am, i find nothing wrong with this show. i've heard it countless times and i can't think of anything racial about it....UNLESS a person is hung-up on the fact that two white guys played the roles...but even then, a normal student of OTR will shrug that off as simply &quot;that's the way it was&quot; and move on. They won't crucify and protest the show, which, honestly had no intentional malice to begin with. The show was a victim of it's times in television and those same thin-skinnned pious protesters who practice reverse racism destroyed the show for the TV generation. For that, those responsible that couldn't laugh along with stereotypical humor should be ashamed. However, get this book...it'll teach everyone how to look at OTR even in these ridiculously politically-correct times.NING soaps from Frank and Anne Hummert. To me, those are the soap operas that define the genre despite others that were on the air {such as &quot;Guiding Light&quot;, which hit in 1937 and is STILL airing some 67 years later by way of TV}. Despite Dunning's contemporary approach to the now hilariously campy Hummert soap operas, the look backs are STILL informative even behind his critques of the Hummert's writing style, a mark of professionalism. In one section, Dunning's review of why George Jessel and Milton Berle NEVER had such success on radio is accurate. Jessel's thick accent and style were suited for &quot;live&quot; programs that required little rehearsal and mostly ad-libs. Jessel is much more funny as a guest on other people's shows...Berle, of course, was a visual comedian and he too found radio as a limited format. All in all, the book is fabulous. With regards to &quot;Amos 'n' Andy&quot; and being a fan of old-time radio like i am, i find nothing wrong with this show. i've heard it countless times and i can't think of anything racial about it....UNLESS a person is hung-up on the fact that two white guys played the roles...but even then, a normal student of OTR will shrug that off as simply &quot;that's the way it was&quot; and move on. They won't crucify and protest the show, which, honestly had no intentional malice to begin with. The show was a victim of it's times in television and those same thin-skinnned pious protesters who practice reverse racism destroyed the show for the TV generation. For that, those responsible that couldn't laugh along with stereotypical humor should be ashamed. However, get this book...it'll teach everyone how to look at OTR even in these ridiculously politically-correct times.	2004-01-30
US	35513484	R38ZXYCH9IHQKJ	157544111X	575333122	Guiding Light: The Complete Family Album	Books	5	31	33	N	N	The light continues to shine	I have the hardback version of this book. This magnificent book came along in 1997 when \\"Guiding Light\\" was celebrating it's then 60th Anniversary. This month marks the show's 67th Anniversary {it having began on radio in January 1937 as a 15 minute sermon from various reverends from the Little Church in Five Points}. The radio show expanded to traditional serial melodrama by 1948 with the introduction of the German immigrant Bauer clan, a family that's STILL a part of the show to this very day, plus a host of other families. The book talks in-depth about each and every storyline that had a major impact or is at least memorable to fans. Admittedly, the first generation of fans who recall when the show was on radio are either no longer with us or are in their 80s or 90s by now. And so, this book, as i see it, was also designed to highlight the radio years for the contemporary fans of today who might have started watching in the mid '80s or the early '90s and afterward.<br /><br />The show moved to TV in June 1952 (continuing on radio until 1956). By now the Bauer's were the focal point and the storylines were written to revolve around the Bauer's and the conflicts they had with each other and the community. Bert was a social climber at first but she out-grew it by the early '60s after she had a pap smear, one of the first storylines in a soap opera to deal with such topics; Bill was a womanizer and an alchoholic; Papa Frederich was the German immigrant patriarch; and as the decade grew, Bill and Bert's son Ed became a doctor and an alcoholic while brother Mike became a womanizing lawyer. The book really gets \\"juicy\\" when the '70s section rolls around.<br /><br />1971 was the debut of Michael Zazlow as Roger Thorpe, the scheming corporate ladder climber who was always being over-shadowed by his nemesis Ed Bauer. The '70s were dominated by the quadrangle of Roger Thorpe/Holly Norris/Ed Bauer/Peggy Fletcher. Storylines like that, plus the 1977 arrival of the wealthy yet sinister Alan Spaulding would prove to be even more of a success. Soon after Alan's arrival, his back-story was revealed and viewers learned that his and Elizabeth's \\"son\\", Phillip, was in reality a boy that Alan adopted and bribed a doctor to pass off as his wife's son. Why? Well, Elizabeth had a miscarriage and Alan couldn't bring himself to tell her what happened and so he paid a doctor to do some illegal activity. Then, later, it was revealed that Phillip's biological parent's just so happened to live in Springfield: Justin and Jackie Marler.<br /><br />Another very popular triangle of Alan Spaulding/Elizabeth Spaulding/Mike Bauer was underway during 1978-1979. On top of this, Alan was having an affair with Rita Bauer, the new bride of Ed...but this affair between Alan and Rita was never really dealt with until several years later when Alan and Hope were married. The dynamics, I assume, of Alan having an on-going affair with Rita, the wife of Ed Bauer, and Ed being Hope Bauer's uncle...the storyline was too irresistible to pass up. Hope is the daughter of Mike Bauer...one of Alan's enemies. The saga of Roger and Holly dominated much of the action during 1979-1980. In the early '80s a lot of long-time characters were written off. In their place came a couple of families: The Reardon's and the Lewises.<br /><br />The Reardon bunch included: Bea, Tony, Nola, and Maureen at first. Then as the '80s continued Jim Reardon returned. By the mid '80s Maureen was the matriarch figure of the Reardon family as Bea, Tony, Nola, and Jim had all been written off the show. Chelsea Reardon arrived in the mid '80s...Maureen's youngest sister. Later, Bridget Reardon came to town. She was the daughter of the obscure Reardon sibling, Sean. Bridget's brother, Matt, arrived in town shortly afterward.<br /><br />The book gets vague in the mid '80s section because i recall things that the book leaves out: like 1986's return of Alan Spaulding. The book says Alan made his return with helpfrom Baron von Halkein...which is true. But the book leaves out the back-story of Alan's missing years (1984-1986) and it never lets the reader know that Alan had been living life as 'Gregory Samuels' in San Rios after having been shot and presumed dead by the FBI, who were hot on his trail in early 1984. Alan had managed to seize control of several emerald mines and use an alias to avoid detection.<br /><br />If fans see this review they'll now know about Alan's missing years. Apart from that bit of history left out of the book, i have no complaints. The back pages of the book give histories of the families that were currently on the show: Bauer, Spaulding, Lewis, Reardon, Chamberlain, and Cooper. There are two tributes to the two most popular characters: Roger Thorpe and Reva Shane. Charita Bauer, the actress who played Bertha \\"Bert\\" Bauer from 1949-1984, is also given high praise. All of the awards from the industry to fan-voted are also shown. There's even a section where favorite couples are highlighted: Phillip and Beth; Mike and Elizabeth; Rick and Abigail; etc.<br /><br />Jerry ver Dorn gives the introduction and he holds the record for second longest running cast-member. He's played attorney Ross Marler since 1979. The record holder is Charita Bauer, of course, with 35 years as Bert, 1949-1984. The other person with the most consecutive years behind Charita's 35 and Jerry's 25, is Tina Sloan...she's played Nurse Lillian Raines since 1983, this is her 21st year on the show. This book is dated, of course. A lot has happened on the show since late 1996/early 1997.<br /><br />Seek out back issues of Soap Opera Digest for re-caps of action post 1996. This book is a must for all fans of the show both young and old.true. But the book leaves out the back-story of Alan's missing years (1984-1986) and it never lets the reader know that Alan had been living life as 'Gregory Samuels' in San Rios after having been shot and presumed dead by the FBI, who were hot on his trail in early 1984. Alan had managed to seize control of several emerald mines and use an alias to avoid detection.     If fans see this review they'll now know about Alan's missing years. Apart from that bit of history left out of the book, i have no complaints. The back pages of the book give histories of the families that were currently on the show: Bauer, Spaulding, Lewis, Reardon, Chamberlain, and Cooper. There are two tributes to the two most popular characters: Roger Thorpe and Reva Shane. Charita Bauer, the actress who played Bertha \\"Bert\\" Bauer from 1949-1984, is also given high praise. All of the awards from the industry to fan-voted are also shown. There's even a section where favorite couples are highlighted: Phillip and Beth; Mike and Elizabeth; Rick and Abigail; etc.     Jerry ver Dorn gives the introduction and he holds the record for second longest running cast-member. He's played attorney Ross Marler since 1979. The record holder is Charita Bauer, of course, with 35 years as Bert, 1949-1984. The other person with the most consecutive years behind Charita's 35 and Jerry's 25, is Tina Sloan...she's played Nurse Lillian Raines since 1983, this is her 21st year on the show. This book is dated, of course. A lot has happened on the show since late 1996/early 1997.     Seek out back issues of Soap Opera Digest for re-caps of action post 1996. This book is a must for all fans of the show both young and old.	2004-01-24
US	35513484	ROOX85DNGD1ZM	0446393215	594459685	Sunday Nights at Seven: The Jack Benny Story	Books	4	16	17	N	N	a Sunday night ritual	I think that this book was written to highlight the memoirs of Jack Benny that were discovered. Joan added her own life story growing up as a child of a celebrity and how proper she had to behave in public. It's not right for me to say that Joan doesn't have a right to judge Mary based on HER experiences with her...afterall, Joan knew both her parents better than anyone outside of George Burns (that's the truth! no joke!). Joan's commentary or anecdotes in the early chapters aren't a problem. It's the later chapters where, to me, it becomes a problem. One reviewer made mention to the fact that Joan recounts her prom and her miserable marriage. I found nothing wrong with Joan interjecting stories about her child-hood and the \\"paternal\\" side of Jack...but when she starts to talk about her personal experiences away from her father, it sticks out. The book is suppose to be about Jack Benny first and foremost and any present-day commentary should revolve around Jack, Mary, or the iconic comedian's legacy. Her opinions of Mary...like I said earlier...might be true because she knew Mary behind the scenes and we didn't. However, those opinions of Mary, whether factual or otherwise, coupled with other remarks not entirely centered on Jack Benny can be a distraction in a \\"Jack Benny book\\" and that's why i give it 4 stars.	2004-01-14
US	35513484	R3JBAWLF55I2Z9	0399116400	488083360	Jack Benny: An intimate biography	Books	5	23	24	N	N	the best biography of Jack i've seen so far...	This book, which was issued in 1976, is still a wonderful look at the beloved comedian Jack Benny who entertained generations of comedy fans from radio in the '30s to TV from the '50s through the early '70s...and he's still entertaining us by way of repeats of his TV programs or through countless cassette and CD releases of his radio programs thanks to Old-Time radio dealers. The book was written by Irving Fein, Jack's manager. The thing you'll learn is that Jack was \\"real\\".<br /><br />He went through all the things that any one of us face: anger, happiness, insecurity, longing for friendship, etc.<br /><br />After reading parts of the book, I was surprised that Jack, in real life, was prone to bouts of loneliness. He felt awful or useless if someone wasn't around him {this, according to the author, who sort of resembles Jack himself; Fein's picture is on the back flap}.<br /><br />I also learned that Jack was \\"married\\" to show business {in truth, what successful entertainer isn't?}. The book turns sad near the last chapters recalling Jack's pancreatic cancer and how everyone around him assumed Jack's stomach pains were coming from anxiety. Jack was nervous about doing \\"The Sunshine Boys\\" movie with Walter Matthau. Throughout Jack's TV career he used cue cards or in radio, simply read the script literally but this movie required he had to learn his lines.<br /><br />It wasn't until after the doctor, out of the blue, wanted to examine Jack's pancreas that his cancer was discovered! A truly sad segment of the book. The book, I think, paints a picture of a comedian who was an optimist to a fault...which means that even though the business around him had changed and the comedy became more and more anti-establishment thanks or no-thanks to the late '60s Vietnam culture revolution, he still carried on and carried himself in his later years like it was the '30s or '40s. Such optimism, I think, keeps an entertainer 'young' in the eyes of fans and peers.<br /><br />Aside from the book from 1990 that Jack's daughter wrote {\\"Sunday Nights at Seven\\" }, this is the best biography of Jack Benny I've seen so far! I also recommend fans of Jack seeking out the book Robert Taylor wrote about Fred Allen in 1989 called \\"Fred Allen: His Life and Wit\\". That book and this Jack Benny book from Irving Fein are must-have collections for any classic comedy fan.ughter wrote {\\"Sunday Nights at Seven\\" }, this is the best biography of Jack Benny I've seen so far! I also recommend fans of Jack seeking out the book Robert Taylor wrote about Fred Allen in 1989 called \\"Fred Allen: His Life and Wit\\". That book and this Jack Benny book from Irving Fein are must-have collections for any classic comedy fan.	2004-01-14
US	35513484	R2LHUQQ42HPBU9	0025354817	615364604	Memories the Autobiography of Ralph Emery	Books	4	1	4	N	N	memories are made of this and that	maybe i'm naive but i think Ralph Emery is first and foremost a broadcaster. he did interviews and played country songs for most of his radio career (dating from the mid '50s to the early '90s). His broadcasting skills border on the &quot;tough&quot; talking style of Mike Wallace. Emery clearly stated that he wanted to bring 'style' or 'respect' to the genre, commenting that in urban America country music is seen as &quot;redneck&quot; music for the un-educated. Emery's vision, from what i've read, was to showcase country singers as witty and topical/informed as the pop artists seemed to be. Emery, as he should be, prides himself on his Mike Wallace style. He talks about his short stints as gospel and rock stations before migrating to country stations. This doesn't indicate that Emery isn't a country music fan. it shows that Emery was a BROADCASTER first...one that would take the work anywhere it was available. his on-air presence obviously galvanized his listeners because he stuck with the country format throughout his career and on into television. This book is called Memories. It's an autobiography of Ralph Emery and the celebrities/artists he's been associated with. Everything in the book are 'memories' from Ralph. His child-hood upbringing and his insecurities are in the beginning chapters. His opinion of ex-wife Skeeter Davis is in no way less harsh than her opinions of him that i've heard her say on numerous occasions on the Opry. The little typ-o's from the book brought up by the other reviewer, saying Fan Fair is in July and not June or when Keith Whitley won or didn't win an award, seem petty when looking at the book's overall purpose. i will admit that Ralph can be a bit jaded, which some take as &quot;arrogant&quot;. You must understand that in Ralph's profession he has to put up with a lot of BS from his bosses, advertisers, record labels, critics, etc. A person who has to deal with that, at the same time doing a job they love to do, it tends to dampen the 'mood' a little bit. As a result, a person becomes depressed or jaded because of all the crap they have to put up with simply for an interview to get set up. In Emery's case, he hated record labels that over-hyped their artists. On his shows, a listener got to hear a country singer &quot;up close&quot; with all that industry hype stripped from them. He wouldn't allow the artist he interviewed to hold the airwaves hostage with an on-slaught of promotion of their new album or single. Instead, Ralph would promote the product periodically throughout an interview but that was it. the remainder of the interview was Ralph talking to the guest about their private life or their experiences on the road or making an album...never taking it to level 2, always keeping the flow of the conversation 'loose' where it never turned into hyping. if some find this style of &quot;no BS&quot; professionalism arrogant, well, i feel sorry for you. i give it 4 stars because the segment on the great Ray Stevens could've been longer and more in-depth because Ralph is the only one who actually knows legitimate Ray Stevens stories.the 'mood' a little bit. As a result, a person becomes depressed or jaded because of all the crap they have to put up with simply for an interview to get set up. In Emery's case, he hated record labels that over-hyped their artists. On his shows, a listener got to hear a country singer &quot;up close&quot; with all that industry hype stripped from them. He wouldn't allow the artist he interviewed to hold the airwaves hostage with an on-slaught of promotion of their new album or single. Instead, Ralph would promote the product periodically throughout an interview but that was it. the remainder of the interview was Ralph talking to the guest about their private life or their experiences on the road or making an album...never taking it to level 2, always keeping the flow of the conversation 'loose' where it never turned into hyping. if some find this style of &quot;no BS&quot; professionalism arrogant, well, i feel sorry for you. i give it 4 stars because the segment on the great Ray Stevens could've been longer and more in-depth because Ralph is the only one who actually knows legitimate Ray Stevens stories.	2004-01-14
US	35513484	R21AXCRO1CS258	0809255375	880651723	Ragged but Right: The Life and Times of George Jones	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a better biography...but still tabloid heavy	this was the second of two books about George Jones in 1984. Dolly Carlisle wrote this one. The book reads like a story with hardly any added comments and opinions. There might be a few comments here and there but nothing like Bob Allen's book! Carlisle seemed to focus on the &quot;human&quot; and emotional side of George instead of taking the easy route with one drinking and drug story right after another that seemed to grow in Allen's book. The &quot;bad days&quot; as George calls them are also in Carlisle's book...but presented less gossipy and more sensational, meaning that the stories are more believable coming from her because of her professionalism in talking about them but they still carry a tabloid feel all the same...if that makes sense! Epic and George apparently had no major problems with this book because Carlisle wrote the liner notes for George's 1984 album &quot;You've Still Got a Place in My Heart&quot;, something i don't think would've ever happened had the people been angry with her. Years later, when his own auto-biography came out, George commented that the two books that had been written on him were mostly half-truths but he DID make  quiet reference that this book was more closer to the truth than the other one.	2004-01-04
US	35513484	R21OV3K5PE7R2V	0440223733	694424007	I Lived to Tell It All	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Here it is!!	the book every George Jones fan has been waiting for finally arrived in 1996. I Lived To Tell It All was a best-seller, hitting the Top-20 and Top-10 on many book charts both local and national. The book was designed to be a classic simply because the subject matter, George, was so reluctant to talk about his life in any serious, detailed conversations probably feeling that his life story wasn't interesting. anytime the topic came up, George would characteristically brush off the topic with phrases like &quot;people don't want to hear about my life!&quot; or &quot;i don't want to bore the fans with my life-story&quot;. All his fans had were piles of negative news articles and rumors from other books and articles, nothing legitimate until this book! MCA also released a major hit album of the same name in 1996 to help promote awareness of the book. The CD was a #26 smash. In reality, the book helped promote the CD...but that's another story. This book was technically &quot;written&quot; by Tom Carter based and built on stories and opinions from George himself. A lot of people were interviewed for material and true stories about George. These book &quot;sessions&quot; as i call them came along in 1995 amidst George's reunion tour with Tammy. A lot of George's opinions on country music post 1990 is dealt with in the later chapters since each chapter deals with George's career chronologically: The beginnings are in the early chapters, the middle years are in the middle chapters, and the recent goings on are in the last chapters. His complaint is that country radio, in the wake of Garth Brooks having huge success on the Pop Album chart, decided that anyone who couldn't put up huge numbers weren't going to get airplay. George cites that country radio's lack of airplay of his singles prevents the mass audience of hearing him and as a result they won't go out and buy his albums as much as they would someone with radio support. It's a valid argument because if the public at large remains unaware that an artist has a new CD out, chances are they won't be out looking for it and potentially buy it...and without those SALES coming in, country radio won't play that artist...see how everything goes hand-in-hand? you can't have one without the other. The Porter Waggoner story is hilarious as are the escapades with Buck Owens and how George reacted to being in the &quot;opening act&quot; category. Another favorite story involves Johnny PayCheck and a certain trip on a tour bus where PayCheck and George get into an argument. PayCheck yells that he's gonna whip George's you know what! George agrees to step outside the bus at the next stop and they'd fight it out...PayCheck leaps out of the bus getting ready to duke it out with George...who instructs the bus driver to take off...leaving PayCheck stranded in the middle of nowhere! Later, they went back for him, thanks to George being talked into it! I howled with laughter at that story! other stories like that are in this book, all did in a style that suggests that George isn't proud of his actions in the past but since he can't change it he oughta at least laugh about it since that's about all that anyone in his situation could possibly do. In another controversial section, George admits that he still drinks a beer or two...but nothing &quot;hard&quot; like Vodka or Whiskey. Alcoholism is a disease, first and foremost. Like any curable disease, it's bound to relapse over a period of time. His 1999 SUV accident was a result of that relapse. This book, however, was written in 1996 at a time when MANY honestly felt that George had nothing MAJOR to live through and as a result his 'story' was near complete...nobody saw that 1999 accident coming!! This review is based on the original hard-cover edition.arge remains unaware that an artist has a new CD out, chances are they won't be out looking for it and potentially buy it...and without those SALES coming in, country radio won't play that artist...see how everything goes hand-in-hand? you can't have one without the other. The Porter Waggoner story is hilarious as are the escapades with Buck Owens and how George reacted to being in the &quot;opening act&quot; category. Another favorite story involves Johnny PayCheck and a certain trip on a tour bus where PayCheck and George get into an argument. PayCheck yells that he's gonna whip George's you know what! George agrees to step outside the bus at the next stop and they'd fight it out...PayCheck leaps out of the bus getting ready to duke it out with George...who instructs the bus driver to take off...leaving PayCheck stranded in the middle of nowhere! Later, they went back for him, thanks to George being talked into it! I howled with laughter at that story! other stories like that are in this book, all did in a style that suggests that George isn't proud of his actions in the past but since he can't change it he oughta at least laugh about it since that's about all that anyone in his situation could possibly do. In another controversial section, George admits that he still drinks a beer or two...but nothing &quot;hard&quot; like Vodka or Whiskey. Alcoholism is a disease, first and foremost. Like any curable disease, it's bound to relapse over a period of time. His 1999 SUV accident was a result of that relapse. This book, however, was written in 1996 at a time when MANY honestly felt that George had nothing MAJOR to live through and as a result his 'story' was near complete...nobody saw that 1999 accident coming!! This review is based on the original hard-cover edition.	2004-01-04
US	35513484	R1MX4T9Y7OCQFM	0312956983	751146308	George Jones: The Life and Times of a Honky Tonk Legend	Books	3	6	7	N	N	can you spell &quot;tabloid-driven&quot; ?	Bob Allen, the author of this book, was a major player in the cult magazine 'Country Music' that was in publication from 1972-2002, i believe. Allen was one of the more harsh music critics and writers for that magazine, a writer who i felt was rooted in a style that praised rowdy, southern-rock inflected country music but denounced mainstream country music no matter who was doing the singing. More than anyother writer for that magazine, Bob Allen indirectly led a wave of country listeners into protesting the George Jones songs of the Epic era, which represented 85% of the Possum's biggest hits both in sales and chart domination. Disgusted with commercial songs or songs with a good sound, Allen seemed to get satisfaction in hearing material that wasn't well-crafted or songs that seemed to flow straight from the back-room of a bar somewhere. i love traditional country music as much as Bob but i draw the line when it comes to George Jones. i'll NEVER bad-mouth George no matter what he records. This brings us to this 1984 book, one of two that surfaced during that magical year in George's career (1983-1984). a year that saw him really try and beat his drug and drinking addictions with the help of girlfriend turned wife, Nancy. a re-location to Texas and the opening of the outdoor music park, Jones Country, also kept him from the clutches of the drug-infested hangers-on in Nashville. The book is amazing in it's scope of information and coverage...i'll give Bob Allen that much because in some chapters in the book Allen rattles off huge sets of figures that George is in debt for. the tabloid-driven chapters are no doubt the most popular or the most infamous depending on a reader's view of George. but it's those very same chapters that down the book from a 5-star to a 3-star in my opinion. we don't need to read gossip and half-truths passed off as gospel from the pen of Bob Allen. In no way does Bob claim that the book is HIS version of George's career and so he's open for such criticism from people like me who were expecting a good look at George's life and times by way of facts and not by way of the author's take on situations. This book is presented like a tabloid meets a soap opera about half-way through. Calling Ralph Emery an elitist and reducing his wonderful career as nothing but &quot;dead air&quot; {in Bob's own words} is another example of the author's shameless and childishly annoying name-calling whenever he tries to make a point about something. In one passage, Allen says something like: &quot;by 1980, Tammy's record sales had started to sag about as bad as her mid-section. It was obvious that it was SHE who was riding George's coat-tails&quot;. Now, what an awful thing to say about a woman, especially a legend like that. we all now know that Bob proved my theory that the success for a good majority of female singers is all in the body or else he wouldn't have made such a comparison. He blasts Billy Sherrill {which isn't anything knew for critics of his ilk} and paints him as a money-hungry producer instead of being a clever producer who took advantage of the public's fascination of George and Tammy's private life. What normal producer is going to pass up a goldmine approach of selling singles and albums? Can you blame him? The demand was there and Sherrill filled the demand with a streak of &quot;biographical&quot; songs written especially for George and Tammy to record separately or as a duet to mirror their private life...or at least what the public FELT was glimpses into their private life. we were like vinyl voyeurs, if you will, hanging onto every word either artist sung hoping to catch a peek at their private life through song and i'm not ashamed of it because our intentions were based on loyalty and respect...not intrusion, which many fans of pop/rock acts go over-board with. Example: a real country audience would NEVER rip and tear apart a performer's clothes or even try to...but a rock/pop audience would do such silly things to a performer. In 1994 this book was re-released with several more out-spoken opinions and speculations on George's life post-1984. He does make a valid argument that the drinking and cheating songs that George did after he met Nancy weren't as believable in the ears of some listeners because he doesn't live the way he once did. But that's not to say his songs were no good...which Allen i think is really saying given his hatred for the Epic material. The bottom line is: Bob Allen obviously doesn't know how egotistical HIS whole &quot;version&quot; of George's life sounds or else he would've did a massive editing job before the book hit the shelves the first time around!! it's 3-star material for people who love George Jones. however, it's a 5-star book if you're the sick type who love celebrity bashing and gossip over facts.h silly things to a performer. In 1994 this book was re-released with several more out-spoken opinions and speculations on George's life post-1984. He does make a valid argument that the drinking and cheating songs that George did after he met Nancy weren't as believable in the ears of some listeners because he doesn't live the way he once did. But that's not to say his songs were no good...which Allen i think is really saying given his hatred for the Epic material. The bottom line is: Bob Allen obviously doesn't know how egotistical HIS whole &quot;version&quot; of George's life sounds or else he would've did a massive editing job before the book hit the shelves the first time around!! it's 3-star material for people who love George Jones. however, it's a 5-star book if you're the sick type who love celebrity bashing and gossip over facts.	2004-01-04
US	35513484	R1OHIDAW15I7LS	1572970286	245284031	Life in the Kornfield: My 25 Years at Hee Haw	Books	5	10	11	N	N	"Sa-Loot!"	i grew up watching Hee-Haw. i never saw anything wrong with it then and i don't see anything wrong with it now. i love this book that the producer wrote. there are but a few errors, no doubt you already read about them in the other reviews here. what this book is all about is the celebration of the show itself, simply put. it's not a celebration of any individual cast-members as some would have liked to have seen from the reviews i've read here. \\"Hee-Haw\\", as a show, is what's being touted in the book. i love the detailed information about each program and what guest was on each show, all 585 episodes from 1969-1992. i also love the story about Archie Campbell and the creation of \\"Pffft You was Gone\\". Lovullo rightfully devotes more ink to the signature cast members of the show that were on it for nearly the entire run: Gordie Tapp, Grandpa Jones, George Lindsay, Lulu Roman, and the hosts Roy Clark and Buck Owens {Buck left the show in 1986 but it continued with Roy until 1992}. you'll read about the two \\"cast shake-ups\\" as Lovullo calls them in 1986 and 1991 when advertisers demanded changes to attract a young audience. The 1986 shake-up resulted in the loss of Don Harron, the Hager Twins, Lisa Todd, and host Buck Owens {although Buck's departure was voluntary}. the deaths of long-time cast members like Jackie Phelps as well as Kenny Price and Archie Campbell in 1987 caused further turmoil as the show became a little bit more 'classy' with a jazzy-looking gazebo as an added set for artists to sing in front of. before this, artists performed in an intimate \\"bar/honky-tonk\\" type setting in front of a crowd of lucky people. The 1991 shake-up was more devastating because it caused the loss of every cast-member except a chosen few: Roy Clark remained as host of course and Grandpa Jones, George Lindsay, Lulu Roman, Gailord Sartain, Gordie Tapp, Linda Thompson, Irlene Mandrell, and Phil Campbell were the only returning cast-members as the 1991-1992 season began. long-time favorites like Gunilla Hutton, Misty Rowe, Mike Snider, Roni Stoneman, among others were all gone. speaking of Gunilla Hutton, she and several other \\"honeys\\" are talked about under one heading: \\"Hee-Haw Honeys\\" naturally. on page 78 it makes reference to Hutton's former job on \\"Petticoat Junction\\", where she was 'discovered' by the Hee-Haw people. on page 83, there's an error that says \\"Green Acres\\" but only a nit-picker would bring up such a mistake knowing full well that Lovullo meant to say \\"Petticoat Junction\\". yes, the book needed some pre-viewing before going to the final presses but without human error, where's the reality? the casual mistakes or errors make the book even more endearing to me because it actually SOUNDS like Lovullo, who usually confused similar people with one another. read his gaffe about momentarily thinking Jimmy Carter was \\"Billy\\", which is the name of Jimmy's brother who had recently appeared on the show as a guest. The story went that Jimmy met Lovullo at some function. Jimmy said how much a fan of the show he was. Lovullo said: \\"yeah, we just had Jimmy on the show the other day!\\". Lovullo says that all Jimmy did was smiled and said: \\"no, that was Billy...I'M Jimmmy!\\". so, slipping of the tongue was common for Lovullo and i'm glad the book retained some of that. starting on page 3 and running to page 56, Lovullo explains in depth the story of Hee-Haw and how in TV the producer gets more credit than a director or the actual creator of a show...so Lovullo talks about the creators of the show that rarely got much press coverage: John Aylesworth and Frank Peppiatt. after the show's life is recalled, the \\"cast\\" section begins with a look at every cast-member that graced the Kornfield. Don Harron, who on the show played the hilarious newscaster \\"Charlie Farqueson\\" for KORN-TV, is recalled as a legend in Canada. After the castmember section comes the guest star section with small or large comments from Lovullo on all the guests both from country music and Hollywood. after that comes more technical behind-the-scenes credits only real fans of the show will find interesting like who the writers were, the directors, the lighting directors, set designers, etc. after that section comes the 585 episode break-down. The first episode aired on June 15, 1969 and the last episode aired on May 30, 1992 without ever missing an air-date in that 23 year run. as far as longevity, Hee-Haw is the longest-running syndicated country music program at 21 years (it's first two years, 1969-1971, were on CBS). it beats Lawrence Welk in the syndicated battle, too: Welk was on the network from 1955-1971, 16 years and in syndication from 1971-1982, 11 years. In total longevity, Welk's 27 beats the 23 of \\"Hee-Haw\\"...but more importantly, Hee-Haw ended production in 1992, and those last episodes in 1991-1992 included contemporary acts as guests in addition to legends allowing the show to have an impact on a contemporary music audience at the time. Hee-Haw had always scheduled a wide variety of music guests from country music with various sounds {bluegrass, novelty, country-pop, etc.} to try and appeal to everyone's musical taste. On the other side of the equation, Welk's last programs looked like they were from the '50s which did please his audience but not the public-at-large who wanted contemporary pop/rock acts on the show. enough rambling, \\"Life in the Kornfield\\" is a must-have for EVERY real fan of the show.try music and Hollywood. after that comes more technical behind-the-scenes credits only real fans of the show will find interesting like who the writers were, the directors, the lighting directors, set designers, etc. after that section comes the 585 episode break-down. The first episode aired on June 15, 1969 and the last episode aired on May 30, 1992 without ever missing an air-date in that 23 year run. as far as longevity, Hee-Haw is the longest-running syndicated country music program at 21 years (it's first two years, 1969-1971, were on CBS). it beats Lawrence Welk in the syndicated battle, too: Welk was on the network from 1955-1971, 16 years and in syndication from 1971-1982, 11 years. In total longevity, Welk's 27 beats the 23 of \\"Hee-Haw\\"...but more importantly, Hee-Haw ended production in 1992, and those last episodes in 1991-1992 included contemporary acts as guests in addition to legends allowing the show to have an impact on a contemporary music audience at the time. Hee-Haw had always scheduled a wide variety of music guests from country music with various sounds {bluegrass, novelty, country-pop, etc.} to try and appeal to everyone's musical taste. On the other side of the equation, Welk's last programs looked like they were from the '50s which did please his audience but not the public-at-large who wanted contemporary pop/rock acts on the show. enough rambling, \\"Life in the Kornfield\\" is a must-have for EVERY real fan of the show.	2004-01-04
US	35513484	R25ZXIV6K1R703	0316833886	645655044	Fred Allen: His Life and Wit	Books	5	12	12	N	N	a wonderful book	Fred Allen, who lived from 1894-1956, is best remembered for his feud with Jack Benny and a skit on his own radio program in the later years, &#34;Allen's Alley&#34;, which featured four dwellers of various ethnic backgrounds responding to Allen's news of the day question. This book by Robert Taylor came along in 1989, 40 years after Fred's radio show ended. The book examines Fred's life from childhood on through vaudeville and radio...it also examines why Fred was a 'radio' comedian and not a TV comedian. His relationship with corporate america was strained to put it mildly. his ad-libs about network vice-presidents and censorship had him in constant trouble with network executives.<br /><br />His bitter relationship with NBC's censor is recounted: several of his shows would abruptly end in mid-sentence because the censor found something offensive. at times his satire was so biting that NBC would often demand re-writes. He wrote his own programs with a little help from other writers. His entire radio era, 1932-1949, is examined and each program is given some attention in this book.<br /><br />&#34;Town Hall Tonight&#34; was his major program from 1934-1939 on NBC and on CBS it was &#34;Texaco Star Theatre&#34; from 1940-1944. Hypertension forced him off the air in 1944-1945.<br /><br />One of the enduring sketches from Allen's radio program happened to be &#34;Allen's Alley&#34;, which eventually featured announcer Kenny Delmar as 'Senator Claghorne'; In it's earlier versions the Alley featured characters named Socrates Mulligan, Senator Bloat, Falstaff Openshaw, and Mrs. Nussbaum. Later versions contained the other classic dweller's of Parker Fennelly as 'Titus Moody'; Minerva Pious as 'Mrs. Nussbaum'; and Peter Donald as 'Ajax Cassidy'. Alan Reed would often re-appear as Falstaff Openshaw, the 4th door in the Alley, whenever Peter Donald was unavailable.<br /><br />Taylor also talks about why Fred's radio show ended in 1949. Much is made of Fred's hatred for TV but ironically from 1954-1956 Fred was a regular panelist on &#34;What's My Line?&#34;. Fred's life with Portland Hoffa, his wife, is recounted from the day they met until that fateful day in 1956 when the police found Fred's body along the streets of New York.<br /><br />He had a heart attack while strolling through a street near Carnegie Hall.<br /><br />This book gives you the complete picture of Fred Allen, one of the most brilliant ad-libbers of his era and he in many ways was the David Letterman of the '30s and '40s with sarcastic, dry wit about the establishment. Letterman's frequent jokes about his own network (CBS) is a direct result of Fred Allen doing the same thing on NBC radio.s a regular panelist on &#34;What's My Line?&#34;. Fred's life with Portland Hoffa, his wife, is recounted from the day they met until that fateful day in 1956 when the police found Fred's body along the streets of New York.   He had a heart attack while strolling through a street near Carnegie Hall.  This book gives you the complete picture of Fred Allen, one of the most brilliant ad-libbers of his era and he in many ways was the David Letterman of the '30s and '40s with sarcastic, dry wit about the establishment. Letterman's frequent jokes about his own network (CBS) is a direct result of Fred Allen doing the same thing on NBC radio.	2003-12-31
US	35513484	RASWFKLSQVN5F	0060965460	794633799	Jack Benny: The Radio and Television Work	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Jell-O again...this is Jack Benny talking...	this book is sensational. it's very informative and detailed, which is what i like to find in celebrity-driven books. to be fair, i haven't read Irving Fein, Milt Josephsberg, or Mary Livingstone's books about Jack so i won't say this is better than those two. i've got the book that Joan Benny issued in 1990, with 85% of it written by Jack himself, and that's very revealing. this book, \\"The Radio and Television Work\\", spotlights all the facets of Jack's career. From vaudeville, to early talking films, to radio, and into TV. Jack's hilarious feud with my other favorite, Fred Allen, is recounted here as is a script from a TV show of Jack's where Fred is the guest star. the action takes place at Jack's sponsor's office. The book also talks about the various long-running gags as well as Jack's false persona he fooled an entire generation with {the bad violin playing; the cheapskate; the braggart; the vault in his basement; always drove a jalopy; kept a pay phone in his house for guests; and why Jack was 39 until the day he died; etc.} as the book departs from the TV series segment, it focuses on his highly-rated TV specials. from the first \\"Jack Benny Hour\\" special in the late '50s through \\"Jack Benny's Second Farewell Special\\" in the early '70s, everything is captured on paper. Jack's guest appearances on numerous TV shows are also highlighted. the character of \\"Rochester\\" is chronicled from his original 1939 stereotypical black servant role on through the humanizing of the character in the mid '40s as an \\"equal\\" to Jack and everyone else on the show, despite the obvious fact that he continued to be Jack's butler. This book will also examine Jack's use of pauses and silences. For those who aren't familiar with Jack Benny, he wasn't a joke telling comedian. He was a reactionist to his co-stars hi-jinks plus he made himself the butt of the jokes. The only time Jack would get excited or wordy is when being taunted by Fred Allen or when jumping all over announcer Don Wilson for his weight, which was a long-running gag. this book is written for everybody. long time fans like myself {i'm 26 but i've known of Jack and the gang since the mid '80s, thanks to the repeats of his TV show on PBS} will find this book inseparable and addictive! newcomers who've only heard the name Jack Benny by way of Jay Leno or Kesley Grammer will learn just about everything they always wanted to know after reading the book. long-time fans will know why i titled this review the way i did!n for his weight, which was a long-running gag. this book is written for everybody. long time fans like myself {i'm 26 but i've known of Jack and the gang since the mid '80s, thanks to the repeats of his TV show on PBS} will find this book inseparable and addictive! newcomers who've only heard the name Jack Benny by way of Jay Leno or Kesley Grammer will learn just about everything they always wanted to know after reading the book. long-time fans will know why i titled this review the way i did!	2003-08-22
US	35513484	R1DI1U6F9ICPC8	0770106382	234314512	The Conway Twitty Story: An Authorized Biography	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Goodbye Darlin'...	Throughout Conway's country career, he purposely avoided the media for fear of over-exposing himself. the media, on the other hand, took this shunning as an insult and even though it was a friendly two-way street between Conway and the press, there was a distance between the two.For starters, the media (tabloids mostly) loves to dig up dirt and gossip on artists that appear \\"all-American\\" or \\"flawless\\". Conway (whose real name was Harold Jenkins) handled his career like an actor you might say. \\"Conway\\" was an image to Harold and whenever you heard him in an interview he'd always talk about \\"Conway Twitty\\" as if it were a product and not a real person and that's how, he'd say, he was able to endure all those years and have 55 #1 hits.I loved the book. I loved that it didn't dwell on his controversies with certain adult-oriented songs that at the time were called \\"porn-country\\" by many critics and DJs in the '70s. They are tame by today's standards (speaking of \\"You've Never Been This Far Before\\", a 3 week #1; \\"Linda on My Mind\\"; \\"I'd Love to Lay You Down\\"; \\"I've Already Loved You In My Mind\\"; and a few others.) If you're someone who discovered Conway Twitty and you want to know about him, this book is essential. The book arrived in 1986 and so there's a ton more hits and history after 1985 that isn't included but don't let that discourage you from buying it. The book ends during the time period of the summer of '85 when \\"Don't Call Him a Cowboy\\" had became his 50th #1 hit. For a career as media-shy as Conway's i didn't expect a full-blown soul bearing confessional or anything like that and so i wasn't disappointed at the positive feel of the story. The book DOES go in detail a bit too much when the authors write about the CMA and the late '70s when MCA forced Owen Bradley out in favor of a New York or L.A. hot shot. Conway even gives substantial quotes and stories of some of his hits sprinkled throughout the book. There is a few errors in the book during the story portion (the last pages are filled with a singles discography and chart peaks!). the only time the book gets negative or really serious is when his children are quoted as saying their likes and dis-likes over having a famous father. i loved Conway's music and i loved how he ran his career...he gave us everything he had in song...he didn't have to be on millions of magazine covers or on talk-shows every other month to please his fans...rtion (the last pages are filled with a singles discography and chart peaks!). the only time the book gets negative or really serious is when his children are quoted as saying their likes and dis-likes over having a famous father. i loved Conway's music and i loved how he ran his career...he gave us everything he had in song...he didn't have to be on millions of magazine covers or on talk-shows every other month to please his fans...	2003-06-11
US	35513484	R3IQK6QUFLUAVF	0446390895	939306597	That's Not All Folks!	Books	5	28	30	N	N	radio, cartoons, television...	The one thing that has always amazed me about voice actors is how easy they make what they do look. i've been a fan of Mel's forever. the first time i saw him was on a rerun of \\"The Jack Benny Program\\" playing Jack's violin instructor, Professor LeBlanc. i then learned that he was the voice of Warner Brothers cartoons.<br /><br />I HAD to see it for myself (i didn't believe my uncle's claims) and so one day i caught a Joan Lunden show on Lifetime called \\"Mother's Day\\" and out walked Mel in a Bugs Bunny shirt...and he was doing Bugs, Daffy, Foghorn, Porky, Tweety, Sylvester...and i was knocked backwards!<br /><br />From that point forward i started to become a fan of voice actors, primarily the ones that didn't use their natural voice too much, such as Mel, Daws Butler, Don Messick, Paul Winchell, June Foray, Paul Frees, Bill Scott, Stan Freberg, etc.)...but i don't mind the ones who use their own voices, most of the time, because they're so distinct (John Stephenson, Casey Kasem, Gary Owens, Lorenzo Music, etc.)<br /><br />With this book, \\"That's NOT All Folks!\\", we read the Mel Blanc story from his birth to 1988 (he passed away in 1989). we're informed of how he was raised in a melting pot and he started to mimic different dialects. he indirectly states that he's not a dialectition (one who specializes in dialects) because most of his dialects have his natural voice sprinkled through them...and so you might call his dialects \\"Americanized dialects\\".<br /><br />another chapter worth discussing is his in depth story involving his near-fatal car wreck in 1961. all the events that took place after impact have been recounted to him by doctors, friends, and family because Mel was in a coma for nearly a year and that's how this information was gathered! he spends some time talking about his dislikes and the book also sheds some light on some behind-the-scenes gossip and it explains why Mel's name got to be listed under \\"voice characterizations by\\" on the opening credits of many Warner Brothers theatrical shorts when his frequent co-stars (most notably Arthur Q. Bryan, Stan Freberg, and June Foray) names were not.<br /><br />Mel also tells the crisis that erupted after the death of Arthur Q. Bryan and how nobody wanted to voice Elmer Fudd and so Mel and Hal Smith took turns. there's also some trivia thrown in: did you know that Mel was the original voice for Woody Woodpecker in six cartoons and that the Walter Lantz studio continued to use Mel's woodpecker laugh long after Grace Stafford took over the role? so, if you ever see any Woody Woodpecker cartoons up through the early '80s and you hear that laugh, no matter who the credits say is talking Woody, it's Mel's laugh every time.<br /><br />Mel devotes a chapter to his long-running role as Jack Benny's comedic stooge from 1939-1965 and he also talks about his years spent on other radio shows: \\"The Judy Canova Show\\"; \\"Burns and Allen\\"; \\"Point Sublime\\"; as Goo-Goo the duck on \\"The Joe Penner Show\\"; on up to his own short-lived radio show entitled \\"The Mel Blanc Fix-It Shop\\". Mel gives reasons as to why he thinks his radio show was short-lived.<br /><br />In later chapters he talks about his days with Hanna-Barbera after Warner Brothers shut down their animation department in the mid '60s. Mel recalls one time he had a nasty encounter with the likes of Gale Gordon...i won't say what the tiff was over, you'll have to buy the book. Noel Blanc, Mel's only child, has learned the voices of his father's many characters and for a time it was thought that Noel would follow in Mel's footsteps but Noel instead became a behind-the-scenes figure on various projects and often represents his father in various classic cartoon panels or documentaries focusing on classic Warner Brothers cartoons.<br /><br />And so, the ending of the book is about what Mel had hoped the future would bring. the book came out in 1988...and this edition is the original version. there's no \\"hidden\\" chapter or any referenceto Mel's death...since it hadn't happened.<br /><br />From that aspect, the book is eerie and sad because even at age 80 Mel was so full of life... the book is opened up by Rich Little of all people, praising Mel's vocal talents.aspect, the book is eerie and sad because even at age 80 Mel was so full of life... the book is opened up by Rich Little of all people, praising Mel's vocal talents.	2003-02-06
US	35513484	R3HHBOKSKCM8E1	0816038325	449048018	The Encyclopedia of Animated Cartoons	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	animation heaven	this book lives up to it's title. it doesn't discriminate between new cartoons and the good ones from the past. it's very detailed (some words are missing in two or three show synopsis reports, the writer was probably reading in his mind what he was wanting to write and he got ahead of himself and left out a word or two he thought he wrote...it happens to me all the time). well, this book tells brief histories of cartoons and the voices behind them. it's a nice companion book to The Encyclopedia of Game Shows. it was published in 1999 and so at the time &quot;The Bugs Bunny and Tweety Show&quot; was still on the air but that program was pulled off ABC in 2000 because they said that 60% of the parents today feel that children don't need cartoons in their lives. NBC had already yanked animated shows off the air and ABC soon followed by pulling off nearly all of it's animated line-up. currently, Saturday mornings have very few &quot;real&quot; cartoons, it's now nothing but claymation, Japanese stuff, or shows aimed at very little children. i can remember being 10 or 11 (1986 and 1987) and STILL getting up early on Saturday mornings to watch &quot;Popeye&quot;, &quot;Wacky Races&quot;, &quot;Scooby-Doo&quot;, &quot;Bugs Bunny&quot;, &quot;Clue Club&quot;, &quot;Jabber Jaw&quot;, &quot;Super-Friends&quot;, and the list goes on. even when i was 16 i watched USA Network's &quot;Cartoon Express&quot; until they started replacing the good cartoons with the newer stuff. i was raised on cartoons made in the 1930's through the 1980's but being 9 and 10 years old in the mid '80s i never knew about such things as an old cartoon and new one. to me &quot;Yogi Bear&quot; and &quot;Bugs Bunny&quot; were as contemporary as the &quot;Smurfs&quot; and &quot;He-Man&quot;. i still watch the classic Warner Brothers cartoons late at night on weekends on Cartoon Network. i also love the classic Hanna-Barbera cartoons and the ones they did in the 1980s (revivals of their older shows with children casts, &quot;Flintstone Kids&quot;, &quot;A Pup Named Scooby-Doo&quot;, plus &quot;Tom and Jerry Kids&quot;, in the early '90s). this book is a must for animation fans; artists; fans of Daws Butler, Don Messick, and Mel Blanc like i am; plus it's broken down into different themes such as theatrical feature length cartoons, made for TV cartoons, award winning cartoons, etc. it's a great book.ldren casts, &quot;Flintstone Kids&quot;, &quot;A Pup Named Scooby-Doo&quot;, plus &quot;Tom and Jerry Kids&quot;, in the early '90s). this book is a must for animation fans; artists; fans of Daws Butler, Don Messick, and Mel Blanc like i am; plus it's broken down into different themes such as theatrical feature length cartoons, made for TV cartoons, award winning cartoons, etc. it's a great book.	2003-02-01
