US	35524743	R1C2I96ZEXALJ4	0393308278	573188488	The Wars of Watergate: The Last Crisis of Richard Nixon	Books	4	21	23	N	N	The most comprehensive Watergate compilation	The Watergate break-in and coverup scandal that toppled the presidential administration of Richard Nixon is, maybe arguably, one of American history's watershed events. Why is clearly explained by Richard Kutler in his historically rich book that is very probably the most comprehensive and easily understood publication on the subject. Kutler begins with the approval by the president's men of the break-in at the headquarters in the Watergate complex of the National Democratic Committee and, after the plot's five burglars are nabbed, the conspiracy to cover up the involvement of the White House in the break-in. Kutler is rightly clear in pressing the point that there has never been any evidence that Nixon himself approved the break-in (that was OKed by the president's operatives). But, just six days after the June 17, 1972, break-in, Nixon ordered the coverup in the now infamous smoking gun taped conversation with chief of staff H.R. Haldeman. From the apprehension of the break-in's participants, Kutler takes us to the Senate investigative committee that gradually chipped away to lead to the articles of impeachment that were being advanced but not forwarded to the House because of Nixon's resignation. The number of participants in the Watergate affair is sheer numbing, but Kutler does a tremendous job in not getting his reader too bogged down in trying to keep the cast straight. In the end, though, the historical value of Kutler's contribution is why Watergate essentially redefined the presidency, how it altered the American public's perception of the nation's highest office and why and how the built-in safeguards against a tyrannical presidency worked. As for Nixon, it goes without saying he was a truly tragic figures whose pettiness sabotaged what could likely have been one of the most effective presidential administrations in history. Kutler concludes with a tantalizing question: assuming that Nixon did, to some extent, rehabilitate his public image in the years before his death, was that rehabilitation due to the fallen president's changing his character's fatal flaws, or was it because he simply out-lived most of what he called his \\"enemies?\\" All this and more in one of the most compelling documents in the Watergate fiasco.	2003-05-08
US	35524743	R1Q0NSDQNLQAMH	0671707418	954430457	RN: The Memoirs of Richard Nixon	Books	4	23	23	N	N	In his own words	For anyone fascinated by the only president in history to resign from office, Richard Nixon in his own words provides the first-hand account of the reasons for the events that triggered a national civil and presidential history crisis. &quot;I saw Watergate as politics pure and simple,&quot; Nixon writes, adding he'd &quot;play it tough&quot; because his &quot;enemies&quot; would. But Nixon's downfall is put a part of this extensively written memoir, focusing also on the ex-president's incredible achievements as a peacemaker and his rise to national recognition as a fervent anti-Communist and his about-face in reaching out to the world's two most powerful communist countries (China and the former Soviet Union) once in office. Much of Nixon's own memories have been written in other publications, but this one adds (to a very limited degree) some reasons for the abstracts that were Richard Nixon. He tells us the night of his first presidential race loss to John F. Kennedy was the longest of his life, hinting that the election embittered him the rest of his public life. Yet, 12 years later, in 1972, when he was overwhelmingly endorsed by the American public in one of history's most lopsided presidential races, Nixon admittedly was unable to savor the mandate of the nation's choice, instead caught in some inexplicable dark mood caused by, Nixon profers, the looming storm of Watergate, his party's failure to wrest the House and Senate from the Democrats, or whatever else was at the core of the very man himself. Nixon, in his own words, is a mandatory addition to any Nixon library, and its historical value is apparent even if the reader disagrees with the man's explanation for some of the petty characteristics that brought down what may well have been one of the most productive presidential administrations in history.	2003-05-07
US	35524743	R3T9ON5TM943QO	1569244863	526297666	Going the Other Way: Lessons from a Life in and out of Major-League Baseball	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Courageous, the stuff of role models	At its inception, \\"Going the Other Way ...\\" could easily have been little more than a professional athlete's bio of protecting his homosexuality in what remains one of the sexuality's near-hallowed taboo, and even going that far would be courageous. But ex-baseball player Billy Bean takes his private story further by not only coming out publicly but by submitting the subtle question if sexual orientation really has anything to do with a person's worth as a family member, friend and working in whatever profession. In doing so, Bean's story is a lesson not only in coming to terms privately but also in being accepted by rendering impotent the social tendency to over-use labels like straight, gay and bi. Until Bean made good his dream to play major league baseball, his story was essentially non-descript: a loving family supporting his athletic ambition, a straight A student, girlfriends, marriage to a breathtakingly beautiful woman. Bean's \\"wholesome\\" story becomes unique only when he actually makes the big leagues but has to stay in his closet to avoid the potential multi-dimensional issues associated with coming out. Remarkably, Bean's is both a baseball and coming-to-terms book, and he manages further to posit the thought that sexual orientation may actually have little to nothing to do with any person's total worth. Bean also goes into some detail about his gay sexual experiences and concludes he was bassically \\"lucky\\" to have dodged the fatal bullet of AIDS. Still, that portion of his narrative poses the thought that public discussion about homosexuality and AIDS, even by the anti-gay faction, may actually be productive in blunting activity that risks the disease. In the end, though, Bean's story is an important contribution in learning to accept oneself and by doing it in such a way to be accepted in general with little to no qualification of sexual orientation being a factor. Beyond that, Bean's story is a one of courage and unshakeable faith in his own worth asa human being, and it and he are the stuff role models are made of.	2003-04-08
US	35524743	RSFTP21IKN168	0451628810	78796814	The Federalist Papers	Books	4	2	5	N	N	The groundwork for a constitutional government	The founding of America wasn't quite as easy as the original colonists banding together to revolt against the mother country and, once done, putting a new country on the map. Long before the Revolutionary War, the men who would be forever identified as the country's founding fathers, had to have colonists' support by convincing them that the new nation they envisioned promised a better life. In doing that, the eventual founders published their ideas and ideals in a collection called &quot;The Federalist Papers,&quot; so titled to identify the proposed new government as a federalist one that established a federal government of three branches (the executive, judiciary and legislative) with checks and balances, and independent of what would be territorial states. Here, in essay form, the towering historic words of such founders as George Washington, Thomas Paine, Alexander Hamilton, James Madison and John Jay lay out their vision of a new country not under the stifling governance of the mother country. The ideas of the founding fathers, in their time, were widely feared, criticized, debated and disputed. But the idealism of a new country won enough support that colonists revolted against the mother country. Far from the revered ideologies that laid the groundwork for America's constitutional form of government, &quot;The Federalist Papers&quot; are a must-read for anyone seriously interested in how we as an American people began and why we're where we are now.	2003-04-01
US	35524743	R2JLUMIHDN89J1	1900850494	18014019	The Queen is Dead : A Story of Jarheads, Eggheads, Serial Killers and Bad Sex	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Undeniably original, but not encouraging	Zeeland and Simpson don't deny they blanketed this collaboration with dark humor, and the title is pretty indicative of what's inside. And the book cover ain't too bad! But the book, certainly original and not a gay manuscript that can be pigeon-holed into any single category like how to find the love of your life or how to put the fireworks back into sex with the same guy, its apparent purpose is to throw caution to the wind about any real hope for romance and a continuing relationship and how the insecure among us usually sabotage a promising lead. And Zeeland and Simpson certainly hit a chord of realism as they pretty much lay out where an inordinate number gay sexual encounters and relationships lead if they're caught up in the promiscuous subculture of the gay lifestyle, the neuroses and fears of guys looking for more than a night of groaning and sweating and an annoying preoccupation with how we perform in bed (or an SU van). The authors don't offer us much hope in the way of telling us how to step over the pitfalls on the road toward a gay happily-ever-after, but they do warn us of what we can expect. Dark humor, certainly, and it'll offer great reading for the gay guy not looking for how to find a lifelong lover or reignite a relationship gone stale. If you're looking for that, this book will probably depress you into heterosexualism.	2003-03-27
US	35524743	R1YMIVBD3CY1G	0759637946	193995519	Thousand and One Night Stands: The Life of Jon Vincent	Books	4	28	32	N	N	A private disintegration on the public stage	Just as \\"Wonder Bread ...\\" detailed the rapid rise and just as rapid fatal fall of gay porn icon Joey Stefano, so it goes here with H.A. Carson's treatment of Jon Vincent, another gay porn actor who also crossed over into bisexual films. Endowed with the handsomeness that only billboards are made for and a body to match, Vincent used both to wrangle his way to fortune and fame (no pun). Once there, however, according to Carson, Vincent, like so many others in the apparent cut-throat adult film business, obviously found fame, money and envy either unfulling or too much to handle. Either way, heroin became Vincent's comfort, and his business of sex became nothing more than a mechanical, emotionless state of being with the hope for love being so elusive as not even to be dreamable. With the heroin, Vincent went the only way that an addiction goes if not arrested: downward, in all its poverty, isolation, maybe well-intentioned but half-hearted attempts at sobriety and, sometimes mercifully, death. In the end, Vincent lost his battle to heroin, and his story in this book comes across more as one of decline and fall in a public profession and the torment of heroin addiction and less a psyco-biography to explain the reason for Vincent's (and others') self-destruction. Is it the nature of the adult business that directs its performers to drug dependency, or is it an already-present void in the souls of its performers who seek fulfillment in a physically intimate profession? We don't get the answers here, but Carson's book remains an important warning that the demons of a soul in torment will almost always unleash their lethal poison from which few emerge. It is a disturbing but important read, and it might be warning us to pay heed to the caution in the wind.	2003-03-26
US	35524743	RHEXT17BVJ910	0451407474	359716484	Goddess: The Secret Life of Marilyn Monroe	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Possibly the most complete that it can get	There will never be \\"the definitive\\" Marilyn Monroe biography without the intimate contributions of husbands No. 2 and 3, Joe DiMaggio and Arthur Miller. Even if the fabled playwright shares publicly his life with filmdom's eternal goddess, DiMaggio never did and, obviously, never will. Still, this contribution by Anthony Summers, first published in 1984, may be as close as it gets. In his acknowledgements, Summers claims a near-obsession that consumed almost two years of his life. Little wonder: he claims and minutely credits and cites more than 600 subjects who were interviewed in the course of his research. About the only criticism that can be lodged is the book's title. Implying we're about to read nothing more than the sexual conquests of the world's most famous woman of her time, we instead get a thoroughly comprehensive life history that begins even before her birth June 1, 1926, and continues well beyond her death that swelteringly hot August night in 1962. In between, thanks to Summers' prose and sources whose claims were checked and rechecked for confirmation, we get something that few other writers have achieved, much less attempted: a psycho-biograhy that explains the reasons for the legendary insecurity that Norma Jean Baker could never quite overcome even as the world's most desired woman. Even in his passages about the amazing but all-too-short film career, Summers manages to keep us focused on Norma Jean and her reality behind the facade that was Marilyn. Of course, Summers has to deal with his subject's still conroversial death, and \\"The Candle Burns Down,\\" the segment of the book that centers on Monroe's final days, is so detailed that Summers' own explanation for Marilyn's death sounds as plausible as any theory posited. No, he doesn't buy into the theory that she was murdered by the mob or Kennedy operatives, but that her death was an accidental overdose of Seconals. But Summers does submit that Monroe was cruelly exploited sexually and passed sexually from one Kennedy brother to the other, one the president and the other the attorney general, and that it was Robert Kennedy who found the overdosed star in her home and arranged for the ambulance to the hospital and, after her death en route, covered up his involvement with the help of brother-in-law Peter Lawford. Summers' exhaustively researched finished product distinguishes itself from most other Monroe books in that he doesn't exploit his subject's insecurity and private demons or sexual prowess. Instead, Monroe is treated here with dignity and respect and, in the end, we are left with the feeling that we have read Norma Jean's life history, not that of a creation named Marilyn. And it is on Norma Jean's fears that prevented her alter-ego from recognizing her own worth as both a person and actress that accounts for the legend that is Marilyn Monroe. Summers' book is an important contribution to the literature that seeks to explain and understand the fragile psyche of this truly and tragically wounded soul.	2003-03-26
US	35524743	R2B9RA7H025C0U	0060012218	103393582	Geography Club	Books	4	5	6	N	N	More than coming of age, a contemporary commentary	Though a fictional piece about a group of teen-aged gay comrades, author Brent Hartinger's \\"Geography Club\\" is less another coming-of-age story and more a reflection of the sometimes ponderous social and educational restrictions on today's teens struggling to validate themselves despite their same-sex preferences. The \\"Geography Club\\" here is intended to do just that, but peer pressure and rejection force it to become Goodkind High School's Gay-Straight-Bisexual Alliance. Given current court challenges to some schools' prohibition against such alliances, Hartinger seems to have tapped into a contemporary nerve. It's a realistic portrayal, and Hartinger's characters - Russel Middlebrook and school baseball stud Kevin Land, both of whom give in to a mutual attraction to each other - can be Everyman's teen-aged kid. Russel and Kevin, working hard to keep their covert relationship hidden, nonetheless are found out by three other teens who, coincidentally, are also gay. In trying for some degree of acceptance, even from each other, the enclave establishes the \\"Geography Club,\\" designed purposely to be so boring that no one will join it, thus protecting the hidden purpose of the club. It's only when social forces collide to bring the small gay group out into the daylight that the \\"Geography Club\\" meets a challenge from peer and educational prejudices. Hartinger's character development is incredible, and his injection of occasional expletives are by no means gratuitous but instead serve as a mirror of real life. Though the reader need not be gay to try to benefit from the book's sublimial message, it is a potentially important wakeup for the gay teen struggling for peer, parental and self-acceptance, and to parents who might get a clue to how crushing a weight their childrens' closets can be.	2003-03-25
US	35524743	R3Q2DF1MR77SW4	157344121X	304774179	The Ultimate Guide to Anal Sex for Men	Books	4	132	136	N	N	Too important to be dismissed	Considering there are books out there about how to give better oral sex, it's not surprising there'd be books about the other end. This one's from the publishers who produced the anal guide for women, but this one is for the guys, both the giver and the receiver. For that reason, this one isn't for the girls and caters exclusively to the gay and bisexual man. The frustrating taboo of anal sex that remains very much alive in the gay community is knocked down in this book, probably by necessity and the literally life-saving information it offers. Anything any guy can think of in giving or getting is here: health precautions, preparation, muscle exercises and techniques intended to make the probing experience more pleasureable. An important other section of this book is that it strongly encourages self-exploration before trying it for the first time as part of a duo (or trio, or so on). The tips on self-exploration are so effective that they may actually help a guy decide if man-to-man anal penetration is or isn't for him. The \\"how-to's\\" aside, the book is also a tremendous resource guide and points to websites for health, toys and so on to gain further knowledge. Considering the life-and-death aspects of man-to-man anal sex, this book is far too important to be tossed aside for not being written well (which it is), because of religious dogma or for whatever other reason. It is an essential companion guide that, no, won't make you \\"exerpienced\\" by reading it or \\"promote\\" this most intimate of sexual interaction as something necessary for a fully satisfying gay sex life. More than that, it may make the experience even more enjoyable for those already experiencing it.	2003-03-19
US	35524743	R1XK98YA1ZKOQZ	155583616X	286882727	Gay Men, Straight Jobs	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A near academic look at social expectations	Depending on your point of view, writer Dan Woog might be either a maverick or a pioneer. In his earlier \\"Jocks\\" series, Woog may well have essentially initiated the diaglogue that acknowledged that there are gays in pro sports. Here, in \\"Gay Men, Straight Jobs,\\" Woog again takes on the challenge of portraying gays realistically: as they behave and as they are expected to behave based on societal expectations and demands. And it's from that perspective - profiling the gay man within the framework of institutional mores - that makes Woog something of an academic sociologist. An array of occupations perhaps traditionally thought to be exclusively straight are presented here by their gay workers: police officers, fire fighters, upscale Wall Streeters and even television news reporters. What emerges is how workers in those and other fields manage to balance their sexual orientation with the expectations and mores of their respective professions, and how those expectations relate to the larger society. To gain any meaningful information from this book, particularly if you're a gay man struggling to fit into your own social and occupational frameworks, it's best to read the book as something of a self-help guide. Don't expect any simmering accounts of gay sex: if you want that, look elsewhere. More important than that, you might find something here that has actual long-term benefits.	2003-03-19
US	35524743	R2ZFA88RP3GX47	1555835147	802057681	Coming Out: A Handbook for Men	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A guide to self-acceptance	One of life's real (and unnecessary) tragedies is the closeted gay man who is regimented by years of homophobic conditioning and, as a result, can neither accept or even like himself. If he can't like himself, then, how can he let anyone else like him? Orland Outland's \\"Coming Out ...\\" is the complement of Michelangelo Signorile's classic \\"Outing Youself ...\\" and the unofficial second chapter to Rik Isensee's \\"Reclaiming Your Life: The Gay Man's Guide to Love, Self-Acceptance and Trust,\\" all three of which extend \\"permission\\" for the closeted gay man in torment to let go of the pain from the years of emotional exile, self-rejection and loathing, and get on to a life of fulfillment. The \\"condition\\" of Orland's book is that the gay man is ready to come out to family and friends, and the works by Signorile and Isensee are more intended to help the gay man out himself to himself. Once that monumental step has been taken, Orland first renders tips to come to terms with family and friends and then how to establish a healthy gay lifestyle. Of the latter, we get a road map of how to navigate all those questions that today's gay man asks (and they're not too much different than the heterosexual guy's questions), like whether or not to do the bar scene, how safe is safe sex, is political activism advised and where to look for that special other guy. Written in a friendly and warm prose, Outland's self-help guide - like those from Signorile and Isensee - nonetheless doesn't treat jovially the life-altering experience the gay man will undoubtedly have when he comes out. Far from being \\"fun\\" and light-in-the-loafers (no pun), \\"Coming Out ...\\" is actually a journey of the fragile human heart that helps the gay man begin to get rid of all that internalized homophobic garbage and get on with the business of being happy for once. A wise investment!	2003-03-13
US	35524743	R1JM6ZALLSFLH7	0805006001	962390230	The Pink Triangle: The Nazi War Against Homosexuals	Books	4	20	30	N	N	A chapter of the Holocaust not to be ignored	The sheer number of victims of Hitler's Nazi Holocaust during the Third Reich is so numbing that piling on more numbers may not even register. But the numbers are higher than the 6 million usually given and almost always in reference to the Jewish victims. Some estimates are up to double that number when other categories of what Hitler decried as \\"degenerates\\" are added, and this book calls attention to one such group, either forgotten or ignored by history, but present nonetheless. \\"Men With the Pink Triangle ...\\" chronicles one survivor's eyewitness account of a then-young Viennese student remanded to an East German concentration camp and branded with a pink triangle, the sign of its bearers as homosexuals. Writer Heinz Heger miraculously survived six years (1939-'45) of concentration camp horrors: the ever-present smell of death, the sound of war, the filth, and the inhumanity from which more died than survived. Herger's first-hand account is chilling but embarrassing because it wasn't until the 1970's, when gay liberation gained a foothold in social rights movements, that Nazi persecution of gay people was even acknowledged. That vital component in probably the darkest chapter in human history coincidentally now, in 2003, is being threatened by a state legislator in Minnesota. Republican Arlon Lidner claims that no such persecution of gays in Nazi Europe ever occurred and is somehow tying that argument to his proposal to repeal his state's human rights amendment that protects gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered persons from discrimination. Lidner's proposing further legislation to remove sexual orientation as a protected class in the state of Minnesota's hate crimes laws. How he justifies his homophobic crusade based on his argument that gays weren't gassed by their Nazi captors is unclear. But this publication may well be more relevant now than ever because a crucial part of history may be fully discarded, and by ignoring it risks it happening again. Morebroadly, though, Heger's memories are less about his persecution because of his sexual orientation and more a shattering testament to the horror that was the Holocaust and to the evil that man can do. With the generation of Holocaust survivors steadily being silenced to death, the cries from the written accounts like Heger's and others should not and cannot cannot be denied.	2003-03-12
US	35524743	R1A95G6EJDFMZK	1555831745	655787552	Bi Any Other Name: Bisexual People Speak Out	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Worthy for encouraging early dialogue	Even now, as in 1991 when this compilation of essays was published, a communnity for the bisexual person is essentially non-existent and, if contemporary studies are accurate, its members face prejudices that not even the gay community had in its evolution. \\"Bi Any Other Name,\\" one of the pioneering publications that even acknowledged much less discussed in detail the dynamics being bi, is a worthy and valid read for both men and women whose dual attractions come with a sense of isolation and self-doubt. The essays here elicit the experiences of emotions of men and women bisexuals who share their own personal issues of loneliness, shame and secrecy and, for many, how they found the courage to come to terms with themselves and the sexual mores that sometimes condemn them. Especially now, when contemporary (2003) research indicates that bisexuals are literally hated even more than gays (with the rationale being that bi's introduced AIDS into the \\"straight\\" community?), the stories of the people featured in this book may provide a source of strength and a sense that the individual is not truly alone. For an early effort, this collection of personal stories may well be more relevant now than then.	2003-03-11
US	35524743	RQ26PJEFRGPZD	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The cost of miracles through science	Curious that \\"Flowers for Algernon\\" has apparently always been billed as a sci-fi novel since its publication in the 1950's. Instead, it is a powerfully human story about an extraordinary scientific achievement put to the test and what it costs its participants. Key among them is Charley Gordon, a bakery worker with an IQ of 68 that qualifies him for the title \\"retarded\\" and the vicious jokes of coworkers. Charley comes to be selected as the first human trial of a scientific-medical procedure hoped to increase the intelligence levels of subjects with low levels. It's already been proven successful in a lab mouse named Algernon. Charley, in the early stages of testing to assess his eligibility as the first human trial, has no real sense of the reason for the tests and instead has as his only purpose to beat \\"that real smart mouse\\" in such things as maze racing. Deemed an appropriate candidate, Charley has \\"the operation\\" and soon achieves has an IQ that gives him intellectual superiority over even his experimenters. But with the higher IQ comes a keener awareness of humanity and the fragility of the human heart, stirred by a lab assistant, and the painful and fleeting quality of love. All too soon, however, Charley's artificially induced intelligence begins to break down, and his preparation for it is nothing less than heartbreaking. In brilliant prose, author Daniel Keyes utilizes a personal diary technique written by Charley, and we are privileged to see his rise from mentally challenged to intellectual giant and back again. That, then, qualifies this true literary masterpiece as a human, not a sci-fi story, and its pure, unbridled power will leave you numb. Promise. The book later was turned into the film version titled \\"Charley\\" with actor Cliff Robertson, in the title role, nailing a richly earned Best Actor Oscar.	2003-03-11
US	35524743	RAQXNW66Y7RJC	0789006502	773300926	Violence and Social Injustice Against Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual People	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Of societal and institutional discrimination	The homophobic-charged murder of Matthew Shepherd on a cold Wyoming prairie cystalized public awareness and outrage at such an unspeakable act of violence. But the national shame limited its focus on the violence of individuals at the expense of calling attention to the prejudice and discrimination that very much exists on both a societal and institutional basis. This body of work compiled by editors Lacey Sloan and Nora Gustavsson is a wake-up call to redress the socially accepted prejudice that gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered people encounter every day in laws that single them out, workplace harrassment and what is little less than unequal protection under the law. Edited as a scholarly work with a slant toward social and legal policymakers, \\"Violence and Social Injustice ...\\" nonetheless speaks to the larger social order in identifying the daily rituals of social and institutional (government agenices, police, workplace, courts) violence that, though so routine that they go virtually unnoticed, cries for social and legal redress. For the lay person and researcher alike, this book may well be the definitive research on the prevalence of social injustice for yet another group of people that social etiquette and public policy have done worse than totally ignore. Both have endorsed and promoted prejudice that, in any society, serves nothing more than to make it weaker.	2003-03-11
US	35524743	R2ALZE0CKWCLSH	0758200927	164916485	Panthers In The Skins Of Men	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Less a "story" and more sexcapades cross-country	Writer Charles Nelson promises an erotic gay novel, but it's less a story and more a cross-country blitz of free and random sex in the days when that kind of thing was safer. So, okay, it's not Shakespeare, but it doesn't promise to be. It is what it is: gay eroticism, and it comes in heaps here, and the book's jacket is but a glimmer of what lies beneath. There are plenty of guys in (and out) of uniforms, from lead character Kurt Storm who is discharged from the Navy after a year of celebacy in Vietnam. Hitching on the New Jersey Turnpike, Nick is picked up (literally) by another man in unforum, a macho (and married)stud of a state trooper named Nick. From there, Kurt and Nick set off cross-country to conquer whatever temptation comes their way. There are a lot of them, too, from the Navy SEAL hustler, the two hitchhiking Tufts University students, a couple of seductive FBI agents who are packing more than the usual credential, a bachelor party where the seeds of gay sex are planted virtually everywhere and, believe it or not, a six-way guy-bang involving a father and son (talk about keeping it in the family!). Every homoerotic fantasy conceiveable is played out here, and the \\"story\\" line is really nothing more than a shot at mainstream literature. That one falls short here but, then again, this isn't Pulitzer Prize material. It's little more than a collection of gay sexual experiences with the goal of getting its reader off, and it certainly doesn't fall short on that count. If nothing else, the cover alone makes the book worth it!	2003-03-11
US	35524743	R23N1KH41JIY2F	1555837522	589691632	Going Down: The Instinct Guide to Oral Sex	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Talk about oral exams!	Who could guess that among the annals of self-help books is one to enhance the pleasure of oral sex? Well, here it is and, if you can get beyond the turn-on feeling from the descriptive narrative, there might be a lesson to be learned in giving better sex, man or woman. Approaching oral copulation from an instinctual rather than mechanical perspective, \\"Going Down\\" offers reasons why oral sex is usually perfomed with an effort on the conscious \\"mechanics\\" that go into making it a pleasureable experience but which can actually make it less so by weakening the spontaneous instincts that accentuate it. For as silly as that might sound, anyone on either end might be surprised by how tantalizing some of the suggestions in the book can be, like deep-throating and massaging pubic hairs. One bit of silliness in this book, though, is the black and white drawings. Real-life models would have been a lot more educational! Still, for those of us whose pleasure comes more from giving rather than receiving, the improved reviews will give you a sense of satisfaction. For those who get off by getting it, you might be surprised by what you might be missing.	2003-03-10
US	35524743	R2DUC63SJRYRCB	0830823794	340948585	A Parent's Guide to Preventing Homosexuality	Books	2	30	65	N	N	Maybe well-intentioned, but a doctrine of separation	Always a risky foray into the emotional battlefield where combatants are almost always labeled anti- or pro-gay. The very title of this supposed self-help road map proceeds from what it says it can do: \\"prevent\\" homosexuality. That in mind, don't expect to hear the other side because that's not the purpose of this book. Thus, venture forward forewarned. In the theory of the book's authors, Joseph and Linda Nicolosi, being gay can be avoided by making sure the kids are bonding with their same-sex parent. Boys seem to be targeted here, and there's virtually no discussion about how to stop girls from \\"going\\" lesbian. For the boys, then, make sure they've got a tight bond with their fathers and do the \\"masculine\\" things that are dictated by socially accepted gender roles, and they'll be \\"spared\\" from homosexuality. The counter-arguments to that ideology are too easy, and few \\"for's\\" and \\"against's\\" ever make much headway. As such, the main problem with this book isn't what it says, it's what it doesn't say. It isn't honest enough to address the chance of failure and what happens to the parents and their gay child in the likely emotional wreckage to follow. Nor does it speak to the issues unique to bisexual and transgendered persons. And by avoiding these matters, Nicolosi and Nicolosi are advancing (probably unintentionally) an anti-family doctrine that promotes non-diversity, the seperation of the gay child from his parents and relgating the gay person to the status of being someone reviled, rejected and discarded. But, then again, the book's very title clearly indicates that what's ahead is a closed discussion. From that vantage point, then, the parent who is desperate to prevent his child from going gay may find some value here. For the parent who doesn't want to change his child and instead wants to embrace the whole rather than reject the whole based on one characteristic, you won't find any pointers in acceptance here. Get that in another book and venture forwardwith your gay child in peace and love.	2003-03-07
US	35524743	R3NOT726YEMNJK	1886939470	211612830	Coming Out Straight : Understanding and Healing Homosexuality	Books	2	12	26	N	N	It's not been something needing healing for 30 years	This book's very title compromises its credibility from the onset: by invoking the word \\"healing,\\" the implication that what needs healing - homosexuality - is a sickness (like a cold) or something broken (like a human heart) that can be healed. Terrific, but it ignores the fact that homosexuality was removed from the American Medical Association's list of mental illnesses in 1973. In fairness, though, the author, Richard Cohen (and Laura Schlessinger in a predictable homophobic foreward), doesn't promise an open discussion and proceeds on the given that the gay person can be \\"cured.\\" He also proceeds from the perspective of gays and lesbians who, for their own reasons, want to \\"convert\\" to heterosexualism. Those two given's in mind, Cohen elaborates on the theories of Joseph and Linda Nicolosi that are presented in their study, \\"A Parent's Guide to Preventing Homosexuality.\\" Theirs, in essence, is the theory that homosexuality is grounded in gender confusion and that being gay can be \\"prevented\\" by making sure boys are tight with their fathers and do the appropriate \\"masculine\\" things assigned by socially defined gender roles. Cohen also adds emotional traumas as contributors to homosexuality. To his credit, he is sympathetic and logical and makes a logical case by citing psychosocial and non-demoninational religious theology, and a chunk of his book includes testimonials from some three dozen ex-gays who were \\"healed\\" by his program. But, like Nicolosi and Nicolosi in their book, Cohen doesn't meet the challenge to discuss what happens if someone's homosexuality isn't \\"healed,\\" nor the possible emotional devastation that is a very real risk. In failing to do that, Cohen is one more in the chorus that consigns the gay person as someone to be purged from the family and cast into self-loathing and rejection. For anyone wanting \\"healed,\\" there may be some benefit to Cohen's ideas. For someone who doesn't believe there's anything to be healed and instead is looking forguidance to accept and embrace their gay child, you have to get another book. With it, walk on with your gay child with love and pride.	2003-03-07
US	35524743	RGG8MKYFCTACO	0195084829	409807830	Dual Attraction: Understanding Bisexuality	Books	4	14	19	N	N	A thesis before its time?	Perhaps, considering a 2003 survey published in the Journal of Sex Research that concluded \\"heterosexuals dislike bisexuals more than gays, lesbians and most religous or enthnic groups,\\" and that women tended to feel negative towards bisexual or gay men and women alike while men were more prone to rate bixsexual or gay men lower than they would bisexual or lesbian women. The earlier \\"Dual Attraction ...\\" coincidentally hints of similar findings, but goes significantly further than the more recent survey. Most notably, a distinction is made between the bisexual and gay male although both seem mostly to be lumped together in social and research terms. Maybe because of that, any serious study of bisexuality in particular is sparse. The bisexual male, then, is somewhat \\"invisible,\\" accounting for the fact that most clinicial and social discussion and advocacy come from the bisexual female. And, consistent with the more recent study, the Indiana University sociologists behind \\"Dual Attraction ...\\" also come up with a reason that the bisexual male is apparently regarded beneath the gay male and lesbian and bisexual woman. The bisexual man, unlike the gay male, so the theory goes, is self-focused, preoccupied with sex and so sexually experienced with both genders that he feels superior to all, even the straight man. Add to that the apparent belief that bisexual men gave AIDS to the straight community, and the bisexual's social position plummets. Of course, the conclusions in \\"Dual Attraction ...\\" are pre-suppositioned on the hotly disputed Masters and Johnson opinion years earlier that sexual orientation is a choice rather than a biological pre-determinant. Even discarding that idea, however, \\"Dual Attraction ...\\" still comes out as something of a pioneering effort in acknowledging the existence and explaining the dynamics behind bisexuality. Perhaps no other published work has gone so far as this research. But is it relevant? Quite possibly, considering various surveys put between 25 percent and 75 percent the number of men in America having sex with other men.	2003-03-06
US	35524743	R1U0EQ98ZX8QRN	0971084602	430459301	Of the Flesh: Dangerous New Fiction	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A darker side of gay love and sex	Greg Wharton has edited this 20-story compilation of fictional gay love and sex, but the fiction may not really be too far from reality. Don't be surprised if at least one of the stories speaks to a personal experience and, if the reader is attentive enough to rise (no pun intended) above the purient and carnalism, he may hear a warning. The use of the word \\"danger\\" in the title isn't there for nothing, and the unspoken cautionary warnings could qualify this book as the gay version of \\"Looking for Mr. Goodbar.\\" Just about every dynamic that can manipulate sex into a truly dangerous physical and emotional threat is here, from using sex as both a physical and emotion weapon, perverting love into a sword to get it on with nothing but getting off the goal, and the human heart in its fragility and how it can be too easily broken. If the writers of these stories were asking their readers if they believe sex can be dangerous, the answer's clear: God, yes! But they also seem to be warning us that the while the flesh can heal (sometimes), the human heart - so easily manipulated and broken - might not heal. Beyond that, this compilation is amazing because it is uncomfortably realistic in that each scenario can easily be a slice of real life. Some of us may be grateful that we eluded the dangers of some of our own experiences, but \\"Of the Flesh ...\\" may be telling us not to push it and that, if we do, our luck's eventually going to run out. Anyone not interested in drawing the parallels between fiction and reality and is looking only for some sizzling descriptions of gay sex will have no problem getting turned on and getting off to any of the stories the book features.	2003-03-06
US	35524743	R2CEAL5K8R4I69	088048716X	773563829	Textbook of Homosexuality and Mental Health	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A comprehensive resource	By positing homosexuality as a normal variance from heterosexuality and apparently agreeing with the official medical stand that being gay isn't a mental illness, editors Robert Cabaj and Terry Stein may also be debunking Masters' and Johnsons' opinion in the 1950's that being homosexual and lesbian is a choice. That may well be the most controversial issue in this comprehensive, amazingly detailed resource for just about any and all questions about homosexuality. Addressed essentially to the professionals whose work brings them into contact with gays and lesbians, we get a fairly extensive history of homosexuality and its relationship to the mental health profession, from its early days when it was thought to be \\"curable\\" by treatment to the 1973 decision that removed it as a psychiatric disorder, then to contemporary issues. Along the way, though, diverse dynamics such as genetics, demographics, environmental cues, psychological and pre-determinant factors, substance addiction, violence, suicide, religion and, of course, AIDS are thoroughly dissected. Further, the editors even include issues unique to bisexuals and minority gays, subjects that have generated little serious published discussion. This book is not and does not pretend to be for casual reading and, instead, targets mental health, medical and religious providers. But it should also be required of the judiciary whose judges still continue to sentence gays charged with various offensives perceived as sexual in nature to counseling and therapy because they gay, a contradiction to the official psychiatric line that homosexuality is not a mental illness. For anyone shuffling through the mountain of books about homosexuality (most of which advance \\"cures\\" and religion as getting on the straight and narrow) but not interested in opinion and pontificating, this is the one excellent resource to consult with questions that require little more than \\"yes\\" and \\"no\\" answers. Incredibly, it gives us answers to questions we might not think even exist.	2003-03-06
US	35524743	R35AMFI6N9HVMN	1555833837	437683724	Wonder Bread & Ecstasy: The Life and Death of Joey Stefano	Books	4	3	6	N	N	An Everyman's tale of life and its cruelties	He was born in south Philadephia Nicholas Iacona Jr. Jan. 1, 1968, which the author of \\"Wonder Bread ..\\" points out was one of America's flashpoints in near self-implosion. Just 26 years later, in 1994, Nick died of a drug overdose. More than an all-too-common tragic story of a young, young person getting into drugs and OD'ing, somewhere along the line in Nick's life, he became gay porn icon Joey Stefano. Author Charles Isherwood mercifully respects his subject's memory by not commenting on his obvious physical endowment but, instead, gives us a portrait of a multi-faceted personality desperate for validation by anything other than what Isherwood describes as a cruel film industry in which its stars live and die by their bodies that are as easily thrown out as last week's garbage. It's not really clear what happened to Nick after he became Joey, but Isherwood may only be positing possibilities. Was he scarred by the thorns of his industry, or had it happened years earlier when Nick's father couldn't or wouldn't give his son the love and acceptance he craved? Whichever, Nick made the all-too-frequent lethal decision to seek solace and self-acceptance in drugs, and they're what got him in the end. But if they hadn't, HIV complications or AIDS would have eventually. And it presumably was the devastating combo of drugs and HIV presumably that physically devoured Joey long before his death. By then, he was virtually unrecognizable from the wholesome Wonder bread kid who would become a gay icon. His is a tragic and sad story of pain, drugs and reckless sex that, if our own houses aren't cleand up, threatens Everyman.	2003-03-06
US	35524743	R2DKULZVIM2GCG	1555832830	863996759	My First Time: Gay Men Describe Their First Same-Sex Experience	Books	4	14	14	N	N	More than loss of virginity, a history of social attitudes	Jack Hart is possibly known more for his gay erotic fiction than non-fictionalized works: who wouldn't be curious about the stories of identified straight men and their first same-sex encounters (\\"Straight? True Stories of Unexpected Sexual Encounters Between Men\\")? This entry features real-life gays who identify themselves as such and their memories (both carnal and emotive) of their first experiences with gay sex. Hart spices the accounts with his trademark steamy and graphic descriptions of man-to-man sex, usually to the extent that we wish we could be so lucky. But this is more than a how-I-lost-my-virginity tell-all: Hart truly distinguishes this compilation of first-time encounters by breaking them into their time frames, such as what being gay meant in the 1930's, then the '60s and, in conclusion, the '90s. Whether or not by design, Hart manages to convey in his interviewees' memoirs their perception of the society in which they lived. With that technique, we get a sense of the evolution of homosexuality in terms of self and societal attitudes, from the aboluste fear of detection in the sexually repressed '30s to the free love of the '60s and the less (but nonetheless present) forces of supression of the '90's where, we might conclude, being gay is a lot easier and safer. For anyone looking simply to get off to some sizzling and provocative tales of men getting it on with each other, he (or she?) can usually get it in any of Hart's material. In this one, though, if we can get beyond the need for carnal satisfaction, we almost get a sense of the social history of being gay and how we might have gotten from there to here.	2003-03-03
US	35524743	R2ZOR5GS4PQOXN	1560252294	323409035	Straight Parents, Gay Children: Inspiring Families to Live Honestly and with Greater Understanding	Books	3	25	29	N	N	Great for parents who want enlightenment	And that's the problem with this book, if it's not read within its parameters. Robert A. Bernstein, inspired to write his book after his teenage daughter came out as a lesbian, has some wonderful examples of parental support of gay, lesbian, bi and transgendered children, and support for parents is the reason for the book. And the history of the parental group (P-FLAG) of such children is intriguing and informative. Certainly, just as gay and lesbian children need the support of their families, so their parents need their unique support systems. Unfortunately, parents who reject not only their childrens' \\"alternate\\" lifestyles but their children in whole, aren't likely to read Bernstein's book simply because they probably don't want to understand what they disdain for whatever reason. The real-life parent-child relationships posited here are wonderful, and it would be truly magnificent if all parent-child relationships could be as they are here. Additionally, the children in this book are older, not necessarily pre- and teenagers, thus exluding the parents of these age-specific issues. Further, many of the children cited here are usually on track toward personal and professional fulfillment, quite likely partly because of their parents' support. Unfortunately, a great many others, if not more, have either been fully abandoned by their parents and family or, if they haven't, don't have what could qualify as anything nearing a healthy relationship with their parents. By its title, Bernstein's novel is directed toward parents, and certainly they need support just as much as their children. But to conclude that all gay and lesbian children have their families' unconditional love and support would be a tragic mistake. Unfortunately, all too many parents, presumably affected by the fears and prejudices of homophobia, will likely never accept their childrens' alternative choices and will never have a need for a book like this. But for those parents who do, Bernstein's workis a wonderful beginning toward understanding.	2003-03-03
US	35524743	RXF7FOI1RW1IZ	0140065172	529046584	Ordinary People	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A family on a collision course with disintigration	It's little wonder that actor Robert Redford, when he forayed into the field of directing, selected author Judith Guest's novel about a family headed for oblivion as his freshman project. &quot;Ordinary People,&quot; the film, starred, of course, Mary Tyler Moore and Donald Sutherland as the parents of two sons, the older of whom drowns in a boating accident and the younger who survives with the agonizing guilt for living, perhaps to the emotional rejection of his mother. But before the film won 1980's Best Picture Oscar and Redford a Best Director statue, there was the novel, and author Guest's treatment of a family headed for destruction is both excrutiating but magnificently honest in its feelings that she gives her characters. Unlike the film, though, the book closes with some glimmer of hope for at least one of the three members of a family whose self-implosion is feared but can't be avoided. But like the film, Guest doesn't cheat us in her novel by insulting us with a everyone-lives-happily-ever-after absolution. On the contrary, no one leaves a family structure that has collapsed and heads for a happily-ever-after destiny. That's not how it usually works in the real world, and Guest doesn't insult our intelligence by giving her fictional family a happy ending. &quot;Ordinary People,&quot; the book, remains an accurate and honest look at a family falling apart at the seams, and it was the foundation of a film as equally powerful.	2003-02-28
US	35524743	RQ76Q8RJH0THX	0201095955	923732687	Double Play: The San Francisco City Hall Killings	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Countdown to death and mayhem	The city of San Francisco and, to a lesser extent, the nation were throttled in November 1978 when a former city supervisor named Dan White opened fire and killed Mayor George Moscone and city supervisor Harvey Milk. Author Mike Weiss' book is one of the few that ticks down the seconds to the double killing and, though no one knew it at the time, to a social uprising that left much of the city in ruin. That Harvey Milk was the city's first openly gay official sparked a fury in the city's dense homosexual population and ignited speculation that White's motive, in part, was his acknowledged anti-gay position. For many, that two men were gunned down for such a hallow reason was perhaps only a small part of the complete story, and Weiss' book mercifully does not blame White's crime solely on homophobia. Instead, we get a picture of a professionally and financially desperate man whose act may have been largely to avenge his not being reinstated to his job after he resigned. San Franciscans literally exploded, however, when what they perceived as an open-and-shut case of murder warranting a death sentence was deemed by a jury to be voluntary manslaughter, and the protests in the city's streets came to be known as the \\"White Night Riots\\" with property damages in the millions. For all practical purposes, the city's nightmare ended with White's suicide after his parole from prison after just six years. This nuts-and-bolts synopsis is greatly detailed by Weiss' vivid reconstruction of the personalities and politics that were on a collision course, and his work emerges as an informative commentary on a major event in the city's rich history. Additionally, while there have been some books written about both Moscone and Milk, few (if any) have been done about their killer. To some extent, Weiss manages to give us an in-depth character study of White and which few other writers have even attempted, much less achieved. In sum, this book has murder, sex, politics and family, theirultimate collision that eventually cost three lives is all the more tragic because it really happened.	2003-02-27
US	35524743	R1XDLWNVGW42F8	1555833527	791908063	The Day We Met: The Very First Day of Long-Term Relationships	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For anyone who needs to be in love	Jack Hart's fourth published book is something a deviation from his trademark writings about hot-and-heavy man-to-man sex that usually comes with no strings attached and whose value is little more than simply getting off. But in \\"The Day We Met ...\\" Hart treats us to the nonfiction accounts of men who've worked into long-term relationships and find out that love can be found in the least likely places. Each of the entries in the book have come-on scenarios involving guys whose eyes have caught one another, from casual and chance meetings, to long-standing friendships that blossom into more and love that comes even from one-night stands. Unlike most books of this genre, these real-life accounts give us some hope that romance and live can be found, and that there's hope for the guy who isn't but knows he needs to be in love. The book cover nothwithstanding, what it promises really is inside, and the descriptions of sexual encounters are steamy to say the least. But they take second to the romance and love that can come from it. Refreshingly, although certainly erotic, this book is less erotic and more substantial and, throughout to the end, we develop a hope that chance can come our way and love someday might be more than sweat and passion in the dark.	2003-02-26
US	35524743	R1Z3BSJUEMX661	0618134298	207960543	Why I Am a Catholic	Books	4	10	17	N	N	Or, "The Origin of Faith"	Respected political and social columnist and commentator Garry Wills has taken on some controversial issues before, and he certainly does likewise here. Although \\"Why I Am a Catholic\\" was written from the vantage point of the Church's hierarchy and its relationship to the faith of the faithful, it is as most certainly pertinent to the fallout from the scandal of the American Church's apparent coverup of child sexual abuse by the pedophile clergy. While the title of Wills' work might imply a personal defense of his religious preference (and it is to a very limited degree), the book is more a history of Catholocism, its papacy and Scriptural creeds on which the faith of the faithful are based. In his trademark logic, Wills relates those factors to the Church's hierarchy and, as such, an unasked question of the reader arises: in just what do we as individual Catholics place our faith? The man-made bureaucracy and hierarchy of the Church? Or the Scripture from which our faith evolves? Whatever our private answer, we might be able to distinguish if whatever crisis we have is one of faith or one of man. Wills doesn't answer that question in his own personal recollections as a Catholic, but he offers a hint: unlike so many other Catholic memoirs, Wills has no bad memories or experiences. In the end, the complicated question of why we as Catholics stay that way is really so very devinely simple. Faith trusted to any man-made institution risks criticism and, many times, scandal. Faith entrusted to God, the true Father of our faith, will never be scandalized. For this Catholic (who voluntarily converted from Pentecostalism), why am I a Catholic? My faith is in the God of my Church, not the men who create and administer its bureaucracy. Certainly there are disagreements with some of the Church's political and social statements. But, just as Vatican II brought the Church into the 20th century, history supports the hope that another such conclave will bring it into the 21st century.	2003-02-25
US	35524743	R3GNDWPH2HO4DX	1893007170	333924409	Alcoholics Anonymous: The Big Book	Books	5	4	13	N	N	Keep It Simple, Stupid!	It's the KISS of Alcoholics Anonymous, and its program of freedom from alcohol, in the words of the fellowship's co-founders, is so very simple that the wet brain can't resist the drama of complicating it. But the 12 Steps, in the words of Bill W. and Dr. Bob, whose kitchen meeting in Ohio in 1935 spawned a global program that 70 years later has given hope to millions, are so uncomplicated that they're good even for the non-alcoholic. From admitting &quot;we were powerless over alcohol (and) that our lives had become unmanageable&quot; to &quot;having had a spirtual awakening&quot; and carrying &quot;the message to (other) alcoholics&quot; and practicing the steps' &quot;principles in all our affairs,&quot; AA's recovery program is a call to action that puts both the responsibility and recovery squarely on the addict's shoulders. To that end, the steps empower the sufferer to wrest control over the uncontrollable, that over alcohol, and hand-design their personal recovery and maintenance program with the help of the Higher Power that can be whatever the recovering addict identifies it to be: God, an oak tree that has survived the deadliest tornado and blizzard and anything else that is stronger than the alcohol. The miracle of the 12 steps is that the recovery program they help build is different from one recovering alcoholic to the other and that, through the years, the program changes as one grows. That's as it should be, of course, because life itself is an ever-changing process where needs change. Sobriety once attained, it can be maintained and strengthened by the steps and, when the rosebuds in the garden of sobriety yield an occasional thorn, the program carries us through the pains of a cut. To anyone still imprisoned by the bottle and to their families and friends who can't endure the agony of witnessing the daily disintegration of a loved one, KISS off! Keep it simple, stupid, and grab the lifelong lifeline to recovery that is AA and its related other recovery programs.	2003-02-24
US	35524743	R1BKW2PL0OEUGW	1560232579	308223639	From Hate Crimes to Human Rights: A Tribute to Matthew Shepard	Books	4	7	9	N	N	From fear to action	This scholarly work, dedicated to the memory of Matthew Shepard, whose brutal homophobic killing mobilized a nation to cry out in anger and shame, is an important contributor to the understanding of the basis of crimes of violence against minority groups targeted by a shameful segment of the majority. As a research project with multiple contributors, the legal definition of a hate crime is provided as the basis of explaining the reasons that acts of violence against minorities qualify as hate crimes, the origins of various prejudices that fuel and \\"justify\\" acts of violence and how many states have failed or ignored the cry to enhance the legal sanctions for acts of violence based solely on prejudice, racism, homophobia and other dynamics that figure into the equation. In addition to addressing prejudice as it applies to the individual, the research here also addresses the prejudice that is inherent in society and some of its institutions and how their discrimination against certain minorities constitute a form of violence (societal vs. individual). It is somewhat disgraceful how many are the states which have not even acknowledged the existence of institutional hate crimes much less provided equal redress. One cannot help but be moved by either anger or shame at the violence perpetrated on people solely on the basis of their sexual orientation, religion, gender, race and national origin, among others. But as other public figures through U.S. history turned their anger and shame into action for equality, this project issues a call to action that empowers the targets of hate crimes with judicial and societal equality. That action alone may well be the optimal expression to the memory of a young, young man whose ultimate death began tied to a fence on a cold, wind-swept Wyoming prairie.	2003-02-24
US	35524743	R2CWKW8GOL6CG	0595154441	991355343	Through The Ruins	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Fiction with a mix of bittersweet reality	The ruins to which author Stephen M. Hart refers are the real and imagined pains of deception, lies, loss and self-loathing that are all too real when a closeted married man is outed against his will, by his own wife. Though fiction, the distinction of this novel is that it could very easily be the bio of countless men trapped in real-life by the scenario on which Hart's made-up story is based. In it, the unsuspecting wife finds a newspaper of gay personals and, to her excrutiating pain and anger, gets the feared confirmation that her husband is seeking sex out of the usual extramarital sense. Her discovery sets in motion the emotional ruins that follow in the wake, and they come to include the wife's sense of betrayal by the man she thought she loved and who loved her, the husband's guilt and self-loathing and self-imposed physical and emotional isolation. The latter isn't helped much when the wife dies, and the main character is left basically in a landfill of ruin from which he must somehow emerge renewed and go forward for, by then, there is no going back. Even in that rising from the ruins, however, the wife's death does nothing to clear the emotional wreckage. The kind of love that Hart's main character seeks does come his way but, we are not allowed to forget, it comes with a price. Promoted as essentially a gay novel, \\"Though the Ruins\\" is less that and more mainstream that some might expected. For that reason, the book is a lesson to both men and women in the need and wisdom of honesty and, in the end, might be telling us that love is too precious a commodity to abuse as a reason to stay in the darkness of the closet because, finally, that existence that almost always eventually is forced into the daylight promises nothing but ruin. Hart's novel is a moving account of one man's desperate journey to self-acceptance, and it's not as fictional as we might think.	2003-02-24
US	35524743	R14HY3VKS1E61B	0449908208	765015738	Against Our Will: Men, Women, and Rape	Books	4	10	16	N	N	Rape, power and violence: the definitive sociological study	The term ground-breaking has probably been misused in reviews of scholoastic and sociological studies through the years, but the social and judicial ground actually shook when Susan Brownmiller unleashed her empirical study of rape, its impact on both men and women, and its implication for both the social and criminal justice systems. As it was heralded in 1975, \\"Against Our Will ...\\" remains the definitive work that forced the act of rape to be redefined as a crime of power and violence with the challenge to society to treat it as such. Amazingly and more shamefully, even in 1975 the act of rape was generally regarded as sexual coercison that, although prosecuted, nonetheless was in part due to the victim's \\"encouraging\\" it. That idea now is rightfully tossed as judicially and politically incorrect. But it wasn't until Brownmiller brought the act that had been consigned to the dark into the light for criminal and social rethinking. Because of that truly ground-breaking challenge, the act of rape was wholly reconsidered and accurately characterized as a felony crime of power and violence with sex having a far distant role, if any. At the same time, the social system was sufficiently rattled to initiate treatment, refuge and judicial services for the victim, and they remain with us today. This study is a must for any victim of this unspeakable crime of violence, for anyone who has committed it and to the professional who has to deal with the victim's and their loved ones' physical and emotional devastation. \\"Against Our Will ...\\" remains one of the essentials in guiding public policy. Truly, a shattering achievement!	2003-02-20
US	35524743	R1DUTCRQS141V	1555837638	428025231	Different People: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Art imitating life	The provocative book jacket notwithstanding, author Orland Outland's \\"Different People\\" may be about gay life and relationships, but it's not one of those books that eludes the gay sexual escapades of which fantasies are made. Instead, it is a novel in the mainstream sense and, though fiction, smacks all too bittersweetly of reality, and the main characters can easily be straight or anything else. \\"Different People\\" refers to main characters Cal Hewitt and Eric Hamilton (for whom the former has the hots) and how the circumstances of their different lives doom any chance for love, until a series of tragedies brings the pair together again, after literally a lifetime of passing acknowledgments. Love and romance blossom then, but the reader is made all too painfully aware that it's to be an all-too-brief time of happiness for both men. But how Cal and Eric get to that point is sometimes all too real: one tightly closeted and full of homophobic hate for himself, the other an out-and-out gay stud, and their separate journeys that end with them taking a chance on love with each other winds through Reno, Nev., San Francisco and New York City. On their way, Cal and Eric each have their stories, all of them all to real like death of loved ones, AIDS, addiction and, to some extent, self-destruction by way of drug abuse and risky sex. \\"Different People,\\" being mainstream-caliber, may be too tame for the well-versed gay reader, but distinguishes itself as smacking of truth although fiction. And in many, many respects, Cal and Eric could have been straight or a man and woman couple, so applicable are their experiences to the mainstream.	2003-02-20
US	35524743	R3UGL5RH2AH75X	0312287135	301450171	Why the Long Face?: The Adventures of a Truly Independent Actor	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Straight or gay, a megadose of feel-good!	Marketed as a book by an openly gay author-actor, \\"Why the Long Face?\\" has little to do with sexual orientation and far more about one man's dealing with both the predicted and unexpected curves that life throws everyone's way. Writer Craig Chester's near-autobiography begins inauspiciously as a product of born-again zealouts and grandson of a trailer park grandmother. Along the way, the young Chester has to deal with the usual stuff like the summer camp from hell and pimples and, as a young man, the realization and acceptance of his sexual preference, good and bad relationships and the lessons he's culled from each. In the end, Chester's life isn't so much different than the \\"normal\\" kid and guy growing up and then, once there, dealing with the life issues of career, relationship and so on. As in real life, Chester's life isn't always the comedy that he uses to describe life's commonalities. But he has a magnificent humor and witty method of putting it to word, and \\"Why the Long Face?\\" emerges a bittersweet melodrama that real life usually is, and we almost have a suspicion that the characters Chester talks about are something fiction is made of. Being straight or gay is no qualification for getting a smile, a few screams of laughter and a couple of tears that this one man's life story provides and, to a great degress, it's not really too much different from anyone else's. What is different is how to accept the grace and healing power of humor that can get us above life's disappointments and sometimes painful realities.	2003-02-19
US	35524743	R33AAGRO3Q9OA3	0671019015	226338437	Looking for Mr. Goodbar (Washington Square Press.)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Caution on the road to love	Judith Rossner's warning in her novel to take a flashlight when we visit the darkest corners of sexual experimentation is forever relevant. \\"Looking for Mr. Goodbar\\" (the title not a character but a pick-up bar) gives us a Catholic teacher of deaf children who, after dark, takes on a truly dark character and sets out on the bar scene looking for sex and, maybe if she's lucky, love. But the search for both is strewn with broken hearts, disappointments and dangers, as Theresa finds out too late. Rossner's main character comes across as a basically desperate human scarred by years of indifferent parents, a sister who was preferred in childhood over her and a low self-image caused by a curved spine (although later corrected by surgery). In seeking approval, validation, redemption and love, Theresa ventures forth into the darkness and risks of anonymous sex and, of course, not finding in the darkness what she seeks. The accomplishment of \\"Goodbar\\" is Rossner's uncanny ability to focus on and then bare the desperation that fuels any person's search for love or whatever it's called. All too often, the searchers who wander too far into the blackness meet the same final fate that Theresa does, and Rossner's descriptive talents of that fate spare no one. Hers is a cautionary tale that, if we must, don't go too far into the night without a light on in the brain. Without it, we may never get a second chance. The book was later turned into a theatrical film with Diane Keaton turning in a tremendous performance. Both the film and book warrant attention and respect of the dangers of the night.	2003-02-18
US	35524743	R2JML9Q1OLDOV7	015114981X	558043683	The Burning Bed	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A pioneering study in domestic violence	The 1984 NBC telepic with Farrah Fawcett probably got more attention than Faith McNulty's book on which it was inspired. In the realm of \\"Men, Women and Rape,\\" still regarded as the definitive study of rape as an act of violence, \\"The Burning Bed\\" does likewise on the subject of domestic violence. Based on the 1970's trial of a battered wife and mother who doused her passed out, drunken husband with gasoline before sending him off in flames, McNulty calls attention to the shame and silence with which the subject of spousal abuse was given, even in that era. The author does a masterful job in detailing the victim's years of physical and mental abuse, so much and so many that triggered what we now call post-traumatic stress or battered wife syndromes. But without those clinical identifications and before it become vogue not to have to be beaten, the wife and mother here is charged with premediated murder, and her only legal defense then was a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. That that was the only plea victims of violence had, in modern history, is shameful unto itself, and McNulty's book doesn't pooh-pooh the subject and confronts it openly and critically. In many respects, the success of the TV adaptation overshadowed the actual book, and that's a shame. Even more than in the dramatization, the book delves into the deepest and darkest pits of domestic violence, brings it to light and commands the judicial system and private citizenry to demand that the matter become a public policy issue. Obviously, McNulty's position paid off. Now, unlike then, the victims of domestic crimes really do have a choice, and that choice no longer is solely physical retaliation against the perpetrator.	2003-02-17
US	35524743	R20WVC7P9BAM15	0308101227	146058398	Joan--the reluctant Kennedy;: A biographical profile	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Portrait of a soul in turmoil	It is, of course, Jackie who has the most bios written of the Kennedy women. But in the midst of her dignity and class and Ethel's forthright personality, there is Joan, now ex-wife of Sen. Ted. This 1970's-era bio is certainly aptly titled: this unKennedy-esque wife was, during most of her marriage, in the background, tormented in silence by her own insecurity and her husband's philandering and its most publicized tragedy in 1969. &quot;Joan, the Reluctant Kennedy&quot; delves more into that part of the woman who never quite felt a part of the clan, but does something of a disservice by glossing over the years-long battle with alcoholism, her slips and relapses and the lessons she might provide that might spare other sufferers her elongated torment. Stunningly beautiful, certainly, but Joan Kennedy was and remains a person of substance, in many respects emotionally fragile but, despite that, a fighter who broke from her general anonymity as another Kennedy wife and established her own identity in music and poetry. While this book doesn't cover the last 30 years of Mrs. Kennedy's life, it does take us up to her son's cancer surgery and her turmoils before. This bio is an admirable effort, and it's somewhat disappointing that other biographers apparently haven't deemed this lady interesting enough for an updated portrait. But this is a worthy start.	2003-02-16
US	35524743	R2RPPUEFXIL58V	1931160031	743147737	D.O.C.: Lust Letters	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A cautionary tale about the darker side of love and sex	For anyone whose thirst is quenched by lusty and rough-and-tumble man-to-man sex, \\"D.O.C.: Lust Letters\\" is a must-read for both its heavy-breathing sexual content and ingenious injection of words of caution about the darker side of gay sexual promiscuity. Authors Paul Beckford and Kevin Dax lay out in sexually stimulating honesty their cyperspace meeting via e-mail correspondence and their eventual slide into San Francisco's gay underground where safe sex (in a city devastated in the first of the two decades of AIDS) is moot, and participants basically take their chances playing Russian Roulette. That darker side of gay sex takes us back to old haunts some of us abandoned out of fear of anonymous and unprotected sex - in parks, bathhouses, sex clubs, et al. Along their way, Beckford and Dax come across an assortment of characters, from out-and-out flaming queens to the downrodden and weary non-queens who thirst for gay sex and risk literally all to get it. Reading like a compilation of e-mails, the book is both a seductive and appetizing odyssey of hot and bawdy man sex and, at the same time, a cautionary tale that begs us to keep a light on in our brains when we dare delve into the darker corners of love and sex. Really, this one is a must for any and all wanting either stimulating sex or a guide to safer avenues.	2003-02-14
US	35524743	RMEET76FDOIUO	0316075582	117248596	Betrayal: The Crisis in the Catholic Church	Books	4	12	20	N	N	A Crisis of Man, not Faith	Ripped from headlines that have been contemporary for more than a year, \\"Betrayal ...\\" is the Boston Globe newspaper's investigative staff product of the problem of pedophiles and molesters (and there's a significant distinction between the two) in the Catholic priesthood. What may sound like editorializing seems to be verified by supporting documentation of priests who victimize boys of all from adolesence to young adulthood, and the book reads more like an elongated newspaper article, not that that's bad. But, at its heart, \\"Betrayal ...\\" maps out what a convincing argument that an inordinate number of child molesters seem to be in the clergy. If you can get past the sheer devastation of divine trust shattered and totally destroyed and the childhoods literally decimated, \\"Betrayal ...\\" also posits the question of why the child abuse crisis exists. One plausible theory, though certainly not justification for sex with children, is that the celibate nature of the priesthood perverts sexual desire to the expression of child molesting. That one sounds, and one would hope, more plausible than the terrifying other possibility that the priesthood attracts what \\"Betrayal ...\\" classifies as homosexuals. With that theory, however, the unfair and inaccurate implication that homosexuals are also child molesters isn't satisfactorily explored and dismissed. On this count, \\"Betrayal ...\\" might be serving the hopefully unintended fears that fuel homophobia. More fully, though, the book states clearly what is indeed a crisis by any standard. The non-Catholic whose church is not under fire may not be as moved by the sense of betrayal that the Catholic faithful may inevitably suffer. However, \\"Betrayal ...\\" and the priests who offer their commentary are barely spared from coming off as a crisis of faith and, instead, must be read as a crisis of man and not the God of worship. In the end, the Catholics among us cannot help but feel betrayed by the men in whom we have entrusted our children. And by remembering the crisis is man-made, we don't have to lose our faith in the God of our worship. In the end, those of us who are Catholic may conclude that our church's heirarchy has to be dismantled, accountability institutionally implemented and the demons of our children prosecuted along with being treated.	2003-02-12
US	35524743	R1T9DY805CFGF9	0943595738	238265457	Daddy's Boys: Erotic Short Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Daddy was never like this!	Celebrated gay erotica author Kenneth Harrison has a hidden jewel in this compilation of shorts that, between the lines, share something of a common thread: to some extent, the \\"boys\\" are coming of age and, most of the time, with a \\"daddy,\\" or older (i.e., experienced) \\"teacher.\\" Some of the book's hottest entries that the reader will literally salute include \\"Randy's Pleasure,\\" \\"The New Boy in Town\\" and \\"Mr. Kempton and the Birthday Boy\\" (talk about blowing out the candles!).  Compared to some of Harrison's other works, \\"Daddy's Boys\\" may be the best in his body of work. Not only do the searingly hot words Harrison employs as a master wordsmith, he evokes some of the best provocative and sexual fantasies that, by each story's end, we a little ticked that our real daddies weren't like the ones in this book! The man-to-man sex is graphic, a HUGE turn-on and even throws in some romance that helps lift some of the stories to the level of mainstream fiction. Even for the discriminating reader who's not interested in romance and is looking solely for a quick turn-on and scorching material that oozes with lust and other stuff, this collection is a winner! Bet no one in real life had daddies like these!	2003-02-10
US	35524743	RN7P7LSQI6UZ6	1555836496	529590994	F.U.: Majoring in Carnal Knowledge	Books	4	17	18	N	N	What a curriculum!	Fabled gay porn author Mickey Skee (\\"Adult Video News,\\" \\"Manshots,\\" et al) takes us to school in this unique and imaginative fiction piece about a secondary education institution called the Fraternal University of Camaraderie and Kinship (guess what it's called for short?). Nowhere in any college ranking list that's been published are there courses in glory holing, advanced maturbation, crotch-shaving and final exams that literally demand rising to the occasion (then, even if you fail, who'd mind repeating some of these courses?). Skee writes himself as a main character who's an alumni of FU and returns to his alma mater as a masturbation professor. His narratives of classroom instruction, in addition to being scorchingly hot, are incredibly erotic, and the reader will be sorely tempted to pay whatever the tuition to get on the student rolls. The book's cover, steamy as it is, is but an appetizer of what lies within, and the demands of majoring in carnal knowledge are something adult fantasies are made of. Those of us who went to some of the country's more traditional universities can't help but feel a pang of regret and wouldn't mind trading the degree for the ones at FU. In sum, this offering doesn't give any pretenses to be anything but an erotic journey for the times guys turned on by it need for nothing more than a break from reality and a fantasy journey in carnal satisfaction. The one-on-one and group man sex is nothing less than wild and leads us to believe the PTA meetings are nothing like the ones most of us remember. Definitely not the stuff for kiddies. Only those who are up for the mid-terms and finals need apply.	2003-02-04
US	35524743	R715TKBHO4CWT	1892723115	873397594	Tough Guys	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Tough with eroticism and romance!	This book's cover doesn't cheat us with something that isn't delivered. \\"Tough Guys\\" gives us more than 300 pages of just about any brand and extremity of man-to-man sex as penned by some of the celebrated who's-who in gay erotica. If you're into both being dominated or consenting to submission, check out the piece about the submissive student tamed by a fraternity Adonis. If you're into mall cruising, there's a piece about some bored rich kids who find preoccupation in almost any nook and crannie in the mall. For passive aggressives, we have  an instruction on how to kindle jealousy to keep the man of our heart close to home. And, what's gay erotica without a prison scenario? Here, a prisoner is grilled (literally and otherwise) by the warden and Satan himself. Surprisingly, though, there are others here that manage to spark some romance that makes the tough stuff less tough and a little more gratifying. Two entries in particular, however, subtly evoke some not-so-nice-to-remember history, such as the tale of sadism involving German Nazis and some twink Russian dancers, and the one about a boy who goes sexually awry by the devastation of war and its influences. This compilation is probably more atuned to those whose tastes cater to basic, out-and-out, rough-and-tumble sex with whatever guy happens to be around. Anyone looking for a hefty shot of romance and tenderness will find some here but should probably look elsewhere for them in larger doses. Either way, on nights when nothing but the carnal urge for simple sex takes charge, this is a lusty hands-on companion (in more ways than one).	2003-02-04
US	35524743	R3JC3P9PHOTDWO	0916856011	367789867	Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions	Books	5	21	24	N	N	A lifelong lifeline to recovery	Who could have predicted that a couple of near-lost alcoholics in the 1930's would lay the spiritual foundation for recovery from the hell (no exaggeration) of alcoholism and, later, other mind-bending drugs? But Bill W. and Dr. Bob did and, some 70 years later, literally millions of sufferers worldwide have taken to \\"the program\\" heart and soul and have found the simple serenity of sobriety. Affectionately called The Big Book by \\"members\\" of the AA fellowship and those in other self-help programs inspired by the AA prototype, anything and everything that the addict who's become sick and tired of being sick and tired is here, and recovery is for the taking. With a spiritual (not religious) cornerstone as the foundation, we come to understand why we must put ourselves in the hands of the god of our understanding, why contact with Him daily is an essential lifeline and how we keep the privilege of sobriety by going into service for the addict who stills suffer. AA's 12 steps don't demand a recovery program as prescribed by someone else and recognizes that what works in recovery for one person may not work for another. Thus, the miracle! The diligent program of recovery - and it's wise to practice the 12 steps daily - is backed by the 12 \\"traditions\\" of the fellowship that explain why each of the 12 steps is mandatory for survival itself. In a press interview shortly before his death, Bill W. was asked how AA works. \\"Pretty good. Thanks for asking,\\" was his answer. And that's the miracle and grace of the program and its fellowship. The individual's recovery program is unique to him and of his own making. To those still suffering with active addiction, their families, children and others impacted by the addict's sickness, this book is the lifeline. Grab it!	2003-02-04
US	35524743	R1PN2MSJ36HTKW	0345394089	856488684	The Family Heart: A Memoir of When Our Son Came Out	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An experience of the heart	One of life's most painful (and unjustifiable) tragedies is a parent's total and absolute rejection of their gay or bisexual child solely on grounds of sexual orientation, and little of substantive value has been written on the psychological and social dynamics (many dysfunctional) that collide to rip a family soul to shreds. What literature does exist is usually in the form of some self-help advice that is admirable in intent but unlikely for practical application. \\"The Family Heart ...\\" is one of the few published works that doesn't go into scholarly psychoanalyzing about the implications when a gay child comes out to his parents. Instead, its author, Robb Forman Dew, shares with refreshing and candid honesty one family's reaction when its son came out. Its welcome candor rests in the dismantling the parental feeling that they \\"failed\\" their gay child, the fallacy of keeping the family \\"secret\\" and, all too frequently, the \\"why\\" for the total loss of parental love because of some prejudicial homophobia that also serves to send the gay child into self-exile, shame and self-loathing. Any family who has endured or is going through problems accepting their gay child can benefit from one family's actual experience and, as important, how it managed to embrace its child as a total product of more than his sexual orientation. In the end, \\"The Family Heart ...\\" empowers the parent of the gay child to say, \\"My child's gay. Big whoop!\\" With that conclusion, we finally get the idea that the \\"problem\\" with homosexuality isn't homosexuality: it's homophobia! And that, reader, is another form of prejudice and ignorance that serves only to inflict pain, degredation and isolation.	2003-02-04
US	35524743	R3337ONVPLK8JE	1555836569	646574590	After Words: Real Sex From Gay Men's Diaries	Books	4	3	5	N	N	More than erotica, a hint of romance and social politics	Presumably true accounts of gay encounters, \\"Afterwords ...\\" offers more than same-sex erotica and is a step or two above carnalism by describing encounters in which love (and not just lust) is a factor. Still other entries smack of socio-politicism and make subtle judgments on the \\"political correctness\\" of being a man wanting to make love with another man. Regardless of each story's base - lust, romanticism, politicism - \\"Afterwords ...\\" is nonetheless steamy and erotic ...Amazingly, while the entries serve to get the pulse rate going faster, they also impress a sense of beauty of love and make sublimial references to issues that engulf gay sexual issues. The read is well worth it, and \\"Afterwords ...\\" makes us believe we're actually reading someone's private diary.	2003-01-31
US	35524743	R2F6K7IZZQ6MI	1555837395	738504810	Cocksure: Erotic Fiction	Books	4	12	13	N	N	The title doesn't refer only to the book!	As one of the most prolific contributors to gay erotica, Bob Vickery also comes across as one of the most effective in stirring the sense of eroticism. After reading even one of the entries in this book, \\"Cocksure\\" will mean more than its title. Perhaps more than other books of this type, \\"Cocksure\\" offers something for just about any discriminating and unique taste, from erotic vampires who suck more than blood and genetically manufactured sex gods who are always up for any job. Refreshing that \\"Cocksure\\" doesn't pretend to offer anything nearing intellectual stimulation and is honest enough to seek only to stimulate something other than the intellect. The tantalizing narratives of man-to-man sex, admittedly lustful and carnal with no phony pretenses, do great to jump start the heart. But, if you're reading it alone, \\"Cocksure\\" might come in handy for some solo action.	2003-01-31
US	35524743	R13852S9C0LZ9D	188636009X	110804752	What the Bible Really Says about Homosexuality	Books	3	16	45	N	N	An intelligent study, but the purpose?	\\"What the Bible Really Says ...\\" takes on the volatile argument of religion and its presumed negative moral influence on sexual orientation and/or same-sex practices. Author Daniel Helminiak develops an intelligent and scholarly thesis that Scripture has few minor references that condemn homosexuality and, a step further, that anti-gay biblical passages are not blanket condemnations of gay people and acts. Through it all and in the end, Helminiak theorizes that the Bible doesn't even address (therefore, condemn) same-gender sex as it is understood in contemporary terms and that anyone seeking the definitive answer about homosexuality being acceptable or evil, will need to find the answer somewhere else. It might seem this book is a self-study for gays, lesbians and bisexuals still closeted and resisting their orientation because of the moral condemnations of whatever their religions, and how they can see the faulty of their religious-based rejections by self and others. Indeed, if the closeted person remains closeted because of his self-disdain based on religious beliefs, this book may be a positive step toward self-acceptance and understanding....	2003-01-31
US	35524743	R2M0U9P08C38II	1555837158	870164416	Friction 5: Best Gay Erotic Fiction	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The 5th of "Friction's" best	With the editing of seasoned gay erotica veterans Jesse Grant and Austin Foxxe, more than 40 ficticious accounts of gay sexual encouters keep this collection smoldering and has us asking for more. Backed by the Gay Community News, the \\"Friction\\" series is famous (or infamous, given whoever's view) for delivering the best and steamiest in accounts of man-to-man sex. Among the stories' contributors to the collection are celebrated gay writers Bob Vickery, Thom Wolf and Dale Chase. They, and other talented writers, leave absolutely nothing untouched or left to the imagination. It's all here: oral, intercourse, kissing, caressing, love, romance and some daring experimentation. The editors obviously devoted significant time collecting the best of the genre's writings for this edition: literally, with very rare exception, the reader will need to get up after just one installment to cool down. The first entry is among the best for its simplicity and candid acknowledgement of two mens' lust for each other. Definitely not bedtime stories for the kiddies, but very definitely the bedtime stuff of something other than sleep.	2003-01-31
US	35524743	R1323ZY8H59AAA	1555834752	574879411	Straight?: True Stories of Unlikely Sexual Encounters Between Men	Books	4	33	35	N	N	The mind games some guys play!	\\"Straight?\\" serves up some 50 true accounts of sexually straight-identified men who explore their \\"curiosity\\" about same-sex encounters and, in the process, challenges the validity of labels like \\"straight\\" and \\"gay.\\" In most of these true narratives, the common thread is less the sexual labels we and others apply to us individually and more man's basic need (carnal or otherwise) for the touch of someone of the same gender. As someone myself identified as \\"straight\\" with some sexual experiences with other \\"straight\\" men, the turn-on is less sexual and more the feeling of simply being wanted. The stories in this compilation do more than offer some sizzling hot descriptions of man-to-man sex. They also ask the fundamental question if labels (\\"straight,\\" \\"gay,\\" \\"bi\\") are even relevant, why it seems (on both a private and societal level) that anything related to homosexuality prompts serious questions of one's sexual preferences and why anything related to same-gender interaction has anything to do with sex at all. In the end, does it really matter? For anyone not interested in such a debate, however, and is looking for nothing more than steamy literature, this book has just about anything that caters to any taste.	2003-01-28
US	35524743	RPT3JK950LK5R	0943595851	917583612	Young, Hung & Ready for Action: Erotic Short Stories	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fact or fiction? Who cares?	Unlike other novellas, this one is fiction but, compared to other similar compilations, isn't so much different, thereby asking how fine the line between fact and fiction really is. Whatever, the book's name pretty much says it all, and the enclosed accounts of man-to-man sex are nothing but scorching! Rich in in graphic descriptions and a masterful form of foreplay before the actual getting-on, the stories are among the best of their kind, and virtually no one will be disappointed and not turned on (if anyone is, then they need to go to another website for pictures). Absolutely great fiction, and reading the stories over and over isn't a waste. Sometime words and the imagination they create are better than the real thing!	2003-01-28
US	35524743	R1D4JJPQF7VYGO	1560239883	601649507	A Night in the Barracks: Authentic Accounts of Sex in the Armed Forces	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Fact that's hotter than fiction	Anyone whose tastes are enticed by graphic descriptions of same-sex encounters will find this collection of accounts of what apparently goes in in some barracks when Big Brother isn't poking under the bedsheets a tremendous turn-on. Not only are the accounts, particularly those of man-to-man sex, so steamy that they sizzle, but the turn-on is all the more real because this isn't fiction. For whatever reason, however, this collection is distinguished from many other compilations of its kind in that this one includes not only the preference for man-to-man sexual contact but the sublimal message that everyone has the basic need to have some physical touch from someone, even if that someone is the same gender. Probably because these are true accounts, their authors disclose their need for human touch and, in doing so, evelate their experiences above the level of carnalism. At the same time, these stories provide a form of foreplay that is as much a turn-on as the actual sex. Read some of these stories and come to your own conclusion if Big Brother has any business delving into its military's human and sexual needs. Beyond that, the stories are simply so hot as to be searing!	2003-01-28
US	35524743	R1UASAB0L2Y0YD	0553268937	175069368	The Water Is Wide	Books	4	9	10	N	N	And the children shall teach us	Published in the 1970's, &quot;The Water Is Wide&quot; was the first of author Pat Conroy's novels to be adapted for the big screeen, that project being &quot;Conrack,&quot; starring Jon Voight. Conroy's uproaringly hilarious and, at the same time, heartbreakingly honest and moving story-telling should be read first to catch the spirit that the film doesn't totally harness. Conroy spent a year on the improverished, virtually isolated and forgotten Yamacraw Island off the South Carolina coast as teacher to an economically and socially devastated group of children, most African-Americans, that the outside world seems to have cast off and neglected until Conroy reaches shore. Little does he know on arrival just how desperate his pupils lack even the basics of life, and he gets a clue when his children, unable to pronounce their teacher's name, instead come up with &quot;Conrack.&quot; But through an ingenuity as an educator and an even greater gift to tap into the souls of his destitute pupils, Conrack manages to lift the veil of ignorance and instill in his wards a thirst for knowledge. In powerfully moving story-telling fashion that will invoke both laughter and tears, Conroy teaches us just how much one person can make a difference in a life of another who has been left behind. And at the same time, Conroy manages to instill in his readers a sense of compassion for the status quo that most of us are blessed enough not to endure. Well worth a read once and again, &quot;The Water Is Wide&quot; masterfully bridges the gap between classes and races and implores each of us to exericse our humanity for the good of the lesser of our children.	2003-01-24
US	35524743	RZYGKVL6KOHBN	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An American classic	As long as prejudice and injustice exist, the commentary in \\"To Kill A Mockingbird\\" will remain relevant and a tool by which we might be able to mend. Author Harper Lee, who earned a richly deserved Pulitzer Prize for literature, once said she never thought of her novel as nothing more than a love story of a widowed father for his two children. The novel is so much more. Intentionally or not, it is a searing indictment of the individual and institutional racism as seen through the eyes of southern lawyer Atticus Finch's daughter, Scout. Written in the innocent words of a child, we see unfolding a white woman's fabricated cry of rape against a black man and the cursory trial trial in which, considering it's the South and a black man is on trial for a crmie against a white victim, the proceedings are little less than perfunctory. As defense counsel, Scout's father endures the disdain of the white community in his lazy southern town. The fate of the defendant, predictable in the then-racist South, is no less heartbreaking and, at the same time, outrageous. Along with racism, the novel touches on people not fully understood, and the character of Boo Radley serves the point masterfully. An American classic in every sense of the word, \\"To Kill A Mockingbird\\" is a moving experience that, if we read closely enough, compels us to look beyond the prejudices and discrimination in our own hearts. It is a stunning masterpiece, and anyone who's felt a pang of discrimination ought to be required to read this one.	2003-01-09
US	35524743	R1FS6XWKLIIYOA	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Captoe and Murder in the Heartland	Far from \\"Breakfast at Tiffany's,\\" Truman Capote's riveting account of the 1959 slaughter of a family of four in Holcomb, Kan. (pop. 270) remains one of the essentials in true-crime publishing history. In masterful story-telling fashion, Capote's powerful writing puts us at the scene of the Clutter house that bloody weekend of Nov. 14, 1959, as Perry Smith and Richard Hickock go from attempted robbery to the merciless slaughter of four people. So compelling is Truman's style that, by the time Mrs. Clutter is the last to be killed, we have a sense of relief that, for her, the horror of knowing she will be the last to die is over. In the wake of the murders, Capote takes us on the trail of the killers from the nation's Bible Belt to Mexico and Las Vegas before, finally, back to the scene of the crime and the gratuitous trial. And at the gallows, where Smith and Hickock meet their final justice, Capote manages to put us there, so powerful the feeling of the pending executions. Capote interviewed both killers for his book and reportedly had a sexual relationship with one. Maybe myth, but Capote did say once he would never have written \\"In Cold Blood\\" had he known its emotional cost to him. Little wonder. In the end, we have four victims of a truly senseless slaughter and two killers who fashioned their own noose, all for a radio and 50 bucks. Still, Capote never topped himself with anything he wrote later.	2003-01-02
US	35524743	R1TYPGYXRX6ZY2	1891855107	108362580	Huge 2	Books	4	12	12	N	N	So hot it burns!	This compilation by editor John Patrick of man-to-man sex is so hot that it sizzles! Nearly 600 pages of explicit, no-holds-bar sexual escapades have just about anything to cater to any taste, and the reader certainly won't put the book down unsatisfied. The eroticism is graphically descriptive, and the limitlessness of the imagination can offer images that no video can. More than same-sex physical contact, though, some of the shorts describe the reassurance of a simple human touch, especially if any human touch has been a long time coming. The sex is non-stop and certainly erotic, but the subtle descriptions of man-to-man emotional contact lifts most stories above the level of carnal lust. \\"Bus Stop\\" and \\"Big and Beautiful\\" are two especially worthy entries. In sum, the stories contained in the book take the reader as far as the imagination wants to go, and the images evoked by the descriptive words of the steamy passages make the trip one of the most erotic ever.	2002-12-19
US	35524743	R1BW6BUTUUP1YU	1555834221	515844751	Reclaiming Your Life: The Gay Man's Guide to Love, Self-Acceptance and Trust	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An important contribution	Implied by its title to be for the gay male, this psychoanalytic self-study by author Rik Osemsee is an important contribution to anyone who grew up as a child in a environment where homosexuality was so villified that the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered adult child continues the private torment of self-loathing and rejection. For a scholarly work, \\"Reclaiming Your Life\\" is surprisingly non-clinical and easily understandable in guiding the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered person - and their families - to self-acceptance by identifying and explaining the dysfunctional dynamics that account for the shame and isolation that many still in the closet suffer. At the same time, we also come to understand the pain and self-rejection that homophobia breeds, intentionally or not. With that realization, we also come to an understanding that rejection of any person solely on the basis of sexual orientation cannot be justified, nor can it be tolerated. On a societal, \\"Reclaiming Your Life\\" describes the hate crimes of physical violence and institutional prejudice that evolve from societal discrimination. In the end, the important contribution of this book is that it validates the humanity of the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered person and challenges those who seek to demean that humanity to re-evaluate their own value systems. For the gay, et al, person who continues to suffer rejection, shame and isolation, it offers an important understanding of the origins of those dysfunctional dynamics, their baselessness and how to work toward self-acceptance. Achieving that, we have permission to let go of the self-loathing and loneliness inflicted by homophobia.	2002-12-18
US	35524743	RH6QCPLSU0O90	0943595568	393856442	Basic Training (True Homosexual Military Stories, Vol. 5)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	How mighty the pen!	This compilation of short stories are reportedly actual sexual accounts of military personnel with their same-sex colleagues, and \\"Basic Training\\" leaves nothing to the imagination and impresses on us the power of the written word. Laced with graphic sexual descriptions, some of the narratives relate less to homosexual encounters and more to the essential need of man to have some human touch, even if it's from another man, an essential that is more an emotional than sexual need. Depending on who you're reading this to as a nighttime story, it's a great collection of shorts that permits the privilege of using a boundless imagination. After reading many of the stories, don't be surprised at the need for someone's human touch.	2002-12-17
US	35524743	RGQP0K2ALBX21	0451166604	824428233	Small Sacrifices: A True Story of Passion and Murder	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Children of Sacrifice	\\"Small Sacrifices\\" is another of Ann Rule's true-crime accounts, and this one delves into the darkest alley of the mind and brings to the light of day the danger some children face at the hands of their own parents. This crime is one of them, and the small sacrifices are one mother's own children, each of them shot because their mother's boyfriend (who couldn't wait to unload her) didn't want to be a father. Diane Downs, the mother convicted for the murder of one and attempted killings of two of her children, represents the worst of all of us, a self-serving, ego-centered psychotic whose own wants supercede the basic needs of everyone else, including her own children. Beyond the chilling account of how three young souls were sacrificed, Rule takes us well into the legal complications of this horrendous case and gives us an education in the complexities of the legal machine, even in cases that seem airtight. This isn't an entertaining read and instead should be taken on as a character study and why the protectors of children have to include a collective society. Certainly, the sense of tragedy prevades the senselessness of Downs' crime throughout the book. Just as strong an emotion is the total disdain of the woman the reader will feel.	2002-11-27
US	35524743	R2Y7Y6ULVQCSI5	039308700X	741841636	Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders (25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Brilliant legal scholarship	Little wonder that \\"Helter Skelter\\" is the top-selling true-crime book in publishing history. Here, more than 30 years after the decade of free love was essentially drowned in a literal pool of blood, the sense of horror then is resurrected in stark reality. The author, who also prosecuted the case, gives us not only a graphic description of the overkill of the Manson Family's victims but also lays out the legal complexities that threatened a successful prosecution. Of the former, the sheer brutality of Manson's henchmen, namely \\"Tex\\" Watson and Susan Atkins, is simply numbing while, of the latter, the legal issues educate us that the case then wasn't as open-and-shut that we perhaps have come to assume. The reason for the slaughter of the Tate-LaBianca victims is detailed, but whether evil or insanity fueled that reason is best left to the reader. Whichever, Charles Manson, or as he empowered himself as \\"Man's Son\\" to his susceptible clan, emerges not only as a vicious murdered but a master manipulator of other people's human failings. That there will always likely be those who pervert those failings to their own ends makes this book an important study in both human behavior and legal scholarship. Beyond that, the unmitigated brutality, i.e. overkill, of Manson's victims is paralyzing.	2002-10-16
US	35524743	R2IZFFZYHTO5PY	0671894404	481207217	The Final Days	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Country Threatened	Those summer months of 1974 have been consigned to history, and it's doubtful that, even now, those of us who lived them appreciate how perilously close to the edge that the country tetered on absolute collapse. \\"The Final Days\\" gives us that appreciation and, in one key respect, the threat to the entire nation then compared to 9-11-01 was even worse: whereas 9-11 was an external threat, the Nixon administration was an internal danger that sought (intentionally or not) to circumvent every principle of democracy. With little editorializing about the legal process, Bernstein and Woodward serve up the facts coldly, and the reader slowly comes to understand what truly was at risk: an entire country's democractic system of government. In the process, we see a president desperate to preserve his own stature even if it meant sacrificing the nation. Along the way, we get a quick glance at the truly private Nixon (his wife hadn't slept with him for years, threatened divorce after the  disastrous 1962 California gubernatorial race and drank \\"heavily\\" in the months before the president's resignation). More pertinent is that \\"The Final Days\\" moves relentlessly through those months that the country tetered on the brink of civil implosion (even then, maybe not really knowing it) to the finality of one man's public disgrace. Read \\"All the President's Men\\" beforehand for background. Together, moreso \\"The Final Days,\\" they hit us where it most hurts: that one man alone threatend seriously to silence our democratic voice. But while it survived, our presumed trust of elected officials died and, as such, so did a part of whatever innocence we had as a collective citizenry.	2002-09-16
US	35524743	R3J7YYXB6WXP5Z	0451203267	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me (Revised and Updated): 20th Anniversary	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Bundy: Forever the Enigma?	The sheer number of Ted Bundy's known and suspected victims may well satisfy most people that his execution should be the end of his story, but it should not and \\"The Stranger Beside Me\\" does not answer what is begged: why? Did something in society create what truly was a monster or was Bundy truly a human form of pure evil? Ann Rule is not to be criticized for not answering in her book, a masterpiece in detailing the horrors that Bundy inflicted on his known victims and posing the frightening likelihood that others still buried endured his torture. Rule was, after all, blinded like everyone else by Bundy's purported grace and all those other attributes assigned to \\"decent\\" people. For anyone seeking the definitive answer, if they care, are likely to be disappointed that \\"The Stranger Beside Me\\" doesn't provide it. Illigitemacy? A love relationship gone bad? Can these two simple factors alone or together and which so many other people have undoubtedly experienced so fracture a human psyche that it abandons every shred of humanity? It's doubtful, leading us to conclude that some other horrific force was at work. Still, Ms. Rule's book is a great read for no other reason than to feel the numbing trauma of Bundy's catastrophic acts, even if they aren't satisfactorily explained.	2002-09-09
US	35524743	R1LVL632DA7ZEF	0684863553	221450502	All the President's Men (S&S Classic Editions)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Presidency Redefined	The detective sleuthing aside, \\"All the President's Men\\" is the definitive scholastic study of why the Watergate break-in spilled beyond its coverup to redefine the modern Presidency and why the Constitutional safeguards against a criminal Administration worked. This masterful work should be read twice: first, for its sheer detective intrigue and, second, for its immeasureable scholarship. More than giving us a front-row seat at a newsroom editorial desk, Woodward and Bernstein impress the mandate as private citizens to demand the due process of democracy.	2002-09-04
US	35524743	R1B7P8ND8BZC4Q	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Good Old-Fashioned Horror Story	Little surprise to find evil lurking in a town whose name sounds like a gravesite. Stephen King survives the test of time, the distinguishing mark of a true artist, in that \\"Salem's Lot\\" retains its bite from its first to susbsequent readings. It is unlikely that King set out to write a social commentary (though he's crafty enough to have done it sublimally). Rather, this classic tale of vampirism is a sheer delight if for no other reason than to get spooked. It's a great read on a cold, snowbound night with popcorn or flavored rice cakes within reach. On a steamy summer night, it forces the reader to close the windows and lock the doors. Whatever the season, though, \\"Salem's Lot\\" amplifies every otherwise unnoticed slight creak in the tree outside and the silenced whispers in a mild breeze. And, as King forces it in virtual every other writing, his reader at some point has to set the book down and come up for air - and a safety check.	2002-09-04
US	35524743	R3U204BOJ1XLN3	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Question of Faith	A second reading of \\"The Exorcist\\" nearly 25 years after a first reading packs an even more gut-wrenching wallop! The sheer terror of supernatural evil glutches its victimized reader by the throat the first time around but rips him apart the second time around. Slightly beneath its surface of absolute horror, \\"The Exorcist\\" is a supernatural detective thriller. At its heart, though, it is really a challenge of faith that brings the question outside the realm of the supernatural and lays it on the doorstep of the conscience. There, on the threshhold of our own existence, we are commanded to validate our own divinity and measure its strength against the challenge of evil. Whether intentionally or not, Blatty challenges his reader to stand against more than terror: he challenges us to stand against our own demons.	2002-09-04
