US	35537171	R2CYNYUS61ROLO	1558535527	570703259	Alex: The Life of a Child	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	Gut-wrenching	I am perhaps overly sensitive, but there were very few chapters in this book that I managed to read without breaking down and sobbing.  Being familiar with Deford's voice from his NPR commentaries makes it all the worse, because as I read it, I heard it narrated in his voice, which made it all the more personal.<br />I had some vague conception of cystic fibrosis before reading this, but no idea just how horrible it really is.  The book is written in a very conversational style.  Mr. Deford is to be commended for his openness about the full range of emotions he experienced throughout the nine years of his daughter's life.<br />The book is quite short, which turns out to be a mercy.  It is one of the best books I have read, but I can't imagine having to read it again.	2004-06-07
US	35537171	R2MAQ2KJMOKBYE	0800756991	404774362	One Size Doesn't Fit All: Bringing Out the Best in Any Size Church	Books	1	13	27	N	Y	Deceptively Titled	Based on the title and the blurb, I was expecting a book that would offer some suggestions for the best strategies to minister effectively in churches of different size.  Instead, this insipid waste of paper keeps circling back to one theme: Bigger Is Better.  According to McIntosh, you must add staff now, and start new ministries now, because you must grow toward becoming a large church.  Sure, some folks might not like it and they'll leave, but who needs them anyway - you're bringing in new folks!<br />All of McIntosh's suggestions are driven by pragmatism.  There is never any consideration of eccelesiology (the theology of what the Church is and should do).  He seems to view the pastor as a corporate CEO, whose job is to set the vision for the organisation and then convince his session/diaconate/vestry/trustees/whatever-they-use-in-your-denomination to go along with it.  McIntosh's pastor is certainly never a servant leader.<br />If you want a good book on organisational psychology, management philosophy, etc., this isn't it.  You'll find plenty of much better books in the business section with material that you can adapt to fit a church setting.  If you are looking for a thoughtful analysis of what the church should be in the world and how the distinctives of different size churches facilitate accomplishing Christ's mission for His Church, this book definitely isn't it.  I feel like sending the author a bill for the time I wasted reading it.	2004-05-04
US	35537171	R1Z0MIR6GGP5S5	1592990339	241596217	The Last Generation	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	It Doesn't Get Much More Depressing Than This	Post-apocalyptic novels are almost their own genre.  Almost all follow certain conventions already well established in the well known entries in the field like The Stand, The Postman, Lucifer's Hammer, and so on.  The Last Generation honours some of those basic conventions (for instance, a very large cast of characters who initially seem completely disconnected from each other, but who turn out to be bound together in some way) but departs from the pattern in some very innovative and interesting ways.<br />The most significant is that the disaster in question is a condition which suddenly arose that prevented any pregnancy from being carried to term.  So, rather than a story about civilization being almost instantaneously wiped out, we have the story  of a group of folks from the last generation that was born trying to find some meaning in life as the human race slowly grinds down to an inevitable end and culture unravels with no future upon which to pin its hopes.<br />The novel is gen-X literature through and through.  The chapters are mostly short, and consist of the sort of short declarative sentences and sentence fragments that typified Hemingway's writing.  Whether intentionally or not, the bleak gen-X view of the world is blatant, and the way in which the characters deal with the problem is mostly an expose of the banality of post-modern life.  References to current pop-culture, filtered through the viewpoint of the last generation are replete.  This works surprisingly well, but I think it will impair the ability of the novel to speak to future readers.<br />As someone else has pointed out, this book doesn't have the usual happy ending.  With few exceptions (I am Legend, Soylent Green), postapocalyptic fiction generally has a happy ending.  Postaer follows his premise through to its dismal end.<br />A minor gripe is that the editor failed to catch a number of minor factual errors in various descriptions and comparisons.<br />In the end, this tale is full of sound and fury, but signifies nothing.  Then again, I somehow think that was the point.  I can't imagine re-reading it, but it was worth the time and money first time around (I got it last night and finished it this morning).ound and fury, but signifies nothing.  Then again, I somehow think that was the point.  I can't imagine re-reading it, but it was worth the time and money first time around (I got it last night and finished it this morning).	2004-04-25
US	35537171	R26TPAE4TJGMF2	0268000735	16932281	Dedication And Leadership	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	You Will Need Multiple Copies of this Book	In the first three quarters of the twentieth century, communism moved from a minority political movement in a few European countries to become a major political force with over a third of the world's population under its sway and signficant intellectual influence even in the countries that remained most opposed to it.  Douglas Hyde was one of those who diligently to further its influence.  In 1948, he surprised his friends and enemies alike by resigning his position as editor of the London based communist paper the Daily Worker and converting to Roman Catholicism with his family.<br />This book grew out of a series of lectures he conducted that tried to explain the successes of Communism to a Christian audience and to answer the question &quot;Is there anything in Communist methods that can be adapted to serve nobler causes?&quot;.  The answer to that question is an emphatic yes.  Hyde strips away the preconceptions of how Communists recruited and motivated party workers and how they developed them into leaders capable of developing other communist workers.<br />The main theme of the book is contained in the title.  According to Hyde, dedication is a prerequisite for true leadership.  The communists had a well defined purpose that every communist could understand and believe in: the hope of a Communist world.  In pursuit of that goal, members were asked to make great sacrifices.  Rather than driving people away, this demand draws out the idealistic element in them and inspires the sort of dedication needed.<br />Hyde develops this theme in a number of ways.  He discusses how short term campaigns worked, how party education worked, how members were encouraged to excellence in other areas of their life in order to give the communist message credibility with non-Communists.<br />Looking at the state of communism today, one might question whether there is any value in this book after all.  Indeed, Hyde faced the same question himself in the late 80s and refused a reprint of the book because he thought that communist commitment was no longer what was described in the book.  In my opinion, the failure of communism was due to its successes proving its invalidity, not to the methods by which it had enjoyed those earlier successes.  Militant Islam seems to be the ascendant ideology of our times, and to the limited degree that I am aware, it seems like the Islamists are employing similar techniques.  If we are wise, we will choose to learn from them rather than dismissing them outright.<br />This is one of those rare books that demands the purchasing of multiple copies.  You will want to keep one for yourself with all your underlinings and notes, and keep at least one to lend out.  Any sort of organisation could benefit from the lessons to be learned here, but Hyde's message is chiefly to Christians.  Any believer distressed about the weak impact his church is having should immediately read this book.int of the book because he thought that communist commitment was no longer what was described in the book.  In my opinion, the failure of communism was due to its successes proving its invalidity, not to the methods by which it had enjoyed those earlier successes.  Militant Islam seems to be the ascendant ideology of our times, and to the limited degree that I am aware, it seems like the Islamists are employing similar techniques.  If we are wise, we will choose to learn from them rather than dismissing them outright.<br />This is one of those rare books that demands the purchasing of multiple copies.  You will want to keep one for yourself with all your underlinings and notes, and keep at least one to lend out.  Any sort of organisation could benefit from the lessons to be learned here, but Hyde's message is chiefly to Christians.  Any believer distressed about the weak impact his church is having should immediately read this book.	2003-11-15
US	35537171	R3LZ8PGMJ2P6P9	0875522386	943762386	Getting the Message: A Plan for Interpreting and Applying the Bible	Books	5	32	33	N	Y	A Solid Introduction to Bible Study	I have been on something of a quest to find the right book to use in an adult Sunday School class on biblical interpretation and application.  While this book still isn't quite perfect, it stands head and shoulders above the other dozen or so books I have read on the topic in the past year.  If I could assign it a more exact numerical rating, it would probably be about 4.7 out of 5.<br />The book is divided into 13 chapters, each ending with 2-4 exercises to allow the reader to practice the material covered in the chapter.  The book is organised around an acronym, CAPTOR, which stands for Context, Analysis, Problems, Themes, Obligations, and Reflection.  I'm not a big fan of mnemonic acronyms because I often remember the acronym and not what it is intended to stand for, and because adherence to an acronym sometimes necessitates choosing terms that don't exactly fit (for instance, Doriani admits that application would have been a better label than Obligations for that particular section of the book).  However, many people find them far more helpful than I do, so I won't deduct any points for that.<br />Context is explained as both the literary and historical context.  The book examines how one goes about understanding and applying each and directs readers to tools that might be helpful (e.g. bible dictionaries).<br />The section on analysis is divided into two chapters, one on analyzing narrative and the other on analyzing discourse (Doriani's catch all term for poetry, prophetic oracles, wisdom literature, the epistles of the new testament and so on).  Initially I suspected that his attempt to abstract all non-narrative into a general category would fail, but he handles it surprisingly well.  The few pages on understanding Hebrew poetry need to be greatly expanded.  The author does provide several footnote references to Kugel's book for those wishing further study of that topic.  One of the appendices also offers some genre specific advice for analysis.<br />One suspects that the chapter &quot;Solving Problems&quot; exists primarily to get a P into the acronym.  Some good advice is offered there, but realistically the step of solving problems, which the author defines as &quot;any term, concept, custom, or teaching that eludes our understanding&quot; fits either into the context phase or the analysis phase depending on what sort of problem it is.<br />The themes chapter is good, but in my opinion spends too much time on the idea of approaching the bible with a theme in mind, e.g. &quot;What does the bible say about marriage?&quot; and not enough time on how to recognise the themes that are inherent in the bible (covenantal documents, the prophets as prosecutors of covenantal disobedience, &amp;c.).  This defect is remedied somewhat in the final chapter where he discusses the redemptive-historical method in the context of reflection.<br />The section on obligations is the best in the book.  The author observes that too often, bible teachers leave their students with nothing but abstractions.  He discusses how to derive an application from narrative, how to apply the commands of Scripture that no longer have direct relevance (e.g. parapets around roof tops and goring oxen), and how to derive an application from a text that is strictly theological (e.g. large sections of Paul's epistles).<br />In the reflection section, he attempts to bring together the previous five steps and discuss the different ways one can faithfully present the same text.  That is, how does one distill one's insights about a text into a coherent message that best fits what one's listeners need to hear.  Two approaches he suggests are the redemptive historical method (that is, how does this text fit into God's overall plan of redemption) and what he calls the fallen condition focus (FCF) (how does this text address the problems that are inherent in living in a fallen world?)<br />The imperfections in this book are mostly due to omissions of things that I think are useful.  Doriani refers to many works in his endnotes that will fill in these gaps if the reader cares to pursue them.  Also, the book is aimed at teachers and preachers rather than individuals.  While that isn't a defect, it will mean that I have to do a bit of extra work to use it with a class of laymen.<br />The other problems are minor, and have more to do with the publisher than the author.  For some reason, P&amp;R chooses to use endnotes rather than footnotes - this is very disruptive when you wish to pursue one of the notes.  Also, P&amp;R never puts a bibliography in their books anymore - if you want to find the particulars on a book the author refers to, you have to dig through the endnotes to find the first reference to it.  Lastly, P&amp;R's bindings are not very good and tend to show wear very easily and very quickly.  This book deserves a hardcover edition.nk are useful.  Doriani refers to many works in his endnotes that will fill in these gaps if the reader cares to pursue them.  Also, the book is aimed at teachers and preachers rather than individuals.  While that isn't a defect, it will mean that I have to do a bit of extra work to use it with a class of laymen.<br />The other problems are minor, and have more to do with the publisher than the author.  For some reason, P&amp;R chooses to use endnotes rather than footnotes - this is very disruptive when you wish to pursue one of the notes.  Also, P&amp;R never puts a bibliography in their books anymore - if you want to find the particulars on a book the author refers to, you have to dig through the endnotes to find the first reference to it.  Lastly, P&amp;R's bindings are not very good and tend to show wear very easily and very quickly.  This book deserves a hardcover edition.	2003-11-13
US	35537171	R9UDGCGLG7IPS	0920668372	195719049	Love You Forever	Books	5	7	9	N	N	You'll Love it or Hate it - I Love it	We've had this book for a few years, but I hadn't ever read it with my daughter until last night.  It is a wonderful book.  It starts out with a mother and her new baby and she rocks him and sings him a little song about how he will be her baby as long as she lives.<br />Through the succeeding pages, the baby grows into a toddler, a young boy, a teenager and a man.  In every stage of his life, his mother sneaks into his room sometimes, crawls across the floor, picks him up, rocks him, and sings the song.  This is the part that some people find creepy (my wife included).  I think the problem is that some people just don't care to suspend disbelief and expect every book to be very literal.  Yes, a little old lady breaking and entering to rock her grown son is a little odd to us as adults, but if you approach the book as a young child, it might seem perfectly normal.  In any case, it serves as an effective symbol to show that the mother's love endures throughout their lives.<br />Of course, since the son is growing up, so is the mother, and you can imagine where this is leading.  When the mother gets too old to sing the song anymore, I broke down in tears right there reading to my almost four year old daughter.  We had a pretty good conversation as a result.<br />So, now you are forewarned.  I think whether you like this book or not is going to be very dependent on what sort of person you are and what sort of person your kids are.	2003-11-06
US	35537171	R39B7P50EL1O5K	0671212095	711118249	How to Read a Book: The Classic Guide to Intelligent Reading (A Touchstone book)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Learn How to Learn	In this very useful book, Adler and Van Doren admirably succeed in showing the reader how to become a more able reader.  For anyone, student, businessman, or otherwise whose success is dependent upon being able to quickly and thoroughly understand written material, this book will rapidly repay the purchase price and the time invested in reading it.<br />The authors identify four levels of reading: 1)elementary reading - the ability to pick up a page of printed material and understand the words on it and their grammatical relation to each other; 2)Inspectional reading - the sort of reading one does in the library or bookstore to determine whether a book is worthy of the time to read it thoroughly; 3 - Analytical reading - the most thorough level of reading one can engage in with a single work.  It is the level at which one converses with the book in a sense; 4)Syntopical reading - Reading many books about a single subject with the goal of gaining a comprehensive knowledge of it.  The authors make the point that all books aren't worthy of the same level of reading.  The authors don't have a problem with casually reading a novel for enjoyment, but that isn't the sort of reading this book describes.  This book is a guide to the process of reading to learn and grow.<br />The elementary level is only briefly described.  After all, in order to make any use of this book, it is necessary that one first have the skills to read it.  The chapter on inspectional reading may prove to be the most useful to many readers.  Many students do not seem to have much skill in finding appropriate books for research, or they waste a lot of time on a book only to find out that it really is not helpful for their purposes.  Many practical suggestions are offered to remedy this problem.  The value of inspectional reading goes beyond this, however.  Adler correctly notes that the teaching of literature in high school is particularly prone to destroying any comprehension or delight in the works studied by attempting to move to an analytic approach to the work without first getting the big picture to provide context.<br />The bulk of the work is devoted to analytic reading.  They divide this type of reading into three stages and offer four or so rules for each stage.  In going through this process, the student should become thoroughly acquainted with what the book is about (what type of book it is, what problems it is trying to solve, etc.), understand what the propositions are that the author offers to solve his problem and how those are supported, and finally, be able to offer an informed critique of whether the author failed or succeeded in his attempt.<br />Having described how analytical reading works in relation to expository works, the authors then devote 100 pages to explaining how the rules must be expanded or modified when dealing with specific types of literature such as history, fiction, or philosophy.<br />Syntopical reading is covered in only one chapter.  It is essentially an analytical reading of works or portions of works that pertain to a matter of interest.  The rules and guidelines offered in that section are those that relate specifically to finding the right works, and then understanding when they are addressing the same matter (a subject sometimes made difficult by differences in terminology).<br />The book is well organised and very easy to read.  Anyone already capable of reading at the elementary level should be able to begin making use of the material in each chapter as soon as they have read it.  This book would be an excellent gift for anyone graduating high school and preparing to go on to college.tudied by attempting to move to an analytic approach to the work without first getting the big picture to provide context.<br />The bulk of the work is devoted to analytic reading.  They divide this type of reading into three stages and offer four or so rules for each stage.  In going through this process, the student should become thoroughly acquainted with what the book is about (what type of book it is, what problems it is trying to solve, etc.), understand what the propositions are that the author offers to solve his problem and how those are supported, and finally, be able to offer an informed critique of whether the author failed or succeeded in his attempt.<br />Having described how analytical reading works in relation to expository works, the authors then devote 100 pages to explaining how the rules must be expanded or modified when dealing with specific types of literature such as history, fiction, or philosophy.<br />Syntopical reading is covered in only one chapter.  It is essentially an analytical reading of works or portions of works that pertain to a matter of interest.  The rules and guidelines offered in that section are those that relate specifically to finding the right works, and then understanding when they are addressing the same matter (a subject sometimes made difficult by differences in terminology).<br />The book is well organised and very easy to read.  Anyone already capable of reading at the elementary level should be able to begin making use of the material in each chapter as soon as they have read it.  This book would be an excellent gift for anyone graduating high school and preparing to go on to college.	2003-11-04
US	35537171	R20QX876104E4O	1885767749	958381599	The Shape of Sola Scriptura	Books	5	28	33	N	Y	A Must Read for Protestants	I am not in a position to speak to how well this book functions as an entry in the debate between Protestants and Roman Catholics over the nature and authority of tradition, as I haven't kept up with either side of the argument much in the last few years.  In any case, judging from his stated intent in the introduction, Mathison is not seeking to directly engage parties on the other side - rather his goal is to inform Protestants about the debate and to clear away their misunderstandings about what sola scriptura actually is.<br />In the process of doing this, he necessarily engages the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox views, especially as offered by Sungenis and Schmemann.  Mathison recognises that the word &quot;tradition&quot; is being used equivocally, and appeals to Obermann's distinction between two views of tradition to offer a better way forward.<br />Tradition I, which he asserts is the position of the fathers and the early Reformation, holds that there is an authoritative tradition, sometimes called the Rule of Faith, about what scripture teaches and how it is to be interpreted.  Tradition II, which he says is the teaching of Tridentine Catholicism holds that tradition is instead parallel to scripture and has its own content regarding doctrine and practice.  Mathison expands on this by identifying a Tradition-0, or solo scriptura, view, which is that taught by the radical reformers, and which has become the dominant view in American evangelicalism.  In this view, the authority of the church is denigrated, and each person interprets scripture autonomously.<br />Having identified this view, he then demonstrates that many criticisms from Roman Catholic apologists are directed at it, rather than the traditional Protestant view.  To that extent, he agrees that many of the criticisms are perfectly valid.<br />The first section of the book provides the historical context of the development of the two views of tradition beginning with the patristic period and carrying through the Reformation and Counter-reformation.  The second part examines the scriptural teaching on tradition, scripture, and the church.<br />The third part offers a critique of the RC and EO positions, a critique of the solo scriptura view, and a positive statement of the sola scriptura view.  The fourth section attempts to answer anticipated objections.<br />Like Mathison's other books, it is well written.  Despite being reasonably comprehensive, it is an easy read that can be digested in just a few short sessions of quiet reading time.  It is well footnoted and includes a substantial bibliography should the reader wish to further pursue the topic by reading those opposed to him, historical background, or what not.  While the book might perhaps have some value in the debate, I am positive that it will be extremely challenging and stimulating to Protestants coming from a Tradition-0 background.arrying through the Reformation and Counter-reformation.  The second part examines the scriptural teaching on tradition, scripture, and the church.<br />The third part offers a critique of the RC and EO positions, a critique of the solo scriptura view, and a positive statement of the sola scriptura view.  The fourth section attempts to answer anticipated objections.<br />Like Mathison's other books, it is well written.  Despite being reasonably comprehensive, it is an easy read that can be digested in just a few short sessions of quiet reading time.  It is well footnoted and includes a substantial bibliography should the reader wish to further pursue the topic by reading those opposed to him, historical background, or what not.  While the book might perhaps have some value in the debate, I am positive that it will be extremely challenging and stimulating to Protestants coming from a Tradition-0 background.	2003-10-30
US	35537171	R1QIAY3T65LF87	0465016103	475257494	The Other Path: The Economic Answer to Terrorism	Books	4	26	29	N	Y	A Devastating Critique of Centrally Planned Economies	The original version of this book was written in the mid-80's to offer the people and government of Peru specific suggestions to combat Sendero Luminoso by making it possible for ordinary people to have a productive and meaningful participation in the nation's economy.  This new printing includes a preface written in 2002 that provides the context and history for non-Peruvian readers and gives some analysis of the successes of the suggested reforms under the Fujimori government.<br />The first part of the book is a detailed analysis of three sectors of the Peruvian economy: housing, transport, and trade (small manufacturing and retail primarily).  In each of these, De Soto demonstrates how the barriers raised by regulation and legal process from both right and left wing governments in Peru have forced the majority of persons participating to do so in informal/illegal ways.  The result is that formal activity bears the brunt of taxation and informals have little protection in terms of property rights, contractual instruments, and so on.  The net result is that everyone is impoverished.  This section of the book can be tough reading because of the amount of detail, but its necessary in order to understand the importance of the second half.<br />The second half suggests that the Peruvian situation is really the reemergence of mercantilism, not a market economy.  De Soto then provides some suggestions to peacefully transitiont to a market economy, and convincing warnings that failure to do so will almost certainly result in a violent transition.<br />The points that De Soto makes are increasingly significant to non-Peruvians as societies like America have increasingly centralised economies.  Ironically, the cover includes blurbs from both Presidents Bush and Clinton.  One suspects that netiher of them actually read the book.	2003-09-30
US	35537171	R2JHI9HVNWT0HF	0765307154	81417598	The Last Jihad (Political Thrillers Series #1)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Had potential to be a 5 star suspense novel	This novel begins and ends with an attempt on the president's life.  Between those events lies the harrowing tale of the attempt to determine which of the president's closest associates is the traitor providing the terrorists with information on his location and the attempt to keep an escalating situation in the Middle East from spiraling out of control and turning into a world war.<br />The majority of the book is told from the perspective of Bennett, the president's protege who has been left in command of the business that the president had to leave when he began his campaign for governor of Colorado.  He is the only character whose psychology we get to examine intimately.  Despite his flaws, he is likeable and one really hopes that things will work out for the best for him.  As tensions escalate, the president asks him to leave his commercial work and come on as a White House advisor, specifically, to take the business deal he closes in the early pages of the book and attempt to turn it into the centrepiece of a new Middle East piece plan.<br />The book is very well paced, and although it deals more with the politicians and secret service agents (rather than the more direct military/intelligence characters of a Clancy or Robinson novel) it remains a page turner.<br />So, why only 3 stars?  The first reason is the abruptness of the ending.  There is absolutely no denouement at all.  The last chapter reads as if there must be two more following it which mysteriously vanished.  One supposes that Rosenberg has a sequel in the wings.<br />Secondly, keeping in mind the author and the time it was written, this book comes across as something of a propaganda piece.  Rosenberg was one of the editors of World Magazine, before he resigned to promote his book.  World was adamant in making the case for a war with Iraq, and many of the presuppositions of this book are drawn from those arguments (the presence of weapons of mass destruction and a link with al-qaeda).  The timing of the book cannot have been coincidental, and I resent it when I find an author trying to influence my political opinions so overtly (whether I agree or disagree with them).of the book cannot have been coincidental, and I resent it when I find an author trying to influence my political opinions so overtly (whether I agree or disagree with them).	2003-09-08
US	35537171	R71067WA2YX7C	0966731107	156894786	Uniting Church and Home, A Blueprint for Rebuilding Church Community	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	A Clear Call for Reformation	This book is an appeal to consider whether the modern church's age segregated model for doing ministry is effective or biblical and to turn to an age integrated model that stresses discipleship of whole households together.<br />Wallace begins by offering anecdotes to demonstrate that the current model is badly broken.  Normally anecdotal arguments are not very effective, but the anecdotes he offers are so paradigmatic of American church life that most readers will recognise and identify strongly with them.  He then suggests a return to the historical (pre-19th century) alternative - children should be discipled by their fathers with their mothers assisting.  Contra conventional wisdom, Wallace suggests that quantity time is just as important as quality time.  Teachable moments can occur any time, and it makes sense to provide the opportunity for them to occur.  He also suggests that integrated families participating in ministry together are a powerfully attractive in outreach.<br />Two problems have to be overcome to move in this direction: a lack of parental confidence and ability to disciple, and the lack of opportunity due to crowded schedules (including crowded church activity schedules).  Wallace suggests (in broad strokes) measures to overcome both of those.<br />Finally, he gives a chapter discussing the proper way to move your church in this direction.  He describes how a layman should appeal to the church leadership and vice versa how the leadership should appeal to the laity in order to minimise the friction inherent in change.<br />My only frustration is that the book is short on specifics about how to accomplish this change.  This is due, in part, to Wallace's recognition that there are many different ways to go about transforming ministry.  It would have been nice three or four complete case studies describing different types of churches that have successfully moved to an age integrated model.	2003-08-02
US	35537171	R14IHW8LHQRC2O	0380733358	153919204	Eye of the Needle	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	It's a typical Ken Follett novel	Ken Follett's novels are particularly well suited to reading on trains and aeroplanes.  They are short, easy reads which easily survive the interruptions inherent in those surroundings.<br />This novel fits the mold perfectly - the characters are more or less drawn from the stock characters of action/adventure/intrigue stories - the icy cold and thoroughly competent enemy spy, the intellectual, professorial good guy who somehow manages to stay one step behind the spy throughout the story, and the beautiful and thoroughly unqualified female who implausibly saves the day at the last minute.<br />The general plot is that a German spy has discovered the disinformation campaign that the Allies are using to divert attention from the preparation for D-Day.  There is a race to capture or kill him before he can communicate the information to his masters in Berlin.<br />The book is the literary equivalent of a candy bar.  It's not intellectually nourishing or nutritious, but it's a great way to kill some time.	2003-07-28
US	35537171	R1AT70Z5F8FTPA	1565631366	330809260	The Temple: Its Ministry and Services	Books	5	45	46	N	Y	A Valuable Guide for New Testament Study	In this book, Edersheim does a brilliant job of organising the various details of first century worship in the Jewish temple, making it accessible to the modern reader.  The first few chapters describe the physical setting and furnishing of Jerusalem and the temple.<br />After providing that, Edersheim systematically explains the various categories of offerings (burnt offerings, sin offerings, peace offerings, &c.) and the Jewish festival cycle.  He relies both on the commandments  as given in the torah, and the subsequent traditions which grew up in post-exilic Jewish worship to explain things as they were when the New Testament was written.  When appropriate, some space is devoted to differences of opinion amongst the various rabbinical schools.<br />Numerous footnotes referencing scripture and various tracts in the Mishnah are provided, but so many as to be distracting.<br />The only real criticism I have of the book is that it is over 100 years old.  One suspects that research within the last century might expand or clarify sections.  Also, monetary equivalents are given relative to British Pounds Sterling of the 19th century; not particularly helpful.<br />I would also offer a caveat.  I bought mine used, and did not get the edition with the pictures and illustrations - so be careful to make sure you get the edition you intend.<br />All things considered, it's a must-have book for anyone who wants to understand the numerous temple references in the New Testament.	2003-07-13
US	35537171	R3FFJWQRF7KIT7	1885767692	340338818	A House for My Name: A Survey of the Old Testament	Books	5	45	45	N	Y	The OT Survey I've Been Waiting For	Most Old Testament survey books quickly get bogged down in details about dating, theories of composition, and the like.  As such, the end up being pretty useless to the person who simply wants to better understand what is actually *in* the Old Testament.<br />Thankfully, Leithart avoids this.  There is not a word about composition or dating of the documents themselves.  Instead, he focuses on the themes of the Old Testament, beginning in Genesis, and shows how these themes are reiterated throughout the Old Testament in preparation for the work of Christ and revelation of the New Testament.<br />The book is intended to be used for family devotions or study classes.  To facilitate this each chapter is divided into a few (generally 3-5) sections with associated scripture readings, review questions, and questions intended to stimulate further thought.  There are 8 chapters in all, focusing primarily on the narrative portions of the Old Testament.  The prophets are discussed where appropriate, but primarily in relation to the coincident narrative sections.<br />My only complaint is that the psalms and wisdom literature are mostly omitted.  This is understandable given that Leithart's focus is the Old Testament as a single story of redemptive history.  Perhaps someday Dr. Leithart will be persuaded to produce a companion volume.<br />If you have difficult understanding how all those stories (and even those pesky genealogies) that you vaguely remember from Sunday School fit together into a coherent whole, this book is a must read.	2003-06-24
US	35537171	R1OGWI9J7E7ZDD	080102210X	667301125	Golden Mouth: The Story of John ChrysostomÃAscetic, Preacher, Bishop	Books	3	20	21	N	Y	A good book that occasionally gets bogged down	This book is a very serviceable biography of John Chrysostom, the most famous preacher of the ancient church.  It chronicles the entirety of John's life, from the monasticism of his youth, to his subsequent tenure as a priest in Antioch, his bishopric in the imperial capitol, and the quarrels with the bishop of Alexandria and the empress that eventually brought about his downfall.<br />Kelly does an excellent job of showing John's character.  We get to see that those things which in some ways were the best of John's traits, his forthrightness and lack of fear, were the very things which due to his intemperate nature led him into conflict with those who were easily made jealous and those who did not care for their misdeeds to be honestly spoken of.<br />There is, however, one serious flaw in this book.  Kelly seems undecided about who his audience is.  He alternates between gripping narration and lengthy passages (sometimes several pages in length) wherein he dissects the arguments for and against the authenticity of a particular sermon of John's or the dating of one of his writings.  In my opinion, the book would have been strengthened had Kelly simply based the main text on what he believes to be correct, and moved the disputation either to end notes or to an appendix.	2003-06-17
US	35537171	R3DBONI3LKTJ5F	0878579915	658387153	The Rodale Book of Composting: Easy Methods for Every Gardener	Books	5	110	110	N	Y	Worth its weight in manure :-)	Although the bulk of the material contained in this book could be found online, it's still a worthwhile purchase.  Indeed, it is a must have.  The purchase price of the book will be quickly regained in the money you will save making your own compost rather than purchasing bagged compost or synthetic fertiliser.<br />A few of the chapters are more interesting than useful to the home gardener.  For instance, one of the early chapters discusses the history of composting beginning with the ancient Akkadians.  The final chapter discusses managing large scale compost operations (by large scale, I mean tens and hundreds of tons of waste) on the farm or as part of a municipal waste management strategy.<br />The core of the book, however, is very directly useful.  A chapter is provided describing the chemistry of what goes on in composting, and what goes on as plants attempt to take nutrients from the soil.  Another chapter describes the various types of life from microbes to insects and worms (including lovely line drawings) that inhabit a compost pile during the various phases of its lifecycle.<br />By far the most useful chapter is chapter 6, which provides a list of potential ingredients for your pile and suggestions on how to obtain them.  Numerous charts are provided that indicate on balance whether an item should be considered a &quot;green&quot; or a &quot;brown&quot;, and (should you desire more specifics) the actual NPK content of various ingredients.  This is fully a fifth of the book.<br />The next most useful chapter is chapter 10, which gives suggestions for various sorts of compost bins you can buy or build.  Another chapter describes tools like chippers and shredders that might be useful to you if you plan to make a fair amount of compost.  Alternatives are suggested for the folks who don't need quite that much labour saving help.<br />I can't think of anything that is not in this book that I wish it had.  Nor for that matter, can I think of anything that needs to be cut from it.  It strikes the perfect balance between comprehensiveness and brevity.ds to be cut from it.  It strikes the perfect balance between comprehensiveness and brevity.	2003-06-06
US	35537171	ROZZZYKSELCG1	0152010661	491294998	Time for Bed	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Beautiful illustrations, average text	The text is the typical rhyming couplet poetry that fills so many board books for the 1-3 crowd.  It's not drivel, but it isn't especially enjoyable either.  It's also a bit disappointing when one reads some of Fox's other books, like Harriet, You'll Drive Me Wild (written for a slightly older audience) and realises how capable she is.<br />The illustrations, however, are phenomenal.  There are beautiful, detailed images of various parent/child pairs.  Fish and bees aren't known for being loving, involved parents, but most 2 and 3 year olds won't catch on to that.  The still closed eyes of the baby squirrel and the downy feathers of the baby goose are very true to life.<br />In terms of quality, it's a very well put together board book that should survive many readings and a fair bit of chewing and tossing.	2003-06-05
US	35537171	R23UB2CKJX79P1	0310384915	186621545	How to Read the Bible for All Its Worth	Books	3	97	122	N	Y	Best of an underwhelming lot	I've been looking for a book to use in an adult sunday school class on biblical interpretation and have read half a dozen books on the subject within the past six months, all targeting the layman.  This is the best of the lot so far, but that is faint praise.<br />Fee and Stuart focus on the different types of literature that make up the canon and the different ways in which they must be approached.  Many of their insights are very helpful and useful.  Generally, the chapters written by Stuart (those dealing with the Old Testament) are markedly superior in quality to those written by Fee.<br />Some significant things are missing entirely.  The first is any discussion of basic exegetical skills apart from application to a specific type of literature.  Fee directs the reader to Sproul's Knowing Scripture and a few other books for this sort of thing.  Also, any discussion of a redemptive historical approach to interpretation is missing.  This is a crucial omission in that later books of the Bible develop themes and reuse imagery introduced in earlier books.<br />A chapter on selecting a translation is provided.  Sadly, Fee is very committed to the dynamic equivalence method of translation.  A student following his advice will to a large degree be held hostage to the prejudices of interpreters masquerading as translators.<br />Some specific comments on the books treatment of the various types of literature:<br />1. Epistles<br />Fee wisely emphasises the occasional nature of the epistles, and that the text cannot mean something that it did not mean to its original recipients.  However, he makes much of cultural relativity (e.g. arguing that 2 Tim 2:11-12 are culturally relative, ignoring the context of verses 13-15).  Fee is also a committed non-cessationist and rides this hobby horse till it falls over and dies.  Almost every example of alleged poor exegesis is tied to cessationism.<br />2.Gospels<br />Fee offers some good advice on reading each Gospel both in the context of the parallels in the other gospels and conversely in light of its own particular audience and themes.  His treatment of the Sermon on the Mount is exceptionally poor, however.  On page 130, he implicitly says that the Old Testament law was capable of justifying.  One hopes that this is due to sloppy phrasing.<br />His treatment of the parables is fairly conventional in that it treats the parables as a unified genre, which to my mind they are not.  The parables in many cases are just as occasional as the epistles.  The rules for interpreting them are not completely uniform (for instance, the parable of the sower comes very close to allegory, while the parables describing the Father's joy over repentant sinners in Luke 15 much more closely follow the pattern of communicating one central thought.  The interpretive approach is often indicated by the question or situation that occasions the parable, and this goes overlooked.<br />3.Law<br />Stuart's treatment of the law in terms of exegesis is pretty good.  He gives the student a good guide to understanding the difference between apodictic law and case law and to understanding the law in the context of the antithesis between the Israelites and the people they were to displace.  He does not do so well in giving guidelines to the modern believer to apply the Law.  He says for instance (p. 163) - \\"don't see the Old Testament law as binding on Christians in the New Covenant except where specifically renewed\\".  As North has pointed out, this is not a sound guide, because there is no New Testament renewal of the prohibition on bestiality, for instance.<br />Stuart also omits any discussion of the division of the law into moral, civil, and ceremonial law.  The above problem is perhaps an outgrowth of that.<br />4.  The Prophets<br />This section is pretty good.  Stuart points out that the prophets must be read as the enforcers (prosecutors would have been a more accurate analogy) of the covenant.  This section would havebeen especially helped by a discussion of the redemptive-historical aspect of biblical prophecy.<br />5.  The Psalms<br />This is the best chapter in the book.  Stuart gives very solid advice for understanding Hebrew poetry.  A couple of pages are devoted to the imprecatory psalms (e.g. Ps 137)<br />6.  Wisdom literature<br />Stuart very astutely observes that the wisdom corpus of the Bible includes James, but then he ignores it.  His treatment of Ecclesiastes is appalling.  He suggests that the purpose of Ecclesiastes is to *contradict* the rest of the Bible, and that only two verses properly coincide with the biblical message (pg 214).  This is tantamount to a denial of the infallibility of a portion of scripture.  One hopes that Dr. Stuart will do a little hard work on this before the next edition.<br /><br />7.  Revelation<br />This chapter is worth skipping.  Fee gives some good advice in the 5 principles he outlines, but his examples turn out to mostly be examples of how not to apply those principles.<br />I would recommend this book cautiously to individual readers, but I won't be using it for my class.been especially helped by a discussion of the redemptive-historical aspect of biblical prophecy.<br />5.  The Psalms<br />This is the best chapter in the book.  Stuart gives very solid advice for understanding Hebrew poetry.  A couple of pages are devoted to the imprecatory psalms (e.g. Ps 137)<br />6.  Wisdom literature<br />Stuart very astutely observes that the wisdom corpus of the Bible includes James, but then he ignores it.  His treatment of Ecclesiastes is appalling.  He suggests that the purpose of Ecclesiastes is to *contradict* the rest of the Bible, and that only two verses properly coincide with the biblical message (pg 214).  This is tantamount to a denial of the infallibility of a portion of scripture.  One hopes that Dr. Stuart will do a little hard work on this before the next edition.<br /><br />7.  Revelation<br />This chapter is worth skipping.  Fee gives some good advice in the 5 principles he outlines, but his examples turn out to mostly be examples of how not to apply those principles.<br />I would recommend this book cautiously to individual readers, but I won't be using it for my class.	2003-06-05
US	35537171	R3LACOW33GKC5S	1564029654	411629047	Owl Babies	Books	5	55	55	N	N	A very fun book to read with one's children	I bought this book over two years ago, when my daughter was around 14 months and was just starting to visibly enjoy being read to.  Two years later she still pulls it off the shelf sometimes and asks me to read it (usually around bedtime).<br />The plot is appropriately simple:  Mama Owl goes out hunting for the night, and the three owl babies get progressively more worried and scared.  When they have almost sunk into despair, mom comes home.<br />The illustrations are beautiful.  Benson does an excellent job of evoking the fear of the wee owlets as they wait, and their exuberant joy upon mama's return.  They are a perfect companion to Waddell's writing.<br />Waddell makes good use of parallelism.  After a couple of readings, if you're child is verbal, expect her to be wailing \\"I want my mommy!\\" right along with you and baby Bill.  Also, despite the brevity and simple vocabulary, one gets a real sense of the different personalities of the owl babies.  As children's literature goes, this is a masterpiece.<br />Concurring with several other reviewers, I would agree that this is a great book to share with your kids if any of them suffer from separation anxiety.	2003-05-30
US	35537171	R1VD6G8VKSSSPT	1889032158	387446668	Biblical Sonship: An Evaluation of the Sonship Discipleship Course	Books	3	24	27	N	Y	raises concerns but does not treat them thoroughly	I have been peripherally aware of the Sonship movement for over a decade, through the writings of Jack Miller, and through personal contact with several missionaries and staff members of World Harvest Mission (including the current executive director).  Although I am very grateful for them, for their work, and for the increased attention on the doctrine of adoption that Sonship has engendered, I have sometimes had the sort of vague uneasiness about Sonship as a movement that Adams said he initially experienced and by which he was ultimately compelled to write this book.<br />The book first examines the personal background of the Millers (Jack Miller and Adams were on staff at WTS at the same time).  Adams says he does so reluctantly and only because of the Sonship materials' dependence on personal anecdotes by the Millers.<br />The real meat of his argument is that the language of the Sonship materials is vague, that it uses Scripture to backup preconceived notions based on the Millers' experience rather than treating scripture exegetically, that it appropriates the methods of modern psychology, and that the theology of justification, sanctification, and adoption presented in the Sonship material is errant.  Footnoted examples of each are provided, along with a brief analysis of how the error is lived out by movement participants.  Adams has a tendency to overstate his case about the language used in Sonship.  It is difficult to square his preference for precise technical language with the use of language in scripture itself.  Similarly, one wonders if his concerns about Miller's doctrine is not at least to some extent the result of Miller using the terms in a less than strictly technical sense.<br />The greatest flaw in the book is that Adams does not make a positive statement of the doctrines about which he claims the Millers are in error.  Adams says only that he holds to the historic Reformed position, but most Sonship advocates would make the same claim.  The target of the book seems to be pastors and teachers rather than individual Christians curious about Sonship.<br />Additionally, I have concerns about the applicability of the book.  Since its publication, the WTJ has published a briefer critique.  I have not seen any responses from Sonship or WHM, but the materials have been revised in 2002.  All in all, I found my concern increased, but my questions unanswered.  I believe that it will still be necessary for me to attend a Sonship course to have an informed opinion.arget of the book seems to be pastors and teachers rather than individual Christians curious about Sonship.<br />Additionally, I have concerns about the applicability of the book.  Since its publication, the WTJ has published a briefer critique.  I have not seen any responses from Sonship or WHM, but the materials have been revised in 2002.  All in all, I found my concern increased, but my questions unanswered.  I believe that it will still be necessary for me to attend a Sonship course to have an informed opinion.	2003-05-27
US	35537171	R3SGMGRRWN87MQ	0875522165	597727505	Back to Basics: Rediscovering the Richness of the Reformed Faith	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Best Intro to the Reformed Distinctives that I Have Found	I've read several of the books that are often suggested as introductions to Reformed thought.  This is the first one that doesn't focus on Calvinistic soteriology to the exclusion of other equally (or perhaps more) important aspects of the Reformed view of what Scripture teaches.  My only real quibble is that the title ought to be Back to Intermediates, because there are more foundational doctrines than these - but all Protestants agree about those.<br />The book is divided into four sections, each written by a different author:<br />Doug Wilson contributes the chapters on salvation.  He very able covers justification and predestination.  Doug Jones contributes the section on covenantal theology.  Covenant theology is the true heart of the Reformed viewpoint.  These few chapters ably lay out the scriptural basis for it and explore the implications of it.  A third section concerns the church, including its nature, the sacraments, and church discipline.  This is the weakest section of the book, but still adequate for the overall purpose.  Particularly, one wishes that more time would have been spent on the nature of worship and on the place of the sacraments in the corporate life of the church.  Finally, Hagopian himself handles the section on the Christian life, which is mostly a theology of sanctification.  This is perhaps the most immediately practical of the sections.<br />Each chapter ends with a dozen or so review questions.  We are considering using this book in a Sunday school class, so that is a very definite plus.  Any criticism that could be leveled against the book would be on the basis that it could have treated a subject more thoroughly, but doing so would have necessitated expanding the book beyond its purpose.	2003-05-15
US	35537171	R2FCBNINFUPPBB	0271014539	143654999	Jonathan Edwards and the Catholic Vision of Salvation	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Surprisingly Good Read	Morimoto seeks to recast Edwards theology of conversion, justification, sanctification, and glorification in a more ecumenical context than what he calls &quot;textbook protestantism&quot;.  In a way, this makes sense, in that Edwards is without a doubt the foremost American theologian yet to emerge.  On the other hand, it's a little weird, in that Edwards himself did not interact much with Roman Catholicism. In fact, most of Edwards works are very much defined by the intellectual climate of 18th century New England, and the theological confrontation with New England &quot;Arminianism&quot;.<br />Morimoto compares Edwards primarily to Roman orthodoxy as defined by Aquinas and the Council of Trent.  In doing so, he shows that many of the differences stem from an inability or unwillingness of both protestants and the defenders of Roman orthodoxy to understand the terminology being used by the other side.<br />Morimoto also offers frequent comparisons between Edwards and the first generation of reformers (Luther, Calvin, Bucer, etc.).  The examples he chooses suggests that Edwards formulations are more in line with historical protestantism than much of modern protestantism, and that the very things (such as his definition of faith) that have embarrassed some Edwards scholars like Perry Miller because they seemed to lean toward Roman doctrinal formulations are in fact the points at which Edwards most strongly echoes the early reformers.<br />Morimoto observes that recent Edwards scholarship has been more cognizant of this fact.  From this, he suggests that the current Protestant and Roman understandings of salvation are closer than they have been at any time in the last three centuries.<br />Morimoto's thesis is an interesting one, and he supports it well from primary sources.  If nothing else, this book should stimulate the thought of its readers and perhaps some interesting debate.	2003-05-09
US	35537171	R1NHGDMYYQVC5P	0930031962	675215062	The Contrary Farmer's Invitation to Gardening	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	More inspirational than practical	This is the second book of Logsdon's that I have read, and I intend to read the rest of them.  In many ways, he reminds me of the old farmers who would sit around the barber shop when I was kid.  Mr. Logsdon has opinions on just about everything, and isn't afraid to express them.  One gets the distinct impression that he really won't be too bothered by whether his readers are persuaded by his opinions or not.<br />Amidst his (admittedly spot on) diatribes about industrial farming, government meddling, and modern day prohibitionists he does manage to paint a lovely picture of the garden as the embodiment of the urge to simplicity and living close to the land.  Further, he makes it clear that the reader can start whereever they already are, even if it means growing a few plants in a window box.<br />There is plenty of practical advice, but it is delivered anecdotally.  There aren't any pictures or diagrams, but he describes his compost heated seed starting bed so well that one doesn't need a diagram.  Likewise for what he calls mulch-bed gardening (basically lasagna gardening).  The topics covered include the reason for gardening, vegetable gardening, small scale livestock husbandry (read: pet chickens, at least until they quit laying and end up in the stew pot), and aquatic gardening (ponds and such).<br />The key thing to keep in mind is that this book is an invitation to gardening, and not a primer or a manual.  If you are looking for a how-to guide, this isn't your best book.  If you are wondering whether you might enjoy gardening, or if you are already a gardener and you need something to do between the first frost and the last frost, this is an excellent read.	2003-05-08
US	35537171	R12E87FT8KPNIX	0825431190	793275892	Commentary on Romans	Books	2	32	35	N	Y	worthy commentary, but find a better edition	I really wanted to give a higher rating to this little book, but the further I read, the more frustrated I got.  The translator and editor adopted a rather annoying convention of including parenthesised explanatory notes in italics.  90% of the time these notes are redundant and serve only to interrupt the flow of the text (for instance, indicating the antecedent of a preposition when it is perfectly obvious).  In a few cases, these notes actually distort the sense of what Luther is saying.<br />Beyond that, it's difficult to know exactly how to rate Luther's writing itself.  Being from the Reformed tradition rather than the Lutheran, I would obviously take issue with Luther on some minor points, and perhaps suggest Calvin's or Murray's commentary instead.  Luther does have the rather annoying habit of arguing against works and reason in extremely strong terms and then later coming back to explain that he is not rejecting works but only the reliance upon them or reason, but only the wrong use of it.  This is understandable in the context of the original writing, but a more careful use of terms that avoids the problem entirely would have been preferable.<br />The book has considerable historical merit.  Most of the content comes directly from his lectures in the second decade of the 16th century and was not significantly revised when it was published later.  The preface on the other hand, written in 1557 gives a clearer indication of Luther's mature theology and is frequently quoted in works about Luther.  If you are looking for essential Luther, Bondage of the Will or his Commentary on Galatians would be a better fit for that purpose.<br />Finally, we must note that the book is what I call a pastoral commentary.  That is, the interest of the author is primarily in assisting the reader in applying God's Word in his or her life.  As such, it devotes no time to questions of the date and circumstance of Romans, and very little to matters of translation or text criticism.  If you are looking for what I would call a &quot;scholarly&quot; commentary to assist you in preparing lessons, sermons, or what not, this is not what you are after.<br />If it weren't for the awful italic insertions, I probably would have given it a 4..  If you are looking for what I would call a &quot;scholarly&quot; commentary to assist you in preparing lessons, sermons, or what not, this is not what you are after.<br />If it weren't for the awful italic insertions, I probably would have given it a 4.	2003-05-08
US	35537171	R20AIB0MPW897S	0743219341	27628996	Baby Catcher: Chronicles of a Modern Midwife	Books	5	70	73	N	N	Honest and engaging	Although I am a strong advocate of midwife assisted home birth, I probably wouldn't have bought this book myself.  That would have been my loss.  My wife had borrowed it from our midwife, and I had run out of things to read, so I decided it would be a good way to pass the time.<br />Mrs. Vincent's story is not only the story of herself, but it is the story of midwifery in the late 20th century in general.  The early portion of the story, chronicling her time as a nursing student in the early 60s when natural childbirth was not at all accepted, serves as a pretty good summation of the things that my wife hated about our first daughter's hospital birth, and the reason we chose to have our second at home.  In short, the ideological conflict between midwifery and hospital birth is this:  Mrs. Vincent and those like her believe each labour should be treated as normal unless some serious complication presents itself.  Obstetricians see labour as an inherently dangerous medical condition requiring their intervention.<br />We follow the author through her career as she becomes a certified nurse midwife, gets privileges at a prestigious Bay Area hospital, and develops relationships with patients and doctors along the way.  This also gives us a fascinating and humorous glimpse at the way American culture has changed over the last 40 years.  For whatever reason, home birth seems to attract a greater percentage of unusual people than one might find in a random sample of the population.  They're all here:  people who have pets at their birth, recovering drug addicts, hippies making the transition to suburban yuppie life, families with complicated emotional dynamics.<br />The stories of individual births are great, and many are very uplifting, but the book as a whole is something of a downer.  This is due to the time of its writing.  In the early 90s, after many years of phenomenal gains, home birth had a dark period as the ability of midwives to secure malpractice insurance was severely constrained.  Mrs. Vincent's own story provides a particularly tragic example of this.  Thankfully, the situation has improved - a point she makes in a brief epilogue.<br />The book also has a few helpful appendices indicating what supplies one ought to have at a homebirth, cost studies of midwife assisted vs. physician assisted birth and so on.severely constrained.  Mrs. Vincent's own story provides a particularly tragic example of this.  Thankfully, the situation has improved - a point she makes in a brief epilogue.<br />The book also has a few helpful appendices indicating what supplies one ought to have at a homebirth, cost studies of midwife assisted vs. physician assisted birth and so on.	2003-04-23
US	35537171	RE1DFQ39YKHOE	0945466358	713819379	Economics for Real People: An Introduction to the Austrian School	Books	5	76	81	N	Y	An Accessible Introduction to Economics	Callahan (and the Austrian school in general) explain economics in terms of human action rather than the abstract and sometimes obtuse models of classical economists.  Beginning with the simplest possible scenario, a single human acting in isolation, Callahan builds a hypothetical society and uses it to explain the crucial concepts of economics in a style and language that should be accessible to anyone who has completed high school.<br />He explains the concept of subjective valuation with his individual on the island, then begins adding people and concepts.  He quickly takes us through direct exchange, a refutation of the labor theory of value, the introduction of money (including the explanation of the criteria that make something a good choice to use as money), time preference (and how the interest rate serves as the &quot;price&quot; of a time preference), and so on.  In the second half of the book he explains concepts that are a bit more abstract - how do central banking and fiat money work?  What causes the business cycle?  How does a free market system handle externals (benefits or consequences imposed upon those not party to an exchange -e.g. water pollution).<br />Throughout it all, Callahan cogently makes the case for a truly free market as the only means of efficiently satisfying the desires of a society's members.<br />There are things I would have liked Callahan to cover better, for instance, a greater discussion of how the neo-classical economists work, and how their theories influence media reporting of economic issues (think about all the indicators that we are bombarded with in the business section of the paper).  However, I don't see how he could have covered that material while keeping the book small and readable.  He does give an extensive bibliography for those wishing to further investigate particular points.<br />A handy appendix gives the five page version of the history of the Austrian movement.  It seems foolish to say this with it only being April, but I expect this will be the best book I read this year.  I would give it more than 5 stars if I could.ing April, but I expect this will be the best book I read this year.  I would give it more than 5 stars if I could.	2003-04-23
US	35537171	RX03H724M4Z51	0966378601	684114569	Shepherding a Child's Heart	Books	4	438	524	N	N	Practical advice from a radically different philosophy	The key thing that distinguishes Tripp's book from most parenting books is that he rightly understands that our goal in parenting is not to produce children who are obedient, nor is it to produce children who are happy.  Rather, both of these are the beneficial result of raising our children in such a way that we are always addressing the issues of the heart (selfishness, rebelliousness, discontent, etc.) rather than just working on the externals.<br />Tripp gives some very practical advice to this end: how to recognise the &quot;teachable moments&quot;, how to spank, the problems with strategies that don't work (e.g. bargaining or bribery).  He also makes it clear that discipline only works in an atmosphere of trust and communication.  I was very pleasantly surprised to see someone agree with me that in a situation where you &quot;know&quot; your child has done something wrong, but you don't have the evidence to prove it, the right thing to do is to encourage honesty on their part, but if necessary to let them get by with it, rather than acting on a presupposition that might be wrong and injuring the trust between parent and child.  He also writes a good bit about parenting goals and strategies for different age groups (from toddlerhood to teenage).<br />The book does have its flaws, though.  The most serious is that Tripp does not do a sufficient job of setting the context of what we are about in parenting.  Doug Wilson's Standing on the Promises does that well, and should be viewed as a necessary companion to this book.  As another reader pointed out, he also does not effectively discuss how to build attachment during the early years (although he hints at it - for instance, his insistence that the child be laid across the lap for spanking is grounded in a desire to not distance the child and he condemns parenting methods that attempt to manipulate the emotional fears of children to achieve a result).<br />I was tempted to give the book a lower rating due to some philosophical problems with Tripp in his view of whether God promises to work through godly parenting to bring children to faith, his views of education and socialisation and so on.  However, he does not work out a practice consistent with these flaws and touches on them only tangentially, so they can mostly be overlooked.<br />He also has a tendency to be a bit absolutist about things that aren't absolutes.  For instance, he sees spanking as the only effective means of punishment in discipline.  He rightly understands that the purpose of spanking is to get the child's attention so that the real work of discipline (the teaching aspect) can proceed out of the infraction, but doesn't seem to understand that with some children there are more effective means of getting their attention.  I'm a big fan of spanking, but have recognised in my own daughter that sometimes the removal of privileges is much more effective.philosophical problems with Tripp in his view of whether God promises to work through godly parenting to bring children to faith, his views of education and socialisation and so on.  However, he does not work out a practice consistent with these flaws and touches on them only tangentially, so they can mostly be overlooked.<br />He also has a tendency to be a bit absolutist about things that aren't absolutes.  For instance, he sees spanking as the only effective means of punishment in discipline.  He rightly understands that the purpose of spanking is to get the child's attention so that the real work of discipline (the teaching aspect) can proceed out of the infraction, but doesn't seem to understand that with some children there are more effective means of getting their attention.  I'm a big fan of spanking, but have recognised in my own daughter that sometimes the removal of privileges is much more effective.	2003-04-11
US	35537171	R1334IY341EHXU	0871562782	744232201	The Complete Book of Edible Landscaping: Home Landscaping with Food-Bearing Plants and Resource-Saving Techniques	Books	4	58	62	N	Y	Good Introduction to Landscaping, good reference	I have a couple of minor criticisms about this book, so let me begin with those.  Firstly, it is showing its age.  It makes frequent reference in the early chapters to the water shortages and environmental disasters that were widely expected to occur by the end of the century.  As you know by now, those never really materialised.  There is still plenty of reason to be concerned about the way American society (mis)uses resources, but the threat is neither as immediate or as dire as the author makes out.<br />Secondly, in the suggestions on building planters, and retaining walls, the author fails to note the potential dangers of CCA treated lumber (now being phased out) and railroad ties treated with creosote.<br />Lastly, more color illustrations would have been nice.  Those that are there are very good.  The b&w drawings are nice, but not as good as photos.<br />Those criticisms out of the way, the book is excellent.  The first few chapters provide the rationale for edible landscaping, then introduces the principles of landscaping, giving numerous examples of applying different themes to different climates.  The chapters on techniques, especially in relation to trees (the basics of pruning, and plenty of advice on espaliering) are particularly good.  An entire chapter is devoted to identifying insects and dealing with the undesirables.<br />The second half of the book is a plant encylopedia.  Handy to have in one volume, but if you already have a good plant encyclopedia, it is probably redundant.	2003-03-28
US	35537171	R29ZBA53IOKMZT	0570031885	963863593	Luther on Justification	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A very concise review of Luther's theology of Justification	Although quite compact (five short chapters and an introduction), this book is a very helpful guide to Luther's theology of justification.  Probably greater than half of the total verbage of the book are direct quotes from Luther, arranged with just enough of Leaver's commentary to relate the quotes and provide some context for them.<br />Leaver arranged the material in five chapters, each exploring an aspect of Luther's formulation of the doctrine of justification, specifically, what justification means, what it means that justification is by faith, what it means that justification is by faith alone, and what it means that justification is by faith in Christ.<br />The downside to the book is that Leaver does not take the time to examine how Luther's theology developed throughout his life.  However, the extensive footnotes provide the reader plenty of suggestions for primary source material to study tha topic.	2003-02-24
US	35537171	R1N2DIS9GEXMZ1	0900841834	866955977	First Steps in Winemaking	Books	3	12	13	N	Y	Too brief to give the beginner any confidence	The book is essentially divided into two sections.  The first covers the basic principles of wine making: the science behind it, the key ingredients, and the necessary tools and techniques.  The second half is a pretty substantial list of recipes, concentrating heavily on country wines.<br />Sadly, the coverage of the principles and techniques was too brief, particularly with regard to timing.  I am still at a bit of a loss as to how long one should allow the aerobic ferment to take place, how long for the anaerobic format and so on.  I think I'll be getting another book that focuses more on technique before I make my first attempt.	2003-02-10
US	35537171	R16T7UI95TPLEM	0553585509	680501056	Turning the Storm	Books	4	12	17	N	Y	A great improvement over the first volume in the series	In Turning the Storm, Naomi Kritzer has hit her stride.  The sudden change of tone that marred the first book, Fires of the Faithful, is absent here.  The book reads very consistently.  Elianna is also a more believable character in this volume - her inept (but successful, largely due to chance (criticisms regarding deus ex machina become appropriate here)) approach to spying is much more believable than her suddenly discovered prowess as a warrior was in the previous volume.  Character development is even and believable - one can easily imagine that a person would respond to the other characters in the way Elianna does.  Like the first book, it is written in the first person, so the reader gets a good peek inside the protagonists head.<br />The setting, based apparently on southern Europe of the Renaissance period is believable, if not compelling.  The characters on the other hand, seem to think very much like modern Westerners, so they do not fit into the environment as well as they could.<br />Some readers may be put off by the culmination of Elianna's incipient lesbianism (thankfully, it is not graphically depicted).  A bigger problem, is Elianna's motivation.  Unlike many of the classic fantasy books, where the reader can feel the urgency and necessity of the hero's cause, Elianna seems mostly driven by a need for revenge.  While she has a concern to free the people who follow her, it becomes clear that those who she has allied herself to are willing to replace to preserve the status quo as long as they become the ones in charge.<br />Had it been a choice, I would have given it 3.5 stars.  I think the backstory concerning Gaius and the discovery of magery and the initial conflict between the Old Way and the new religion represented by the Fedeli might make a much more involving read.  That said, this is still a good paperback novel for reading on an airplane or when you have nothing else to do on a wet afternoon.	2003-02-06
US	35537171	R1CZXIT8DAWOPX	0887307280	499218489	The E-Myth Revisited: Why Most Small Businesses Don't Work and What to Do About It	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	Good Advice - mostly common sense	Gerber's book is a very easy read, and should stimulate your thought processes even if you disagree with some of his advice.  His major thesis is that many small businesses fail because they are started by technicians who are not prepared to handle the managerial and entrepreneurial tasks that go with running a business.<br />His minor thesis (which he spends far more time on) is that a small business should be run as if the intent were to franchise it.  As a consequence, the owner should devise systems to insure consistentcy in execution of every aspect of the business.  As part of this, Gerber advises envisioning the business at the point of maturity, determining what the systems and personnel roles will need to be at that point, and starting from day one acting as if you were at that point of maturity (this might mean that you have one person filling eight roles).<br />Having witnessed a number of small business failures, and having participated in one, I find myself in agreement with all of his major points, but not necessarily in the execution of them (which, as an aside, he should have developed more thoroughly).  With my next entrepreneurial adventure, I will definitely be following his advice regarding systems and organisation.	2003-01-30
US	35537171	R2E40COR0H6IGQ	1558580107	623510960	Rainbow Fish, The	Books	1	10	15	N	N	Karl Marx would be proud	Someone gave my daughter this book, and after one reading I tossed it.  As many other reviewers have pointed out, the book begins with a premise which could serve to teach many valuable lessons.  The protagonist is more beautiful than all the other fish, and is prideful because of his beauty.  Rather than creating a story where the fish must deal with his pride, the author instead points to the fish's beauty as the source of his problem.  In order to win acceptance with the other fish, he removes his beautiful scales and gives them to the other fish to buy their affection.  If the author wants us all to be socialists, he should begin by giving his book away for free (hopefully, he won't.  The last thing we need is greater circulation of claptrap such as this).	2003-01-24
US	35537171	RURX8A85917CH	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not likely to be read by those to whom it would be useful	The folks who are most likely to read a book by Coulter (conservatives and libertarians) are generally well aware of her thesis (mass media is dominated by proponents of the liberal point of view).  As such, there really isn't anything new here.<br />That said, Ms. Coulter does a thorough job of documenting this bias.  On the downside, in pointing out the unsubstantiated generalisations of the left, she frequently throws out her own unsubstantiated generalisations as asides (for what its worth, I think most of her generalisations could be substantiated, but in a book that argues against such things, it seems a bit foolish for the author to commit the same sin).<br />So, if you think mass media is objective or has a conservative bent, you should read this book and prepare to have your presuppositions challenged.  If you already think the media is dominated by east and west coast liberals, I would suggest looking for something else.	2003-01-20
US	35537171	R36AU7MED8OOI	0060193158	951535361	H.M.S. Unseen	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Not as good as the first three	I loved Nimitz Class and Kilo Class, but find that HMS Unseen is only about average.  As others have pointed out, there is a great deal of detail that isn't really pertinent to the story.  One suspects that Robinson was hungry during the entire time he was writing this novel.  Additionally, the storyline is not as believable as the plots from the earlier novels.	2003-01-10
US	35537171	R2BF3GIPMCF4S0	0310575729	197672893	Charismatic Chaos	Books	2	47	65	N	N	Poor Handling of the Cessationist Viewpoint	I am a cessationist.  I generally find Dr. MacArthur's books interesting, engaging, and helpful.  Thus, it may come as a suprise that I do not care for this particular book.  My problem is the approach that MacArthur takes.<br />Firstly, he uses extensive primary source material, but it is mostly from televangelist style Charismatics such as Paul Crouch.  He has preselected his sources in such a way that he is critiquing a caricature of the charismatic movement rather than the charismatic movement itself.  It would have been much more helpful to see him interact with responsible writers like Wayne Grudem or Gordon Fee.<br />Secondly, he bases his reasoning for the cessation of sign gifts in part on very poor exegesis of I Cor 13.  Very little discussion is given to the important question of the function of the sign gifts in the New Testament church.<br />Pass this one by and pick up a book on the topic by Richard Gaffin or Donald Macleod.	2003-01-09
US	35537171	R39RRV958FL089	0130946354	859537124	The Old Testament Story (6th Edition)	Books	2	7	18	N	N	About 100 years behind the times	We used this as a textbook in Old Testament Survey at Belmont - I suspect largely because the author had just retired from a professorship there.  The book is well written, and accessible, but not particulary useful.<br />Tullock assumes the validity of the documentary hypothesis (as developed by Wellhausen et al.) and proceeds from there, which is a fatal flaw for two reasons:  1)The introductory student probably doesn't care about theories of composition and would be better served by spending more time becoming acquainted with the content and themes of the OT books; 2)Wellhausen's theories are deeply flawed, as many authors in the past century have pointed out (as an example, see Kline's Structure of Biblical Authority, which makes a compelling case that the form of Deuteronomy is that of an ancient treaty and only fits the milieu of the Mosaic period).<br />Skip this one.<br />Note:  the above comments apply to the edition which was current in 1991.  One hopes that Tullock has improved the book during the intervening decade.	2003-01-09
US	35537171	R2YL5XPC95H45U	031021081X	495578543	The Book of Sorrows	Books	5	15	17	N	N	I literally wept throught the entire book	This was a very difficult book to read.  It probably won't have much impact on you if you haven't read Book of the Dun Cow first, but if you have, prepare to cry like a baby.  The story picks up with the aftermath of the battle that ended the previous book.  Unlike most fantasy novels where life goes back to normal, the Book of Sorrows deals seriously with the grim consequences.  Into the midst of it comes a profound spiritual struggle - Chauntecleer's old enemy Wyrm uses uses the Rooster's sense of failure to lead him to embark on a course of action which will have disastrous consequences for all involved.	2002-12-17
US	35537171	R3JY8KDB8FJRN9	0553585177	571131857	Fires of the Faithful	Books	3	0	1	N	N	It's like two good books that don't fit together	The first half of the book is a truly different take on the fantasy novel.  Kritzer creates a believable world with compelling characters.  The second half of the book is a more run of the mill fantasy novel, but still quite well executed.  The problem is that the two halves don't read like a unified story.<br />The second half of the novel brings a jarring change in tone (perhaps intentional given the change in setting), and reveals an interesting new side to the protagonist (which is terribly unbelievable given the age at which she entered the conservatory).  That said, I'll probably buy the sequel anyway.	2002-12-04
US	35537171	R1SN7TUCY6SDYC	0875523897	781490735	Postmillennialism: An Eschatology of Hope	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Excellent summary	Although one could easily point to a number of books that handle invididual aspects of eschatological discussion more fully, I have not found any other book that succinctly covers the broad range of material that Mathison's does.  In 250 pages he covers the exegetical basis for postmillenialism from both the Old and New Testaments, its place within Church history, its interaction with other doctrines of Christianity, and the objections to postmillenialism and the rebuttals to them.  I highly recommend this book to anyone wishing to become more acquainted with the postmillenial viewpoint.	2002-11-29
