US	35564158	R2R8XSQ6MZP8DW	0679415890	320079974	500 Fat-Free Recipes: A Complete Guide to Reducing the Fat in Your Diet	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Simple, tasty, Fat Free cooking for humans	I ran into this title at the local library hunting ways to modify a diet for me to gain muscle and for my husband to protect his heart bypass which lasted 15 years and is now getting a worried eye from the Doc.  Dragged in unwilling but knowing he has no other choice he's hard to please esp when his idea of a snack is 8 or 9 Mounds Snack Bites [not exactly low in fat] He doesn't miss it a bit. He also doesn't have to give up his beloved Chocolate with recipes like her Coca Cake with .9 [not 9 grams but point 9 grams] of fat or chocolate pudding ringing in with .6 grams fat and both with low cholesterol [0 cake and 2 pudding.] <br /> <br />She breaks down clearly at the end of each recipe calories per serving, fat, cholesterol [hanging it at 0 a LOT of the time], protein, carbs, Dietary fiber and sodium.  Nice very nice but the recipes are varied, interesting and flavorful. I can make many of them without a special trip to the store on the spur of the moment. <br /> <br />Fruit without that ton of sugar added some recipes want to add but still sweet and flavorful. Excellent source for those meatless meals also or just plain great for adding to your favorite meat based meal. Easy to follow recipes esp for those who want to cut and not spend the entire day figuring out how to cut the fat. And the best part?  You might not know you are [unlike the low sugar, low carb, low fat candy bar he just purchased \\"So they flavor plastic now?\\" ---The cake won hands down]   <br /> <br />A must for any cooks library and a Golden book for anyone who wants simple recipes.	2004-10-07
US	35564158	R2SF6BCJ1AMGCC	1567921922	374613476	The Man Who Liked Slow Tomatoes (Balzic Mystery Series: No. 5)	Books	1	4	13	N	N	Thank Goodness it was cheap	Thank goodness it is a small book.  Thank goodness I found it at half price day at the local booksale. Thank goodness I didn't bother to buy the rest of the series if they are like this one. <br /> <br />Lots of dull un-insightful talk. VERY dull un-insightful talk while the chief chews everything over. Now I am not one who turns down a good book with insightful characterizations and conversations. Action is not needful for a mystery.  I am one who turns down pointless conversations and poor characterizations. <br /> <br />Avoid city contract problems, find missing husband, find out about major dealers. None of which develop into anything but proceed to bounce off and around each other almost pointlessly while a loose interconnection of the missing but NOT missing[??? or is he missing?] husband wanders thru it.  Then a rapid here's what happened in the end shoved into a few pages. Yeah and why should I care?  The author didn't if he took something that could have been expanded and gave me a slap dash summary of a few pages. <br /> <br />Characterizations leave a lot to be desired. I never got a full image of anyone even from the chief's view and we won't go into the image of the chief I did get.   177 pages of boredom in one small package. Too bad I didn't get it on bag day for about a penny.	2004-07-27
US	35564158	R3FRNMSLMCUVVE	0312268947	955957073	The Hunting Wind: An Alex McKnight Mystery (Alex McKnight Mysteries (Hardcover)) (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Ok so it had a bit of redeeming value	The plot was good. The characterization shabby.  I sincerely wondered about Alex's sanity in the first 50 pages. In fact it was hard to buy that he was stupid enough NOT to see thru his old friend.  The old friend's characterization was even stupider. The same ole refrain repeated shallow and whining again and again and again and again until by page 100 I was screaming OH SHUT UP.  Either Alex was a saint [he isn't btw] or just plain stupid. [well, now.. one does wonder.]<br />What could have been a fantastic story got lost in stereotypes, cliches, and just plain dribble.  Boy meets girl. Boy looses girl due to his own ego he claims.  Boy hunts up moronic friend stupid enough to help him.  Friend almost got his (...) blown away. Finds out girl is a gypsy con artist.  Boy almost gets (...) blown away.  Friend finds out that Everyone Else in the Universe knows Boy is a big mouthed lying con including his family who is sick of him and hopes he dies. And so does readers by this point.  \\"Like, duh.\\" and you are suppose to be an investigator and your partner can't even find this out about old friend? Cut me a break.<br />Bad noir, worse characterizations, great plot idea if worked on.  <br />readable but why when there is so much better out there?<br />So glad I helped out Goodwill to the tune of cents instead of dollars for this.	2004-06-11
US	35564158	R3OBDHPZJYX70Y	0312983816	643724304	North of Nowhere: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Enough already	Get the man some Paxil and a good job.  It gets to be too much.  There is a great deal of difference between skillfully crafted noir-ish pain and sheer wallowing self pity which some seem to think means &quot;They are senstive&quot;.  <br />Same complaints.  Stereotypical characters, dull unwilling PI who really needs to find a good meat packing plant to work at.  Keeps on just missing with a plot that could have been great as a vehicle for a good noir or Hardboiled PI.  Poor Alex.  Undercooked.	2004-06-11
US	35564158	RY0V2PLVU30OY	0515136956	5810456	Final Edge	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Final Edge.	This is the final book in the series according to what I have read.  There is a sense of loss with the ending of any good series. I enjoyed the series and Final Edge. <br />Having read Stone Cold by Parker had almost turned me on \\"couple\\" killers. I was almost reluctant to read Final Edge because of this. The fact I loved the other Edges and Stonecoat convinced me to at least try the book.  <br />I was relieved that Walker gave me interesting complex Serial Killers.  It was sheer delight. The complex pysche of the female killer was the draw for me to finish the book.  I had to read to find out where she was going next.<br />I started the series, as I said, because of Stonecoat.  I was a bit disappointed in him and his lack of development in this book.  It was as if he was \\"wrapped up\\".  This made sense after I read it was the last of the series.  He didn't seem to develop as deeply as previously.  As I said he was wrapped up and so was the good Dr. Instead the complex insight used on Stonecoat in earlier Edges went into the killers.  It worked.  I don't regret adding it to my bookshelf as a keeper addition.  <br />As the final book it worked and worked very well leaving me with a content feeling about the series. If you are new to the series read the other Edges then read this one but be sure to read this one. See if we can't talk him into more or at least Remo and North. (...)	2004-04-10
US	35564158	R2J2CG831M9O0K	0553103512	568724253	Floaters	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not exactly typical	Being a fan of The Glitter Dome, Delta Star and his other works I was expecting a typical Wambaugh.  This one wasn't.  It struck me more as an Elmore Leonard with Wambaugh humor in it.<br />It was funny.  It did make me laugh out loud causing stares for it seems America needs to get a good sense of humor.  I would have been asking the title something like the woman in the Restaurant scene in Harry and Sally.<br />The plot revolves around saving the Americas Cup for the USA and the people that play a part in the crime and the people that effect the efforts of the police and the crime.  The view switches between the leads. The cup itself is the main character not any one person.  This can lead to thinking it is a slow plot or confusing. The talk of the cup and the racers reaches a point of boredom but Wambaugh himself writes into the book that no one else cares about this stuff just when you are about to say &quot;Give the cup away.&quot;<br />Not your typical Wambaugh.	2004-03-29
US	35564158	RQIDLKEO02XE0	0679463321	565707898	Killing Time	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Run away, run very far away	I have attempted this book three times.  I give full credit that sometimes my inital impression of a book is based on mood.  Mine.  However if they are really good writers they can change my mood.<br /> I read this when issued.  I read it a year later and I just attempted it again.  It does not, like a good wine, improve with age.  If fact if I had my choice we would have a neg rating.<br />The book gives the impression of being extremely disjointed.  It never comes together into a cohesive whole.  Mr Carr is a fantastic historian.  His historical characters breathe with a life of their own.  The events are page turners and even the slow sections are interesting bits of historical insight into not only the era but the character.  Can I apply this to Killing Time?  You have to be joking.  I had to struggle thru even the fast sections [there were none] The characters had so much personality I was sort of hoping they would have an accident in time and elimate themselves [the butterfly effect] We were not so blessed.  This Genre is NOT his strong point.  It didn't even make it to a point.<br />If you must, read it in the library and save carrying a book home for one that is worth it. It won't take long I promise you.	2004-03-21
US	35564158	R2GLLIVQVEWDQB	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	1	3	4	N	N	What on earth happened to Pat?	First Ilse of Dogs which was a Dog.  The Ripper wasn't far behind and now this.  Does it rate a one.. no.  Hacked and trite BUT I will admit not as bad as De Dog which isn't saying much.  It could be toilet paper for the outhouse instead of going to the burn barrel.  <br />What happened?  Different Ghost writer? A Ghost writer? What? What?  <br />Or maybe it is just time to stop writing for a while.  It is better to leave your fans gasping for more than just gasping.<BR>One starts to wonder.	2004-03-21
US	35564158	R2N7N6DR7VXTBP	0425180638	109258524	The Last Precinct: Scarpetta (Book 11)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	The beginning of the end?	I waited for a while to say this.  Every author can have a bad book or two.  The transitional focus change from what might be seen as a bit more action to a reflective deeper character frankly flopped.  I don't care not because the character isn't worth it but because the author doesn't carry it off.<br />After reading the following books I wondered if this wasn't the first attempt to save something the author had grown bored with and serial characters can become boring.  Other authors have started this transition leading to Best Sellers with only a few grunts of &quot;no&quot; from a few die hard fans of the other version of the writing.  Branching off into other works is also a trait.  The following books were way below standard for her.  So far below I don't bother to even look to see if anything new is coming out nor do I buy them used when they do.<br />Read this? Yes.  It might be Kay's real farewell to us all.	2004-03-21
US	35564158	R1YUTJMJI5KSLI	0060084022	788000175	The Big Bounce	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Noir and don't you forget it.	The big bounce threw me until I realize it was in the tradition of the noir such as I married a Dead Man, The Postman always rings twice, The Killer inside of me and Pick-up. <br />It was't going to follow the more modern concrete line but a more abstract plot. If classic noir isn't your strong point you might be totally lost if you expect a version of Mr.Paradise, Rum Punch or others of his work.  The characters are strong, the plot is noir which might seem pointless or weak to those expecting a 'traditional' mystery.  [Agatha Christie is over to the left thank you.] The play between the thrill seeker in life and those who just coast a long is strong.  It is suprising who wins in the end or do they?  <br />If you are looking for a nice tight sewed up ending where the bad guys are carted off to jail and everything is sewn up neatly in a cute little package.. Aggie, the Cat who, and Sandford is off to the left thank you.  If you want a bit of intellectual exercise or just plain miss the old noir of the 30s to the 50s come on down. It is a real rare bird these days.	2004-03-18
US	35564158	R2GPSUH2M1B6H2	1562828827	852619766	In the Electric Mist with Confederate Dead	Books	5	3	3	N	N	hot, steamy and dark	James Lee Burke always smacks right up against the crossover with &quot;literature&quot;.  His words carry you along until you are there feeling the oppressive Southern humidity oozing around you.  I always feel like I am stationed back in Charleston South Carolina on a hot day.  The man can write.  <br />James Lee Burke is one of the very few authors who can convey accurately exactly what it is like to be a drunk or a recovering drunk.  Dave could fit in any meeting anywhere. Burke weaves it into the plots smoothly.  Dave is Dave and he shares any recovering drunks worry of &quot;What did I do to myself when I was drinking? And when will it show up?&quot;<br />In Electric Mists time gets suspended.  Dave is working on cases tied to the past when he starts to think his drinking must have done some damage to his brain. He is understress and part of that is the threat to his family. He suspects he has &quot;lost&quot; it and the damage done by Alcohol is showing up under his stress.  He feels he might be hallucinating. <br />He is meeting with Confederate troops from the past. They seem real but they can't be for they have been dead for years.  He chalks it up to his prior drinking bringing out these characters to discuss his case with him. After all they can't be real. Ghosts aren't real.  If they are he is attune to something defying the reality in which he exists but if they aren't he has damage that will alter that reality anyway.  A cop can't hallucinate and be a cop.<br />As he searches for the answers the Confederates messages get more urgent to him.  Past pulls on past and the far past until the final climax. Brain Damaged hallucinations? Dave is smart enough when he knows to keep the answer to himself for after all the past is past.	2004-03-18
US	35564158	R21IN3VWDUDR1Z	0399151443	764741424	High Country (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Oh where oh where is the Track of the Cat Greatness...	The overall plot was interesting, the events were interesting.  The fact it took 8 pages to describe something that could have been done in 3 pages with a better pacing wasn't.  I lost track in the middle when Anna goes hiking because of the excessive description.  Her early books were well paced, excellent descriptions, interesting reads.  <br />At some point she seems to have started to get paid by the word and it expanded into pointless reflections and descriptions.  Where show not tell should be is tell not show and vs.  I went to sleep three times while trying the hair raising middle of the book [not in the least but such potential.]  I couldn't buy her own reaction to her own reactions.  STOP REFLECTING until after the event Anna.  I would be too busy trying to save my butt than to think about gee should I be doing this will I be evil if I do.   Edited, reworked it would be as good as her early ones which I adore.  <br />The plain crash is, I admit, getting old.  It has been well done by too many authors [drugs or otherwise] and too many movies. Da device is old Nevada and wasn't well written enough to swing it.  It did have possiblities that got prosed away.	2004-03-15
US	35564158	R2QBCF6B9ESG4N	0380975564	492357065	Slow Burn	Books	4	0	0	N	N	laugh so hard I had tears running	It isn't my usual fare.  I like them dark and gritty.  Leo does have moments like that.  Harry Bosch, the &quot;newer&quot; Elvis Cole, Charlie Parker and their close relations in the book field are part of my usual fare along with a lot of even darker authors.<br />Leo is a bit of that with a lot of Archie McNally and several other good 'laugh' series thrown in. Look close at the reality and it hurts.  He comes across as someone who knows this and laugh is better than crying when faced with something that can hurt.  Ford succeeds.  The inherent gritty is what kept me reading along with the laughter.  Other authors such Evanovich just doesn't take me there.  Plum doesn't have that touch for me.<br />Leo is having what I called one of those days [years or lifetimes] starting with the first line setting the stage for the entire book.  Do good just doesn't get the reward but does in the end.  &quot;If I don't laugh, I'll cry and if I cry I am done for.&quot; was my mantra a lot of the time when I worked in law enforcement. The ending with good being rewarded seemed bittersweet because you get the feeling Leo knew it was the exception to the rule and indications of that is in the book.<br />It isn't the usual funny detective fare, it isn't the usual gritty fare or bleakness but it all hangs in there.  I bought it as a 'cheap when I get to it I'll read it for something to do' book and now I am looking for the rest of the series.<br />If you want a serious hard reality book. Don't look here.  If you want a once in a while it works and a laugh, it is worth the price. I woke the Other Half, the cats and my cockatiels at 2 am howling because I wanted to find out what happened next.	2004-03-10
US	35564158	RC2D3SD39ETXU	1584440244	679664374	Alice in La-LA Land	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hard to put down with a Chaplin "Modern Times" ending	If you have seen Modern Times you know in the end you highly doubt that beautiful hope they have is going to play out but you still hope.  Whistler, the main character, would understand that statement.<br />It is not a novel for the faint hearted.  Campbell explores a world of sex, murder, pleasure and pain.  A world of hooker of all sexes and none, TV, Transsexuals, Gender Benders, runaways, throwaways and the atmosphere around them.  Set in this is a beautiful woman who isn't what she seems, a star who is what he seems, a daughter who plunged thru the looking glass from Alanta to La-La land.  It takes a while but you'll figure out who the Red Queen is, who Alice actually is, who Chessie is, the rabbit and the rest.  <br />Hardbitten, hard boiled and with that hope no matter how lost it is at the end.  Not for the faint hearted, not for those who like pink colored glasses.  A passing knowledge of Thru the looking glass and Alice in wonderland helps.	2004-02-28
US	35564158	RWMJXJB5UFTQW	0312253427	494842264	Dark Dreams: Sexual Violence, Homicide And The Criminal Mind	Books	2	15	33	N	N	Reads like pop psych	I was hoping for better when I picked the book up and purchased it.  I was disappointed. Perhaps I just listened to well to my profs who said &quot;don't believe everything anyone who says they have authority tell you.  Make them prove it.&quot;<br />First I had to go to the web to find any qualifications for Hazelwood. Second I still have no clue as to his educational background.  Third lots of good rubbernecking details but lacking sadly on proof of any of his statements.  I can tell you what I saw working in 14 years of Forensic Psych but it doesn't mean I am right without hard stats to prove my point.  He doesn't yield them. Might they be locked in a safe somewhere because I haven't seen valid proof of some of his theories yet.  I can't say they are wrong but I can't say they are right.  I need numbers to back up what he says.  He also has a very &quot;Christian&quot; start using one of the early Christian writers to exemplify his model of certain behavior.  It didn't fly.  The parallels were too vague and too cultural centric of a Purtain background.  At no time did I feel he was an impartial observer but had an agenda to &quot;prove&quot; something.  If he didn't it was the strong impression the book gave.  There were some interesting theories that would have been better presented in another manner.  <br />Is it worth the read?  For all the faults, yes.  It does present some interesting theories that while they might be unfounded in the end [give me some hard stats please] are worth examining.	2004-02-25
US	35564158	R18LDW218BH626	0446601462	71335028	Doll (87th Precinct)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast, accurate and page turning	It would be nice if some cared enough to quote prof reviewers who actually cared to read the work unlike Ingram's stupid mistake of saying it was Bert Kling who disappears.  It was Steve Carella.  After 50 some books one would think they could get it right finally.  <br />The work is classic McBain.  It gives you the feel for police work.  Slow where it should be and fast where it should be.  He takes us into being part of the team not just a entertained reader.  Perhaps that is why he has so many books published.  We become a member of the 87th.  It is spare writing designed for maxium impact.  Never boring except when police work is indeed boring and that only briefly when emotions arise like &quot;TELL US. Quit hedging around and tell us&quot; rises in interviews with witnesses and perps.<br />Steve's disappears and is presumed dead but... well you read the book.  I won't snitch.<br />Shame the original Ingram they quoted didn't bother to read it.  It is worth it. Ah well their loss not mine or yours if you pick it up.	2004-02-07
US	35564158	RYN3L1BFMT0KU	0684818477	134249082	Shades of Justice : A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I was prepared to be bored but the book wasn't boring	With our 10 inches of new snow and having run out of the library books I checked out I hit the pile of maybe books.  Maybe I'll read this now because I don't think I will like it.<br />Suprisingly the book kept my interest.  The forensic pyschologist and the rest of the characters are realistic leaving only slight spaces of &quot;Huh?&quot; and they all behave true to the character type.  Reading carefully you will pick up immediately who might very well have killed poor Mark but the author tends to sway you back and forth a bit leaving you going &quot;Yeah she did, nah she couldn't have&quot; very much like you are a juror.  The ending wasn't a suprise because the clues add up and something is fishy in Denmark early on.  The only fault I find is that the main characters do not pick up rapidly on that but the stress is laid consistantly that they are too close to the situation to see what is happening.  There were some very satisfying parts where the obnoxious Moralistic Extreme Right Wing Bigots get knocked down and a few of the other characters meet a similar fate because they deserved it.  In fact the only fault I can find is that each gets exactly what they deserve.<br />Not a satifying book for obnoxious Moralistic Extreme Right Wing Bigots or incompetents in general because they see themselves but for those of us who want a sense of justice, it is pretty darn good even if my Noir attitude says Not everyone gets what they deserve and I have a hard time believing it.	2004-02-04
US	35564158	R2CBBW748L02XH	0553232401	265144140	Ghosts (87th Precinct, Book 34)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Rarely a book makes the hair stand up on my neck	Ghosts only fault was that it was too short.  Most of McBain's is too short for me.  He is excellent at evoking the feelings a cop has in certain situations for the reader.  You aren't being entertained you actually become part of the 87th's squad.  <br />Ghosts shows insight into Steve's personality.  It is never blatently described instead it is like watching something happen to a friend and partner.  <br />The scene with the house and the ghosts sent chills up my spine.  Sitting here typing I am feeling the same chills.  It was an intensely uncomfortable scene well written to bring those feelings to life for the reader.  You were not reading a story about Ghosts instead you were walking thru the house with Steve and it was happening to you and your partner.  I am extremely hard to do this too.  I usually laugh at Steven King and the rest.  I wasn't laughing here.  The impact in that short scene was perfect.  The writing transported you there.<br />Now perhaps I have a different view because I have worked in law enforcement but if you really want to know what it is like, take a look.	2003-12-20
US	35564158	R3IZ10ZGBYPIXP	0399150870	884197365	Stone Cold (A Jesse Stone Novel)	Books	1	11	13	N	N	Two thumbs down	I have been following Jessie Stone since his creation and was delighted to see another book come out.  After reading it I would be delighted if I don't see another book come out.  <br />The book ran parallel plots which did not intersect except in time frame.  A rape and a serial killer.  I don't have a problem with that.  I like Ed McBain's method of doing that in his 87th novels.  Here is just seemed as if neither plot got fleshed out and took off.  One bounced off the other until you reached the end leaving a \\"Thank God that is done\\" feeling not the satisfied feeling I expect when I close a book.  <br /> Did I care about anyone?  No not even Jess who I rathered liked in previous stories and Jenn managed to really get on my nerves.  Jenn was one dimensional.  Jess almost made it to two dimensional and everyone else were caricatures of people.  They like the plots never fleshed out.  Jess is still obsessing about Jenn. [Yawn Jess hint get a life.  You might be more interesting.  I really don't care at this point]  He's still denying his drinking.  Anyone who is pouring himself a third drink and getting smashed who says \\"Maybe I should just give it all up and be a drunk to make the little woman happy\\" needs a detox asap.  Even when he appears to be making progress [or regression in Jenn's case] I couldn't bring myself to care.<BR>If he had been a friend telling me this I would have responded 'yeah right blah blah blah.' Call me when you get real.  That was the problem he was never real in this book.<br />The serial killers were a laugh a second.  I just couldn't buy this sex crazed couple killing people to get off. They looked like crazed bunny rabbits compared to the real thing. Shake Serial killers shake.  Here comes the fluffy yuppie killers.  I didn't buy the reasoning. I didn't buy Dix's diagnosis.  I didn't buy Dix period.  The rape didn't make it either.  The scenes that should have moved me left me yawning.  The scenes that should have been bitter were reduced to an oh yeah so sad too bad.  The diagnosis of rape read like a male authors concept who doesn't understand the emotions involved or the fears.  What the author thought would be the fears of the majority of women alive today was projected.  why do I say this?  I worked a rape hot line.  I was almost insulted by what he wrote.<br />Don't get me wrong.  I really like Parker.  I like Stone.  I like Spenser.  I like some of his other works.  This is simply a badly written disappointing book.  If you feel you must read it check out your local library.  I have all the other Stone books on my library shelves but on this one?  I pass.  It doesn't even get houseroom.<br />As Ms Dorothy Parker said \\"This is not a book to be put aside lightly. It should be thrown with great force.\\"	2003-11-21
US	35564158	R1MWRF4TOA2NR2	0425137457	815033385	McNally's Luck (Archy McNally)	Books	4	21	24	N	N	kept me reading	I hemmed over the purchase of the book.  When I started to read it [My first Sanders book] I was delighted by the characters.  No one is what they seem.   The first impression is stereotypes but I found that everyone had depths that you would never have attributed to them [Peaches too]. Archie who seems as feather headed as they come and is up there with the best. <br />The plot twists are tied together neatly leaving a satisfied feeling at the end.  While looking for other McNally's books I discovered that Lawrence Sanders had died.  I felt the disappointment I feel when I find that one of my favorite authors has died.  It says a lot on the first book to get that feeling.  <br />I almost turned it down when I read the reviews if you love Block you'll love this.  I hate Block.  I love Sanders.  I plan on reading the rest of Sander's McNally books and plan on the others too.  It was a pleasing suprise. Try it you might be also pleased and suprised.	2003-10-22
US	35564158	R36WIEVWXW3KZO	0316695068	546468505	Hell to Pay: A Novel	Books	1	4	6	N	N	I can't bring myself to pick up another book by him	There are very few authors who have that result after having read one of their books.  He hits the winners list.  The story dragged.  The switching of viewpoints can be wonderful if done properly.  This wasn't one of them.  I kept feeling like slapping the main characters and saying &quot;OH just get on with it.&quot;  The feel of the book was disjointed before I started to skip parts due to sheer boredom.  What really suprised me was skipping didn't hurt the feel one bit.  The disjointed rating stayed the same.  Somehow I don't think that can be classified as good writing.  The characters didn't save the day and involve me enough to make me want to read.<br />I felt like slapping the author when I had to skip what became boring recitations of all the songs he knows.  I pray it is all he knows.  I would hate to think there is more in store for us.  There is a LOT of difference in listening to music, finding it in a movie sound track and reading about it.  Save it for the movie if it ever makes it.  Read Vachss for how it is suppose to be done and spare us Please.<br />The story just didn't hold together well enough to avoid me starting the old skip this.  Even with all the skipping I did I found I didn't lose much.  That says a lot.<br />I looked at his new one and ran far far away to writers I know I enjoy.	2003-10-20
US	35564158	R23S5C94FSX9V9	0195154622	57145412	The New Testament: A Historical Introduction to the Early Christian Writings	Books	5	28	34	N	N	Not for mindless followers	This book will raise questions and allow you to examine the Bible on a historical persepective not a faith based perspective.  It is a teaching text not a bible/christian faith reinforcement text allowing a person to view the events and the history in a manner which may not have been introduced to them.  In various classes there have been problems with those of the fundamentalist view point as well as rigid adherents to Christianity.  <br />It will allow a second viewpoint which is not introduced into most religious settings today.  If you are seeking warm fuzzy reinforcement of beliefs then this is NOT the book for you then read and learn then I suggest those authors who reject all in favor of faith.<br />If you are seeking to learn more about the historical background and the references found in other text of the time which may either reinforce the Christian view or not <br />He provides references for his claims and sources.	2003-10-11
US	35564158	R37TDLES1R5UD6	0671038281	871690726	Batman: No Man's Land	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Not the old Batman	I grew up on Batman comics in the Silver Age of Comics. [Too young for the Golden Age]  Batman was a justice seeker in a world where justice always happened in the correct manner.  This Batman is the Batman of the much darker age of comics.  Justice is not always justice as we know it.  He's flawed as are other characters who were flawless or easily gained insight in the Silver Age. Those traits are not happening here. <br />If you are seeking a Fairy Tale, this isn't the book for you.  If you like a cutting edge and a darkness to your books you might want to take a look. Not as Dark as Vachss' Bat but close. This Bat is much more real than the old Silver Age one.  He grew up.	2003-09-29
US	35564158	R11DQV333NPP3Y	0380715740	266953215	A Stab in the Dark (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	1	2	11	N	N	Snore.. snort.. huh? I guess I went to sleep	I made it the whole way to Jan's and Matt's &quot;enlighting&quot; [not very... cut me a break Block], trite, hack conversation about if he was a drunk or not and realized I was going to sleep.  I made a firm decision and tossed the book into the get rid of this asap pile and went and found something else to read.<br />Block reads like &quot;she said... he said...&quot; conversations. Dry comes to mind.  As I said in a previous review if you really hate &quot;show not tell&quot; in novels this is the writer for you.  He does no showing at all.  I feel as if I am listening to someone outline what might be a very good book.  I had read another book of his which had the same fate as this one: halfway I tossed it into the get rid of this do NOT pass on to someone you like pile.  <br />Matt comes across as the most pathetic attempt at an alcoholic I have encountered in novels [or in real life and I use to work Drug and Alcohol units].  He meanders aimlessly thru his addiction and Block meanders aimlessly thru the plot.  Well suited for each other.  It's a shame.  As I said previously there is great potential for a GREAT story here.  It was wasted more than Matt ever was in his drinking days.<br />IF you must try Block, I suggest the library.	2003-09-27
US	35564158	R31L67ZJN8MX0Y	0380728257	12527119	When the Sacred Ginmill Closes (Matthew Scudder Series)	Books	1	7	30	N	N	What story?	I think there was a possiblity of a great plot in there somewhere with some great characters but it read more like an authors notes than a book.  If you think show not tell is over rated in writing then this is a book you'll love.  It is a flash back of a drunk telling you what he remembers which &quot;ain't&quot; much.  <br />The characters are only seen thru the eyes of the speaker who does a lousy job of telling you what they are like. The speaker, Matt Scrudder, does nothing to involve us in his life or plight.  Anger, love, hate, are all missing from the feelings he evokes.  Sheer boredom is not.  &quot;Well you see I tied one on all year and to the best of my memory here is what I remember before the brain damage.&quot;  Whoop time to go get the coffee while this speaker talks.<br />Matt Scrudder comes across as a joke.  James Lee Burke carrys it off and involves us with Dave.  Kellerman has us hoping Milo stays straight.  Block does not with Scudder.  <br />There are several plots going on at the same time none of which tie into each other or at least tie in well except in his recall of the summer of 75.  It should have stayed there.  Let me know when he's done speaking.  I'll come back with my coffee.	2003-09-20
US	35564158	R3DAX314G80PWY	1575667347	945532141	Wedding Day Murder (Lucy Stone Mysteries, No. 8)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	in the &quot;get rid&quot; of box not to be passed to anyone I like.	The idea seems good. HOWEVER... The ideas behind the characters seems a tad stereotyped and then it gets worse.  I admit it is the first book I have read of Leslie Meier and it might be the last.  The characters never get to the point where I care about them.  Lucy seems scatterbrained and totally inept at anything. Solve a murder? More like blunder into the answer.  By page 79 I personally was hoping she would get wacked not Ron.  Her husband the depressed caveman wanders around complaining things aren't like they use to be and the kids are being kids... a bit boring but kids.  Cosy? Homey? Country? not in the least however it gets five stars for stereotyping.  Not every housewife turned working woman is inept.<br />I didn't manage one once of caring for any of the characters because they never came to life.  I was left wondering &quot;WHY?&quot; Why are you telling me this and do I care most of the time and sadly the answer was no.  A book best thrown aside forcefully.	2003-09-11
US	35564158	R2BH7E0QNM9KPC	0425174271	51899905	Certain Prey	Books	1	4	12	N	N	cannot suspend disbelief on this one	To quote a favorite author of mine: \\"This is not a novel to be tossed aside lightly. It should be thrown aside with great force.\\"  Dorothy Parker.<br />Most authors attempt to make us suspend disbelief.  It is part of good writing.  This Lucus Davenport loses that edge early and died rapidly for me. <br />The concept of a hitwoman is not the problem nor is her attitude toward business.  The same goes for the female lawyer.  I can believe these characters.  The friendship that appears to develop strains it first by the fact the client sees the hitwoman's face and has her stay over night with her.  Rinker deserves to get caught at that time.  How did she know it wasn't a trap? Did the author assume because the buttonman was a buttonwoman she would act differently?  It's business not pleasure and the hitman who mixes business and pleasure and takes risks gets caught or hit.  First strike.<br />The Thelma and Louise act right down to the scarves was pathetic . The presentation of the female lawyer's personality left much to wonder about mainly why didn't she do it all herself if she was that cold? She has no problem later with killing.  And a hitperson who doesn't kill an eye witness even if it is a child? Come on. Ms Lawyer who doesn't want to kill is the one who is gung-ho to knock off the loose end.  Maybe she should have been the hitman. She's sure smarter than softie Rinker and less likely to get taken down.  That Rinker doesn't is totally amazing. She should have been dead when she hit Ms. Lawyers door the first time.<br />By the time I reached the converstation with Barbara Allens space case husband who is suppose to be a lawyer telling Davenport the details of his pillow talk with the female lawyer who spills her guts to him after having coldly done someone in, I did exactly what Parker suggested and picked up another novel by a different author which brought my faith in mystery and suspense writers back.  As to the events I listed...I can buy the one of the above but not all of the above. Pick one and goe with it Sandford.<br />The pace flowed rapidly but the ideas where too far fetched and frankly too stupid for me to buy into. The second Rinker book was better.	2003-08-31
US	35564158	R27A8YACB9T6QN	0140121897	767545308	Silent Knives (Penguin Crime Monthly)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Willows and Parker Addiction	The book is a must in the series of Willows and Parker. Worth the read and worth the money. The review featured by Publishers Weekly is accurate but I somehow doubt they bothered to read the book.  Else they wouldn't have called Jack Willows Jack Williams. Tsk Tsk.  <br />Seriously ignore the inaccurate name calling and get the book it's worth it	2003-08-28
US	35564158	R3CXU7YMFGA3ZJ	0838423965	130662285	Je veux bien! (World Languages)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	poor system based on hear and say learning	Anyone remember the old learn by hearing we tried in English way back in the 60s and 70s that was such a bust? This is based on the same principles.  The idea is if you hear it enough you will learn it by using it and learn the basic rules the same way.<BR>Not taken into account that how many of us live around French speakers could be counted on the writers toes.  The Audio uses rapid speaking natives who use only sentences which are unclear.  The speakers themselves are not clear voices.  Repeats of words are not considered.  The Audio for the chapter does not match the words to be learned.  Instead you are attempting to understand a conversation.  It is not to help you learn to speak correctly.  The idea is presented in the classes at the University where one of the authors is employed is &quot;Don't worry about how you say it. Everyone has a different accent.&quot;  <br />Grammer is bypassed or very poorly covered in hopes that the more you hear the quicker you will learn the rules.  It is not explained properly leaving many students complaining they do not understand simple formation of easy sentences.  Suggestions by others who speak the language of other simple text clearly explaining the rules are made and the problem is solved. If you have to buy another text to gain the basics why buy this one?<br />The pictures are lovely.  The guide to the metro is great. If used for a trip with a good French background it works well. As a text for those who would learn to speak or read it.. pass. Buy a better book. As an addition to a great text.. pick it up. Great for a refesher for those who have French 4 under their belt.  The workbook is a must even for them to gain anything at all from the text.	2003-08-26
US	35564158	R2DROM3F0Q1WK8	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	1	8	8	N	N	Can we go lower in stars say negative?	I have read the other Andy Brazil works and enjoyed them. She is usually a tight fast read keeping your interest and involving you with the characters.  You care.  You want to know what happens.  This book was not anything like that.  I personally could have cared less.  It had a wandering style.  The plot seemed extremely loose as if written over a long period of time without looking at the previous parts and then stuck together. <br />I was extremely disappointed.  It was a very cluttered read.  It was also very choppy. The usual ties and the need to know how everything ties in together is not there. In fact by the middle I was skipping everything to do with Andy's website and wished I could have skipped him in most of it.  I really liked the character in the previous stories. I did not in this one.  He seemed less than Andy and the personalization that made me care about him wasn't there.  It's bad when you hope the main character gets blown away out of boredom.  If I had to hand out a grade it would be REWRITE this one kid.  There is a great plot in there, it just can't survive under the bad novel.<br />I have edited this to add my honest gut reaction into the third chapter was \\"Did they change or get a ghostwriter?\\"	2003-07-26
US	35564158	R32EOBGYR059RA	0345413903	521290095	The Murder Book (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Change in style	Kellerman has indeed as others have said changed his style in this book.  It was the first I have read in his series and interested me enough to encourage me to purchase the rest. I am now a fan. <br />It is not an easy read. The style requires an awareness that the others did not.  The jumps between the killer [few, short and spare with a change in style and no indication of who is &quot;talking&quot;]and Alex and Milo were confusing to my other half who read it and hated it. I picked up on it immediately.<br />Why I like it and recommend it?<BR>I have a background in psychology... Forensic psychology to be exact. I find the earlier ones too simple. It is not for the average reader. However it is much closer to the &quot;real&quot; thing than most books. It requires you to engage your brain. There are style problems however it is well worth the read for those looking for a taste of reality. I related to it immediately. My other half who has never worked in psych and forensic psych hated it while he loves the earlier novels. He found it hard to understand and relate to.<br />It all depends what you are looking for. Not for the average reader but fantastic if you love the psych aspects of his novels.	2003-06-21
US	35564158	R14EUJNFEH2G61	067101420X	730430702	Forever... : A Novel of Good and Evil, Love and Hope (Forever Trilogy)	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Rush ending	I am a great fan of Jude Deveraux's.  I love the Montgomery books and most leave me wanting more however this one didn't.  There were several times when the change in setting and focus left me saying &quot;WHAT?&quot; and I had to reread to figure out who was where and what was happening. [I should only have to do this if I put the book down for a long time and a these books are a two hour read for me.] What happened to Montgomery's parents was very out of the family story line so I had a very hard time with belief now if it had been her parents and Montgomery was the one with the sight then well...   The ending was very bad.  I felt as if the author lost interest [or the editor was screaming shorter shorter] near the end so it was a slapped condensed version of what should have been much much better.  Instead it left me with a he said then she said feeling. The book left me sorry I didn't pick it up at a library book sale for a quarter. Advice get it from the library if you feel you must read it.	2002-12-17
