US	35621205	R12YRIA4GLFU6F	0192835823	464038527	The Gallic War (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	10	36	N	N	Translating Snegg	I was privileged to read the review in the original Latin (directly from the original Amazon's mouth) and there were numerous errors in translation of this controversial work. \\"Catapult\\" is a pumice-like substance Romans used as litter in their feline pet's \\"bathrooms.\\" A ballista is a large sausage made from bundles (fasces) of shredded pork. Caesar actually ran away from the battle in question but he ran backward (baculus)--hence the confusion. \\"Speculatoria navigia\\" are Roman reading glasses used to navigate Pliny. \\"Levitas\\" is what's sometimes needed to keep our buns from burning. <br /> <br />As far as translations go, this one reads a lot better for me than the original written in a language I can't understand.	2005-10-03
US	35621205	R3226N39YCPAN6	1571743774	400677957	The Phoenix Lights	Books	5	53	57	N	N	Excellent--a recommendation	This is a fine book and there's no disputing the sincerity of the author or her commitment to the truth. I suggest, though, that individuals interested in this event(s) also examine other books and look at additional items, like the Peter Jennings special, to get a sense of the odd ebb and flow of information on this subject. That program--the segment on the Phoenix Lights in particular--deserves some analysis; it was structured rather interestingly. Find a sharp friend with experience in advertising, psychology, or marketing to watch it with you.    People clearly saw something unusual that night (and at other times) and it certainly seemed like the unusual phenomenon went out of its way, so to say, to be seen. That may be the most important element--it was designed to be seen and to be discussed. Plenty of people were out comet-watching; an audience was guaranteed. (Curiously, a lot can go on in the sky right over the heads of urban populations and no one will see a thing--few actually look up. I've seen crowds in broad daylight not see the Goodyear Blimp pass right over their heads--if they couldn't hear it--and other things). Strange isolated lights alone will seldom attract the eye but patterns of lights almost always will. That can be done with lights attached to some rigid structure, lights in coordinated and controlled formation, and lights simply dropped in a rough pattern. It would seem that all three phenomenon--all the possible permutations--happened. Hm.    Again, all media information on the Phoenix Lights is useful as it helps to sort the wheat from the chaff. Oh, for the curious I strongly recommend you look at other titles from Hampton Roads Publishing Company that are not obviously flaky and New Age.    [If you ask me, there was nothing ET about anything that happened that night, but a lot of people absolutely did see something huge and extraordinary. Now, what're the biggest danged things that ever sailed the skies?]	2005-10-03
US	35621205	REVDNZ13WY7Y6	0801856612	703718626	Pompeii: An Architectural History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Scholarly	An essential book for learning about the architecture of Pompeii. This is intended to be a scholarly work for people with a serious interest in the subject. It hardly deserves two stars because it's not written in the style of a comic book. Grown-ups, mature lay-readers, and professionals will want to add this to their collections.	2005-10-02
US	35621205	R2645LD0F9OXV4	0674689674	13748384	Pompeii: Public and Private Life (Revealing Antiquity)	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Excellent book	This is about as fine a book as you will find on this subject. <br />I enjoyed reading it immensely.  <br /> <br />Out of respect for the author's hard and dedicated work I encourage you to vote the jackass one-star review below by \\"Jeromiah Cox\\" as \\"Inappropriate\\" so that it can be removed.	2005-10-02
US	35621205	R2MG7B0LTB10FP	0679423087	620361333	1-2-3: The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire: Volumes 1-3 of 6 (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	90	108	N	Y	Suck it up and read the whole thing, dammit.	Typical Twenty-first Century hubris, suggesting that this work should be read in the bite-sized edition and should not be seen as valid or even potential historical analysis. Gibbon was commenting on his time (not that far from our time and the same intellectual environment that produced this country) as much as Roman times and making splendid observations about various dangers that lurked within any organized society.<br /><br />Gibbon comments at length, for example, on how the early Emperors shunned ostentatious display in order to present the illusion of a still-functioning Republic. The Emperors had so much power (he notes, and I roughly paraphrase) that they did not have to show it off. Sounds a bit like the American Presidency, doesn't it? The most powerful man in the world in a jogging suit? George W. Bush, member of a wealthy ruling elite, pretending to be a \\"regular Joe\\" and flimflamming half a nation? Personally I prefered wealthy patrician Presidents--they were at least honest about themselves and, as obliged members of a certain class, were expected to meet certain high standards of behavior and intellect. Both Hitler and Stalin were \\"of the people\\" (and startlingly like some of the worst Emperors described in Gibbon!)<br /><br />In fact much of this 300-year-old gloss on 2000-year-old-goings-on echos the current crisis of the West. Read in this light, this can be an uncomfortable, vaguely dangerous, and politically incorrect book. It explains why Western intellectuals up until relatively recently--all familiar with Gibbon--tended to agree on a lot of basics. Today, people of both the Left and the Right have lost sight of too many of the essentials of freedom and liberty. Gibbon, again, notes how the Empire reached a point where contending sides on any issue weren't debating Liberty versus Empire but simply how the Empire should be administered. Gibbon also makes some interesting observations on how a large, but not overwhelming, military can dominate and control an exceptionally large population; also how a standing army can begin to control the leadership. This isn't banana republic stuff, it's commentary on the pitfalls of Great Republics. His books are stuffed to the gills with this sort of wisdom. Why would you avoid any of it?<br /><br />Allow me to be insulting: I'm not thrilled with the, again, contemporary predilection toward being patronizing to older Western standard texts. Gibbon was verbose for a reason; this was no modern marketing scheme to entice you to buy volumes you didn't really need. Read all of Gibbon, read it critically, but also read it with humility. Remember that better, more active, and more lucid minds than ours encountered these books and were highly impressed. In the last decades I've watched, horrified, as midgets and munchkins passed vicious judgement on the Western canon. Gibbon comments on that phenomenon too, how the little and often nasty minds--the sort similar to the co-conspirators Shakespeare surrounded Brutus with--eventually gain sway. Western Culture has been hauled down not by sophisticated minds with better to offer but by the jealous and rage-filled, by the greedy, by religious ignoramuses (few excluded), by the mindless mob. No wonder we've been losing our way as a culture.<br /><br />Finally, the book is written in English, uses few if any words not in the contemporary lexicon, and maintains other accepted standards of syntax. This is not a \\"tough read\\" unless you've been raised on milk-soaked bread. In fact if you've managed your way through some of those hideously written jargon riddled texts required in most college courses, modern French philosophers, or somebody like Adorno, then you'll find Gibbon a master of clarity and an utter delight. How anybody in this age of jibberish, buzzwords, and portentious intellectual tripe can complain about the style of this book is a mystery to me! I have little pity for those who stumble and fall off the road whenever they hita subordinate clause, inverted word order, or a lengthy sentence.<br /><br />So, read this in full. It's a terrific read. Read Tocqueville, read the Federalist Papers, stop whining about the electoral college and instead find out why it exists. Sit down sometime and try to understand the political reasoning behind the American Civil War, not just the video-game level intellectuality of the feud between the slave-holders and abolitionists. Essentially stop trying to turn History into a one-volume \\"History for Idiots\\" manual before forming rock-solid opinions on major issues. You might surprise yourself, you might help prevent a distant future Gibbon from writing unkind words about all of us.word order, or a lengthy sentence.     So, read this in full. It's a terrific read. Read Tocqueville, read the Federalist Papers, stop whining about the electoral college and instead find out why it exists. Sit down sometime and try to understand the political reasoning behind the American Civil War, not just the video-game level intellectuality of the feud between the slave-holders and abolitionists. Essentially stop trying to turn History into a one-volume \\"History for Idiots\\" manual before forming rock-solid opinions on major issues. You might surprise yourself, you might help prevent a distant future Gibbon from writing unkind words about all of us.	2005-09-30
US	35621205	R3BN5K7ID09ABL	0684848139	904113998	The THREAT: Revealing the Secret Alien Agenda	Books	5	11	32	N	N	Huh? (and an attempt at being helpful)	I didn't so much as read this book as kind of skim through it. It was all too predictable and too sensationalist. <br /> <br />OK, this is where I'm at. If the aliens need us to breed, and I find this highly suspect since such an advanced race can sure as hell play with DNA strands like we play with pop-it beads, then, if they're so danged highly advanced, why can't they mess with us without so much as smudging our make-up? Also, why let us develop any decent technology, why not keep us in Medieval ignorance? <br /> <br />Ultimately, we've got aliens who are either nincompoops or sadists. Ultimately we've got another \\"demon\\" mythology going here, which is what plenty already think. <br /> <br />I don't deny the validity of the \\"abduction experience,\\" but I also don't deny people channeling, seeing ghosts, encountering poltergeists, and all the other whatnot. There are hard questions to ask here about the nature of reality more than anything else. Seriously, I think an abduction victim should seek out help with some Eastern mystic or a shaman, people who may be able to assist them in seeing the inner significance of their experience. (and also give them some genuine hope). There are an infinite number of universes out there and sometimes we stray into some of the lousy ones.	2005-09-27
US	35621205	R3GVZHBFUAQY6N	1568985312	282545307	Colani: The Art of Shaping the Future	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Perfect	It's a pity the cover of this book shows one of Colani's sports cars. It's great and all but it's easily the least interesting thing he's done. What would have been better would have been the gigantic flying boat that looks like a swan or the astonishing--almost erotic--concept airliner for the Japanese airline with four petal-shaped wings and an indescribable fuselage. Then there's the wonderfully bizarre railway locomotive. Colani's designs are among the most radical and imaginative...and beautiful...ever. <br /> <br />What's strange is that he isn't better known and that this is really the first book to cover his work with any thoroughness. Colani is inspired by natural biological forms. To him nature is infinitely complex, provides infinite solutions, and has barely been tapped as a pragmatic design source by man. Nothing superficial--no mere mimicry--he points out the multifunctionality of many of these complex forms he adopts. He also points the way to a future design world that lives and breathes with the natural world. Designers of Green architecture are just now barely intersecting with his vision. More importantly, Colani insists that the right solutions, the healthy solutions, will invariably (as in nature) be beautiful. Too many ecologically-minded designers seem to wear the hair shirt and demand that of others too. <br /> <br />This book should appeal to those who feel technology is not some dysfunctional thing but a yearning to consciously merge with nature. It should appeal to those who love the most outlandish design work. It should appeal to sensualists and lovers of beautiful objects.  <br /> <br />I can't imagine being interested in design and not owning this wonderful, beautifully illustrated, well-written, and comprehensive book on perhaps the most visionary designer of the last century. Colani's work makes virtually every other attempt at design look wooden and two-dimensional. History (and we) will eventually catch up with this man.	2005-09-27
US	35621205	R30W671T2KOTAJ	0061006629	388121391	Fatherland	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Deeper than it looks	Odd that so many present this as an alternate history novel where the Nazis \\"win the war.\\" In fact, they just win the war in Europe and the US wins the war with Japan and then the situation turns into a post-war Cold War not unlike the one we experienced with the Soviet Union. What Harris seems to be doing in this thoroughly remarkable book is trying to make the reader re-think received knowledge about the events since 1941. We were allied with Stalin--a man just about as much of a monster as Hitler who, according to reliable figures, may have actually been responsible for more deaths and about as much horror. After the war, as we continued to (rightly) demonize the Nazis we eventually moved toward conciliation with the Soviets and then the Communist Chinese. Many of our leftists were all too ready to forgive and forget Soviet genocide and death camps. Harris's book, read expansively, causes us to wonder a bit about all that. In a slightly different (and not unlikely) world would we have eventually cozied up to the Third Reich and Greater Germany? How would the Holocaust have played out during this? In the great theater of international power politics would it have even mattered decades later? The book abounds with details that create endless questions about our culture--Nazi Britain still manages to produce the Beatles, \\"President Kennedy\\" is not who you think, and so on. Disturbing food for thought, much as his more recent \\"Pompeii\\" is provocative. I'm starting to think Robert Harris is a much deeper writer than we've allowed ourselves to think--subversive almost.	2005-09-24
US	35621205	RUWBIM4OND8GC	1902002164	74030128	The Iron Dream	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Kick in the pants	This book should remain in print and it's sad it hasn't. Simply, it helps point out how so much of our culture--like the whole Lord of the Rings schtick--is easily transmuted into Nazi ideology. This was a brave and brilliant book. <br /> <br />I'm sorry one reviewer was annoyed by the wooden writing. It is meant to be a parody of that kind of stuff, and the kind of mentality that goes behind it. Far too much older science fiction reads like this.	2005-09-24
US	35621205	R2VZPCW9BJ6WNY	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Chinatown Rex	This seemed less a historical novel to me than a rather scathing critique of our own times. At the end Harris even makes some strange and cryptic comments on the goings-on of these days, including an odd thought about \\"global warming.\\" (no, not at all the predictable global warming comment). If it is all a metaphor for the current Zeitgeist then what Harris has to say may not make a lot of people happy. <br /> <br />The favorable straight-up reviews are solid and those seeking a fast-paced and well-written historical novel should grab this. However, if you're the sort who likes books that may be more than what they seem (you know who you are) then i think you'll like this a lot.	2005-09-24
US	35621205	RGDN7ANHSOB1F	1883319587	488239602	Mars: The Living Planet	Books	3	1	3	N	N	It's all just too odd	This whole life on Mars controversy, with this book being just one example, is so thoroughly weird that it actually makes me just a bit suspicious. How could a book get such wildly varying reviews with one alleged authoritative science type saying this is great stuff and another (no less than a former NASA employee) claiming it's total BS and a slam against NASA? It's all so silly, couldn't these experiments be repeated and if they can't why not? Is this guy a scientist who can write a coherent scientific paper or not? Are there questions that need resolving or not?    What makes me suspicious is this:     What if solid evidence for life elsewhere is uncovered? Do we, John and Jane Q. Public, get the story, straight? How do religious fundamentalists and various other kooks react to this news that their deity, or maybe his opposite, was busy elsewhere? What happens when it REALLY SINKS IN what this all means? (What it means is that the once-friendly and comforting night sky slowly becomes a wide-open doorway to the unknown, intelligent life elsewhere becomes a near certainty, curiosity may turn to fear and horror, etc. etc.). Well, they don't know until they make the announcement, do they, so why not sort-of make the announcement now and then to see what happens, maybe to acclimate folks to the idea.     This book and all the circumstances surrounding it are suspicious. What responsible scientist would announce that Martian life has been discovered in a meteorite fragment unless they were 100% certain? Why do we keep getting green lights that invariably switch to red or yellow? Why is eveidence for so many things almost always just barely out of reach?    This is an interesting book but I trust it about as far as I could throw it and not for the reasons many critics offer. I'm seeing too many books like this recently, books about controversial things by people with \\"credentials.\\" If there isn't something a tad conspiratorial about it all then we've got some serious problem with our modern credential-ling process and that's scarier than finding out Mars has bugs.	2005-09-13
US	35621205	R1UTF0YNMERBV4	0801853990	91440810	Yesterday's Tomorrows: Past Visions of the American Future	Books	3	33	34	N	N	Fun but not enough	I agree with the reviewer below. It's one of the few books on this subject (I've only seen one other) so we have to live with it. On the other hand it's small, it's a bit scattered in its approach, and it feels like a museum gift-shop item/show catalogue of sorts. I would like to see someday a huge, profusely illustrated, and text-rich book on the complete history of portraying the future (positively) which is an historically recent phenomenon. It died probably around the time of the '64 World's Fair and depictions of the future since then have been largely dystopian. Nowadays they're downright awful. This is something we need to address because unless you can conjure up imagery of an upbeat future you're not likely to even try to create one. This book made me miss the days when people thought more positively and hopefully about many things, regardless of how bad it was at the time. Imagine the images in the mind of the average contemporary young person of the \\"World of 2050.\\"	2005-09-05
US	35621205	R61LU1V7AO5Q5	0785261532	346274068	Triangle of Death: The Shocking Truth About the Role of South Vietnam and the French Mafia in the Assassination of JFK	Books	4	8	12	N	N	We all knew the French did it	Plenty of interesting ideas and some new takes on old information but otherwise a very badly written book in serious need of editing and counseling. Material is repeated and re-examined endlessly throughout the book giving the impression the authors initially finished at 88 pages and realized they desperately needed to pad the thing to get it published. <br /> <br />I'm still stuck on \\"Mortal Error\\"--the book that gives a whole different take on part of the assassination, that the last shot was an accident. That book, right or wrong, has very interesting explanations of a lot of material and the author is a ballistics expert. <br /> <br />The Kennedy Assassination was not an isolated event--as the public and even conspiracy theorists like to view it--but a \\"systems\\" event of astonishing complexity. This book, despite its huge flaws, is one of the best to tap into that mentality. There explanations of French politics of those years in regard to Algeria and Viet Nam and subsequently the assassination are cogent. I just think a systems approach was a bit beyond the authors. <br /> <br />We need to understand, especially today, that an assassin, or anyone else, can be a terrorist, a double-agent, a patriot, a mobster, a politician, a drug dealer, a compassionate and loving parent, and a number of other things somewhat simultaneously. There is a front office world and a deep dark back office world and unfortunately that back office world, especially since WWII, is really what's now driving the modern world. One can find a straightforward conspiracy or two behind Lincoln's assassination or simple motives behind Garfield's or McKinley's but Kennedy's will always be elusive. It gnaws at us, whether we realize it or not, because it was the first major global event to publicly, even if for a few moments, reveal the workings of that hidden world.  <br /> <br />The assassination did not go off as planned. As the authors state, Officer Tippet was certainly supposed to have killed Oswald and Oswald would have been yet another kook killer in the history books. Case closed. Jack Ruby was pure desperation and subliminally we all caught that. That single moment in the basement was the point of ignition for doubt. It looked and smelled so wrong. If the last shot was also a dumb mistake then this one probably had even the insiders panicked for a few days until the information got sorted out. No triangulation--one shooter, one patsy.  <br /> <br />Don't blame the Warren Commission--all nice guys who weren't about to rock the boat. They looked at all the info, realized what it meant, and did the best PR patch job they could. Nobody had to say boo to them, they just all had to be individuals who knew how the system worked, not even active participants in that system. What was to be gained by the truth? Nothing but disruption, nothing but wearing on the nerves of a lot of content and sleeping people. What was to be gained by letting Kennedy live? Less than nothing--the man was a major liability on too many fronts alive and a major asset to too many people--even his own party--dead. This wasn't about anti-communism or oil or even heroin, as the authors speculate. All that is linear-think. This was about the maintainence of a smoothly functioning global system.	2005-09-05
US	35621205	R2HMXJGNEN2PNJ	0312080743	588929582	Mortal Error: The Shot That Killed JFK, A ballistics expert's astonishing discovery of the fatal bullet that Oswald did not fire	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Snipe Hunt	It's funny how people try to figure things out sometimes and assume wrongly that a \\"plot,\\" like in a work of fiction, is in operation and there'll be a conclusion. They never assume that things just \\"dork-up.\\" <br /> <br />The Kennedy Assassination had two major \\"dork-ups\\" with a possiblity of a third. Given the magnitude of the event this is hardly surprising. Oswald was supposed to have died early on and the last shot, as this book outlines, may have been fired mistakenly by a Secret Service agent. The third dork-up may have been that the last shot fired by an honest-to-gosh assassin may not have been fatal and then we might have seen a triangulated shot from elsewhere (and that would have been very obvious on the Zapruder film). Better proof of a conspiracy would have existed. <br /> <br />One can imagine the panic in Dealy Plaza among the hit team when this shot came out of nowhere. Thoughts of a frame-up might have run through their heads and their response may not have been rational. Ditto for the backers. Sad that we'll probably never know the inside story. <br /> <br />This is a great book and might well be one of the real standouts in the analysis of the entire event. If nothing else, the author squares up a few problems with the Warren Commission evidence. A must read.	2005-09-05
US	35621205	R1OMS8SKJXEXCR	0595241220	684069507	The Origin Map: Discovery of a Prehistoric, Megalithic, Astrophysical Map and Sculpture of the Universe	Books	5	40	60	N	N	Essential but with problems	How strange that a book of this importance should come from a small, print-on-demand press. It's pretty much the same with \\"Hamlet's Mill\\" mentioned in another review--another well-researched eye opener that few seem to read. <br /> <br />Quite simply, this book is extraordinary and should be read by anyone interested in archeology and anthropology. <br /> <br />On the other hand, despite his awesome credentials, the author diluted this book by having had John Anthony West write an introduction. Mr. West is a swell guy but his longtime association with the fringe and New Age pyramid set gives his presence here a corrosive quality. He wrote a book titled \\"The Case for Astrology.\\" Worse, Brophy has authored another book that steers directly into New Age turf. Few tenured professors (and even fewer hoping for tenure) of Archeology will leave a copy of this book sitting on their desks for all to see. In fact they'll be frightened to death of it.  <br /> <br />I know these sorts of folks, have great discussions with them, and ask them why we can't simply look at the possibilities of the past without dragging metaphysics into it. This stuff will always sit on the fringes as long as that happens. <br /> <br />However, the problem is so persistent (even Charles Hapgood, a former Military Intelligence guy, went woo-woo at the end of his career--authoring \\"Voices of Spirit\\") that I'm lately wondering if it isn't intentional. Take the recent book \\"The Hunt for Zero Point\\"-- a remarkable exploration of possible anti-gravity and exotic energy technology by an editor of Janes Publications--who is also a specialist in high-end military aircraft. The book is largely excellent and then, at the end, there's a totally gratuitous and jaw-droppingly flakey chapter about some bizarre Canadian psychic. There are a few other singularly odd moments scattered through the book including an odd \\"reverie\\" that plants the idea in the reader that exploring the topic at hand could be deadly for them. The result is that the reasonable content, for the critical reader, is thoroughly wrecked...and for no reason as these \\"extras\\" added nothing to his material! <br /> <br />So, we find this wrecking going on to some degree in the UFO field (which may be a sort of mega-wrecking machine anyway--no one who spots anything unusual in the skies is taken seriously any more) but almost always in anything about Black technologies (every book on Tesla is rife with wild speculation and goofy anecdotes), ancient civilizations (Atlantis), and ancient catastrophes. All the information is suspect but the common factor is what I'll call a \\"Strange Attractor,\\" a ghostly presence touching a certain set of subjects and making absolutely sure that no books on these topics will ever be taken seriously by real scientists or thoughtful mainstream readers. The best one can hope for is to get a \\"sense\\" that something's up, that something's behind the curtain.  <br /> <br />What's equally odd is the number of these more substantial authors--from this one, to Hapgood, to many others--who have fairly direct connections to governments, the military, or to intelligence organizations. For those believing in some vast government X-files conspiracy this only makes the material in their books more disreputable. Basically, if this indeed was a huge disinformation operation it's incredibly bullet-proof and utterly brilliant. A wild guess would be that a small number of subjects are profoundly important, critical even, and no information about them can be trusted because all of it is directly or indirectly controlled. Why evidence of sophisticated ancient civilizations is water worth muddying is beyond me but certainly worth a lot of thought! <br />	2005-08-22
US	35621205	R1FI0STEAJ0T34	0932813763	742421705	Mystery in Acambaro: Did Dinosaurs Survive Until Recently?	Books	2	7	25	N	N	Oddball book	\\"Maps of the Ancient Sea Kings\\" is great but it's dragged down into the silt by other not-so-great books like these by Hapgood. Not much to say here other than there's a big pile of pottery (not terribly well-done pottery either) showing poorly delineated things that resemble dinosaurs of the 1950's era kid's plastic toy variety.    What bugs me about all the fringe and New Age baloney is this: why not combine interests? Couldn't these images of dinosaurs have been channeled to some ancient potter or maybe he or she saw them while remote viewing the past? Maybe aliens abducted and transported the maker to a planet where dinosaur-like things still rule? Perhaps dinosaurs were more intelligent than we imagine and they made these things themselves, millions of years before man appeared?    I'm not being ironic here. In this realm, once we've demonstrated to our satisfaction that time and space are illusions, that the universe is stuffed full with unworldly beings--magical and advanced-technical--that the past had insanely advanced civilizations that dabbled in the mystic arts, and so on, then why in hell's name hold to ANY sort of scientific method; why drag a kicking and screaming Lady Logic and Lord Reason into Fairyland? With this in mind there are 1000 different ways these objects could have materialized without having had dinosaurs live into historic times. I hate it when people don't work out the implications of their own sloppy theorizing.	2005-08-22
US	35621205	RVX99XFR5O983	0897331818	833281602	Mrs O Leary S Comet	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Oddly ignored	It's strange this book doesn't get more attention. The author has compiled an astonishing amount of evidence, some corroborated recently by an astronomer who was trying to figure out the whereabouts of a fragment that broke away from a comet, indicating that this fragment broke up in the atmosphere over the Great Lakes some years ago and not only triggered and aided the Chicago fire but started a few other major fires in the region that night. Bluntly, if the author ISN'T right there's still plenty of eyewitness reporting from all the fires and testimony from Chicago firefighters that just doesn't jibe with a normal set of fires. Something very weird happened.    For a dopey seeming little book sitting on the fringes of Amazonland the implications of all this are tremendous. Impacts are not the only possible problem; tons of methane (without any impact)can just suddenly drop down from the sky smothering many (one town had multiple deaths not caused by fire or smoke inhalation) and causing fires that are nearly impossible to control--as if we don't have enough to worry about anyway!    I just have to add that if you don't want to pay 9 bucks for this little book you can look at alternatives listed here and get it from the UK for twice the amount or \\"delivered by courier\\" for nearly four times what Amazon's asking (?!)	2005-08-21
US	35621205	R2B6P2TG6QL1MX	0938864211	905167846	Benchley at the Theatre: Dramatic Criticism, 1920-1940	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Oh, Please Buy This	[...] It's a collection of theater reviews by Robert Benchley--that much is obvious. Most of the reviews (oh, let's say ALL of the reviews) are from the Golden Age of American Theater. With our current historical amnesia that could be an epoch situated anywhere from between 1066 AD (the year of the founding of our nation by President Paul Bunyon and General \\"Johnny\\" Appleseed) to the present time.<br /><br />What isn't obvious is that Benchley is a very rare bird: a first-class writer with a first-class sense of humor. Since his writing is from a few years back and he makes frequent mention of steam trains (A jacuzzi service once provided by Amtrak), Al Smith (The Smith brother on the left side of the cough drop box), and bootleggers (Thigh-highs favored by Twiggy), he is too easily dismissed as a \\"horse and buggy\\" writer with little relevance to our modern sophisticated culture. In fact, he's about as timeless as Mark Twain--a currently fading great--and he writes about as well. He's also funnier and has better judgement than that American Icon. Robert Benchley would never have written \\"Innocents Abroad.\\"<br /><br />The point of all this is if you've come here looking for MORE Benchley you don't need me or any other reviews. This is \\"more Benchley\\" and you're fully aware of what that means. Have fun. If you're here for other reasons or you just stumbled across this page while doing an Internet search for something else--\\"Theater Benches\\" perhaps--then here's your big chance to recover lost gold. If you're 21 years old, ended up here because you passed out on the keyboard, and lack the attention span to get through an Ogdon Nash poem without medication, then just move on and be cheered by the fact that the future is yours.<br /><br />Additionally, if you're a foreigner and you've ended up on this page (probably due to a missed flight) I strongly encourage you to buy this book and sample the wonder that once was, and maybe still could yet be again, American Culture. No halfway intelligent outlander could rummage through a collection of this type and come away sincerely describing the US as a \\"Great Satan.\\" Stuff like this, unlike Dick Cheney or Andrea Dworkin, does not come from Hell.<br /><br />A final heartbreak: I bought a nearly mint used copy through a dealer listed here and only paid about 3 bucks for it. When it arrived it had another discount sticker still on it. This wonderful and deeply funny book was sitting around some shop marked ONE DOLLAR! I imagine there was some awful point toward the hind end of the Roman Empire when collections of, say, Cicero's speeches were languishing un-bid upon on Ebay (They called it Ebus back then) for [...]outlander could rummage through a collection of this type and come away sincerely describing the US as a \\"Great Satan.\\" Stuff like this, unlike Dick Cheney or Andrea Dworkin, does not come from Hell.    A final heartbreak: I bought a nearly mint used copy through a dealer listed here and only paid about 3 bucks for it. When it arrived it had another discount sticker still on it. This wonderful and deeply funny book was sitting around some shop marked ONE DOLLAR! I imagine there was some awful point toward the hind end of the Roman Empire when collections of, say, Cicero's speeches were languishing un-bid upon on Ebay (They called it Ebus back then) for [...]	2005-08-19
US	35621205	RCKR7VAIGK7ZM	019509431X	369592765	The Scars of Evolution	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Learning other things about human evolution	Somebody way down below calls this conjecture. I believe that conjecture, with a bit of evidence and an overall sense of coherence and matching with known facts amounts to what's known as THEORY. <br /> <br />There's a lot of revolutionary activity out there in the sciences and humanities because a lot of the conventional ideas about just about everything just aren't holding much water these days. Egyptologists, for example, confronted with a growing pile of abnormalities and inconsistencies are looking like plain old idiots. No straight-laced anthropologist seems to have anything sensible to say about the spread of humans through the so-called New World. Lynn Margulis is asking tough questions about why DNA is present in places where it shouldn't be and the establishment is clucking like chickens. An astronomer from the Naval Observatory named Van Flandern thinks he has terrific evidence (orbital equations and such) indicating a planet just flat out blew up years ago and he's treated like some kook. Charles Hapgood, too many years ago, found old maps that pre-dated Columbus showing the New World and Antarctica--some of them are more accurate than maps of Columbus's time--and he's still a fringe character. One old map of Antarctica shows it without the ice. We didn't know what was under the ice until the 1950s and it matched this map abit too well. <br /> <br />Richard Ellis, in his book \\"Aquagenesis\\" talks about Elaine Morgan's work favorably. He mentions that when he confronts nearly any disapproving scientist he or she can't come up with any reasons why her theory could be wrong. Note how short the \\"conjecture\\" review is. It's always like that with these good new and radical theories, that or ad hominum arguments (I came across some of those regarding Margulis). When you have nothing well-reasoned to say, assume a haughty air and just dismiss things. That isn't a review, it's an emission of gas. <br /> <br />Folks, this is going to get worse, not better. With theinsane emphasis on specialization currently in vogue we're raising generations of pinpoint specific scientists and thinkers--few generalists concerned with truth and the big picture and all--who will continuously be choosing between the quest for knowledge and the quest for tenure and pensions. If you've spent your entire professional career learning One Big Thing and that thing is being challenged just where does that leave you? Look at all the Harvard MBAs out there who, because they have an MBA from Harvard, can never be wrong. Look at someone like Marvin Minsky who's spent his entire career getting money and attention for saying that the human brain is simple wiring and circuits and consciousness can be designed like a car stereo system. There's plenty of evidence to the contrary (read Roger Penrose) but is Minsky ever going to change his tune and subsequently lose his cash cow? No way. This is about placement and branding too. <br /> <br />Elaine Morgan isn't engaged in a battle of ideas, she's engaged in a cultural and economic battle. Her rightness or wrongness was never the issue, she's rocking the boat--a boat filled with a lot of very comfortable and lazy academics who are enjoying their sabbaticals, their wine and cheese get-togethers, their affairs with students, and their ever-growing lists of publications, and really have no incentive, and plenty of negative incentive, to review any substantial new idea. They look at Elaine Morgan's work and ask, consciously or unconsciously, \\"What's in it for me?\\" or \\"How could I possibly advance my own career by endorsing this?\\" Cowards. <br /> <br />What is missing almost completely in the academic world is intellectual curiosity, a passion for truth and knowledge, and a sense of wonder about the world. Gone are the days of Richard Feynman types getting gaga over a new idea or a new insight. The big deal now is information and number crunching--cheaper and faster ways of doing the same old thing--and have you seenany genuinely new ideas, some dazzling synergy or intellectual leap, come from this crowd in the last few decades? Hardly. Then toss in all the Politically Correct types in the humanities--the most narrow-minded pack of dogmatists since the Inquisition. Try presenting a new spin on things with that crowd! Walk into a classroom and present evidence that differs with anything being taught in, for just one example, a modern Women's Studies course (I know a young gal who dared to disagree with her feminist prof and was nearly thrown out of the classroom). They will only accept more evidence in support of their beliefs.   <br /> <br />	2005-08-18
US	35621205	R38656N7OOQ5BT	1566635640	299432445	Understanding Anti-Americanism: Its Orgins and Impact at Home and Abroad	Books	5	106	118	N	N	A much needed other view	I just happen to live in the same community as the author although I don't know him personally. One can listen and read all the theory and opinion of the Left about world issues but all one really needs to do is immerse oneself in a \\"People's Republic\\" college atmosphere to get a true understanding of the real thinking behind the rhetoric. Did I say thinking? What we have confronting us here is an immense tautology: Americans who have made up their minds that their country, its history, its people, are bad, who only accept information that confirms this point of view, and who immediately invalidate any contrary evidence. The amount of historical ignorance in this college community is astonishing. My \\"favorite\\" comment, by a graduate of Smith College no less--typical of what one can hear on the streets or in a coffee shop daily--was \\"We dropped the bomb on Hiroshima AFTER the Japanese surrendered.\\" Too many people here unthinkingly believe these sorts of lies and distortions, and this is a grotesque example. Imagine the thinking that goes on regarding complex and subtle issues    Another Smith grad, almost in tears, admitted to me that after six years of private school and four years at one of our most prestigious women's colleges she knew absolutely nothing about history. Oh, she knew plenty about women's issues and imperialism and gender theory and racism but when I gave her a book on the general history of this century she was shocked over, for example, Woodrow Wilson's attempts to create a permanent peace and a League of Nations. You see, she'd been taught that the whole history of history, the \\"white male patriarchy,\\" was one of non-stop oppression and exploitation. She was also amazed that Teddy Roosevelt worked in partnership with his wife and didn't keep her barefoot and in the kitchen. Take all the ideas she'd been handed in her life and replace most of the key white male terms with \\"Jew\\" and she was as well indoctrinated for hate and genocide as any HitlerYouth ever had been. Even she was finally disgusted with talk among her classmates--talk most emphatically not discouraged by the school--of certain classes not being worth taking because they were all about \\"dead white males.\\"     I'm not a Conservative, in fact my sympathies are with old-fashioned Progressives, Populists and Liberals, but over the years, hearing one hateful, irrational, and horrifying thing after another emerge from the mouths of self proclaimed Leftists, and revolutionaries, hearing \\"ecology\\" advocates talk excitedly of the need to eliminate the human race so the planet can survive, and listening to feminists projecting their rage about family and personal troubles on half the planet, I have learned to utterly despise the American Left. What's deeply troubling is most of these people I've encountered come from comfortable upper-middle class backgrounds, some finance their political exploits with trust fund money, most, if not all, have no direct experience with want or oppression, at least of the kind they protest about. They travel to Palestine or Central America for a week or two-in ironic parodies of the old Grand Tour---and return as world-class experts on the downtrodden. They spend time only with sympathizers, seldom engage in any self-criticism, and have well-constructed rationalizations to deflect any external criticism: a famous feminist one being \\"logic is a male construct.\\" Their teachers, often as not, are venom-filled America-haters from the Viet Nam era. It's just appalling.    Additional proof that this indignation, this moral outrage, this alleged caring for people, is thoroughly suspect is the complete lack of concern shown in communities like this whenever the foreign Anti-American side engages in their own atrocities or injustices. Leftists get strangely quiet or become bizarre apologists when confronted with the slaughter of children at Beslan or the car bombing of kids in Baghdad.  The argument is always that this is somehowa valid response to things we do, never that no one should do these things under any circumstances. Two students admitted to me that even they were shocked by the lack of outrage over what happened to 170 kids at Beslan. Leftists were equally close-mouthed years ago when confronted by the numerous atrocities of the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese. You see, principle is not the issue here, it's all about hate and demonization, and it's often from the same people who claim to be on the side of peace and love. Their twisted logic is this: when we screw up it's because we're evil, when the opposition screws up it's also because we're evil.    I'm not thrilled that books like this give ammunition for opposing extremists that I don't care for either, but Hollander's primary points, and the points of his associates, are valid--very valid. From what I've seen close up and from what I've heard from average, decent people from the so-called Red States, I'd argue that the American Left, in the course of its now nearly forty-year-old temper tantrum, its vicious and almost indiscriminate lashing out at anything and everything about American culture, it's perpetual disabling of the Democratic Party, its refusal to compromise or see another's point of view, has succeeded in driving most sensible Americans right into the hands of Republicans and Conservatives. They are the best thing that's ever happened to the Right, a loud and obnoxious group of people forever alienating average and often decent Americans, mainstream Christians, moderates, and patriotic people who believe in American traditions and ideals, with their endless, vicious, hate-drenched accusations. If I were an unscrupulous Right Winger, I'd secretly finance the American Left and I'd fund Ralph Nader--the election spoiler, and the guy who, in the Sixties, helped the oil industry by not only single-handedly postponing the future of the small fuel-efficient car but, by inference, steering people to bigger \\"safe at any speed\\" gas guzzlers. He's also anti-nuclear, isn't he? Has anybody ever asked him why it is that almost everything he does eventually helps the Republicans or the oil interests?    As far as all that foreign hate goes, well I've listened to some reasonable complaints and a mountain of absurd complaints from foreigners. Perceptions of this country overseas, especially among the average folks, are often absolutely ridiculous and I'm not about to blame McDonalds or the movies. Please tell me, somebody, anybody, how a bunch of people living in various spots thousands of miles from the US have such thorough knowledge of my country's history, aspirations, ideals, motivations, foreign policy--especially when many AMERICANS--people who live here, read the papers, see what's going on--have plenty of trouble with all that? Is it a highly informed and worldly Islamic militant who calls us the Great Satan or someone who sees us through a glass very darkly, if at all? And if they aren't really seeing us, just what are they seeing, and, more importantly, what are they projecting on us? How is it so many here can readily demonize our own country's \\"rednecks\\" and \\"yahoos,\\" and our own superstitious medievalists, and not ever think that maybe, just maybe, there are plenty more just like them filling up various other nations of the world, running them in fact, maybe even wanting nuclear weapons? Why are our Fundamentalists bad and other people's Fundamentalists worthy of respect?    No I'm sorry. Mistakes have been made and will continue to be made. Every country and every culture does stupid selfish things, exploits its underdogs, molests its neighbors--takes advantage of opportunities (and this country probably agonizes over this stuff more than most). This idea that there was a pristine idyllic world before the West, and especially the US, turned up and wrecked it all is the single greatest and most dangerous fallacy of modern times. It threatens to trample on those aspects of Western Civilization that offer real hope for decency and justice in the world. We've seen the options: totalitarianism, theocracy, tribalism, and so forth and none offers the maximum amount of freedom and justice to everyone with the least amount of sacrifice of culture and beliefs. What's conservative Islam's answer to world peace? Simple. Everyone converts to Islam and the Koran governs everything. Honestly, that's their worldview. Our answer? A system that actively protects people's right to their own beliefs. What they lose is their right to engage in a system of justice that should be abhorent to the most die-hard cultural relativist. Should. Cultural relativism has made a hash out of this type of thinking by failing to accept that one system can in fact better than another, if--and this is absolutely key--WE'RE TO TAKE THE FATE OF THE WHOLE OF HUMANITY INTO CONSIDERATION. No, we're being scapegoated big time and, in many ways and given the records of every other culture, we deserve it least of all.	2005-08-13
US	35621205	R3V4LHKBPI7PDS	0806126671	791697083	A Righteous Cause: The Life of William Jennings Bryan	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Solid	I agree with the gentleman from Missouri that no writer yet has fully evoked Bryan. This particular book covers his life well but without digging heavily into psychology and I'm fine with that. The film \\"Inherit the Wind\\" made far too much of the fictionalized Bryan's endless talking and eating in some ham-headed attempt to conjure up an oral fixation or something. In the late Fifties to mid-Sixties every socially conscious filmmaker was a psychologist. Today, the same can be said about biographers. <br /> <br />The problem with Bryan, at least in terms of making him into something sensational, was that he was a paragon of virtues from an earlier time, a time when when, well, humility, modesty, temperance, focus, honesty, forgiveness, and a lot of other now-unfamilar and boring concepts were considered virtues. Oh, Bryan was ambitious, and he enjoyed being adored by crowds but it wasn't the ambition of Cheney or the craving for adoration of Clinton, at least not in any dreary sense we'd understand. Bryan made his impact by being Bryan, by speaking to people, by articulating their dreams, by often being an effective politician. He did that so well that up till fairly recently he still had mythic status, a great orator who was still spoken of with some reverance as late as the 1960's (I doubt nowadays 1 in 10,000 would even know the name). <br /> <br />I think ultimately historians have the same problem with Bryan as music biographers have with Franz Joseph Haydn--one of the greatest of all composers but a fairly normal and healthy man whose life lacked wild stories and titilating anecdotes. Personally, I find biographies of people like Haydn and Bryan enjoyable (this book at hand was very refreshing and I've found over the years that virtually everything from the University of Oklahoma Press usually is). It's nice reading about accomplished folks who are fairly normal. It's interesting that Bryan and Roosevelt, two of the giants of that era, both had steady and rewarding marriages with highly intelligent and accomplished women, both had families, both had lives and interests outside of politics. There's a rough definition of \\"healthy\\" lurking in there somewhere.	2005-08-12
US	35621205	RIB1GBRPT463Q	0345324250	589824021	The Zimmermann Telegram	Books	5	6	18	N	N	A Lovely Little Book	The tendency over time (and even while it's happening) is to strip history down to a series of simplistic events and convenient anecdotes. I've never been able to understand why this happens as most people seem to make the heaving and ho-ing of forces and stresses within their own heavily rationalized lives far more complicated than, say, the bewildering complexities that lead up to the start of the Second World War. Listen to any Leftist spout the minimalist canon about Viet Nam or Iraq and then listen to them go on for hours about all the reasons--social, psychological, neurochemical, personal historical--why they can't, for instance, quit smoking. It's loads of fun.    [Author's note: for funsies go on to any Left-winger you know about how Rome and Carthage went to war years ago over oil. They'll grapple for a while with a word they've never heard before (Carthage) but nod eagerly over the oil explanation. Then, to be extra wicked, explain that it was baby oil they fought over and the evil Carthaginians (they treated women and minorities terribly, that's what made them evil) made it from REAL BABIES. Important: make it clear that the Carthaginians were white and patriarchal so you aren't accused of hate speech! If this is done with a straight face and with serious tone it'll be swallowed in one gulp. I know, I've done it]    What the author does here is pull back the curtain a bit on all the machinations and plots surging to and fro in the world prior to WWI. Did you know the Japanese--generally fairly friendly to us--were very interested in establishing a naval base in Mexico? You see we were always their only rivals in the Pacific--that's why the Great White Fleet stopped in by for a visit and a muscle flex. Then there's Kaiser Bill, a guy who idolized our Teddy Roosevelt, plotting away to trip us up and maybe even carve us up. Things like that. After a read of this type one gets a better sense of why the US was so hot-to-trot over an American canal in Panama,why we wanted a base in the Phillipines, and so on. You see, back then, like now, the world was a den of wolves and backstabbers. Between 1900 and 1920 the US could have easily, and without doin' nuthin' much, gone to war with any major or minor power. We nearly went to war with Germany over Venezuela. Gee, I wish it was all as uncomplicated as so many make it out to be.	2005-08-11
US	35621205	RURY1QGZISJSV	0814714951	393836672	America in the Gilded Age: Third Edition	Books	5	38	48	N	N	Excellent	This is the best single volume covering these important yet forgotten years of American history that I've encountered so far. I'm sorry some reviewers found it boring but history, even significant history, is not always made up of superficial, entertaining, titilating, or shocking events. There's something unflatteringly 21st Century American about opinions like that. You shouldn't have a say about any aspect of modern American history unless you understand how it became what it is. There is far too much superficial judgmentalism about American history these days, too much eagerness to dismiss decades of complexity as mere expressions of greed, imperialism, racism, and sexism. To put it bluntly, the past is being rewritten by ignorant and angry moderns with political axes to grind. It's like watching Nazis scornfully rewrite Jewish history so that not even a semblance of decency or honor is left to them. <br /> <br />Reviews of this type, given the effort that went into this book and the obvious intelligence behind it, make me wonder if a few students who maybe got low grades one semester aren't vengefully getting a few cheap shots in. <br /> <br />	2005-08-10
US	35621205	R8K9OHZJ493KX	0805069569	566397493	Warren G. Harding: The American Presidents Series: The 29th President, 1921-1923	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Much needed balanced bio	I'm not sure what got into the creators of this series in picking John Dean to write this book (I sense something charmingly whimsical) but he's an intelligent and well-educated man and he did a fine job. People can argue about his perspectives and conclusions but no author is exempt from that unless, of course, he or she is a Leftist espousing politically correct propaganda or imaginatively rewriting history. <br /> <br />What's interesting is how several negative reviewers have forced, with typical overheated historical dead-horse-beating zeal, relationships between the author Dean, this book, and the Nixon Presidency. I'm not sure I grasp the validity of these connections and it all comes across like some sort of vile ad hominem argument--Nixon was bad, therefore Dean is bad, therefore this book is bad.  <br /> <br />One of the primary difficulties I have with the current American Left is that when allowed to stew in their own juices they end up sounding exactly like Fundamentalist Christians frothing about demons and fumbling childishly with foreign concepts like logic. For every moronic Right Wing kook that says Spongebob is gay, there's a Leftist with--shockingly--advanced degrees from once-proud educational institutions saying equally imbecilic things like \\"all sex is rape\\" or (and this is my favorite) \\"logic is a male construct\\"--the most astoundingly self-destructive tautology ever handed to womenkind. The only real difference between Joe Bible Beater and Joan Multicultural Studies is the Bible Beater spouts Biblical quotes to give an aura of legitimacy to his BS and the politically correct yahoo has a grab bag of academic-sounding jargon to lend credence to her baloney.   <br /> <br />Gosh, I miss old-fashioned Liberals and I even miss old-fashioned Marxists--educated and often cultured people who could argue their points well and believed in the concept of human progress. A Liberal may have critiqued this book intelligently and objectively, but with a solid understanding of the complexities of history. A Leftist nowadays approaches almost any topic in American history with all the joyless homicidal fanaticism of a witch-burner. Witness a few trying to set a match to this book.	2005-08-10
US	35621205	R1EJOY8MKG8GUY	0879232153	547027655	Hamlet's Mill: An Essay Investigating  the Origins of Human Knowledge And Its Transmission Through Myth	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A favorite book	The other reviews go into the details of this book well. I won't rehash all that. It's not an easy read at times and it can be a bit confusing but since I first encountered it I was convinced that this was a major work--better documented than any book that delves into the idea that ancient peoples were no dummies and that world history may not quite be what we think. In fact, I no longer look at a clear night sky quite the same way any more since reading this--the geometric plane that defines our solar system is now far too obvious to me. I often imagine what night skies must have been like 5000 or 10,000 years ago. How could we ever have assumed our ancestors weren't paying close attention and asking hard questions? (Well, actually, that's easy to answer--current humans hardly pay any attention to the night sky, barely any attention to nature as a whole. I'm no tree hugger but this is NOT GOOD) <br /> <br />Unfortunately, (and treat this as a warning) all my friends and not-so-friends that love A&P (Atlantis and Pyramids) material, and who should be much more critical with their reading, never seem to have the patience to get through this book and often don't even have the desire to read it. No levitating monoliths, no alien gene splicers, no global catastrophe...B-O-R-I-N-G. That's probably just as well; this is a book for grown-ups with open and questing minds who have serious interests in archeology, anthropology, technological history, astronomy, and related fields. Highly recommended.	2005-08-08
US	35621205	RAP1VVEMERY66	0684864770	176662108	When Trumpets Call: Theodore Roosevelt After the White House	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Excellent	Roosevelt and his life are, as we have seen, a bit too enormous to be encapsulated in any single volume. He's also a problem for biographers because he himself was probably more intelligent, complex, better read, and a better writer than most who confront him and presume to analyze him. It's not so much a matter of getting \\"into his head\\" as it is that once into such a vast space (irony intended) how does one get his or her bearings. Of course, a backlash is about due anyway. Nobody in this culture can stand hearing about anyone's excellence for long. We like our historical characters down in the mud with us.    His later years were a problem. This book documents that well. However one must leaven the criticisms with the realization that this immense force, for nearly a decade one of the central figures of his age, was more or less ejected out of the White House and into the world while still traveling, in a sense, at a supersonic speed. He could scarcely apply his own brakes and it took a distasterous trip up the Amazon and the death of his son to do that for him. Nobody who was ever tremendously energetic takes retirement well.    One small favor. I've noted in the editorial review and elsewhere gratuitous snide remarks about Roosevelt's hunting, usually as some coupling of \\"hunter\\" and \\"conservationist\\" which, at the time of writing, must strike the writer as pithy and bitingly ironic. In one example the former President apparently (and I'm paraphrasing) \\"decimated\\" every animal he encountered, which I assume means he carved off 1/10th of their hide or something. Could we please cut this out, it's silly, juvenile, and unneeded, and it betrays a complete inability to understand a culture within its historical context. THIS culture I should say, since cultural relativism has made it fashionable to forgive the flaws and foibles of every other culture except our own. Every person who makes a crack like may one day find themselves the objects of scorn of future self-righteous critics like themselves: Do you drive a car that uses non-renewable oil? How's your water consumption? Raising your kids in the way they'll think best in 2090? Maybe you let them watch TV, or play computer games, or eat fresh fruit--which may constitute severe child abuse in the future. Are you sure you're doing everything to meet the approval of future critics? C'mon people, stop taking pot-shots at the past and--especially--stop demonizing people because they didn't maintain 2005 AD standards for treatment of women, minorities, or endangered species in 1653, or 1841, or 1906. Then again, maybe you are the perfect and final product of an absolute system of ethics and justice and should be allowed to pass judgement on the past. HA! As grandpa used to say whenever I got snotty, \\"You, back then, without knowledge of here and now, would be JUST LIKE THEM.\\"    100 years ago, there was no contradiction in being a hunter and being a naturalist, in fact it made sense. There were seeming inexhaustible supplies of animals and limitless uninhabited areas. Also, many people thought hunting put you back in touch with nature, made you aware of life and death, placed you on understanding terms with fellow predators...and prey. It was their idea of being One With Nature, as in \\"We're animals too.\\" (Current environmentalists seem to survey the situation from outer space) His environmentalism was also people positive, not hateful and (hey, I've heard it right from their eco human-hating mouths) genocidal. What Roosevelt DIDN'T do was make comments about Redwoods like \\"seen one, seen 'em all\\" or think it was OK to demolish entire forests or drive animals into extinction. Try to remember that, and try to remember that in 1905 there were plenty of decent and well-intentioned people.	2005-08-08
US	35621205	R3BUNWGROCVDPU	0743203941	950793123	1912: Wilson, Roosevelt, Taft and Debs -The Election that Changed the Country	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Summer Reading	This is history lite--fun summer reading for those who like American political history. To be fair to the author, anything more would have been a dense academic book with a limited audience. He gets the basics of that fascinating election across well, hauls Debs in to good effect (which is not what happens with some mainstream history writers and ALL that happens with Leftist writers), pays suitable hommage to the astounding Roosevelt, makes Taft look like a decent guy, and (as much history lately does) makes at least this reader wonder once again why we regard Wilson so highly. All in all, once the dust has cleared, we walk away pondering that great \\"if\\" of the Twentieth Century. Roosevelt, elected in 1912 would have been the man to confront the First World War. Few on the planet had the grasp of international dynamics that Roosevelt possessed, let alone the respect of the world leadership. Roosevelt, immediately after the murder of the Archduke would have been thrust right into his element. A flurry of cables and backchannel messages, a few behind scenes threats that would never have been seen as bluffs, and the war may never have happened. (For a man who loved naval reviews he spent a lot of time working for peace. Power, to Roosevelt, was the way to insure justice and stability, not a way to be a thief or bully. TR was a healer, an inspirer, and a diplomat, unafraid to acknowledge an almost feminine component to his character. Even today few understand his thinking on these matters and someone should write a book on this.) <br /> <br />Since TR had, years before, already proposed a League of Nations type organization, he could easily have pulled Europe from the brink and then worked to get that organization in place. After his second Nobel Peace Prize, no debilitating trip up the Amazon, and no heartbreaking loss of his son, he would've probably lived to see the 1930s, turned down the title of King of the World a few times (really, he only wanted people to knowthat he merely qualified for the position), and brought that great German watercolorist, Adolph Hitler, over to do some paintings of the Grand Canyon for the Sagamore Hill library. He would have been the author of the modern age and while it wouldn't have been perfect it probably would've been a lot better for all of us--imagine a turn-of-the-century politician who didn't hate business, passionately loved the environment, was fascinated with technology, deeply respected women, was totally colorblind in the face of accomplishment, and didn't want to see people starve. His progressive democratic vision should be weighed against the odious options that were subsequently offered as solutions to the dilemmas of the modern age by Stalin, Hitler, the New Right, the Politically Correct, and too many others.  <br /> <br />Ultimately, as any history of early 20th Century America should be, this is, once again, a history of Theodore Roosevelt. Without TR the election of 1912 would have been unremarkable: a nice yet complacent Republican, a self-righteous Democrat (a quality they had even back when Democrats thought slavery was AOK) , and a swell Socialist with no chance of winning yet again. After years of study of Roosevelt, especially after reading many of his letters, I still wonder if any of us will ever fully get our heads around him.	2005-08-05
US	35621205	R2L6SQQR0KNZ8P	0867196181	833189465	Pop Surrealism: The Rise of Underground Art	Books	5	64	75	N	N	Great Book	Can't say enough terrific things about this, it's one of the best selections of modern art available. Yeah. I said modern art and not \\"outsider\\" art. Sorry kids, but that new crap we see in Artforum and in the big museums is the hellspawn of marketing, grant maggotry, the corporate world, and the new corporate academia. It has little to do with the natural evolution of Western Art. If it tickles you to think you're being a Bad-Boy/Girl/Whatever by liking this \\"outsider\\" stuff then you're falling right into their game plan, you're a niche market and they'll try to eat up this world just like they ate up \\"alternative music\\" in one big gulp. This art is the art of true Americans and that other yuck--the so-called mainsteam (which includes the pre-fab avant-garde nowadays no matter how middle-class titilating and naughty it be) is the Devils' work--the real Devil, the one that created Wal-Mart and George W. Bush. <br /> <br />Love this art, demand that your museums purchase it, rejoice in the fact that you'll never see some Ryden or Williams hanging in a corporate headquarters, sing Hosannas that some trendy art monkey with a Smith degree won't be writing pompous reviews using terms like \\"globalization\\" and \\"gender\\" about this stuff, wrap yourself in the red, white, and blue, and sing the Star Spangeled Banner! I just wish we could find some equivalent modern creative types with this kind of vitality in music and architecture. <br /> <br />(Recommended--read Paul Johnson's recent history of art, especially the bit where he talks about how the modern art world went all to hell because someone figured out how to market the bejesus out of it)	2005-08-05
US	35621205	R3GYIVXM7LY6EP	193195500X	919498958	Mark Ryden: Bunnies and Bees	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Incredible	It's pathetic writing anything about this genius. The books don't stay in print. We need some major publisher item priced at a solid $75 that everyone interested in this astonishing artist can purchase. Meanwhile, there's his web site and there's plenty to keep one entertained there.<br /><br />Pathetic too is the writing about this guy's art. Great surrealism in 2005 shouldn't be rehashes of Dali, Magritte, or Ernst. Ryden's paintings are exactly what surrealist art should be in this new millenium. This is a consumer society with virtually no history and no cultural roots--our dream imagery is Ryden's dream imagery. No artist alive better captures the collective unconsciousness of the West right now. We don't need comments about his wackiness or creepiness or use of Barbie in a painting, we need intelligent commentary about this man's place in the great sequence of artists and what it says about where that sequence be headin'.<br /><br />Interesting too, while the official \\"Art World\\" was self-destructing, wallowing in subjectivity, and simultaneously boring us all to death, Ryden, and a handful of others considered outsider artists (check out Donald Roller Wilson), regained both craftmanship and communications skills. This is the real art world now; honestly, you can cancel your subscription to Artforum--that lame and pompous tribute to gag-me snooty intellectual writing, grants, academia, marketing, and \\"social awareness\\" (unless you really love reading art reviews that immediately yammer about \\"globalization,\\" \\"gender issues\\" and \\"the OTHER\\")--and get Juxtapoz instead (if you already haven't).	2005-08-05
US	35621205	R2DPUPG24Y5LC7	0847825779	89528791	Red Grooms	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Make that twelve stars	Every young pup with pretentions who's about to enter art school for the first time should be hit over the head with this book as they pass through the ivy-covered entrance.    What's been missing from art the last several decades? Simple. FUN, COLOR, JOY, HUMOR, DELIGHT-IN-LIFE, SENSE-OF-WONDER, THE SUBLIME, CRAFT, TALENT. Last two contemporary art exhibitions I walked into I burst out laughing. In the first case there was nothing there--well not enough worth mentioning--and all this wonderous nothing took up a spectacular amount of space. In the second, the art was so over-the-top lame and foolish that I almost sprayed out my mouthful of cheap \\"opening\\" wine--a wall covered in socks stuffed full of brie or something equally absurd. Worse, they were no different than exhibits I'd attended TWENTY YEARS AGO. Furthermore, just how many more salutes to race, gender, differently abled-ness, multi-culturalism, AIDs awareness, violence awareness, and so on do we need? Do we really want our lives filled with nothing but either slick marketing crap or propaganda? At some point isn't it getting horribly obvious that these \\"social concerns\\" are all fallback points for mediocre artists who lack any genuine inspiration? After all who's gonna write a bad review about an art show that highlights violence against women? What prof is going it give it a bad grade, especially if the prof is a feminist who thinks the purpose of all art is to increase awareness of women's issues? It could be TOTAL CRAP and she'll ace it. Hell, do a lot of art that shows how enamoured you are with your own private parts and you might meet a hot date during the opening. Seriously, this entire contemporary art culture, from schools and grants on down, needs to be examined in detail.    Sure, these are important social topics I'm slinging mud at but its stuff like this and the never-ending minimalist and art installation mentality, AND the corporate baloney, that's driven all the STUFF WE'D GENUINELY GET AKICK OUT OF off the map. If all art does is reflect how sick and screwed up the world, or at least the artist, is, or \\"celebrate\\" mediocrity then how do we fire people up with the kind of lust for life that'd make them want to change things? And most of these socially concerned art exhibits preach to the choir, or are self-congratulatory daisy-chains, or are such hideous bummers that one wants to go home and blow ones brains out. Nothing has changed, no wrong has been righted, but somebody got a grade or a grant, or some promotion and a bunch of sensitive trendies can go home and think they did something great for the world while they nibbled on cheese and crackers.    This is all so horrifyingly obvious to regular Janes and Joes out there that the Republicans can cut 100% of all funding for art--and they sure as heck will--and there'll be nary a peep. Remember \\"Piss Christ\\" from years ago? Well believe me they never forgot it. Honestly, it, along with too much of Maplethorpes work, and a lot of street art--stuff that set the antagonistic mood many years ago--is just plain awful and this comes from a guy who loves plenty of outrageous stuff.    With that in mind, Red Grooms rocks and it's no surprise he's from the South (go check and you'll find a lot of truly great American artists are from the Red States). This book brought an immediate grin to my face and a deep longing to go out and paint gigantic and colorful hot air balloons (the old really ornate and cool kind) all over the sides of buildings, concealing the visually monotonous spraycan crap that's covered the urban landscape like kudzu and that we can't complain about because it's some sort of \\"cultural expression.\\"     Groom's work is also a damn good argument for the problem with our reliance on computer graphics. This kind of vital, colorful, life-affirming stuff is too sketchy and edgy to be done on a PC. You literally have to go out there and get your hands dirty, work really hard with materials, to dogreat stuff like this. This is about the best collection imaginable of his wonderful cartoony stuff. Tons of great photos.	2005-06-27
US	35621205	R2DFO55LME1H9E	0930193636	470002427	The Complete Little Nemo in Slumberland Vol. 1: 1905-1907	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Great comic, great draftsmanship, great art...	What's to say? The greatest cartoon ever is out of print and can't be seen by anyone. Thankfully his animated work is available on DVD through Amazon and it's a humbling experience. Those were the first animated cartoons and in some respects they've seldom been equalled. His first one--THE first one--is a shocker, like some amateur building the Taj Mahal on the first try. In terms of raw, fantastic, dizzying, imagination coupled with stunning craftsmanship McCay may have no equal. <br /> <br />If this material is not made available pressure should be exerted somewhere, maybe with the Smithsonian, to release new editions. The lack of availability is almost criminal: like finding out that Don Quixote's gone out of print or something. Really, I'm not being hyperbolic. For all the interest there is in comic art these days, all the Manga, Fantastic Fours and graphic novels, this has to be accepted as the medium's Shakespeare.	2005-05-07
US	35621205	R3AIFCK1L3PG3G	0195134389	824618349	Shostakovich: A Life	Books	5	16	33	N	N	Ease up a bit please!	This is a fine book--well researched and well written. I had a great time with it as a casual on-the-sofa read and learned much from it about a composer I like. I recommend it. I'm a little stunned by the viciousness of some of the revues--failing to deify the composer is no crime; having opinions--even controversial ones--about what motivated the composer is just a biographer's job. Some of the really negative comments about the book, and more disturbingly, the author make me wonder if she's being brutally victimized a bit here--ironically, in an almost Stalinist way. I'm having difficulty imagining why the venom. Is there a Shostakovich cult? <br /> <br />If you are interested in learning about the man and his music the number of books available on the topic is surprisingly small--you might as well read them all. In contrast the controversies surrounding Shostakovich's life are absurdly large. The definitive book on Shostakovich won't be written until everyone who had anything to do with him is long gone and emotional involvement  has settled a bit. Even then, well, no great composer, nobody in fact, ever gets consistent appraisals from biographers.  <br /> <br />No, sorry, I don't think DS was the \\"greatest\\" composer of the last century, I'm not even sure he was the bravest. I'm not sure those words really apply at all to evaluating the creators of art music during that bizarre time. I think we lacked a single stand-out genius on the order or Mozart, Beethoven, or Bach but I'd argue the 20th Century had numerically more genuinely inspired and original composers than any other era. Mull over Bach, Telemann, Handel, Vivaldi and lesser lights of the first half of the 18th Century--then mull over Bartok, Stravinsky, Nielsen, Shostakovich, Strauss, Janacek, Puccini, Mahler, Elgar, Prokofiev and the long list that follows--up to mid-century when real problems start to show. No mediocities in their ranks but no Beethovens either. Something unprecedented was going on back then, maybe Western art music's Indian Summer. There's a good book in this I'm sure. <br /> <br />Irony is that during a time when so much compositional genius was floating around, the interest in art music began to decline--rapidly. This may in fact account for the diversity of the music of that time and, more importantly, the inconsistency of it. You can actually trace the careers of various composers as they create and then respond to the lack of response or to extramusical pressures that make a hash of their individual geniuses.  <br /> <br />I'd say Shostakovich, then, was not the greatest 20th Century composer but he is the greatest example of the dilemma of the 20th Century composer.	2005-04-24
US	35621205	RWOWPUZ6FWBLB	031231891X	106529036	Tragically I Was an Only Twin: The Complete Peter Cook	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Funny, I roared with laughter all the way through this book	Sad to see sort of so-so appraisals of Cook's work. In film he was often a genius too, I think of \\"The Wrong Box\\" (where, in fact, it's Peter Sellers that comes off a bit lame) or his brilliant portrayal of the psychotic British PM in \\"Whoops, Apocalypse!\\" I remember him explaining to his cabinet--deadpan-- that British industry is suffering because of sabotage by pixies. (Michael Moore should have watched that film before directing Canadian Bacon, he might have learned a few things like political satire sometimes needs to be existential to ring true, it shouldn't always be just witch hunting). Anyway, that role alone should have made Cook's reputation. I can't imagine how anyone could not have found him funny in \\"Bedazzled\\" as his was the ultimate portrayal of the banality of evil--Satan being \\"bad\\" by scratching up people's record albums. <br /> <br />Cook, unfortunately for us, not him, was one of the all-time great practitioners of the art of silliness and the absurd. That sort of stuff requires something special of an audience, a willingness to not try to \\"find meaning\\" in humor. We're a literal society these days, we take ourselves a tad too seriously, our humor is a bit self conscious and often it's just cruelty or mockery--the lowest forms. (A friend once commented on how funny her friends were and I told her no, all they did was ridicule and tear each other down. She thought about that and replied \\"Wow, you're right\\") Steve Oedekerk, creator of the wonderfully funny film \\"Kung Pow\\" complained how he had to seemingly justify everything he was doing in the film. Much of it was just pure wackiness, you simply can't explain or justify it. If you need the reasons why you can't explain it explained to you then you're lost, you'll never understand. It's a higher level of understanding and you'll need to go study with Buddhists or something. They know all the good jokes anyway. <br /> <br />I just watched a great WC Fields flick, \\"International House.\\" Someone asksFields where he's going to sleep and he replies \\"On my left side, with my mouth open...wide open.\\" The day people stop laughing at joyous absurdities like that (Most these days would seek a double-entendre or something equally dumb in that)is the day I pack up and move to Tibet. <br /> <br />This is a wonderful book and it's sitting here remaindered for $5.98 in a few cases. Cook's writing reminds me of Robert Benchley's--he was another gentle absurdist who, fifty years ago, was a household name and a familiar face in the cinema. That's back when non-linear weirdness could be found in Bugs Bunny cartoons and for a while even in the funny papers with Krazy Kat. Many of the best writers of his generation considered him to be the funniest man alive too and he may well have been. All his books are out of print except for a small collection. This is also sad beyond reckoning. <br /> <br />Honestly I don't see the shift in humor to be simply a matter of taste or trends. Not \\"getting\\" Peter Cook means dropping humor down a fair number of notches to the general level of the Scary Movie series, lets say, and that's mostly unsophisticated toilet stuff you could diagram on a blackboard. <br /> <br />When a whole civilization finally dumbs down bigtime nobody ever really notices or cares much. That's actually how it happens, people stop caring. In about 50 years museums will be discarding things like abstract expressionist art because everyone, no exceptions, then will think\\" my kid could do that.\\" They'll no longer be able to discern the vast gulf that exists between kid scribblings and de Kooning. To primitives high levels of complexity and organization are just \\"noise.\\" Everyone will find it irrelevant, boring, or laughable, and that's happening all around you with your culture right now. Much art only survives because it has an astronomical assigned dollar value. In the future you won't be able to find a Peter Cook book to save your life.	2005-04-22
US	35621205	R35WA7PTC8HQK7	0425176584	667817080	The Stargate Conspiracy: The Truth about Extraterrestrial life and the Mysteries of Ancient Egypt	Books	5	17	37	N	Y	Mission Accomplished	You might as well collect together all your UFO and related conspiracy books, make a big pile out back, douse it with gasoline, and set it ablaze... this book included. <br /> <br />Don't get me wrong, I really liked this book. It's packed with names and dates and serious questions about a lot of the people currently selling snake oil out there. It's also laced with some of the most absurd ideas imaginable, kind of wrecking the veracity of the \\"good stuff.\\" In fact all the books on this and similar subjects are like that. Hey, if any of this crazy stuff is true a lot of very sharp people are going to make darned certain that information on the subject is pure mud. Even if it isn't someone will still make mud of the topic.  <br /> <br />Worse, if there's no conspiracy to make mud of the topic, it'll be made into mud anyway since there's no peer review or fact checking going on in this realm. Facts?! What publisher would want that day to come--a whole niche market would evaporate overnight! Honestly, conspiracy stuff is a lose/lose situation. If Dante had lived today he would have created a level of Hades where people chased after conspiracies for all eternity (Riding a UFO in search of a UFO). Better to let some alleged Conspiracy have its way than to be led around by the nose. Sure they win that way, but believe it or not by ignoring them you win too. It's a spiritual kind of thing; the Devil can't come in unless you invite him in. <br /> <br />On the other hand this book was a lot of fun to read and it made me wonder what the heck's going on at the Great Pyramid these days (Am I the only person who thinks the Pyramids are the dumbest things around--all that work and they don't do anything useful. Give me one good Roman aqueduct any day!). There's tons of info here that you don't seem to be able to find elsewhere. For me books like this inhabit a realm between fiction and non-fiction. Despite what I've written I have no plans to stop reading things like this. Maybewe should create a third category? <br /> <br />	2005-04-04
US	35621205	R14XA95SYOQ7LH	B0002D6DB0	569839531	Dr. Eckener's Dream Machine: The Great Zeppelin and the Dawn of Air Travel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent	This is a well written, well-researched, and highly entertaining account of one important part of the history of the rigid airship--a history that really shouldn't have ended. The US Navy originally planned to use Zeppelins as airborne aircraft carriers--carrying reconnaissance aircraft. Two were built and both met with bad luck. Had the Navy been successful, worked out the problems, and advanced the technology, it would have been unlikely that the Japanese could have moved their fleet unseen to within striking distance of Pearl Harbor. They made great defensive weapons, lousy offensive ones. Additionally a serious plan was afoot to finance a fleet of cargo Zeppelins for the Pacific. The beasts may be slow but they are faster than large surface vessels and are terrific heavy-haulers. They also don't make a mess of the ocean or ruin whale communications. <br /> <br />This book is a great way to get a sense of an extinct technology that might have been not only workable but also preferable to our current ones. Speed has made the world smaller but we're rapidly learning that isn't such a wonderful thing. Zeppelins would have helped create space--breathing room--in the global economy. Travel would be almost forced to be leisurely and civilized. Today it's more fun to take a bus to Cleveland than to fly in a loud and cramped jumbo jet to Paris. The jets pollute the upper atmosphere causing tremendous environmental damage, the Zeppelins wouldn't have. <br /> <br />Those of us who love this subject and would enjoy seeing the skies filled with these gentle behemoths seem like hopeless romantics, but maybe the intuitive appeal is less irrational than suspected. Maybe we sense that the positive gains provided by fast communications and modern transportation technologies are not exactly outweighing the overall losses. Trains, trolleys, airships, surface ships, a phone that's not with you 24/7, and a whole lot less Internet, might actually be the optimum technologies for a saneand sensible world. Bigger, faster, and more powerful are the options the dinosaurs went for and look where it led 'em.  <br />	2005-03-15
