US	35818675	RFIWD01DBN75F	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Intriguing At Best	This book was definately an engulfing story as Clinton outlines his life from birth to today. Some parts do drag a bit in list form, however, the format of the book is usually intriguing and flows well. The candid way it was written is easy to read, yet actually meaningful in its simplicity. No matter how you may personally view Clinton as a president, I would recommend reading My Life as a memoir of Clinton's struggles and triumphs. There have been many books written about Clinton, but this book lends an interesting and different perspective that is usually only achieved in an autobiographical format, which this is.	2004-06-26
US	35818675	R16SDZLH1KF7AU	0965970140	359939242	The Beloved	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Beloved	This book is really excellent! Anyone who loves tension in a story will truly appreciate the great sexual tension here, as well as the horror aspect. The story really keeps you guessing, which I loved- so many twists and turns! I won't waste your time by giving a full synopsis of the story because you can just read the editorial reviews, so take my word for it, this book comes highly recommended. Enjoy!<br />-Frankie Alsup	2004-04-26
US	35818675	RTN3NAR38R16R	0385327137	200912112	The Minstrel's Tale	Books	1	4	9	N	N	So Boring	This book had the blandest, most boring deliverance of a well-known Shakespearean story, Twelfth Night. This author not only couldn't come up with an original plotline, but she can't write much better than at a 5th grade level. I finished it to the end just to see if it would get better, but it didn't- just a continuing farrago of cliches and predictable plot turns. The dialogue was like a droning litany. Don't even bother with this- it's awful.	2004-03-19
US	35818675	R3DJA0UGVPTWFL	1582348162	525690882	Pirates! (Teen's Top 10 (Awards))	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Pirates?	This is the kind of story that I feel would make an excellent screen play, but as a book, it's rather dull. The book is too short to truly maximize the story, and it seems like it was written by a young adult for young adults. There is no deep description and the characters could have been much better fleshed out. I liked the story a lot, and I think there ought to be more piratical adventure stories, but this one just didn't deliver enough details, description, good charictarization, or any unusual plot twists. The whole thing was pretty predictable. The plotline would be great for something like Pirates of the Caribbean 2, though.	2004-03-17
US	35818675	R260EO0U3M0VM4	0743249291	730674424	Wideacre: A Novel (The Wideacre Trilogy)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Excellent!	This book is written with some of the best description and carefully crafted detail I've stumbled upon yet. The story takes place in a wonderfully beautiful era, the Georgian era, right before Regency- long before women had even begun to think of having rights such as suffrage. Beatrice Lacey narrates the story of Wideacre, and while the story takes place on her home, the estate of Wideacre, the story is about Beatrice's struggles to possess her one love- the land of Wideacre. Beatrice is a passionate, often violent young woman who wants to own Wideacre, but as a woman, she cannot. Her greed and sensuality lead her to do anything to possess Wideacre- including murder. Despite Beatrice being a manipulative, greedy person, the reader cannot help sympasizing with her situation. Just as viewers everywhere both at once hated and loved Scarlet O'Hara, so will readers feel the same conflicting emotions with the heroine of this story. I also wanted to mention that it is true that there is quite a bit of sexuality in this book, and most of it is unconventional. I noticed that many of the other reviewers were disturbed by this prospect, however, if you prefer non cliches, passion, and interesting characters in absorbing situations, then this is the book for you! I think it is ignorant to be repulsed by incest when comparing our own time period in the second millenium to the late 17th century. Rules were different then, and I advise readers to view this book for a Georgian-era story, and not see it as 'disgusting' because incest is considered disgusting nowadays. I highly recommend this book as a fast-paced, absorbing read with beautiful description and fascinating characters whom are not always easy to empathize with, but who are always interesting! A very enjoyable read!	2004-03-01
US	35818675	R6KRWWNX7QQXT	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	2	3	34	N	N	Weird story	Bad book- too much annoying go-at-it sex and violence, not enough of a real plotline to keep me interested, and how can any of you justify reading this book in public? It'll scare people. All three in the series have a chunky shirtless woman on the cover.	2004-02-15
US	35818675	R2UHU6ZRZFDO2R	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	3	10	36	N	N	Consider before reading	For how popular this novel and it's sucessors are, I find it hard to believe that all the people seeming to be reading are really understanding it. To put it simply, this book is more difficult to read than Guy Gavriel Kay, and that's saying something. The intricate language and complicated situations would normally be fascinating to me, but in this instance, the author comes across as not sounding intelligent, but trying to sound impressive. I thought the purpose of writing a novel was to entertain your readers, not confuse them and to try and sound smart at their expense. Right now I'm not trying to represent those of lesser intelligence, because seriously, this book is very hard to read. I found myself zoning out as I tried to stay focused. Also, though someone thinking about buying this book probably would have already figured this fact out from reviews, this book basically deals with a woman whose occupation is prostitution, and in the fantasy world in whcih she lives, it isn't a career that was frowned upon. Another thing to be wary of- if the very erotic bothers you, skip this book. The author really gets into the varied S&M forms of sex in Kushiel's Dart. The biggest problem I had is that it seems to be the norm that with these complex stories, many extraneous characters and events are introduced into the plot- and then never have any significance later on. Well, why is that? To add more color to the story? It's just exasperating. I've spoken with several of my friends to whom I've passed my copy of Kushiel's Dart along to, and when I mention the length and difficulty of reading the language, there is the common reaction of looking embarrassed, and then saying something like, \\"Well, yeah, it was hard to read... but everyone says it was so good!\\" Well, the storyline was definately interesting, and the fact that the author could write an entirely fictional story with governmental intrigue and the like is most impressive. I'm not adverse to books that are of complicated material- I think it adds spice to overused cliches of storylines. However, I was suprised that no one else mentioned in their reviews how hard this book was to read.	2004-02-15
US	35818675	R2OA280C3NKQ5R	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Just NOT a good book...	This book was one big relentless rant by an author who, after having published sveral novels, I would have expected something better. The whole story is set in a world that is supposed to be \\"post Voodoo War\\". What does that mean? Well, the author never explains, and so the reader can't hope to know. The protagonist is Rae, or Sunshine, as she is called. She seemed a cold and inept heroine, but even that I could over look. The biggest problem is that there is really no plotline. It took a quarter of the novel for the meager semblance of a story to kick in- and after that, all that is in this book is a cold Charlie's Coffee shop baker posing as a heroine, her lifeless boyfriend, an even more lifeless vampire named Con (whom you'll have to learn to appreciate throughout the book, boring as he is, because he is the only bit of intrigue you'll find), the odd SOFs (think anti CIA), and all of it existing in a poorly constructed fantasy world.<br />The book doesn't even have a genre. Is it horror? Well, no, not really, because there is nothing remotely scary. Romance? No. There are two sex scenes that I can think of in the book, and niether are much more over a paragraph. The rest of the book is devoid of such sensualism, but because of the potency of those two scenes, no child would or should read the book. The book tries to be humorous, but when jokes become whole pages long, it has long stopped being funny- especially when the jokes are about baking.<br />Bottom line: This book was nothing but boring. Skip it. If you're looking for horror or romance, go elsewhere, because I promise you won't find it in Sunshine.	2004-01-01
US	35818675	R3TPB6K6BJUQ99	0142501425	782714914	Firebirds: An Anthology of Original Fantasy and Science Fiction	Books	3	6	16	N	N	Not what I thought it would be...	This anthology has one basic problem, though I guess I should have known better, as the problem is that, as an anthology, there are over a dozen writers who have composed short stories for it. It's hard to like everyone's style of writing, even if the genre is the same. As it was, I only liked three of the stories - Michael Cadnum's Medusa, Sherwood Smith's Beauty, and Kara Dalkey's The Lady of the Ice Garden. Stories like Lloyd Alexander's Max Mondrosch and Nancy Springer's Mariposa I thought were a relentless bore, and there was even a comic strip in the book - totally out of place. This book really gives you a taste of the entire spectrum of sci fi and fantasy. However, if you're like me with your tastes already centered on a certain area of the genre and certain authors, beware. Consider this a warning if you, like me, can't appreciate all aspects of sci fi/fantasy.	2004-01-01
US	35818675	R11G6ZXTKYH1HV	0060513640	301232992	One Night of Scandal (Fairleigh Sisters)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Definately not Medeiros' best work...	This book was, in a word, ok. That's not usually an adjective I would associate with Teresa Medeiros' writing- usually words like excellent, superb, and gripping apply to her writing. Lately, I've noticed that this author's work has been going slowly downhill. I loved some of her earlier work- like Once An Angel, Thief of Hearts, and Nobody's Darling. However, this book, as well as the Bride and the Beast were so bland that I thought I was reading work by another author. I suppose that if you like really character-oriented stories, without so much situational stuff, you would like this book. Though I'm telling you, it's boring. One of the bigger issues of the story was the conflict between Lottie, Hayden, and Allegra. Just your typical evil stepmother plot, and I hear about these things every day. All the characters were cliched- in fact, the entire plotline had been used before. I took off a star because One Night Of Scandal is almost exactly like Rebecca, by Daphne Du Maurier. I won't waste time retelling the story of Rebecca, but if anyone has read it or seen the movie, you'll understand what I mean. If not, just trust that it's safe to say that this book was boring, cliched, and overall NOT what I would expect from a normally fabulous writer.	2003-12-26
US	35818675	R2U5V0L0TIYLVI	0972109811	431603827	Love & Benjamins	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Just... REALLY Good!	Granted, this book has some very adult themes that aren't suitable for anyone under...well... let's just say it has graphic everything. Still, the writing is great, and the story line is fast paced and fun. I wasn't bored for a minute reading this book, and as someone once said, you'll never cheer so much for the bad boys! The women are really strong and smart, also, which is great that they aren't fawning over all the drool-worthy guys in this book. Alexei might make you want to kill him, but you can't deny he's a genuine Russian hottie, for instance. This is a must-read book, and the author has a wonderful style. I'm definately looking forward to more stuff from her in the future.	2003-12-16
US	35818675	R1ML07ZQ426HCW	0972109811	431603827	Love & Benjamins	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Oh Boy...	This book, to put it kindly, is extremely sick and dirty at the least. Think of the worst torture and the sickest forms of fornication- most likely, you'll find them in here. However, the book is so good! The writing is really excellent- descriptive and clear. The characters are all very well fleshed out (with maybe the exception of Donovan, whom I didn't really like anyway- he was too good, esp. for this story!), the plot is fast-paced, and there's action and sex. All in all, it was a great contemporary pulp fiction read; a great diversion from any normal person's boring life. Well, even a normal CIA detective's life would seem boring compared to this!However, reader beware: this book is only enjoyable if you're prepared for some pretty disturbing stuff. Most of it I stomached just fine, but when it came to the torture of Lindsey, I was completely grossed out (anyone who has read this has an inkling why). There is graphic (and I mean GRAPHIC) sex and violence. There was a rape scene where the masochistic woman enjoyed it, there is a lot of people getting shot up by the other secret agents, and there are tons of liasons. Still interested? Before buying this book, I would definately recommend that you read the back cover of it, if you can. It basically tells you just what kind of a ride you're in for. Still, if you can overlook the sex, violence, drugs, and profanity so overused it becomes bland, or perhaps even enjoy all these elements, then have at this book! It really is very well written and fun to read.	2003-11-30
US	35818675	RTE5FRPBWV45A	0452283485	1013337	Bitten (Otherworld)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sink Your Teeth Into This!	Sorry for the corny title, but this book is absolutely delicious! :)<br />I just finished reading Bitten last night, and this book has become one of my favorites ever. There has been a lot of contemporary monster lore novels out there, some better than others, and Bitten ranks among the best. If anyone has ever read Blood and Chocolate, which I loved, this book is very similar to it. Both feature strong, sexy women who just want to lead normal lives... as werewolves. That premise may sound all-too-familiar, and, as I was, you'd feel inclined to pass by this book on account of that. Don't! This book is truly a hidden gem, since Armstrong is a new author. Her writing is descriptive, clear, and concise. No part of the story is extraneous, and yet, she has a full novel written- meaning, page-turning action the whole time! For the queasy reader, beware- Armstrong has tried to make this novel acceptable as realistic contemporary. As such, there is some pretty graphic violence, sex, and language. For some people, this adds to the excitement. The only thing in this book that struck a wrong chord for me was: why didn't Elena leave Philip at the get-go? He was obviously no comparison to Clayton. Also, it's true that the idea of Elena being the only female werewolf in existence sounds pretty contrived, but in relation to the plotline, it's fine. Oh, and if you appreciate sexy men, you've got it made in Bitten. Happy reading!	2003-11-26
US	35818675	R2K9VKAW3Q7EN8	0553581147	866370771	Lady of Conquest	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Mediocre	This story, while the writing is colorful and descriptive a la Medeiros style, definately needed improvement. The plotline is melodramatic, the ending poorly thought-out, and the relationship between Gelina and Conn? Absolutely exasperating. Conn is a dominating and selfish bleeeeep, and Gelina, despite an outward facade of the strong and independent female, is truly a meek and mild girl simpering for Conn's affections.<br />There seems to be a lot of misconstruting of the so-called 'rape' scene in this book. I'll just say this: Yes, Conn does say, &quot;You have no right to refuse me; I'm your king&quot;. However, Gelina responds with a submissive and dispassionate attitude that leads one to believe that she wasn't exactly adverse to being taken advantage of. Great heroine, huh?<br />Secondly- Gelina is only 16 when the story starts, and around 17 when it ends (I believe), while Conn is most certainly double her age, possibly more. Perhaps that was the time frame Medeiros was striving for; myself, it made me gag.<br />Bottom line: Gelina should have married Nimbus- he treated her well, was sweet, caring, and funny, and his one shortcoming (pardon the pun) was that he was too short.<br />Second bottom line: worth a read for the writing alone; the story itself leaves more than something to be desired.	2003-11-12
US	35818675	RRJ10E92ELFEE	0060289058	208629690	Secret Sacrament	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful Sacrament	First of all, I'd like to start by saying that this book is one of the most beautifully written and poignant stories I've ever read, and I've read quite a few. I was most amazed that most people haven't heard of this book, and it hasn't gotten nearly the amount of publicity it ought to have gotten. It truly was a buried treasure, and I am so lucky I found it.<br />Jordan does a wonderful job with the language in this novel. The writing is clear, simple, and easy to understand, yet is incredibly descriptive. The wording is so colorful, I could almost feel the wind on my face as I stood beside Gabriel on the city walls, overlooking the bustling markets...and it only starts there.<br />Although this is a fantasy novel, the historical and political references had implications even a child couldn't ignore. Thoughts of the persecuted native Americans, the Roman empire, and Jesus Christ were only a few of the historical concepts going through my head as I read this novel, which not only brought the story to life and made it more realistic, but also brought the story close to home, for I'm sure not only myself.<br />I won't waste time by writing a full synopsis, but the main points to know are that Gabriel is a tormented hero who, ever since he was a child, has wanted to be a healer. He is kind, patient, and above all, flawed yet fundamentally good, which makes him grow on the reader and regard him with close empathy even at the beginning of the story. The rest of the characters were incredibly endearing, also- Ashila and the wise Sheel Chandra, for example.<br />Not only were famous historical allusions made, but many personal difficulties and home life troubles were brought to attention in this story. Gabriel dealt with an unfeeling father who was often away from home, as well as overbearing uncles. Gabriel's mother was an excellent example of what I loved about the story's characters- she was a fundamentally sweet and kind woman who was overly controlled by her husband, yet, despite her weakness, she was not a totally meek and mild person. No one in Secret Sacrament is black-and-white, good and evil. Everyone has some good and bad in them, making all the characters charmingly realistic.<br />I recommend this book for readers of all ages, however, I think it's fair to say that there is some sex, though it is not too graphic and is quite beautiful, as well as this is a heart-wrenching story which had me weeping in the last few chapters, as Gabriel becomes a martyr for his people. If you are interested in a completely beautiful and amazingly well-written story, though, I recommend Secret Sacrament with all my heart.d, yet, despite her weakness, she was not a totally meek and mild person. No one in Secret Sacrament is black-and-white, good and evil. Everyone has some good and bad in them, making all the characters charmingly realistic.<br />I recommend this book for readers of all ages, however, I think it's fair to say that there is some sex, though it is not too graphic and is quite beautiful, as well as this is a heart-wrenching story which had me weeping in the last few chapters, as Gabriel becomes a martyr for his people. If you are interested in a completely beautiful and amazingly well-written story, though, I recommend Secret Sacrament with all my heart.	2003-11-07
US	35818675	R2CMZ36DT7KJ4U	0060513640	301232992	One Night of Scandal (Fairleigh Sisters)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lovely	I'm not going to write a synopsis, since that can be found elsewhere. I have to say that Teresa Medeiros never disappoints, and this latest novel of hers proves to be just as worthy as her others. I'll admit that I have my favorites among Medeiros' work- Thief of Hearts, Once an Angel, and Nobody's Darling being, I think, the best. This novel encompasses Medeiros' notorious beautiful writing, yet it isn't one of my favorites. I'd place it on a par one down from some of her best, along with Lady of Conquest and A Whisper of Roses. However, if you liked either of these two above mentioned books, perhaps One Night of Scandal will tickle your fancy. However, anyone who loves Medeiros' work and appreciates truely beautiful historical romance will cherish this novel along with her rest. It will be a nice addition to any collection of historical romance.	2003-10-07
US	35818675	R3H5VBF4W0LP1G	0152009752	366425094	Wren to the Rescue	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Good Story	Though not on the par of Crown and Court Duet. This book was obviously written for a younger audience, without the same prose, (...) tension, or interesting plot twists that were present in Crown. Still, an absorbing and pleasant read. Recommended- especially for young adults.	2003-08-06
US	35818675	R38M18MTSBC2GL	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	3	20	24	N	N	An Author's Opinion	I have conflicting feelings for this book. I appreciate the disturbing, yet very real, idea brought to light in this story: what if books really were burned, and that was normal? What if the majority of society was just a slew of brain-washed followers? Those themes, among others, in this book are important to consider, in my opinion. I, for one, cherished books and the freedom to own them more after having read this book. Unfortuantely, I didn't really enjoy the actual reading of this novel. The writing seemed, if not flat, then more devoid of emotion than it ought to have been. I like writing to be descriptive and fulfilling, while still understandable. Bradbury's writing is, at times, flowery past my point of immediate comprehension, and at other times, not quite creative enough. There are certain lines in this book that didn't read quite right, and some ideas I didn't think were adequately explained. The mechanical dog- interesting idea, vague deliverance. The 'family' was interesting as well, though I don't think that Bradbury explored it enough. This novel's main flaw was, in the most extreme sense, flat writing. My opinion might be more biased because of a rather severe project I had to do on the book after having read it, which deflated my liking for it a bit, but I hope I've been as objective as possible. I'd recommend reading this book, as it is a fine piece of easy-to-read literature and a fascinating look into the future of books, though don't expect for a masterpiece on your hand. The writing could definately have been better filled out.	2003-06-16
US	35818675	R33B8NIZDSX1DR	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	2	6	16	N	N	This Book Wasn't Neccessary	It's true that this book shouldn't entice so many people to come out saying they hate Bush so much, since it is about Clinton, and not him. However, I really have read this book because I was curious about this eye-witness account, and I will tell you that it is quite biased from a Republican's viewpoint...	2003-05-04
US	35818675	RDAK784X4JK0A	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	1	37	183	N	N	Positive Garbage- Painful to Give it Even 1 Star	Oh geez. Can this Robert Patterson guy get any more childish? A person's personal opinion of the previous president are theirs to cherish, but to publicly and so blatantly denounce a man who was once the leader of this country isn't, I'd say, where we want to go. <br />Clinton was a good president. Period. He did wonderful things for our economy, for the starving and sick in Africa, for education, ensuring our rights, and keeping peace with other nations, among many other things for all the people here in America (which is more than we can say about Georgie Junior now, isn't it? The guy starts a stupid war to protect his oil industry, not to stop terrorism. Might I remind some of you that the 9/11 hijackers were mainly from Saudi Arabia? NOT Iraq?). There's a good reason why Clinton was elected president twice in a row, folks! Yet, sorry to tell you, he IS human. Humans tend to make mistakes, and some a lot more frequently than Clinton, while not even being in the spotlight. How would you like having a world of media and publicity reporters breathing down your neck, just waiting for you to slip up? So he made a mistake. Big deal- his love affairs and personal life have absolutely nothing to do with how he manages the country. Nothing. So give it a break, alright? Clinton is a decent fellow, and was one heck of a president. So why don't we start treating him like it.<br />You might not like Clinton, but I sure hate Bush (he wasn't even supposed to be president, if he hadn't messed up the FL votes), and yet I don't go around writing books on it. Why don't we all just grow up. And if I haven't already summed it up, don't buy this book. Don't even read it. This book is garbage.	2003-04-24
US	35818675	R2FJAM0KIPIUY0	0553294091	438412162	Once an Angel	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Fallen Angel	Though I very much enjoyed this book and was swept up into reading it practically nonstop because of Medeiros' potent writing, I didn't like this book nearly as much as some of her other novels. The plot was an interesting and different one, which is what I've come to expect from Medeiros, but many of the themes the story delt with were a bit too dark and opressive for me. I like light romances that don't make me feel saddened too much or desperate that the characters come through alright. Throughout this story, however, the main characters go through a lot of dilemmas that are often heartwrenching. If you happen to like stories that keep you guessing about the outcome and even the relationship of the male and female protagonist, this story is for you. Despite the often dark material of the story, however, there were many elements to this story that I know most everyone would find uplifting and enjoyable.<br />This book is divided into two sections. The first is the better of the two, because even though the story takes a while to get into because it's several chapters before the protagonists meet each other, the character interaction and setting are better in the first section of the book than in the second. It takes place on the sandwashed beaches of Australia, with 'savages' running about naked and Justin, the hero, in nothing but faded dungarees. I found the scenery to be wonderfully refreshing from the prim and proper setting of Victorian England. Justin teaches Emily, the heroine, to loosen up a bit and soon they find themselves becoming at ease with each other and there was a lot of laughter and smiles in this first part of the book. Then when Justin has to leave, we switch to the second section of the novel, which is all in regency England. Not a very pleasant read for me, and I found many of the scenes quite boring and some even extraneous.<br />Some of the more borish scenes in London were often filled with purposefully hurtful words exchanged between Justin and Emily, often time so much so that I wanted to shake both of them. They both do have painful pasts, so I tried to look past the cool demeanor they put on. Emily's father died when she was very young, by a gunshot fired by his best friend- Justin. When Emily's benefactor was supposed to come and take her away and care for her, he never came because of the guilt he felt at his friend's death (by the way, he killed Emily's father not out of maliciousness, but out of mercy), and because he gave away his inheritance to a part of a wealthy estate to go to Australia. Justin is broke, and has barely enough money to send to Emily into London to care for her. She grows up with a fierce venegeance and vows to repay Justin for what he's done to her. Her pain of her father's death and of living for years in poverty, coupled with Justin's guilt and remorse of shooting his friend and not taking care of his daughter haunt the main characters throughout the story, which is understandable.<br />Another thing that bothered me somewhat is what some of the other reviewers have said is true: Emily is only eighteen, compared to Justin's late twenties I believe, and she often acts very childish and can be obnoxious even. I did find myself falling for Justin, because he has a good heart and was very patient with the haughty miss Emily, but I'll warn you that you'll probably find yourself wanting to strangle Emily at random points throughout the book.<br />Of course, the whole story is embellished by the overly used 'she was a slender-as-a-stalk, willowy and pale virgin', which was a bit grating because it kept coming up how much Emily still looked like a young girl. That put me in mind of statutory rape at some points (the only reason why Emily was eighteen instead of seventeen, I'm sure, even though the laws of today didn't exist in the late 1800s of England), and made me think of incest at other points because Justin was appointed Emily's official ward by Emily's father. Almost likea stepfather having his way with his child stepdaughter. It wasn't a pleasant thought for me, nor I'm sure for many of the book's other readers.<br />It's true, though, that Justin and Emily did share a sweet and tender romance that, though it was often embroidered by Emily's temper tantrums that would turn into love scenes (as only a fiesty heroine would have it). Overall, I suppose I did enjoy the book because the characters weren't perfect- their problems weren't what I would call 'real problems', meaning not very realistic, but they didn't live in a flighty fantasy world of perfection, either.<br />My recommendation would be to check this book out of the library, or even buy it, because it is a good book, though not one of the author's best. I'd say you should also try Thief of Hearts in placement of or in addition to this book. That story also has some ships and sandswept beach scenes, too.ke a stepfather having his way with his child stepdaughter. It wasn't a pleasant thought for me, nor I'm sure for many of the book's other readers.<br />It's true, though, that Justin and Emily did share a sweet and tender romance that, though it was often embroidered by Emily's temper tantrums that would turn into love scenes (as only a fiesty heroine would have it). Overall, I suppose I did enjoy the book because the characters weren't perfect- their problems weren't what I would call 'real problems', meaning not very realistic, but they didn't live in a flighty fantasy world of perfection, either. <br />My recommendation would be to check this book out of the library, or even buy it, because it is a good book, though not one of the author's best. I'd say you should also try Thief of Hearts in placement of or in addition to this book. That story also has some ships and sandswept beach scenes, too.	2003-04-20
US	35818675	R2D7EI8TEA8S2J	0553575015	683613604	Nobody's Darling	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Darlin' Good Romance!	Let me start out by saying that I'm not particularly fond of romances, probably because the first one I read was a VERY sex-filled one by Stephanie Laurens. I tend to gravitate more towards stories where friendship comes first, then love, then sex, as opposed to ones where the main characters just jump into bed together. So I laid off the romances for awhile, but after reading the summary of this book and seeing it's great reviews, I gave it a try. I'm so glad that I did!<br />The is a story that mostly takes place in the wild wild west. I thought that this was refreshingly different from the stories that are completely centered around the 'ton' in England (what is the ton, anyway?) that are all repetitions of each other. One reason why I like and respect Teresa Medeiros as much as I do is that she writes beautifully, her stories are all different from each other (one is a time travel, one takes place in Australia, one in medieval Scotland, and this one in America's southwest), and she usually throws in one or two sex scenes that the reader can handle, as opposed to the dozen or more in some of the trashier novels I unfortunately fell across. This story is centered around two finely developed characters who truly care about each other, with so many interesting and funny supporting characters. I truly enjoyed reading this novel.<br />One thing I really liked is that the hero, Billy, didn't have that notorious \\"mane of silky black hair brushing his shoulders\\". It's one of, if not the most, cliched descriptions of a male protagonist in a romance novel. This one was sun-browned and golden, and wore dirty, faded cowboy clothes. Not the crisply clean pinstripe suits in stories of Victorian era England or France. The heroine, Esmerelda, in this story was (Thank God!) not blue-eyed with blonde ringlets, who \\"oooh\\"-ed over that bad boy. This one had a mind of her own, and wasn't going to jump into bed with the first man she found attractive. Not that the main character really pressured her too- he respected her. I was completely happy with the main characters by themselves and together, they were perfect.<br />The supporting characters were great, too. I really liked Aunt Anne and Drew, and they had a sweet side romance of their own that I liked because it showed that the author wasn't completely focused in on just two people. The dog Sadie, Billy's mother, the Darling gang of Billy's brothers, and Grandpapa were all fun additions to a whole crew of great characters.<br />As for the sex (which is inevitable in any romance novel), there was only ONE sex scene! I was so very relieved, because though some might not agree, it really made the relationship between Billy and Esmerelda that much more loving. That's not to say that there weren't several scenes of kissing and there was some intense sexual build-up. It was fun to read the build up of attraction between the characters, which, to me, is far better then where it leads to.<br />The plot of this story was, of course, hammed up a little bit, but still very fun to read the banter exchanged between the two protagonists and the great \\"Western\\" expressions were a hoot. The story was a bit shallow, perhaps, but very few people reading romances are looking for a in-depth book on serious issues. This one was just a fun, sweet story for a Friday night or at the beach. I definately recommend you read this book. I love Medeiros's writing, and this is my favorite of her novels yet. This book was a rare treasure.y pressured her too- he respected her. I was completely happy with the main characters by themselves and together, they were perfect.<br />The supporting characters were great, too. I really liked Aunt Anne and Drew, and they had a sweet side romance of their own that I liked because it showed that the author wasn't completely focused in on just two people. The dog Sadie, Billy's mother, the Darling gang of Billy's brothers, and Grandpapa were all fun additions to a whole crew of great characters.<br />As for the sex (which is inevitable in any romance novel), there was only ONE sex scene! I was so very relieved, because though some might not agree, it really made the relationship between Billy and Esmerelda that much more loving. That's not to say that there weren't several scenes of kissing and there was some intense sexual build-up. It was fun to read the build up of attraction between the characters, which, to me, is far better then where it leads to.<br />The plot of this story was, of course, hammed up a little bit, but still very fun to read the banter exchanged between the two protagonists and the great \\"Western\\" expressions were a hoot. The story was a bit shallow, perhaps, but very few people reading romances are looking for a in-depth book on serious issues. This one was just a fun, sweet story for a Friday night or at the beach. I definately recommend you read this book. I love Medeiros's writing, and this is my favorite of her novels yet. This book was a rare treasure.	2003-04-17
US	35818675	R146XE1LPH2Q2W	0064471837	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	2	20	31	N	N	Confused why so many like it...	I honestly have no idea why so many people liked this book. I saw how many great reviews it got, and decided to try it out, almost positive that I would love it. Wow, was I wrong!<br />The biggest problem of all is the author's writing. This book has more intervals than I can count where I really had very little idea of what was going on, and I was extremely bored reading it. It's true that Garth Nix had a new and intriguing idea about death- the bells of Abhorsen were very neat, and the contrast between Ancelstierre- which is very much like a modern land- verses the Old Kingdom, where death walks freely- was different. If only the author had actually explained it all with decent writing and a good plot, I might have liked the book.<br />I can't even say whether I think that the characters are dull or not, just because they were barely even characters. I didn't think that Sabriel even had a personality. I nicknamed her the Ice Queen, because that's just what she was- cold and unfeeling. The author tried to throw in some evidence about why she might be this way, that her father was never around and that Sabriel never knew her mother. However, then she'd have these emotional outbursts at different intervals, making the reader think that she is an emotional person. That was very confusing.<br />The character of Mogget, who I nicknamed maggot, was strange, too. He's Sabriel's friend, or is he? Does he want to protect her, like he tries to during scenes where Sabriel battles death creatures, or does he want to kill her, like he tried to after she crashed the Paperwing? That wasn't even explained. Pretty contradicting material, if you ask me.<br />The romance between Sabriel and Touchstone (odd name, I know) at the end was fake and forced. I try to ignore it because that was what made me decide to write this review, to warn other readers. I haven't read Lirael or Abhorsen, and you'd have to pay me to do so.<br />There was also some material in this book that didn't fit the plot of the story at all, meaning it wasn't necessary nor was it really appropriate. At one point the author describes Sabriel's breasts, and when Sabriel meets Touchstone, hey! The man is naked, and she doesn't mind taking a few peeks. Not really apt for the audience.<br />I'm not going to lie to you- I really don't feel that this book should be recommended to anyone. The only scrap of a good thing I can say about it is that the idea of crossing into the dead, and the nine gates, is an interesting one. However, I still don't understand many things because the author was so vague about it. I still don't really know what a Moridcant or a Shadow Hand is. It was almost as if he expected you to know everything about the dead world. Gee, sorry to disappoint.<br />I can't see why so many people rave about this book. Either they like to read about confusing topics that true, are unusual and interesting, though clearly undeveloped, or I was missing something as I read.he plot of the story at all, meaning it wasn't necessary nor was it really appropriate. At one point the author describes Sabriel's breasts, and when Sabriel meets Touchstone, hey! The man is naked, and she doesn't mind taking a few peeks. Not really apt for the audience.<br />I'm not going to lie to you- I really don't feel that this book should be recommended to anyone. The only scrap of a good thing I can say about it is that the idea of crossing into the dead, and the nine gates, is an interesting one. However, I still don't understand many things because the author was so vague about it. I still don't really know what a Moridcant or a Shadow Hand is. It was almost as if he expected you to know everything about the dead world. Gee, sorry to disappoint. <br />I can't see why so many people rave about this book. Either they like to read about confusing topics that true, are unusual and interesting, though clearly undeveloped, or I was missing something as I read.	2003-04-17
US	35818675	R2U3KKJHM0VO54	0385327137	200912112	The Minstrel's Tale	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Dissapointing	I really wanted to like this book. It was avidly recommended to me by several people, and after reading all the reviews on amazon, I was ready to buy it, and I finished it in one night. It was not at all as I'd imagined.<br />The first problem with it is that it's so simply written that a seven year old would have no problems reading it, which isn't to say that I don't like children's books- I do. I just like reading books that are slightly above the \\"see Jane run\\" level. Books such as The Seer and the Sword or the Crown and Court Duet are also children's books that are far better worded, so they are understandable to a younger audience and enjoyable to an older one, such as myself.<br />The next big problem, which sorta ties in with the simply written one, is that the book was very much just told, like you might have been reading a brochure. There wasn't any 'showing' going on, and if you're an author or know anything about writing (which I'm sure you do if you're reading this review), you know the \\"show and tell rule\\" never tell, always show! The book had no heart or soul to it. It was told so plainly that I found myself falling asleep reading it, though I plowed on through, hoping that it was going to get better, as I'd been told it was quite good.<br />The characters were dull as well. Judith, the main character, made all the right choices as far as running away from a disgusting betrothed, but the way she reached the conclusion that she didn't want to stay and get married to someone three times her age was nonexsistent. It was almost as if she was a simpleton who had someone whispering in her ear \\"do this, do that\\", and she had no mind of her own. <br />The other characters were also dull and worse than being one-dimensional- they were completely bland. I wouldn't have been able to tell if it was Abbott Simeon or Lady Margaret saying something if the author hadn't said who it was. Finally, the romance at the end between Judith and Robin is a complete joke. Theymet each other once, \\"fell in love\\", and now that they are together, they've seen each other only a few times, and were under observation so they couldn't be themselves. In short, they have spoken maybe three times before deciding they want to marry. Not very convincing, nor does it make anyone respect the main characters more.<br />The way the author writes is as if she bought a book that gives you the plainest plot imaginable, and tell you that you need exactly so-and-so amount of supporting characters, when to have the climax, etc. The book was one of the most boring I've ever read, and not because it's a children's story- because it's not well written at all.<br />I suggest you skip this book altogether and opt for an adventure tale that encorporates convincing romance and actually has some descriptive details and interesting characters in it, such as The Healer's Keep.	2003-03-09
US	35818675	R4G9ANJQSI7AL	0441010032	320267427	Hidden Truth (Truth, Book 2)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Solid Story	This book, Hidden Truth, is the sequel to Dawn Cook's first book, First Truth. Unless you have read it first, don't even attempt to read this one. It would be hard to understand because everyone's history is explained in the first one, including backgrounds on rakus, Ese' Nawoer, Bailic, Alissa, Strell, Useless, the plains and foothills, and everyone's strengths and weaknesses. If you have read the first one, do pick up this book! It was horrible for me to wait the few weeks in took between when I finished the first book and when I got my hands on the second book because the first ended on such a cliffhangar.<br />I think that the main problem with this book is, first of all, both start out so boring that you just want to stop reading right there, but you keep going to find out what happens to the characters, which is this book's great strength. Every character is fully developed and has a completely rounded personality. Even Bailic, the main bad-guy, can be pleasant at times. Each person has their qualities and annoyances. It's wonderful to get to know the characters so well that you feel like you know them. If it's great action you're looking for, skip this book. Romance? Skip (though there is a bit in the second book, which is sweet only because you see how Alissa and Strell have gone from really not liking each other to this over the course of two whole books, plus there's the irony in the situation...). Same with if you're looking for a story with lots of magic. This book has magic, of course, but it's done and explained in such a matter-of-fact way that it seems like it really could happen. This makes it appear realistic, but almost in a borish way. I do appreciate the creativity behind the idea of tracings, sources, and wards, though. The idea of mild curses (like our words such as 'holy cow' or 'darn') that they use in the book, such as 'Hounds', 'Wolves', and 'Ash', are really amusing and seem very realistic. I also really liked the fact that Warden Lodesh Stryka came into play, considering that there are so very few characters in the Truth books.<br />Overall, I did like this book. Once you get started, you get so caught up in the characters that you share their joys and pains, and you don't want to stop reading, but (of course) she leaves you hanging on the last page. If you have nothing better to read? Go for this book. I definately liked it, but I didn't love it, and it certainly could have been better. It seemed that the author's main objective at times (actually, throughout) was to take the littlest bit of real information to write about and expand it as long as she could before completely boring her audience. If you asked what happened in this book, I could probably sum it up quite nicely in two sentences. That's not a good thing, you can imagine, and yet it still works. Like I said, if you want a character-oriented novel that's very indepth, this is a story with some elements of friendship and magic that you'll probably enjoy. It has no sex, violence, or profanity in it, but it's not for children only in that it would probably lose their attention very quickly. If it's magic you're looking for, I suggest Tamora Pierce's The Circle Opens series, or Harry Potter (but who hasn't read it?). All in all, this was a decent read and I admit that I enjoyed myself, but when I think about it, there are enough problems in it that I have a hard time giving it an excellent recommendation, but it's a pleasant read; I'll say that much.Stryka came into play, considering that there are so very few characters in the Truth books. <br />Overall, I did like this book. Once you get started, you get so caught up in the characters that you share their joys and pains, and you don't want to stop reading, but (of course) she leaves you hanging on the last page. If you have nothing better to read? Go for this book. I definately liked it, but I didn't love it, and it certainly could have been better. It seemed that the author's main objective at times (actually, throughout) was to take the littlest bit of real information to write about and expand it as long as she could before completely boring her audience. If you asked what happened in this book, I could probably sum it up quite nicely in two sentences. That's not a good thing, you can imagine, and yet it still works. Like I said, if you want a character-oriented novel that's very indepth, this is a story with some elements of friendship and magic that you'll probably enjoy. It has no sex, violence, or profanity in it, but it's not for children only in that it would probably lose their attention very quickly. If it's magic you're looking for, I suggest Tamora Pierce's The Circle Opens series, or Harry Potter (but who hasn't read it?). All in all, this was a decent read and I admit that I enjoyed myself, but when I think about it, there are enough problems in it that I have a hard time giving it an excellent recommendation, but it's a pleasant read; I'll say that much.	2003-02-26
US	35818675	R2582H01A1E5OZ	0152016090	396228917	Court Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book II	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Nearly Perfect...	...and an absolute delight to read. I bought the Crown and Court duet because of the great reviews and recommendations (and beautiful covers, true), and believe me, I was not disappointed. This book has just surpassed what was my favorite book of all time-'Ella Enchanted'- to become one of, if not the best, book I've ever read.<br /><br />The main storyline is simple enough, though highly interesting (beginning with Crown Duel): a young girl (who happens to be a Countess) and her brother are sick of the evil king's greed and tyranny over the land, and so they organize a revolt of a small group of rebels attacking sporadically in guerilla warfare. They are doing relatively well enough (at least they're succeeding in infuriating the king and his cousin), until Meliara (the Countess) gets caught and is imprisoned by an impudent Marquis. She faces a series of challenges that nearly kill her (such as her broken foot, being in a torture chamber, and being face-to-face with enemies that are more than a little intimidating...), though she always bounces back with humor and manages to help her revolt turn into a true war that finally knocks the king off his throne and out of power. The question now is: where does the power go? (Court Duel) Meliara now has retreated back to her home in Tlanth and spends her days peacefully with her old friends while reading up on family history, when she is yet again bothered by political affairs. Her brother wants her to join him in court to help him fight a new war in the palace Athanarel in Remalna-city. She reluctantly agrees, and is soon swept up in a fast-paced world that is completely new to her, filled with lies and deception behind every fan, and she must overcome a new type of battle...<br />Some wonderful little additions to this book that I found very interesting were things such as the Colorwoods, the time schedule (first blue, second green, etc.), and the wonderful names of characters (Branaric, Meliara, Nimiar) and of the land Remalna (Tlanth, Renselaeus) that are completely unique. I compliment the author on her innovative imagination on the creation of the setting.<br />The characters in this novel and it's predecessor were extremely well developed. I soon knew how every vital character would react to any situation, but the dialogue was humorous and well spoken enough that I couldn't guess as to what they would say specifically, which kept me hanging on. I soon felt like I was another of the characters, experiencing everything, and I knew the character's weaknesses and strengths, making them all the more realistic to me. It's an especially astonishing feat for the author, considering she writes from Meliara's perspective, first person, yet still allows the reader to get inside everyone's minds in a round-about way.<br />The reader can relate to nearly every character in this novel, even if they don't agree with the person, which proves just how well developed Smith makes her characters. Antagonistic characters from both books in the Duet, such as Galdran, Debegri, and Flauvic, were well portrayed as dangerous, cruel people, and while I couldn't connect with them (who could?), I thought they were well executed. Meliara was a spunky, intelligent heroine and it was refreshing to view the world through her eyes. Branaric was startlingly blunt sometimes, but also a hearty, likeable person. Nimiar was sweet and wonderfully pleasant throughout the story, and people such as Tamara and Savona were a bit two faced at times, but were portrayed exactly as most court people probably did act. As for the Marquis of Shevraeth, what can I say? I absolutely fell in love with him. He was incredibly intelligent and well-spoken, good-looking, wise about political and personal issues, and he can wield a sword and ride a horse like no other. Savona was pretty captivating as well...<br />The only reason I didn't say 'Perfect' in my review title is because nothing ever is completely perfect. There were some things I didn't like, true, but they were small things that probably only I would notice, and were far and between. Some small things were how Branaric became slightly distant and court-snotty in the second book, which bothered me for a bit, but when I though about it, it was necessary to the plot to have him change a bit. Another thing that really startled me more than I didn't like it was the abrupt romance between Meliara and Vidanric at the end of the story, though when I thought about that one, I saw that the build up kept people guessing and also made the romance that much more anticipated.<br />Overall, I think I've already summed up my purpose of this review: read this book! It's excellent, and I wish it got my publicity than Ella Enchanted did, because I truly believe it's better. This book will be one you will cherish, and I recommend buying the Crown and Court books separately (mostly because they look beautiful standing together hardcover on your bookshelf), though I heard that if you buy them together there is an extra paragraph or so at the end that is supposed to be great. I still have yet to find out for myself. As for which of the Crown and Court Duet books is better, I'd say neither, because they compliment each other with their differences. The only thing that could possibly tip the scale (which is why I have my review for the second book and not the first) is the romance at the end, which I had been sort of waiting for, though I wish I could have the Marquis for my own! Now go and buy both books, and make sure you get them on a weekend, because you can't stop reading...I found out first hand how addictive they are, and I'm hungry for another book. You just don't want the story to stop. Sherwood Smith, please write more!ings I didn't like, true, but they were small things that probably only I would notice, and were far and between. Some small things were how Branaric became slightly distant and court-snotty in the second book, which bothered me for a bit, but when I though about it, it was necessary to the plot to have him change a bit. Another thing that really startled me more than I didn't like it was the abrupt romance between Meliara and Vidanric at the end of the story, though when I thought about that one, I saw that the build up kept people guessing and also made the romance that much more anticipated. <br />Overall, I think I've already summed up my purpose of this review: read this book! It's excellent, and I wish it got my publicity than Ella Enchanted did, because I truly believe it's better. This book will be one you will cherish, and I recommend buying the Crown and Court books separately (mostly because they look beautiful standing together hardcover on your bookshelf), though I heard that if you buy them together there is an extra paragraph or so at the end that is supposed to be great. I still have yet to find out for myself. As for which of the Crown and Court Duet books is better, I'd say neither, because they compliment each other with their differences. The only thing that could possibly tip the scale (which is why I have my review for the second book and not the first) is the romance at the end, which I had been sort of waiting for, though I wish I could have the Marquis for my own! Now go and buy both books, and make sure you get them on a weekend, because you can't stop reading...I found out first hand how addictive they are, and I'm hungry for another book. You just don't want the story to stop. Sherwood Smith, please write more!	2003-02-23
US	35818675	RG0E2SM69UP8T	0152016082	642896985	Crown Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book I	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nearly Perfect...	This is more of a note than a review: if you are even remotely interested in this book, please look for my review by Ruby Blossom also titled 'Nearly Perfect' under Court Duel (instead of Crown Duel), where I've written an extensive review that you will probably find helpful. Thank you!	2003-02-23
US	35818675	R36D1FMZ4PZY5O	0441009077	459127178	Never After	Books	2	9	16	N	N	Clever, but Seriously Lacking...	This book caught my attention from the beautiful cover and the captivating first few pages, however, things soon begin to go downhill. I'll admit that the idea of combining about five classic fairytales into one package was an extremely cute and clever idea that had a lot of potential, but the author just didn't deliver.<br />First of all, there are several extraneous characters that weren't really needed at all, such as Rueberry or the other wizards, and the characters who were vital to the plot- such as Princess Vevila- were flat and undeveloped. Not to mention that I found the evil witch's continuous 'screaming' in my ear to be very annoying, and when Vevila finally decided to marry in the end, I felt let down- like her spirit from the beginning of the story had been in vain. This isn't one of those stories that even though isn't perfect, it still is a good idea to read it. I wouldn't recommend reading this book at all- many of the other reviews and the lovely cover are deceptive. ...	2003-02-02
