US	35811293	R1ZDC79LIA9QAI	1880238411	187057071	Jimmy & Rita (American Poets Continuum)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Cinema Verite in a Chapbook	Kim Addonizio's short imagistic tour through the lives of a prostitute and failed 24-year-old boxer make you feel as if you are in a three-dimensional film. This is literary impressionism, in a way similar to Brett Easton Ellis's Less Than Zero, but kicked up a couple of notches, or three, to reach a perfect-pitch elegance of objective poetic writing. Addonizio, who also seems (in my limited purview) to be the most striking poet to hit American letters since Bukowski, uses a counterpoint of first-person and omniscient narrator to give us her literary cinema verite. It's like an Altman film, only with access to the characters mental states. The masterful poetics makes heavy use of images, and the feeling of absolute objectivity is achieved because, not in spite of, the roving entry into first person narration. This is the way God would see, it feels, if there were a God. I would say that the explosive naturalism here, which makes use of narrative and film-like imagery within the confines of a poetry chapbook, qualifies as a new genre. Part of this technique can also be traced, I think, to Carver's minimalism which, by rendering extreme close-ups with an absolute simplicity of style, sans Hemingwayesque attachments to the male persona, forged a virtually unassailable minimalism. Now I know Paul West will disagree but hey...like the man said, the opposite of a great truth is a great truth. The only reason not to praise Addonizio too much is for fear of jinxing her future output.	2004-07-19
US	35811293	R2RX1XIQ2A0W7Q	1400034205	579488546	The Razor's Edge	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Butterfly Net of Words	In this brilliantly understated masterpiece W. Somerset Maugham slips the timeless theme of mysticism into the time-bound narrative of a novel. It is a class act with all the charm of a daguerrotype. The protagonist is a war hero who gradually withdraws from the world of ego and money inhabited by the social-climbing narrator, who is himself divided between high society and inner happiness. Of course, they are mirrors of each other: Boddhisatva. The excellent old movie based on the book catches the action but misses the nirvana behind the samsara that Maugham captures for us in his butterfly net of words. This has been a high-falutin' Zen review.	2004-06-08
US	35811293	R12R92FI9U8VIW	081121205X	365870128	The Man With the Heart in the Highlands & Other Early Stories (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Honest Wisdom and Wit of Saroyan Shines	Armenian-American inhabitant William Saroyan, whose heday was between 1934-1940 in San Francisco, is a great America writer of human short stories. He is gifted in characterization, in his ability to capture emotions and interpersonal subtleties; he is also overflowing with a sort of honest wisdom from whose cup it is a pleasure, via reading his stories to drink. There are several great stories in this collection; Secrets of Alexandria is about two isolated moviegoers with movie stars and hoping to hook up but thwarted by events; The Brothers and Sisters tells of the disillusionment of a buff young guy in lust with an innocent hooker, who is accompanied to the mysterious site of his jealousy by a religious member of a family of wine merchants; The Living and the Dead hilariously recounts the commentary of an Armenian grandmother, whose dead husband, a horse-riding drunk who terrorized and was never seen to cry, spouted incomparable oratory. Many of the best stories focus on the invisible fulcrum of passing time, the moment when an individual realizes, in the face of inexorable events, that things will not be the same. Relatedly, the stories perfectly capture the loss, the missingness, as it were, of the beloved. Dear Baby captures a boxer on the way out, fighting against odds for his dead sweetheart. The wonderful The Great Leapfrog Contest, perhaps my favorite, tells of a new neighborhood girl, Rosie Mahoney, the youngest of a big Irish family who moves into a non-Irish neighborhood where she proves her superiority to all the neighborhood boys-even the new, strong, instinctually cool and filmic-but not Rosie-quality-guy who moves in from Texas and refuses to engage in fisticuffs with a female. Many Miles Per Hour tells of young boys ogling a car souped up to go over fifty (!) miles per hour. Many of the stories feature, or have young male characters; because the stories take place in the first half of the 20th century, they contain a wonderful historical quality. Sweetheart, Sweetheart, Sweetheart details the angst of a teen desired by a married neighbor whose mother and sister realize what's going on before he does, and laugh when she takes a grown lover, never again to play the story's eponymous song which, she had said, was devoted to him.	2004-04-29
US	35811293	R2TCI1RQDODLZH	0060901918	745908638	The Perennial Philosophy	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Beyond Partisan Beliefs	This classic compendium of cross-cultural mystical references, entertainingly and informatively fleshed out by the author of Brave New World and Doors of Perception, is a welcome reference for anyone curious about serious, accessible literature on the nature of the eternal, the timeless, and the one--mysticism in a positive sense. It is peculiar in some respects: Huxley believes in the efficacy of magic (~morphic resonance); he is convinced that Hinduism and Buddhism are intrinsically less violent world views than the great monotheisms (based on their history); and he uses  some strange, and slightly fuddy-duddy phrases, such as &quot;poverty of spirit&quot; to designate a positive condition. He emphasizes the necessity of including spirit along with body and mind in any complete description of humanity. Some of the strangeness of this work to the modern reader owes to its datedness; it was written in 1944, and Huxley is clearly hugely disenchanted with the nationalistic politics that have been tearing the world apart.  Some of the strangeness owes to Huxley's vocabulary which, like any mystical vocabulary, must be oblique. Nonetheless, it would be difficult to imagine a more useful, diverse, or erudite compendium of mysticism in a work of this size. I was delighted and surprised to see that he even referenced Alan Watts, who only came into his own as a writer decades later, but was already analyzing, in more technical works, eastern philosophy such as Zen.  The basic idea of the philosophia perennis, or perennial philosophy, is that nirvana and samsara, time and eternity, the individual and the cosmos are one. This insight is described as advaita in Hinduism, annata in Buddhism, and (though perhaps less clearly) the union of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit in Christianity.  Islamic mystic Jallaludin Rumi wrote poems about it, and Zen banned reading of sacred works to foment it. Huxley, like Watts, thinks Jesus was a misunderstood mystic; J.C.'s main difference seems to be that he staked his life on the essential nonduality of himself and the universe, barely flinching along the way. Huxley would no doubt be thrilled to see the veritable scientific proofs of the cross-cultural insights collectively termed the perennial philosophy in experiments such as those by Alain Aspect, explained by &quot;ontological&quot; quantum theories such as those of David Bohm. He would not, however, be happy to see the present slide back toward medieval-style religionizing in the name of partisan beliefs and blood politics.o be that he staked his life on the essential nonduality of himself and the universe, barely flinching along the way. Huxley would no doubt be thrilled to see the veritable scientific proofs of the cross-cultural insights collectively termed the perennial philosophy in experiments such as those by Alain Aspect, explained by &quot;ontological&quot; quantum theories such as those of David Bohm. He would not, however, be happy to see the present slide back toward medieval-style religionizing in the name of partisan beliefs and blood politics.	2004-04-29
US	35811293	R1VFOTRH0ZLEVL	081121205X	365870128	The Man With the Heart in the Highlands & Other Early Stories (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Honest Wisdom and Wit of Saroyan Shines	Armenian-American inhabitant William Saroyan, whose heday was between 1934-1940 in San Francisco, is a great America writer of human short stories. He is gifted in characterization, in his ability to capture emotions and interpersonal subtleties; he is also overflowing with a sort of honest wisdom from whose cup it is a pleasure, via reading his stories to drink. There are several great stories in this collection; Secrets of Alexandria is about two isolated moviegoers with movie stars and hoping to hook up but thwarted by events; The Brothers and Sisters tells of the disillusionment of a buff young guy in lust with an innocent hooker, who is accompanied to the mysterious site of his jealousy by a religious member of a family of wine merchants; The Living and the Dead hilariously recounts the commentary of an Armenian grandmother, whose dead husband, a horse-riding drunk who terrorized and was never seen to cry, spouted incomparable oratory. Many of the best stories focus on the invisible fulcrum of passing time, the moment when an individual realizes, in the face of inexorable events, that things will not be the same. Relatedly, the stories perfectly capture the loss, the missingness, as it were, of the beloved. Dear Baby captures a boxer on the way out, fighting against odds for his dead sweetheart. The wonderful The Great Leapfrog Contest, perhaps my favorite, tells of a new neighborhood girl, Rosie Mahoney, the youngest of a big Irish family who moves into a non-Irish neighborhood where she proves her superiority to all the neighborhood boys-even the new, strong, instinctually cool and filmic-but not Rosie-quality-guy who moves in from Texas and refuses to engage in fisticuffs with a female. Many Miles Per Hour tells of young boys ogling a car souped up to go over fifty (!) miles per hour. Many of the stories feature, or have young male characters; because the stories take place in the first half of the 20th century, they contain a wonderful historical quality. Sweetheart, Sweetheart, Sweetheart details the angst of a teen desired by a married neighbor whose mother and sister realize what's going on before he does, and laugh when she takes a grown lover, never again to play the story's eponymous song which, she had said, was devoted to him.weetheart, Sweetheart, Sweetheart details the angst of a teen desired by a married neighbor whose mother and sister realize what's going on before he does, and laugh when she takes a grown lover, never again to play the story's eponymous song which, she had said, was devoted to him.	2004-04-29
US	35811293	RT07E4123C7XR	0394719239	706190985	Beyond Theology: The Art of Godsmanship	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Hindu interpretation of Christianity	This is the last book Watts wrote before his classic The Book: On the Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are. Like that more popular book, Watts explores the central belief systems of Hinduism: that all is one, and individual beings (e.g., the deep self or &quot;Atman&quot;) and things in time are illusory projections (&quot;maya&quot;) of an eternal, infinite Godhead (i.e., &quot;Brahman&quot;) that plays tricks on itself (&quot;lila&quot;) for the sake of divine entertainment. Watts makes the interesting point that Christianity can be true from the vantage point of Hinduism, but not vice versa: while Christianity rejects other traditions out of hand, Veddic belief systems can absorb Christianity as one of the most striking dramas ever invented: a captivating show in which the human soul is directed to do the right thing by an infinitely greater Creator whose ultimate castigation is eternal damnation.  Watts asks how we can know which is true, and says we can't, although he seems at this point in his life to side with the Hindu-Christian viewpoint espoused here. In The Book, he will drop much of the effort to incorporate Christianity, coming up with a &quot;cleaner&quot; belief system; later in his life he moves more toward Taoism, which is more concerned with process than truth. One criticism I have of this fascinating book is that Watts identifies what he calls the &quot;vague consensus of science&quot; with the contrast of conscious human life in an inert, dead and mechanical, universe.  But this interpretation of the modern science worldview, although dominant, is Caresian and neglects Spinoza's interpretation which provides an alternative with a perhaps higher truth quotient even than the fascinatingly tolerant interpretation of ultimate reality Watts develops here.	2004-04-06
US	35811293	RPEJD5ULFN7V8	0385494327	214937180	Black Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	"It's all in your mind," said the ghost.	Rarely does it seem that a great writer is recognized in his time, but Ian McEwan is an exception. Using the trope of two black mastiffs left behind by the Gestapo but still menacing the beautiful French countryside, McEwan tells the tale of an older couple June and Bernard Tremaine, living in different countries but still in love. The clever narrator, their son in law whose own parents died when he was eight, pieces together the interlacing of the private lives and world events of his adoptive parents from deathbed interviews with once-stunningly beautiful June and her big-chinned rational Marxist politician husband. The action toggles in space and time between 1946, the end of WWII, and 1989, the fall of the Berlin Wall. The metaphysical dilemma posed is reminiscent of the yin-yang symbol: though they finally fit together hand-in-glove, Bernard is a skeptic, scientific and rational, concerned with the welfare of the masses and worldly problems; June, originally a communist like her husband, undergoes a spiritual revelation in which she confronts evil, a mysterious light, and intuitive knowledge of God beyond material (and Marxist) strivings. This, for her husband, is a turn toward bourgeois blarney, while his idealistic faith in a better world to her ultimately seems unreasonable. At the book's end the wild dogs, killers of sheep and would-be killers of June, are left alive, metaphorically representing the potential return of spiritual and material menace to the mending but still wary continent of Europe. Apart from his brilliant details and locution (the narrator, an intellectual, early on acknowledges Proust's beautiful convolutions), and the highly readable plot, McEwan demonstrates a complete mastery of the depiction of nuanced human emotions as well as air-tight plotting. At one point, at the Wall's fall, after June's death and Bernard's confession to narrator Jeremy that he checks out young women's faces for traces of the former beauty of his departed wife, Bernard, old and infirm yet tall of stature and gifted with \\"senatorial calm\\" confronts some hoodlum neo-Nazis who are harassing a Turk with a red flag. The Turk gets away but when the street fascists come after intrepid Benard they are cowed into dispersal by a young German beauty who Bernard mentioned earlier was one that reminded him of June. When Jeremy intimates the metaphysical significance that the one he was looking for was the one who saved him despite the material absence of his wife, his comment is, \\"Yes. Quite a coincidence, I suppose. Now for goodness' sake Jeremy, get me home!\\" (p. 77) As go-between balancing his two subjects Jeremy is the site of a world-historical fight between rationality and religion made personal by its incarnation in June and Bernard. In a humorous scene (pp. 94-98) Jeremy in the French second home of his beloved mother-in-law, senses June warning him of scorpions in the cupboard, thereby avoiding a bite but provoking a vivid, if imaginary, discussion between spiritual avatars of his pseudo parents. \\"Rationalism is blind faith,\\" says June's quasi-ghost; \\"'June's presence'\\" replies Benard's quasi-ghost, \\"was in your mind, and projected by you onto the surroundings. Given our fear of the dead, it's understandable that you were wary as you stumbled through the house in the darkness...Scorpions,\\" the entomological hobbyist adds, \\"are common enough in this part of France.\\" Later (in the narrative, earlier in the history it narrates) Benard will be captivated with the alien face of a caterpillar in his pregnant newlyweds hour of canine need: \\"As he had knelt down, his cheek grazing the path, to stare up close at the head of the leading caterpillar, at a hinged face of inscrutable parts, he had though how we share the planet with creatures as weird and as alien to us as any that could be imagined from outer space. But we give them names and stop seeing them, or their size prevents us from looking. He reminded himself to pass this thought on to June, who even now would be walking back up the path to find him, possibly a little cross.\\" (pp. 124-125)  She is more than cross, though, she is potentially dead herself at the slavering black jaws of bleeding dogs supposedly trained by the SS to violate interrogated females.  All is resolved, and not resolved, by the end of this compact wonder of observation and articulation.t on to June, who even now would be walking back up the path to find him, possibly a little cross.\\" (pp. 124-125)  She is more than cross, though, she is potentially dead herself at the slavering black jaws of bleeding dogs supposedly trained by the SS to violate interrogated females.  All is resolved, and not resolved, by the end of this compact wonder of observation and articulation.	2004-03-31
US	35811293	R23VJQ1WJ157TA	0691000670	276396949	A Spinoza Reader: The Ethics and Other Works	Books	5	30	37	N	N	Key Document of West	This literally wonderful introduction to one of the world's great philosophers by one of his major English translators can be a revelation. It concentrates on The Ethics, the work in which Spinoza lays down his thoughts on God and emotions &quot;geometrically.&quot; Spinoza took time out from this, his major work, to write the Theological-Political Treatise-a work which, by showing the Bible to be an historical document tied to its time, helped usher in the modern, free state with its separation of church and state, freedom of speech and freedom to worship.  Spinoza's ancestors were persecuted in the Spanish Inquisition, moving to Portugal and then to Holland, which showed more toleration; yet Spinoza's own beliefs, based on the universality of reason, the proto-scientific philosophy of Descartes, and the political requirement for freedom to understand the universe without autocratic nincompoops who didn't know what they were talking about, led him to be excommunicated from the Dutch community of Portuguese Jews when he was 24. The Theological-Political Treatise meant at first for a small circle of Dutch Protestant friends, was a key document in the 17th century and that eventually led the civilized world (e.g., the founding fathers of the United States) to realize that, since biblical interpretation depended on a knowledge of history and language, correct understanding of the Bible and God demanded reason. Knowledge of God, as the early, non-institutionalized Protestants realized, was accessible to the individual without clerical interference. It could not be monopolized by a priestly caste but was available to any reader of scripture. Spinoza takes this radical idea one step further, showing that it is not monopolizable by  any one sect and, indeed, that it is accessible through inner reflection without even reading the imperfect historical document known as the bible.  Spinoza's God is Einstein's God, an awesome, rationally necessary being who does not interfere personally in human affairs. He is far too big for that. Indeed, &quot;He&quot; is impersonal, infinite in comparison to man's finitude. Spinoza argues, not always completely persuasively or without contradiction, that God can be intuited from first principles (he is a &quot;substance&quot; with &quot;infinite attributes&quot;) as formally as Euclid could deduce that all triangles add up to two right angles.  Ironically-due to the importance the Treatise had as arguably the most important single document in safeguarding the future of freedom to worship and the separation of church and state-Spinoza in the Ethics argues against freedom.  Everything we do is necessary, since God, who includes all space (&quot;extension&quot;  in Cartesian thought) and thought, is rationally constructed.  There is no room for probability, choice, or non-causal factors. (This may be why Einstein to his death doubted that &quot;He...plays dice&quot;-i.e., the intrinsic statistical factor in quantum physics.) In a famous letter (# 58, to Schhuller for Tschirnhaus, included here) Spinoza argues that a thrown stone &quot;while it continue[s] to move....is conscious only of its striving, and not at all indifferent, it will believe itself to be free, and to persevere in motion for no other cause than because it wills to. And this is that famous human freedom which everyone brags of having, and which consists only in this: that men are conscious of their appetite and ignorant of the causes by which they are determined.&quot;  Although what appears to us as evil is made inevitable by this deep suggestion that free will is an illusion unbefitting of the real God (whose manifestation as thought and extension, the spiritual and the physical, are the two of his infinite attributes most accessible to us) accessible to reason, Spinoza adds (p. 269) &quot;what of it? for evil men are no less to be feared, nor are they any less destructive, when they are necessarily evil.&quot;<br />Spinoza argues thatprimitive religious ideas and poetic language mask the beatitude of a God almost, but not quite coterminous with nature, who is far too great to be made in man's image. He is based on necessary principles, such as the sort intuited by Einstein in the thought experiments that led 100 years ago to the relativity of space and time and the convertibility of mass and energy-to nuclear weapons and the Nobel Peace Prize.  We are part of nature.  Although I take issue with Spinoza's (and Descartes', whom he was following) claim that nature never acts &quot;for the sake of some end&quot; (p. 198)-because the second law of thermodynamics clearly leads systems to end-states of equilibrium-it is fascinating to see how this deep prejudice-a tonic against superstitious humanity's earlier over-reliance on the concept of divine will-comes into nature. And I agree that final causes play no role in a truly infinitely existing being, as Spinoza posits of God (p. 198): &quot;That eternal and infinite being we call God, or Nature, acts from the same necessity from which he exists. For we have shown...that the necessity of nature from which he acts is the same as that from which he exists. The reason, thereofore, or cause, why God, or nature, acts, and the reason why he exists, are one and the same. As he exists for the sake of no end, he also acts for the sake of  no end. Rather, as he has no principle or end of existing, so he also has none of acting. What is called a final cause is nothing but a human appetite insofar as it is considered as a principle, or primary cause, of some thing.&quot; God-manifesting to our limited senses as Nature-is not to be taken personally. He is too great for that. One of the great documents in the west, key to understanding the progress of both religion and science.primitive religious ideas and poetic language mask the beatitude of a God almost, but not quite coterminous with nature, who is far too great to be made in man's image. He is based on necessary principles, such as the sort intuited by Einstein in the thought experiments that led 100 years ago to the relativity of space and time and the convertibility of mass and energy-to nuclear weapons and the Nobel Peace Prize.  We are part of nature.  Although I take issue with Spinoza's (and Descartes', whom he was following) claim that nature never acts &quot;for the sake of some end&quot; (p. 198)-because the second law of thermodynamics clearly leads systems to end-states of equilibrium-it is fascinating to see how this deep prejudice-a tonic against superstitious humanity's earlier over-reliance on the concept of divine will-comes into nature. And I agree that final causes play no role in a truly infinitely existing being, as Spinoza posits of God (p. 198): &quot;That eternal and infinite being we call God, or Nature, acts from the same necessity from which he exists. For we have shown...that the necessity of nature from which he acts is the same as that from which he exists. The reason, thereofore, or cause, why God, or nature, acts, and the reason why he exists, are one and the same. As he exists for the sake of no end, he also acts for the sake of  no end. Rather, as he has no principle or end of existing, so he also has none of acting. What is called a final cause is nothing but a human appetite insofar as it is considered as a principle, or primary cause, of some thing.&quot; God-manifesting to our limited senses as Nature-is not to be taken personally. He is too great for that. One of the great documents in the west, key to understanding the progress of both religion and science.	2004-03-31
US	35811293	R2U8N9UPVSBSJQ	037571927X	138403429	Time Out of Joint	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Get Back to Me in Forty Years	Appearing in 1959 when P.K. Dick was 31 this book is set in a nameless town and centers around the gyrations, mental and physical, of Ragle Gumm, a paranoiac but proficient loner who lives nonetheless with his sister Margot and brother-in-law Victor, a supermarket employee.  Other characters of note are Bill Black and his stunning but jejune wife Junie. Gumm is famous in his world, set contemporaneously in 1959, for the improbable skill of solving a daily newspaper puzzle, \\"Where Will the Little Green Man be Next?\\" He listens in a tree house with his nephew Sammy over a crystal radio set and detects people improbably discussing him. Since he is paranoid one might thing they are aliens but they are not. One of the biggest contributors to Gumm's paranoia is his world's tendency to alter precipitously. A maelstrom of things not being what they seem starts innocuously when he goes to the bathroom and reaches up for a string to pull the light off--a string which does not, and never did, exist in said bathroom. Far more radical is the tendency of things to turn into words.  This slide down the Saussurean abyss is most startling after Gumm, taking time out from flirting with his neighbor Bill's wife Junie (he goes so far as to kiss her and tell her he loves her in the middle of the day as they lounge in public by an outdoor swimming pool), treks up a hill to a hotdog stand. \\"The soft-drink stand fell into bits. Molecules. He saw the molecules, colorless, without qualities, that made it up. Then he saw through, into the space beyond it, he saw the hill behind, the trees and sky. He saw the soft-drink stand go out of existence, along with the counter man, the cash register, the big dispenser of orange drink, the taps for Coke and root beer, the ice=chests of bottles, the hot dog broiler, the jars of mustard, the shelves of cones, the row of heavy round metal lids under which were the different ice creams.  In its place was a slip of paper. He reached out his hand and took hold of the slip of paper. On it was printing, block letters. SOFT-DRINK STAND.\\"  Ragle thinks he is being recognized and followed--and to an extent he is, because he is famous for his work on the puzzle. We realize we may be in a parallel universe when pictures of a girl  (she had \\"heavy hair, well-groomed and quite long. She smiled in an amazingly sweet manner, a jejune but intimate smile that held him. Her face was as pretty as any hea had seen, and in addition she had a deep, full, sensual chin and neck, not the rather ordinary neck of most starlets but an adult, ripe neck, and excellent shoulders. No hint of boniness, nor of fleshiness. A mixture of races, he decided. German hair. Swiss or Norwegian shoulders\\") turn out to be Marilyn Monroe in England making a film with Sir Laurence Olivier. A series of coincidences spur Gumm to escape, despite the fact that Junie is ready to leave her husband for him, hijacking an eighteen wheeler.  Without giving the ending away, let's just say that Dick's estate deserves royalties for The Truman Show, the Jim Carey show where reality turns out to be a huge staged production. In Time Out of Joint, leaving your home town takes you to the future-or what was the future, 1997-a time when Lunatics (moon settlers) are in civil war with Earth, where women wear boy's clothes and the height of young male fashion are  tribal tattoos and \\"cones of hair, each with a sharp, colorful, spike stuck into it.\\" In addition to everything else, Dick seems to have predicted punk (anti-)fashion, almost half a century before its appearance.ld of the slip of paper. On it was printing, block letters. SOFT-DRINK STAND.\\"  Ragle thinks he is being recognized and followed--and to an extent he is, because he is famous for his work on the puzzle. We realize we may be in a parallel universe when pictures of a girl  (she had \\"heavy hair, well-groomed and quite long. She smiled in an amazingly sweet manner, a jejune but intimate smile that held him. Her face was as pretty as any hea had seen, and in addition she had a deep, full, sensual chin and neck, not the rather ordinary neck of most starlets but an adult, ripe neck, and excellent shoulders. No hint of boniness, nor of fleshiness. A mixture of races, he decided. German hair. Swiss or Norwegian shoulders\\") turn out to be Marilyn Monroe in England making a film with Sir Laurence Olivier. A series of coincidences spur Gumm to escape, despite the fact that Junie is ready to leave her husband for him, hijacking an eighteen wheeler.  Without giving the ending away, let's just say that Dick's estate deserves royalties for The Truman Show, the Jim Carey show where reality turns out to be a huge staged production. In Time Out of Joint, leaving your home town takes you to the future-or what was the future, 1997-a time when Lunatics (moon settlers) are in civil war with Earth, where women wear boy's clothes and the height of young male fashion are  tribal tattoos and \\"cones of hair, each with a sharp, colorful, spike stuck into it.\\" In addition to everything else, Dick seems to have predicted punk (anti-)fashion, almost half a century before its appearance.	2004-03-27
US	35811293	R2UW6IRQN64EDW	0679734457	486927956	The Divine Invasion	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Visit from the Stars	Divine Invasion opens with Herb Asher (do I detect a botanical reference?) \\"dead and in cryonic suspension\\" overseeing information traffic from within his dome around the binary star system CY30-CY30B. His sickly female neighbor, dying of multiple sclerosis, becomes pregnant with a virgin birth (her hymen is intact and Herb is repulsed by her sickness) that turns out to be the result of Yahweh--God of the old testament. Although only perhaps (like us all?) vividly dreaming, Asher accompanies his legal wife (Yah has insisted he sympathize with her by vengefully threatening to destroy his most treasured belongings, especially his tapes of Linda Fox, a galactically renowned vocalist) through quasi-fascistic interrogations and security back to Earth. There his life is reminiscent but different than on the world of methane crystals housing the dome where he \\"really is.\\" As the \\"legal father\\" of God (as he explains to a police man who stops him in his fly-car) he meets his step-son, the Christ-like child who combines infinity from God (the alien who comes in half-human form to Earth) and the earthly from his human wife. Emmanuel, the God-child, is engaged in both a battle of recalling his true nature and playing with his elusive female playmate, Zina. Zina knows things about him that he doesn't. She is Shekhina, \\"the immanent Presence who never left the world...the female side of God\\" who remained with the immanent world when the Godhead split. Elias Tate, Herb Asher's best friend, is the prophet Elijah on the two-star system, but a black man who works at an audio components shop on Earth. Thus the inimitable and brilliant Dick establishes an overlapping confluence between the celestial (the extraterrestrial) and the mundane--he literalizes the Gnostic worldview, spiced idiosyncratically with bits of his personal life, esoteric Judaism and mystical Christianity.  (The well-regarded literary critic, Harold Bloom, tried to write--wrote--a fiction book based on Gnosticism that fell far short of this brilliant effort.)  Quoting Church father Tertullian on the resurrection of Jesus Christ, Asher's friend Elias, who counsels him to dump his wife and pursue his dream--Linda Fox, who in space is only a projection of artificial intelligence--explains: Et sepultus resurrexit; certum est quia impossibile est.\\"  He was resurrected from the grave; this is therefore credible, just because it is absurd. I think you have to give the benefit of the doubt not to those who cannot penetrate Dick's densely nuanced tangle of relevant references upon a single reading--but to Dick, who has instantiated Gnosticism in fiction with entertainment and story-telling acumen, imparting lodes of theological information along the way where others have failed. In Islamic culture being a writer may be considered suspect because one is competing with God. But Dick is alway competing with God--and making \\"Him\\" such as he is (here an alien with a penchant for intrauterine symbiosis) palpable and relevant for modern times. That is what great authors (e.g., Pushkin in Russia) do: they revive and re-weave culture, preserving it in their creative efforts. The devil appears as an especially stinky goat, who is killed on a rooftop (as is another goat in Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?!) But Belial (the sheep who lusts after non-existence) was created by God. As my son raps, \\"Good and evil are not equal; light created the darkness.\\" A theological mini-masterpiece--pearls before swine are still pearls.at fell far short of this brilliant effort.)  Quoting Church father Tertullian on the resurrection of Jesus Christ, Asher's friend Elias, who counsels him to dump his wife and pursue his dream--Linda Fox, who in space is only a projection of artificial intelligence--explains: Et sepultus resurrexit; certum est quia impossibile est.\\"  He was resurrected from the grave; this is therefore credible, just because it is absurd. I think you have to give the benefit of the doubt not to those who cannot penetrate Dick's densely nuanced tangle of relevant references upon a single reading--but to Dick, who has instantiated Gnosticism in fiction with entertainment and story-telling acumen, imparting lodes of theological information along the way where others have failed. In Islamic culture being a writer may be considered suspect because one is competing with God. But Dick is alway competing with God--and making \\"Him\\" such as he is (here an alien with a penchant for intrauterine symbiosis) palpable and relevant for modern times. That is what great authors (e.g., Pushkin in Russia) do: they revive and re-weave culture, preserving it in their creative efforts. The devil appears as an especially stinky goat, who is killed on a rooftop (as is another goat in Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?!) But Belial (the sheep who lusts after non-existence) was created by God. As my son raps, \\"Good and evil are not equal; light created the darkness.\\" A theological mini-masterpiece--pearls before swine are still pearls.	2004-03-17
US	35811293	R2L2A84LI1O62C	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Idios to Koinos Kosmos: Attraction, Empathy, and Androids	This book, known for its tie-in to the SF blockbuster film Bladerunner, is a distinct beast. One of Dick's best, most fully developed, and imagined novels, it takes place on a radioactive wasteland-Earth in the not-so-distant future, after a war that killed virtually all animals (whose prices, even when no specimens are available, are kept in auction guide-like catalogues called Sidney's Animal and Fowl), and necessitated lead codpieces to protect the human germ line in the minority not turned into \\"specials\\"-radioactive rejects such as one of the book's two male protagonists, Jack Isodore.  The main, tough male character is Rick Deckard, a married bounty hunter who steps up to the plate after his senior colleague is killed in the line of fire.  One thing that I don't think comes through in the film, but which is a major focal point of the book, is the metaphorical, metaphysical status of the weak, the feminine, the loving-emotional-animal axis so central to our mammalian human being.  As always in Dick, it helps to look beyond the action to the philosophical or metaphysical verities that are being expertly explored through the condensed tool of his nonpareil fiction. Here it occurs to me that the \\"being-a-man\\" coolness (i.e., emotionlessness) of the prototypical-and ideal-1950s male is here what is being taken to task.  In non SF pulp forerunners to a book like Androids-in the works of Raymond Chandler and his hardboiled ilk, that is to say, in detective fiction-the desirable femme fatale is resisted as the detective (the \\"private dick,\\" as the slang goes) solves the crime.  In Androids-which is a kind of metaphysical detective story-the Deckard character makes a mistake of falling for Rachel Rosen, an attractive young female with attractive small \\"Irish\\" buttocks, large grown up-woman eyes, and a Jewish last name. She at first appears to be the daughter of the head of The Rosen Association, a rich corporation at the forefront of extraterrestrial android manufacture. The Voigt-Kampff test, however-a sort of polygraph that asks pointed questions trying to stir human-style empathy, such as what would one think about a couch made of human hide-reveals that she is a Nexus 6, the most advanced type of organic robot.  It is interesting both that Rosen is given a Jewish name and that the Voigt-Kampff test is thought in the book to be ineffective in detecting certain schizophrenic patients.  For Dick's true topic is not technology and hovercar chases but empathy. With his bounty money Deckard replaces his electric sheep with a real goat, bought from the Rosen Association at considerable expense.  This is a huge status symbol.  The book opens with a marital dispute over a Penfield Mood Organ, a device that can program emotions, even rather exotic ones such as 481, \\"awareness of the manifold possibilities of the future,\\" 888, \\"the desire to watch TV, no matter what's on it,\\" and 594, \\"pleased acknowledgment of a husband's superiority in all matters.\\" Moreover, the main religious figure, and the number two personality on the planet after TV celebrity Buster Friendly, is Mercer, an old man whose experience of climbing up a rocky hill while stones are thrown at him can be accessed by anyone with an \\"empathy box\\"-a black box with two handles that somehow conveys not only the experience of being with Mercer, but his actual wounds as he makes his Christlike trek.  When Deckard must wrangle with his mission-to kill other AWOL Nexus-6 andys, some of them females with the same alluring form of Rachel Rosen, with whom the bounty hunter makes the plunge-the reader is forced to contemplate what it is that truly ties him to others, what makes him better (or not) than an animal, a what-who-by turns insures and interrupts his essential loneliness. He is a detective on a mission to kill that which he loves-a difficult proposition, and one that all life in principle faces.  The woman, the goat, the sexy android, his wife, the escaped androids, and evena spider with its legs being torn off all provide the opportunity for reflection on the status of life's common unity, and its ability to recognize itself in itself. Near the book's end Deckard finds a toad-it may be the last one on Earth-and brings it home to his wife, who discovers it is electric. Of course, we too are, in a sense, electric, although our maker(s) are not corporations we can locate by browsing through the Yellow Pages.  As biologist Jean Rostand wrote, \\"Biologists come and go. The frog remains.\\" The beauty and sadness of Dick's world is he presents us with a believable scenario in which the frog is gone.  Metaphysics disguised as science fiction: a meditation on loneliness, solipsism, and empathic connection in a vast universe where, ultimately, we must take on faith that the idea of what the Greeks called a Koinos Kosmos (shared universe) when all we can feel directly is our own, individual, Idios Kosmos (private universe). The Hebresque paramour, Rachel Rosen, is the killable other, identified as such by signs so subtle, we might, as any private dick knows, be guilty of displaying them ourselves. When you consider that the trait sought for that separates the android organic machine from the \\"real\\" human is precisely the capacity to empathize, you realize that this is a major work by a master.a spider with its legs being torn off all provide the opportunity for reflection on the status of life's common unity, and its ability to recognize itself in itself. Near the book's end Deckard finds a toad-it may be the last one on Earth-and brings it home to his wife, who discovers it is electric. Of course, we too are, in a sense, electric, although our maker(s) are not corporations we can locate by browsing through the Yellow Pages.  As biologist Jean Rostand wrote, \\"Biologists come and go. The frog remains.\\" The beauty and sadness of Dick's world is he presents us with a believable scenario in which the frog is gone.  Metaphysics disguised as science fiction: a meditation on loneliness, solipsism, and empathic connection in a vast universe where, ultimately, we must take on faith that the idea of what the Greeks called a Koinos Kosmos (shared universe) when all we can feel directly is our own, individual, Idios Kosmos (private universe). The Hebresque paramour, Rachel Rosen, is the killable other, identified as such by signs so subtle, we might, as any private dick knows, be guilty of displaying them ourselves. When you consider that the trait sought for that separates the android organic machine from the \\"real\\" human is precisely the capacity to empathize, you realize that this is a major work by a master.	2004-03-01
US	35811293	R1WF2POVHBQPKX	0679761675	647444547	Martian Time-Slip	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Martian Time Slip: The Forbidden Future	This is a near-masterpiece about schizophrenia and society in the US in the 1950s, although it takes place on a sparsely populated Mars run by the UN, a desert world traversed by helicopters and inhabited most successfuly by indigenous blacks and the Arabs and the Jews of New Israel. Jack Bohlen, like the younger P.K.Dick, is a repairman of audio devices such as the anachronistically reel-to-reel tape-based encoding machine used by his eventual boss, the irrepressible but irresponsible Arnie Kott, the leader--the Supereme Goodmember--of the Water Worker's Union on Mars. Kott is a big fish in a small pond, and his beautiful red-headed girlfriend is easily as interested in Jack, who is married, with a normal child, as she is in her big spender boss.  There are at least two main problems: 1) they live on Mars, an essentially lonely red desert of frontier survival, despite its indigenous population of Aborigine-like \\"Bleekmen\\" and 2) schizophrenia is beginning to transmit laterally, like a contagion rather than a genetic disease.  This second problem is compounded by the potential usefulness of the afflicted, especially a boy named Manfred Steiner, whose father commits suicide early on, leaving Jack's wife, the phenobarbital-popping Silvia, to care for the healthy children. Hard-drinking cut throat businessman Kott, who likes to waste water in steam baths on a planet where scotch is cheaper than beer because it contains less water, realizes that the mentally ill on this small planet have real clairvoyant powers.  Without going into too much plot detail, there is much of interest here. It has been said that the greatest windfall of the space program is that it allowed us to look back and really see ourselves for the first time.  Dick's Mars here is a transported microcosm, with Bleekman as the indigenous people whose valuable civilizations have been temporarily trampled, their human reservoirs of knowledge insulted and enslaved. The sexism, suburban isolation, and prescribed drug use of the fifties has also landed undamaged on the red planet. The faith in American psychiatry is subtly spoofed as for example when the red planet's most highly regarded therapist (therapists on Mars stand in for agoraphobics, accomplishing their worldly affairs), the essentially petty Milton Glaub, diagnoses Kott as someone with an \\"oral, sucking problem.\\"  More to the point, schizophrenia itself, of which P.K.D. is thought to have had a (pharmaceutically enhanced) touch, is wonderfully described, both \\"internally\\" via the points of view of Jack and Manfred (and later, Arnie, the last one you would expect to be afflicted) and \\"externally\\" with reference to Swiss theorists who analyze it as essentially a disturbance in the time sense.  In this connection there is much talk of \\"gub\\" and \\"gubbish\\"-stand-in words for the schizophrenic's sense of dissolution, of a lack of meaning and the eventual entropic deconstruction of all presently held valuable.  The gub words, which emanate at one point even from the mechanical teaching robots (e.g., Mark Twain) at the local public school, alert us that clairvoyant Steiner's schizophrenia is potentiating Bohlen's latent affliction.  When Bohlen's father comes to the UN planet to put a down payment on land that will be used for emigrants, Arnie Kott is angry and scooped because he can see that his mafia-like control is coming to an end. Yet Jack's realtor father is also upset because the Steiner boy can look still further to see the demise of the housing complex that will contain the emigrants and enrich the land developers.  Indeed, the Steiner boy, along with we ourselves, can eventually project into a future that \\"jubs\\" us all.  Here jub joins with \\"kipple\\" in Dick's special lexicon of entropy-related words: jub is a mental version, in a way, of kipple, Dick's term for household clutter, gum wrappers and old newspapers and the like. \\"Ich liebe die Unwissenheit um die Zukunft\\" wrote Nietzsche: \\"I love not knowing the future.\\" Dick's schizophrenic seers here are afflicted by the weight of knowing too much, one of the great themes of human introspection-even in the Bible where it is a weight which makes the first couple plummet to Earth after Eve eats the forbidden apple. This is not \\"hard science fiction\\"--the origins of the Bleekmen and the breathability of the atmosphere are never addressed--but it is emotionally rivetting.e future.\\" Dick's schizophrenic seers here are afflicted by the weight of knowing too much, one of the great themes of human introspection-even in the Bible where it is a weight which makes the first couple plummet to Earth after Eve eats the forbidden apple. This is not \\"hard science fiction\\"--the origins of the Bleekmen and the breathability of the atmosphere are never addressed--but it is emotionally rivetting.	2004-02-15
US	35811293	R2T1YCJZCB76DS	0415173965	223601926	On Creativity	Books	5	45	50	N	N	Science and Art	Consisting of four essays and an interview with Louwrien Wijers, On Creativity provides a clear window into the ruminations of physicist David Bohm. Author of a textbook on quantum mechanics, Bohm is best known for his speculations on &quot;the implicate order,&quot; a world view which draws on quantum mechanics in an attempt to go behind colleague Niels Bohr's &quot;Copenhagen Interpretation&quot;-to wit, that the mathematics of quantum theory, which lead to paradoxes in the macroscopic realm, should not be construed as anything more than mathematical treatments that work.  This view, or rather non-view, was not acceptable to Einstein.  The basic solution of Bohm is to suggest that our entire three-dimensional reality, which shows evidence of nonlocality-the instantaneous measurable correlation of attributes of distant particles-is a projection of a deeper &quot;enfolded&quot; realm.  These essays, however, with titles such as &quot;On creativity,&quot; &quot;On the relationships of science and art,&quot; &quot;The range of imagination,&quot; and &quot;The art of perceiving movement&quot; are not overly recondite, abstruse, or abstract-let alone mathematical.  In On Creativity, for example, Bohr analyzes what makes not just a great, but a truly original scientist, such as Newton and Einstein (with whom Bohm corresponded).  Perhaps surprisingly, he includes Helen Keller and her teacher Anne Sullivan in their company. The reason has to do with Bohm's emphasis on an open-minded attitude, free of worldly obsessions such as career advancement or &quot;kicks,&quot; that allows the truly creative mind to bust through societal blinders and see the world as a whole in a new way.  In the case of Sullivan she exposed Keller, deaf and blind from birth, to water in a variety of settings, writing the word on her hand. At a given point, Keller, who was animalistic before, put the different stimuli together, seeing their underlying unity. This is the kind of unity that Bohr argues Newton discovered in his realization that planets, like apples, fall-only much more slowly-a view that dispensed with the prevailing notions of the Greeks, who distinguished between the perfection of the celestial, and the imperfection of the earthly realm. Einstein went further, showing that seemingly equidistant and simultaneous times and places really depended upon the relationship of observers to observed.  What is wonderful about Bohm is that he is deeply immersed in and respectful of, art and philosophy and religion. A close friend of Krishnamurti, he relates the work of Hegelian philosophy and Coleridgian poetics to scientific inquiry; he says he personally was inspired by artists. For example, in the essay, &quot;The Range of Imagination,&quot; he attempts to link art to science by starting with Owen Barfield's analysis of Coleridge's distinction between two kinds of imagination-primary imagination and fancy.  Although they are linked-mutually implicated is as everything else in Bohm's implicate universe-the primary imagination is much more than just putting things together in pleasing shapes.  Perhaps the single biggest insight in this book, which everywhere battles what Bohm considers to be the deleterious effects of fragmentation (and mediocrity, conformity, and &quot;the mechanical&quot;) in thinking, is his emphasis that, in great art, no less than great science, the truth is not necessarily what is liked. The truth is what we find *whether we like it or not*--and this scientific spirit needs to apply to art as well. In a way, however, this brilliant exposition creates a contradiction for Bohm, as he elsewhere identifies the true with the beautiful (in large part due to the aesthetic criterion of elegance for choosing among competing world views and mathematical theories).  The book might also be criticized for being stylistically bland even as it sings the praises of art, as well as perhaps politically naive in tracing human malaise to an abstractionso great as &quot;the fragmentary.&quot;  Nonetheless, this work is highly recommended for its analysis of the fascinating, still woefully underexplored terrain connecting art and science.so great as &quot;the fragmentary.&quot;  Nonetheless, this work is highly recommended for its analysis of the fascinating, still woefully underexplored terrain connecting art and science.	2004-02-10
US	35811293	R38IO0A8WHAY5Z	0679752978	516892648	Galactic Pot-Healer	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Extraterrestrial Archeology	.KD.'s secretly cerebral novel whose protagonist, an average Joe named, appropriately enough, Joe Fernwright, is a sound showcase for his usual talents. The bizarre story begins with Joe bored out of his mind at a desk job in the future-2040s, which was the future in 1963, when this book came out. Recently divorced (he half-heartedly longs for the company of his estranged wife, whose intelligence he respects), his boredom at his desk job is alleviated only by long-distance games such as guessing film titles from metaphorical rephrasings and telling jokes based on computerized translations (similar to Google's German translation program). The book's plot takes off when Joe is recruited by a huge alien intelligence known as Glimmung that uses the unusual expedient of leaving a message in the water closet of his toilet. (Later the Glimmung, on its home planet, will communicate from the bottom of the sea by means of messages on bottles.) Joe is recruited because of his expertise in ceramics and their reconstruction. The extraterrestrial monster seems to have a good heart but is intent on raising a cathedral from the bottom of the sea and reconstructing its shards, to which end the Glimmung-manifesting most reliably as two spinning rings, one of fire, the other of water, and sometimes a giant young female face-has recruited depressed and suicidal aliens (many of whose species Joe has had the privilege of eating) from all over the galaxy. The planet upon which they congregate affords Joe time for a dalliance with an ambitious humanoid female, who proves to be his confederate, along with an intelligent robot (who is funny, and has a tray table with phone built into his chest), as events unfold. The water-steeped planet has a long history of warfare and alien take-overs and is susceptible to Solaris-like manifestations, such as Joe's striking encounter, underwater, with his own future corpse. There is also the Book of the Kalends, which is said to correctly predict all future events, including Joe's destruction of the Glimmung (thus foiling the very purpose for which he was recruited to the extraterrestrial planet's surface).  Tension mounts as the Glimmung's equal and opposite foe the Black Glimmung engages it a battle to the death.  The foreign workers grapple with the meaning of fate, the choice between exciting danger and boring work at home, and the metaphysics of fate.  At one point the Glimmung engulfs all its recruits in its own body, allowing them a closer consciousness of both each other and the entity that surrounds them-endosymbiosis with humans as the symbionts of a higher power. As always, Dick's pulp provides the commercial rationale for a mediation on evolution and metaphysics.  A fun book whose alien archeology project reminds us of the preciousness of handicraft in age of mechanization.re events, including Joe's destruction of the Glimmung (thus foiling the very purpose for which he was recruited to the extraterrestrial planet's surface).  Tension mounts as the Glimmung's equal and opposite foe the Black Glimmung engages it a battle to the death.  The foreign workers grapple with the meaning of fate, the choice between exciting danger and boring work at home, and the metaphysics of fate.  At one point the Glimmung engulfs all its recruits in its own body, allowing them a closer consciousness of both each other and the entity that surrounds them-endosymbiosis with humans as the symbionts of a higher power. As always, Dick's pulp provides the commercial rationale for a mediation on evolution and metaphysics.  A fun book whose alien archeology project reminds us of the preciousness of handicraft in age of mechanization.	2004-01-31
US	35811293	R3MCU1KM2AZ754	0972869204	388333248	The Vanishing Moon	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Moonlight Off the Oasis: Coulson's Compelling American Saga	Whereas we in the west speak of, and see, a \\"man\\" on the moon, the Chinese tell stories of and see a rabbit on the moon. Poet, playwright, and editor Joseph Coulson's great first novel is hardly focused on the moon and yet it is, one might say, focused on the vanishing of beautiful things for which the elusive moon is a most, perhaps the most, romantic emblem: a unique book of pressed wildflowers; the innocence of children playing in the woods before they become conscious of a humiliating poverty; and the exceptional beauty of the unconsummated (preserving the sublime) over the requited (wallowing in the mire) sexual relationship.  A good novel asks more questions than it answers and displays a sort of secret symmetry; that is more than the case here. Coulson's compulsively readable multi-generational saga, a fugue of three first-person voices whose points of view and narrative overlap, is doubtless a powerful yet difficult way to craft a novel--as the intimacy of the \\"I\\" of each individual, pulling us into the depths of his or her consciousness, might seem to distract from the reader's having a narrative center of gravity. This is not the case here, perhaps because the voices are partitioned among two sexes and three generations-tent-stricken poverty and the end of childhood innocence outside Cleveland during the Great Depression in the first part of the novel (my favorite), told by a young Stephen Tollman; the Midwest in the middle of the century, seen through the eyes of the intelligent and beautiful Marxist pianist Katherine (a love interest for both Stephen and his surly, fascinating,1950s-mold-macho older brother, Phil) in the second part of the novel, squeezed into shape by WWII; and greater Detroit in the era of the late-60s Tigers in the third part, told through James, broken Phil's younger son, in the novel's third, Vietnam-and-Summer-of-Love part. A shorter fourth section, set partly in San Francisco, returns to the voice of Stephen, now a grown man working as a supervisor in a General Motors auto plant, and still in love with what he can never have. Coulson's fugue allows him to toggle between effects of extreme emotional intimacy, on the one hand, and panoramic narrative sweeps, on the other. The effect of the pulse-taking is that you feel you have had a genuine look into the cultural entrails-or under the hood, as it were-of the USA as it really ran throughout the whole middle of the 20th century. This is no mean achievement.  I love John Fante (Charles Bukowski's favorite writer, and author of Ask the Dust), and Coulson's Phil Tollman-a stubborn man beaten by still more stubborn life-reminds me of them. Although Phil Tollman (who never narrates but is, nonetheless, the gravitational center of the novel) evinces less unpredictable charm than the Fante and Bukowski protagonists, his mold is quite similar-and because Coulson shows us so much more than merely a close-up of this captivating, never-say-die hard guy mold--he shows us the detailed world around it, the racial, feminist and social change that hardened it into its final form--his novel gives us the contrast, and context, with which to understand this secretly endearing American enigma. As the lusted-after Katherine, a relative sophisticate compared to the deprived, handsome Tollman brothers says while walking through the woods where their beautiful sister once played, \\"Everything is unbearably over with.\\"  That is the nature of a kind of acute poetic consciousness, what Nabokov called \\"future memory\\": she (although not my favorite character) sees, as they in the pain of the memory of their own suffering (their sister has died in these woods) perhaps do not, that even the presence of the present is fated to become a memory, and that that fate helps to constitute it, already always giving it, one might (getting a little carried away) say the melancholy melody of the moon. Coulson plays this sempiternal melody, with subtle panache and understated mastery, inthe key of modern American history. Highly recommended (and much easier to get through than this review!).the key of modern American history. Highly recommended (and much easier to get through than this review!).	2004-01-19
US	35811293	RC6O8OKS8PLGY	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Hanging Judges Left Hanging (***1/2)	I listened to Grisham's The Brethren on tape and was pleasantly surprised by this wildly popular writer's tale of CIA director Teddy Maynard who engineers a nuclear incident to propel the seemingly clean-cut (but secretly gay) candidate to presidency in order to increase arms sales for defense contractors.  Grisham uses his courtroom familiarity well to tell the tale of three incarcerated ex-judges who set up a kangaroo court and a homesexual extortion ring from their Florida prison. Reality has a funny way of trumping fiction and it makes you wonder if this political-legal tale cut a little too close to the bone to be made into a movie. It sort of ended in media res, leaving one hanging (though not by said judges).	2004-01-06
US	35811293	RU4Y9CCAE4D4B	0060185406	901862594	Lonely Planets: The Natural Philosophy of Alien Life	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Aliens Thought to be Closer Than Many People Think	I hate to say it but I did not write the original review under my name. David sent me a copy of his book (which he signed with a picture of a bug-eyed alien smoking a joint) and it's a fine (if somewhat chatty) missive to the human species regarding all the latest thinking on ETs, from Roswell to Ball's Zoo hypothesis that we are being watched, perhaps by nearby probes, at close range. Originally I was piqued that he would write, in proofs at least, and without explanation, that my books were \\"infuriating\\"; maybe it was because of comments that played down exobiology (now called astrobiology) as a \\"science without a subject\\" and \\"the search for religion in a secular age.\\" Nonetheless, nonequilibrium thermodynamics suggests that, energetically, more intelligent beings would naturally be more likely to tap into available energy stores, suggesting an increased likelihood for the evolution of intelligence where and when life evolves (this contradicts both Richard Dawkins and Stephen Jay Gould's ideas that intelligence's evolution is essentially stochastic). Perhaps Dave is right not to dismiss (despite Michael Persinger's sensed presence transcranial stimulation experiments) some of the more popular alien abduction reports out of hand. My dad did this and all I can think is that his televised image, long since blasted beyond Alpha Centauri at the speed of light, has somehow triggered alien counter-intelligence to assume my identity as part of a disinformation campaign to dissuade authoritative new pronouncements of the increased likelihood of extraterrestrial intelligence. Don't believe it. I'm having Amazon look into it. In the meantime, I disavow the usurpers' (be they human or alien) cowardly tactics of assuming my identity and posting negative reviews on Amazon. I thus urge you to purchase and read Dr. Grinspoon's wake up call to Earthlings, which I certainly hope will *not* be confined, in the words of our review-usurping if electromagnetically advanced neighbors, to \\"the pantheon of oblivion.\\" This last incident has persuaded me more than ever that we are being watched, and even toyed with, not by a distant entity but by what P.K. Dick called the Zebra--an alien consciousness overlapping and disguising itself among the \\"kipple\\" (detritus) of everyday reality. As psychotherapist Karen Horney says, \\"[U]nder periods of inner stress...a person may become alienated [note that word] from his real self. He will then shift the major part of his energies to the task of molding himself, by a rigid system of inner dictates, into a being of absolute perfection....the drive for excelling may be relegated to fantasy, and the need for a vindictive triumph then manifests itself mainly in often irresistible, mostly unconscious impulses to frustrate, outwit, or defeat others in personal relations.\\"  The aliens are a lot closer than many people think.to \\"the pantheon of oblivion.\\" This last incident has persuaded me more than ever that we are being watched, and even toyed with, not by a distant entity but by what P.K. Dick called the Zebra--an alien consciousness overlapping and disguising itself among the \\"kipple\\" (detritus) of everyday reality. As psychotherapist Karen Horney says, \\"[U]nder periods of inner stress...a person may become alienated [note that word] from his real self. He will then shift the major part of his energies to the task of molding himself, by a rigid system of inner dictates, into a being of absolute perfection....the drive for excelling may be relegated to fantasy, and the need for a vindictive triumph then manifests itself mainly in often irresistible, mostly unconscious impulses to frustrate, outwit, or defeat others in personal relations.\\"  The aliens are a lot closer than many people think.	2003-12-23
US	35811293	R24R6W0082YI7O	0913369705	235216689	"M" Is For Malice	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Entertaining Listen	Duly chided for not reading anything else in this series, I compounded the chastisement (of another reviewer, see below) by not reading, but only listening to this one, on a Thanksgiving drive to Arkansas. I wasn't expecting all that much but I was pleasantly surprised; it kept me awake and interested, and the character of the female private investigator, as well as her love interests, was deftly handled. The murderer at the end seemed somewhat pulled out of a hat, but I guess that is an occupational hazard of formulaic fiction. It served its mysterious purpose.	2003-12-04
US	35811293	RNF1T8U6BVTT4	0151005745	327855127	Master Class: Scenes from a Fiction Workshop	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A perfect ten on the snobometer--and a breath of fresh air!	Hype aside, this is a great book--the best I've ever read on the mixed motives of a literary calling. I can honestly say that, after milking it along in Columbia's Butler Library, I thanked my lucky stars I am a hemi-semi-demi autodidact: in other words, I felt as if I had just emerged through the other side of an MFA program. West's style is perfect for elucidating the nuances of a writing workshop among gifted prose stylists. My heading comes from his ideological allergy to airport reading and the oft-hideous array displayed on the bestseller lists. He doesn't mention it, but did you know the NY Times had to remove L.Ron Hubbard's Dianetics off its list because it just wouldn't go away on its own? Paul West is an unreconstructed literary snob but for my money (like I say, I got it at the library) he's a breath of fresh air! I haven't delved into his fiction but I have a sneaking suspicion his nonfiction prose could not be more more surgically suited to the pedagogic purposes displayed in full flower here. The one thing I disagree with him (if I may put it in such a non-lapidary manner) is that fiction is stranger than nonfiction. But his five-star encomium to the powers of the human imagination is a breathtaking display of what might be described as &quot;prolixity with purpose.&quot; And yet, his core lesson in the crafting of prose narrows down, brilliantly, to a single word: contrast. (I hope I didn't ruin the plot for anyone!)	2003-11-19
US	35811293	R3K4FZAY44JIP	0813527406	453038207	Emergence of Life on Earth: A Historical and Scientific Overview	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The Best Origins of Life Book to Date	Trained in philosophy, but more than conversant in chemistry and biochemistry, Iris Fry does the scientific community a splendid service in offering this comprehensive and up-to-date look at the scientific work being done on life's origins. She points out that it is ultimately a metaphysical matter, resting on faith--but on faith backed up by the splendid track record of scientific empiricism--that life evolved, most likely on Earth, from inanimate matter. But as you read this detailed and wonderfully referenced work the odds of life appearing otherwise appreciably diminish, and a picture, soberly stated and carefully argued, of a metabolic (pre-genetic) origin prior to genes subtly insinuates itself into your rational consciousness. My favorite part of the work is the reference to Jeffrey Wicken whose critique of Manfred Eigen's hypercyle theory leads me to suggest that a selfish RNA world would no more be likely to encumber its streamlined replicants with bodies than an Olympic sprinter would be to run a  three-legged race. I am not sure about her Kantian interpretations and she misses some important work on the origins of life, such as Clifford Matthews hydrogen cyanide world; she also does not (in my opinion) sufficiently ground life's early cyclical processes in cyclical nonequilibrium thermodynamic systems. But you can't have everything--where would you put it?<br />I love the fact that she is a philosopher and outside the various factions she surveys. This means she has no axe to grind and you can trust her as a fair guide among the competing views which, she points out, will increasingly come together as science moves forward. Best read along with Freeman Dyson's revised, 1999 edition entitled Origins of Life.	2003-11-19
US	35811293	R2BL3LO5EYV9JM	0471227285	402868764	The Candlestick Course	Books	4	51	55	N	N	Shooting Stars and Belt Holds and Dark Cloud Cover	This is a great basic primer on candlestick charting techniques by the guy who allegedly introduced it into the west fifteen years ago. All the basic one, two, and three formations from spinning tops and high wave candles to piercing lines and cloud covers to three soldiers, harami cross and evening doji stars are there.  It is pretty amazing that candlesticks are so much simpler but contain more information than standard western tick and point-and-figure charts. Among the things I learned were that hammers must have shadows twice as long as the real body, and the way windows (gaps) are used for support in Japanese trading. The book is arranged with quizzes, and while repetive (and there are a couple of minor mistakes, including on one of the questions), Nisson really drives home the message. Among the things he emphasizes are that candlesticks are best for signaling reversals, and that they are best supplemented by western techniques for price targets and confirmation. Although not quite a complete novice, I'm a slow reader but it only took me three hours to read this in the library. The last part of the book takes you through a chart and points out the formations-dispelling the common critique that technical analysis is completely subjective. Highly recommended and quite a contrast to the information overload of many other trading books.	2003-11-19
US	35811293	R7UFBNHZDE4QV	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	5	17	29	N	N	Surprisingly Funny	This book, which, while not sacrosanct, surely deserves its reputation. I found it surprisingly funny. E.B. White in the Introduction tells us that his old professor William Strunk once seriously advocated introducing the word \\"studentry\\" in place of the phrase \\"student body,\\" which he found horrid.  Now studentry is worse, and we can all be glad it was never adopted. But Strunk, despite his observations on fiction writing in the last chapter (including, surprisingly, the old saw that any rule can be broken in capable hands), is primarily a teacher not a writer. The most famous single bit of advice he gives is \\"Omit needless words,\\" which Stephen King recycles in his On Writing book. (Stephen King seems to recycle other things-I just noticed that Theodore Sturgeon, the real life model for Vonnegut's science fiction writer Kilgore Trout-made his name with a story called \\"It.\\" Oh well-Shakespeare did it: talented artists borrow, great ones steal.) This, of course, is sound advice-although pretty much completely ignored by all politicians, scientists and philosophers. Hemingway took the advice and look what happened to him. I digress. One of the funny bits for me was Strunk's analysis of roadside signs and their effect on linguistic evolution.  The correct adjective for being capable of catching fire is \\"inflammable,\\" Strunk reminds us-but it had to be shortened (as did Throughway into Thruway) in order to fit on those sloshing trucks full of toxic liquids.  It also, Strunk happily sneers, appears to illiterates to be negated by the prefix, which might make idiots to think something was fireproof rather than the opposite. (Something somewhat similar happened in one of Dr. Ruth's books, when the word \\"conception\\" and \\"contraception\\" somehow switched places; the book had to be \\"recalled.\\") Strunk is very good on giving us shortcuts to distinguish between \\"which\\" and \\"that,\\" in analyzing and correcting common mistakes and showing how they both reflect, and perpetuate, a sloppiness of thinking.  Some of his pet peeves, however, such as \\"enormous\\"-a word, he tells us, which should always contain a connotation of the hideous, and not be used simply to mean \\"very big\\"-have been superceded (as in fairness he suspected they might) by the continuing evolution (devolution?) of the language. Some people considered to be good writers flagrantly flout Strunk's elements (elements?) of style. Umberto Eco, for example, routinely interpolates foreign phrases (which for him would be non-Italian ones) into his prose. Stephen Jay Gould is guilty both of foreign phrase insertion and the putting of quotes-to distance himself from them-around idiomatic phrases (which he nonetheless apparently feels compelled to use).  I recently heard on the radio an executive editor at Miriam-Webster say that, because of the internet and global communications, new words make it to the dictionary in twice the time they used to-in five years on average rather than ten.  Other words, like \\"microrecorder\\" (used to read microfiche, a pre-computer technology) have been removed from the dictionary.  I received a form letter from a well-respected Southern lawyer yesterday that would have struck out with Strunk because of its adverb \\"hopefully\\"-which is almost always means more than you want it to. Hopefully I will end this review. (Hoping referring to my mood, that I will, say, rise in the Amazon reviewer ranks? Or do I hope I will end the review?) Sloppy language is rampant: among the biggest blah-blah phrases are: \\"the fact that,\\" \\"it is interesting to note,\\" and \\"as evidenced by.\\" Strunk busts pretentious writing wide open. And yet he is acutely aware of the limits of his analysis. This book, a labor of love by a lover of language, is great to read if you want to communicate (and think) more clearly.loppiness of thinking.  Some of his pet peeves, however, such as \\"enormous\\"-a word, he tells us, which should always contain a connotation of the hideous, and not be used simply to mean \\"very big\\"-have been superceded (as in fairness he suspected they might) by the continuing evolution (devolution?) of the language. Some people considered to be good writers flagrantly flout Strunk's elements (elements?) of style. Umberto Eco, for example, routinely interpolates foreign phrases (which for him would be non-Italian ones) into his prose. Stephen Jay Gould is guilty both of foreign phrase insertion and the putting of quotes-to distance himself from them-around idiomatic phrases (which he nonetheless apparently feels compelled to use).  I recently heard on the radio an executive editor at Miriam-Webster say that, because of the internet and global communications, new words make it to the dictionary in twice the time they used to-in five years on average rather than ten.  Other words, like \\"microrecorder\\" (used to read microfiche, a pre-computer technology) have been removed from the dictionary.  I received a form letter from a well-respected Southern lawyer yesterday that would have struck out with Strunk because of its adverb \\"hopefully\\"-which is almost always means more than you want it to. Hopefully I will end this review. (Hoping referring to my mood, that I will, say, rise in the Amazon reviewer ranks? Or do I hope I will end the review?) Sloppy language is rampant: among the biggest blah-blah phrases are: \\"the fact that,\\" \\"it is interesting to note,\\" and \\"as evidenced by.\\" Strunk busts pretentious writing wide open. And yet he is acutely aware of the limits of his analysis. This book, a labor of love by a lover of language, is great to read if you want to communicate (and think) more clearly.	2003-09-25
US	35811293	R2WPWZ7LPQ5GIT	0684841444	412193908	Because They Wanted to: Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Real Thing	Mary Gaitskill is the real thing, as Hem said about F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Coke says about itself.  She is one of those writers you feel writes in black blood, and only tells lies to clarify the truth. Like Bukowski, she is attracted to the ugly truth far more than representation of the beautiful or the good. Her detailed descriptions of female pixies and the inexorable pivots on which their love lives slip into what would be despair if they were not so inured to pain from its constant presence, her often seamless use of flashbacks in narrators or protagonists chaotically attracted to their abusive pasts, and her beautiful, precise use of language separate her from the pack. Her ability to pierce (and possess) with her putatively lesbian mind the consciousness of young males on the make, or a father disappointed in his daughter, her unabashed confrontations with the brutality of the real--her stubborn prying open of a literary window between the twin horrors of youthful innocence stripped away by male desire and firm female flesh by cellulite in the bad joke of time--her failure to comfort herself with pabulum, her skewering of the dishonest and the false with a quill tipped in poison love are what make her great.	2003-09-24
US	35811293	R2E67LMO3H1RI3	0399150978	476868297	Idlewild	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Fully realized science fiction fantasy	I don't finish most books I pick up but this one I did. My (half) brother sent me a copy. He wrote a Star Trek episode or two and lived in Studio City and his experience with the craft of plotting really shows. I don't mind saying I'm both proud of him and a little envious. I would have liked to have seen more about the etiology of &quot;Black Ep,&quot; the global human population-destroying virus, and I was curious what made the Idlewild youths more than human (although the characters' iteration was enough to suspend my disbelief). I also thought there was something maybe a little too easy about a virtual world in which almost anything is possible. Another qualm is the kind of Sam Spady tough talk of the protagonist, although it was quite often often clever and suffused with a low-burn anger-alienation that was easy for me to identify with and kept me turning the pages. Without giving away too much of the plot, I found the &quot;dream-within-a-dream&quot; motif brilliant, and I wish this book and Nick continued success in all his endeavors. A fully realized science fiction fantasy.	2003-09-09
US	35811293	R22X07HSKA6T8T	1582431159	856355631	The Law of Averages: New and Selected Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hyperrealistic Chekov	Although seemingly simply written, these are some of the most sophisticated stories I have ever read. Barthelme is so even tempered, so subtly loving, and so good at fixing upon key details that bring a scene to life that his work is both a joy to read and a reward to study. His subject, the \\"New South,\\" with its strip malls and pierced adolescents, is much less differentiated than Faulkner's, and much less expansive than Hemingway's grandiose global stage of writerly operations. Yet Barthelme's prose is more than up to the task of rendering this less differentiated south, and his writerly consciousness, on covert display in these finely wrought works of art whose mundane subject matter belies their grandeur, exhibits a cryptic machismo beyond Hemingway's would be all-inclusive ken. Barthelme also shines in comparison to the gargantuan novels and experiments in verbal excess now routinely turned out by the graduates of MFA programs, and predictably praised on book jackets, in what, splashing ink rather than light, amount to acts of mercantile onanism by literate but not literary employees of publishing conglomerates who mistake grandiloquence for greatness, which they imagine they can manufacture. I am guessing, but Barthelme may have gained an advantage at the beginning of his story writing career because he wanted to distinguish himself (as detailed in the Introduction) from his older brother Donald Barthelme, whose literary experiments, though widely admired, inspired him to gravitate towards a different aesthetic. The result, in its mature form, on display here is not only an aesthetic, but a human triumph: the stories, as apparently the man, never overreach and, like most great art, conceal difficult, highly wrought craft in t seemingly effortless compositions. The novel has been defined as \\"a mirror taken on the road.\\" Not everyone will identify with the hyperrealistic images captured (the protagonists' recurring fetish for pretty television newscasters comes to mind), but anyone interested in art must admire the power and precision of these stories' narrative lens.to mind), but anyone interested in art must admire the power and precision of these stories' narrative lens.	2003-08-10
US	35811293	R2U0SMWUTEJGX4	039592474X	5636820	Bob the Gambler	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Losing It	The night after I finished this book I found myself before a slot machine in a small casino. I had a feeling and put a quarter in. I won and won again. I stuffed the quarters in my pockets but there were no buckets available. When I lost two quarters in a row I left. Unfortunately this was a dream and I awoke empty handed. Bob the Gambler is a beautifully observed, enviably perfect novel by a master who doesn't seem flashy because he stays within his means. It is also a surprisingly, even surreally loving story.  The novel centers around the fissioned nuclear family of down-on-his luck Biloxi architect Bob Kaiser, a plump transplant moved by the Mississippi coastal decay before it was invaded by &quot;gussied-up Motel 6 hotel rooms [and] an ocean of slicked-back hair,&quot; his pretty, witty, and wonderful wife of nine years Jewel, who is tough and stable, and yet the first to thirst for casino action, Jewel's daughter RV, an amazingly rendered, very sweet fourteen year old mid-90's teenager whom Bob adores, and Frank, the family dog. All the principals, as well as Bob's mother, whom we meet later in the book, are expert at the art of the cryptic tough-talking but secretly loving epigram. One of the great charms of this book is the depths of love of the family members both concealed by and revealed by their fragmented banter and quips. There are some wonderful moments and descriptions of daily life and teenage rearing, the euphoric swirl of casino gambling, and the decrepit Mississippi coast. The lasting impression one is left from this book, aside from the controlled brilliance of Barthelme's prose, is in my opinion a meditation on the meaning of money vis-&agrave;-vis love. Bob's wife's name, Jewel, is a token of facets of wealth unobtainable by any number of markers or wild infatuation-like risks; theirs, an irreducible love that includes and absorbs others (such as RV) in its understated wake, is the multicolored antithesis of liaisons such as those between David Duke (who make a cameo appearance)-and a sprightly young thing-of any coupling that can be price tagged, exchanged, or discarded. The casino and noncasino lights that surround Jewel, in her preternatural (and perhaps ultimately unrealistic, or at least extremely rare) stability, enact a preciousness beyond money and its temporary accumulations. They symbolize the nonmonetary values of the gift of being, the privilege not of accumulating but of existing-of the privilege of being alive, a spectator of phenomena in a world whose mortal decay, far from being its downfall, guarantees the preciousness of the light show it displays. Anyone who has taken junkets to Atlantic City may have noticed how on the flight there everyone chatters; they are full of excitement on hope. The way back is different. Everyone, or almost everyone has lost. They are quiet-until the plane lands, at which point they clap. Why? Because, although they have lost their money, they are newly appreciative of the far more precious gift of being alive. That is the mini-miracle, the lottery ticket, the stiff Barthelme hits for us in this wonderful paean to human frailty and true, tough love. In a way, Barthelme, his heart bigger than any red chip, says in this book the exact opposite of comedian Steven Wright's quip, &quot;You can't have everything, where would you put it?&quot;  Barthelme says (with mathematician Paul Erdos) you do have everything, you have it all, already-you are infinitely rich.(who make a cameo appearance)-and a sprightly young thing-of any coupling that can be price tagged, exchanged, or discarded. The casino and noncasino lights that surround Jewel, in her preternatural (and perhaps ultimately unrealistic, or at least extremely rare) stability, enact a preciousness beyond money and its temporary accumulations. They symbolize the nonmonetary values of the gift of being, the privilege not of accumulating but of existing-of the privilege of being alive, a spectator of phenomena in a world whose mortal decay, far from being its downfall, guarantees the preciousness of the light show it displays. Anyone who has taken junkets to Atlantic City may have noticed how on the flight there everyone chatters; they are full of excitement on hope. The way back is different. Everyone, or almost everyone has lost. They are quiet-until the plane lands, at which point they clap. Why? Because, although they have lost their money, they are newly appreciative of the far more precious gift of being alive. That is the mini-miracle, the lottery ticket, the stiff Barthelme hits for us in this wonderful paean to human frailty and true, tough love. In a way, Barthelme, his heart bigger than any red chip, says in this book the exact opposite of comedian Steven Wright's quip, &quot;You can't have everything, where would you put it?&quot;  Barthelme says (with mathematician Paul Erdos) you do have everything, you have it all, already-you are infinitely rich.	2003-06-26
US	35811293	RZ92GWNDMAS0G	1859844111	989731813	The Spirit of Terrorism	Books	4	26	32	N	N	The Spectacle is Real: Enantiodromia	Jean Baudrillard, perhaps the most aphoristic and clear writing (if not necessarily the most profound) of the postmodernists here wields his phallic pen to cut to the core of the twin tower destruction at the hands of Bin Ladens terrorists. He argues, straightforwardly and convincingly, that the power of terrorism is not contained by its Islamic wielders, but is also a kind of global self-destruction of the globalized American superpower. Anyone could recognize that media and imagery were at the heart of the terror in Manhattan-that part of the terror was the effective use, far out of proportion to the expenditure made, of comandeering the media to call attention (e.g., the police prefix date, 911) to itself and the helplessness of a crisis for which there is no effective solution. As Baudrillard points out, calling the suicides \\"cowards\\" only underscored the inability to answer this realized desire to humiliate \\"civilization\\" (what has become of civilization) on the part of those who were willing to put their own death into play. Baudrillard cites Nietzsche with regard to martyrdom being the enemy of truth but in the same breath demonstrates that the terrorists' goal is not a final solution via biological or nuclear warfare so much as a confrontation, a dual that will make the west lose face.  He suggests that WW III indeed already happened: it was the cold war. And that now we are in the midst of WW IV which is an anitbody-like reaction of Orwellian globalization against itself.  He identifies terror with evil which he suggests tends to exist precisely in the fading of the boundaries between good and evil. An interesting analysis that never mentions, but links to the concept of \\"enantiodromia\\"-adopting the enemies tactics to defeat them. The Israelis did this in becoming nationalistic and materialistic to adopt a state, and the terrorists do it in using the media and its imagery to stage what amounts to a bad Hollywood movie whose extra horror owes to the fact that the spectacle is real.that the spectacle is real.	2003-06-23
US	35811293	R1GGLH45RN5RZ3	0316592102	885138585	Demonology: Stories	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Virtuosity is its own reward	Well I can't say I read all of the stories but I did read, according to the Little-Brown flap, \\"the astounding title story, which has already been reprinted in four different anthologies [and is] a masterpiece of remembrance and thwarted love.\\" Would have to disagree. The story, which contains many sentence fragments. Such as this one. Such as lists of brand name candy, collected by children on Halloween. Is based, literally, on a pun. Presumably it is based on the untimely death of the author's sister, and the difficulties of fictionalizing such an event. Memories, circulating around the time of Halloween, are jogged by snapshots. It's a clever story, heartfelt. It's not a masterpiece. \\"Boys\\" is another piece of piece of pleasing postmodern claptrap, which, while modestly arresting (each sentence begins with the word, \\"Boys\\") contains such boners (in the Nabokovian sense) as \\"the boysmasturbate constantly....three times a day in some cases...at the mere sound of certain words, words that sound like other words....beast reminding them of breast.\\" Excuse me but this I can't imagine-but then Catholicism seems to be a big theme for Moody, and perhaps there is a screw loose that renders my ideas of onanism nonuniversal. In fact, if I didn't mention, most all the sentences also start with \\"Boys enter the house...\\" as in (p. 243) boys enter the house carrying cases of beer.\\" Again, a recognizably Catholic theme. Another story is called Ineluctable Modality of the Vaginal which, except for the obvious nonpretentiousness of the title, I can't get in to here. \\"Full of deep feeling and stunningly beautiful language,\\" the flap copy continues, \\"the stories in Demonology offer the richest pleasures that fiction can afford.\\"  Amen. P.S. The book is dedicated to A.L.O., A.M.S., and R.H.S.  (I'm assuming those are three lovers who wouldn't want to see their names together on the same page-I think it was Delillo who started the multiple lover dedication rage.)	2003-06-21
US	35811293	R3NXD2AQVJHHRG	0486266907	691105951	Ethan Frome (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Edith Wharton Writes Like Henry James if He Were A Man	This spare, brilliantly observed, psychologically astute, and mercifully short novel by Edith Wharton (who \\"writes like Henry James if he were a man,\\" to quote Northampton poet Connely Ryan!) is an acute observation of hopeless love between eponymous hero<br />Ethan Frome and Mattie, his wife's cousin, a girl struck with poverty when her ambitious father (who moves from the hilltowns to Connecticut) dies in debt. The action is pieced together in a \\"vision of [Ethan Frome's] story\\" by an intelligent , relatively<br />sophisticated visitor to the small town of Starkfield, Massachusetts. (Wharton, who writes an introduction only to this of all her books, describes her use of this literary device to make plausible the narrator's unwinding of the tale.) Frome's handsome but totally dejected looks, and limp, captivate the<br />visitor/narrator--we know something horrible has happened, but not what, and the suspense thus created is happily unwound by the reader turning pages. Wharton's simple story of mutual unrequited love is indeed a masterful combination of time-encapsulated New England vernacular, emotional insight into the taciturn, easily bruised male ego, and Chekovlike descriptions of frozen landscapes  that nonetheless have more life in them than the majority of Starkfield's sickly inhabitants. She impresses upon us the way the awful landscape literally sucks the townspeople in, turning them in the end into tombstones, nature's bookmarks above the dead and frozen bones. Ethan Frome would like nothing better than to escape from his wife, a kind of sallow-faced silent henpecker, a sickly woman, expert in home remedies, seven-years-older than Frome but \\"already an old woman.\\" The contrast between Wharton's descriptions of ugly Zenobia and beautiful young Mattie are striking,  and the unrequited love and lust between the forbidden lovers, although it dies on the vine, is presented with such masterful delicacy that the very absence of sex here is more sensuous than many a modern graphic display. Heartbreakingly poignant, this perfectly realized novella, despite its simplicity, captures the indomitable power of the 19th century landscape to turn to ice even the most ardent hearts and truest tears.dern graphic display. Heartbreakingly poignant, this perfectly realized novella, despite its simplicity, captures the indomitable power of the 19th century landscape to turn to ice even the most ardent hearts and truest tears.	2003-06-20
US	35811293	R1P4RX27789URX	0316925411	200852558	Brief Interviews with Hideous Men: Stories	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Too Clever By 49.999 (etc.) %	David Foster Wallace is clearly an accomplished and, at times, brilliant writer. If it were only a matter of judging his playfulness, innovation, and enthusiasm-sheer energy-it would be hard to imagine him scoring higher. For example, one of his conceits, Datum Centurio, features a hard copy version of a future (2096) dictionary which defines \\"date.\\" The innovative \\"story\\" mimicks the complete typographical layout of a real dictionary and notes to the effect that with \\"compatible hardware\\" (e.g., a neural plug) we could get the entire \\"pentasensory\\" (i.e., virtual reality) illustrative support. The dictionary definition traces the ancestral origins of date to earlier in the century (i.e., our time) when the term was used as a \\"euphymym\\" for \\"genital interface\\" between prostitutes and johns. In the interim, we are led to gather from the virtual dictionary entry, the term hard date has developed for virtual reality-assisted sex, with soft date being reserved for state-approved procreative acts.  Never mind that aesthetically wise Nabokov said he \\"detests typographical tricks\\" (of which this entire story, in a sense, is a great example). John Fante wrote that \\"failure is more beautiful than success\\"; Nietzsche said \\"power makes stupid\\"-David Foster Wallace is that triple delight-a huge critical and commercial success who is young to boot. But Datum Centurio is, like much of Wallace's work here, on the border of being too clever to be clever. While he is possessed of Herculean artistic resources, he has come down (or rather up!) with what might (without pulling any punches) be called Updikeitis-1) \\"the lamentable tendency among wordsmiths of the highest order to have anything important to say.\\" Wallace enjoys technical virtuosity of the highest order. Indeed, it is so high that, in the best of the anthology's stories, \\"Death is Not the End\\" and, especially, \\"Forever Overhead,\\" we forget that we are reading about a) a pot-bellied poet basking in his success by a swimming pool and b) a self-conscious thirteen-year-old boy virgin, again at a pool, braving a dive off the high board. In this rather brilliant, latter story, there is a \\"SN CK BAR\\" and you (the story is told in the second person) on the ladder watch \\"the [older girls'] bottoms...in soft thin cloth, tight nylon stretch. The good bottoms move up the ladder like pendulums in liquid, a gentle uncrackable code. The girls' legs make you think of deer. Look bored.\\" That is great writing, and it contrasts greatly with the irritating logorrhea of \\"The Depressed Person\\" (an immersion experience into the run-on sentence world and new-age therapies of a depressed person) and \\"Octet\\" (presented as a postmodern Pop Quiz, replete with metastasizing Derridean footnotes and revealing self-reflexive references to Johnny Carson's tendency to laugh at the badness of his own jokes).  Technical virtuosity does not alone a great story make, especially when it is spread ad infinitum over the stale wonder bread of a hopeless subject. It is clear Wallace is concerned with the problem of writing honest prose in an age of capitalist appropriations, as well as with social alienation and the need to be liked and recognized-an obvious primary motivating force of many writers, and perhaps all celebrities.  But again these are themes are relatively minor compared to Wallace's talent, and thus should be ditched, as well as his overindulgence of his tendency for mannerist prose. Writers must live, too-and, in this volume anyway, Foster Wallace's productions seem largely stillborn, the strange fruit of academic incubation, mutated into disturbing, if fascinating shapes, by intrauterine exposure to (I'm guessing!) methamphetamine sulfate. \\"Signifying Nothing\\" (like his novel \\"Infinite Jest,\\" another title derived from Shakespeare, who Wallace nonetheless says in an interview he likes only parts of) is a story about a son who confronts his father in a truck with his memory of his father wagging his limp penisin his face, which the father denies. Please. The title story, which runs as a refrain interspersed in four sections throughout the book, is as annoyingly sexist as its ultimately trite subject matter (what guys blather on about girls) and is hampered by the saminess (despite the author's attempts to capture vernacular variety) of the too-mannered, too cryptically intellectual male voices. The effect is of viewing Brett Eaton Ellis's subject matter (depraved L.A. humanity) through a geographically wider, intellectual, and postmodern parodic lens. Who cares? Why hold a mirror up to nature, no matter how gilded and exquisite the mirror, if the reflection is of an unmitigated [material]? One [sic] reads Bukowski because there is a great soul there, not because we get a nice impressionist description of how tanning lotion stings when used as a  lubricant. I do think Wallace is a great talent, and I look forward to his forthcoming work on Cantor and infinity, which seems like a worthy match for his interests and ability.in his face, which the father denies. Please. The title story, which runs as a refrain interspersed in four sections throughout the book, is as annoyingly sexist as its ultimately trite subject matter (what guys blather on about girls) and is hampered by the saminess (despite the author's attempts to capture vernacular variety) of the too-mannered, too cryptically intellectual male voices. The effect is of viewing Brett Eaton Ellis's subject matter (depraved L.A. humanity) through a geographically wider, intellectual, and postmodern parodic lens. Who cares? Why hold a mirror up to nature, no matter how gilded and exquisite the mirror, if the reflection is of an unmitigated [material]? One [sic] reads Bukowski because there is a great soul there, not because we get a nice impressionist description of how tanning lotion stings when used as a  lubricant. I do think Wallace is a great talent, and I look forward to his forthcoming work on Cantor and infinity, which seems like a worthy match for his interests and ability.	2003-06-20
US	35811293	R3GU6ILKR1IH8Y	0140437401	599461110	The Devil and Daniel Webster (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Benet's Twain-Like Take: Is Lucifer a Foreigner?	This lightweight (literally, if not figuratively) story of the hapless farmer Jabez Stone, of Cross Corners, New Hampshire, and his rescue from a cavalier deal with the devil by Daniel Webster is an entertaining, patriotic lark. Although Webster was a lawyer, the narrator tells us, and the \\"the biggest man...next to God...He never got to be President.\\" Published in 1937, and with a homespun Twain-like love of freedom and the wry vigilance which watches over it, Stephen Vincent Benet's entertaining lark, set \\"in the border country, where Massachusetts joins Vermont and New Hampshire\\" is patriotic without being jingoistic or nationalistic. At the end, after the narrator informs us that  devil keeps clear of Marshfield and hasn't been seen in New Hampshire he concludes: \\"I'm not talking about Massachusetts or Vermont.\\"	2003-06-04
US	35811293	R2UVX324V6K1Y7	0486285154	922733443	The Birth of Tragedy (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	19	25	N	N	The Greatest Work of Art Criticism Ever Written	Forget Wagner, whose disgruntled cacophony posing as music is nicely dispatched by Oscar Wilde in one of his plays with a comparative quip when somebody rings an old and disturbingly noisy doorbell. Forget Wagner because The Birth of Tragedy is the greatest work of art criticism ever written. It is also, despite being in print for a century, an underexplored gold mine for artists and intellectuals. This is Nietzsche's first book: it contains en ovo the thoughts of this great writer and thinker who had a formative influence on Heidegger and through him Derrida, the two greatest post-Nietzschean philosophers. Nietzsche's great theme is the infinite possibility opened up by Greek culture in 6th century B.C., in the time of Heraclitus and the birth of tragedy-the culture that spawned not only democracy and science but which, like a brood of many eggs only some of which have hatched (or quantum possibility before measurement \\"collapses\\" the wave function into reality)-much more besides--the culture beside whose tragedic productions (by Aeschylus and Sophocles, not Euripedes, whom Nietzsche shows lost touch with the essence of tragedy) modern cultural productions not only do not measure up, but often seem at best, as Nietzsche says, like a \\"caricature.\\"  The loss of art traced by Nietzsche is itself-well, not tragic, no-less than tragic: sad let us say. Not only a highly creative artist-like philosopher, but a multilingual philologist who read ancient Greek in the original, Nietzsche beams his laser-like analysis with astounding clarity into this lost realm of possibility. It is as if he stuck a bookmark into the Tome of Time, showing us the very best part of an otherwise often dry and rather bad (and perhaps overly long!) book of which we collectively are the author, called Culture. What is crucial to emphasize in B of T is Nietzsche's conclusion (or assumption) that (in its most famous line) \\"existence is only justified as an aesthetic phenomenon.\\" Thus ancient Greek tragedy is not just a random subject, or one art form among others. It is the aesthetic experience par excellence, the greatest overcoming of the perils of existence into a worthy production of art humans ever developed. Nietzsche links the success of Aeschylean and Sophoclean tragedy to the brief fruitful intercourse (like that between men and women, which keeps new people coming despite often-fractious sexual relationships) between two aesthetic strains. One he identifies with the Greek messenger god of the sun, Apollo,  the other with the dismembered god of wine, Dionysos. Dionysos also is not one god among others. Rather, it was to him that all the (originally religious) tragedies were devoted and, Nietzsche tells us, when other actors appeared on the sacred precursor to the Greek stage they were not to be taken as realistic but as avatars, idealized other versions, of Dionysos. Now the most crucial thing to realize about Dionysos is that \\"he\\" is split into pieces and his split pieces represent the fundamental, and contradictory, fact of the universe: that although all is one (to borrow a philosophical truism) this One is split into many. This primordial splitting (cf. Heidegger's distinction between individual beings and Being) is, according to Nietzsche, regarded by the ancient Greeks as itself the ur-source of human suffering. From Dionysos's tears came mankind, from his smile the gods. Now Nietzsche says that the Apollinian aesthetic strain manifests in the clarity of dreams-which show discrete-although ultimately illusory-images. These images are similar to those that appear before the chorus (crucial to tragedy but dispensed with by Euripedes), and before the spectators, in the form of the actors of the tragic spectacle. Thus the tragical spectacle displayed shows itself to be a dreamlike illusion of the culture, not a representation of reality per se. Just as, after we stare at the sun, we see spots before our eyes so, Nietzsche says, after we stare into the abyss we see the tragedy with its chorus and ideal human characters. The Dionysian element Nietzsche identifies with drunkenness and dissolution, the opposite of the clarity of dream imagery, made public on the Greek stage. The Dionysian in a sense represents the One, or the movement from the individual (seen a la Schopenhauer and Vedic metaphysics as a mayan illusion of universe that \\"I\\"s itself) back to the One; the Apollinian the illusory clarity of the skin-encapsulated individual. (Nietzsche's own individuality, and brain, were compromised by Treponema spirochetes, real Dionysian avatars of the syphilis that eventually killed him.)  One of the most fascinating things about Nietzsche's exquisitely crafted analysis is the way it shows science, no less than Euripides, to be motivated by Socrates' false humility and dreams of total knowledge. \\"Who is this demigod?\\" Nietzsche asks of Socrates-whose reign of reasonableness, passed on to Plato, Aristotle, and the Church scholastics-defines much of the modern world.  Socrates created the secular tradition, raising knowledge over aesthetics and giving mysticism a bad name. Nietzsche points out that Plato burnt his plays after coming into contact with his teacher-and that the compromise, the Platonic dialogues, were in fact the prototype of a new, Socratized art form-the novel. Thus, startlingly Nietzsche suggests the novel itself is a debased form of art-a  Euripideanized, Socratized attempt to make the primal aesthetic experience more representative, reasonable, and realistic. Euripedes (he later recanted, but his influence went on) dispensed with the tragic core of stagecraft, and today we  accept that drama is about individual characters in all their oddity and imperfections-rammed at us unremittingly with the hegemony of plot and wordy deus ex machina explanations in the aesthetically poisonous, hyperrationalistic aftermath of Euripides's Socratic capitulations. In sum, today we have all but forgotten the Dionysian origins of acting-more real than realism-which originally was centered around not fleeting emotions and empathy, but the central cosmological fact of the individuals tragic separation from the All. Highly recommended.e abyss we see the tragedy with its chorus and ideal human characters. The Dionysian element Nietzsche identifies with drunkenness and dissolution, the opposite of the clarity of dream imagery, made public on the Greek stage. The Dionysian in a sense represents the One, or the movement from the individual (seen a la Schopenhauer and Vedic metaphysics as a mayan illusion of universe that \\"I\\"s itself) back to the One; the Apollinian the illusory clarity of the skin-encapsulated individual. (Nietzsche's own individuality, and brain, were compromised by Treponema spirochetes, real Dionysian avatars of the syphilis that eventually killed him.)  One of the most fascinating things about Nietzsche's exquisitely crafted analysis is the way it shows science, no less than Euripides, to be motivated by Socrates' false humility and dreams of total knowledge. \\"Who is this demigod?\\" Nietzsche asks of Socrates-whose reign of reasonableness, passed on to Plato, Aristotle, and the Church scholastics-defines much of the modern world.  Socrates created the secular tradition, raising knowledge over aesthetics and giving mysticism a bad name. Nietzsche points out that Plato burnt his plays after coming into contact with his teacher-and that the compromise, the Platonic dialogues, were in fact the prototype of a new, Socratized art form-the novel. Thus, startlingly Nietzsche suggests the novel itself is a debased form of art-a  Euripideanized, Socratized attempt to make the primal aesthetic experience more representative, reasonable, and realistic. Euripedes (he later recanted, but his influence went on) dispensed with the tragic core of stagecraft, and today we  accept that drama is about individual characters in all their oddity and imperfections-rammed at us unremittingly with the hegemony of plot and wordy deus ex machina explanations in the aesthetically poisonous, hyperrationalistic aftermath of Euripides's Socratic capitulations. In sum, today we have all but forgotten the Dionysian origins of acting-more real than realism-which originally was centered around not fleeting emotions and empathy, but the central cosmological fact of the individuals tragic separation from the All. Highly recommended.	2003-05-29
US	35811293	R3GCD88N8XZ068	060960306X	848987700	Dreams of Being Eaten Alive: The Literary Core of the Kabbalah	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Readable Oblique Translation/Commentary: Kabbalacadabra	Dreams of Being Eaten Alive is a personal rendering of selections of the Zohar, the central mystery text of the Kabbalah, written mostly by Moses de Leon but attributed to an earlier author, Rav Shimon bar Yohai.  The textual trick of claiming authorship for others mirrors, according to author David Rosenberg (a Bible expert, and coauthor with Harold Bloom of the The Book of J), the technique of the writers of the Old Testament in attributing their writings to others or the Other. This is a highly idiosyncratic book and the most idiosyncratic section, Part III, How to Receive the Kabbalah, with its references to Oprah and defense of Derrida's immersion in reading the individual, the author admits was cowritten with his wife, Rhonda  Rosenberg. The multiple authorship cloud of attribution (here real, but in the Kabbalah to imaginary) is reminiscent of the literary trickery of Pushkin's Eugene Onegin or Nabokov's quasi-comical critical glosses. Although hardly exhaustive, there are fascinating teasers in this translation and commentary--such as Rav Abba weeping when he sees a fruit turn into a bird and fly off a tree.  This is alleged to be more than a metaphor, as birds due disperse trees so perhaps (in some sped up view of theGarden of Eden, say) there is an ecological reality to what at first seems just fantasy or poetry. (This book does a strange move towards what it considers to be evolutionary ecology, or \\"frontier ecology,\\" probably because they believe in the possibility there for a convergence of truth and myth.) One gets the feeling in this gloss both of protonovelistic technique in the medieval writers of the Kabbalah and of the attempt to reveal their experience by mystics knowing the superior effectiveness of oblique communiques. The book is also racy, with salacious tales of wet dreams and interdimensional miscegenations, as well as violent, with stories of babies being eaten alive and whatnot by their demonic mothers.  The sense of play and fun of the kabbalah comes across together with its deep mystery. This book was a nice combination of respectful and irreverent, and seemed to be informed in equal parts by the poetic sense of the artist and the careful analysis of the scholar. At one point the authors remark to the effect that since Gershom Scholem (school and golem?) and Freud there has been a virtual absence of Jewish intellectuals reinvigorating the rich spiritual tradition from which both the Old Testament and the Kabbalah originate.abbalah comes across together with its deep mystery. This book was a nice combination of respectful and irreverent, and seemed to be informed in equal parts by the poetic sense of the artist and the careful analysis of the scholar. At one point the authors remark to the effect that since Gershom Scholem (school and golem?) and Freud there has been a virtual absence of Jewish intellectuals reinvigorating the rich spiritual tradition from which both the Old Testament and the Kabbalah originate.	2003-05-22
US	35811293	R21RPQ1MGQ8Y4H	0679445935	328306725	When Memory Speaks: Reflections on Autobiography	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Autobiography, Feminism, and the Self of Modern Fiction	This book is a fascinating, clear, balanced, and informed look at what Conway calls \\"the most popular form of fiction for modern readers\\"--autobiography. Although Conway is drawn to modern themes of race and gender, she also has a keen critical eye, balances the popular with the less-well-known, and the present with the past.  She focuses on meaning making, the way people see their own lives, and the lessons they draw for others from them. For better or worse (and often worse) she argues, the Homeric Greek hero on his action packed odyssey is archetype for meaningful autobiography. Church father Augustine in his Confessions (c. 400) internalized the action, chronicling his attempts to resist temptation and submit to the will of God.Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his Confessions (1871) attempts to succeed on the temporal level, to be a worldly success in touch with self and emotions beyond society's external laws. Benjamin Franklin in his Autobiography (1818) defines such worldly success in economic terms based on diligence and delayed gratification. The analysis of 19th century women's rights leaders such as Harriet Martineau and Elizabeth Cady Stanton are artfully analyzed through their autobiographies, as are colorful female personalities less obviously political such as stepbrother-abused Virginia Wolf (1882-1941) and the hilarious Mabel Dodge Luhan (1879-1962)who was married four times (and had an affair with D.H. Lawrence) and wrote a four-volume memoirs entitled Intimate Memories. More familiar feminists such as Australian Germain Greer, Gloria Steinem (\\"full-time feminist leader, slipping into the role of caregiver for the feminist movement and unable to care for herself\\") are also analyzed with a critical focus of Conway's refreshingly non-monolithic feminism.  Because of her rare combination of empathy and critical clarity, Conway excels when she is examining more marginal characters such as lesbian May Sarton's 1968 Plant Dreaming Deep, the 1974 Flying by lesbian Kate Millet (who appeared on the cover of Time),black lesbian Audre Lorde's 1982 Zami, A New Spelling of My Name, and so on. Conway also analyzes gay male autobiographies such as historian Martin Duberman's 1991 Cures, and A Different Person (1993) by James Merril (son of Charles E. Merril, one of the founders of Merril Lynch).  She examines James/Jan Morris's transexual account in Conundrum, and decides that such stories are intrinsically more essentialist (structurally sexist)than simple gay and lesbian autobiographies. I am not sure I agree with all of Conway here--her definition of postmodernism seems too simple, and it is not clear that the true goal of autobiography writing is to own up to ourselves as significant actors in the drama of our own existence, rather than victimlike or overly modest (\\"feminine\\") being to whom things happen. To know that we would have to know the status of free will, which we don't, and there is the added danger (also an artistic one, although it can have comic effects) of the egotistic memoirist who takes credit for all sorts of things that were not related to his actions or decisions.  So there is a continuum between active/egotistic/sellable autobiography and passive/modest/marketplace-challenged memoirs that needs to be carefully navigated by any aspiring autobiographer.But what is good about Conway is she is nice without pulling any critical punches. She shows how even the most successful feminists can hurt their cause by the way they report their story, and she ends with the striking image of a man (French journalist Jean-Dominique Bauby--The Diving Bell and the Butterfly, 1997)paralyzed in all but one eye from a stroke, telling his story by blinking as a devoted helper goes through the alphabet until arriving at the correct letter. Although nominally about autobiography, and a brilliant work of feminism, this book may perhaps be of most use to creative writers.n Kate Millet (who appeared on the cover of Time),black lesbian Audre Lorde's 1982 Zami, A New Spelling of My Name, and so on. Conway also analyzes gay male autobiographies such as historian Martin Duberman's 1991 Cures, and A Different Person (1993) by James Merril (son of Charles E. Merril, one of the founders of Merril Lynch).  She examines James/Jan Morris's transexual account in Conundrum, and decides that such stories are intrinsically more essentialist (structurally sexist)than simple gay and lesbian autobiographies. I am not sure I agree with all of Conway here--her definition of postmodernism seems too simple, and it is not clear that the true goal of autobiography writing is to own up to ourselves as significant actors in the drama of our own existence, rather than victimlike or overly modest (\\"feminine\\") being to whom things happen. To know that we would have to know the status of free will, which we don't, and there is the added danger (also an artistic one, although it can have comic effects) of the egotistic memoirist who takes credit for all sorts of things that were not related to his actions or decisions.  So there is a continuum between active/egotistic/sellable autobiography and passive/modest/marketplace-challenged memoirs that needs to be carefully navigated by any aspiring autobiographer.But what is good about Conway is she is nice without pulling any critical punches. She shows how even the most successful feminists can hurt their cause by the way they report their story, and she ends with the striking image of a man (French journalist Jean-Dominique Bauby--The Diving Bell and the Butterfly, 1997)paralyzed in all but one eye from a stroke, telling his story by blinking as a devoted helper goes through the alphabet until arriving at the correct letter. Although nominally about autobiography, and a brilliant work of feminism, this book may perhaps be of most use to creative writers.	2003-03-04
US	35811293	R4R7KLHYXYFTV	1557133859	277610284	Six Early Stories (Sun & Moon Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Post-Romantic Fiction	In these overlooked early stories, the great German Novelist Thomas Mann, best know for his novella Death in Venice, and his massive novel, Magic Mountain (set in Switzerland), experiments with the character of the sensitive (sometimes sickly) artist skittering on the outskirts, or being powerfully pulled in, to romantic and philosophical infatuation.  Said to mark the introduction of psychology into romantic fiction, the stories (such as Fallen, 1898, and The Will to Happiness, 1896) were written in the so-called Gay Nineties (the 1890s)--the decade which took with it Oscar Wilde and Friedrich Nietzsche. In these short stories Mann is playful but works with a precociously masterful touch. His themes are romance, deception, and the limitations of previous literary convention. In one story a desirable actress turns out to be a prostitute, in another a homely woman admired for her mind turns down the artist after he changes his about her desirability,and in perhaps the most powerful story, a most desirable spouse is revealed to be the exact opposite--perhaps.  Nietzsche's preoccupation with surfaces, the infinite artistic allure of deception, and the gulf separating the outside world from that of the human mind are deftly handled in these early stories by an acknowledged master of the fictional form.	2003-03-03
US	35811293	RGMWEP49VNBU1	0898797500	133065272	Writing to Sell	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Excellent Craft-of-Novel Primer	First appearing in 1950, and a hilarious 1974 introduction by the redoubtable Arthur C. Clarke, pioneering literary agent Scott Meredith's (I923-1993) Writing to Sell is an excellent tool for the aspiring writer. Meredith has a deep understanding of the marketplace (although some of his observations have become dated), as well as of what makes plots work (his original aspiration was to be a science fiction writer).He generalizes the successful plot as one in which an initial conflict is complicated to a climax, makes useful distinctions (e.g., between \\"incident\\" and \\"story\\") and gives many practical suggestions on novel writing and revising. (There is one chapter devoted to nonfiction.)  Perhaps reflecting Meredith's financial success, there is a tendency to equate literary success entirely with sales reminiscent of Mickey Spillane's comment that what intellectuals don't understand is more people eat peanuts than caviar-or Tom Clancy's comment not to \\"commit art.\\" Meredith's clients have included Norman Mailer, Ellery Queen, Robert Silverberg, and Philip K. Dick; and he was mentor to many agents and editors.  With the qualification that his \\"just-sell-it\\" tonic may quash artistic originality, there is a lot to learn from his distillation of the American writing experience-which is no doubt why this book remains in print with Writer's Digest Books half a century after its initial publication. From the need to start off in a recognizable genre, to the importance of not skimping on the first draft and presenting likable characters with seemingly impossible problems, Meredith's work is a highly readable primer on the basic attributes of a salable novel. In short, although somewhat mercantile and dated,Writing to Sell is an excellent craft of writing work.	2003-02-27
US	35811293	R3B7ZFHBQOD281	0452273404	97769473	Two or Three Things I Know for Sure	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Hurting Truths and Healing Stories	I believe Ernest Hemmingway said \\"All you have to do<br />to be a writer is write one honest sentence.\\" Well by<br />that definition, and although this slim book with its<br />refrains of the title in different contexts reads<br />almost like a performance piece between two covers--it<br />is in fact reconstructed from texts used in<br />performances used to publicize 1993's Bastard Out of<br />North Carolina--Dorothy Allison is certainly a writer.<br />And yet curiously, and at times almost bewitchingly,<br />Allison plays with and cozies up to the notion of<br />story in its ability not just to tell the truth but to<br />conceal it--here, in the simplest possible language,<br />and using her own experiences as a child abuse victim<br />by her stepfather in the American South, she<br />psychoanalyzes the nature of story and story-telling<br />as a means of healing the ego and reinventing the<br />self. The book is integrated with arresting<br />black-and-white photos of the book's principles and<br />protagonists, the hard-working and depressed women and<br />the hard-drinking men acting tougher even than they<br />are and old before their time. She tells stories of a<br />happy-go-lucky ladies' man uncle so depressed after<br />being jilted that he feels that his \\"heart is going to<br />leap out of his chest\\"; of the balletic wife of her<br />young karate instructor, a woman whose confidence she<br />rewrote as prose; and of seducing an army woman, the<br />repressed overweight daughter of a gangster, taking<br />her by surprise in the shower. She even owns up to<br />fantasies of sexual pleasure in the act of violence,<br />refusing to deny the truth even as she realizes its<br />malleability, its inability to withstand the greater<br />caress of good storytelling. This is a book about<br />truth and lies, and the arts of transformation. Beyond<br />lies and self-deception the truth hurts...and<br />\\"fiction\\"--conscious now, in the hands of the<br />lover...of the damaged self--has the power<br />to heal.	2003-02-27
US	35811293	R1DTMTLVP6QI1X	1582971595	768462938	The Complete Handbook of Novel Writing	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Diverse Goldmine	Any aspiring writer should be grateful for this anthology to study. Although the considerable diversity here does not a completely unified voice make, each article (previously published in Writer's Digest) has tips and inspirations for the aspiring novelist. From Richard Russo's exploration of place and character to mystery novelist Sue Grafton's use of a journal to get her right brain going-from Jeanne Cavelos's observation that horror is a genre uniquely dependent upon emotion-and what scares you is the secret source of fear-this book is a diverse gold mine of writing technique nuggets.  Here you will find James Patrick Kelly talking about the need to \\"murder your darlings\\"-the phrase that Stephen King borrows in his On Writing book. Helpful boxes of related books, how to write proposals and Evan Marshall's chapter on novel synopses (which I didn't even know existed!) for agents; personal anecdotes and articulate easy-to-read tips from authors either great or best-selling or both make this a useful, inspiring, and exciting book-perhaps the best overall I have read on the craft of fiction. How does screenwriting relate to novel writing? How do you create a believable character? How do you integrate exposition? How do you create suspense? How do you revise or deal with criticism? What means emotion and motivation? These are the kinds of core questions addressed in this fun technique book.	2003-02-27
US	35811293	RHOW6OLH1A0V3	156608010X	690267455	Characters in Action: Playwriting the Easy Way	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Lively and Useful Introduction	Characters in Action<br />Marsh Cassady<br />This was the first book I read on the art of playwriting and I found it rather inspiring. Cassady stresses tapping into your unconscious for dialogue and plot-connection ideas, he considers all the basics from stage directions to proper script presentation, and gives a wide variety of interesting examples that show that he knows what he's talking about. He also uses the literary device of having made-up characters break into the text to dramatically illustrate his points. I could not find fault with this book as a primer for writing live drama. The book should also be of interest to fiction writers and screenwriters who to hone their art and expand their horizons. A lively and useful introduction.	2003-02-27
US	35811293	RNGBJ66KJ5BZV	0452278899	799254827	The American Dream and Zoo Story	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Mystical Animals in America	Zoo Story<br />There is something unique about the works of Edward Albee, a kind of mood, or wry-but-not-entirely-dry attitude, one recognizes but can't quite put his finger on. This &quot;story&quot; of a suburbanite with two daughters minding his own business on a park bench who is accosted by a poorer but somehow wiser man who has been at the zoo was Edward Albee's first play to be seen by the public.  Dating from 1958, the one-act play, which like much of Albee's work seems to deftly mix absurdist elements with an intimate rendering of the American bourgoisie--and a sort of silent, if perhaps ironical, nod to mystical Christianity--he reminds me of a dramaturgic Saint Francis of Assisi--was first seen in Berlin.  As in Who's Afraid of Virgina Wolf? and The Goat, the object of desire is off stage, at least until the end, at which point &quot;its&quot; &quot;retrieval&quot; reveals a generalized dissatisfaction which the playwright allows to be dispersed as satisfaction after all, in conformity with the peculiarities of human desire and the conventions of literary endings. This two-man play seems to work largely because the older, more well-to-do man, Peter-a kind of icon of smug suburbanite self-satisfaction, who wants to be entertained, as it were, from the outside--is drawn in--across the white picket fence, or here, the green slatted Central Park bench--to the life of the slightly younger Jerry--a sort of stand--in it would seem for the playwrite, and his dramatic task to involve us all in a participatory experience this side--or perhaps a little more--of religion.<br />The American Dream<br />Although I have read/seen only four of Albee's works (Who's Afraid of Virgina Wolf, Zoo Story, and The Goat), this seems to me the work of his that owes most to-or is closest to- the theater of the absurd-particularly to Samuel Beckett.  And yet, as the title suggests, the work is far more American-down home, you might say-and so is the humor.  The main characters are &quot;Mommy,&quot; &quot;Daddy&quot; and &quot;Grandma&quot;-and Grandma is a scream.  Her brilliant, if irascible, wit contains some brilliant, if not exactly unbiased, observations on the treatment of, expectations from, and inner reality of, the elderly.  She comes off as the most intelligent person in the play, and the one we identify with the most-even if her metaphysical capacities for hiding objects, forgetting who her strumpet daughter is, and desiring with spiritual ardor the flesh of the young who may or may not be her own are not necessarily everyone's instantiation of satisfaction's successful pursuit.quot;Mommy,&quot; &quot;Daddy&quot; and &quot;Grandma&quot;-and Grandma is a scream.  Her brilliant, if irascible, wit contains some brilliant, if not exactly unbiased, observations on the treatment of, expectations from, and inner reality of, the elderly.  She comes off as the most intelligent person in the play, and the one we identify with the most-even if her metaphysical capacities for hiding objects, forgetting who her strumpet daughter is, and desiring with spiritual ardor the flesh of the young who may or may not be her own are not necessarily everyone's instantiation of satisfaction's successful pursuit.	2003-02-20
US	35811293	RA1TQS042OKW5	0060930705	450932442	Someone to Watch Over Me: Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Rich Slices of Modern Life	Richard Bausch in these stories--of an older men with younger women, of a woman recovering from a dysfunctional relationship who hooks up with a horrible golfer who persuades himself he is good, of a man with low self-esteem who stumbles out of a bar drunk one morning to save a busload of children, of a man who wins the lottery only to face the final anomie of life as loss--takes somewhat downtrodden and mundane middle-to-lower class characters and reveals them in their secret glory. He has a way of fully seizing an everyday situation and revealing to us its depths, sometimes switching character point of view within the same story.  The stories have the opposite effect of Chinese food according to the culinary cliche: they may seem on the light side while being mentally digested, but in retrospect they confer literary nutrition--staying, like the best fiction, with you long after the book is closed; these then are stories whose characters, if not the most memorable, are so real, so deeply sliced from the pie of modern American life, that their quandries and partial resolutions, their fictional or fictionalized lives, tend to merge with one's own memories.	2003-02-18
US	35811293	R1OKNCVQZMS74X	0871133741	512800291	A New Path to the Waterfall	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Style is the Man	Raymond Carver, whom I had the fortuitous pleasure of having lunch with, along with his girfriend Tess Gallagher, a couple of years before he died, was a true artist. Emily Dickinson puts poets above the sun and God in pantheon of what's most important, and people like Raymond Carver prove her right.  Although this last offering by the 20th century's greatest minimalist writer is neither his greatest nor his most minimal, it strikes the same generous chord of longing, of heart warming simplicity and heart breaking honesty, that Carver strikes elsewhere.  The style is the man, wrote Buffon (in French), and sure enough that is the case here: a style of simple emotional honesty, combined with an artist's experimental will to playfulness, sufffused with a hope whose transcendent beauty is precisely its distillation from the undoctored elements of ordinary reality.  This book, enhanced and completed by Tess Gallagher's wonderfully loving but unsentimental introduction, shows Carver at the end of his life; still excited about art, and the possibility of the poem form, he splices lines from Chekov stories, giving them titles and thereby<br />transforming them into poem epigraphs to his own measured prose. The transformation of the Chekov short story to the Carver poem perhaps underscores the poetic process itself, whittling down reality into its artistic essence--the process so aptly demonstrated by Carver, who never wrote a novel, in his short stories. As Salmon Rushdie says on the cover (I paraphrase), read this book by Carver.  Read everything by Carver. Raymond Carver was a great writer.	2003-02-11
US	35811293	R2M2IXZ1WBFWAV	0374525536	999781684	So Forth: Poems	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Translating the Clouds	A forced exile from Leningrad who went on to live in New York and New England, and teach at Mount Holyoke College, Joseph Brodsky is a serious poet--a brilliant self-translator of his own often brilliant poems--the National Poet Laureate under Clinton--and a man who advocated putting poetry books rather than Bibles in hotes drawers.  Well I'm not sure one can find infinite solace or religious consolation proper in this work (which was, if not the last, then among the last of Brodsky's works--with many of the poems written in the mid-nineties shortly before his death in his fifties), one will find moral guidance at its non-preachy best. Like other poets, Brodsky writes of love and loss and the end of the century (one of the half-rhyming translated poems is entitled \\"fin de siecle\\"), but he does so with a certain nobility, a certain nongrandiose majesty that lifts him, without any display of effort on his part, to the ranks of the very finest poets ever.  Unlike fellow exile Vladimir Nabokov, for example, who seems always to be arguing, thinking about arguing, or making a flourish of having no need to argue, for his posthumous recognition--and whose works, translated by his son, always seem a bit overwritten--Brodsky's poems read fresh and direct in his own translations.  And yet, as with the greats of the Russian literary legacy (Chekov's characters are the subject of one poem), we are reminded in reading Brodsky that story-telling and poetry have reached peaks out of the purview of those who cannot appreciate say Pushkin in the original.  Observation is a kind of translation, and there is the opposite problem, or rather tendency, of Brodsky's view of America (like Nabokov's) having something strangely quaint and distorted about it--as if strip malls could provide Americans with something more than the generic backdrop against which the exile spins his reveries and measures his memories. It is strange to see the archetypal nonexotic of America made strange through the exile's eyes. We must be grateful for Brodsky for taking the time to translate his own works.  In this volume Brodsky laments the passing of time, the aging of lovers, the encroaching of death--he captures long-vanished armies in his poetic net, advises his daughter on where to look for him once he is gone. There is an uncompromising realism in him that is both frightening and refreshing. I thought \\"Clouds\\"--\\"lighter than the body/better than the soul\\"--one of the best poems ever written--or should I say translated.e exile's eyes. We must be grateful for Brodsky for taking the time to translate his own works.  In this volume Brodsky laments the passing of time, the aging of lovers, the encroaching of death--he captures long-vanished armies in his poetic net, advises his daughter on where to look for him once he is gone. There is an uncompromising realism in him that is both frightening and refreshing. I thought \\"Clouds\\"--\\"lighter than the body/better than the soul\\"--one of the best poems ever written--or should I say translated.	2003-02-11
US	35811293	R2Q0S0R8EXCQUH	0871133741	512800291	A New Path to the Waterfall	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Style is the Man	Raymond Carver, whom I had the fortuitous pleasure of having lunch with, along with his girfriend Tess Gallagher, a couple of years before he died, was a true artist. Emily Dickinson puts poets above the sun and God in pantheon of what's most important, and people like Raymond Carver prove her right.  Although this last offering by the 20th century's greatest minimalist writer is neither his greatest nor his most minimal, it strikes the same generous chord of longing, of heart warming simplicity and heart breaking honesty, that Carver strikes elsewhere.  The style is the man, wrote Buffon (in French), and sure enough that is the case here: a style of simple emotional honesty, combined with an artist's experimental will to playfulness, sufffused with a hope whose transcendent beauty is precisely its distillation from the undoctored elements of ordinary reality.  This book, enhanced and completed by Tess Gallagher's wonderfully loving but unsentimental introduction, shows Carver at the end of his life; still excited about art, and the possibility of the poem form, he splices lines from Chekov stories, giving them titles and thereby<BR>transforming them into poem epigraphs to his own measured prose. The transformation of the Chekov short story to the Carver poem perhaps underscores the poetic process itself, whittling down reality into its artistic essence--the process so aptly demonstrated by Carver, who never wrote a novel, in his short stories. As Salmon Rushdie says on the cover (I paraphrase), read this book by Carver.  Read everything by Carver. Raymond Carver was a great writer.	2003-02-11
US	35811293	R1KAT209PHA2UE	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Idealism Gone Awry	Darkness at Noon A. Koestler<br />Spare and uncompromising as its solitarily confined hero, this tale of a once gung-ho, now thoroughly disillusioned revolutionary, Rubashov is strangely haunting. Koestler, known also for his belief in the human right to suicide, his own suicide with his wife, and his forays into the history and theory of biology, delves into the mental depths of his man on death row who has in the end chosen compassion and humanity over the humorlessness and cleverness of the more-than-human revolutionary machine. Rubashov is offered a reprieve if he will only disavow his \\"oppositional tendencies\\" and the actions, some of them framed, he has supposedly committed. As his stoicism and irony confront the ideological racionation of the Soviet state, he must confront the hubris of reason hypertrophying in the belly of the state beast; he must deal with the higher, or lower, irony of revolutionary fervor-based on the same sort of reason he applies in his own analyses-gone fatally wrong. Although the action is confined largely to the prison cell of Koestler's composite character (based on a number of men Koestler knew), flashbacks and hope allow us fleeting escape from the oncoming freight train of Death. The last line is brilliant and the whole book contains a frightening ring of truth.	2003-01-08
US	35811293	R9SZ7OVP75P9R	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Colonial Gloom, Misty Plot	Apparently touted by the early (and literate!) American pundit H.L. Mencken, this brief novel recounted at sea is strongest in my opinion in its dreamy use of language. The plot, such as it is, concerns a voyage into the depths of partly colonized lands, namely Africa with its slaves and beasts and some natives who, unaccustomed to technology, are apt to regard civilization, such as it is, as aliens or gods. Although the story line is hazy (as it is in dreams), the renowned author succeeds in creating an exotic mood of gloom (one of his favorite words)-a mood exacerbated by the technical device of recounting at sea tales taking place in the midst of a continent.  The character played by Marlon Brando in the film Apocalypse Now is supposedly based in part on the \\"central\\" character of this novel, Kurtz, who, like the character in the Coppola film, appears only fleetingly, the better to show his obscurantist power.	2003-01-05
US	35811293	RDBRN8IXBOBZU	0876859260	10211078	Pulp	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Stalking Celine, Space Aliens, and Lady Death	Well, for a book dedicated to \\"bad writing,\\" Pulp succeeds in clearing its own lowered bar. Because Bukowski specializes in a kind of brutal honesty, whereas the elements of this lite juggling act are formulaic, this is not a book which will, like some of his others, rivet your emotional organs to the latest bit of metal being extruded from society's assembly line. On the other hand, Bukowski is more formally playful here than in his other novels and, for that reason alone, Pulp is worth reading. What Bukowski fan could resist the thought of a Bukowski book with oversexed aliens, featuring a hardboiled detective hired by Lady Death to track down the dead French author Celine? Not too many. But perhaps because the old man had finally found a species of domestic happiness with his wife and cats, some money and some belated recognition as a writer, there is less raw emotional fire in this than his other novels. On the one hand, the book has a lower truth quotient than some of his short poems. On the other hand, I do think it succeeds as a parody of the hard-boiled detective novel and, by extension, of the sociosexual masquerade of the tough American male. There are some very funny bits here, as in the short chapter where the slack protagonist \\"dick,\\" bereft of clues, does nothing and I mean nothing (although he does it in a tough way) in his office.  Let's see if Slavoj Zizek can take time out from his Lacanian  psychoanalysis of Hitchcock and Bogart films to crack this!	2002-12-19
US	35811293	RBO7P8EHB0GOV	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Minimalist Masterpiece	This book (my first exposure) to Murakami starts off slow and mundane to the point  of boredom, but before long you realize you are in the hands of a master. Like a marathon versus a sprint, the mundane realism allows Murakami to unveil with perfect pitch and timing the story of an only child and his long-lost childhood girlfriend (also an only child) who now, still beautiful in her late thirties, lives under mysterious circumstances and comes to see him in his upscale bar. Murakami reportedly translated into Japanese Raymond Carver, who never wrote a novel. It shows. Less is more here, and each revelation at the level of plot conceals something deeper about life. I loved the subtlety of the ending that brings to a naturalistic crescendo the novel-long tropes of walking, rainfall, and the curious eponymous &quot;place&quot; of the title. Inspiring-a minimalist masterpiece that inspired me with a desire to write, and to read more Murakami.	2002-12-15
US	35811293	R1J6HL4FN4S8NC	0898799465	974551584	Plot (Elements of Fiction Writing)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Compelling Craft-of-Writing Book	Someone left this book in Starbucks and I devoured it with interest before giving it back to their lost and found; it didn't take long--moved right along. There is a lot of hard-won adviced distilled and served up in a straightforward way. (Parenthetically, I found Dibell had written a science fiction tale based on the myth of Orpheus--I just had a variation of this idea a couple of days ago: Greek myths seem a natural place to mine for strong plots!) I appreciated her comments on letting the plot come to life as opposed to the hackneyed advice of obeying a strict outline.  Unlike an earlier reviewer, I found the concept of melodrama as used here comprehensible and quite helpful. I also like her analyses of beginnings and endings, and what she calls mosaic and collage novels. Dibell's use of examples from contemporary and historical fiction (e.g., Melville to Star Wars) convinced me she knew whereof she spoke. A good, easy-to-read book on the writing craft, although she apparently failed to recognize that the comment about happy families being boring is not just an old saw but derives from the first line of Tolstoy's Anna Karenina! (It also seems strange that someone would need a nom de plum for a rather tame book on craft!) A great set of guidelines and ideas from someone who knows what they are talking about.	2002-12-10
US	35811293	ROBJR9KIZCKJY	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Advice for Writers: "Kill Your Darlings"	Although I still have not read any of Stephen King's wildly popular horror fiction, I was prepared to like this book. I was prepared by a preface King wrote to a story anthology by science fiction writer Harlan Ellison. In the essay King compares one writer reading another's work to refrigerated milk in an open carton at risk of picking up other flavors.  On Writing is an excellent, readable, and revealing primer of the life of a modern writer, a kind of Horatio Alger story devoid of both pomposity and false modesty.  Although the book is devoted as much or more to King's life's than it is to writing, the two subjects are mutually illuminating. The actual advice he gives about writing is also, when he gets to it, most instructive. It can be summarized by the phrase: Omit Needless Words. King emphasizes editing, demonstrates the economy of eliminating adverbs, and looks objectively at his own and others' work. The result is refreshing honesty and practical advice. My favorite line is about the virtual necessity of destroying a book's \\"best parts\\"-fetishized passages beloved by the author-for the sake of the novel as a whole. Because these favorite parts often act like blood clots or traffic blocking narrative flow, they must be gotten rid of. Although not his own, the phrase is fittingly macabre for a work scribed by King: \\"Kill your darlings.\\"	2002-12-08
US	35811293	R27STLZXGK5XZ1	0684846349	16859864	Molecules Of Emotion: The Science Behind Mind-Body Medicine	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Neuropeptides and the Evolving Bodymind	A curious mix of the personal and academic travails of an acclaimed neuroscientist-the woman who codiscovered the endorphin receptor-and her semi-ostracization into a new age world where heterodox approaches to healing are overly welcomed, rather than overly criticized, Candace Perts Molecules of Emotion: The Science Behind Mind-Body Medicine is an important, if provisional, scientific document chronicling the beginnings of what she calls \\"the new paradigm.\\" The New Paradigm is Pert's term for a verifiable, hard science field beyond political terms such as \\"alternative,\\" \\"complementary,\\" or even \\"integrative\\" medicine-a field devoted to human health and wellness that recognizes the deep, peptidally mediated connections between the gastrointestinal, cranial-neural, immunological, and endocrine systems. As Pert emphasizes, the mind is not the brain although the forebrain (the neocortex) is, along with the gut and the heart, one of its crucial nodes.  The would-be \\"magic bullet\\" approach of institutionalized and governmentally funded western medicine ignores the complexity and mutliple feedback systems of the human organism as a peptidally connected unified field. Endorphins, released by the pituitary gland beneath the brain's limbic system, have effects throughout the body and are found not only in other mammals but in microbes such as Tetrahymena. (The extent to which peptide-producing microbes affect human moods remains an unexplored area.) They cause (and/or are the result of) pleasure, measurably increasing in orgasm and exercise; they are also involved in learning (and probably laughter). But they are only one of hundreds of neurally active peptides dovetailing together to establish mood and filter perception within the human organism. There are seratonin receptors in the gut, and antidepressants active in the brain also have been shown to increase gastrointestinal disorders. Placebo anaesthetics have measurably real chemical effects on pain threshold: psychosomatic may be a matter of suggestion, but it is hardly \\"all in the mind.\\"  Pert, fighting an uphill battle against an entrenched institutionalized morass, has (not without strong emotional involvement on her part) proved the dichotomous narrowness of the mind-versus-body approach endemic to modern, male-dominated western medicine. Ironically, males may be more prone to such over-dichotomization, including that of the mental and the physical, due to their smaller corpus callossums, the fibrous neural mass connecting the brains two hemispheres. We are more like segmented worms than ensouled machines or minds inside the vats of bodies. We have gut feelings and even during adulthood cells in the bone marrow migrate through the body along peptide gradients to form neurons, literally making up one's mind. I learned this in a recent interview with Pert in her office at Georgetown Medical Center. In it-interrupted for phone calls preparing for further work on the peptide-based AIDs drugs Pert has been championing for fifteen years, but is only recently receiving attention-she also told me that she had met many of the top brass in the alternative healing movement. (Photos of her with the pope, and of her with the Dalai Lama adorn her office wall.)  As the scientific evidence mounts for the molecular basis of moods in receptor sites finely modulated by roving peptides, the scientific importance of this popular document increases. Virtually every street drug known works by acting on a correlated endogenous receptor. Pert's book, although certainly flawed as literature, stands as a founding document of medicine's \\"new paradigm\\"-the fascinating interconnections of a single, peptidergically mediated body-mind.tic may be a matter of suggestion, but it is hardly \\"all in the mind.\\"  Pert, fighting an uphill battle against an entrenched institutionalized morass, has (not without strong emotional involvement on her part) proved the dichotomous narrowness of the mind-versus-body approach endemic to modern, male-dominated western medicine. Ironically, males may be more prone to such over-dichotomization, including that of the mental and the physical, due to their smaller corpus callossums, the fibrous neural mass connecting the brains two hemispheres. We are more like segmented worms than ensouled machines or minds inside the vats of bodies. We have gut feelings and even during adulthood cells in the bone marrow migrate through the body along peptide gradients to form neurons, literally making up one's mind. I learned this in a recent interview with Pert in her office at Georgetown Medical Center. In it-interrupted for phone calls preparing for further work on the peptide-based AIDs drugs Pert has been championing for fifteen years, but is only recently receiving attention-she also told me that she had met many of the top brass in the alternative healing movement. (Photos of her with the pope, and of her with the Dalai Lama adorn her office wall.)  As the scientific evidence mounts for the molecular basis of moods in receptor sites finely modulated by roving peptides, the scientific importance of this popular document increases. Virtually every street drug known works by acting on a correlated endogenous receptor. Pert's book, although certainly flawed as literature, stands as a founding document of medicine's \\"new paradigm\\"-the fascinating interconnections of a single, peptidergically mediated body-mind.	2002-12-08
US	35811293	R1YXIIDTSAARB8	1886449414	732588282	Death Sentence	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Staring Death in the Eye	A short, harrowing work interested neither in description, character development, nor cleverness but rather in staring death in the eye. If you like Barbara Kingsolver, Stephen King, or even Raymond Carver you doubtless may detest this abstract gift of a conflicted consciousness of a taciturn man in love with a sickly, dying young woman during troubled times. Perhaps the supreme study of the impossibility of fidelity, let alone true love, in a world where death hangs in the air as the possibility of total absence or, more frighteningly, as the cipher of a total presence condemned to repeat its secret to deaf ears.	2002-11-30
US	35811293	R2B3JRZAG5MSLD	0140274995	461773594	The Actual : A Novella	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Better Late Than Never	Bellow's protagonist is a staid, somewhat mysterious Asian-looking character who may be based in part on Allan Bloom's travelling companion, described in Bellow's Ravelstein.  Morally distanced from the characters with whom he becomes reluctantly involved, the protagonist, during a graveyard scene, risks new love with his highschool sweetheart who has eluded him in a life of successful business. The better-late-than-never involvement of the protagonist by book's may mirror Bellows' own dialectic between the writerly distance needed for objective observation and the deeper involvement in life which renders detached observation both more suspect and more difficult.	2002-11-26
US	35811293	R373GJOYR3U2XS	0671657151	12401298	The Closing of the American Mind	Books	4	29	33	N	N	Aspiring to Platonic Perfection	I was surprised at how compelling the arguments of this book were-in part because I had dismissed it, when it first came out, as Reaganite conservative propaganda. As Saul Bellow chronicles in Ravelstien, a fictional account of Bloom in his dying days, Bloom's students, who often went on to positions in high places such as government, loved him.  Well, this book is conservative in a way but don't confuse it with Pat Buchanan's ravings or shouting yuppies in bars: Bloom's book is a masterful interpretation of Plato's emphasis on three ideals key to ancient Greece and the greatness of America: the good, the beautiful, and the true.  As illustrated by the woman who stands up in the subterranean feminist meeting in Fellini's City of Women that all women are beautiful, all women are young, all women are twenty years old-it is simply wishful thinking-and ultimately deeply character-debilitating self-deception, if not a Naziesque form of thought control-to persuade oneself (or try to convince others) that everyone and everything is equally beautiful, good, or true.  The greatness of the United States, Bloom points out eloquently and repeatedly, is that we have inherited and (at least in our earlier days) instantiated these Greek ideal of the true, the beautiful, and the good.  Part of what has confused us as a nation is our other great inheritance of ideals, from France of the French revolution. Here the ideals were liberty, fraternity, and equality.  Kurt Vonnegut has a wonderful short story where, to make all citizens equal, people who are significantly smarter are brought into line with special helmets than bang on their head continuously so they can't think straight-a fictional example, exaggerated for clarity, of all that is wrong with the enforcement of diversity for diversity's sake, political correctness, and what another Bloom (Harold) calls \\"the politics of resentment.\\" Allan Bloom shows that what is superior about the United States as a nation devolves upon its integration of the Greek ideals-not to accept all cultures as equal, but to scour them, taking what is best from all.  He gives the example of the pre-colonial British practise in India of burning wives of the deceased husband (similar practises have existed in Japan-floating widows down the river-and elsewhere). Not all cultural practises are equally good.  For example, women are treated better in countries like Turkey and the United States than in places like Saudi Arabia and Japan.  That doesn't mean, however, that Alice Walker is Shakespeare.  Although this book does not negate deconstruction or cultural relativism (to be used for purposes of comparison, not mere levelling) it shows the strength of a once-great country that has lost sight of the ideals of excellence articulated in the Platonic search for the true, the beautiful, and the good. There are, of course, other interpretations of Platonism. But this book is a hard-hitting tour-de-force, a great example of applied Platonism, showin-good-heartedly and amusingly-not only what is wrong with America but what needs to be done to fix it. An eloquent defense of the dying core of western civilization.integration of the Greek ideals-not to accept all cultures as equal, but to scour them, taking what is best from all.  He gives the example of the pre-colonial British practise in India of burning wives of the deceased husband (similar practises have existed in Japan-floating widows down the river-and elsewhere). Not all cultural practises are equally good.  For example, women are treated better in countries like Turkey and the United States than in places like Saudi Arabia and Japan.  That doesn't mean, however, that Alice Walker is Shakespeare.  Although this book does not negate deconstruction or cultural relativism (to be used for purposes of comparison, not mere levelling) it shows the strength of a once-great country that has lost sight of the ideals of excellence articulated in the Platonic search for the true, the beautiful, and the good. There are, of course, other interpretations of Platonism. But this book is a hard-hitting tour-de-force, a great example of applied Platonism, showin-good-heartedly and amusingly-not only what is wrong with America but what needs to be done to fix it. An eloquent defense of the dying core of western civilization.	2002-11-26
US	35811293	R136SVXOO60SXR	0679749047	582714606	The Counterlife	Books	4	2	12	N	N	Slice of Life with a Twist	This meticulously observed slice of life showing the writer's motivations is Roth's Bildungsroman of a fresh new writer (a young Roth, no doubt) who has recently won an award  studying for a few days in the country at the feet of his hoary idol (Saul Bellow?). But it is apparently Roth whose nature is incorrigibly promiscuous. The older writer has not only a devoted but aging wife but a young female houseguest chronicling his life along with the protagonist. Literary conversations alternate with veiled references to the erotic frustrations of matrimonial imprisonment combined with the lure of the fetching houseguest. The protagonist is told by the older writer (\\"It's like being married to Tolstoy,\\" he says following his dejected wife out into the snow after an argument) that one does not simply leave a woman after thirty years because one wishes to see a new face while drinking his orange juice in the morning.  Roth's literary erotic imagination goes to work in the book's middle after hearing snippets of a conversation that leads the reader to think, and him (or his protagonist Zuckerman) to imagine, that the fetching woman is the most famous Jewish writer of all time.  And, no, he is not referring to God.  A clever literary coming-of-age novel with a highly imaginative twist (I won't reveal it here) as well as the usual Rothian semitic and sexual obsessions-a slice of life with a twist.	2002-11-26
US	35811293	RS5XMHTKL0KDI	0141001763	855770597	Ravelstein (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Allan Blooms Late Success	Based on intellectual and historian of ideas Allan Bloom whose Closing of the American Mind stands as the meat to this ultimately gossipy, but not unrevealing, portrait of the man (closet gay, incorrigibly sloppy, resolutely positive, a big cigarette-smoking pizza-eating exquisite furniture-buying Saint Bernard of a man who plays Platonic soulmate matchmaker for his students, and gives his Chinese helpmate a car when he finally makes it big). Bellow apparently urged Bloom to write a book, the Closing of the American Mind (which despite its reputation as a narrow conservative tract is actually a brilliant example of applied Platonism) which became a huge best seller, and for which the novelist wrote the introduction. Apparently the favor was returned in Bloom's wish for Bellow (if anyone) to chronicle his life. Bellow's portrait is as much an homage as a novel; he is in awe of Bloom's intellect but appears to approach it only obliquely through the admittedly interesting story of the days surrounding the book's success up to and including Bloom's death. The personal touches and interaction between the two men, who have their own Platonic relationship, is closely observed, as one would expect from Bellow. Perhaps best read as an introduction to The Closing of the American Mind, showing in no uncertain terms the humanity of this latter book, whose arguments, often and easily dismissed as mere conservative drek, but in fact a careful indictment of the intellectual poverty and logically opposed ideals (e.g., equality and diversity) at the core of modern academia (particularly the humanities) are more pertinent now than ever.	2002-11-26
US	35811293	R3I9HQTOWKVMQ2	0679759336	150404094	The Fermata	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Sex, Word, and Idea Play	This erotic or \\"rot\\" (as the intellectual hero who can stop time by pushing up his glasses likes to call it) work by Nicholson Baker (author of the earlier Vox, about phone sex) is a wonderful literary experiment--a blend of wordplay, and slightly self-conscious and deliciously quasi-guilty fantasies come true (at least in the literary frame) due to the protagonist's ability to dip into what he calls the Fold, or the Drop--the time-stopped world where women can not only be undressed, playing with their bodies, but also subliminally seduced--by stopping time and arranging things along the periphery of their vision--or along their Mons veneris. In an acrobatic bit of literary legerdemain Baker straddles, if that's the right word, the vapid world of what used to be called (before the advent of videotape) \\"one-handed books,\\" that is of paperback smut, and the effete, elite world of imaginative literature. the result is an original blend that tweaks the neurons as well as the spermato- and oo-systems. Although Fermata unflinchingly uses proper and slang terms for genitalia, there are some exciting and spoofy coinages such as \\"richard\\" for the male organ, and \\"vadge\\" and \\"Jamaica\\" for women's respective concave and convex accoutrements. ANd despite the book's lush invention and wicked detail, not to mention potent irony and delectation in minor violations, there is a continuous concern with--respect is the word--for women's wishes. In some passgaes Baker seems to sport a more thorough knowledge of female anatomy than some women may have of themselves. And Baker himself, no less than his writer-protagonist (there is the \\"rot\\" written by Arno Strine within the erotica written by Nicholson Baker), is fond of describing encounters of women with their own bodies, suitably supplemented by a wide range of amusingly named dilda, dildi (both plurals are used), and associated machines. The creativity-sexuality connection extends beyond the stopped time of this schoolboy masturbatory conceit made literary to a recently separated woman pleasuring herself while wildly mowing her already well-mowed lawn, to the protagonist's girlfriend's concocting clever contraptions of avocados and electric toothbrushes, and to a Cape Cod beach reader digging her hand in the sand to discover one of Strine's own erotic stories. So there is much fun going on here and, despite the occasional unflinching embrace of straight gutter talk, make no mistake, some extraordinary writing. There is also the literary approach to science fiction, with some fine passages on time (Strine is a temp), as well as the metafictional correspondence of stopped time and private one-way seduction to the time of reading.  The inescapable conclusion is that the women lightly violated in the book are modeled on the \\"real\\" female reading audience Baker would like to \\"reach.\\" But his morality and delicate sensibility--not to mention the reality of his distance--force him to stop short of the literary equivalent of full penetration. So we have ultimately a very nice metaphysic, a metafictional metaphysic, of the impossibility of fully satisfying the urge to merge. The situation is reminiscent of Slavoj Ziaek's interpretation of cybersex as fulfilling French psychoanalyst Jacque Lacan's dictum that \\"there is no sexual relationship [liaison.]\\"  The only criticism I could se one making (apart from the lack of a story per se) is that the emotional palette of the characters remains, for all its subtle intelligence, rather blandly collegiate. All-in-all a most amusing fiction and a highly accomplished literary experiment.y conceit made literary to a recently separated woman pleasuring herself while wildly mowing her already well-mowed lawn, to the protagonist's girlfriend's concocting clever contraptions of avocados and electric toothbrushes, and to a Cape Cod beach reader digging her hand in the sand to discover one of Strine's own erotic stories. So there is much fun going on here and, despite the occasional unflinching embrace of straight gutter talk, make no mistake, some extraordinary writing. There is also the literary approach to science fiction, with some fine passages on time (Strine is a temp), as well as the metafictional correspondence of stopped time and private one-way seduction to the time of reading.  The inescapable conclusion is that the women lightly violated in the book are modeled on the \\"real\\" female reading audience Baker would like to \\"reach.\\" But his morality and delicate sensibility--not to mention the reality of his distance--force him to stop short of the literary equivalent of full penetration. So we have ultimately a very nice metaphysic, a metafictional metaphysic, of the impossibility of fully satisfying the urge to merge. The situation is reminiscent of Slavoj Ziaek's interpretation of cybersex as fulfilling French psychoanalyst Jacque Lacan's dictum that \\"there is no sexual relationship [liaison.]\\"  The only criticism I could se one making (apart from the lack of a story per se) is that the emotional palette of the characters remains, for all its subtle intelligence, rather blandly collegiate. All-in-all a most amusing fiction and a highly accomplished literary experiment.	2002-11-25
US	35811293	RUE97QR3FNPQL	0876857632	358868458	Hollywood	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Some True Grit Behind the Vapid Glitz	Although far from Bukowski's best, this is a revealing send-up of what happens when brutal honesty (Buk) interacts with the California entertainment industry. A roman a clef about the making of the independent film Barfly based on Bukowski's life and some of his earlier stories,the book shows Bukowski finally gaining some recognition and acceptance near the end of his career. The movie stars Faye Dunnaway and Hollywood badboy Mickey Rourke who does a good job slurring and walking about with hemorrhoids. Yet it appears from the text that Bukowski would have preferred Sean Penn, who was originally cast in the part, to play him in the film--Penn had more heart. As always with Bukowski, there are real emotions, honest appraisals, and bone-cutting prose--not compromise, pandering, mediocrity, and unfortunately often successful attempts by MSG-dazed writers to pluck the heart strings and collect the cash.In all his books, Bukowski's presence is perhaps the most palpable of any author behind his fictional protagonist. This is, one might argue (and Phillipe Lacoue-Labarthe did, in the Paradox of the Actor), the diametric opposite of actors, whose abilities lie in taking on the personae of others, and consequently losing their own identity in the process. The story is that when Bukowski, although much older, first encountered Arnold Schwazenegger in Hollywood, he had to be restrained from attempting to fight him just for being such an obvious phony. Far from his most testosterone-crazed, drunken bull self here,he does not seduce but does manage as if for old time's sake to pull onto his lap the pretty co-star during a wine-drenched film party. Even and especially when confronted with (and making some money off of) L.A.s billion-dollar dream machine, Bukowski (as alter ego Henry Chinaski) preserves his uncompromising heart and unwavering eye in the face of the ugly truth. A welcome tonic to Hollywood's treacle.	2002-11-25
US	35811293	R2L4PETZKU0ROM	0060533226	57559703	Biomimicry: Innovation Inspired by Nature	Books	4	18	24	N	N	Nature Chrome in Tool and Law	In Biomimicry: Innovation Inspired by Nature, the sophisticated *almost* pro-growth angle of Benyus shows the great potential profitability of copying some of nature's time-tested, nonpolluting, room-temperature manufacturing and computing technologies.  The colors of Benyus, a splendid Stevensville, Montana writer with an eclectic grasp of quick-moving science, contain far more shades of green than chrome.  Rhetorically at least, the ultimate attraction of technologies such as three-plus-billion-year-old photosynthesis that scientists are now trying to \\"biomimic\\" is that the techniques nature has evolved are more sophisticated and efficient, less disruptive and destructive than the Promethean pyrotechnics that have made humanity the new kid on the evolutionary block.  Like someone who has made a fortune trading fast-growing speculative stocks but must now provide for her retirement by switching to safer, lower yielding bonds, ecologic suggests that the fossil fuel economies that have gotten us thus far will soon be bankrupt and that, if we don't switch to safer modes of sustenance, we will take a major hit, perhaps even extinction. Benyus is dead on: There *is*  an artful science embedded in living nature that makes the realm of regular celestial motions, once believed to be perfect and divine, look robotically stupid by comparison.  But science, whose great early advances came in uncovering the relatively predictable activities of inanimate objects, has lately found success in examining more complex and chaotic structures the shiniest example of which, of course, is life.  Social critic Walter Benjamin pointed out that sometimes the extreme case rather than the average is exemplary.  Likewise, theoretical biologist Robert Rosen suggests that biology may be the more generally instructive science of which physics is a local application  And inventive Benyus shows once and for all the utter technological superiority of would-be \\"lower\\" life forms--the underwater superglue made by mussels, spider dragline silk which ounce-for-ounce is five times stronger than steel and five-times more shatterproof than bulletproof Kevlar, medicinal herb-collecting bears and chimps.  Imagine an undiscovered planet in our solar system consisting of intensely advanced life forms that had perfected waste management, parallel shape-based molecular computing, and nanotechnological materials processing billions of years ago.  Such a planet exists.  It is our own.  Benyus had the genius to recognize nature's own genius and make scientists' attempts to copy it the theme of a popular book.  Brava.  Amusingly, however, when she talks about \\"the living, breathing examples of sustainability\\" held up by biomimics as natural models we humans should now emulate, she uses a technological metaphor: at this crucial juncture in our evolution as a species, natural technology is \\"lighting the runway home.\\"  This can be read as an unconscious nod to the petroleum-based collossus involved at many levels in the printing and distribution of the book, and the standing irony that any truly powerful program to subvert the present \\"unsustainable\\" ecological impact of humans is likely to employ the very technology (such as petroleum-fed global transportation) it criticizes.<br />Which begs a brutal question.  How will we get back to nature?  Benyus evokes an ecological \\"canon\\" she says can be used as a template for our technology.  A natural system should run on sunlight (but do cats?), it should use only the energy it needs (but even our cells store energy), it should fit form to function (do penguins?), it should recycle everything (but no single organism does), it should bank on diversity (but after fire, nuclear explosion and other crises certain organisms grow wildly, priming the area for followers), it should curb excess from within (ok, but excess creates the luxury which leads to new innovation), and it should be beautiful (why not?).  This is a noble list.  What needs to be clarified, however, is the larger evolutionary perspective.  The ecological \\"canon\\" of emulatable processes displayed by nonhuman nature cannot be conflated with nature per se.  We are about to embark on an oft-travelled ecological adjustment made by many organisms which, finding a formerly unused resource, grow wildly and then are forced to deal with the literal spoils of their victory.  The energy from the sun which runs through all life is ultimately a Pandoran excess that cannot be closed up and kept tidy.  The global environment, like Rome in its senescence, will always be open to organisms evolving new ways to plunder it.  Like other pioneer species except on a larger, global scale, we must now temper our populousness and foment the diversity of biological maturity (leading to sensescence) not because of any intrinsic evil but because of the dangers, mostly to ourselves, caused by our own fabulously innovative growth.  Billions of years ago, when cyanobacteria tapped into water as a source of hydrogen, the free oxygen they produced as waste was no evolutionary breath of fresh air.  Rather, the reactive gas burnt the tissues of all organisms that had not evolved to tolerate or use it, especially the creators who found themselves in the gas's midst.  Our puritanical hyperbole needs a Swift to kick it.  \\"Power,\\" as Nietzsche, who disparaged the use of mechanical over natural metaphors, observed over a century ago, \\"makes stupid.\\"  Our ability to tap into Earth's resources to power our own growth has brought us to something even more annoying than the brink of population or standard-of-living collapse: our own stupidity.  Books like Benyus's-which should be required reading at corporations, I would imagine-reminds us that in the long run moderation pays.s to be clarified, however, is the larger evolutionary perspective.  The ecological \\"canon\\" of emulatable processes displayed by nonhuman nature cannot be conflated with nature per se.  We are about to embark on an oft-travelled ecological adjustment made by many organisms which, finding a formerly unused resource, grow wildly and then are forced to deal with the literal spoils of their victory.  The energy from the sun which runs through all life is ultimately a Pandoran excess that cannot be closed up and kept tidy.  The global environment, like Rome in its senescence, will always be open to organisms evolving new ways to plunder it.  Like other pioneer species except on a larger, global scale, we must now temper our populousness and foment the diversity of biological maturity (leading to sensescence) not because of any intrinsic evil but because of the dangers, mostly to ourselves, caused by our own fabulously innovative growth.  Billions of years ago, when cyanobacteria tapped into water as a source of hydrogen, the free oxygen they produced as waste was no evolutionary breath of fresh air.  Rather, the reactive gas burnt the tissues of all organisms that had not evolved to tolerate or use it, especially the creators who found themselves in the gas's midst.  Our puritanical hyperbole needs a Swift to kick it.  \\"Power,\\" as Nietzsche, who disparaged the use of mechanical over natural metaphors, observed over a century ago, \\"makes stupid.\\"  Our ability to tap into Earth's resources to power our own growth has brought us to something even more annoying than the brink of population or standard-of-living collapse: our own stupidity.  Books like Benyus's-which should be required reading at corporations, I would imagine-reminds us that in the long run moderation pays.	2002-11-13
US	35811293	R3M0MBE9U5M2SL	0674006135	160288803	The Structure of Evolutionary Theory	Books	4	30	38	N	N	The Hefty and the Deep	The late, great Stephen Jay Gould's massive tome The Structure of Evolutionary Theory is an impressive chronicle of the history  of much recent and not-so-recent evolutionary thought. The past is solid, it has been said, the future is liquid: Gould's magnum opus reflects this dialectic between science's Newtonian desire for perfect prediction and the quirks of history which, though understandable and connected in retrospect, could hardly be predicted beforehand.  Gould's anti-adaptationism extends to what he calls the nonfractality&quot; of nature--that processes among genes do not translate smoothly to processes among organisms, any more than selective processes among organisms can automatically be equated with similar selective processes among species-individuals--which Gould considers true (if hard to visualize for us relative Lilliputians) units of selection, with much more integrity and individuality than, say, ecosystems<br />or populations.  And yet this nonfractality applies even more forcefully to Gould's incompletely examined zoocentrism.  In retrospect, cell evolution based on gene transfer and symbiosis, not animal speciation (uniformitarian or punctuated) may prove to be the paradigmatic evolutionary process;  microbial metabolic evolution, for example, leading to the origins of speciation, dominated Earth history for over two billion years prior to the evolution of the animals which has long been the prime, if ultimately parochial, focus of Gould and other leading evolutionists.<br />Despite Gould's sometimes Byzantine meanderings (Matt Ridley in the NY Times accused him of logorrhea), which resemble the sort of scholastic infighting religious sects engaged in during the middle ages, his main foci are fairly clear: life is not just genetic or organismic but heirarchical with species-individuals and clades as bona fide individuals; the neodarwinian pan-adaptationists  tend to neglect not only physical laws (such as those of D'Arcy Thompson's allometry, and perhaps of complexity theorists such as Brian Goodwin and Stuart Kauffman) working in organisms in the here-and-now, but also the Darwinian distinction (and Nietzschean dictum) not to confuse  present function with geneological origin; and that life does not proceed in the smooth Uniformitarian manner that Darwin originally envisaged but rather in fits and starts, as proposed in the Gould-Eldredge punctuated equilibrium theory.  In some respects the book resembles a swan song for natural history in an age of molecular biology.  Gould's emphasis on contingency and history has a double purpose:  1) to keep open a space for natural history and good old-fashioned paleontology in an academic climate of deterministic computerized specialization, and 2) to emphasize the irreducibly historical quirks of evolution which make the particular story of our biosphere so special.  There are some problems with this defense of contingency, and in part they are related to Gould's cachet as an international spokesman for Darwinian evolution.  One is the short shrift Gould gives the lawfully deterministic physical sciences, even though he is clearly enthralled with genetic examples of exaptation and the effects selection in one of his levels can have fortuitously on another.  Gould for example seems to have no notion of the possibility of historical but physical, law-based increases in biospheric biomass, increase in respiration efficiencies, and increase in the number of chemical elements and their rates of circulation-corrolaries of the second law of thermodynamics' tendency to increase entropy via complex systems (of which life is the most striking, but certainly not the only, example). Moreover, these unmentioned examples of evolutionary progressivism are probably best not explained by the non natural selection forms of complexity Gould provisionally blesses with his divine pen: the experimental mathematics of chaos algorithms (or at least those which would not dispense with Darwin<br />altogether). Perhaps the biggest oversights of Gould's huge book are his paucity of discussion of symbiosis or lateral genetic transfer-for Gould evolution is only about branching clades, not anastomosis-and his lack of ecology.  Because they can be imagined reproducing, Gould argues eloquently for the reification of the taxonomic abstraction species (leading him to adopt the term &quot;species-individual&quot;), yet dismisses the ecosystem as a relative non-entity. (The most striking, if tentative example for me, was Gould's mention of Jeff Podos's work in which evolution at the level of the individual bird beaks used in feeding could lead-because change of beak shape leads also to different characteristic birdsongs used in mate recognition and avian courtship-to faster-evolving clades of bird species.) Yet ecosystems display successional processes of striking uniformity from a rapid-growing initial stage to more complex diverse mature forms, so reminiscent of ontogeny in organisms that the evidence for ecosystems as biological individuals must be seriously considered. Biogeochemistry and comparative planetology is also virtually absent here. Chemistry is embraced only in the case of genetic examples that support Gould's deeply evolutionary but anti-adaptationist view. While correct and salutory, Gould's verbosely panoramic perspective is hardly as comprehensive or modern as might be hoped.  There is virtually no discussion of global ecological effects of evolution, for example.  Despite the long discussion of minute variations in standard evolutionary theory, there remains a zoological neglect of the roles of microbes in generating real diversity in ecology and evolution, and the book is heavily lopsided toward theoretical work of the nineteenth and early twentieth century. Although a significant document which should be of interest to virtually all biologists, The Structure of Evolutionary Theory is a Gouldian swan song-a brilliant defense of classical natural history's comprehensive outlook, but ironically lacking in many of the recent biological facts and perspectives (not to mention disciplines) to merge the life sciences in an evolutionary view that is sufficiently comprehensive.win<BR>altogether). Perhaps the biggest oversights of Gould's huge book are his paucity of discussion of symbiosis or lateral genetic transfer-for Gould evolution is only about branching clades, not anastomosis-and his lack of ecology.  Because they can be imagined reproducing, Gould argues eloquently for the reification of the taxonomic abstraction species (leading him to adopt the term &quot;species-individual&quot;), yet dismisses the ecosystem as a relative non-entity. (The most striking, if tentative example for me, was Gould's mention of Jeff Podos's work in which evolution at the level of the individual bird beaks used in feeding could lead-because change of beak shape leads also to different characteristic birdsongs used in mate recognition and avian courtship-to faster-evolving clades of bird species.) Yet ecosystems display successional processes of striking uniformity from a rapid-growing initial stage to more complex diverse mature forms, so reminiscent of ontogeny in organisms that the evidence for ecosystems as biological individuals must be seriously considered. Biogeochemistry and comparative planetology is also virtually absent here. Chemistry is embraced only in the case of genetic examples that support Gould's deeply evolutionary but anti-adaptationist view. While correct and salutory, Gould's verbosely panoramic perspective is hardly as comprehensive or modern as might be hoped.  There is virtually no discussion of global ecological effects of evolution, for example.  Despite the long discussion of minute variations in standard evolutionary theory, there remains a zoological neglect of the roles of microbes in generating real diversity in ecology and evolution, and the book is heavily lopsided toward theoretical work of the nineteenth and early twentieth century. Although a significant document which should be of interest to virtually all biologists, The Structure of Evolutionary Theory is a Gouldian swan song-a brilliant defense of classical natural history's comprehensive outlook, but ironically lacking in many of the recent biological facts and perspectives (not to mention disciplines) to merge the life sciences in an evolutionary view that is sufficiently comprehensive.	2002-11-12
US	35811293	R23HZMM9F90QGC	0801437709	568127698	The Science of Illusions	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The Illusion of Always Being Right	Jacques Ninio, who has written on everything from molecular evolution to the debilitating prejudices of scientific research journals, begins his latest work with the sentence: \\"The illusion of always being right.\\"  Of course his book,; but because to be right, in French-avoir raison-means, idiomatically and literally, \\"to have reason,\\" something gets lost, right from the start, in the translation. (The Science of Illusions, was translated from the 1998 French edition).  What gets lost is the double entendre, in French tangled up, of being right as having reason.<br />Now this may be a small point, and it is, but it illustrates the enormity of Ninio's task, coming to grips with the endlessly fascinating and ever elusive world of illusions.  Vladimir Nabokov in his lectures on literature says that the most intriguing things in art as in life always involve an element of deception.  Einstein, in many well-known quotes, emphasizes the call of wonder, of the emotion of surprise as a motor promoting the curiosity necessary for the scientific enterprise.  Long interested in geometrical deceptions, Ninio's emphasis is on optical illusions-and explanations of them, sometimes complementary, sometimes contradictory.  Why does the moon sometimes look so large near the horizon?  Believe it or not, thick academic books have been devoted to probing the mystery of this illusion alone-and here, offering more than one solution, suggests that the normal view in human evolution, horizontally across the horizon, is filled with visual referents for comparison, while the vertical view up into space is not.  Seen (as it usually is not) against the little objects of the landscape, the distant moon is put into a foreign frame, and looks huge.  Ninio explores similar visual tricks such as why isolated lines joined in crosses look shorter than their unattached cousins, why stairways look steeper from far away, and that 19th century parlor curiosity, why top hats look longer than they are wide?<br />Ninio's discussion is focused mostly on optical illusions, with brief excursions into the auditory and tactile realms and a brave if short chapter on stage magic in which he shares his experience of catching a magician on television by slowing down a videotape, and thus exposing the loading of a bird done by quickness.  But the popular clich&eacute; that \\"the hand is quicker than the eye\\" is also (professional magicians know) a form of distraction on the plane of explanation: only a very small minority of tricks are accomplished by quickness, the vast majority being the result of the distraction which magicians call \\"misdirection.\\"  And there are other illusion-steeped topics Ninio doesn't discuss: linear time (which Einstein called a persistent illusion), evolutionary epistemology (e.g., might not the truth ultimately be inimical to survival?), death, consciousness, the metaphoricity of \\"literal\\" language (e.g., \\"concrete\\"), free will (is it real?), and so on.  In Hindu mythology the world is a game, lila, veil, or maya, of phenomena.<br />Ninio's narrowness allows him to go into detail about specific common misperceptions of geometrical figures, natural and urban landscapes and so on.  But what might have happened if the narrator was not so trustworthy but unreliable, as in a novel, or if Ninio had attacked as illusions the egos of his readers with the same scientific thoroughness and creativity he musters in his analyses of optical illusions?  I confess to being somewhat disappointed that multiple (and not always exquisitely translated) interpretations are given of minor (and sometimes, at least for me, not even visible) optical illusions when other possible illusions, grander and more foundational, such as those explored by neurology, were not even discussed. In an email from Ninio he blames this on trouble that occurred in transferring the artwork during translation. (Robert Frost defined poetry as that which gets lost in translation!)<br />And yet this elucidates the nature of illusion itself.  Perhaps we can get glimpses of the whole but the fact remains that each and all of us-even all of us together as a parallel processing technologically connected scientific society-is only a part of the system we observe.  The well-known mysteries of quantum physics hinge  in part at least upon the necessity of reintroducing the observer who, for convenience's sake, had long before been removed (at least theoretically) from the system.  Newer illusions, such as the mistaken apprehension of purpose, design, or life in thermodynamic systems, can also be understood as the result of the hidden operation of what has been observationally excluded.  (So, too, the Monty Hall Paradox, if you know it, can be understood as an illusion of misplaced probabilities due to not accounting for information provided by the moderator assumed to be \\"outside\\" the frame of operation.)<br />\\"The illusion of always having reason\\"-Ninio's opening fragment, interpreted literally if not figuratively, intimates our perfectly human inability to keep illusion caged to the stage of entertainment or science.  If we do not have reason, we lose the very means to detect sensory illusions.  The senses, if they do not always tell the truth, require thought-itself a kind of supersense-to make sense. For it is our reason, our ratiocination or rationality-neurologically identified with the more recently evolved prefrontal cortex-that is responsible for sorting out conflicting perceptual cues.  There is one world but many perceptions of it, reflecting the manifold beings which inhabit it.  And yet evolutionary expediency allows us, no forces us (unless we are mad or drugged) to conceive of this world as whole despite being formed from data fragments.  For example, you only have eyes in front of our head yet your conception of the space around you is not marked by a huge gap corresponding to the back of your head.  Incomplete beings, we are \\"Procrustean\\" in our perception: we cannot help but fill in the blanks.  Such endemic Procrusteanism may be instinctive, as in much perception or, as with Ninio here, consciously scientific in its explication of how perception works.idates the nature of illusion itself.  Perhaps we can get glimpses of the whole but the fact remains that each and all of us-even all of us together as a parallel processing technologically connected scientific society-is only a part of the system we observe.  The well-known mysteries of quantum physics hinge  in part at least upon the necessity of reintroducing the observer who, for convenience's sake, had long before been removed (at least theoretically) from the system.  Newer illusions, such as the mistaken apprehension of purpose, design, or life in thermodynamic systems, can also be understood as the result of the hidden operation of what has been observationally excluded.  (So, too, the Monty Hall Paradox, if you know it, can be understood as an illusion of misplaced probabilities due to not accounting for information provided by the moderator assumed to be \\"outside\\" the frame of operation.)<br />\\"The illusion of always having reason\\"-Ninio's opening fragment, interpreted literally if not figuratively, intimates our perfectly human inability to keep illusion caged to the stage of entertainment or science.  If we do not have reason, we lose the very means to detect sensory illusions.  The senses, if they do not always tell the truth, require thought-itself a kind of supersense-to make sense. For it is our reason, our ratiocination or rationality-neurologically identified with the more recently evolved prefrontal cortex-that is responsible for sorting out conflicting perceptual cues.  There is one world but many perceptions of it, reflecting the manifold beings which inhabit it.  And yet evolutionary expediency allows us, no forces us (unless we are mad or drugged) to conceive of this world as whole despite being formed from data fragments.  For example, you only have eyes in front of our head yet your conception of the space around you is not marked by a huge gap corresponding to the back of your head.  Incomplete beings, we are \\"Procrustean\\" in our perception: we cannot help but fill in the blanks.  Such endemic Procrusteanism may be instinctive, as in much perception or, as with Ninio here, consciously scientific in its explication of how perception works.	2002-11-12
US	35811293	RFH2URFQJ9AYP	0195121058	420872679	Investigations	Books	3	28	32	N	N	Kauffman's Attempt to Explain Life Thermodynamically	At one point in his Investigations Stuart Kauffman ponders who's genius is to be more coveted: Einstein's or Shakespeare's? This offhand reverie occurs in a wide-ranging, not entirely crafty work long on theory and short on natural history and facts. Its goal at times seems as much to dazzle and bamboozle us with his brilliance as to inform us. What is one to make of this man who, until his recent eclipse by Stephen Wolfram, has been the premier spokesman of complexity, courted by corporations and politicians, an apprentice jazz drummer with the ear of a handful of Nobel Prize winners, the chief and charming interdisciplinarian guru of the most exciting abstract think tank in the world, the Santa Fe Institute?<br />Although Kauffman may be buying into his own hype, and though this book in the end may not say much, one thing about it is very interesting: Kauffman argues-ultimately against the grain of complexity and chaos theory, and perhaps against science itself-that highly complex things may not be \\"finitely prestatable\\"-Newtonian equations may allow man to get to the moon, but they don't predict the shape and location of Neil Armstron's footprint! (Ironically, this whole book can be read as a prophylactic counterargument to Wolfram's A New Kind of Science, which appeared later.) I love the future, wrote Nietzsche, because it is unkown. Happily, this is true--but the price exacted by Kauffman as imperial tailor may be a bit high, considering the quality of the fabric in Emperor Technoscience's new suit of clothes.<br />Another theory advanced by Kauffman here is that the biosphere is racing \\"as fast as possible\\" into \\"the adjacent possible.\\" He highlights the mathematical fact that elapsed time since the origin of the universe has been woefully inadequate to accomodate all possible comibinations of its constituent particles. The biosphere is, in mathematicians' terms, \\"non-ergoidic,\\" i.e. non-repeating. This is important because thermodynamics-the study of energy and its transformations-has in modern times been based on the statistics of mixing. When your cream mixes with your coffee, they come to equilibrium: there are far more ways for the constituents to be mixed than separated. So in the forward flow of time the consituents naturally intermingle, and the temperature of the coffee equilibrates with that of the room. Such mixing was even thought by Boltzmann, a founder of statistical mechanics, to provide the direction of linear time. But Poincar&eacute; and others showed that the direction of increasing probability does not insure mixing. Over infinite time, even rare combinations would occur, and not once but an infinite number of times. Einstein and G&ouml;del subsequently worked on trying to find a better reason for time's apparent one-way flow, but they failed. Indeed, even the equations of Einstein and Bohr and others-which underlie virtually all of modern science-are flawed in their assumption that we can state beforehand the environment we want to predict. We cannot just apply laws because evolution is too strong. Drawing (with some reservations) on the work of cosmologist and friend, Lee Smolin, who argues for a cosmic selection in which universal constants are born in black holes, Kauffman says what we call laws are not given but must occur over evolutionary time, like human legal codes. The regime of chromosomes and meiosis in cells, for example, operates as a law even though it apeared in time. A trilobite that jumped left, instead of right, and was devoured, took the genes of an entire lineage with her, never to be seen again. The first flying squirrel really just had ugly flaps of skin that came in handy when she jumped. Such evolutionary events, occuring as the cosmos (and with it life) head nonergodically into the \\"adjacent possible,\\" cannot be finitely prestated, Kauffman tells us, over and again. As a philosophy, the adjacent possible is reminiscent of the viewpoint Kundera puts forward in The IncredibleLightness of Being. But there is a big problem with the science, especially Kauffman's hyper-ambitious attempt to derive a new, fourth law of thermodynamics. To the person with a hammer everything is apotential nail: to the complexity theorist, everything is similar to a program on a personal computer. Kauffman recognizes this weakness. His new would-be \\"constructivist\\" (rather than reductionist) science is implicitly a critique of algorithmic complexity itself, of the computation of outcomes based on initial conditions made so much easier by the PC. His Boolean algebraic explanation of how regulatory<br />There are simpler, better explanations of life's defiance of algorithmic complexity than a lawlike flight of life, the universe, and everything into the adjacent possible. First of all, if the universe were collapsing as fast as possible into the adjacent possible, becoming as complex as it can, it might be teeming with life rather than radiation and matter. Better than devising a new, fourth law (and then retrofitting it to the cosmos) is to extend the second law. It is crucial to remember that the 2nd law was originally stated for isolated systems rather than the open ones of life and the cosmos; that its original incarnation thus covered the special rather than the general case. This is why it must be extended, as indeed it has been in an anthology called What is Life: The Next Fifty Years, to which Kauffman contributed (!), by the thermodynamicist Eric D. Schneider. Dramatically contrasting with Kauffman's complex charts and explanations, Schneider elegantly writes that \\"nature abhors a gradient.\\" A gradient, a difference across a distance, collapses naturally, giving rise to cycling complex systems without interference from human computer programmers. Examples of such natural complexity include tornados (the result of barometric pressure differences), hurricanes, convection cells, chemical autocatlytic reactions and life itself. The thermodynamics of the extended second law, applying neatly to biospheric complexity, derives from Vladimir Vernadsky, Alfred Lotka, Joseph Kestin, Keenan, Hatsopoulos, Harold Morowitz, and others. But, since they are not mentioned, one can only assume that Kauffman did not do his homework on the thermodynamics of life before trying to stamp his own name on the field.of Being. But there is a big problem with the science, especially Kauffman's hyper-ambitious attempt to derive a new, fourth law of thermodynamics. To the person with a hammer everything is apotential nail: to the complexity theorist, everything is similar to a program on a personal computer. Kauffman recognizes this weakness. His new would-be \\"constructivist\\" (rather than reductionist) science is implicitly a critique of algorithmic complexity itself, of the computation of outcomes based on initial conditions made so much easier by the PC. His Boolean algebraic explanation of how regulatory <br />There are simpler, better explanations of life's defiance of algorithmic complexity than a lawlike flight of life, the universe, and everything into the adjacent possible. First of all, if the universe were collapsing as fast as possible into the adjacent possible, becoming as complex as it can, it might be teeming with life rather than radiation and matter. Better than devising a new, fourth law (and then retrofitting it to the cosmos) is to extend the second law. It is crucial to remember that the 2nd law was originally stated for isolated systems rather than the open ones of life and the cosmos; that its original incarnation thus covered the special rather than the general case. This is why it must be extended, as indeed it has been in an anthology called What is Life: The Next Fifty Years, to which Kauffman contributed (!), by the thermodynamicist Eric D. Schneider. Dramatically contrasting with Kauffman's complex charts and explanations, Schneider elegantly writes that \\"nature abhors a gradient.\\" A gradient, a difference across a distance, collapses naturally, giving rise to cycling complex systems without interference from human computer programmers. Examples of such natural complexity include tornados (the result of barometric pressure differences), hurricanes, convection cells, chemical autocatlytic reactions and life itself. The thermodynamics of the extended second law, applying neatly to biospheric complexity, derives from Vladimir Vernadsky, Alfred Lotka, Joseph Kestin, Keenan, Hatsopoulos, Harold Morowitz, and others. But, since they are not mentioned, one can only assume that Kauffman did not do his homework on the thermodynamics of life before trying to stamp his own name on the field.	2002-11-12
US	35811293	R1VR8ASA50C00S	0679727280	977303639	Look at the Harlequins!	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Metafictional Madness	Beginning with a list of the author's &quot;other&quot; books, which don't exist outside the distorted mirror world of what Nabakov calls &quot;LATH&quot; (as he acronymically pegs Look At The Harlequins! within that book's own text) is a wildly inventive metafiction in the bilingually verbose hyper-alliterative Nabokovian mold. We get splendid sentences here on the jeweled gift of selfhood giving reason to resist suicide from whatever facet, cranky meditations on the author's pederastic proclivities and ego, and, most brilliantly, strange slips down the semiotic slope into madness.  In two or three places in this book we find ourselves in a meticulously rendered literary reality and then, through a process of what one might call overdescription as exquisite as it is subtle, we find that our narrator has lost contact with the very rich world he has created for us; there is also a (to me) fascinating motif of the author's self-analysis of a strange spatial or geographical malady: he cannot mentally reverse himself and return after picturing a scene in his mind's eye.  (This perhaps is meant as a sly parallel to time's one-way flow: time, which via the magic of the book, as opposed to the temporal incarceration of life, can be reversed--a hint of a kind of &quot;law of nature&quot; that might apply to a &quot;real&quot; metafictional character.) And despite the hefty overlap of the life of the protagonist with that of Nabokov (e.g., he has English tutors, Russian aristocratic blood, contempt for psychoanalysts, and the like), this book is clearly metafiction. The protagonist here, as with the protagonists in Transparent Things and Lolita, is fascinated by butterflies but not an entomologist of Nabokov's caliber. What makes LATH different from the work of other authors of metafiction's alluringly magical, &quot;self&quot;-indulgent mode, depends on the previous richness Nabokov has built up in his fictions which, from the Russian-drafted Gift to Humbert Humbert in Lolita,  *already* deal with a protagonist much like the author.  Thus the slippage here is not dual, between the author and his protagonist, but &quot;trial&quot; (as one might say), between the author, his protagonist, and the lives of his other protagonists, memorably Humbert Humbert of Lolita. Nabokov is having sly taunts: not only at  America's image of him as author of Lolita, but at himself for being too quick to disidentify from that potent catcher of words and nymphs,<br />and finally perhas, at the ontological conceit of a fixed self that could be wholly either one or another.  The protagonist here is a dialectical monster flitting between Nabokov and Humbert Humbert, a monster Nabokov himself capture's like a moth between LATH's pages. The last, and in some ways perhaps richest novel from a modern master.ta,  *already* deal with a protagonist much like the author.  Thus the slippage here is not dual, between the author and his protagonist, but &quot;trial&quot; (as one might say), between the author, his protagonist, and the lives of his other protagonists, memorably Humbert Humbert of Lolita. Nabokov is having sly taunts: not only at  America's image of him as author of Lolita, but at himself for being too quick to disidentify from that potent catcher of words and nymphs,<BR>and finally perhas, at the ontological conceit of a fixed self that could be wholly either one or another.  The protagonist here is a dialectical monster flitting between Nabokov and Humbert Humbert, a monster Nabokov himself capture's like a moth between LATH's pages. The last, and in some ways perhaps richest novel from a modern master.	2002-11-11
