US	35854103	R1BNL1KC3TZYTN	0195139240	614933956	The Oxford Guide to United States Supreme Court Decisions	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A mini-encyclopedia of Supreme Court decisions.	_The Oxford Guide to United States Supreme Court Decisions_ (Kermit Hall, ed.) is a decent reference source on Supreme Court cases.  It contains a fair amount of basic info on the cases it covers, their historical background and how the decisions were reached.  The entries in this book are by no means extensive, comprehensive or authoritative.  Some of the cases were, disappointingly, covered in far too cursory a manner.  I wanted to use this book as a side reference for a Con Law (Separation of Powers and Federalism) class in which I am currently enrolled.  It has been of use for understanding some of the more densely written cases (i.e., the ones written by Rehnquist and O'Conner) but I was expecting a book which goes into more detail.  Also, the double columns of type, dark colored paper and extremely small font size make reading anything inside somewhat of an unnecessary strain.  However, I still recommend this book as a reference for the topic.	2005-10-07
US	35854103	R2U5NUFIDWO8Y3	0195176618	810783857	The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Massive tome on the Supreme Court.	_The Oxford Companion to the United States Supreme Court of the United States_  (Kermit Hall, ed.) is a massive tome containing a vast swath of information: cases, traditions, theories of constitutional interpretations, historical events, and biographies of all of the Supreme Court Justices.  It has the same material (word for word) as Kermit Hall's _The Oxford Guide to United States Supreme Court Decisions_ but this is much more worthwhile reference work because it contains more contextual material than the cases themselves.  This book is by no means exhaustive, but it provides a very informative overview of what the Supreme Court has been up to for the past two hundred years and the very different personalities serving on the body.	2005-10-07
US	35854103	R11J6VZ9YXD2MT	0875814271	178656983	Comparative Politics: Political Economy, Political Culture, and Political Interdependence	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A user-friendly, if boring, textbook on comparative politics.	I had to read Monte Palmer's _Comparative Politics_ text for a class.  The book compares the political structures and systems of ten different countries: Britain, France, Germany, Japan, Russia, China, India, Mexico, Egypt and Nigeria.  Of these ten I read the sections covering Britain, France, Germany, Japan, Russia, China and Mexico.  The edition is a little outdated (2001).  It doesn't fit well with the post-9/11 political setup, and it doesn't have very up to date statistics for the countries listed.  And needless to say, the book itself is extremely boring and tedious to read.  However, the book was uncomplicated, easy to follow and understand and very well organized.  It does an excellent job at showing the political parties in different countries and the variety of problems that they face, with a general emphasis on economic problems, social democracy (healthcare, human rights) and environmental problems.	2005-08-27
US	35854103	R1PK6JVF3AWDDN	0140188266	851518000	North of South: An African Journey (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Naipaul's glance at post-Colonial Africa	Shiva Naipaul's _North of South: An African Journey_ is the most cynical book I've ever read.  It is a travelogue of the author's visit to three postcolonial African countries in the 1970s: Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia.  Naipaul is a Hindu, born in Trinidad, and he pays attention to the role (and plight) of South Asians (Hindus, Pakistanis, Sikhs, Parsees, etc) in East Africa.  He also focuses on the black-white relations in Africa as well.  Naipaul gives Africa and everyone involved in its affairs (whites, blacks and Asians) no credit whatsoever.  Declining European colonial powers gave their African colonies political independence in the 1960s and a variety of demagogues like and Julius Nyerre in Tanzania who took power spouting third world varieties of socialism and Marxism.  Despite claims of social and economic progress, Africa remains as backward as ever. Naipaul freely writes of his disgust with the countries and its deceived leadership from the first page of the book until the last.  This book, like another reviewer noted below, certainly is not going to make it into a black studies program anytime soon.  It is a relief from portraits of Africa that classify it as a tropical paradise, a land of innocents exploited by evil Europeans, or conversely an AIDS infested human disaster.  Naipaul's cynicism shows Africa the way it really is-struggling, corrupt, deceived, but at the same time Afroca is chugging along optimistically in some areas, with idealism and occasional realism, and attempting to do as well as it can to develop itself.  No dry textbook prose here; the book is short, easy to read, engaging and very well written.	2005-08-26
US	35854103	RZ0E6HAGCNDF5	0972929207	803695350	Why Johnny Can't Think	Books	4	13	20	N	N	A heretical book!	_Why Johnny Can't Think: America's Professor Priesthood_ by Rob Whitaker is an intriguing, if extremely repetitive, polemic against the ultra-left wing educational establishment in America.  Whitaker's main targets are not the part of academia dealing with hard sciences but rather the social sciences.  Social \\"sciences\\" are not actually sciences.  They are an assortment of biased speculations, skewed studies and word twisting that is passed off as verifiable facts.  The social sciences of course include sociology, psychology, history, anthropology, international studies, economics, and of course my personal favorite: political science/government studies.  And of course, the social sciences as taught and studied in America (and throughout the entire Western world for that matter) are controlled by a cabal of hard-left tenured professors.  This self anointed \\"priesthood\\" simply wants to promote its own interests, largely at the expense of everyone else.  In order to get a degree you have to jump through some hoops in order to write what they want to read, an easy task from my own personal experience.  Professors are not above human nature by promoting their own interests and trying to dominate other aspects of society-Whitaker uses the example of businessmen creating monopolies in the late 19th/early 20th century in the name of economic freedom and market competition.  Political Correctness is the religion of these professors is.  Its God is an evil God in Whose Name all heresy is denounced-Adolph Hitler.  Whenever these professors dislike something, they label it \\"Nazi\\" and \\"fascist.\\"  The core belief of this priesthood is in the evil of white men in contrast with the goodness of the natural environment, Native Americans, blacks and women (in that order) and its main goal is the genocide of whites through racial intermixing over time.  Whitaker calls \\"political correctness\\" a religion because like every religion in the world it is based on faith and not rational inquiry.  Although this book is very repetitive in various places and lacks good transition as it shifts from topic to topic in a somewhat random manner, it underscores the problem with America's corrupt collegiate system.  There are also some very good professors out there, few and far, between who do in inform their students of real governmental, economic and social problems in the world.  I also don't know what Whitaker means when he says that schools have abolished required classes.	2005-08-26
US	35854103	R1ED5ATCP8BTR9	0312341156	246588173	Where the Right Went Wrong: How Neoconservatives Subverted the Reagan Revolution and Hijacked the Bush Presidency	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Is the Right Wrong?	Pat Buchanan's _Where the Right Went Wrong_ is an interesting book because it critiques the Bush administration from the perspective of a \\"populist conservative.\\"  There are a plethora of other reviews here so hopefully I won't belabor too long on this one.  The book is divided into several sections, dealing with issues that have the potential to confront America with extreme crises in the coming years and decades.  The first is the tremendous federal budget deficit.  Largely responsible for the government's financial debacle are FDR and Lyndon Johnson's welfare state programs launched in the 1930s and then especially en masse during the 1960s.  Furthermore, and this is where Buchanan's perspective differs radically from most contemporary conservatives, is that another cause of America's coming downfall is Bush's ill-planned war against Iraq.  Buchanan notes the often forgotten axiom that \\"one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter\\" and although bin Laden and radical Islam may be a demon to the denizens of the West, he is a hero to millions of Muslims throughout the world.  He raises the question of how it is possible to declare war on something as vague as \\"terror\\" especially since the US has collaborated with openly terroristic and totalitarian regimes in the past.  Buchanan also takes aim at the US-China trade relationship.  China has the potential to become a major world power in the coming decades and the important thing for both China and the US to work for, even if the two countries cannot be friends, is to not destroy each other.  He uses the analogy of Britain and Germany at the beginning of the twentieth century.  Another problem within the US is the dominance of the Republican party by \\"wolf in sheep's clothing\\": \\"neoconservative\\" ideologues.  These \\"neoconservatives,\\" many of whom are Jews like David Frum, Irving Kristol, Eliot Abrams, David Horowitz and Paul Wolfowitz, are ex-Trotskyite washouts who joined the Republican party when it became clear after Nixon's election that the radical left was failing as a political movement in America.  They generally support unilateral US support of Israel in the Middle East (one of many US policies enraging Islamic fundamentalists, of course) and notably, an aggressive US foreign policy to forcibly spread democracy in various trouble spots around the world.  Also a problem on the domestic front is the dominance of the US Supreme Court which has usurped Congressional authority to make laws and the executive branch of government's total reluctance to ignore Supreme Court decisions.  Buchanan's book is a glimpse into the workings of the world around us and outlines some of the issues which will eventually lead to the collapse of America and Western Civilization as they turn into a \\"tower of Babel\\" for a dummied-down, multicultural global-socialism.  A Roman Catholic, Buchanan believes that only a return to Christianity and tradition can save what is left of America in this century.	2005-05-24
US	35854103	R36WWHMWFUKXI0	0321005279	517523396	Political Thinking: The Perennial Questions, 6th Edition (Longman Classics in Political Science)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Essential Issues in Political Philosophy	Glenn Tinder's _Political Thinking: The Perennial Questions_ is an interesting introduction to the study of political philosophy and political theory.  It was assigned for an intro to political studies class I am currently enrolled in.  The book's largest strength is that it presents various viewpoints on politics and focuses on numerous profound questions: estrangement and unity, inequality and equality, who should possess, what are the limitations and what are the proper end of power, and historical change.  Tinder concludes his book with a thesis of \\"humane uncertainty.\\"  He notes how there are no exact and definite solutions to the world's political problems and that one should be extremely wary of any revolutionary political agenda, from either the right or the left, which promises a perfect world if all of its demands are met.  He also takes into close consideration, as another reviewer notes, \\"the relationship between politics and metaphysics.\\"  Tinder notes well how faith in traditional orthodox Christianity has been on the downswing in Western societies during the past several centuries and how materialistic, man-centered methods of thinking have gained ascendancy in today's societies.  Tinder's most sobering reflection is a hypothetical example of someone, someday establishing a perfect society on earth, totally eradicating injustice (in whatever form injustice may be correctly conceived).  This perfect society would eventually die out anyway and fade into oblivion with each successive generation of human beings over time.  Human history points toward an ultimate abyss as time passes making any achievement of a perfect society irrelevant in the overarching scheme of phenomena.	2005-04-02
US	35854103	RZOF4J0EYFAWZ	B0006EJM5E	482080275	Anti-Christianity, the new atheism	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Examination of Secular Philosophy.	Fr. Michael Azkoul's _Anti-Christianity: The New Atheism_ is a succinct pamphlet addressing the issue of atheism from an Eastern Orthodox perspective.  Fr. Azkoul, a Russian Orthodox priest, examines the meaning of the word atheism, derived from the Greek word \\"atheoi\\" or \\"without God.\\"  Atheism first developed during ancient Greece when the word designated someone who did not acknowledge the gods officially worshipped in the Greek city states.  Socrates were therefore labeled an \\"atheist\\" even though he did believe in a form of deity.  The early Christians were in fact labeled as \\"atheists\\" by the Roman government because the early Church did not acknowledge the Roman Imperial Cult.  Fr. Azkoul covers a wide variety of atheistic forms of thought in the brief volume and shows how it proceeds from the Christian West's \\"post-Orthodox\\" philosophy that developed withing the framework of scholastic philosophy during the Middle Ages.  Roman Catholic Scholasticism attempted to divorce theology from the teachings of the Church, and making use of Greek philosophy to prove God's revelatory character.  Fr. Azkoul disapproves of this because it makes Christian truth dependent on humanistic speculation.  The book examines Descartes, Enlightenment philosophy, Romanticism, Hegel, Marxism, Nietzsche, Darwinism, Sartre and a variety of other atheistic philosophies and thinkers.  In opposition to the sprit of 19th century of atheistic humanism is the philosophy of Fyodor Dostoyevsky, whose writings challenged secular presumptions and defended Orthodox Christianity.  Fr. Azkoul also looks at the role of the Christian monarchies overthrown in France (1789) and Russia (1917).  Such rulers have helped maintain a semblance of God's divine order on earth-but they have been overthrown by movements ostensibly serving \\"the masses\\" in the name of \\"liberty, equality and fraternity.\\"  I highly recommend this book especially since it is one of the few books examining this subject from an OrthodoxChristian view of history and philosophy.	2005-01-08
US	35854103	R364NM4QO5WZM0	0930808029	189477379	The true authorship of the New Testament	Books	1	65	90	N	N	A Bizarre Conspiracy Theory.	Abelard Reuchlin's \\"The True Authorship of the New Testament\\" (1979) is a strange little pamphlet.  I bought it over two years ago when I saw it advertised in a secular humanist periodical as a definitive debunking of the accuracy of the New Testament.  The pamphlet's arguments are not exactly scientific (like secular humanism itself) but belong to pseudo-science, speculation, theory and the occult.  It has a portrait of the notable first century Jewish historian Flavius Josephus labeled \\"Arius Calpurnius Piso, pen name Flavius Josephus, a Roman.\\"  The introduction to the book welcomes the reader to the \\"inner circle.\\"  Reuchlin's \\"inner circle\\" includes those who know about the true authorship of the New Testament and he states his work was originally intended for Jews only (to prevent them from converting to Christianity) but is now seeking a wider audience.  In this introduction, Reuchlin also rants and raves against perceived enemies of the Jewish people such as Messianic Jews, anybody who is opposed to the state of Israel (any criticism of Israel inherently hateful and \\"anti-Semitic,\\" of course), Christian-Identity believers (an arrayed group of Christians who believe northern Europeans like the Anglo-Saxons, Germans, Scandinavians and Celts are descended from the lost tribes of Israel), and Arabs and Communists because they frequently attack Israeli/Jewish political interest through the auspices of the UN. <br /> <br />Reuchlin then goes on to concoct one of the most far-fetched conspiracy theories ever put into print.  This might be farther out there than Jesus' secret bloodline but I guess not as far-fetched as black UN helicopters, mind-control technology and weather manipulation devices.  According to Reuchlin, the ancient Roman aristocratic family of Arius Calpurnius Piso conspired to gain political and spiritual control of the Roman Empire by forging an entirely new religion based on Jewish Scriptures-and make this religion combat the growing popularityof Judaism and the political power of Jews, who made up ten percent of the Empire's population in the first century.  The writings the Piso family produced were encoded in various places through names and hidden symbolism (for example Piso [Pisces] refers to a fish on the zodiac and was a symbol for Christianity).  Reuchlin contends that Arius Calpurnius Piso made up the pen name \\"Flavius Josephus\\" to write his histories of both the Hebrew people and the Jewish War in Palestine during AD 70 when the Temple was razed by Titus' forces.  Other writings were forged by the Piso family and their cronies, which included the Roman philosopher Seneca and the historians Pliny and Tacitus.  The entire Greek New Testament; various Messianic prophecies in the Greek Septuagint translation of the Hebrew scriptures; the \\"Apocryphal\\" books like Esdras, Tobit, Judith, Bel and the Dragon and I Maccabees; the writings of the early Church Fathers like Clement of Rome, St. Ignatius of Antioch and St. Polycarp of Smyrna; second century Christian texts like the Shepard of Hermas, Barnabas, the Didache and the Martyrdom of Polycarp-all of these were forgeries.  Jesus and St. Paul were made up characters and the later Church writings were composed as a form of \\"self-fulfilling prophecy.\\"  The \\"Apocrypha\\" was forged to bridge the gap in Scriptural history from 400 BC (the time of the exiles return from Babylon) until the time of Christ.  Reuchlin then goes on for several pages using cabbalistic numerology (he adds 2 and 2 to get 22, that how numerology works!) in the Greek and Latin texts to prove how Christianity has been a giant, millennium long conspiracy against the Jews.  He believes Christianity to be inherently anti-Semitic because its savior, Jesus, is brought to trial by Jewish religious leaders.  Reuchlin also takes potshots against the Koran because it mentions Jesus as a \\"prophet\\" of God and speculates that whoever wrote the Koran and backed Muhammad was connected to the same multi-generational conspiracy that created Christianity. <br /> <br />Go ahead and read this book.  It does not contain any cogent revelations or information-just hypothetical conclusions drawn from perceived \\"coincidences\\" and letter codes--that will shatter Christianity (\\"and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it\\").	2005-01-05
US	35854103	RYQWYXXBF5HYK	093863514X	329871345	The Soul After Death	Books	5	44	48	N	N	Fr. Seraphim Rose on the Orthodox Teaching of the Afterlife.	Fr. Seraphim Rose's _The Soul After Death_ is a significant work on eschatology.  It addresses the eternally important question of what happens to us when we die.  Fr. Seraphim (a Russian Orthodox monk) wrote this book in the late 1970s originally as a series in his periodical _The Orthodox Word_ in response to a wave popular books and research that was published on \\"after death\\" and \\"out of body\\" experiences.  He makes frequent reference to the cases catalogued and examined in Dr. Kubler-Ross' work, _On Death and Dying_ (1969).  These incidents were of particular interest to Fr. Seraphim who sought to interpret them in terms of traditional Eastern Orthodox theology. <br /> <br />Many patients in hospitals have reported seeing beautiful fields and \\"paradises\\" while they are either unconscious or \\"clinically dead\\" before they are resuscitated.  These visions are often accompanied by experiences of beautiful light and a being that approaches them with \\"love.\\"  In contrast, Some reports on this \\"other world\\" are sinister, which may indicate a foretaste of hell.  Other visions include individuals \\"floating\\" above their own bodies while they are unconscious and seeing doctors and loved ones around them.  Some even experience talking to \\"angelic beings\\" of different sorts and visiting physical proximities familiar to themselves while they were still alive.  In spite of all of the speculations about this mysterious realm, Fr. Seraphim affirms that it lies in a sphere of existence between the physical earth and heaven and hell inhabited by the demons/fallen angels.  He notes how mystical occult adepts have been able to travel in this realm, as evident in the writings of Emmanuel Swedenbourg (a seventeenth century Swede) and the 19th century Theosophists and spiritists.  These visions are caused by demons who attempt to deceive souls that are disembodied before they pass onto the \\"toll houses.\\"  The toll-houses are not encountered in most \\"after death\\" experiences recorded in medical and occult literature but are known though Orthodox Christian sources such as the Lives of Saints and various Patristic writings.   <br /> <br />These toll houses are to be understood metaphorically, as Fr. Seraphim points out, because they illustrate the reality of the soul's need to overcome the temptations and accusations of demons that attempt to draw the soul away from God's love and the saving work of Christ.  The demons accuse the soul of evil deeds but angels sent from God try to outweigh the demons by bringing up the soul's righteous works and faithfulness to Christ.  If the person's soul has more demonic weight then it is cast into hell to await the Last Judgment while those passing the demons ascend unto heavens to be with God.  Orthodox literature affirms the existence of these toll-houses, from St. Paul's teaching on a \\"struggle not against flesh but against principalities, etc.\\"  The realm of the air is where the demons are condemned to tempt human souls before they are in turn sent to hell at the Last Judgment.  Demons are of course invisible to human senses but the fruits of their actions are shown in the human misery, chaos and sin enveloping the world.  Even though both demons and angels are beyond general human sense perception, they still belong to the realm of creation and thus \\"to this world.\\"  Furthermore, these sprits have definite forms and are finite in their movements (any quality of infinity belonging to God alone), so therefore they can be said to have \\"bodies\\" in a similar manner to the way humans do, if not physical ones.  Fr. Seraphim places special emphasis, citing a great many prominent Orthodox Fathers and spiritual writers, on praying for the dead after because prayers help some souls attain to heaven by calling upon God's mercy with fervor. <br /> <br />Fr. Seraphim includes two sections of appendix material after he wraps up his summary of the toll-house teachings as handed down in the Orthodox Church.  One is writtenby St. Mark of Ephesus, a Byzantine theologian of the 1400s who defended the Orthodox teaching on the afterlife against Latin theologians who advocated the Roman Church's innovative doctrine of Purgatory.  The second appendix addresses a set of critiques levied against Fr. Seraphim's book by a periodical published by St. Nectarios Church in Seattle, Washington when _The Soul After Death_ was originally serialized.  Fr. Seraphim's critic is probably Fr. Michael Azkoul whose writings on this subject critical of Fr. Seraphim's theology are distributed by St. Nectarios Press, although Fr. Seraphim does not name the critic in print.  Some of the charges laid against this book are that it promotes a superstitious, Gnostic and even pagan look at the afterlife.  Fr. Seraphim answers this by citing the works of the Fathers on the subject, especially the 19th century Russian Bishops Ignatius Brianchaninov and St. Theophan (the Recluse).  This is a very interesting book on the nature of the afterlife as it has been taught in the Orthodox Church and makes edifying reading to those previously not in the know. <br />	2005-01-05
US	35854103	R35YVZTGYQPJQX	080102577X	739018236	On the Road to Armageddon: How Evangelicals Became Israel's Best Friend	Books	5	85	91	N	N	The Strange Christian-Israeli Alliance.	Timothy Weber has written a fascinating theological/political history in his book, _On the Road to Armageddon: How Evangelicals Became Israel's Best Friend_.  It covers a strange and often neglected alliance between a subset of Christian Protestant evangelicals (specifically, \\"dispensationalists\\") and the political aspirations of Zionism and Israeli expansionism in the Middle East.  It also covers in detail related topics such as evangelical missions to convert Jews in the US, Messianic Judaism, Jews for Jesus, popular works of dispensationalist literature, Israeli tours in the Holy Land, and charities formed to Russian Jews in Palestine. <br /> <br />Dispensationalist theology developed in the 19th century at the hand of a British minister, John Darby, who carried his message to the United States.  The dispensationalist method of Bible interpretation owes greatly to the Scofield Reference Bible (1908).  Central to dispensationalist theology is the idea that God has dealt with humanity in a series of \\"dispensations\\" where man has been judged based on whether or not he has responded to God's demands correctly.  After Christ, believers are saved by faith in the Lord Jesus and may attain to resurrection from the dead and heavenly glories.  Central to God's plans for humanity in this age, as Weber focuses on in this book, is the return of Jews to Palestine.  In order for Christ to return, the Antichrist needs to set up a one world government and command himself to be worshipped as God in the reconstructed Temple in Jerusalem.  The Antichrist will persecute Jews who will in turn come to recognize Christ as their savior and repent of their unbelief.  In the interim, an estimated two-thirds of Israel will be destroyed by the ravages of the Antichrist.  However, believing Christians will not have to suffer this persecution because they will be \\"raptured\\" before the global strife (Tribulation) begins.  After Christ returns he will set up a millennial kingdom in Israel as theJewish Messiah in literal fulfillment of such prophecies found in Ezekiel and Revelation.   <br /> <br />Dispensationalists are reactionaries against theological liberalism and are not connected to established Christian churches.  Many of their pastors base their ministries on charisma and preaching rather than institutional authority.  Many have built up huge media-ecclesiastical enterprises in the past thirty years.  The most popular of the early dispensationalist book was of course the _Scofield Reference Bible_ and a number of books from the early 1900s, many of which dealt with coming destruction of the world, political conspiracies and Jesus' eminent return.  In the later 1900s, dispensationalist publications such as Hal Lindsey's _The Late Great Planet Earth_ (1970) and the _Left Behind_ series (late 1990s/early 2000s) by Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins sold tens of millions of copies.  Other notable dispensationalist enterprises include John Hagee's 17,000-member Cornerstone Church in Dallas Texas and Pat Robertson's media network such as his Christian Broadcasting Network.  Probably the most notorious involvement of dispensationalists in the political arena was that of Jerry Falwell's pro-Regan Moral Majority during the 1980s. <br /> <br />Because of their belief in the eminence of the Apocalypse, Weber has catalogued how dispensationalists have reacted to the various episodes of political turmoil, especially in the Middle East during the 1900s.  Dispensationalists were generally pro-American in WWI but were not the War's strongest supporters.  They were pleased after the Ottoman Empire fell to British forces and signing of the Balfour declaration when the British government promised to establish a homeland for Jews in Palestine.  World War II was met with mixed responses.  Some dispensationalists read \\"signs of the times\\" in the Jewish sufferings at the hand of Hitler.  After the WWII, the British were reluctant to continually allowing Jews to emigrate to Palestine in the wake of Arab protest and subsequent civil unrest.  However, the State of Israel declared its independence in 1948 as a Jewish State after terrorist and diplomatic pressure forced the British to capitulate.  Isreal's founding was viewed as a veritable miracle.  Dispensatinalists were especially pleased by Israel's lightning fast war in 1967 against Egypt, Syria and Jordan.  The Sinai Peninsula, Gaza Strip, Golan Heights, West Bank (which includes the ancient Biblical regions of Judea and Samaria) and most importantly, East Jerusalem, were returned to Jewish hands for the first time in 2,000 years.  Israel could also count on American dispensationalist support for its bombing of an Iraqi nuclear reactor in 1981 and its invasion of Lebanon in 1982.  Furthermore, Dispensationalists attempted to read prophetic events into Israel's conflict with Saddam Hussein, who was \\"exposed\\" in several sensational pieces of literature as a new Nebuchadnezzar bent of destroying Israel because Iraq occupies similar territory as the ancient Babylonian Empire around the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.  In contrast to the Persian Gulf War in 1991, dispensationalists were rather silent when Gulf War II broke out in 2003 and when Saddam was eventually captured by US forces. <br /> <br />Since much of dispensationalist eschatology centers around the Jerusalem Temple, some have gone so far as to condone violent attacks to destroy the Dome of the Rock (such as those attempted by Gush Emunim and Yoel Lerner).  Dennis Rohan, an Australian Christian inspired by apocalyptic beliefs about the eminent return of Christ, even managed to set fire to the shrine to the angst of Palestinians against the Israeli government.  Although the Dome of the Rock is still intact, Jews are technically prohibited against entering the Temple site anyway because of an obscure rule in Leviticus which requires the ashes of a red heifer sprinkled on a Jew because of ritual uncleanness derived from contact withdead bodies.  Webster points out how red heifers that meet rabbinical standards are extremely rare.  However, Israeli rabbis have developed ties to American cattle breeders to empower Israel's beef industry and hopefully breed a red heifer successfully.  Thankfully, this task has not yet been accomplished. <br /> <br />I cannot recommend Weber's book enough.  He demonstrates an excellent knowledge of the history and theology of this unusual movement in evangelical Christianity and its political alliance with Jewish nationalism.	2005-01-04
US	35854103	R36ASUUPDIHTZ3	0937944157	686114056	Blood ritual: An investigative report examining a certain series of cultic murder cases	Books	5	27	30	N	N	A Glimpse Into the Darkside.	_Blood Ritual_ by Philip de Vier is a highly controversial book on the charged issue of Jewish ritual murders.  It is published by the National Vanguard Books who dispense a wide variety of titles like this and other controversial literature.  The cover illustration is a woodcut of shady looking men cutting a young woman's throat on March 29, 1899 in what was then the Austro-Hungarian Empire.  An illustration inside shows bearded Middle Eastern-looking men drinking blood out of a child through straws.  For many centuries, Christians (and some Muslims) have accused Jews of performing ritual murders on Christian children and symbolically re-crucifying Christ by desecrating communion wafers (defined as the literal body and blood of Christ according to Roman Catholic dogma).  These incidents usually happened around the time of Easter or the Jewish feast of Purim, a celebration commemorating Jewish vengeance on adversaries from the Old Testament book of Esther in the month of March.  I remember reading how the Nuremburg executions were carried out during this time of the year in 1946, and President Bush delivered his ultimatum to Saddam Hussein on Purim in 2003.  De Vier presents his material in several sections and he covers a host of topics related to so-called \\"blood libels:\\" snuff films, child pornography, Jack the Ripper, Son of Sam, \\"vampires,\\" sympathetic magic, Voodoo sacrificial cults and other strange phenomena.  First, he establishes what exactly he is discussing and researching in an introduction and from there shows how he will examine the evidence from the material he gathered from studying these bizarre and far-flung cases.  De Vier comes to the following conclusion: there has been a series of ritual murders in various countries, committed by various individuals over a period of many centuries dating from medieval times to possibly the present.  Generally a murdered body was found with strange cut marks on it near the times of Easter/Passover and Purim which sometimes let to outbreaks of violence against Jews.  The official line of this story is that none of these victims (some of whom were revered as Saints until recently in the Roman Catholic Church) were victims of Jewish violence and that attacks on Jews were motivated by irrational Christian anti-Semitism and racial hatred.  To de Vier's credit, he acknowledges the speculative, open-for-debate nature of this conclusion because it is somewhat (or very, depending on the reader's biases) controversial and inflammatory.  Much of the book consists of de Vier's timeline of ritual murder cases.  He draws up a \\"profile\\" of those likely to commit ritual crime: they tend to have strong motives of vengeance, power drive and psychosexual perversion.  De Vier then details ritual murder cases dating from the sacrifice of Jepthah's daughter (Judges 11) and the human sacrifice cult of Moloch dating from the 900s B.C. to a Brazilian and Italian child pornography ring bust that had international connections in September 2000.  The timeline has an encyclopedia of ritual murder cases including the famous cases of Simon of Trent, a young boy found murdered in Italy in 1475 and later revered as a saint by the Church in Italy and William of Norwich, an English boy found with marks suggesting he had been nailed to a cross in 1144.  Other famous cases are covered including the 1899 murder of a young woman in Hungary, Agnes Hurza and the 1840 murder of Fr. Thomas, a Catholic priest in Damascus, Syria.  The Fr. Thomas case received very wide press attention worldwide and provoked an investigation by Ottoman authorities.  However, the issue was quickly silenced by powerful Jewish diplomatic interests in Europe.  There is also a series of very interesting cases surrounding Jack the Ripper's murders in London during the 1890s.  The victims of the Ripper were butchered with strange cuts and ritual marks.  Scrawled along the walls near one of the murders was a cryptic message that was quicklyerased by the police: \\"The Jewes are not the men to be blamed for nothing.\\"  The \\"Son of Sam\\" killings in New York during the 1970s had ritualistic overtones.  David Berkowitz said he was inspired by a demon to kill and the murders may have been committed by more than one gunman based on some evidence.  De Vier's book also covers the substantial literature produced about ritual murders including the British Nazi Arnold Leese's pamphlet _Jewish Ritual Murder_ and articles published by one of Hitler's propagandists, Julius Streicher, in the newspaper _Der Sturmer_.  A central point to de Vier's analysis is the fact that ritual murder has existed in many other cultures (or if not cultures, then outright cults and secret societies) and therefore could be practiced by Jews against Christians and other opponents.  He cites the medieval Islamic Hashishim (Assassins), India's Thuggee cult (Thugs), Aztecs, ancient Carthage (a Semitic people descended from Hebrew cousins, the Phoenicians) and African tribes where cannibalism and human sacrifice have been practiced, along with vampirism and related phenomena in the US today.  De Vier also relates another curious example of villagers in Germany sacrificing a child so a bridge would be safe from collapse during the 1800s as a totally irrational relapse back into \\"Teutonic atavism.\\"  De Vier takes the contemporary, post Vatican II Roman Catholic hierarchy to task for succumbing to Jewish pressure by disbanding the official cult status/Sainthood of victims of ritual murder, notably Simon of Trent.  He calls Vatican II \\"heretical\\" because it disavowed thousands of years of traditional imprecations against the Jews in a misguided attempt to \\"modernize\\" itself and become \\"politically correct.\\"  Of course, if the reader does not accept as a priori the Jewish control of the media (or if not \\"Jewish\\" control then control by interests sympathetic to organized Judaism and opposed to Christianity) this book will prove extremely offensive.  De Vier is careful to note that some accusations were probably false and the results of paranoia and hysteria.  However, any reader interested in the dark, conspiratorial, occult and grotesque side of human nature will find much of interest nonetheless.erased by the police: \\"The Jewes are not the men to be blamed for nothing.\\"  The \\"Son of Sam\\" killings in New York during the 1970s had ritualistic overtones.  David Berkowitz said he was inspired by a demon to kill and the murders may have been committed by more than one gunman based on some evidence.  De Vier's book also covers the substantial literature produced about ritual murders including the British Nazi Arnold Leese's pamphlet _Jewish Ritual Murder_ and articles published by one of Hitler's propagandists, Julius Streicher, in the newspaper _Der Sturmer_.  A central point to de Vier's analysis is the fact that ritual murder has existed in many other cultures (or if not cultures, then outright cults and secret societies) and therefore could be practiced by Jews against Christians and other opponents.  He cites the medieval Islamic Hashishim (Assassins), India's Thuggee cult (Thugs), Aztecs, ancient Carthage (a Semitic people descended from Hebrew cousins, the Phoenicians) and African tribes where cannibalism and human sacrifice have been practiced, along with vampirism and related phenomena in the US today.  De Vier also relates another curious example of villagers in Germany sacrificing a child so a bridge would be safe from collapse during the 1800s as a totally irrational relapse back into \\"Teutonic atavism.\\"  De Vier takes the contemporary, post Vatican II Roman Catholic hierarchy to task for succumbing to Jewish pressure by disbanding the official cult status/Sainthood of victims of ritual murder, notably Simon of Trent.  He calls Vatican II \\"heretical\\" because it disavowed thousands of years of traditional imprecations against the Jews in a misguided attempt to \\"modernize\\" itself and become \\"politically correct.\\"  Of course, if the reader does not accept as a priori the Jewish control of the media (or if not \\"Jewish\\" control then control by interests sympathetic to organized Judaism and opposed to Christianity) this book will prove extremely offensive.De Vier is careful to note that some accusations were probably false and the results of paranoia and hysteria.  However, any reader interested in the dark, conspiratorial, occult and grotesque side of human nature will find much of interest nonetheless.	2005-01-02
US	35854103	R1BH3VKG8C8YH7	0961751118	249761854	How to Build a Habitable Planet	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Goofy Science Book.	I had to use this textbook recently for an \\"Origin and Evolution of the Earth\\" basic Earth Science class.  It's surprisingly easy to read and understand as far as science textbooks go.  The humor value comes in where the author notes how many theoretical ways the world can end: a comet or asteriod colliding with the earth, the sun burning out in a few billion years, earth freezing when the tectonic plates in the earth's crust cease moving, man's ability to destroy life through pollution especially through coal buring that releases CO^2 and the hazards of nuclear waste.  The author also notes how surprisingly precarious the status of life is.  It is incredibly mind boggling how many things could have gone wrong and human beings would never have existed if the world was created and life evolved by chance as modern science maintains, as this book illustrates time and again.  Even very slight shifts in the earth's orbit around the sun, the tilt of is axis of rotation can have vast effects on climate over great periods of time.  Very interesting subject material even if one does not agree with all of the author's views.	2004-12-28
US	35854103	R2Q2P35ALZBHNV	0767430220	291055312	The Human Species: An Introduction to Biological Anthropology	Books	1	7	107	N	N	Typical Ultra-Left Propaganda.	Much of the focus in this book centers on two issues: <br /> <br />1)  There are no such thing as human \\"races,\\" <br /> <br />and 2)  Humans evolved from apes and \\"creation scientists\\" and \\"intelligent design\\" theorists are boogie-men up to no good. <br /> <br />The book totally ignores research pointing to the contrary regarding the differences between human races and does not go into any detail why there are different ones.  Races formed or \\"evolved\\" in adaptation to their environments and created different cultures to express themselves and survive in their environments to the best of their ability.  Humans were created by God and this book only shows how difficult the fossil record is to interpret.  It is unknown how many different hominids existed and to what species each fossil belonged and what specimins constitute \\"man\\" or \\"Homo sapiens sapiens\\" or not.  If anybody is interested in how ultra-left political ideals influence texbook writing and distribution look no further than this tome.	2004-12-28
US	35854103	R48ZEHECFCME4	0972416005	518988742	The Holocaust Dogma of Judaism: Keystone of the New World Order	Books	3	25	30	N	N	The Occult and Prophetic Symbolism of "Six Million."	Ben Weintraub's _The Holocaust Dogma of Judaism: Keystone of the New World Order_ is one of those obscure books on the occult and political/religious conspiracy that has something very interesting to say but goes about saying it in an extremely awkward and disorganized fashion.  Weintraub, as reading this book makes clear, is a pro-Christian conservative with pro-white separatist leanings.  As of the time of my writing this review, I have absolutely no idea who this \\"Ben Weintraub\\" actually is, whether a real author or a pseudonym.  However, Robert Brock, the publisher of this book (Cosmo Publishing), sent a pamphlet with this book when I ordered it promoting black-separatism, repatriation to Africa and slave reparations.  Brock notes in the book's back cover description how he believes that teaching Holocaust studies in public schools and the government funding of the US Holocaust Memorial Museum violates the clause in the First Amendment of the US Constitution dealing with separation of church and state.  He also maintains that America's true holocaust was the enslavement of blacks and subsequent forced integration into white majority culture during the 1960s at the expense of black culture and nationalism.  The book is haphazardly structured consisting of two-page long chapters that often do not relate to each other in a non sequitur fashion.  The end of the book contains some bizarre appendices on how the USHMM is designed with Masonic architecture and how the UN meditation room has a design on its wall promoting Satan worship through hidden cabalistic symbolism.  There is also an explanation of this book's very strange cover illustration in the introductory pages.  The cover depicts a small globe in a concentration-camp crematorium blazing fire being stabbed by the Hebrew letter VAV.  Weintraub argues in this book that the \\"Six Million\\" figure (generally acknowledged by \\"official\\" researchers worldwide as the number of Jews murdered in the Holocaust) is a rabbinical concoction derived from occult readings of Hebrew letters in the text of the Torah.  _Holocaust Dogma_ discusses Biblical numerology and some occult practices known as \\"gematria.\\"  The letter VAV represents \\"six\\" in Hebrew numerals: \\"the secret of the VAV, which is the first letter of the sixth word of the Torah, is that of a single line of light whose function is to illuminate the darkness and thus Time itself-present and future.  It is the Jewish people...it is the Jewish people standing together to do God's will engraved in the heart of every Jew, says Rabbi Yitchak Ginsburgh.\\"  The suspicion surrounding the number six in the Bible relates to a cryptic passage in the Apocalypse where the believers are warned about the \\"number of the beast [the world-ruler set up by Satan as the Antrichrist] is six-hundred and sixty six.\\"  Basically Weintraub says the six million figure was made up by rabbis to further the agenda of Jewish world domination as outlined in the Protocols of the Leaned Elders of Zion, to destroy the morale of the white race, especially the Germans, and to eradicate Christianity.  It is held by some Jews (like the radical Gush Emunim sect in Israel which has its American supporters, both Jewish and gentile) believe that Jews themselves constitute a Messiah for the redemption of the word-human beings not God are the true masters.  It is true that the Holocaust figures a great deal in American culture and that questioning the official line is a sure fire way to ruin one's reputation and be branded as something hideous, hateful and evil.  \\"The Holocaust\\" elevates the misfortunes and sufferings of Jews above those of all other peoples (who have suffered more and in greater numbers, like Christians in Soviet Russia and the Chinese under Mao's communist regime) and justifies atrocities committed against the Holy Land's true ancestral inhabitants, the native Palestinians.  I would not recommend this book as a really great introduction to the topic because it rambles so much but otherwise it brings up the issue of the occult nature of the Holocaust dogma of six million Jews murdered by \\"racist, anti-Semitic\\" white German Christians.se it rambles so much but otherwise it brings up the issue of the occult nature of the Holocaust dogma of six million Jews murdered by \\"racist, anti-Semitic\\" white German Christians.	2004-12-27
US	35854103	R16NUXZR8ZT2SG	1590080157	822564196	Forcing God's Hand: Why Millions Pray for a Quick Rapture ... and Destruction of Planet Earth	Books	4	26	33	N	N	How Heretical Christianity Supports Israeli Interests.	_Forcing God's Hand: Why Millions Pray for a Quick Rapture-And Destruction of Planet Earth_ by Grace Halsell is a very interesting book giving some surprising information about popular theological trends in American Protestantism and how they relate to the US-Israel relationship and possibly the peace and stability of the Middle East.  The book is not very academic in structure and like another reviewer notes, it \\"smacks of propaganda.\\"  Not only is this book propagandistic but it has a very left-wing slant to it as well (Halsell worked for President Johnson's administration back in the 1960s).  However, what the book does cover is substantial and reveals certain problematic issues within American Christianity and how this carries over into foreign politics.  Halsell's focus is on \\"dispensationalist\\" theology centered in \\"Bible churches\\" that began to develop during the mid 19th century by a British preacher John Darby, and popularized en masse by an American minister of questionable background, C. I. Scofield, around the turn of the century.  Scofield published the _Scofield Reference Bible_ in 1908 and since then dispensationalism has proven extremely influential amongst evangelical and fundamentalist Protestants opposed to \\"higher criticism\\" in Biblical studies and theological liberalism that developed during the latter 19th century.  Halsell notes well how dispensationalism deviates significantly from traditional Biblical interpretation agreed upon by Roman Catholic, Orthodox and mainstream Protestant churches.  Until the advent of dispensational theology, most churches held more or less to the view of St. Augustine: God's \\"chosen people\\" consisted of believers in Christ, and the Old Testament references to a literal race of people as God's chosen were superceded by the universal message of the Gospel.  Dispensationalism, on the other hand, adheres to a belief that God's covenants with Old Testament Israel (and therefore modern Jewry) are still in force.  Non-Jews are rescued from God's wrath by faith in Christ, and Christ is the Jewish messiah who will come at the end of the tribulation to establish a literal 1000 year reign on earth before the final battle between good and evil.  A main issue of contention between dispensationalists and orthodox interpretations is the issue of whether or not God's covenants with Israel were conditional or not.  Dispensationalists hold that God's covenant with Israel is unconditional while traditional interpreters maintain God's covenants effectual with the participation of the human party involved, whether with a specific individual or group of people.  God (in Genesis) promised Abraham that his descendants (the Jews) would inhabit a kingdom encompassing not only all of present-day Palestine, but Lebanon, parts of Syria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Egypt's Sinai Peninsula as well.  Not only this, but dispensationalists believe the foundation of Israel in 1948 as an officially Jewish state was a fulfillment of Biblical prophecy which is a sign of the end of time.  Jesus will return to save the Jews from coming destruction at the hands of the Antichrist after they suffered three and a half years of persecution and warfare.  Another curiosity of dispensationalist theology says that Christians will be \\"raptured\\" before the tribulation under the Antichrist begins.  Other signs of the end times include a rebuilt temple in Jerusalem complete with the Levitical animal sacrifices-where the Muslim shine Aqsa Mosque stands today, Islam's third holiest site after the Arabian cities of Mecca and Medina.  Although Jews in general have proven themselves time and time again hostile to Christian activity of any sort, Israeli politicians and military officers have developed a close relationship with American Christian fundamentalists to promote dispensational theology in return for political support for Israel.  Many prominent members of the US Republican Party are adherents of dispensational theology and attend \\"Bible\\" Churches such as Jesse Helms, Trent Lott, Ronald Regan, Tom DeLay and Oliver North.  Halsell, a left winger, is especially disturbed by some Jews in the US supporting right-wing Christians because of the security it entails for Israeli interests.  The whole fundamentalist Christian/Israeli relationship is entirely hypocritical in the first place because not all Palestinians are Muslims.  A sizable Arab Christian community has found a home in Palestine since the time of Christ alongside Jews and later Muslims for well over a thousand years.  Christians in the US are supporting a state that persecutes Christians and drives them out of their ancestral homes--at the expense of billions of dollars of US taxpayers' money of course.  Something desperately needs to be done to break this awful and inherently heretical alliance if the US wants to regain some prestige in the international community because of the widespread animosity it brings because of its unilateral support of Israel.  This book is not perfect (for example it compares supporters of Israel like Jerry Falwell to much more radical right wingers like neo-Nazis, the KKK and Christian Identity sects) but it does offer an important perspective into this critical but ignored political/religious issue.	2004-12-25
US	35854103	R29RK6GZYXI09G	B0006QC8N0	137350223	Biological evolutionism (Monographic supplement series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Brief Repudiation of Evolutionary Theory.	\\"Biological Evolutionism\\" is a brief monograph (published by the Center for Traditionalist Orthodox Studies) by Constantine Cavarnos, a Greek Orthodox professor of philosophy.  The pamphlet makes a somewhat half-hearted attempt at debunking Darwinism.  Cavarnos begins by explaining his qualifications to write on the subject.  He was enrolled as a biology student at Harvard but later changed his focus of study towards philosophy as he became aware that the natural sciences based themselves upon certain presuppositions.  Although I believe that Cavarnos is an extremely intelligent individual, he does not properly address the issue of evolution in the space of this pamphlet.  His analysis is too random and does not forthrightly base his arguments on Orthodox Theology and what deviates from it and then ends without reaching a main point.  Cavarnos describes the basic premises behind Darwinism (survival of the fittest) as having originated from the social science of Thomas Malthus, an Englishman who believed that life consisted of a struggle for survival.  Cavarnos also goes on to examine the philosophy of Lamarck, an early 19th century exponent of biological evolutionism.  Lamarck based his ideas on philosophical speculations rather than strict science.  Later researchers developed their own theories, especially in the realm of social sciences.  Cavarnos notes that neo-Lamarckian social science became extremely popular in both Soviet Russia and the United States because it held as dogma that human beings are the product of their environments and social forces-not strictly inborn characteristics or propensity to do wrong.  Darwinism in its strict form of course has not been adopted by \\"the powers that be\\" so to speak because of the rise of modern welfare states which redistribute wealth wherever it is needed or wanted.  Cavarnos concludes his treatise with a rather abrupt ending by citing several authors who argue against human evolution and instead argue that life in modern cities and civilization has in fact led to physical and mental deterioration amongst humans.  I believe there is a significant conflict between two competing views of human nature and the history of human civilization.  One, maintained nearly unanimously by those who consider themselves wise and above God, says that humans (and life in general) \\"evolved\\" by some random chance from inorganic chemical matter and is continuing in a process of further betterment and progress.  The other, as taught from traditional religion in many forms and varieties, relates humanity's fall from a higher state existence or Divine grace towards the present disorder, decay, disharmony and disunity that exists among the people of earth today.  I agree with what Cavarnos is saying in this pamphlet but it is by no means to be taken as a very authoritative or exhaustive work on this complicated subject.	2004-12-23
US	35854103	R3K97NA1CQVWD8	0913124028	532492472	Bible, Church, Tradition: An Eastern Orthodox View (Volume One in the Collected Works of Georges Florovsky)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Eastern Orthodox Affirmation of Scripture + Holy Tradition.	_Bible, Church, Tradition: An Eastern Orthodox Perspective_ by Fr. Georges Florovsky is an excellent introduction to Orthodox biblical exegesis and ecclesiology.  It should be read by Protestants, many of whom are unfamiliar (and occasionally hostile) toward Orthodox views on Scripture, as well as Roman Catholics for an alternative view to their own tradition, as well as Orthodox themselves who are looking for a short, academic but intelligible introduction to this topic.  Fr. Florovsky is considered by some to be one of the most outstanding and profound theologians of twentieth century Orthodoxy.  Among his students is another famous historian of the Church, Jaroslav Pelikan, who joined the OCA in 1998.  Unfortunately, all of Florovsky's books are out of print except for a four-hundred page biography about him published by St. Vladimir's Seminary Press. <br /> <br />The first section of the book deals with the Church's proclamation of God's revelation to man, the Gospel, in the Holy Scriptures and the \\"catholic\\" nature of the Church itself.  The Church is labeled \\"catholic\\" because it possesses within itself a distinct universality and applies to all mankind.  The Scripture needs to be proclaimed as God's Word revealed to man through that ages: first to the ancient Hebrew tribes in the form of the Old Testament and to the entire world through the New.  The Bible should not be treated as a \\"history\\" book as such, nor is it a manual on the natural sciences, as many \\"fundamentalists\\" of various sects today uphold.  Florovsky also addresses the formulation of Creeds and how their authority acts in a binding manner on the Church and its component believers.  The Creeds, explains Florovsky, were written to express in so many words what the Church as always believed when faced with ecclesial and doctrinal controversies.  In another section, Florovsky focuses on the precise task of the Church as the \\"Body of Christ\\" in the world.  It initiates its members and confirms their service allegiance through signs of God's grace: the \\"sacraments\\" (actually a Latin word referring to a Roman military oath), or as they are known in Eastern tradition, the Holy Mysteries.  Although all are equal in Christ, the outward Church is structured in a hierarchical manner to reflect Christ's ordination of the Apostles to ministry.  Florovsky also addresses the role of the Church in a secular society.  In various circles throughout the ages, some have advocated a complete withdraw from the world while others have pushed for an active Christian takeover of secular institutions.  The dilemma of the Church in the world has \\"no historical resolution,\\" Florovsky points out, because although Christ's \\"Kingdom is not of this world,\\" it is a universal Church which can accommodate those not living withdrawn, ascetic lives like those in monasteries.  An especially interesting section in the book examines the authoritative role of Tradition in the early Church.  While Tradition has been largely abolished in Protestant churches and distorted in the Roman Catholic Church, it has retained its authority for the Orthodox.  The Church's doctrines were established by appeal to the \\"mind of the Fathers\\" and to the universal consent of the Church-guided by the Holy Spirit.  The canon of books affirmed as authoritative was decided by men over a period of three hundred years.  Needless to say, the Bible in its form today was established hundreds of years beyond the living memory of Jesus and the early apostolic age.  This means that the Bible is the cornerstone of Tradition but not in itself absolutely infallible regarding matters of faith unless it is interpreted within the Church.  In connection with the controversy over Scriptural authority, Florovsky moves on to overview the importance of Ecumenical Council in the Church's history.  Most of Western Christendom basically affirms the statements handed down from the first four councils (Nicea, Constantinople, Ephesus and Chalcedon) but the authority of the later three (of the seven) are often held up to debate.  Florovsky points out how the Councils were not premeditated, nor were they a regular occurrence in Church history.  They congregated in reaction to specific controversies and issued formal statements of faith, the Creeds.  Not all councils were wholly authoritative: some only addressed local Church issues and some were null and void (like the \\"robber synod\\" of 450) simply because the Church did not accept the results.  Florovsky's last chapter reviews the teachings of St. Gregory Palamas and shows how his teachings re-affirmed the traditions of earlier Orthodox Fathers like St. Athanasius and St. Cyril of Alexandria.  Palamas' works and theological premises are largely rejected by the west.  Palamas' own controversy during 14th century Byzantium was against monks and politicians who were sympathetic to the Latin West's growing tradition of Scholasticism which had deviated from true Orthodoxy several centuries before.  Florovsky concludes by noting Palamas' relevance to the soul of the Orthodox Church.	2004-12-01
US	35854103	R155V87OVHFN41	0802808743	466194467	Donoso Cortes: Cassandra of the Age	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An Appropriately Titled Book.	\\"An apocalyptic vision that has become a good diagnosis of our own time.\\" (cover blurb) <br /> <br />Cassandra was a legendary prophetess from ancient Greek fable cursed by the gods to utter true and unerring prophecy that was never listened to or taken into serious account.  Such a predicament aptly describes the subject of this very short intellectual biography, Juan Donoso Cortes.  The author, R. A. Herrera, is a professor of philosophy at Seton Hall University and an authority on Spanish themes in literature.  Herrera sheds some light onto this obscure 19th century Spanish ultra-conservative and counter-revolutionary intellectual.   <br /> <br />Donoso Cortes was a Spaniard of noble birth who studied at Salamanca at a very young age before his subsequent career as a journalist, diplomat and court-adviser.  In his youth he imbibed ideas from the radical French revolutionaries and romantics who were very popular amongst Europe's educated elite.  Later on, however, Donoso began to espouse ideas contrary to his youthful liberal inclinations.  Donoso's later literary influences were Scripture, Roman Catholic dogma and, in particular, the works of St. Augustine such as _The City of God_.  Perhaps Donoso took Augustine's allegory of a \\"Kingdom of Man\\" contending with the \\"Kingdom of God\\" too literally, as Herrera notes.  Donoso became a very devout Catholic in his later years, in some respects resembling a Saint.  He noted the various trends that he saw taking hold of European civilization and what has become its almost totally irreversible trend toward liberalism and socialism in the political sphere equaled by deism, agnosticism and atheism in the religious sphere.  What particularly irked Donoso, as Herrera repeatedly underscores, was democracy's idolatrous worship of \\"freedom of speech\\" and of constant discussion and speculation upon ideas, postulates and theories that by their very nature cannot establish absolute truth-and often at best only serve to define the tyranny of the 51 percent.  Donoso argues for the authority of the Church to establish and identify without dispute certain dogmas about life and the nature of reality and put them beyond human discussion.  He is also in favor of a strong absolute monarchial government that can protect the Church and the rest of the nation from subversive influences.  The main vehicle of subversion is of course the press and its army of propagandist editors and journalists.  Many of the radical, anti-Christian social changes have been whipped up by demagogues and rabble rousers inflaming the ignorant masses against properly established authority for the political ends of the demagogues (and needless to say, of those funding them).  Donoso believes that a strong dictatorial government is necessary to put people in their place and preserve tradition and order in society.  This puts him at the polar opposite of the entire liberal-democratic bourgeoisie ideology with its emphasis on abstract \\"rights\\" and constitutional government.  In addition to standard political liberalism, Donoso also hated socialism and its belief in the inherent good of man and the possibility of a perfect and just society as the antithesis of traditional Christianity.  Donoso held no positive beliefs in regarding human nature.  Man was fundamentally evil and disillusioned about his own innate abilities.  People are obviously not equal.  If it was not for the Church, civilization would not have developed to the richness that it did in Europe because the Church made definite statements about the very things that man cannot know through sovereign rationality and reason.  Rationalism and reason could only end the way they did in the later 1900s: in the affirmation of the absurd as the only reasonable way to interpret a cosmos devoid of a higher power that imposes a transcendent order and principles through human and other physical agencies.  Furthermore, Donoso advocates the Catholic practice of decoration Churches with elaborate gold and precious stones because it allows fallen man, bound to physical realities in the world, relate to what is above and beyond himself.  As Herrera carefully points out, Donoso only drudgingly gave man's capacity for goodness and generosity as much credit as Catholic dogma mandated.  Donoso took many other reactionary positions as well.  He regarded war as a sinful activity, but sinful inasmuch as man himself is sinful.  War is a human necessity and has been used for positive purposes such as defending the innocent and as catalyst for innovation and cultural advancements.  He also defended the traditional patriarchal family structure and argued against the feminist ideas prevalent and on the spread) during the1800s.  Donoso's _magnum opus_ was an extensive work on what has been dubbed \\"political theology:\\" _Catholicism, Liberalism and Socialism_.  In this book Donoso explains how radical anti-Christian politics and ideologies are heretical, demonic and satanic deviations of the Christian faith.  Except for occasional short-lived dictatorships and reactionary movements that can keep the spirits of liberalism and socialism at bay, the entire world is headed to a reign of the Antichrist.  This is the \\"Man of Sin\\" and the \\"Mystery of Iniquity\\" that St. Paul warned of in his epistles and \\"the Beast\\" of St. John's vision in the Apocalypse.  Of course, the Antichrist and his worldly hosts will be ultimately defeated by the return of Christ and the Church will emerge redeemed and triumphant, with the universe restored by Divine, transcendent intervention that silences human whining and carryings-on forever.  While Donoso recognized the unique role of tsarist Russia as Europe's main force of conservatism, he also believed correctly that Russia would be the first nation to fall to the onslaught of socialist revolutionaries and terrorists and the future bane of Europe.   <br /> <br />Such apocalyptic belief is not uncommon today and takes many varieties and forms.  Some speculate that Donoso's mind was afflicted by a case of syphilis or repressed homosexuality (as per Freudian analysis).  However, I recommend this title to Christians who are interested in politics and how they relate to theology.  Are Donoso's ideas taken seriously today?  Only in groups in individuals who are far outside of the political/religious mainstream, subject to outright ridicule and derision by the vast majority of today's intelligentsia.   <br />	2004-11-28
US	35854103	R2N7UAUB0LFL2O	0911165444	666390057	The Orthodox Church and The Orthodox Way Reviewed: A Traditionalist Critique of Two Popular Introductions to Eastern Orthodox Christianity	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Old-Calendarist Critique of Bishop Ware's Theology.	_The Orthodox Church and the Orthodox Way Reviewed_ by Hieromonk Patapios is a critique from the ultra-conservative True Orthodox Church of Greece of two popular books on Orthodox Christianity by Bishop Kallistos (Timothy) Ware.  The pamphlet consists of two in depth reviews scrutinizing Ware's books and is published by the Center for Traditionalist Orthodox Studies, which disseminates a number of texts on theological issues relating to controversies within the Orthodox Church.  Much of their publications are polemics against the ecumenical movement and the adoption of the Gregorian (Western) calendar by the Patriarch of Constantinople and the Church of Greece under the Archbishop of Athens.  They view the ecumenical movement as a syncretistic heresy that dilutes the identity of the traditional Orthodox Church.  Ware is involved in ecumenical dialogues, and Patapios goes to great lengths to show how Ware's more liberal theology is somewhat divergent from traditional Orthodoxy.  Patapios takes issue with Ware's methodology and theological positions in _The Orthodox Church_ and compares an early edition of Ware's book from the 1960s and the edited version published in 1993.  Some of Ware's \\"flaws\\" is that he does not elevate Orthodoxy as absolute truth in his work, taking a more relative theological stance that stands at odds with Old Calendarist ecclesial positions.  However, Patapios concludes that Ware's _Orthodox Church_ is the best available introduction to Orthodox Church history available and accessible to a wide audience and that no traditionalist scholar has produced a work in English of equal depth.   <br /> <br />The second review examines Ware's _The Orthodox Way_, a popular tract on Orthodox mysticism.  Patapios disapproves of Ware's citations of non-Orthodox sources (like Thomas Merton and William Blake), early ecclesial writers who were not elevated to the status of Church Fathers (like Origen who was posthumously condemned in the sixth century), modernOrthodox authors whose writings have been recently condemned (Fr. Sergius Bulgakov) and Orthodox authors involved in the ecumenical movement (Fr. Dimitru Staniloae).  Furthermore, Patapios takes Ware to task on the fact that he maintains the notion (from Origen and Gregory of Nyssa) of a universal redemption-even of Satan and that God's love even extends to souls suffering in Hell.  Another issue in _The Orthodox Way_ is Ware's theology which weaves around the \\"impassibility\\" of God as defined by the Fathers of the Church.  Patapios asks the rhetorical question of whether or not one is qualified to go outside the theological parameters established unanimously by the _consensus partum_ which defines Orthodox doctrines, dogmas, theological study and inquiry.  Ware also apparently holds to a somewhat slanted view of Christ maintaining that the Lord's human nature was too close to that of fallen man and not God incarnate.  It does not appear that Christ suffered despair before the Cross in a sinful manner or that the Lord was tortured in Hell in addition to the suffering at the Cross as some Protestant theologians have maintained.  Patapios points out the shortcomings, not to mention theological complexity, of these two issues.  I do not know of how much value this book would be to one who has not already read Ware's books critiqued here and who is unfamiliar with Old Calendarist literature and how it differs from canonical (i.e., in communion with the Patriarch of Constantinople) Orthodox Churches. <br />	2004-11-23
US	35854103	RQYZWGOH53N0D	0965638308	931421326	The Real American Dilemma: Race, Immigration, and the Future of America	Books	5	19	23	N	N	A Look at Some Disturbing Demographic Trends.	_The Real American Dilemma_ is a collection of speeches and articles compiled by the editor of _American Renaissance_ magazine, Jared Taylor.  This book is very controversial material (look at the negative reviews below) because the contributors buck against politically correct notions of \\"multiculturalism,\\" \\"diversity\\" and \\"racial equality.\\"  The contributors come from a variety of academic backgrounds, mostly in the hard sciences.  Interestingly enough, one contributor, Michael Levin, is a Jewish philosophy professor from New York who has gotten into trouble for his views on racial issues, including his incendiary book _Why Race Matters_.  Another contributor, Fr. James Thornton, is a Greek Orthodox priest under an Old Calendarist (True Orthodox Church of Greece) jurisdiction and has several books published by the Center for Traditionalist Orthodox Studies.  Several important and intentionally disregarded (if not out-rightly slandered) issues regarding race pop up in this brief anthology: the status of Western/Christian culture and civilization, different racial characteristics that separate whites, blacks and Asians, America's disturbingly rapid browning and demographic change that favors blacks and Hispanics, \\"white flight\\" from many of America's major cities into the suburbs, \\"thought control\\" amongst the ultra-left academia against dissident views on race, and the possibility of separatist ethnic groups dividing America into different racially homogenous states.  The most noteworthy feature in my opinion comes from Fr. Thornton's essay where he cites the Christian affiliation of many prominent scholars who argued against racial equality such as Arthur de Gobineau.  Thornton notes how traditional Christianity (not the modern diluted pseudo-Marxist \\"social gospel\\" Christianity) viewed society as a tiered, hierarchical setup that reflected the rule of God over Heaven.  This is an excellent book on racial relations (or the lack thereof) in spite of some of its flaws.  It is perhaps a little too Eurocentric in places because it does deny the achievements of non-white, non-Christian cultures such as medieval Islam and ancient China and India.	2004-11-23
US	35854103	R1NMCM3XXDW403	0913836583	566465397	The Orthodox Way	Books	5	14	18	N	N	A Great Introduction to Eastern Orthodox Mysticism.	_The Orthodox Way_ by Bishop Timothy Ware is a brief but excellent introduction to Eastern Orthodox mysticism and doctrines.  A monk recommended this book to me as a supplement to Ware's other notable introduction to Orthodoxy, _The Orthodox Church_.  While _The Orthodox Church_ is an objective historical study written when Ware first converted to the Church, _The Orthodox Way_ deals with more personal theological experience.  It is structured into six chapters each dealing with a different aspect of God: Mystery, Trinity, Creator, Man, Spirit, Prayer and Eternity.  The chapter on \\"Mystery\\" deals with the revelatory character of man's relationship with God and the ultimate bridge that separates the creation from the creator.  Men, as created beings, cannot partake or understand the Essence of God but can partake of divine, uncreated energies.  God has often been described by mystics as \\"divine darkness\\" or \\"cloud of unknowing.\\"  \\"Trinity\\" focuses on the Father, the Son or Logos and the Holy Spirit as the three persons of God.  They are each distinct from one another yet share the same divine essence.  The chapter on \\"Creator\\" describes God as being in all things-not pantheism but panentheism.  God is in all things yet remains beyond all created things as well.  The \\"God as Man\\" chapter focuses on Jesus Christ as Incarnate God.  Ware contends that Christ not only died for our sins but also suffered along with humanity, not just in place of it.  \\"God as Spirit\\" relates the Church's doctrines and experiences of the Holy Spirit as the third person of the Trinity.  The Spirit has been symbolized by a dove and flames of fire, and is described in the Bible as the \\"Breath\\" of God, because of His mysterious and intangible nature.  Ware notes from example from the Gospel, the Holy Spirit revealed Jesus Christ as God, while at the same time Christ's ministry heralded the coming of the Spirit to divinely guide humanity through the Church at Pentecost.  Ware elaborates further on the mystical union between humanity and Divinity in \\"God as Prayer.\\"  Ware mentions the Hesychast tradition of silent, continuous prayers as well as the practice of spiritual leadership by \\"God-bearing elders\\" (starets) and \\"Fools for Christ.\\"  The former guide individuals by various gifts of Divine grace, while the latter forsake all worldly comforts and possessions as a radical example of the Gospel to the faithful.  Ware's concluding chapter on \\"God as Eternity\\" explains how souls in Heaven will have a dynamic relationship, one that becomes ever closer to God throughout eternity.  This may sound strange but it is entirely possible because God is by definition eternal and infinite and therefore no created entity can ever totally partake of God's divine essence itself. <br /> <br />Ware's book is not totally without controversy.  For one, it draws on a lengthy number of un-Orthodox sources to prove his points (like Thomas Merton, William Blake, etc.) and supplement his dialogue, in addition to ecclesial authors whose validity have been questioned like Origen.  Probably the most controversial section is where Ware discusses the nature of Satan and the fallen angels before the physical earth was created.  Is it possible that Satan will be redeemed in a universal forgiveness (as was originally maintained by Origen and Gregory of Nyssa)?  Does Satan serve an ulterior purpose in God's plan that is unknown to humans?  According to Ware, it is possible that Satan will be redeemed (although of course not definite) because God's love is universal and unconditional.  The traditional Orthodox opinion is that Satan is condemned to the lake of fire in hell at the last judgment as related in the Apocalypse.  Ware also takes a positive view of Hell.  Hell is not necessarily a state of total abandonment of soul by God (as has often been articulated in various theological traditions) but is a sort of \\"fire of divine love.\\"  I.e., Hell is God's love experienced in a negative way but nevertheless God's love.   <br /> <br />I recommend this book as an introduction to themes in Orthodox mysticism and doctrine.  There are other titles that can be recommended that explore these topics in more precise detail: _The Mystical Theology of the Eastern Church_ (Vladimir Lossky) and the works of Pseudo-Dionysius.   <br />	2004-11-22
US	35854103	R2IBPVLZ6IO8F3	1401016448	226783697	The Council of Chalcedon Re-Examined	Books	4	23	25	N	N	A "Monophysite" Agenda?	_The Council of Chalcedon Re-Examined_ by Father V. C. Samuel is a lengthy dissertation dealing with the political, historical and theological conflicts behind the ecumenical council at Chalcedon (near Constantinople in Asia Minor) in AD 451. <br /> <br />Fr. Samuel, a priest in the Indian Orthodox Church, has studied extensively in the Syriac language and Christian theology since his youth in India.  He brings a frequently disregarded perspective into this obscure theological-political struggle of the fifth century Byzantine Empire.  From 451 onwards there has been a continual schism, or broken communion, between the Orthodox Church, the later pro-Chalcedonian churches (Roman Catholic and Protestant) and the so called non-Chalcedonian, Oriental Orthodox, or \\"monophysite\\" Church.  The non-Chalcedonian church has distinguished and isolated itself from the rest of Christendom because of this schism and continues to exist today preserving a very ancient and even \\"primitive\\" form of Christianity in Egypt, Armenia, Syria, India, Ethiopia and Eritrea.  I recommend _The Council of Chalcedon_ to those interested in church history because it covers such a wide variety of information in an objective manner from a very different theological tradition than most Christian authors.   <br /> <br />Samuel's book is basically about the events before and after the council of Chalcedon in 451.  Chalcedon is sometimes referred to as the \\"Fourth Ecumenical Council\\" by Orthodox and Roman Catholic historians, although was not universally acknowledged by ancient Christendom.  Samuel familiarizes the reader with the subject by over viewing councils (in 431, 449 and 450) where the dominant doctrinal issue at stake was a definition of exactly who Christ was in extremely technical Greek theological terms.  This structuring does the reader a service because it provides a backdrop to the issues Samuel discusses during 451 and afterwards.  During 431, a majority of bishops decided to adopt the writings and anathemas (curses) of Cyril of Alexandria (the largest city in Egypt) as official doctrine.  The next generation of bishops in Alexandria, led by Cyril's successor Dioscorus, stringently supported Cyril's works.  Samuel is an adherent of the Alexandrian position and therefore a modern supporter of the deposed Egyptian patriarch Dioscorus.  One of the strong points of Samuel's book, in my opinion, is he goes into a lengthy analysis of the wrangling and power struggles of the different sides and how Dioscorus was condemned. <br /> <br />_The Council of Chalcedon_ covers which groups had a political stake in the outcomes of Chalcedon.  To the vast majority of Egyptians, Chalcedon was the \\"council of schism.\\"  In contrast, Chalcedon was a bastion of Christian Orthodoxy for the prelates loyal to the Byzantine Empire and its government and the pope of Rome in the west.  The pro-Roman and pro-empire parties considered _The Tome of Leo_ as the definitive statement of Christology which supplemented and complemented Cyril's writings.  Samuel does an excellent job in this area of analysis because he differentiates between actual theology and what were in fact worldly power struggles between separatist and nationalist elements in the empire and those interested in maintaining centralized church authority in Rome and Constantinople.   <br /> <br />Samuel also focuses on the outcome of Chalcedon and does not cover up the often violent and criminal conflicts that raged in the Byzantine Empire.  The separate non-Chalcedon church was viewed as a threat by the imperial government to its authority which was bound up with pro-Chalcedonian Orthodoxy.  Violence broke out in places, involving persecutions of dissident monks and prelates.  Factionalists from both sides even assassinated and murdered bishops.   <br /> <br />In later centuries, debate continued between the non-Chalcedonian church and the Orthodox adherents of Chalcedon.  Samuel addresses the question of whether ornot the non-Chalcedonians were rightfully deserving of the label \\"monophysite\\" which has had a heretical and therefore negative connotation in Western Christendom.  Samuel does an excellent job of showing how the theologians of the non-Chalcedon church in later centuries maintained inherently Orthodox Christian beliefs.  He argues to the modern reader how the label \\"monophysite\\" is a misnomer and something of an undeserved slander.  The greatest theologians of the non-Chalcedonians, such as Severus of Antioch, Timothy Aelurus and Philoxenos of Mabbogh, went to great lengths to maintain their belief in the humanity of Christ.  The non-Chalcedonian Church also anathematized teachings as heresies that were associated with \\"monophysitism\\" by the Orthodox Church.  Among the teachings repudiated were Eutychianism, the belief that Christ was not consubstantial with humanity; the belief that Christ had only one \\"property\\" in his being, and Julianism, the belief that Christ's humanity was of some incorruptible nature.   <br /> <br />Samuel also lists several extremely technical Greek terms became bones of contention because their precise meanings and usage in previous documents were not agreed upon by the debating parties: ousia \\"essence,\\" hypostasis \\"that which exists in itself\\", physis \\"nature\\", prosopon \\"person\\" and hyparxis \\"existence\\".  This section of the book greatly helps the reader understand the precise issues that were up for debate and how they were understood differently by the opposing sides. <br /> <br />It appears that the schism heralded by Chalcedon and imperial and papal political and theological agendas was a terrible mistake and both sides were in fact \\"Orthodox\\" in their Christology.  Both sides condemned the same views as heretical and both were careful to uphold the true humanity of Christ, as well as his divinity.  This is the conclusion that Samuel reaches in his book.  His work is of such excellent quality because he defends his thesis so well.  Chalcedon was essentially a regional power struggle between different factions masked by what was basically a haggle over words.  These are the reasons why The Council of Chalcedon Re-Examined is a recommended book for readers interested in theology and the history of religion.  The book does have a significant fault in because it does not go into enough detail as to what the specific accusations against Dioscorus were.  It also seems to attack Chalcedonian Orthodoxy as inherently dangerous to Christendom and the Church at large.  Otherwise, Samuel's book is an excellent, objectively written text.	2004-11-08
US	35854103	R1UGQVL6IVYNMV	1419180169	672709412	The Refutation Of All Heresies, Book 1	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Book 1: A Brief Summary of Ancient Greek Philosophy.	\\"...therefore, we shall declare who first, among the Greeks, pointed out (the principles of) natural philosophy.  For from these especially have they furtively taken their views who have first propounded these heresies...\\" (Hippolytus, _The Refutation of All Heresies_ 1:1) <br /> <br />The First Book of St. Hippolytus' _The Refutation of All Heresies_ is written with the intent of giving a very brief and succinct overview of various philosophical schools from ancient Greece (and elsewhere) that have influenced the teachings of heretics against the Orthodox Christian faith.  I find it interesting that Kessinger (God bless them!) has decided to offer each book of this third century theological polemics separately in English translation.  There are several books of this work that are missing and are no longer extant. <br /> <br />Hippolytus begins with an examination of the Greek pre-Socratic \\"natural philosophers\\" who used empirical reason to explain the nature and workings of the cosmos.  Although the speculations of these philosophers sound ridiculous because they have all been proven wrong by modern science, their ideas remained a strong force during Hippolytus' time.  Among the thinkers Hippolytus skims over, he mentions Pythagoras and this philosopher's mystical, proto-monastic followers, along with Heraclitus and his philosophy of eternal flux and the obscure doctrine of the \\"logos\\" in the universe.  Hippolytus moves on to look at the ideas of Socrates, Plato and Aristotle and what they believe about the creation of the world and man and his soul.  The text discusses how Plato's ideas have been taken to mean different things to different people.  Some have argued that Plato was essentially a polytheist while others maintain that Plato was one of the founders of monotheistic theology.  Hippolytus overviews Aristotle's thought and proceeds to summarize the Stoics, Epicurus, and the Academics who followed in Plato and Aristotle's footsteps.  Interestingly enough, Hippolytus also mentions the Brahmins (\\"Brachmans\\") of India although it is clear that he possesses only a very cursory knowledge of Hindu philosophy.  The Druids of northern Europe are also briefly mentioned, to whom Hippolytus connects with Pythagoras.  He concludes with the poet Hesiod who mentioned a flood that inundated the entire earth in his poems chronicling popular Greek myths.  As Hippolytus notes, without this background of pre-Christian and philosophy, heretical sects and occultists would have a hard time developing a framework for their ideas. <br />	2004-10-24
US	35854103	R194RYV4R06RXK	0686261453	407240006	Antichrist	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Third Century Christian Teachings on the Antichrist.	\\"For he sees, when in the isle Patmos, a revelation of awful mysteries, which he recounts freely, and makes known to others\\" (Hippolytus, _On Christ and Antichrist_). <br /> <br />\\"Then, if anyone says to you, `Look, there is the Christ!' or \\"There!' do not believe it.  For false christs and false prophets will rise and show great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect.  See, I have told you so beforehand.  Therefore if they say to you, `Look, He is in the desert!' do not go out; or `Look, He is in the inner rooms!\\" do not believe it.  For as lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be\\" (Matt. 24:23-27). <br /> <br />_On Christ and Antichrist_ by Saint Hippolytus, a third century Father, is an enlightening tract concerning biblical prophecy in the Old and New Testaments and the identity of the sprit of apostasy and the identity of the Antichrist.  It is addressed as a letter to a fellow Christian Theophilus and its purpose is to shed light on what the Scriptures mystically teach about the Second Coming of Christ.  The content of the text draws largely from St. John's Apocalypse, the visions of Daniel, assorted prophecies in the Old Testament, several of the Apostle Paul's warnings and exhortations and from the parables of the Savior Himself.  Hippolytus first draws comparisons between Christ and Antichrist.  The devil, in order to deceive the world, needs to have a representative on earth who will mimic Christ as closely as possible.  The essential difference is that the Antichrist will come in his own name as king and lord to set up a worldly kingdom, while Christ's kingdom is \\"not of this world.\\"  The reign of the Antichrist will of course be an absolute falsehood and illusion because although he is able to harass the Church for a number of years, Christ already reigns in heaven over all and will return to create a new heaven and new earth and dethrone the Antichrist and cast Satan into thelake of fire.  The Antichrist will appear to suffer a mortal wound and miraculously recover, in mockery of the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ.  Antichrist will also be \\"like a lamb\\" bringing peace, while also \\"like a lion\\" bringing war and desolation.  The body of Christ was a temple on this earth where God was truly glorified, while the Antichrist will rebuild the literal temple in Jerusalem.  Christ came performing signs and a wonders by the power of the Holy Spirit and God's will while the Antichrist will perform a spectacular magic show by the power of Satan, preceded by the False Prophet.  During the time period of Antichrist's reign, he will be opposed by the prophets Elias (Elijah) and Enoch who will contradict Satan and witness for the Church.  At the end of a certain period the two prophets will be slain by the Antichrist and after three days publicly come back to life and ascend to heaven.  The kingdom of Satan, prefigured by Babylon, the Roman Empire and apostate Israel, will fall at the Second Coming of Christ.  Hippolytus exhorts the faithful to remain steadfast to the hope of Christ's deliverance from the troubles the Church is experiencing and will experience in the future.	2004-10-20
US	35854103	R3NYQMVZI8WCGW	0937694568	818828755	Zionist Plan for the Middle East (Special Document, No 1)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	The Israeli Destruction of the Arab World?	\\"The Zionist Plan for the Middle East\\" is a strange pamphlet posted online by the Association of Arab-American University Graduates.  It is an excerpt from an article, \\"A Strategy for Israel in the Nineteen Eighties,\\" written by one Oded Yinon that appeared in the Word Zionist Organization's journal, _Kivunim_.  The translator is none other than Israel Shahak, a Jewish leftist in Israel who is conversely the author of several books popular amongst right-wingers because of their supposed \\"anti-Semitic\\" content.  The document is somewhat dated as it was written in the early 1980s but it is interesting how its predicted destruction and occupation of Iraq has come true.  Everyone involved with this document and its dissemination of course all possess their intensely loaded political agendas.  The article outlines the situation in the Middle East and how the internal ethnic conflicts raging in the Arab world work to benefit Israel.  Israel seeks hegemony over the Middle East in order to secure its borders and to protect its geopolitical interests.  Weak, unstable neighbors will not pose a threat to Israel and therefore it is a wise prerogative for Israel to destabilize surrounding governments and to encourage local separatist groups against national governments.  Especially to be feared are nationalist Arab regimes and leaders who seek to unite Arabs toward a single political goal.  Yinon summarizes the basic weaknesses of the various countries composing the surrounding Arab and Muslim world.  Egypt, by far the largest, has experienced economic stagnation and tensions between Muslims and Coptic Christians in Upper Egypt.  Syria and Lebanon have ethnic issues involving minority Shiite Muslims at odds with ruling Sunni Muslims, along with the region's scattered Christians.  Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States are wealthy but their governments are in a precarious position because they are almost totally dependent on oil markets for their income.  The state that gives Israel the most concern is Iraq and therefore Yinon argues that a wise policy to follow involves the destruction the Iraq's current government and a balkanization between the Sunni Arab ruling elite, ethnic Kurds in the north and the disenfranchised majority Shiite Muslims in the south around the Tigris and Euphrates river deltas.  This is a very interesting subject, worthy of close attention because of the events unfolding in America's \\"war on terror\\" [eyebrows should pop up immediately because one cannot \\"declare war on a noun,\\" as I have seen pointed out elsewhere], the political clout of pro-Zionist lobbyists, and America's close military relationship with Israel.  For more information on this subject I recommend Shahak's other books on Israel's machinations: _Jewish History, Jewish Religion_, _Open Secrets: Israeli Nuclear and Foreign Policies_ and _Jewish Fundamentalism in Israel_.he most concern is Iraq and therefore Yinon argues that a wise policy to follow involves the destruction the Iraq's current government and a balkanization between the Sunni Arab ruling elite, ethnic Kurds in the north and the disenfranchised majority Shiite Muslims in the south around the Tigris and Euphrates river deltas.  This is a very interesting subject, worthy of close attention because of the events unfolding in America's \\"war on terror\\" [eyebrows should pop up immediately because one cannot \\"declare war on a noun,\\" as I have seen pointed out elsewhere], the political clout of pro-Zionist lobbyists, and America's close military relationship with Israel.  For more information on this subject I recommend Shahak's other books on Israel's machinations: _Jewish History, Jewish Religion_, _Open Secrets: Israeli Nuclear and Foreign Policies_ and _Jewish Fundamentalism in Israel_.	2004-10-20
US	35854103	R38R34J2EW78P9	089981042X	51034769	The Life of St. Anthony the Great	Books	5	10	10	N	N	father of all monks.	\\"For by this time there are monasteries among you, and the name of monk receives public recognition...Now since you asked me to give an account of the blessed Anthony's way of life...I very readily accepted your behest, for to me also the bare recollection of Anthony is a great accession of help\\" (Athanasius, _Vita Antonii_).<br /><br />\\"Wherefore children, let us not faint nor deem that the time is long, or that we are doing something great, `for the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed to us.'  Nor let us think, as we look at the world, that we have renounced anything of much consequence, for the whole earth is very small compared with all of the heaven\\" (ibid.).<br /><br />\\"It is good to consider the word of the Apostle, `I die daily.'  For if we too live as though dying daily, we shall not sin....As we rise by day we should think that we shall not abide till evening; and again, when about to lie down to sleep, we should think that we shall not rise up.  For our life is naturally uncertain, and Providence allots it to us daily.....But, as though under the daily expectation of death, we shall be without wealth, as shall forgive all things to all men, nor shall we retain at all the desire of women or of any other foul pleasure.  Be we shall turn from it as past and gone, ever striving and forward to the day of Judgment.  For the greater dread and danger of torment ever destroys the ease of pleasure, and sets up the soul if it is like to fall\\" (ibid.).<br /><br />Saint Athanasius' _Life of Anthony_ (_Vita Antonii_) is a remarkable account of the father of desert monasticism, revered as a Saint in the Orthodox, non-Chalcedonian and Roman Catholic churches.  It is written as a letter to Athanasius' fellow bishops and the faithful elsewhere around the world.  This text definitely bears Athanasius' stamp, especially when he relates how Anthony anathematized the teachings of the heretical Arians, a controversy which Athanasius had been immersed in many years when he wrote the _Vita_.  Athanasius' involvement as the chief defender of Orthodoxy as the archbishop of Egypt's capital city Alexandria caused Athanasius' exile and flight from imperial authorities on repeated occasions.  Anthony is also depicted in several discussions with pagan philosophers defending the Christian faith against its philosophic critics.<br /><br />St. Anthony the Great is considered to be the \\"father of all monks\\" and the early monastic movement he represented in Egypt spread to all corners of the Christian world in late antiquity.  I have read of this writing in a number of books on monasticism, Christian history and theology and wanted to read it myself in an English translation.  _Vita_ recounts how Anthony, a somewhat well to do Egyptian, renounced the world, sold his possessions, and went to live in isolation in the barren desert of Egypt's Thebaid.  He lived by himself much of the time but in due course attracted a number of fellow monks and hermits as followers.  Much of this work describes Anthony's teachings about the power of Satan and the fallen angels.  While engaged in prayer and ascetic discipline in the desert, the devil appeared to Anthony in a variety of forms to lead him from the Way: a beautiful woman, an old man, wild beasts, an angel of light and monks and hermits.  Interestingly enough, Satan appears disguised as very holy men and women who expound deceits and false teachings.  Athanasius, through the voice of Anthony, explains also how Satan works through the powers of the occult, witchcraft and in particular, false prophecy.  Even the Scriptures themselves are taught by the devil out of context, as Satan tempted Christ by quoting the Psalms during the Lord's forty day fast in the desert.  The devil uses false prophecies which purport to write history before it happens in such a way as to lead the faithful astray (like today's popular dispensationalist theologians, Israel's \\"Amen Corner\\" and the _Left Behind_ series).  Anthony explains how mystical powers are not necessarily a sign of godliness and have no bearing on whether or not an individual is living a holy life.  Anthony himself performed many miracles and experienced many visions, but he attributed them to God alone.  Anthony considered himself merely a \\"vessel of the Holy Sprit.\\"  However, notes Anthony is his discourses addressed to faithful, the powers of demons is ultimately illusory and are the fallen angels are totally helpless before the name of the Savior and the sign of the Cross.  Anthony and Athanasius' message is one of faith in the Lord in the face demons worldly travails, temptations and persecutions in this world which is still relevant to believers today.	2004-10-19
US	35854103	R2Q567CLXYKEN3	0913836761	799488547	On the Holy Icons	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Veneration of Icons in Eastern Orthodoxy.	_On the Holy Icons_ by St. Theodore the Studite is an interesting, if extremely dense, treatise defending the Eastern Orthodox tradition of icon veneration.  Theodore was a monk from Constantinople who managed several monasteries in the Byzantine Empire during the infamous iconoclast controversy which raged in Byzantium during the eighth and ninth centuries.  This English translation (1981) from St. Vladimir's Seminary Press features an introduction by Catherine Roth where she outlines the issues behind the iconoclast controversy and the premises of Theodore's polemics from the side of Orthodoxy.  Roth succinctly notes how Theodore \\"elaborates on the relation of the image to the prototype.  The image belongs to the Aristotelian category of relative things, and so it directs the attention from itself to its prototype.  The image and the prototype different in essence, but share the same likeness and are called by the same name.  Insofar as the image is like its prototype, the prototype may be venerated in the image\\" (12).  This applies to the iconoclast case that the veneration of Orthodox believers to icons is a form of or equivalent to idolatry.  If an icon is venerated, Christ is still being worshiped.  The actual veneration paid toward the icon is not the same as worship offered to God but an honor and form of high respect to the One who is depicted thereon.  Theodore organizes his polemics into three sections.  The first section gives an apology for the Orthodox position on icons, defining what exactly is being done when an Orthodox believer venerates an icon.  It is similar to the same veneration paid to the sign of the cross, which was maintained by the iconoclasts.  Theodore also goes to extreme length in order to prove that the Incarnate Christ was \\"circumscribable\\" and thus having the quality to be depicted using physical artistic forms.  Christ was a man who lived and walked on earth, was seen by men, wore clothing, ate food and continued to do so even after His resurrection.  Therefore, the Incarnate Word was of circumscribable essence and can be pictured with legitimacy.  At the end of the first section, Theodore anathematizes as heretics those who deride and condemn the Orthodox veneration of icons.  Theodore's second section presents a hypothetical dialogue between a heretic (iconoclast) and an Orthodox on the Biblical and patristic theology behind the issue in question.  The third section goes on further to define, using specific examples from the Gospels, of Christ's ability to be circumscribed.  Throughout all of the treatises, Theodore also painstakingly differentiates between icon veneration and worship of God.  The honor given to the icon is honor given to Christ, and conversely, the dishonor shown toward icons is also a dishonor to Christ.  Theodore uses an interesting example of Jews desecrating an icon of Christ in imitation of the sufferings undergone by Christ during His trial and crucifixion.  Needless to say, the Mother of God and other saints are depicted in icons as well and veneration is shown to them.  Their images are also worthy of veneration because they have partaken in God's divine grace and have become \\"sons of God\\" in a figurative sense.  In all, I recommend _On the Holy Icons_ as a technical introduction to the topic for those interested in the general question of using art forms in Christian worship.	2004-10-14
US	35854103	R1WCIKIUXYWB5A	0140231994	550654648	The Early Church (The Penguin History of the Church) (v. 1)	Books	5	16	22	N	N	The Early Church: Neither Roman Catholic nor Protestant.	I have noticed that Henry Chadwick's _The Early Church_ has been offered on many different websites selling books associated with Eastern Orthodox Churches.  It appears to have a wide audience among the Orthodox Christians despite the fact that it was written by an Anglican scholar from Oxford and Cambridge.  Appropriately enough, its cover features an enamel of St. Paul in a none-too friendly dispute (notice the severe frowns and pointing fingers) with a pagan and Jewish philosopher.  It is the first volume of Penguin's expansive history of the Christian faith and churches from its origins as a small Jewish messianic sect until its trials and tribulations during the Cold War.  Chadwick's book covers roughly the first 800 years or so of the Church's history concluding with the iconoclast controversy in the Greek Church and the divergence between the Greek East and Latin West and a brief mention of the controversial filioque clause in the Creed.  _The Early Church_ begins by discussing the form, structure and worship of the apostolic and post-apostolic Church in its context of a continuing tradition from the ancient Hebrew liturgy and worship of Israel.  The Church was beset immediately in its first couple of generations by official Roman state persecution, conflicts with the empire's widespread Jewish communities, pagan philosophical critiques and competition from various sects such as the Gnostics, which claimed to be Christian but in fact were condemned by the Orthodox as heretical and corrupting the message of Christ.  Since the expanse of history is so wide and the geographic areas so vast (the entire Mediterranean basin, the Middle East, Northern Europe), not to mention the theological issues and controversies involved, Chadwick's work is somewhat cursory in places.  This does not, however, take away from this book's value as an introduction to Church history.  It is readily apparent where Orthodox readers would find Chadwick's book to be of value in spite of Chadwick's somewhat pro-Western bias (or at least what I personally detect to be a pro-Western bias).  The Church Chadwick describes is hierarchical, liturgical, and collegial, presided over by bishops assisted by presbyters (\\"priests\\").  The only \\"pope\\" that was acknowledged as having special authority was in the Latin speaking western regions of the Roman Empire while the Greek speaking eastern empire had the three major (and sometimes conflicting) sees of Alexandria, Antioch and Constantinople.  The Bible also was not the sole means of governing the Church as the canon of New Testament scriptures was not officially decided upon until the fourth century and not as widely read as it is today.  Art in Churches was very popular amongst the masses, especially icons in the Greek east.  The early Church was neither \\"Protestant\\" nor \\"Roman Catholic\\" in the sense that these two branches exist and define themselves according to the teachings of men, separated from Orthodox Christianity today.  I recommend Chadwick's book to anyone looking for an objective history of early Christianity, the form it took, its cantankerous relationship with the Roman and Byzantine state, its basic doctrines and teachings and the ecclesiastic, political and theological power struggles that shaped it during its early centuries.	2004-10-06
US	35854103	R2CUZ9C0XPHWYN	1885652054	91506237	Christianity: Lineaments of a Sacred Tradition	Books	5	46	48	N	N	Orthodox Christianity and Traditionalist Philosophy.	_Christianity: Lineaments of a Sacred Tradition_ by Philip Sherrard is an interesting perspective on various aspects of Christian theology and \\"Traditionalist\\" philosophy.  Sherrard was an Englishman who converted into the Greek Orthodox Church during the 1940s and died in 1995.  This book is Sherrard's final work in which he reflects on Christianity and relates his thoughts on various intellectual and philosophical challenges to Christianity from a variety of sources.  The book starts out with an introduction by Kallistos Ware, a British Bishop and Oxford graduate, who writes at length about Sherrard's career and their collaboration on translating monastic wisdom texts, the _Philokalia_ into English in a multivolume publication.  Sherrard is an adherent of the Traditionalist philosophy which states that all of the world's great religions share a common esoteric core (a view apparently endorsed by Ware).  As such, Sherrard's approach to Orthodoxy is rather different than most standard books on doctrine.  He makes little reference to the Bible or for that matter to many practices of the Church.  Sherrard generally argues his viewpoint from universal principles rather than theological specifics.  This makes his book a very engaging and challenging read, but in and of itself, _Christianity_ is a better introduction to Traditionalist philosophy than Orthodox theology.  This is also a book with which one does not have to agree with all of its points and claims in order to still be of value.  Sherrard begins his presentation by noting the dominant mechanistic and materialistic worldview of the modern era and juxtaposes it against traditional religious forms.  Traditionally, the universe was viewed as a creation and ordinance of God and with man as an integral part in God's creation.  Sherrard notes that a worldview divorcing God from His material creation provides the necessary setting for today's ecological crisis and secularized society.  Another issue of contemporary importance that Sherrard takes up is the relationship between Christianity and society at large.  Because Christianity is essentially a personal, initiatory faith, it lost much of its moral authority when it became the state religion of the Roman Empire.  Many of the most grievous issues (like heresy hunting crazes and schisms) in the Church were the fruit of imperial power politics rather than the Gospel of Christ.  Sherrard also addresses Christianity's claim to absolute and exclusive religious truth.  It would be best if the Orthodox Church did not make claims to absolute truth and allow for flexibility regarding the fundamental spiritual potency and validity of extra-Christian religious traditions.  Here is one point where Sherrard would stir up an amount of controversy but I am not going to go further into the issue here.  His chapter on the \\"Metaphysics of Logic\\" delves into detail against the concept of Godhead exposited in the writings of fellow Traditionalist Rene Guenon.  This is a dense but important chapter in understanding the nature of Divinity and how definitely attributes can be ascribed to God.  Sherrard notes that Christianity is dependent upon a \\"radical apophaticism\\" when it comes to describing God.  If God's Essence is so far beyond human comprehension, as Guenon maintained, then it cannot be defined by anything whatsoever.  Not even the concept of \\"Being\\" encompasses the Divine Essence to the extent that God can be defined as \\"Beyond-Being.\\"  Here Sherrard's \\"radical apophaticism\\" kicks in.  If God is so unknowable and incomprehensible, then He is even further Beyond-Being in the sense that absolute qualities (such as Love, Mercy, Life, Truth) can in fact be ascribed to the Divinity itself.  Sherrard continues in his analysis of the attacks upon Christianity by Georgios Gemistos Plethon of the late Byzantine Empire and Friedrich Nietzsche of nineteenth century Germany.  Both of these philosophers attempted to discredit Christianity by attackingthe non-universal and seeming repudiation of natural vitality and existence contained in the Christian tradition.  The issue of Jung's attacks on Christian theology is also covered.  Sherrard also includes a chapter about modern society's fear and uncertainty about death.  Death, of course, is not the end of individual human existence, but rather a continuation of the soul's journey into eternity.  Death becomes a scandal to the non-traditional, non-theistic mindset because it stands stubbornly against the possibility of infinite human achievement on the purely material plane.  Sherrard expands on his theme of how materialistic science robbed of any transcendent perspective is causing the current ecological crisis of pollution and the destruction of nature.  \\"Pantheism,\\" according to Sherrard, is not a heresy in the sense that it takes the creation as an emanation of the Divine Essence but when the creation itself is revered apart from the Divine Essence from whence it derives its own source of being.  When God is recognized as having a part in all created existence, then a sense of \\"pantheism\\" is not necessarily a negative epithet.  This further leads into a discussion of how God created the world \\"ex nihilo\\" (out of nothing) as has been explained by Christian apologists.  Since all of created existence, including time itself, is an emanation of the Divine Essence, then the world was not created \\"out of nothing\\" in the commonly understood sense.  If God acted as an external force upon something that was existentially nothing to give it form, shape and being into the present created order, this idea in fact leads to further denigration of the status of God's creation in man's eyes.  The idea that there was something, even if that \\"something\\" is defined as \\"nothing,\\" could have existed co-eternally with God is in fact in Sherrard's view a heresy \\"much more sinister then pantheism.\\"  Sherrard's final chapter wraps up his book by plugging in his personal interest in the practice of Hesychasm and the scholarship and translation of its mystical texts of which Sherrard has personally played an important role in spreading the _Philokalia_ to English speaking readers.  I recommend this book as a good overview of Sherrard's thought regarding the Christian tradition and philosophy and also because it will make the reader think and reconsider fundamental theological beliefs.	2004-09-19
US	35854103	R379J43UVJHIO6	0895554755	169270971	The Great Heresies	Books	5	46	47	N	N	The Great Heresies	_The Great Heresies_ by the notable Catholic historian Hillaire Belloc is an outstanding introduction on what constitutes a \\"heresy\\" and the threats they have posed to the unity of Christendom. Belloc introduces his subject by defining what a heresy is. A heresy is a worldview that affirms certain aspects of Catholicism (and \\"Catholicism\\" can be understood as \\"traditional Christianity\\" in its Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox forms) but denies certain absolutely crucial doctrines of the Catholic Christian faith. The cover features a portrait of John Calvin, one of Christendom's chief heresiarchs in a characteristically Mephistophelian light. Belloc examines five of the largest, broadest and most influential heresies that have confronted the Church: Arianism, Mohammedanism (Islam), Albigensianism, Protestantism and what Belloc terms the \\"Modern Attack\\" which may in fact be, or is the precursor to, the Spirit of Antichrist. Arianism arose during the power politics of the Roman Empire and was generally supported by the upper-class elements in the Roman Army and the Imperial governing bureaucracy. It was easier more appealing on a philosophic level because the preacher Arius exalted Jesus as the greatest creature of God yet denied the actual Divinity of Christ. Belloc speculates that varying strains of Arianism provided a catalyst for the Nestorian and Monophysite schisms in the Church during the 5th century in the context of anti-Imperial political causes among the Christians of the East. The Arian heresy eventually died out at the same time Islam threatened both Eastern and Western boundaries of Christian Europe. Islam began, according to Belloc, as a heretical doctrine preached to its originally pagan Arab audience rather than as a new religion in itself. Mohammed affirmed the Catholic attributes of a creator God, the Virgin Birth, the prophetic legacy of Jesus and the Last Judgement where Jesus would return to judge good and evil. However, Mohammed totally disavowed the Incarnation of Christ, the tradition of the Apostles and the Church's sacraments that Christ instituted. Islam found a ready audience in the Middle East disenchanted with Byzantine rule and nearly gobbled up both Western and Eastern Christendom by sheer fanaticism and military prowess had it not been for the Spanish re-conquest and the Crusades. Belloc notes the many strengths of Islamic society and (writing in 1938) predicts a resurgence of radical Islam again assaulting the West. Albigensianism was a movement popular in southern France among nobles who were disenchanted with the structure of the Catholic Church. The \\"Albigensies\\" were named after a region in France, and the heresy consisted of a radical anti-institutional attitude toward the Church. Basing their philosophy on ancient cosmologies imported from the East, these heretics abandoned marriage, the Church's sacraments and believed in the equality authority of women and men officially preaching the Gospel message. They were eventually destroyed in a French-Papal crusade that assured the development of a united Catholic France. The Protestant attack's most perilous fruits were the denial of a united, authoritative Church, the doctrine of predestination and the denial of free will and of course the idea that material wealth was a sign of God's blessing. Belloc calls Calvin's theology that of a \\"Moloch God\\" who predestines souls to heaven and hell indefinitely before linear time began. However, Calvin's tremendous historical influence has been shown by the uplifting of the traditional Catholic ban on usury and an increasing control of individual life and property by both private (capitalist) and government (socialist/communist) interests. Catholic and Protestant Europe came to blows against each during the 17th century and neither side gained ascendancy. Catholic Europe gradually fell behind Protestant Europe in the eighteenth century except for Napoleon's brief conquests after 1800. Protestant Europe,especially Britain and Prussia, greatly expanded their power in the 19th century but by the early 20th century both the Catholic and Protestant regions of Europe had completely exhausted themselves. Since Protestantism has collapsed in much the way Catholicism is now struggling to survive, Belloc's \\"Modern Attack\\" has come to the fore. Belloc devotes only a handful of pages to the Modern Attack and does not go into very many details about what and whom it constitutes. Modernism in its broadest definition encompasses a plethora of different political movements, philosophies, ideologies, superstitions and pseudo-religions, but is basically the denial of God's existence as a transcendent Being independent of humanity and the material world. According to Modernism, man created God in order to deal with complex problems of life that had no material (\\"scientific\\" or \\"rational\\") solution at primitive stages in human evolution and therefore what God actually exists is merely a quaint figment of our imaginations. Belloc notes that there can be no peace or tolerance between the Catholic position and that of the Modern Attack. Either the Church will be swallowed up until something as small as \\"the Pope and the twelve apostles\\" (better put if Belloc simply said \\"the twelve apostles\\") remain or the Church reemerges triumphant as it had in the past. Belloc concludes his survey in an optimistic rather than pessimistic light. Even if the Church shrinks to an obscure sect invisible, ignored and frequently ridiculed in the neo-pagan society arising, it can never be destroyed and it will always remain a witness to the Truth until Christ returns.  <br />	2004-09-14
US	35854103	R2L8QNG61WMUXF	0913836613	924800637	The Holy Fire: The Story of the Fathers of the Eastern Church	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Fathers of the Eastern Church.	\\"The Eastern Cross still stands on our altars, though we do not see it with our eyes\\" (xxi). <br /> <br />Robert Payne's _The Holy Fire: The Story of the Fathers of the Eastern Church_ (also subtitled _The Story of the Early Centuries of the Christian Church in the Near East_) is a droll and quaint read on the early Fathers.  Payne does an excellent job showing the human faces behind the icons of Christianity's greatest theologians and hierarchs.  The book is published by St. Vladimir's Seminary Press, connected to the Orthodox Church in America, which prints many books by non-Orthodox authors.  The preface is written by Fr. Thomas Hopko, dean of St. Vladimir's.  Hopko points out the discrepancies between Payne's viewpoint and the official line of the Orthodox Church.  Payne's work has a number of historical flukes and inconsistencies and his adulation of Origen and the Gnostic texts discovered at Nag Hammadi in Egypt is questionable by Orthodox standards.  However, as Hopko notes, it is the spirit of Payne's work that makes it a worthwhile read.  _The Holy Fire_ consists of brief narrative biographies of ten Fathers: Clement of Alexandria, Origen, St. Athanasius, St. Basil the Great, St. Gregory of Nyssa, St. Gregory Nazianzen, St. John Chrysostom, St. Dionysius the Areopagite, St. John (Mansur) Damascene and St. Gregory Palamas.  As another reviewer notes, the book should have also included a chapter on St. Maximus the Confessor to make the topic whole.  However, a book like this simply cannot in depth cover such a vast historical and theological span of time (1000 years) in the space of only three hundred pages.  Payne wavers back and forth in his presentation of the Fathers: they are often idealized and glamorized while at the same time Payne highlights many of the less than ideal aspects of these men.  Many of them were involved in political and ecclesiastical strife.  The most mysterious of them all is St. \\"Dionysius,\\" a totally anonymous mystic of the fifth century who wrote texts on apophatic (defining God by what He is not) theology and celestial hierarchies of angels.  His theology of \\"the cloud of unknowing\\" had a huge influence on subsequent mystics, both of the East and West.  The Fathers' teachings and ways of contemplating God and Christ are described in great detail and crafty language.  Payne notes well that the faith of the Eastern Fathers is not exactly the same as that of the West, although all of the fundamental doctrines and dogmas of Christianity anywhere and in whatever church were shaped by these Greek mystics of the late Roman Empire.  \\"We shall not understand the Eastern Christians unless we see them as they saw themselves, in the light of the Apocalypse or the blaze of the Transfiguration.....  And they did not dwell very much on the Crucifixion or on the youthful Christ who walked in the cornfields: the Christ who haunted their dreams neither suffered excruciating pain nor gathered the husks in His hands.  For them the lightning struck and the earth trembled, and in a moment of vision they saw the image of God towering down against the golden heavens, wearing on His head the diadem of an emperor\\" (xiii).  Payne further elaborates on a central difference of emphasis between Eastern and Western Christianity regarding the work of Christ.  The West has generally looked toward the Atonement as the cornerstone of the Gospel message while the East has fixed its gaze on the uncreated Light radiating from Christ at the Transfiguration.  This is an excellent overview of the Fathers even if it is not doctrinally correct on every point.  The spirit in which it is written and not the specifics of its content is what make this book an enlightening and engaging read on the Eastern Fathers and the form and essence of early Christianity in general. <br />	2004-09-13
US	35854103	R1938QIITHKEV6	0486270661	906494135	The Trial and Death of Socrates: Four Dialogues (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Plato and Socrates and the Immortality of the Soul.	This edition of _The Trial and Death of Socrates_ contains Plato's four famous dialogues between Socrates and his friends and detractors before the noteworthy philosopher was condemned to death by the Athenian tribunal in ancient Greece.  I find this topic of interest because of the close relationship between Platonic thought and early Christian philosophy during the period of roughly 250-750 A.D. when the fundamentals of Christian doctrine were formed.  It is clear from a reading of this series of texts why Plato, although a pagan preceding Christ for several hundred years, was very popular among Christian prelates, monks, polemicists, theologians and philosophers.  The texts make somewhat awkward reading because they are presented in the forms of dialogue between Socrates and his friends and detractors and thus Plato does not have to express unequivocally what his own opinions are regarding the debates.  The first text discussed in this volume is entitled \\"Euthyphro\\" and discusses the nature of piety.  Here Plato has Socrates question many of the concepts associated with the polytheistic worship and piety of ancient Athens.  Socrates' famous \\"Apology\\" is a treatise against the accusations of the courts of Athens.  Socrates argues for the fact that only God is ultimately the source of wisdom and in all his interactions with fellow poets, artists, philosophers, statesmen, etc., he has not found true wisdom, at least not any wisdom that he himself does not already possess.  In \\"Crito\\" Socrates debates with those among his followers who entreat him to flee Athens and take up refuge in a safer city.  \\"Phaedo\\" contains the account of Socrates' last dialogue and concludes with Socrates' death by consuming hemlock poison as ordered by the Athenian court.  Socrates explains that he does not fear death because the physical things of this world are impermanent and only the soul is ultimately immortal.  Death is in fact an improvement in man's condition and he advocates a type of otherworldly asceticism (disdaining external appearances, food, clothing and human love) as the true path for the philosopher who wants to understand and contemplate the nature of reality in a pure fashion.  The body dies and the soul is immortal and therefore the most important thing is to attend to the metaphysical realities while in this life.  Socrates argues, among other things, that the soul is pre-existent of the body, a concept which was taken up later by the Christian philosopher Origen and later condemned as heresy.  He also believes in a concept of the afterlife where the soul is either punished for wrongdoing or rewarded for good.  Some souls go through a process of purification before they can advance, similar to the Roman Catholic doctrine of Purgatory.  _The Trial and Death of Socrates_ is an excellent read about an important figure in the history of religion and philosophy, especially as it shows the mindset of one who was willing to die for his beliefs (martyrdom).  Not all of Plato and Socrates ideas were adopted by the Church but despite certain discrepancies they were nonetheless influential.	2004-09-13
US	35854103	R29XBCMHINVO7J	1579100902	453609733	The Setting in Life for The Arbiter of John Philoponus, 6th Century Alexandrian Scientist	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Toil Lover and the Contingent Nature of God's Creation.	_The Setting in Life for The Arbiter of John Philoponus_ by John Emory McKenna is an odd dissertation that gives the political and theological background behind the work of a noted sixth century Alexandrian scientist.  McKenna notes that Philoponus' life and background remain somewhat of a mystery.  \\"Philoponus\\" literally means \\"Toil Lover.\\"  There is no evidence that he was married, he was widely respected for his research and scholarly enterprises and the epithet \\"Philoponus\\" may refer to a group or brotherhood of dedicated scholars and Christians to which this scientist may have been a part.  He was also known as the Grammarian, or professor.  As McKenna outlines, the Eastern Roman/Byzantine Empire was rife with conflict during the late 400s and 500s because of the \\"monophysite\\" schism between the eastern Orthodox churches which either did or did not affirm the doctrine of Christ's \\"two natures after the union\\" of the Council of Chalcedon.  The problem was further compounded because of the fact that both sides anathematized against each using the authoritative writings of St. Cyril of Alexandria's Christology confirmed at the Council of Ephesus in 431 against the Nestorian heresy.  The emperor Justinian was interested in somehow resolving the theological issues between the Chalcedonians and non-Chalcedonians with a definitive statement on Christology, making an attempt to understand of the relationship between the Divinity and humanity of Christ in terms acceptable to both sides.  John Philoponus was commissioned by the emperor to accomplish this task and regrettably failed.  He was disdained by the Orthodox as a monophysite and the non-Chalcedonian churches regarded him as a tri-theist because of his heavy emphasis of Christ's single, composite nature.  Philoponus was later condemned posthumously at the Sixth Ecumenical Council and many of his works were burned.  Although his theological work became taboo, some of Philoponus' material has survived in Syriac, Latin and Arabic translation because his philosophical treatises on Aristotle found an audience amongst various medieval European and Islamic scholars.  Moreover, recent scholarship has taken interest in Philoponus because of his extremely revolutionary work in the area of the sciences.  Philoponus challenged the assumption of a millennium of previous cosmological theories based on Plato and Aristotle that held nearly unanimously onto the idea that the universe itself was eternal and self-perpetuating, a reflection of divine perfection.  Against this, Philoponus argued, rooted in Christian doctrine, was that the universe was totally contingent on the creative action of God.  This rejection of the universe's static nature allowed for more radical, less mechanistic view of the cosmos.  His ideas on light are a forerunner to modern day quantum physics.  I recommend this book to anyone looking for some insight into the post-Chalcedonian schism amongst the eastern Orthodox because of the political and theological issues covered.  The book's layout could use some better formatting: it is a photographic reprint of a master's thesis and could stand to be re-edited and reformatted to make for less awkward reading.	2004-09-10
US	35854103	R3P9AS5YEBF6UI	0818907452	600537539	Virginity: A Positive Approach to Celibacy for the Sake of the Kingdom of Heaven	Books	3	10	18	N	N	A Brief Introduction to Celibacy.	Raniero Cantalamenssa's short book _Virginity: A Positive Approach to Celibacy for the Kingdom of Heaven_ presents a case for the practice of celibacy in the Roman Catholic Church.  Cantalamessa's approach is a self-styled \\"positive\\" one and he goes to great lengths to avoid the familiar \\"women are the devil\\" arguments found for instance in the _Hammer of Witches_ and the Book of Sirach.  He also avoids the \\"Neo-Platonic\\" philosophies and speculations of such Christian illuminaries as St. John Chrysostom and instead keeps to simple exhortations based on the example of following Christ.  The author notes that beyond the well-known examples of St. Paul and the Virgin Mary in status, Christ himself is the \\"Arch-Virgin\\" (in Patristic thought Archiparthenos) and the creation of the world by the Holy Trinity is itself virginal.  Virginity and celibacy is also a symbol of the resurrection in which there will be \\"neither marriage or giving in marriage.\\"  Celibacy remains a state blessed by God along of course with married life.  Cantalamessa's approach is a bit overly sentimental and it is the old-time Neo-Platonic philosophy that gives the practice of celibacy its greatest exaltation.  I recommend it as a basic introduction to the topic but it is not the best source for a broad analysis and historical perspective on celibacy in the Christian tradition.	2004-08-23
US	35854103	RH7HAE6U62X9B	0879739266	175582079	The Twelve: The Lives of the Apostles After Calvary	Books	5	18	19	N	N	The Twelve Apostles of Christ.	_The Twelve: The Lives of the Apostles After Calvary_ is an interesting book by a Catholic author, C. Bernard Ruffin.  It catalogues the lives, travels and evangelical exploits of the twelve apostles from the New Testament, the writings of the Fathers and various apocryphal historical novels.  The first problem about writing about the apostles, as Ruffin explains, is to differentiate between \\"the disciples,\\" \\"the apostles\\" and \\"the Twelve.\\"  Disciple refers to any full-fledged follower of Christ and especially to the seventy (or seventy-two) missionaries sent to the villages of Judea during Christ's lifetime.  Apostle refers to a special office within the Church that was instituted by Christ to officially declare the Gospel and later on ordain bishops, deacons and presbyters.  \\"The Twelve\\" encompasses the twelve men explicitly named in the Gospels as those whom Jesus called and taught during his lifetime in this world.  A number of saints in Christian history, notably St. Paul, have attained the status of \\"apostle\\" or \\"equal to the apostles\\" even though they were obviously not in Christ's original entourage.  Ruffin does not address the issue of why twelve were called, but it is obviously an Old Testament metaphor of the Twelve Tribes of Israel who originated from Jacob (Israel) and his twelve sons.  A problem exists in identifying exactly who the Twelve were because many of them went by multiple names and many figures in the New Testament shared the same name.  Ruffin provides an authoritative list: Peter, Andrew, James the Greater, James the Less, John, Philip, Bartholomew (a.k.a. Nathaniel), Thomas, Matthew, Simon, Jude (a.k.a. Thaddeus), and Judas Iscariot whose place was later filled by Matthias.  James the Greater and James the Less are both to be distinguished from James the Righteous who was Bishop of Jerusalem and author of the Epistle of James.  Most suffered martyrdom for Christ having lived lengthy lives spreading the Gospel of Christ, except for John who died of an illness in old age.  Peter of course founded the episcopacy of Rome and Andrew at Constantinople.  Many were active in Judea, Syria, Asia Minor, Egypt, Greece and Rome.  Some of the apostles are held to have traveled as far as Britain, Iran/Persia, Ethiopia, Armenia, Scythia/southern Russia, Spain, India and even China and Southeast Asia.  The most extensive traditions exist regarding \\"Doubting Thomas.\\"  He is reputed to have traveled to the Punjab region of India, southward along the Malabar Coast and onward to what is today Burma and Malaysia.  Thomas is considered the founder of the Indian Orthodox Church dating back to the first century.  Ruffin examines the status and motives of Judas and what made him a traitor to Christ.  More space in this book is devoted to Peter than to the other apostles and in some instances Ruffin argues for an interpretation of the New Testament accounts of Peter in order to justify papal supremacy over the Church.  However, this book remains an excellent, easy to read introduction to early traditions regarding the apostles and their mission to the ends of the earth.	2004-08-20
US	35854103	R2GMRSTUGJZIPO	0937944017	457939738	Which Way Western Man?	Books	4	65	78	N	N	From the Pen of Satan Himself...	William Gayley Simpson's _Which Way Western Man_ is a massive (1000+-page) tome recently republished in 2003 by the National Alliance.  It is advertised as the most comprehensive and well-researched volume detailing \\"racialist philosophy.\\"  The author is an ex-Franciscan monk who repudiated many of his previous Christian moorings and embraced the philosophical speculations of Friedrich Nietzsche.  Simpson collected, researched and wrote much of his material for this book during the 1930s and 40s and revised a substantial portion of his work in the 1970s.  Simpson died in 1991 and this edition is the result of the efforts of the National Alliance's founder, William Pierce, to republish Simpson's work.  As the back cover warns, \\"You may find in this book ideas or ideals that at first hearing strike you as abhorrent.\\"  Simpson does not fail to deliver on this statement.  To many if not most readers this book is simply the thoughts of Satan himself in print.  Although I do not agree with a good amount of the contents in this book, I believe it deserves a wider readership because of the counter-revolutionary stance of its arguments.  Simpson analyzes many modern day issues and how they relate to the history and fate of Western civilization and to the white race that founded it.  He begins by glancing at the teachings of Jesus and Christianity and concludes that although Jesus was a great mystic and philosopher, he has little to offer for the survival of the West.  Simpson contrasts Jesus with Nietzsche and the figures of Aryan mythology and folklore, recommending the latter as offering ideals more natural to those of an aristocratic Western society.  Simpson examines mysticism in general noting that it consists of a transformation of consciousness where one does not differentiate his own existence from that of the rest of the universe.  The concept of God as a transcendent Deity is thus denied.  According to Simpson, the only God knowable to humanity is an immanent innervoice speaking to gifted individuals who are in one way or another in tune with nature and the universe.  Simpson contains two chapters dealing with relations between the sexes and condemns absolutely everything to do with the women's emancipation/feminist movement of the past 100 years.  He advocates a return to earlier customs in which females were married at young ages (when they are by nature more fertile) to older, more experienced males.  Since his objective is to expand and improve the breeding stock of the race, Simpson makes a case for arranged marriages and the reinstitution of polygamy and of course the traditional male patriarchal family structure.  Simpson favors an aristocratic government that bases its authority on breeding, land, personal accomplishment and family tradition rather than on strictly financial status.  His ultimate goal is a monarchy that would have an organic connection with the people rather than our current oligarchic regime of money-tycoons (often Jews and therefore racial aliens) that seek to exploit the people and the natural resources of the land.  The second half of the book focuses on the necessity for a \\"purified\\" race and the gradual weeding out of inferiors by sterilization and in some extreme cases, euthanasia.  Even incestuous marriages between very closely related relatives should be condoned because they are the quickest way to reproduce desired characteristics as long as the undesirable recessive traits are removed.   Simpson discusses the radical differences between blacks and whites and advocates re-colonizing blacks to Africa.  An African re-colonization plan is not novel to Simpson, however, because such prominent American statesmen played with the idea as Jefferson and Lincoln in addition to the popular Black Nationalist Marcus Garvey.  Lastly, Simpson touches upon and elaborates on what is ultimately the most critical problem facing the white race: international Jewry and their control of finance.  The Jews havebeen in a conspiracy to take over the whole world and make Jerusalem in Palestine the center of their world empire since ancient times.  Simpson's solution to the \\"Jewish problem\\" is the denial of citizenship status to Jews everywhere and humanely settling them on a reserved area of the earth like Madagascar, which was in fact Hitler's original plan.  There is much positive and negative content in Simpson's book.  In one instance he claims that Europe has been on the wrong track since the end of the Middle Ages yet it should look toward a new Nietzschean philosophical underpinning that would guarantee racial survival.  This is inherently contradictory because Christianity--and not only Christianity but also Catholic Christianity--dominated the worldview of aristocratic, monarchial Europe.  There is also a discrepancy between Simpson's ideal vision of a decentralized, rather libertarian agricultural society and doctors and scientists examining people in order to determine their genetic desirability.  The book is dated in some points.  It does not discuss the many important issues related to this theme (baby boomers, immigrants from Latin America and Asia, the gay rights movement, for example) that have arisen in the meantime from the 1970s to the 21st century.   I recommend this book for anyone interested in the role of Jews in the world today in addition to finding a more balanced, traditional outlook that acknowledges sexual polarity and the need to avoid miscegenation if a culture and national community want to survive intact.  Religious and ethical questions aside, Simpson's _Which Way Western Man_ is ultimately a well articulated and reflective attack on the most pretentious doctrine ever elaborated: human equality.	2004-08-19
US	35854103	R1Z0MAW7K1C9SK	189894220X	161957501	Icons and the Mystical Origins of Christianity	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Neoplatonic Interpretation of Christian Iconography.	_Icons and the Mystical Origins of Christianity_ by Richard Temple is a short work that explains the ethereal qualities of iconography in terms of \\"Traditionalist\\" or \\"Perennialist\\" philosophy.  Temple traces various schools of mystical, esoteric thought that both preceded and was contemporary with the early Church.  Among these were the Zoroastrians, Platonists, Pythagoreans, Essenes, Therapeutae, Gnostics and Neoplatonists.  Temple maintains that all of these groups held to a common belief in a Perennial Philosophy that was known to the earliest humans and was carried down generation to generation, largely orally from master to student, among various races, cultures and civilizations in a variety of forms.  The central belief is that of a transcendent, objective reality along with a sort of self-realization by coming into contact with one's inner God.  Although Temple's book reflects a gnostic perspective, he contends that the Fathers of the Church (especially Clement of Alexandria and Origen), the Desert Fathers and the Hesychasts of Eastern Christianity in their turn carried on this gnostic tradition.  Several Fathers, such as St. Augustine, commented that Christianity was in fact the restored primordial religion of Adam before the fall.  An important issue Temple touches on is the methods of interpreting scripture and how this relates to sacred Christian art.  Clement of Alexandria and Origen stressed the imperative of interpreting the Scriptures in an allegorical manner because although the Bible may be literally true, taking certain parts literally when allegorical interpretation would have been more appropriate can become a cause of unnecessary confusion and spiritual delusion.  In the same mode, Temple notes that it is the allegorical and spiritual realities that icons depict that take precedence over their literal, historical meaning.  For instance, icons depict various stages of consciousness, from the lower, physical and material realm to suprarational angelic intelligence all the way up to the Divine Essence.  My main contention with this book is that is seems to deny the historical reality of Christ at the expense of a gnostic and allegorical interpretation of the scenes icons present.  Temple's God appears to be an immanence of human intelligence (albeit existing independent of time and space in the normal sense), rather than an actual transcendent God who in fact exists totally independent of human existence and experience.  However, it is important to understand that icons and sacred texts do contain a \\"hidden\\" meaning beyond what is readily apparent for those who seek deeper insights into the nature of the cosmos.	2004-08-16
US	35854103	R45Q00W3ZQF4L	0195152972	530041884	Against the Modern World: Traditionalism and the Secret Intellectual History of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	30	47	N	N	The Traditionalist Movement.	_Against the Modern World: Traditionalism and the Secret Intellectual History of the Twentieth Century_ is a biography of Rene Guenon and an overview of several other prominent Traditionalists and their radical views regarding the modern world.  It also details their attempts to influence various movements: Fascism, the SS, postwar Italian domestic terrorism, Islamism in the Middle East, Russian radical politics and even the academic study of religions in the Western world.  Most of the focus in this book is on European converts to Islam and Sufi (Islamic mystics) groups in particular.  Traditionalism was bound up with the discovery of previously unfamiliar Muslim, Hindu and Buddhist spiritual writings during the nineteenth century and the general disenchantment with both modern material progressivism and Christianity among European intellectuals.  The central principles of Traditionalism, also known as Perennialism, actually first surface during the Renaissance in the work of a Ficino, a Catholic scholar.  Ficino postulated that Christianity, Judaism and the philosophy of ancient Greece all shared the same common primordial origin that has been obscured and hidden by the passage of time.  Rene Guenon was a French mathematician who turned his attention to the study of Hindu texts and Masonry where he attempted to reconstruct a view of religions along these lines.  His work was not taken seriously by mainstream French academia, but it nevertheless spread into many different countries and attracted a considerable following.  Guenon's most popular books, among which are _The Crisis of the Modern World_ (1927) and _The Reign of Quantity and the Sign of the Times_, build a philosophical and metaphysical case against the modern world exemplified in the West's fascination with science and technology at the expense of traditional religious values.  Guenon's frustration with Western society was such that he vanished from France during the 1930s and later reemerged in Egypt and converted to Islam in order to live in a religious, traditional, conservative society.  Traditionalism was merged with radical Right-wing politics in the works and career of Baron Julius Evola.  Evola's publications in the Italian press attempted to spread Traditionalist and pagan ideas in support of Mussolini's Fascist regime.  He was unsuccessful in this attempt, but briefly curried favor in some circles of Nazi Germany and the SS, and hoped his beliefs regarding race and an elite Order of occult initiates would be adopted.  Evola lived until 1974 and his books were popular with Right-wing Italian terrorists.  Traditionalism was bound up with the emergence of Sufi groups led by Western converts to Islam like Schuon's Maryamiyya group (so named because of Schuon's visions he claimed to have of the Virgin Mary, named Maryam in Arabic).  The Maryamiyya, as Sedgwick relates, certainly did not adhere to a strictly orthodox form of Islam as Sufis are supposed to, but Schuon instead engaged in strange syncretistic ceremonies mixing a variety of religious practices, some even involving nudity and exotic dancing.  The foremost Muslim promoter of Traditionalism was the MIT educated Iranian Seyyed Hossein Nasr.  Nasr published extensively on Islam and was a major figure in Iranian academia before the Islamic Revolution toppled the Shah's government.  In fact, Nasr's scholarship may have in fact inadvertently given some steam to the Revolution because of his emphasis on traditional historical religious values within the Islamic tradition.  American and European religious studies were influenced by the extensive work of Mircea Eliade, a Romanian scholar and intellectual who was heavily involved in Romania's Right-wing, anti-Jewish Legion of the Archangel Michael, a movement which sympathized with Nazism during World War II.  Eliade was caught outside of Romania on a diplomatic mission when Romania joined the Axis, and later taught and published extensive scholarly works onreligion in Western Europe and America.  Traditionalism surfaced more recently in the early 1990s during Russia's post-communist radical political scene, where some of its principles have provided and impetus for a \\"Red-Brown\\" alliance (Communist and fascist/nationalist) against Russia's adoption of a Western political and economic structure.  Traditionalism has already had its heyday, and it definitely seems to be much more entrenched in Europe than it is in the United States.  I personally have not met anyone in the flesh who has even heard of Guenon, let alone can (or would even be interested in) discussing his ideas.  Many individuals who have encountered Traditionalism have used its principles as a springboard into other religious traditions.  A noted case being that of Fr. Seraphim Rose who studied Guenon's works and eventually converted into the Russian Orthodox Church and founded the St. Herman of Alaska Brotherhood in Platina, California during the 1960s.  In all, _Against the Modern World_ is an excellent academic history and analysis.  Traditionalism carries some negative connotations, especially among liberals (the dust-jacket illustration features a shady silhouette of a man dressed in a trench coat carrying a briefcase-most likely with a bomb inside).  However, Traditionalism, especially in its \\"softer\\" variety as espoused by Eliade, Theosophy and the New Age, is deeply ingrained in liberal spiritual consciousness because of the widespread belief that all religions are essentially the same.  One criticism I have is that while it provides plenty of information about the actual history and lives of prominent Traditionalists, it does not provide a very detailed summary of their major works and the religious beliefs themselves (besides Sufism) that inspired them.	2004-08-09
US	35854103	R14306RS199SSL	0940262819	303721631	Holy Grail and the Eucharist (Esalen-Lindisfarne Library of Russian Philosophy)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Treatise on Orthodox Eucharistic Theology.	_The Holy Grail and the Eucharist_ by a Russian Orthodox priest, Fr. Sergius Bulgakov, consists of two essays on Eastern Orthodox Eucharistic theology. The first, essay, &quot;The Holy Grail&quot; addresses a passage in the Gospel John where Christ's body on the Cross is pierced by a Roman soldier and blood and water flowed out. Bulgakov explains that this symbolizes the redemption and sanctification of the Earth. The entire Earth can be considered a chalice containing Christ's blood. The essay does not address the legends connected with Arthurian romance and the quest for the Holy Grail. The second essay, &quot;The Eucharistic Dogma&quot; engages in a hairsplitting polemic against the Roman Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation based on the Orthodox patristic definition of the Eucharist as a transmutation of the bread and wine. The book features an introduction by a Byzantine Catholic priest and an afterward by Caitlin Matthews, a writer on various mystical subjects. I only gave this book two stars because of the back cover's blatant lie: &quot;Most theology seems abstract and intellectual, but this book by Father Sergius Bulgakov demonstrates another, more poetic, approach to the divine mysteries, one that speaks to our minds and hearts. We may call it mystical lyricism.&quot; As far as books on theology go, this one takes the cake for an ultra-abstract and obscure subject. I tried as hard as possible to enjoy reading this and understand how it could be relevant to my understanding of theology but could not. Fr. Bulgakov's works are apparently very unpopular amongst the Orthodox for his writings on Sophia as Divine Wisdom. I've never seen his books advertised or published in Orthodox catalogues or bookstores, and the publisher Lindisfarne seems to approach Christian theology from a somewhat neo-Gnostic standpoint rather than that of Christian Orthodoxy. There are plenty of other sources on Orthodox Eucharistic theology from authors whose explanations of doctrine are both more succinct and less controversial.are both more succinct and less controversial.	2004-08-03
US	35854103	R17Y9PSH58PBS4	0964914182	630821124	Truth: What Every Roman Catholic Should Know About the Orthodox Church (Faith Catechism)	Books	5	94	109	N	N	Christian Orthodoxy Vs. The Gospel According to Rome.	Clark Carlton's _The Truth: What Every Roman Catholic Should Know About the Orthodox Church_ is a layman's text that relates the key theological stances between Rome and Orthodoxy that hinder their reunion. Specifically, it is written to explain why the two Churches are not likely to reunite in the foreseeable future. When I picked up this volume, noting that it was published by Frank Schaeffer's Regina Orthodox Press, I expected a rather numb-skull one-sided polemic written against Roman Catholicism in the same style evangelical/fundamentalist Protestants tend to treat their theological opponents. I was surprised that this book kept this to a minimum and remained relatively objective, while presenting its information in a very accessible manner. The central differences between the Catholics and Orthodox since the schism in 1054 involve the following: <br /> 1) The Byzantine Empire and its Church-State relationship. The official seat of the Roman Empire was moved from Rome to the Greek city of Byzantium across the Bosporous from Asia Minor and renamed Constantinople by Constantine the Great. The Church in the Empire operated independently from the secular authority of the Roman Emperor, at least in theory. On many occasions the Emperor tried to influence Church doctrine and policy for Imperial ends, but the ideal relationship was one where the Church and Emperor fulfilled their respective sacred and secular duties. The Papacy, on the other hand, developed into an autonomous secular power in Italy. It was gradually, after 800 AD, integrated into the feudal structure of the Germanic kingdoms. Carlton notes that before the schism, as the &quot;Holy Roman Empire was neither Holy, nor Roman nor an Empire,&quot; the Roman Catholic Church was &quot;neither Roman nor Catholic.&quot; Most of the Roman popes of the pre-schism time period were in fact Germans and puppets of the Frankish kings, such as the noted Gregory VII. &quot;Catholic&quot; is better understood in the sense that it means &quot;complete/whole&quot; rather than &quot;universal.&quot; The Byzantine Greeks, on the other hand maintained an identity where they defined themselves as \\"Romanoi\\" or the Romans.  <br /> 2) Doctrinal statements about the Holy Trinity and especially the Filioque addition to the Nicene Creed. A major controversy erupted between Latin and Greek prelates over the addition of &quot;and the Son&quot; to the part of the Creed relating to the Procession of the Holy Spirit. The Greeks refused to add the Filioque to the Creed as it was obviously a misunderstood addition made by a local synod in Spain. Pope John VIII actually repudiated the addition to the Creed as blasphemous in dialogue with the Greeks. However, later Latin popes and theologians continued its use. <br /> 3) Salvation. The Orthodox maintain a less legalistic, Augustinian position regarding salvation than to the Catholics. Salvation comes to man through participation in God's uncreated grace in a process of _theosis_ (deification) or becoming like God. The Fathers drew a popular analogy: that of iron heated in a furnace. Man is like the iron, becoming heated by the fire but not actually becoming the fire itself. The Roman Catholic doctrine places an emphasis on sin, guilt and expiation. The Orthodox do not believe that mankind inherited Adam's guilt through sexual intercourse but only Adam's fallen nature, which is universal to humanity. The doctrine of Purgatory is also denied. <br /> 4) The nature and organization of the Church. This remains a very important issue for all Christian churches. The Roman Catholics devised a system of papal control over the entire Church from the dark ages that reached its apex at the Vatican I council declaring the Infallibility of the Pope. The Catholic bishops are reduced in status as mere &quot;vicars of the pope.&quot; The Orthodox adheres to a more collegial tradition of episcopal authority where no single Bishop is in charge of the entire Church. Individuals can err, so the Catholics are in a quandary when the popes err, the majority of the believers and bishops can err, yet the Church, as an organic whole, cannot. <br /> 5) The veneration of Mary. The Roman Church adheres to a \\"super-human\\" vision of Mary that manifests itself in the dogmas of the Immaculate Conception and the Assumption. The Immaculate Conception, which states that Mary was born without original sin, serves to separate Mary from the rest of humanity and makes her in fact the \\"great exception\\" rather than the \\"great exemplar.\\" In my opinion, Marian devotions in many cases seem to border on a type of pagan Goddess worship. Mary has almost become a person of the Trinity in her own right amongst the Catholics. This is especially apparent, as noted by Carlton, in the recent drive among various Catholics to have the pope declare Mary to \\"Coredemptrix,\\" i.e. Co-Redeemer along with Christ. Carlton also takes a very negative view regarding recent Marian apparitions (like Fatima and Lourdes) as possible demonic deceptions and false prophecy.  <br /> Carlton's last chapter addresses evangelicals who are considering conversion to either Roman Catholicism or Orthodoxy in order to be in a more historically grounded Christian tradition. He reiterates many of the arguments above. The book also has three appendices consisting of various official statements of Orthodox bishops on specific Catholic doctrines such as the Filioque and why the Orthodox are not interested in reuniting with Rome for theological reasons.	2004-08-01
US	35854103	RN0CYPVVLJZZU	0865274304	515853887	The Inequality of Human Races	Books	3	17	26	N	N	Gobineau's Racial Philosophy and Questionable Anthropology.	Count Arthur de Gobineau's essay _The Inequality of Human Races_ has long been lambasted for being the seminal document of nineteenth century racism and an influence on Nazism nearly one hundred years after it was originally written. Gobineau, a member of the French aristocracy, first published his book during the 1850s coinciding with the advent of Darwin's _Origin of Species_ and the rise of evolutionary theory. The current English language publisher, Howard Fertig Inc., describes the book as &quot;the basic document which puts forward racism as a world view.&quot; Howard Fertig publishes books by George L. Mosse who has written extensively on the history of irrationalism in Europe and especially on the Nazi and Fascist regimes, so the cover's &quot;swastika design&quot; does not mean the publisher endorses Neo-Nazism, as other reviewers seem to think. The same publisher also offers a translation of another incendiary text popular with Nazis written a few generations after Gobineau in the early 1900s: Otto Weininger's _Sex and Character_. Gobineau's essay is not virulently hateful or prejudiced against other races, at least not more so than other anthropological literature of the time. Nor is he entirely content with his progressive, technologically advanced Europe of the 1800s. Gobineau explains that it is pretentious at best to believe mankind is capable of infinite progress in the scientific and technical sphere because human nature, human perception of the environment and human conception of the cosmos and reality itself is fundamentally limited. The ancient civilizations especially of Greece and Hindu India were much less scientific and technological than modern Europe but they were far superior to ours as far as the arts, religion and philosophy were concerned. Greece left its temples and statues while France, Germany, Britain and America seem destined to leave ruins behind, and a mass of moldering books stuffed in libraries about transitory, dated knowledgeand little else. He attributes the collapse of civilization to racial intermixture. According to Gobineau, the original founders of all civilization were white Aryans who originated in the steppes of Asia and spread southward into India, Egypt, Mesopotamia, Europe, and East Asia and even to the Americas. They conquered the yellow and black races and eventual intermixture spawned the numerous mixed races seen around the world today among who are the Arabs, Turks, Jews, Huns and various other peoples. Gobineau addresses Christianity as a possible civilizing force. He concludes the Christianity has in no account civilized any tribe--white missionaries have. However, Gobineau explains that supreme credit is due to the teachings of Christ because they do not address social life. Christianity is a religion of the Sprit and prayer and does not rely on any type of social structure, civilization structure or government, either tyrannical, democratic, monarchial, liberal, authoritarian or otherwise to get its message across. This is well attested by the fact that the Church has flourished in all corners of the globe amongst every possible race imaginable. Gobineau ascribes to an unorthodox interpretation of the Genesis account of creation and his anthropology is of course dated and lacking. He attributes the origins of the white race to Adam but is uncertain about the other races. According to Genesis, all races are descended from Adam but it is a mark of fallen humanity that they are divided into different nations and speak different tongues. The Tower of Babel was man's failed attempt to create a kingdom based on universal human brotherhood instead of divine order: they all spoke the same tongue and tried to reach heaven but God scattered them to the ends of the earth. Therefore Gobineau is no closer to understanding the origins of humanity any more than today's Boasian anthropologists and Darwinists who believe what observable racial inequalities that exist are &quot;merely a social construct.&quot; With today's widespread and media encouraged miscegenation, we are seeing the same rebellion against the Spirit that Gobineau was beginning to witness in the 1800s. It is also unlikely that whites have been responsible for all civilizations, especially since Gobineau never quite defines exactly who constitutes an Aryan and who does not.	2004-07-30
US	35854103	R2C31A1KV9ZXLY	0766151220	838650275	Spirit and Origin of Christian Monasticism	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Defending the Christian Monks and Hermits.	_The Spirit and Origin of Christian Monasticism_ (a reprint of a book published in 1903) by James O. Hannay is an excellent outline of the early monastic movement focusing on St. Anthony of Egypt, St. Basil the Great of Cappadocia and St. Benedict of Italy. Hannay begins his discussion on whether or not monasticism, and asceticism in general, are of in fact of Christian inspiration. Hannay writes as an Anglican in England that since the 1500s had been at odds with the Roman Catholic Church and held divergent views of the Christian life. In Protestant theology, the ideal Christian life is that of a good citizen, while in Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy (although Orthodoxy as an entity of Christendom is not specifically addressed in this book), the ideal is a life of virginity and ascetic self-denial. Many attempts have been made by historians of religions, both secular and Protestant, to discredit monasticism as foreign to the sprit of Christianity by tracing it to earlier pagan devotional practices. Possible monastic influences may have come from Hinduism and Buddhism in India, the Jewish Essene sect, the Therapeutae of ancient Greece, and Egypt's &quot;inclusi&quot; dedicated to the goddess Serapis. There is also the issue of whether or not Neo-Platonic philosophy, such as that of Origen, provided a catalyst for monasticism as well. Hannay proves these connections to be questionable at best; noting that monasticism was native to the spirit of Christ's teachings and the early Church by itself and not the result of extra-Christian influences. Monasticism was therefore organic, if not the unifying element, of early Christianity. It was not particularly the result of neo-Platonism or Gnosticism because most of the early hermits and monks like the followers of St. Anthony were uneducated peasants who wanted to imitate the life of Christ. Vitally important to the worldview of the hermits of the Egyptian Thebaid was the belief in demons and how they lead the soulaway from communion with God. Some ascetics went to the extreme in self-torture like that of St. Simeon Styletes, who lived on top of a thirty-foot pillar for decades. Hannay also notes that it was in fact the monks who were the most prominent theologians in the Church and the first to defend the Christian faith against its opponents. Many monastic groups also posed a threat to the established Church for a variety of reasons as well. Some fell into heresy while others nearly became schismatic with the Church because they criticized it for its worldliness. It was in part through the efforts of Evagrius and St. Basil that monasticism in the East was brought under imperial sanction and control. State control of monasteries, according to Hannay, had the negative impact of making monasticism less influential in Eastern Christendom as it was in the West. The rule of St. Benedict, derived from various previous sources, established a more moderate coenobitic life from that of eastern ascetics and gradually became the most prominent form of monasticism in the Roman Church. Benedictine monasteries became nearly the sole bastions of education and knowledge, preserving ancient manuscripts, while the rest of Europe fell into general illiteracy after the Roman Empire collapsed. This book presents a very positive assessment of monasticism, even though it is written from a Church of England perspective.	2004-07-29
US	35854103	RI50LVT9KB4HL	0684827891	983899838	From Plato To NATO: The Idea of the West and Its Opponents	Books	5	9	12	N	N	An Invaluable Deconstruction of the Liberal Grand Narrative.	David Gress's _From Plato to NATO: The Idea of the West and Its Opponents_ is not only a 550 page book on the history of Western culture and civilization, but a deconstruction of the way Western history has been commonly taught in the past twentieth century.  The so-called \\"Grand Narrative,\\" developed after WWI by Columbia University, the University of Chicago and the popular historians Will and Ariel Durant in their multi-volume _History of Civilization_ series, told a story of the progressive development of civilization, democracy, freedom and liberty beginning in ancient Greece, continuing unabated until modern democratic states.  Actually, not totally without negative incidents.  The history of imperial Rome, the rise of Christianity in late antiquity with its subsequent Church-state symbiosis, and the middle ages, represent a break in this historical liberal continuity that reemerged during the Renaissance, the Reformation and the Enlightenment out of which the modern West arose.  This Grand narrative failed to acknowledge, the main point Gress makes, the contributions of Rome, Christianity and Germanic culture to Western civilization.  However, the Grand Narrative's time frame was limited from its origins in the 1920s until roughly 1960 when far-left, multicultural, universalistic, postmodern and feminist interpretations of Western history made their appearance.  While the Grand Narrative took a positive look at the West as a bastion of liberalism and progressivism, the 1960s interpretation took a totally negative perspective: the West as racist, sexist, patriarchal, capitalistic and oppressive.  According to Gress, one of the reasons the Grand Narrative became so unpopular so quickly was that it was founded on the wrong presuppositions as to what constituted the West and overemphasized Greece at the expense of Rome, the Germans and the Catholic Church.  Part of the entire problem with interpreting history is how the all-important concept of \\"liberty\\" is to bedefined.  Two distinct definitions exist.  One is the original or classical definition of liberty as freedom over one's property without any undue government interference.  The other, more upbeat stance defines liberty in terms of equality-of rights, privileges, etc. for everyone in society.  However, liberty and equality tend to cancel each other out; people can be dummied down to be \\"equal\\" with others but they cannot be \\"forced to be free.\\"  Although Gress dismisses environmentalist concerns as pseudo-science and impeding progress especially in the Third World, I agree that environmentalism should not be attached to collectivist left-wing political agendas.  In his conclusion, Gress discusses the different views--all of them liberal and multicultural--which have attempted to define Western identity since the fall of the Soviet Union, such as it continues to remain distinct from the rest of the world.  The \\"West\\" itself has stood for many different things in the past.  It is a land of youth, power and beauty but simultaneously where the sunsets and darkness and decline seem to inevitably set in.	2004-07-13
US	35854103	R34DZIDH8RI8IS	0938635379	619195312	The Northern Thebaid: Monastic Saints of the Russian North	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Northern Thebaid: Monks and Hermits in the Arctic Circle	_The Northern Thebaid: Monastic Saints of the Russian North_ is a collection of Saints' lives edited by Fathers Seraphim Rose and Herman Podmoshensky of Platina, California and first published in 1975.  Most of the source material in this book derives from old Russian texts of the Lives of Saints from the 19th century preserved after the Russian Revolution in America's migr community.  This book refers to the period between the fourteenth and early eighteenth centuries until Peter I and Catherine I closed down many monasteries during their &quot;enlightened&quot; reforms of the 1700s.  The &quot;Northern Thebaid&quot; derives from the early Egyptian Thebaid, the desert to where hermits and monks would flee in order to live with Christ alone and be free of worldly pressures.  Russia's conversion to Orthodox Christianity began during 988 AD under the reign of St. Vladimir.  In the subsequent centuries, a repeat of the phenomenon of desert monasticism that had occurred during the Roman Empire beginning with St. Anthony the Great of Egypt in the fourth century AD.  A monk would venture into the desert by himself, separate from the world, and would later attract followers.  These disciples would collaborate and establish an official monastery.  The next generation of hermits would leave monastic settlements and venture into the woods and later attract his own following, thereby repeating the process.  In this way monasticism spread through the vast forests and wilderness of northern Russia and Siberia.  The Russian Orthodox ascetic struggle involved fasting, labor, chastity, humility, obedience and prayer.  The first Orthodox missionaries to America in the 18th century were monks; the most noted of whom is St. Herman of Alaska.  The first Saint discussed in this volume is Sergius of Radonezh who lived as a hermit and monk during the 1300s, founding monasteries and was renowned as a spiritual teacher.  St. Sabbatius of Solovki founded a monastery on an island in the Arctic Sea, which was later headed by St. Zosimas, and developed into a noteworthy center of Orthodox piety in the far north.  Unfortunately, Solovki was dismantled and used as a Communist prison after the Revolution.  The lives of most of these Saints, notes the authors, follow a similar pattern.  They look for solitude and prayer in the wilderness and face a variety of temptations, both physical from the demanding environment and supernatural evil powers.  After their deaths, many miracles and healings were attributed to these Saints, some even appearing in person after death to guide future ascetic saints in the Orthodox faith.  A few chapters address the Lives of female saints.  The authors note that there is much less material on female Saints because of the humility of Russia's holy women.  However, many of the Saints' Lives and Church records of similar type were written by women.  _The Northern Thebaid_ is almost a first volume of a two volume series.  It does not continue in depth with the history of Blessed Paisius Velichovsky and the Hesychast revival after Russian monasticism's nadir under Peter I and Catherine I.  Fr. Seraphim, in his epilogue, notes that by the time of Blessed Paisius, Russia had developed its own tradition of Orthodox sanctity equal to that of old Byzantium.	2004-07-11
US	35854103	R1APPCX046RP5G	0773732829	995461326	The Trouble With Democracy: A Citizen Speaks Out	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Insightful but horribly disorganized.	William Gairdner's _The Trouble With Democracy: A Citizen Speaks Out_ is about the corrupt nature of the secular welfare state, a reality Gairdner experiences as a Canadian citizen.  I enjoyed the first hundred pages or so of this book and I desperately wanted to finish it but found myself simply skimming through the next several hundred pages just to see what insights I could pick up.  Gairdner's thesis is essentially correct: modern democracy (&quot;hyperdemocracy&quot;) is a pseudo-religious theocratic government where a millenarian elite rules the Gnostic masses.  Its features are anti-Christianity, the priority of rights and the individual above the society/community as a whole--yet with a paradoxical emphasis on all of humanity being essentially &quot;one.&quot;  Gairdner notes that democracy has its roots in the ancient heresy of Gnosticism.  The Gnostics rejected orthodox Christianity and believed that a lesser, intrinsically evil God created the material world.  Organized religion, at least in its orthodox Christian form, was considered by the Gnostics to be a spiritual, oppressive delusion.  According to them, Christ came to liberate, not to impose external methods of worship.  Millenarians believe that the Dawn of a New Age is at hand, either through divine intervention (as was the case of various radical mystics like Joachim of Fiore during the Middle Ages), or through historical processes and human action (Marxism, Socialism, Communism, Nazism, Liberal Democracy, etc.).  The two most important intellectuals behind democratic ideology are Jean Jacques Rousseau of eighteenth century France (the collectivist/statist aspect) and John Stuart Mill of nineteenth century Britain (the individualist aspect).  Gairdner spends about half this book in hand-to-hand combat against the ideas of these two authors.  The basic problem with democracy is that it does not take into account mankind's fallen, sinful nature and is forced to adopt totalitarian measures to enforce its ideological presuppositions on the populace.  There are many problems with this book itself, however.  It presents its arguments in a totally random, disorganized fashion.  One section may mention issues relating to the Reformation, ancient Greece and Rome, natural law theory, Gnosticism and the Holocaust without any sort of historical perspective or underlying methodology as to the order and reasons as to why Gairdner presents his material.  The author also does not make it clear from what perspective he is arguing from--Catholic or Protestant.  This is especially confusing because many of the things he condemns as being affiliated with Gnosticism actually (to many uninformed readers) sound like they pertain to orthodox Christianity (such as renouncing the things of the world in order for spiritual reasons).  Some Protestant polemicists make the claim that Gnosticism corrupted Roman Catholic Christians (the most prominent theologian of whom is St. Augustine), particularly regarding monasticism and the celibacy of the clergy.  It is clear that Gairdner agrees with the thought of Edmund Burke, Aristotle and of many academic writers on political religions, Gnosticism and the Millennium such as Eric Vogelin, Hans Jonas and Norman Cohn.  Gairdner also seems unclear as to what style he should write in.  On one hand, he writes in academic prose when explaining various philosophical and political concepts, while on the other he frequently inserts the first-person singular and uses flippant slang when he dismisses the ideas of his opponents.  It should either be a solid academic treatise or a simplified booklet sold in church lobbies--but not a quirky combination of the two.  <br />I can recommend better titles that cover the errors of mob rule with more academic, philosophical and intellectual rigor: _The Myth of Democracy_ by Tage Lindbom, _The Crisis of the Modern World_ by Rene Guenon, and _The Institutes of Biblical Law_ by R. J. Rushdoony.	2004-07-04
US	35854103	RSOFAAL7ES0S7	9607120043	862162326	The Greek East and the Latin West	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Byzantium, the Papacy, Platonism and the Filioque.	_The Greek East and the Latin West: A Study in the Christian Tradition_ by Philip Sherrard is an interesting historical study concerning the theological issues behind Plato, Aristotle, Orthodox Byzantium, Medieval Western Europe, Scholasticism, the Papacy, the Filioque controversy, Neoplatonism and the emerging modern world of the Renaissance.  Sherrard, an Englishman and convert into the Greek Orthodox Church, wrote this book in the 1950s, and an adherent of Traditionalism.  Sherrard begins his analysis by examining the differences between the Platonic and Aristotelian worldviews propagated in ancient Greek philosophy.  According to Sherrard, Plato stood at the end of a philosophical tradition in Greece that viewed the world and its phenomena as manifestations of a higher divine reality.  Aristotle, on the other hand, set forth a dichotomy between the divine (conceived in the classic term as the &quot;Unmoved Mover&quot;) and the created, material world.  Aristotle placed more emphasis on the external, structural and rational nature of reality, along with the use of reason to understand it, as opposed to Plato's more mystical thought.  The later Greek city-states and in particular, ancient Rome, in their political and social organization were in accord with Aristotelian ideals: the polis in which civil virtue and service to the state were the highest virtues.  With the emergence of Christianity, however, a new sect arose which challenged the metaphysical authority of imperial Rome.  The Church, the head of whom is Christ, fulfills its work in the divine economy through the Holy Mysteries (Sacraments) and its legitimacy is in no way detracted from its official sanction (or lack thereof) by the secular state.  The conversion of the Constantine presented a problem to the Church: how was the Church supposed to remain Holy and Apostolic when it was now an organ of the Imperial authority?  The Byzantine Empire operated under a system (_Imperium_ and _Sacerdotium_) wherethe Emperor fulfilled the position of Moses and ordered society according to Christian principles while the Bishops managed the Church itself.  The Roman pope, however, attempted unsuccessfully many times to make itself both a secular and temporal authority.  This was even reflected in the different interpretations of the concept of Christ's _Corpus Mysticum_.  The Greeks focused on the Eucharist itself as the Mystical Body of Christ (esoteric) while the Latins stressed the idea that the Church itself, the external, organized body of believers was the Mystical Body (exoteric).  The differences between Eastern and Western Christianity came about in part because of their divergences in views of God's ontological Being.  According to the Greeks, a distinction exists between God's Essence, which has no relationship to anything of which can be conceived of and is hence Beyond Being itself; juxtaposed with God's Energies that man can experience from the Father via the action of the Son/Logos and the Holy Spirit.  God is Father, Son and Holy Spirit, all of the same Essence.  The Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father alone, not from both &quot;the Father and the Son&quot; according to a Latin addition to the Nicene Creed.  This is because the Father is the principle source of the Godhead and the roles of the Father and the Son in the Hypostatic Union are not confused.  The Latin addition of &quot;and the Son&quot; and its subsequent defense in the medieval Scholastic theology of Thomas Aquinas has its origins in the Aristotelian concept of God as Being itself.  If the three Persons of the Trinity are of the same Being in the Western sense then the logical outcome is that the Holy Spirit proceeds from both the Father and the Son.  This may sound like an extremely obscure and irrelevant theological debate, which it is for most people, Catholic, Orthodox, Protestant or otherwise.  Nevertheless, it was, as Sherrard explains, this view of theology that provided the impetus for the &quot;world domination&quot; schemes of the Papacy and the centralization of the Roman Church's ecclesiastical authority during the middle ages.  The Christian East, however, faced its own problems.  Orthodoxy became increasingly identified with Byzantine, i.e. Greek, nationalism and secular politics.  The Greek Orthodox also failed to assimilate the writings of Plato as well as they did those of Aristotle and a widespread hostility arose directed at Platonism and its various other philosophical attaches because Plato was considered incompatible with Christianity.  This produced what Sherrard terms the &quot;Platonic reaction&quot; of Gemistos Plethon and other Greek intellectuals who drew from ancient Greek philosophy and non-Christian eastern religions in order to construct a cosmology and vision of God opposed to Christian Orthodoxy.  This in fact spilled over into the West before the fall of the Byzantine Empire in 1453 through Venice's University of Padua.  Padua was freed from Papal control and the Inquisition by the Venetian city-state and thus became an early bastion of liberalism.  The intellectual output from Padua spread over the Western world during the Renaissance and back into Greece under Ottoman control over the next several centuries.  Sherrard thus attributes the Greek uprising in 1821 to Western secular, liberal, and at that time, nationalist tendencies, which themselves may have had their origins in the work of anti-Christian Greek idealists before Byzantium's final collapse.  In all, _The Greek East and Latin West_ is an interesting book about the East/West divide in Christendom, Greek philosophy and the nature of reality.  One of its strong points is that it goes deeper into the roots of contemporary apostasy and explains its causes better than other Orthodox convert authors who have written on this subject: Fr. Seraphim Rose, Dennis Engleman and Frank Schaeffer.	2004-07-01
US	35854103	R1DQA7E8PUKEBL	0900588241	908325351	The Crisis of the Modern World (Rene Guenon Works)	Books	4	35	41	N	N	Guenon's Brilliant Analysis of the Modern World.	Rene Guenon makes an excellent case when he presents the ontologically corrupt nature of our time in his _Crisis of the Modern World_.  Guenon's prose, as noted by other readers, translates horribly into English from the original French.  Never before have I read &quot;paragraph long&quot; sentences and Guenon is probably one of the few authors who uses semicolons and colons more frequently than periods in his ultra-dense prose.  His train of thought is difficult to follow but once concentrated upon closely it is apparent how insightful Guenon is explaining his subject.  He was an early twentieth century advocate of the &quot;perennialist&quot; philosophy: all of the world's genuine religious faiths share a common root and esoteric teachings that have been obscured by the process of time.  The modern world, whose historical origins lay during the Renaissance period, is the spiritual nadir of this time &quot;cycle&quot; according to Guenon's understanding of ancient Hindu mythology.  It is marked by a decline in the role of spiritual lites, both exoteric and esoteric religious devotion, and by the subsequent rise in the study of material, empirical sciences, and the ascendancy of secular humanist philosophy and the replacement of objective, transcendent religion with sentimental moralism.  Guenon's perspective is interesting because he defends the Catholic Church as Europe's sole remaining traditional body, despite dropping out of the Catholic fold.  Guenon instead affiliated himself with Freemasonry and the study of Hindu texts, and who later in life moved to Egypt and converted to Islam in order to live in a more traditional (i.e. non-Western) society.  Guenon decries the fact that the West has lost touch with its religious roots and is in the meantime corrupting the traditional eastern societies.  He also notes how the current, anti-traditional Western advocates of democracy and thus majority rule &quot;by the people&quot; are in fact in the minority if the Eastand its views are taken into consideration.  All mental activity and emphasis in the West have become geared to the external and purely rational, not toward the &quot;intellectual&quot; in the classic sense of the term.  Consider the apocalyptic nature of the pro-sports phenomenon: <br />&quot;There is no longer any place for intelligence, or anything else that is purely inward, for these are things that can neither be seen nor touched, that can neither be counted nor weighed; there is only place for outward action in all its forms, even those that are the most completely meaningless.  For this reason it should not be a matter of surprise that the Anglo-Saxon mania for sport gains ground day by day: the ideal of the modern world is the 'human animal' who has developed his muscular strength to the highest pitch; its heroes are athletes, even though they be mere brutes; it is they who awaken popular enthusiasm, and it is their exploits that command the passionate interest of the crowd.  A world in which such things are seen has indeed sunk low and seems near its end&quot; (92).<br />The only hope for the West, Guenon notes, is for a spiritual elite, an initiated aristocracy of sorts, to guide society into the next &quot;Golden Age.&quot;  However, the forces of the modern world prevent such a naturally dispersed and alienated group from organizing and turning back the clock.  Nevertheless, the modern world, built as it is on materialistic presuppositions, will experience a catastrophe (_Crisis_ was written in the 1920s before the first nuclear weapons were constructed) that will usher in the next &quot;cycle,&quot; the &quot;new heaven and new earth&quot; according to the Gospel.  With the proliferation of nuclear technology and the continuing Mideast conflict, Guenon remains to be proven wrong.  I disagree with Guenon's rejection of Catholicism for shady esotericism, Hinduism and Islam, but overall he reveals the modern world for the false, temporal sham that it really is.	2004-07-01
US	35854103	R1OQRM5P4LSQ9G	0766150763	879917697	Peter the Hermit	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Legacy of Peter the Hermit.	_Peter the Hermit_ by Daniel A. Goodsell is an oversize paperback reprint of a short book originally published in 1906.  When I first studied Western cultures back in high school, the teacher mentioned how the Peasants' Crusade was started by Peter the Hermit and Walter the Penniless--I knew this was going to be good--for all the wrong reasons.  Goodsell's book gives a brief outline of Peter's life and origins, the events surrounding his life and how Peter even influenced the course of Western Civilization.  The book begins by analyzing the popularity of pilgrimages that Western Christians made to the Holy Land during the Dark Ages.  Peter, a French hermit who may have been of either humble or noble origins, made the pilgrimage to Jerusalem during the 1000s when Palestine's Muslim rulers harassed pilgrims.  Goodsell speculates that Peter may have met with Pope Urban II who later proclaimed the Crusades for the stated reason of defending the Byzantine Empire from Muslim threats, although there were many other ulterior political reasons.  The pope definitely wanted to solidify his own authority over the Catholic Church in the West and keep warring Christian nobles in Europe from fighting amongst themselves.  Urban may also have taken this as an opportunity to bring the Greek Church under the thumb of Rome.  Before a cohesive military was ready to be assembled, Peter the Hermit stirred up the peasantry of France and Germany with speeches of apocalyptic battle and deliverance and unwisely proclaimed himself the military commander of a peasant mob.  Peter the Hermit, who is credited as a major factor in starting the Crusades, dressed in a black woolen cassock with a crucifix and rode on a donkey popularly thought to possess miraculous powers.  The first band of disorganized peasants was led by Walter the Penniless, who were ravaged by the Magyars and Bulgars before being crossed into Asia Minor and were promptly slaughtered by the Turks.  The same fate happed to Peter'scrowd when they entered into Asia Minor as well.  Peter escaped with his life and joined the First Crusade led by Godfrey de Boullion.  Godfrey's Crusaders surprisingly successful, considering the hardships these knights faced traveling through the Balkans, putting up with the treachery of Emperor Alexius, Turkish raids and fierce Muslim resistance at Antioch and Jerusalem.  Peter the Hermit later returned to France where he lived to a venerable age.  His body and tomb were dug up and destroyed during the upheaval of the French Revolution.  Goodsell actually congratulates Peter's legacy because if Europe did not embark on its ultimately unsuccessful Crusading venture, the West would not be as advanced as it is today because the Crusades brought new knowledge to Medieval Europe from the East.	2004-07-01
US	35854103	R38D734J2QCXR	091383615X	518422222	The Monk of Mount Athos: Staretz Selouan 1866-1938	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Staretz Silouan of Mt. Athos.	Archimandrite Sophrony's _The Monk of Mount Athos_ is a brief outline of the life and teachings of Russia's noted Athonite, Staretz (Elder) Silouan, along with being a primer on several aspects or Easter Orthodox spiritual experience.  Silouan was &quot;an unlettered young peasant&quot; from Russia who became a monk after he finished his service in the Imperial military in the late 1800s.  Through constant prayer and ascetic practice he attained a vision of Christ in the Uncreated Light.  Staretz Silouan was originally beset by demons that tempted him towards despair, however God informed the Staretz to &quot;keep your mind in hell, and despair not.&quot;  The meaning of this is to realize one's own sinfulness and strive to be humble, being down in the pit, but not despairing of God's love.  Sophrony's book also explains the cosmic significance of Christ's admonition to pray for the world and to pray for one's enemies.  The true Saint of God prays for the entire world unceasingly, a very difficult task to concentrate on.  An excellent, quick read on the life of a Staretz and Orthodox spirituality.	2004-06-17
US	35854103	R33FXCKB1W9PZP	0865274460	265617647	Sex & Character	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Otto Weininger: Masculine Form Versus Feminine Matter	_Sex and Character_ by Otto Weininger is an interesting, if odd, book on the ontological natures of male and female.  Weininger was a Jewish resident of Vienna during the first years of the 20th century (1903) when he wrote this book at the age of 23 and committed suicide shortly thereafter.  What makes this book historically significant is that several authors, such as Freud and James Joyce, noted it and drew upon it in their work.  Weininger's work was also known and praised (but doubtfully read) by Adolf Hitler.  Weininger himself derives his ideas from Plato, Goethe, Kant, and Schopenhauer, resting in the German Idealist tradition.  Weininger's basic premise is that the material world is a lower, feminine existence, and the higher world of ideal forms is masculine.  He rejects the Darwinian explanation of human origins, noting that mankind has fallen from the state of the \\"masculine\\" ideals, such as individuality, worth/value, love and will and opposes them to the organic, \\"feminine\\" phenomena like pleasure, sexual desire, limitation of consciousness and impulse.  Weininger concludes that women \\"do not actually exist\\" in an ontological sense because they belong to matter, which on a philosophic, esoteric level, has absolutely no meaning--only form gives a particle of matter or an idea a meaningful essence as a \\"thing-of-itself.\\"  His book is full of similar misogynist statements and he errs when he says that women do not have souls.  He examines the phenomenon of prostitution from an interesting methodology by comparing the ideal \\"Absolute Mother\\" with the \\"Absolute Prostitute.\\"  The Mother's function is to perpetuate and care for the race, while the Prostitute is a more subversive character \\"outside of the race\\" concerned only with sexual pleasure as an end in itself and not with procreation.  The Prostitute is a rationally unexplainable phenomenon amongst mankind something that is universal and whose origins do not necessarily have to do with economic disadvantages on the part of women.  Weininger's chapter on Judaism compares the Jewish people as a unit to the feminine impulse of \\"pairing\\": that of finding and arranging marriages and sexual unions.  The drive to pairing and matchmaking makes the Jews somewhat of a danger to Western (labeled \\"Aryan\\") man because it leans toward dissolution rather than construction, and therefore form.  There is also a total dichotomy between the cosmological outlooks of Christianity and Judaism and that in the future, according to Weininger, there will be only two choices for mankind, Christianity and Judaism.  Although noted for his \\"anti-Semitic\\" views, Weininger actually spends much of his book dealing with his philosophy of what constitutes a genius.  A genius is a man who has attained a sense of mystical oneness with the universe, being able to place himself in proper perspective with the cosmos and the rest of humanity.  For Weininger, genius actualizes itself in the fields of philosophy and art rather than science and mathematics, because philosophy and art deal with universal concepts whereas the sciences concern themselves only with equations and empirical data.  The greatest geniuses are the founders of religions such as Christ and the Buddha.  Regarding the question of women's emancipation, Weininger says that only the more masculine women are agitating for it as a political and social agenda.  The reason that the \\"feminist\\" movement has been so successful is simply because so many modern women are in fact simply biologically and spiritually masculine in character (and many men are correspondingly feminine).    _Sex and Character_ lacks internal cohesion in some points especially towards his conclusion, but it is altogether a welcome diversion from the PC feminist rhetoric so popular today.	2004-06-17
US	35854103	R2C8N5U0NX6QB3	0312224435	457687917	Masturbation: The History of a Great Terror	Books	4	28	33	N	N	The Masturbation Terror.	_Masturbation: The History of a Great Terror_ is an odd book about a collective medical, moral and religious fear from the 1700s until the second half of the 20th century.  Before the 18th century, masturbation was more or less ignored in moral debate by philosophers and theologians.  The Greek Cynic Diognes practiced masturbation in order to relieve himself of semen, not for sensual pleasure.  The authors cite a tract about Diognes by the physician Galen who noted that Diognes arranged to meet with a courtesan but then sent her away because his \\"hand was faster than you [the courtesan] in celebrating the bridal night.\\"  However, masturbation stands officially condemned as a mortal sin in the Roman Catholic catechism and moral theology because it uses the sex organs for self-gratification rather than procreation.  The 1723 publication of a pamphlet in England, \\"Onania,\\" ascribed numerous moral and physiological disorders associated with masturbation.  The author likened masturbation to the sin of Onan in Genesis.  Onan \\"spilled his seed\\" on the ground when he was to impregnate his dead brother's wife, which refers more to a violation of the levirate marriage arrangement and coitus interruptus than actual self-stimulation.  \\"Onania's\\" influence was expanded in decades afterward in the work of the Swiss physician Tissot.  Tissot wrote at length of the supposed medical dangers of masturbation and his ideas were expounded upon later in the Victorian Era.  The Victorians were notoriously uptight about sexual matters and quack doctors invented a plethora of anti-masturbatory devices such as penis rings, electric shockers and alarms to forcefully discourage the practice.  By the middle of the twentieth century the masturbation scare died off, as the authors note, as suddenly as it began.  I recommend this book, despite its liberal and anti-religious bias, as a strange read on a quack medical phenomenon.	2004-06-09
US	35854103	R2UZYE6CHMP5KQ	0964487349	116500264	The Dark Side of Christian History	Books	1	12	78	N	N	The Dark Side of Feminist Propaganda	Helen Ellerbe's _The Dark Side of Christian History_ is a typical liberal, New Age, feminist polemic.  Its central thesis is that the Orthodox Church, a Middle Eastern cult led by sexually repressed white males conspired to destroy spirituality, Goddess worship and cultural diversity from the time of the Roman Empire to the \\"Religious Right\\" in America today.  The book is endorsed by several heavy hitters in the feminist theological and literary scene: Alice Walker and Barbara G. Walker, the author of _The Woman's Encyclopedia of Myths and Secrets_, who calls Ellerbe's work \\"lucid, objective and accessible.\\"  The publisher is in fact \\"Morningstar and Lark,\\" which is no surprise because Morning Star is a translation for Lucifer and the doomed harlot of Babylon in several editions of the Bible.  The cover features a menacing design: a huge black cross superimposed on bright red flames and with \\"The Dark Side of Christian History\\" written in glowing orange letters.  Ellerbe begins with what she sees as the central problem with Christianity in its orthodox form, \\"the belief in a singular, solely masculine, authoritarian God who demands unquestioning obedience and who mercilessly crushes dissent.  Orthodox Christians believe that fear is essential to sustain what they perceive to be a divinely ordained hierarchical order in which a celestial God reigns singularly at a pinnacle, far removed from the earth and humankind.\\"  Ellerbe accredits sexual repression to Orthodox theologians such as St. Augustine and claims that earlier pagan religions gave free reign to sexuality.  This is not the case, however, because many pre-Christian ideologies (like the Stoics) argued for abstinence and containment of sexual drives.  Ellerbe also casts disdain upon the rather deterministic worldview of Christianity (especially St. Augustine) as a pessimistic, hierarchical system demanding obedience to unjust authority.  She cites environmental destruction, torture and execution of witches andsupposed heretics, missionaries destroying native religions, racism, anti-Semitism and sexism to Orthodox Christianity.  She especially dislikes the Protestant Reformation because it claimed that the world was under the control of the devil, while she ignores the liberalizing Protestant tendencies that arose after the seventeenth century.  Isaac Newton's philosophy of a universal mechanism constructed by God, and Darwin's theory of evolution and survival of the fittest are also to be considered suspect of Christian, patriarchal tyranny, according to Ellerbe.  Newtonian cosmology and Darwinian evolutionary theory presupposed a world/universe without any divine immanence--which is the logical consequence of the belief in the Christian objective, transcendent, Father God.  Ellerbe instead argues for what she believes to be a holistic pre-Christian pagan religion devoted to a monistic, feminine deity.  For Ellerbe (...)there is a total rejection of the reality of life's struggles and the natural, biological differences between sexes and races which are a stamp of fallen Man.  I recommend this book for anyone who wants to understand the total hate the New Age has for Christian theology and history, and for feminist rejection of the single unifying factor of Western Civilization.  (...)	2004-06-09
US	35854103	RU8ZPZDQZT5O	1883511062	37825854	Beyond politics: A meta-historical view	Books	3	14	21	N	N	A Metahistorical View.	In a European history class I took we learned to avoid something that was previously unfamiliar to myself: _metahistory_, or the practice of viewing history through one lens.  The teacher asked us to give an example of metahistory and a student said \\"a monk keeping records.\\"  Sure enough, when I first got Solange Hertz's _Beyond Politics: A Metahistorical View_ I noticed a small clip art of a monk holding a book open printed on the title page.  Hertz's book is probably the most radical, bizarre thing I have ever read.  It is basically about how the vast majority of the Roman Catholic Church has fallen away since Vatican II during the early 1960s.  The world, nay, the universe, is under the dominion of Lucifer, the fallen Angel of Light (Blake's painting of Lucifer in his original glory is featured as the cover illustration).  The Roman Church has fallen into apostasy because of the machinations of various factors: philosophical modernism, political democracy, modern science and technology, occult doctrines filtering into Catholicism's religious outlook, and the entire anti-family, pro-contraception movement propagated since the 1800s.  I never thought I would read a book that unequivocally states the following.<br />- The state is to be subservient to the Church.  This is probably the most shocking and offensive to most readers.  This does not mean that the state is to be dictated to by the Church, but the state needs to accommodate itself to the interests of the Church of Rome.<br />- The new Catholic mass is a \\"Black Mass\\" because of the removal of the specific Latin references to transubstantiation, and the pontificates of John XXIII, Paul VI and John Paul II are deceptive of the Church.<br />- The founding of the United States of America and its Constitution were totally Luciferian because it outlined a separation of Church and state and it did not incorporate any references to Christ, to the Church or to the family as a social unit.<br />- The sun revolves around the earth.  Hertz attacks Galileo's defiant and elitist attitude because Galileo relied upon mathematical equations to show how the earth revolves around the sun rather than simple common sense.  Plato, Aristotle and the Church officially taught that the earth is the center of the universe until challenged in the 1600s and relied upon direct, empirical observation instead of mathematics.  Hertz compares Galileo's work to a \\"trick of arithmetic instead of mirrors.\\"  Galileo's Heliocentric universe is Luciferian because it places the sun (a created source of light, as Lucifer was in his original glory) at the center of the universe.  Hertz also defends the verdict of the Church's Inquisition in this matter.<br />- Hell is literally at the center of the earth, where matter is the most dense and the fallen angels are held in bondage, based on a reading of Biblical texts.  Thus Heaven is literally in outer space beyond reach of human spacecraft and telescopes.<br />- Electricity is Satanic, illuminating the world with a false generated light, which in fact is Satan's darkness.  Hertz believes electricity was in use by occult illuminates who built Atlantis and the Tower of Babel and was temporarily lost to most of humanity after the Flood and the overthrow of Babel.  Hertz says the Bible does not \\"mention sizzling\\" when the circuits were burnt out during the Flood but concludes these technologies were in use since the beginning of time.<br />- Many noted scientists like Isaac Newton, Galileo, Thomas Edison, Nikola Tesla and Albert Einstein were occult luminaries doing the bidding of secret societies controlled by Satan.<br />- God cursed the Jews who did not aid the founding of the Original Church as Satan's chosen people.  Hertz divides the religious aspect of the world into two categories: Christians (i.e. the obscure Sedevaticanist group Hertz is in) and Jews (who reject Christ as God).<br />- The European nations who converted to Catholicism are descended in part from the Aryans and the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel, who were dispersed when the Kingdom of Israel was dismantled by the Assyrians a number of centuries before Christ.  Hertz considers France \\"God's country\\" whose monarchy was under the special protection of God.<br />- The Enlightenment and Revolutionary slogans \\"Liberty, Equality and Fraternity\\" constitute a satanic counter-Trinity to God.<br />- Protestantism is a covert form of Judaism because it places emphasis on the Hebrew Masoretic text, it does not revere the Saints or the Virgin Mary, and it denies the doctrine of transubstantiation, among other reasons.<br />- The official American holiday of Thanksgiving is a Judaic rebirth of the feast of Tabernacles, which likewise has no connection with Catholicism and is essentially a celebration of gluttony.<br />- The apocalyptic \\"Abomination of Desolation\\" in the Holy Place (the Christian family) is birth control.  According to Hertz, the Natural Planning Method officially endorsed by the Church in <br />_Humanae Vitae_ is an occult, Manichean, Judaic practice.  Because contraception actually prevents a new soul from being formed, it is in fact worse than abortion or murder, which merely kill a body but allow the soul to return to God.<br />- The original sin of Adam and Eve was sexual in nature and involved them \\"being like God\\" because they wanted to control the amount of children that they wanted to bear.  Hertz concludes, \\"the sexual union of man and woman, meant by God to produce only life, was instrumental in making life on earth a living death.\\"<br />I have plenty of contentions with many of the above points made by this book.  However, _Beyond Politics_ is an interesting read because of its unilateral condemnation of any notions of secular utopianism and political democracy and its wild method of interpreting history as the conflict between the revealed truth of Christ and the occult doctrines of human pseudo-autonomy inspired by Satan.<br />Also recommended:_Secret Societies and Psychological Warfare_ by Michael A. Hoffman II, _The Secret World Government_ by Cherep-Spridovich and _Secret Societies and Subversive Movements_ by Nesta Webster.	2004-06-06
US	35854103	R24KMY17YSZS	0330487884	641321782	Why Angels Fall: A Journey Through Orthodox Europe from Byzantium to Kosovo	Books	2	13	18	N	N	On Angels' Wings.	_Why Angels Fall: A Journey through Orthodox Europe from Byzantium to Kosovo_ by English journalist Victoria Clark is an openly unobjective description of various elements in Orthodoxy from a \\"non-practicing\\" Catholic.  That said, this is otherwise an interesting book on Orthodoxy in Europe.  The cover reflects the author's rather negative tone: it features an illustration Blessed Pasius Velikovsky laying helplessly on a bed.  Her title, \\"Why Angels Fall,\\" refers to what she claims is Orthodoxy's greatest evil--affiliating itself with ethnic nationalism, anti-Westernism and in some cases anti-Semitism.  It was considered the heresy of \\"Philytism.\\"  Clark considers this \\"base\\" because it tends to resist the global hegemony of liberalism and feminism.  Her smug, condescending worldview makes itself readily apparent when she starts her narrative by slamming Mt. Athos for its thousand year rule of totally banning women from entering.  Clark describes a handful of bishops, monks, nuns and various other prelates but mostly highlights the negative impressions they made upon her, usually their zenophobic, misogynist, anti-Western, anti-Semitic statements.  The Orthodox clergy are portrayed largely as ignorant, racist, sexist barbarians.  She is also rather wary of Eastern Europe's monastic revival as giving ethnic tensions a renewed vigor, although she praises the spirituality of the Hesychasts who practice Orthodoxy's tradition of interior prayer.  This book is one of the few sources of information I've run across about the political involvement of Orthodox prelates in the post-communist era.  The Orthodox world has been shrinking between Western and Islamic expansion on both sides but it holds onto a considerable amount of turf today and Clark divides her book according to her travels in Orthodoxy's bastions: Mt. Athos, Serbia, Macedonia, Greece, Romania, Russia, Cyprus and Istanbul.  Orthodoxy has nothing to fear from critical books like this.  Its ultimate victory willbe moral and eschatological (On Angels' Wings!), even if it is doomed to fall as a political authority like the Christian emperors of Rome, Constantinople and Moscow.<br />Also recommended: _The Black Hundred_ by Walter Laqueur about the post-communist political right in Russia, and _The Orthodox Church_ by Timothy Ware for a decent outline of Church history from a genuine Orthodox (Ware's a British convert) perspective.	2004-06-03
US	35854103	R7AB73B79Q9FP	0814730604	23321986	The Occult Roots of Nazism: Secret Aryan Cults and Their Influence on Nazi Ideology	Books	5	86	96	N	N	The Occult Roots of Nazism.	_The Occult Roots of Nazism: Secret Aryan Cults and Their Influence on Nazi Ideology_ by Nicholas Goodrick-Clark is an intriguing academic study on the pre-Nazi occult scene in Germany.  The cover features a rather threatening Thule Gesellschaft symbol: a sword and swastika wrapped in laurels and a halo of emanating light.  Many of the occult practices described in this book--palmistry, crystals, secret orders, hidden knowledge, spirit guides, channeling, tarot cards, fortune telling, astrology--have retained their popularity today in the New Age movement. What's particularly interesting about Goodrick-Clarke's work is he compares the Ariosophists List and Lanz to the ancient duelist philosophies of Gnosticism and Manicheanism in their extreme division of reality into two eternally conflicting forces of good (Aryans) and evil (Jews).  Goodrick-Clarke begins his discussion by going back to the writings of Madame Helena Blavatsky, her two books _The Secret Doctrine_ and _Isis Unvieled_, and her occult Theosophical Society.  Her books propagated a form of anti-rationalism and anti-scientism, instead relying upon supposed revealed secret doctrines by hidden masters in Tibet.  Blavatsky believed there was a series of seven \\"root races\\" that lived on earth, of which the Aryan race was the fifth.  Other notables connected with the occult at this time included Annie Besant, Charles Leadbeater and Bulwer Lytton.  Lytton wrote in his work _The Coming Race_ of a subterranean race that was to give mankind new enlightenment and psychic abilities.  Ariosophy, the so-called wisdom of the Aryans, developed from theosophical ideas and the general occult subcultures of the time.  The political and motivation for the rise of occultism in Germany and Austria was the situation of the Austro -Hungarian Empire and the Hapsburg monarchy.  Prussia had permanently excluded Austria from a role in a united German state by Bismark's military victories before 1871.  However the Austrian Empire encompassed not only Hungary but also many nationalities of Slavic, non-German descent, in addition to Jewish minorities.  The status of Germans as a whole in Austria was tenuous and the conservative elements of the populace were more inclined to fall for unorthodox metaphysical beliefs that would allow them to fight against the tides of political liberalism in the Empire.  Hitler, it is to be noted, was not actually born in \\"Germany\\" proper but in the Austro-Hungarian Empire near the German border.  Goodrick-Clarke takes care to note that Hitler despised the Hapsburg monarchy, while his sectarian occultist predecessors admired it as a bastion of German mystical/mythical tradition.  In Vienna, during the late 1800s and early 1900s before World War I, two radical German nationalists, Guido von List and Adolf Lanz (who self-styled himself with the aristocratic title of von Liebenfels) researched and published a considerable amount of literature dealing with Germany's so-called repressed history.  List believed that ancient, pagan, pre-Christian Germany was a center of culture kept alive by a secret order of initiates, the Armanenschaft, who established a decentralized aristocratic hierarchy and kept the German race pure through eugenic practices.  Oddly enough, their secret doctrine, according to List, was encoded and given to the Rabbis for safekeeping in the form of the Cabala, in order to preserve it from Christian destruction.  Lanz, whose _Ostara_ pamphlets Hitler is likely to have read, was an ex-Cistercian monk who joined the pan-German movement.  Lanz made an extensive study of ancient civilizations and the Old Testament and concluded that the ancestors of the German race lived on Atlantis, which sank, and spread to Northern Europe and the Middle East.  The supposed Aryan Middle Easterners founded the great civilizations of Egypt and the Fertile Crescent, including the Hebrews.  The Hebrew Scripture, according to Lanz's analysis, was a history of the attempt for Aryans to preserve their race.  He interpreted the fall as the miscegenation between Aryans and lesser races.  Lanz believed Jesus (\\"Frauja\\") was an Aryan savior and the medieval Christian character of Europe, with its monasteries and nobility, embodied the Aryan ideal.  He believed Alexandria, known for its library and scholarship, was the center of gravity of ancient Ariosophy.  The first bishop to convert the Germans to Christianity was Ulifas, an Arian bishop from Alexandria, thus Lanz equates \\"Aryanism\\" with the Christian heresy of \\"Arianism,\\" or disbelief in the deity of Christ. The Ariosophists and pan-Germanists believed the only way to preserve Germany's Aryan past was to fight against modern liberal tendencies and take aggressive action against those corrupting Germany's traditional landscape: the Jews, communists and Slavs.  Several quasi-Masonic lodges were founded throughout Germany and Austria before, during and after WWI.  Among these were the Thule Society and the Germannorden.  There is some speculation that the Thule Society, its membership being a collection of well-educated professionals and aristocrats, founded the German Workers Party (DAP) as an activist political party to attract a mass membership.  Hitler was sent as a spy to the DAP to survey its activities.  Hitler later joined this party, which eventually renamed itself the German National Socialist Party (NASDAP or Nazi Party).  Although Hitler never mentioned Lanz by name in any of his recorded words, Goodrick-Clarke attributes this fact to Hitler not wanting to call attention to where he got his ideas during his formative years in Vienna.  Although Hitler did not have much of an interest in actual occult practices, his chief of the SS, Heinrich Himmler, did.  Himmler consulted a former mental asylum inmate, Karl Maria Willigut (a.k.a. Weisthor), who claimed to possess an ancient ancestral knowledge of the German race.  Himmler constructed a \\"Nazi Vatican\\" at a castle in Wewelsburg where neo-pagan ceremonies for the Nazi SS were held.  Goodrick-Clarke's final appendix to this study is an examination of the mythology Nazi Germany's meteoric rise and fall from an obscure party from the 1920s to a totalitarian government that had Europe from the English Channel to the Caucasus Mountains under its thumb (albeit briefly).  A considerable amount of literature has been published in various countries about how the Nazi Party's rise to power was aided by supernatural and demonic forces.	2004-06-03
US	35854103	R2NR9K9O0WCTEV	1585092355	768846420	A Survey of Sex and Celibacy in Religion	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Strange Polemic Against Roman Catholic Clerical Celibacy.	Longworth's _A Survey of Sex and Celibacy in Religion from Ancient to Modern Times_ is an unusual book, making a confused attempt (published in 1945) to trace the relationship between sex and religion to prehistory.  The author's stated goal is to debunk the Roman Catholic Church's doctrine of clerical celibacy, which he finds an offensive, oppressive and backwards relic from the Middle Ages.  Longworth is English, Protestant and somewhat of a modernist.  The original title of this book was in fact _The Devil a Monk Would Be_.  According to Longworth, the first humans worshipped the sexual powers, the complementary roles of male and female, in prehistoric times through various symbols standing for male and female genitalia.  Phallic worship corresponded with the \\"solar cult\\" and was dominated by the practice of human sacrifice.  The \\"lunar cult,\\" focused on the night, the time of love, was characterized by orgies.  Longworth praises the temples of ancient Greece as the epitome of human, healthy, earthly spirituality as far as the art of love is concerned, almost a type of evolutionary advancement from the earlier tribal cults with bloodthirsty deities demanding bloody sacrifices.  He moves on to examine his apparent favorite subject: erotic symbolism found in the medieval Catholic churches of the British Isles.  Many churches had carvings and engravings of scenes of clergyman, monks and nuns committing sins of lust, along with phallic and female symbolism.  Longworth attributes the Roman Catholic \\"cult of the Virgin Life\\" to the \\"crazed ravings\\" of the earliest Christian celibate hermit ascetics like St. Anthony of Egypt, St. Simeon Styletes and Ireland's St. Kevin.  He claims these hermits were either insane or eventually went insane from living by themselves in isolated, desolate locations (like Egypt's desert caves and catacombs and Ireland's western coastal cliffs).  He examines the phenomenon of walling up anchorites to the sides of churches, living totally imprisoned within a cell until they died which was common in England during the Middle Ages.  The Trappists and Carthusians were the strictest monastic branches, imposing a hermit-like existence on their members even though they lived in a formal religious community.  Longworth also attributes moral issues, such as the official sanctioning of prostitution by several noted saints including St. Augustine and Thomas Aquinas.  There is also a discussion of whether or not Roman Catholic countries are more or less moral than Protestant countries.  Longworth agrees that Ireland is a moral country in the realm of sexual morality, but this is attributed to the fact that Ireland is a temperate northern European country with a large sturdy peasant population.  The southern Mediterranean countries, with their \\"swarthy\\" inhabitants, are looser in their morality according to Longworth, while the \\"yellow, brown and black\\" races that dwell elsewhere around the globe do not have \\"morality\\" in the Western sense.  Longworth also says that it is wrong to measure the standards of morality of non-white peoples according to white norms.  Thus, Longworth's book would have been considered progressive in his time seventy years ago but it appears archaic and even racist today (unless the reader takes it as an example of cultural relativism).  He argues that the Roman Catholic Church should abolish the discipline (however loosely followed) of clerical celibacy and auricular confession (which Longworth attributes as a cause of yet more sexual immorality) in order to make it more acceptable for reunion with the Protestant churches.  He also argues that the Church should also abolish the doctrine of Purgatory as well (which I don't personally believe in) because it held many monks in fear of worse punishment after death than anything they could suffer in life.  Longworth misses the most important point of Purgatorial sufferings however: its temporary, no matter how much a soul suffers there they eventually get out and go to heaven, which sounds much more liberal than the Protestant or Orthodox teaching.  Longworth is more or less correct when he says that celibacy became more of an ends to itself rather than a means in the Catholic Church and that celibacy for all clergymen was not required by the early Church (St. Peter had a mother in law).  But Longworth's modernist and anti-Catholic bias show because he uses instances of human failings and sheer stupidity in some cases to try to totally discredit the world's largest branch of Christendom.	2004-05-29
US	35854103	R2OILL8018P4LR	0802840647	490663879	The Myth of Democracy	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Brilliant Elucidation of Democracy's Luciferian Rebellion.	Tage Lindbom was born in 1909 in Sweden and studied at Stockholm University.  He was one of many intellectuals and architects of Sweden's welfare state (his Ph.D. was on unions and labor relations).  Involved with liberal politics much of his life, he began to question secular democracy, publishing several books in Swedish on the incompatibility between secular democracy and traditional religion.  His _Myth of Democracy_ is actually three essays, &quot;The Myth of Democracy,&quot; &quot;The Ideology of Socialism,&quot; and &quot;Lucifer.&quot;  They basically outline components of the great drama of this world: man's rebellion against God.<br />&quot;The Myth of Democracy&quot; defines what &quot;democracy&quot; actually means.  It comes from the Greek _demos_, &quot;the people&quot; which sometimes meant the common mass of the populace.  Lindbom discusses how &quot;the rule of the people&quot; developed as a myth, enshrouded by its own pseudo-mystique, from the various intellectual fashions that tended to subvert Christian orthodoxy.  He goes back as far as medieval nominalism as set forth in the writings of William of Occam.  The tendency of nominalist thought was that external reality was composed of many individual parts (_multiversum_), which did not assimilate them into a macrocosmic whole, which was the earlier disposition of orthodox Christian philosophy.  In this section Lindbom focuses his attention on two prominent intellectuals who appear to give a totally subjective, humanistic worldview the most &quot;transcendent&quot; and &quot;mythical&quot; justification: Jean Jacques Rousseau and Martin Heidegger.  Rousseau developed his concept of government of society as a &quot;social contract&quot; between the rulers and ruled.  The government was supposed to embody the people as a whole and conform itself to the people's desires.  However, the term &quot;people&quot; may not be the most appropriate because it does not accommodate any who might be opposed to the social contract set forth by the majority.  If there are any that do not follow Rousseau's &quot;general will&quot; of the people, they need to be ostracized, isolated, or even eliminated.  Rousseau believed that better education (propaganda) would illuminate the people to combat oppressive structures, and also hoped humanity, as a whole, would recover Paradise, a primeval idyllic state of social harmony and happiness.  Heidegger, writing in the twentieth century, actually absolutized the mere fact that humans exist in his tome _Being and Time_ and perceive the world around them in different ways.  With this system of philosophy there can be no absolute truth, no overarching authority because human experience is all and every individual perceives reality differently.  Therefore what is best for the majority is to be elevated to the status of man's highest goal, not metaphysical belief which cannot be proved on any physical, empirical scale.<br />&quot;The Ideology of Socialism&quot; examines the presuppositions of Marx and how socialism originated during the Industrial Revolution.  Industrialism, as Marx correctly pointed out, disestablished the older, agrarian, decentralized society of Europe.  The capitalist business owners exploited the new industrial wage-labor class and Marx called for revolution to overthrow this system and establish a state that would accommodate the needs of the proletariat, the last remaining social class of any consequence.  Marx saw anything connected to the old order, such as Christianity, as worthless and to be discarded as a relic of the past.  The new &quot;classless society&quot; was the ultimate outcome of an inevitable, pre-determined historical process.  Marx's dialectic of history whereby human phenomena were mere manifestations of man's economic state served as a replacement of traditional religion.  Marx's ideas of oppressor-oppressed still influence the egalitarian radical left today even though Marxism in its &quot;orthodox&quot; form has long been discarded.<br />\\"Lucifer\\" is a more openly religious attempt to answer the questions of why human history has taken the course it has and why secular democracy is the most revered form of government in the aftermath of World War II.  Lucifer (a Latin term meaning \\"Bearer of Light\\" or \\"Enlightened One.\\") tempted man in the Garden in two ways.  One was serious enough-Lucifer offered material pleasure and comfort (\\"the fruit tastes good.\\")  His other transgression was what brought the order of sin and death to humanity: \\"you shall be like God.\\"  It was not the fact that man ate of the fruit that brought spiritual death (God said Adam would die the day he ate of the fruit, but this death God warned of was spiritual, not physical, because Adam went on to live for another 900 years!)  It was man's refusal to acknowledge his own sin and instead blaming his wife (herself a gift from God) and she blamed the serpent (a beast of the field which God also gave).  This is the reason for secularism: a world without God, and man's collective will, the &quot;Human Spirit&quot; enshrined as a deity.	2004-05-29
US	35854103	RERX9Q950CN84	0819176680	902073248	Utopia, The Perennial Heresy	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Tom Molnar's Exposition of the Perennial Heresy.	Thomas Molnar's _Utopia: The Perennial Hesesy_ explains the fundamental errors and wickedness of utopian thought.  Utopianism applies to the idea that mankind will experience a state of bliss and harmony in this world, in this life, after certain things happen as a result of a determined process of history.  Although _The Perennial Heresy_ was published in 1967, it still remains relevant to today, especially because of Molnar's insight as to how improved communications technology (he mentions the first computers in development at that time) would appear to validate utopian prospects of a united, mechanized mass-humanity.  Religious utopians, like numerous heretical offshoots in the Middle Ages and Reformation period, believed Christ's return was eminent and would establish a worldly rule of saints before the final judgement.  Secular utopians, on the other hand, believe a utopia is the inevitable outcome of material, social, economic, psychological, evolutionary (and as in the case of Nazism, racial) forces working toward a climax of history where all men would live in harmony.  The foremost and most influential utopian theorists were of course Rousseau, Marx, Engels, Condorcet, Saint-Simon, the Gnostics, Joachim of Fiore, and in the religio-evolutionary sphere, Telihard de Chardin.  Chardin, a Jesuit paleontologist, wrote of the evolution of God, mankind and Christ into a cosmic whole, an &quot;Omega point&quot; where mankind would realize his Godhood.  Marx and Engels wrote of the eradication of religion (along with other societal institutions like government and the arts) in society as a precursor and necessity for the coming Communist collective paradise.  A utopia, a literal &quot;nowhere,&quot; implies an end to progress, and development.  Man, a finite, material, temporary being has replaced the transcendent, immortal God as the repository of Divinity.  The highest authority in human affairs would be recognized as the State (in power because it supposedly represents Rousseau's &quot;will of the people&quot;) to which all must share allegiance.  Any who do not comply must be forced out or eliminated.  There is no conception of freedom of choice or independent action outside of the boundaries set by the State.  The &quot;heresy&quot; of utopian thought is essentially the denial of free will, the replacement of faith (something that is not materially certain, or can be proved so) with a rigid historical, dialectical determinism.  Since religion, especially the Christian conception of God, is unacceptable for social progressivism, it must be openly abolished (Revolutionary France, Soviet Union) or subverted to accommodate for the interests of the State (Western democracies).  Molnar labels utopianism &quot;evil,&quot; and goes to a length to justify that harsh appellation.  Utopianism entitles a control upon, if not an outright war against, human nature, which is and remains imperfect in this time, in this life.  The entire experience of human existence, embracing family life, reproduction, race, nationality, culture, religion, geography, climate differences, scarcity of resources, division of labor, social deviance, etc., negates against utopian sameness, unity and conformity to a collective mass.  Indeed, utopian thought, even in its present American technical cybernetic variety, relies upon ancient Gnostic beliefs (a topic to which Molnar constantly refers) in a universal pantheistic monad-a oneness of God, physical material, humanity and its intellect coalescing at the culmination of time.  It is totally opposed to the doctrine of the Trinity, of God's three Persons of one Essence, Father, Son and Holy Sprit, which created the cosmos as it exists and operates.  The utopian dream of a perfect society and perfect world is a revolt against _being_, against existence itself.presents Rousseau's &quot;will of the people&quot;) to which all must share allegiance.  Any who do not comply must be forced out or eliminated.  There is no conception of freedom of choice or independent action outside of the boundaries set by the State.  The &quot;heresy&quot; of utopian thought is essentially the denial of free will, the replacement of faith (something that is not materially certain, or can be proved so) with a rigid historical, dialectical determinism.  Since religion, especially the Christian conception of God, is unacceptable for social progressivism, it must be openly abolished (Revolutionary France, Soviet Union) or subverted to accommodate for the interests of the State (Western democracies).  Molnar labels utopianism &quot;evil,&quot; and goes to a length to justify that harsh appellation.  Utopianism entitles a control upon, if not an outright war against, human nature, which is and remains imperfect in this time, in this life.  The entire experience of human existence, embracing family life, reproduction, race, nationality, culture, religion, geography, climate differences, scarcity of resources, division of labor, social deviance, etc., negates against utopian sameness, unity and conformity to a collective mass.  Indeed, utopian thought, even in its present American technical cybernetic variety, relies upon ancient Gnostic beliefs (a topic to which Molnar constantly refers) in a universal pantheistic monad-a oneness of God, physical material, humanity and its intellect coalescing at the culmination of time.  It is totally opposed to the doctrine of the Trinity, of God's three Persons of one Essence, Father, Son and Holy Sprit, which created the cosmos as it exists and operates.  The utopian dream of a perfect society and perfect world is a revolt against _being_, against existence itself.	2004-05-15
US	35854103	RYMKYMLAAXLCW	1565633652	152429991	Heresies: Heresy and Orthodoxy in the History of the Church	Books	5	20	24	N	N	A History of Heresies in the Christian Church.	_Heresies: Heresy and Orthodoxy in the History of the Church_ by Harold O. J. Brown is an extensive overview of the numerous doctrinal disputes within Christendom from the early Church to the present.  Brown writes from the perspective of a conservative Lutheran, which determines the somewhat narrow point of view in some parts of this study.  However, the good in this book far outweighs its negativity.  Part of the problem when writing about heresy and heresies is the difficulty when defining exactly who the \\"heretics\\" are, what doctrines and dogmas are acceptable and which ones are unacceptable and to be categorized as \\"heretical.\\"  Many ultramontane Catholics will consider the entire Protestant Reformation heretical, while conservative, and fundamentalist/evangelical Protestants of various denominations view the central tenants of Catholicism (Mariology, Papal infallibility, literal transubstantiation of the Eucharist, etc).  Also, where does Eastern Orthodox Christendom fit in?<br />The key difference between the ancient heretics and theological liberals of today, notes Brown, is the ancients sincerely believed what they espoused as Christian truth while today's skeptics are wishy-washy nay-sayers.  Brown begins by noting the Greek/Hellenistic and Roman/Latin influence in the theological teachings of early Christianity.  Many disputes, the most fundamental being the nature of God, the Trinity and the Person of Christ, were outside the material covered in the canonical biblical writings. Instead, theologians used Greek philosophical concepts and complicated language to explain Christian doctrinal concepts as they developed over time.  This tendency (beginning with St. Paul) has been heavily criticized by moderns, (both liberal and evangelical/fundamentalist reductionists) as taking away from the original, Semitic contents of the Bible.  The first major heresies, in the second, third and fourth centuries AD were those of Gnosticism and Arianism.  Gnosticism was a loose collection of different sects teaching elaborate, dualistic cosmologies, and believing Christ was a being who illuminated mankind and brought freedom from the supposedly evil god of the Old Testament (Demiurge) creator of the material world.  Gnosticism and its \\"knowledge (gnosis) falsely so called\\" was refuted by Ireneaus of Lyons, one of the first great theologians.  Indeed, the process of formulating \\"Orthodox\\" Christian doctrine has been somewhat of a \\"dialectical process,\\" as another reviewer notes, of an arising heresy followed by an Orthodox response and official definition.  Ironically, the two other greatest defenders of Orthodox Christianity during the early Church period, Tertullian and Origen, later left the Church (Tertullian) and promoted some questionable doctrines, as Origen did when he speculated on the pre-existence of human souls.  The Arians (named after Arius, a renegade priest) were a splinter group from Orthodox Christianity who believed that the Jesus Christ, the Son, was the greatest created being of God the father-not of the same nature as the Father. Constantine summoned the first Ecumenical Council to promote Christian unity at Nicea, and formally defined God the Father, Son and Holy Spirit as all different persons of the same God.  However, Constantine himself and a number of his successors tended to support the Arian position.  Almost the sole defender of Christian Orthodoxy, St. Athanasius of Alexandria, led the battle at Nicea-Athanasius _contra mundi_, i.e., against the world.  <br />The second phase concerned the nature of Christ and spawned the controversies of Nestorius, Patriarch of Constantinople and the Monophysites of Alexandria.  Nestorius focused on the human nature of Christ and did not want the use of \\"Theotokos\\" (strictly translated from Greek to English means \\"bearer of God,\\" NOT \\"mother of God.\\") as a formal title for the Virgin Mary.  The prelates of Alexandria, notably Cyril, who stressed Christ's divine nature,opposed Nestorius.  A subsequent council condemned Nestorius.  His followers broke off to form the \\"Nestorian\\" Church or Church of the East, which spread from Mesopotamia and Persia even as far as China by its missionaries.  The next controversy arose during the fifth century and centered on around the political posturing of the Empire's four great cities: Rome, Constantinople, Alexandria and Antioch.  The primary dispute was between Antioch's theologians and Alexandria.  Rome, Brown notes, at this time remained the most doctrinally Orthodox as it was removed from Christianity's center of gravity in the Greek speaking empire during this period, lacking the cosmopolitan theological innovators of the East.  The outcome of this fourth council, Chalcedon, according to Brown, tended to lean back towards the \\"Nestorian\\" view of Christ with its doctrine Christ's human and divine nature.  Alexandria, which triumphed during the early stages of this conflict, suffered a reversal.  The Egyptian (Coptic) Church broke off from the official Church of the Roman Empire and Constantinople, forming the Oriental Orthodox Church, which has its branches in Egypt, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Syria, Armenia and India. However, Nestorians and Monophysites (who maintained that Christ only had a divine nature) remain within Orthodox theology, unlike the Gnostics, Arians and the later Manicheans, Bogomils and Cathars.<br />During the Middle Ages, the Roman Catholic Church and the Greek Orthodox Church experienced a schism because of theological and political controversies.  The Roman Papacy assumed the status of a temporal power in Italy.  The worldly corruption of the Roman Church, its sale of indulgences, and it's doctrine of literal transubstantiation officially formulated during the 1200s all gave impetus for the coming Protestant Reformation of the early 1500s.  But after the Reformation, who is to be considered a heretic?  Brown admits that it is much easier for a Protestant polemicist to use the invective \\"antichrist\\" to describe the pope rather than \\"heretic.\\"  Here is where the shortfalls of a Protestant outlook come into play.  It ignores the Orthodox Church, which kept the original faith \\"once delivered to the saints.\\"  Brown also notes the main issue with \\"Pietism\\" that arose during the 1700s in England and Germany.  Pietism is doctrinally orthodox, but places its emphasis on personal conversion and personal faith experience.  In the long run it looses its objectivity when it comes to actual doctrine and polemics against attacks on Christianity by today's forces of secularism and liberalism.	2004-05-11
US	35854103	R8VAXXFDKZBWT	0195004566	353994617	The Pursuit of the Millennium: Revolutionary Millenarians and Mystical Anarchists of the Middle Ages, Revised and Expanded Edition	Books	5	18	23	N	N	The [misguided] pursuit of the Millennuim.	\\"O just God, mighty judge, the game was not fairly divided between them and us.  Their satiety was our famine; their merriment was our wretchedness; their jousts and tournaments were our torments...Their feasts, delectations, pomps, vanities excesses and superfluities were our fastings, penalties, wants, calamities, and spoilation.  The love ditties and laughter of their dances were our mockery, our groanings and remonstrations.\\"<br />The Chancellor of Cambridge, John Bromyard, wrote this quote in a sermon, cited in Norman Cohn's intriguing study of revolutionary millennial movements.  It illustrates the feeling of resentment toward the established Church in Europe and aristocracy in Europe in the middle ages.  It also reminds one of similar social protest movements from whatever party throughout history.  Popular resentment arose during the Middle Ages, with legitimate grievances, whenever the stable social order rooted in feudalism and economic stability was threatened.  Cohn's defines \\"the Millennium,\\" which medieval heretical sects and religious radicals strove for as collective, terrestrial, imminent, total, and miraculous.  The Millennium was a hypothetical Kingdom of Heaven/God on Earth where the faithful would enjoy material wealth in this world in a state of total equality and oneness with nature after some cataclysmic battle with the forces of evil.  This tradition arose from the obvious sources: the biblical texts of Daniel along with certain scattered Old Testament prophecies; and from the words of Jesus and Paul in the New Testament, and in particular the Book of Revelation (the Apocalypse) of St. John.  Similar prophetic traditions developed in the medieval period from the Sibylline Oracles, which were Roman texts purporting to reveal the appearance of Christ, and blatant forgeries attributed to either Old Testament prophets, the Apostles or authoritative Fathers of the Church (such as the apocryphal Fifth Epistle of Clement).  A popular legend in particular was the second coming of the Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire who would abolish poverty, reunify Germany and destroy the Muslims who threatened the frontiers of Christendom at that time.  Frederick II and Charlemagne were two popular emperors in the medieval eschatological imagination.  The notorious first \\"Peasants Crusade\\" was stirred up and (more or less led) by Peter the Hermit, a wandering mystic who visited the Holy Land.  Some secular/lay religious ascetic groups, notably the Flagellants, believed that their self-inflicted sufferings were equal to that of Christ and that they were atoning for the sins of the people in order to stave off the Black Death which was ravaging Europe at that time.  Several sects, like those of the Adamites in Bohemia, Thomas Muntzer and the Anabaptists led by John of Leyden went on terrorist rampages to overthrow the surrounding secular and Church authorities in order to establish a reign of the saints on earth.  Muntzer and the Anabaptists called for a holy war to cleanse the earth of sinful humanity, and the common ownership of property. John of Leyden instituted a Soviet-style reign of terror in Muster, a town in Germany.  Inspired by religious fanaticism against what he perceived as the apostate churches of Rome and Luther, Leyden burned all Church books except for the Bible, declared communal ownership of property, mandated polygamy and forced the excess women of the town to become extra wives for the men of the city.  His quasi-socialistic experiment failed when his followers were starved out the soldiers of the local Catholic archbishop and local lords and the city was taken over.  The most interesting category of religious renegades that Cohn outlines are the \\"mystical anarchists\\" or Brethren of the Free Spirit.  They were a disparate group of mystics and intellectuals who believed that since they had conquered sin within themselves and attained inner Divinity, they could commit any crime they wanted without any incurred guilt.  They believed that they could rob, commit murder and fraud without any sin or guilt because living \\"totally in the spirit\\" liberated them from all man made and external religious constraints.  The Free Spirit adepts were particularly interested in indulging in sexual promiscuity because sexual transgressions such as homosexuality, fornication and adultery went directly against the grain of the Roman Catholic ideals of celibacy and chastity.  The only sin in their eyes was to be ignorant of one's own inner God, much like today's New Age movement.  <br />These millennial movements gained ground among the urban, unskilled poor who had been uprooted by famines, high taxes and lack of opportunities in the countryside.  Millennialism took off particularly in the High Middle Ages (1100-1400s) and persisted after the Reformation in the form of several radical Anabaptist sects, as opposed to the earlier \\"dark ages\\" before the advent of the Crusades.  The leaders tended to come from the educated classes and merchants, were either intellectuals or pseudo-intellectuals and skilled at demagoguery--inciting the popular imaginations of the disaffected crowds that followed them.  The most interesting parts of Cohn's Pursuit of the Millennium__ are the parallels between these medieval upsurges and how Communism and Nazism in retrospect reflect upon them.  Many of the itinerant prophetae aroused popular anger against the Jews and encouraged physical attacks and massacre upon them, along with the loose living clergy.  Some millennial movements were inspired by the ancient Greek notion of a human state of Nature, similar to the Genesis version of the created man in Paradise, where all humans lived in a state of harmony and mutual cooperation.  This \\"Golden Age\\" was later destroyed, not by disobedience to God as in the biblical account, but by the creation of the concept of private property and the division of labor and therefore the socioeconomic inequalities this \\"fall\\" entails.  It is very similar to Marx's vision of communist utopia free from the external constraints of the state and organized religion.  In the final analysis, modern popular anti-religious movements such as those inspired by mass media pop culture, and the rhetoric of equality and democracy are by no means new.  They are part of a tradition of revolution stretching back to the beginning of time.	2004-05-06
US	35854103	RRI2I2ZJOLEEF	0945466226	922027993	Education: Free & Compulsory	Books	4	10	16	N	N	Public Skool!	Murray Rothbard's _Education: Free and Compulsory_ is a sketchy tirade against the public education system.  Rothbard--a free-market libertarian-anarchist with conservative social leanings--begins with the observation that government movers and shakers to control and indoctrinate the populace can use education as an apparatus.  To illustrate his point, the cover features a WWII era poster of American schoolchildren collecting supplies for the US military, with \\"schools at war\\" prominently displayed.  Rothbard traces the first advocates of state funded education to the Protestant Reformation when secular rulers wanted maintain the Protestant faith as state religions.  The country that developed the most comprehensive public education program, with mandatory attendance, was Prussia, whose government Rothbard somewhat unfairly characterizes as overly despotic.  The American education establishment, as Rothbard notes, praised the Prussian model and brought an extensive state mandated and compulsory education system to the US during the course of the 19th and 20th centuries.  The ulterior motive of the education establishment is to use government schools to indoctrinate the nation's children with loyalty to the state rather than allowing them to develop and educate themselves independently with direct parental involvement.  The regimes most openly opposed to individual freedom, like Communist Russia and Nazi Germany, have made no secret of their intention to use public schools to inculcate loyalty to government programs.  Rothbard cites the fact that not all children are comfortable in an academic environment and instead points toward a decentralized system of technical training, skilled labor and vocational education, similar to the apprentice system.  This would suit the needs of what is naturally an inherently diversified and stratified population rather than forcing all children into public schools, which are often a negative influence because of the social problemsthe students are exposed to in them (drug addictions, sex, gangs, etc).  Rothbard also brings into question many of modern teaching techniques in the schools which downgrade individual reasoning capacity (i.e., not sticking to the basic reading, writing and arithmetic) and instead teach students using images and group projects.  He also says that schools should abolish \\"frills\\" like physical education and the like to keep students more consistently focused on academics.  It is clear to any one interested in this question that public schools are propagandizing to children (especially with regards to environmentalism, anti-religion, multiculturalism and \\"Holocaustianity\\" in the US).  Rothbard is somewhat over-reactionary in his blanked condemnation of all public education, but he does raise some valid questions regarding the disorientating, anti-family agenda of compulsory education in America.	2004-04-27
US	35854103	R1ZKRVUXH9HYZB	0870001434	775503107	Leftism: from de Sade and Marx to Hitler and Marcuse	Books	5	53	55	N	N	A radical view of the political spectrum	_Leftism: From de Sade and Marx to Hitler and Marcuse_ by Erik von Kuehnelt-Leddihn is a comprehensive, if informal and radical, study of the major trends in leftist thought from the era of the French Revolution.  This title is the original edition of a similar book released in the early 1990s, _Leftism Revisited: From de Sade and Marx to Hitler and Pol Pot_.  Kuehnelt seeks to redefine the political spectrum.  His background as an Austrian nobleman gives him a perspective on politics that is very different and unique compared with the vast majority of Americans.  Kuehnelt also openly writes from a Roman Catholic viewpoint and pro-Christian viewpoint.  He defines as \\"leftist\\" as any movement that emphasizes \\"identitarianism\\" (i.e. sameness) and either the total rule of the state or \\"the will of the people\\" over the populace's affairs.  The political writings of Aristotle identify three poor forms of government: democracy, oligarchy and tyranny; and three good forms: constitutional republic, aristocracy and monarchy.  Democracies tend to degenerate into tyranny as witness by the chaotic Weimar republic sowing the seeds for the Nazi takeover because it lacked any foundations in traditional German politics, which was dominated by the nobility.  What is especially odd about Kuehnelt's study is he classifies Nazism and Fascism as \\"leftist\\" movements.  The Nazis were anti-aristocratic and anti-tradition, and tried to create a revolutionary state.  Since left wing movements tend to want to standardize everything and make everything the same, Nazism had a leftist tendency when it emphasized the \\"Aryan race\\" as the ideal for all humanity.  Hitler was a product of the mass society of the early 1900s.  Nazism is similar to the more familiar liberal, internationalist Leftism, which denies racial and gender differences and seeks to make the world a giant unisex, brown conglomerate.  In both perspectives, one race (the Aryan or the hybrid) is given the key to the future as the harbinger of a worldly, conflict free paradise.  Marxism and socialism during the 19th and 20th centuries was of course profoundly leftist.  They tried (and were successful in Russia) to overthrow all of the \\"bourgeoisie\\" establishments in society and set up a totally ahistorical new form of government that supposedly would accommodate the interests of the majority of humanity, the proletariat, by eradicating traditional religion and having a small party of government bureaucrats dictate economic policy.  This of course resulted in human catastrophe, as the deportations, famines and sheer brutality of life in Communist Russia and China have shown.  Hatred of the Jews is generally attributed to the right, but Kuehnelt provides examples of Marx's distaste for the Jewish culture he grew up in.  Democratic tyranny (this is not an oxymoron) in the name of \\"the people\\" has a heritage reaching back to the Enlightenment, the ideals of Rousseau and the violence of the French Revolution.  Then of course don't forget the liberalization-at-gunpoint programs of Peter the Great, Kemal Ataturk and the US Civil Rights movement.  America started off with a constitutional republic and has since fallen prey to democratic tendencies.  The Founding Fathers were not egalitarians by any sense of the word (especially not Jefferson, who is usually touted as having the most egalitarian views), but were rather aristocrats who wanted to protect their own interests in the US and opposed royal authority over them.  Especially harmful in the international scene were the utopian pretensions of Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt and Winston Churchill.  The most prominent example of a true rightist government in the 20th century was Francisco Franco's who defeated communists, socialists and assorted enemies of the Catholic Church in the Spanish Civil War.  Kuehnelt's book is also greatly helpful because he defines how true rightists in different countries may in fact be very different from each otherbecause of a variety of cultural and national circumstances.  He does not want conservative groups solely made up of the \\"haters of the haters,\\" like the neo-Nazis who opposed democracy and liberalism today.  He decries the harmful rightist tendency, especially prominent in America, towards anti-intellectualism.  The term \\"liberal\\" can also be redefined to its more original usage.  \\"Liberty\\" meant personal freedom, restriction from government control.  \\"Liberty\\" is mutually exclusive with \\"Equality\\" whenever people are forced intentionally by an external institution to be the Equal (in education, occupation, physical appearance, financial income, etc) because enforced equality (a type of 'secular monasticism' as Kuehnelt describes it) goes against human nature.  It is the product of a more or less conscious rejection of Christian theology because it presupposes man's perfectibility in this life.because of a variety of cultural and national circumstances.  He does not want conservative groups solely made up of the \\"haters of the haters,\\" like the neo-Nazis who opposed democracy and liberalism today.  He decries the harmful rightist tendency, especially prominent in America, towards anti-intellectualism.  The term \\"liberal\\" can also be redefined to its more original usage.  \\"Liberty\\" meant personal freedom, restriction from government control.  \\"Liberty\\" is mutually exclusive with \\"Equality\\" whenever people are forced intentionally by an external institution to be the Equal (in education, occupation, physical appearance, financial income, etc) because enforced equality (a type of 'secular monasticism' as Kuehnelt describes it) goes against human nature.  It is the product of a more or less conscious rejection of Christian theology because it presupposes man's perfectibility in this life.	2004-04-14
US	35854103	R3DYMB4SAKOK2J	0859652807	961623224	Lucifer Rising : A Book of Sin, Devil Worship and Rock 'n' Roll	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Lucifer's Rise in pop-culture.	Gavin Baddeley's _Lucifer Rising: Sin, Devil Worship and Rock n' Roll_ is a journalistic outtake on Satanic themes in modern pop-culture.  This British author is hardly objective, a Satanist himself (his name has \\"bad\\" in it!) and as such, the book offers a glimpse into the inner workings of the minds of those who feel inspired by Satan.  Or more accurately, by the notion of rebellion against the \\"restrictive\\" God of Bible and Church.  The tone of _Lucifer Rising_ is the same as that of the narrator-announcer on VH1's _Behind the Music_ series: pretentious and self-authoritative.  It is filled with interviews, illustrations of demons, sacrilegious artwork (a painting of St. Anthony the Great tempted with a vision of a beautiful naked woman on a cross, for example), and of course, with more then a few photographs of voluptuous naked women featured in occult ceremonies.  Much of the imagery either blends the characteristics of male and female or promotes a radical sexual polarity, including S&M scenes, abstinence a definite taboo in Satanism.  Baddeley begins by tracing the origins of Satanism from Old Testament times, where it grew as an offshoot of heretical sects including Gnostics, various backwoods pagan customs and as a direct inversion of Christian belief, moral authority and ritual.  In the 1700s odd beliefs and Luciferian thinking may have even been an impetus for the Founding Fathers when they gathered together in their lodge meetings to draw up the laws of the United States.  Alestier Crowley was certainly the most influential occultist in the early 20th century, spreading bizarre ideas in his numerous books on the occult and the coming new age.  German contemporaries of Crowely, postulated strange theories that would later be integrated into the politics of the Nazi Party.   Guido von List and Lanz von Liebenfels published writings that Hitler read avidly, in the journal _Ostara_ on the divine nature of the Germanic race.  The 1960s aesthetic, atheistic, dilettante and speculative Satanism of Anton LaVey is especially examined in depth.  LaVey's version of Satanism is a combine of blasphemous rituals mocking the sacred realm of Christianity, with a doctrine of hedonism and an atheistic metaphysical worldview.  His \\"Church of Satan\\" does not literally believe in a devil, but rather in atheism, which is logical because a literal worship of an evil, demonic entity would therefore presuppose the existence of a good, creator God who allowed the devil to rebel in the first place.  LaVey, misanthropic, elitist and misogynist in his views, also cursed the hippie movement for its optimism, espousal of brotherly love and utopian idealism.  In the 1960s, Satan became the favorite icon of Rock n' Roll bands, many musicians employing satanic imagery, inverted crosses and gothic, morbid negative themes in their lyrics and concerts.  Baddeley examines in considerable detail the satanic elements in popular music, from the Beatles, Rolling Stones to punk rock and heavy metal all the way up to the 1990s.  Some Scandinavian heavy-metal heads, as chronicled by the self-proclaimed Pagan Michael Moynihan, have been involved in the heavy metal scene have been involved in violence, church burnings, and of course in promoting a virulent form of anti-Christianity.  Baddeley interviews Moynihan about the \\"Faustian spirit of Fascism,\\" derived from Spengler's theory of the cyclic rise and fall of cultures (accompanied by a photograph of the androgynous Marilyn Manson in a Nazi pose).  A common theme among fringe Satanic cults is that they embrace the idea that the West is in a state of total decline and that the world is soon to embark in a downward spiral of chaos and bloodshed and the revival of paganism.  These self-proclaimed Satanists are quick to explain that they are not affiliated with \\"Wicca\\" or white magic because of because of Wicca's philanthropist and egalitarian outlook.  Satan has even become a popular character in comic books, movies and even video games in addition to youth-culture music.  Several notorious serial killings, such as those of Charles Manson and Son of Sam had dark, occulted inspirations.  Satan is an appealing character because he represents a youthful rebellion against an established order that certain occultists with an agenda want to attack--stable society and especially the Christian religion.  _Lucifer Rising_ is an interesting look at some of the wicked elements in the undertow of Western society in the past fifty years.  Satanists like Baddeley claim en masse that without the devil there would have been no Christianity.  However, such a stance begs the question: where would Satan and his angels be if there is no God for them to rebel against?	2004-04-06
US	35854103	R208XOW7N0V0H4	0964589702	276101472	Partners in Hate: Noam Chomsky and the Holocaust Deniers	Books	2	29	57	N	N	Noam Chomsky, anti-Zionist dissident intellectual.	Werner Cohn's \\"Partners in Hate: Noam Chomsky and the Holocaust Deniers\\" is a rambling essay attempting to impress upon the reader that Chomsky, a professor of linguistics at MIT and anti-war activist of the 60s, is a neo-Nazi because of Chomsky's connections in the world of underground right wing publishing.  Obviously this book has an agenda, and it appears that \\"Partners in Hate\\" is addressed more to a specifically Jewish audience than a general readership.  \\"Partners\\" tries to make Chomsky look like a \\"neo-Nazi,\\" in spite of the fact that Chomsky is as far-left and internationalist as one can imagine.  He is basically a glorified hippie who is coherent enough to put his radical-left wing ideas in book form.  Most of his publications deal with US foreign policy, the Cold War and terrorism (look on the shelves of any bookstore).  However, Chomsky draws a large following from various political positions worldwide because he critiques the role the US plays on the global stage.  It would make sense that racist, \\"anti-Semites\\" would find common cause with Chomsky, a libertarian-socialist, because of similar grievances against pro-Jewish causes and interest groups in the US government.  However, this does not make Chomsky a goose-stepping, Heil Hitler-ing, SS concentration camp commandant.  This is particularly evident when one is familiar with several of the examples Cohn cites his misconceived diatribe:<br />-Chomsky claims Jews dominate New York City, being disproportionately over-represented in positions of authority and public influence there.<br />-Chomsky endorsed a pamphlet by Israel Shahak, _Jewish History, Jewish Religion_ (which says Jews worship the devil), calling Shahak's work of \\"great value.\\"<br />-Chomsky's book _The Fateful Triangle_ was offered in Noontide Press's/Institute of Historical Review book catalogue, a group that also offers books by Hitler and the \\"Protocols of Zion.\\"<br />-Chomsky published some material defending the works of Robert Faurisson, a French historian who published works \\"denying the Holocaust.\\"  Faurisson is connected with anti-Israel far left/right \\"National Bolsheviks\\" in France and elsewhere in Europe, who are apparently being supported by Iran.  <br />I have a book published by the Noontide Press from the 1980s with a dozen or so titles offered in the back, all of which would be deemed \\"anti-Semitic.\\"  Among them was Chomsky's book _Fateful Triangle: The United States, Israel and the Palestinians_, a massive tome documenting and criticizing America's support of Zionism and the State of Israel in the Middle East, of which I have read roughly 60 pages last year.  The latest Noontide Catalogue that I have (2001) does not offer it.  I also have a copy of Shahak's (an Israeli professor of organic chemistry) _Jewish History, Jewish Religion_, available from a number of far right and neo-Nazi distributors in the US, which Chomsky endorses.  I have read it a number of times and it is totally misrepresented by Cohn.  _Jewish History_ is a standard left-wing text in its dialogue except it criticizes aspects of Jewish religion, and has nothing racist or pro-Nazi in character.  <br />Although neo-Nazis and many on the far right would want to curtail freedom of speech, they benefit from freedom of speech laws in the US. Therefore, it makes sense that libertarians like Chomsky would support the right of neo-Nazis to disseminate their views because it falls into the liberal \\"anything goes\\" mentality.  Cohn seems to want limitations on freedom of speech for the people he considers \\"haters\\" because they refuse to bow to the idol of Zionist power.  If Cohn is so absolutely sure that six million Jews died in the Nazi Holocaust as a historical fact and can prove it, why feel insecure when others deny it?  It also brings into question as to who benefits from merely dismissing historical research whether or not the \\"six million\\" claim is historically true or not.  If it is not, then an important, tragicand confusing era in the history of the twentieth century has been nearly falsified due to hidden political and social agendas.  The fact is both Nazism and Zionism developed from worldwide nationalistic trends originating in the turmoil and conflicts of the nineteenth century.  <br />Cohn also addresses the issue of whether or not Chomsky is a \\"self-hating Jew.\\"  Cohn says that Chomsky rejects his Jewish heritage and identifies with Jewish enemies of various persuasions like neo-Nazis, Arab terrorists and Eastern European peasants.  This makes sense, but the label \\"self-hatred\\" only seems to be applied to Jews.  Liberals have brought Black conservatives such as Alan Keyes, Thomas Sowell, Colin Powell and Clarance Thomas into question because they do not appear to be acting in the interests of the African Americans (i.e. according to liberal social programs) in the US.  Also, are whites that dislike their own ethnic background \\"self-hating\\" when they embrace multiculturalism and consider non-whites superior to themselves?  In conclusion, I recommend actually reading something by either Chomsky or Shahak before believing all of Cohn's questionable statements.  For all of his claims to be against \\"hate,\\" Cohn's \\"Partners in Hate\\" is one of the more catty attacks out there.	2004-04-03
US	35854103	ROUE7RIBFI3JG	1887904026	890598729	Genesis, Creation and Early Man: The Orthodox Christian Vision	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Back to the Future	_Genesis, Creation and Early Man_ by Father Seraphim Rose is a sizable tome which containing his studies on the Patristic writings on the creation of the world.  This book was compiled and edited from among Fr. Seraphim's many papers, articles and letters that he had written on the subject, much of it in response to questions concerning the place of the evolutionary origins of humanity in Orthodox teaching.  The primary sources Fr. Seraphim uses are from the ancient Fathers St. John Chrysostom, St. Basil the Great, St. Ambrose and St. Ephraim.  The basic patristic doctrine concerning the creation of the world is that it was originally a Paradise, totally different from the fallen, disunited world of today.  The Genesis record (according to tradition revealed by God to Moses) is a divine revelation; the true origins of the world cannot be fathomed and totally explained by rational science.  Human reason alone cannot give us a glimpse into our primordial origin because disobedience and sin have clouded the eyes of man.  The species of animals and plants were created all at once, in different varieties, and the Genesis record notes that the plants were created before the sun was formed.  The meaning of this is that since the plants grew without the sun, then God, not the sun, is the true origin of Life.  God also created humans into male and female, itself in anticipation of the fall.  Fr. Seraphim quotes the writings of the Fathers stating that before the fall from Paradise, mankind would have been able to reproduce itself without sexual intercourse.  Thus, differences between male and female will exist, along with the sacrament of marriage until the resurrection.  Death was also unknown to primordial man, and physical decay is also a result of sin.  After the fall, the entire world was radically changed.  As man became more and more corrupt, life spans decreased and the world was transformed again by the waters of the great Flood.  At the tower of Babel, man also became disparate in all parts of the world, members of different races, nationalities and languages.  In this scheme, Fr. Seraphim brings into question many presuppositions of modern science.  Evolutionism holds that the various species of life, plants and animals, evolved from a common source hundreds of millions of years ago.  Therefore, man apparently evolved from form of ape in the past couple hundred thousands of years.  The fossil record and similar genetics and traits are touted as evidence of evolutionary origins.  However, the question is not settled as to where this primordial ooze that we evolved came from.  There can be variations within different species and different \\"breeds\\" like cats and dogs as well as different human races.  Also, Fr. Seraphim demonstrates how fossil dating techniques are arbitrary and designed by the scientists who support evolutionary theory in the first place.  Current rock formations may indeed be the work of a cataclysm like the Flood, an event that Genesis describes as having radical environmental consequences (the rainbow).  _Genesis, Creation and Early Man_ is an excellent resource for an introduction to the philosophy of the more predominant Fathers of the Church and a critique of popular scientific beliefs.  Fr. Seraphim demonstrates that there is no real conflict between objective science and religion as long as the science is not used to answer fundamental questions of human existence.	2004-03-29
US	35854103	R3HEWC15NJVRL7	1560255250	234623747	Sexual Revolution	Books	5	8	28	N	N	The Sexual Revolution:  Yet Another Utopian Heresy.	Why give this book five stars?  It is a catalogue of the nihilistic heresy of the twentieth century--a democratic utopia fueled by an orgy of sexual expression and \\"free love.\\"  What is the sexual revolution actually revolting against?  Traditional Christian views on morality and along with it, societal and familiar structure.  The worst part of this is many people in Third World, non-Christian states view this type of license as representative of America and the West in general, when in fact this is nothing further from the truth.  An overemphasis on sexuality took off with Freud and his questionable theories in the late 1800s.  The sexual revolution started swinging in the fifties and early sixties as more or less male fashionable dalliance idealized in _Playboy_ magazine.  It later became embroiled with accompanying liberalizing factors in Western society during the sixties such as the civil rights movement and spilled over into feminism and the campaign for \\"gay\\" rights.  This whole thing is anti-Christian, anti-patriarchal, anti-family and anti-Western to the core.  It is constantly bombarding the world's populaces who are (un?)fortunate enough to be in some way to experience the television set, rock n' roll CD or Hollywood blockbuster movie.  The sexual revolution is at the end of the day a fraud.  No sooner than women began to spill into the workplace there was plenty of money to be made by lawyers specializing in sexual harassment lawsuits.  Some progress humanity has made.  The sexual revolution has its antecedents in history.  A few ancient Gnostic sects, because they believed the material world inherently evil, indulged in the pleasures of the flesh because it supposedly did not affect the state of one's spiritual being, a few well documented here.  When Christ is ignored, man will instead look for earthly means to bring about the Kingdom of God and eternal bliss on merely human terms.  Christ's Kingdom is \\"not of this world\\" and will not be experienced in this life, but only in the Age to Come.  In the case of the sexual revolution a millennial utopia is attained though the grossest desires of the flesh.  Has the sexual revolution failed?  Well, people are just as disgruntled as they ever were.  At least Marx's economic utopia of the proletariat looked serious and businesslike.  It's best to stick to traditional, moderate sexual values, which are especially important to maintain in the face of the world's dissolution and media propaganda.  If you want the obscene details then look no further than _Sexual Revolution_.  Everybody with some opinion and agenda are mentioned somewhere in here, from Freud, Wilhelm Reich, Norman Mailer to _Time_ Magazine, Larry Flint, Susan Sontag, etc.	2004-03-15
US	35854103	R13J04XLGRI0TG	0881411310	431224337	An Introduction to Reading the Apocalypse	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Reading the Apocalpyse.	Father Flegg's _An Introduction to Reading the Apocalypse_ is a short book that tries to give an Orthodox perspective on the most controversial text of the New Testament.  There are many different interpretations of the Apocalypse (or more commonly known as the Book of Revelations), which introduces itself as &quot;the Revelation (Apocalypsis) of Jesus Christ.&quot;  Some of these are true; others partially true drawing from older traditions and of course a great many blatantly false and even heretical.  Among the misguided interpretations are those of the \\"Rapture\\" of the Church and Christ coming to inaugurate a literal Millennial Kingdom on this earth before the final battle with Satan.  Another abberent interpretation holds that the Church will somehow \\"take over\\" the world's institutions and Christ will come when most if not all of the population is converted to Christianity.  Both of these and their respective variations arose from the odd beliefs of a medieval Catholic monk Joachim of Fiore who taught a \\"third millenium of the Holy Spirit\\" would envelop the world and renew the Church because he was the current \\"Age of the Son\\" as becoming grossly corrupt.  They are also influenced by the slip-ups of various teachers of the later Protestant Reformation and backwoods American and British evangelical-revivalists in the 19th century.  Orthodox Church tradition holds that the Apocalypse was written sometime after the year 90 AD by the St. John the Theologian, Apostle of Christ and Evangelist who wrote the Gospel of John.  It is also very similar to the visions in the Prophets Ezekiel and Daniel in the Old Testament.  Ezekiel describes an apocalyptic battle between God's people and the vast armaments of the nations of Gog and Magog culminating in a victory for the besieged New Jerusalem understood as the Church.  Daniel's vision is one of a succession of four worldly kingdoms: Babylonia, Persia, Greece and &quot;Beast of Iron,&quot; the Roman Empire.  During the period of Roman domination, God's kingdom on Earth would be established, &quot;a Kingdom not of this world,&quot; and would last forever.  The Apocalypse is a reiteration of those Old Testament prophecies and also of the discourses of Jesus before He was crucified on the end of the world and his Second Coming.  Also, St. Paul, who characterized the apocalyptic era as one of mass apostasy also, wrote Christ's Second Coming about, unbelief and sin run rampant.  Above all, however, the Apocalypse is a revelation of Christ's victory over the worldly and demonic evil, sin and death that are man's mortal enemies and shall be cast into the Eternal Fire.  Christ, revealed as the Lamb of God, has conquered in the beginning of time, is conquering as we speak and will conquer in the future.  The Apocalypse is full of symbols of Christ's Kingship.  Regarding the Second Coming, Fr. Flegg notes St. Peter's dictum that &quot;a day with the lord is as a thousand years.&quot;  Although the Apocalypse was written nearly 2,000 years ago its message of Christ's immanent return remains relevant today.  Fr. Flegg's Introduction_ is by no means an exhaustive treatment on this subject, although it gives a decent summary of the meaning of Revelation.  It does well by highlighting the correct interpretation of the Apocalypse as opposed to more of the recent novel innovations that are (in my opinion) the products of persons with ulterior religious agendas or persons out of touch with reality.	2004-03-13
US	35854103	R1AXLYWE9X41XZ	0837157382	484965216	Rising Tide of Colour Against White World Supremacy	Books	4	14	22	N	N	Racial Conflict for the Twentieth Century.	Lothrop Stoddard's _The Rising Tide of Color Against White-World Supremacy_ is a notorious &quot;racist&quot; book published in 1920 in the aftermath of the inter-European slaughter of WWI.  This is about as stereotypical, and non-PC as can be imagined, making it a amusing and rebellious to a reader not totally indoctrinated by the multicultural-inclined Establishment.  Stoddard outlines the different races of the world and focuses on the position of the White, especially the &quot;Nordic&quot; race and its dominant position in world politics.  After the fall of the Roman Empire, whites, centered in Europe, have been on the defensive against outside invasions of Asiatics and Moslems until the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.  European and expansion brought most of the &quot;colored&quot; world under the control of white nations in Europe, America was established as a colony of Britain in North America, and Russia extended its empire all the way across Asia crossing over to Alaska.  Some non-white countries, such as China, Japan and Persia maintained a form of independence but their trade policies came to be dominated by European nations.  Against this white hegemony arose during the later 19th century nationalist movements against European imperialism.  Stoddard divides the world into five general categories, based on races (White, Yellow, Brown, Black and Red (in Latin America).  The book's biggest shortcoming is that it is based on an evolutionary theory of human origins and it views the entire field of human conflict on racial terms alone.  It is true that racial differences do exist and &quot;good fences make good neighbors&quot; but there are other factors at play in the world's affairs rather than race by itself.  Also, since this was written in the twenties it is very dated regarding some of its predictions.  However, it is clear that the breakdown of racial barriers and the slow but steady cultural-ethnic assault on former Christendom is one of the many factors to cause chaos in the world.	2004-03-05
US	35854103	R2EI7Z9GJUKZ6Q	0932813852	745790603	The Book of Enoch the Prophet	Books	3	72	81	N	N	Thus Spoke Enoch	The &quot;Book of Enoch&quot; is a lost manuscript of a book ascribed to the prophet Enoch, the antediluvian Old Testament Patriarch, seventh generation from Adam, whom God took into Heaven for his righteousness.  It is also a tradition in the Church that Enoch (along with Elias) to witness for Christ against the Antichrist.  The book is a part of the widespread Apocalyptic literature of its time, filled with visions of God, the Messiah, angels, the saints, Hell, Judgement, the ordering of the world, the Fall of Satan, etc.  &quot;Enoch&quot; is a pseudepigraphal text (&quot;falsely ascribed,&quot; i.e., the actual Enoch didn't write it) most likely written in Hebrew, and this translation was made into Ethiopic, the language of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.  It was probably written a few centuries or so before Christ.  &quot;Enoch&quot; was clearly an influence to be reckoned with in the early Church because many of its passages parallel the New Testament, in particular the Gospels.  Jude even quotes it in his Epistle, &quot;Behold He comes with ten thousands of his saints to execute judgement...&quot; (Enoch c2v1).  Many Church Fathers alluded to it in their writings and it appears to have been accepted as authoritative by some of them.  For instance, Origen used &quot;Enoch&quot; to compile his outline of Heaven's angelic hierarchy.  It was not accepted as Scripture in either the Old or New Testaments in the long run however.  The only Church that preserved it in translation was the Ethiopian Orthodox that remained totally isolated from the outside world until an English explorer brought three manuscripts of &quot;Enoch&quot; to Europe in the late 1700s.  It's a curious fact of history that Ethiopia, along with Armenia and later the Roman Empire, was among the world's first officially Christian countries.  An element of controversy in &quot;Enoch&quot; is certainly its depiction of the Watcher angels.  These Watchers are the questionable &quot;sons of God&quot; recorded in Genesis 6 who lusted after the daughters of men, had intercourse with them and begot wicked children.  The Watchers also instructed humans in the arts of sorcery, technology and encouraged the women to use makeup and other artifices to allure men, which brought God's wrath upon them.  This explanation of the beginning of the world's evil is rather &quot;unorthodox&quot; however.  Angels are not created either male or female and do not possess physical bodies and therefore would not have been able to impregnate human females.  The edition of this book is poorly printed and makes uncomfortable reading.  The font was enlarged and photocopied from the original printed editions back in the 1800s so it looks like a large print edition.	2004-03-05
US	35854103	R1LZIC0GYUMX45	0913026735	306160817	Secular Humanism: An Orthodox Perspective	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Tyranny of Secular Humanism.	_Secular Humanism: An Orthodox Perspective_ by Fr. John F. Bockman is a treatise on the \\"religion\\" of Secular Humanism, the collection of academics and pseudo-scientists who are its main brains and its pernicious influence in America today.  It was originally printed in 1991 so some of its references and speculations are rather dated.  Bockman begins by defining Secular Humanism as a belief system, a naturalistic religion of Man, formulated as an \\"anti-religion\\" that places humans and human experience at the center of Being.  It errs by denying man's fallen nature and by relying on man's rational wisdom and the much-toted scientific method to technologically solve the world's problems.  If technology does not work, then bureaucratic social and education programs need to be imposed and administered by the government (i.e. brainwashing).  Humanistic strains began of course with several of the ancient Greek philosophers, adopted by many in the Roman Empire and then reemerged in Western Europe before, during and after the Protestant Reformation.  Interestingly, Bockman considers the heresy of Pelagianism (free will) which challenged the Church in the West as a Christian theological element in humanism as well.  Secular Humanism had its ghosts in the volumes of Thomas Aquinas and pervaded the \\"Enlightenment\\" of Diederot, Rosseau and Voltaire, reaching its modern codification in the writings of Darwin, Marx, and Freud.  Marx's materialism bred the aberrant Latin American liberation theology of revolution and economic utopia.  The noted architect of America's education establishment, John Dewey was in line with Marxism and far-left socialism as well who later in life renounced his original support for Stalin's Soviet Union in the thirties.  The famous psychologists Erich Fromm (\\"Adam's disobedience the first act of autonomous humanity\\", Carl Rogers (\\"encounter groups\\"), Abraham Maslow (hierarchy of needs and \\"self-actualization), and Rollo May (existentialist) were influenced by Freud although psychology diverged into many different branches and theories.  Freud's pre-occupation with sex and an \\"Oedipal complex\\" being the root of religious beliefs was part of a general trend to emphasize sexual sins as the worst in society, which Bockman characterizes as another aspect of Western rationalism and apostasy.  Bockman overviews different classes in American society who are likely to either sympathize with, oppose or remain indifferent to the social programs of Secular Humanism.  Those likely to support Secular Humanism are mostly upper class: the \\"Seculars,\\" highly educated, affluent individuals who vote democratic, 60's Democrats who are basically ex-hippies and \\"the Enterprisers\\" who are milking the capitalist system for what its worth and generally vote Republican.  Those opposed are generally less educated and affluent and reside in the middle and working class, \\"the Moralists\\" who lean toward a general social conservatism and vote Republican; \\"New Dealers\\" who are aging, predominantly Catholic, socially conservative Democrats.  \\"God and Country Democrats\\" who have lower economic standing, most likely to support censorship but usually support Democratic candidates because of social welfare programs.  Those not interested in the debate are usually either poor, and/or young and not interested in politics or religion, or middle class, middle-aged, middle of the line pessimists.  There is little consensus because both political parties often support (or are supported by) similar Secular interests, coupled America's convoluted cultural, class and religious scene.  Bockman also discusses the influence of secularism on America's culture, which started off with a militant Calvinistic Puritanism in the 1600s.  A detached deism and rationalism predominated in the later 1700s and witnessed a reversal to cater to religious immigrants from Europe in the 1800s, veering back toward secularism (at least among the higher echelons) in the twentieth century.  Secularism's fruits include a demoralized, despairing and cynical populace, abortion on demand, broken marriages and a multi-billion dollar pornography dominated by organized crime.  Bockman cites the AIDS crisis as the current pinnacle of the ultra-Secular Humanist gay-liberation movement, although he doesn't take into account many factors regarding it currently.  The first is that he makes it seem exclusive to sodomy, but the vast majority of cases today are in sub-Saharan Africa and spread by heterosexual contact.  He also overreacts when he cites a prediction that AIDS will claim 25 million victims in the US by 2005.  Bockman is also too radical when criticizing Blessed Augustine, implied as being a heretic.  The book concludes with an exhortation to Orthodox Christians to remain separate from the world while living in it, as the soul inhabits the body.	2004-03-02
US	35854103	R3G9M4FAE162X3	0728301539	26175142	Eternity and Time	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Eternity and Time	Dimutru Staniloae's &quot;Eternity and Time&quot; is a transcript of a lecture given by this noted Romanian Orthodox theologian who at one time was imprisoned during a period of official Communist persecution against the Church in the 1950s.  Time is the temporal world itself continually sustained by the Eternity of God and the period where God offers salvation to man, and also of man's voyage toward Eternity.    Eternity is where there is everlasting life and newness.  If something has no movement, no change, no life then it can said to be in a form of death.  Staniloae offers in interesting perspective on Hell; it is a state of complete stagnation and ultimate boredom.  The greatest feeling one can experience in Time is that of anticipation of meeting a loved one.  Therefore, Heaven is the place of eternal Communion between God and deified man while Hell is the separation from God in for eternity.	2004-02-27
US	35854103	R1WFYXS23BJL2D	0911165371	410976732	The Egyptian Desert in the Irish Bogs: The Byzantine Character of Early Celtic Monasticism	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The Mystical Celtic Church	_The Egyptian Desert in the Irish Bogs: The Byzantine Character of Early Celtic Monasticism_ by Fr. Gregory Telepneff is a lengthy essay that discusses the topic of the Irish Church, founded by the noted Orthodox luminary, Saint Patrick.  What differentiates the Celtic Church (in Ireland and Scotland) was the Church's center of gravity were the monastic Abbots/Bishops and the strict ascetic nature of Celtic monasticism.  Fr. Telepneff begins his analysis by differentiating the different strains of monastic practice that originated in the Middle East during the early period of the Church.  Palestinian-Syrian monks practiced a semi-coenobitic life, with an emphasis on study, as exemplified by the Latin Saint Jerome who was well versed in Hebrew and Greek and traveled to the Holy Land.  The monks of Cappadocia, personified by St. Basil the Great placed the most stress on learning and a coenobitic/communal life.  The most ascetic of monastic groups, however, arose in Egypt (the Copts) following the Desert Father, St. Anthony the Great.  These monks were the most concerned with total renunciation of the world, many of them becoming anchorites, or hermits living in total isolation and prayer in the sterile desert.  Telepneff notes the system of different types of martyrdom recognized in the traditions of the Orthodox Church.  White martyrdom consists of renouncing the things of the world, including family ties for the sake of Christ.  Green martyrdom takes the otherworldliness a step further and seeks salvation in living in total isolation from the world, they way of solitary hermits.  Red martyrdom is of course where one goes down in blood in witness to Christ and partakes in His sufferings.  Celtic monasticism follows the model of the Coptic Fathers, and maintained a strong tradition of &quot;Green Martyrdom.&quot;  Numerous eastern, including Egyptian texts were found in the possession of Celtic monasteries.  St. Patrick, the Irish monk/bishop who converted the Celts in Ireland in particular was influenced by the monasticism of the East.  There are similarities between Celtic artwork and illuminated manuscripts and those found in Egypt and Byzantium as well.  There are some legends of monks traveling from the Eastern Mediterranean all the way to Ireland in the West and Irish ascetics traveling to Egypt, Byzantium and the Middle East.  Fr. Telepneff speculates to great length that the Eastern influences in the Celtic Church were derived from Gaul, the obvious conduit, although Gaul was nowhere as similar to the Christian East in its traditions.  He concludes that the Celtic Church formed from direct contact and reciprocation between Celtic and Coptic monks and the numerous writings of the Eastern Fathers circulating in Ireland.	2004-02-26
US	35854103	R20PRRU0S98CW2	0900588306	678084322	The System of Antichrist: Truth & Falsehood in Postmodernism & the New Age	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Matter is Entropy.	Charles Upton's _The System of Antichrist_ is a lengthy treatise that discusses the nature of the power of evil in today's world and functions as an introduction to the reader of the various thinkers of the obscure \\"Traditionalist\\" school.  The Traditionalists are a small group of scholars (Rene Guenon, Huston Smith, Frithof Schoun, Coomaraswamy, etc.) who believe in the \\"Transcendent Unity of Religions.\\"  What this doctrine teaches is that there was once one universal spiritual state of mankind that was corrupted during a primeval fall.  The traditional religions of the world (Orthodox Christianity, Judaism, Sufi and Shiite Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, Zoroasterianism, and a few versions of tribal Shamanism) share common roots and maintain similar views on the nature of the universe and the first and last times.  Basically the universe operates on a vicious cycle where the created world starts off with a Golden Age, a Garden of Eden of perfection and Divine Love, but humanity falls from this state and progressively gets worse and worse.  Demons rule openly and work to convince humanity to accept the rule of the Antichrist, totally opposed to Godliness.  The Messiah, Christ, Madhi, Tenth Imran, Kaki Avatar, Buddha, i.e. Truth Incarnate arrives, slays the Antichrist and initiates a new Golden Age, an New Heaven and New Earth and utterly transfiguring the old, sinful world.  Part of the mass apostasy seen today manifests itself in the philosophical development of postmodernism and blatant demonic activity giving psychic weight to the New Age phenomenon, UFO sightings and government mind control.  Upton also differentiates between different types of religions, such as folk/worldly, Church/otherworldly and mystical paths that seek liberation from the world and connection to God.  Mainline and Evangelical Protestantism have lost their esoteric, ascetic, mystical aspects (such as can be seen in monastic practice) that go above and beyond merely living in the world and believing a set of laid out precepts.  Most of America practices a form of secular folk religion in the public sphere which does not have much to do with the liberation of the soul or beliefs but rather good luck in this life (pep-rallies for instance).  The hippie movement erred seriously when it equated folk religion with mystical traditions.  The biggest problem with this book is that it deals with a metaphysical perspective and is not a specific religion itself, although Upton attempts it in a fashion towards the conclusion.  He says to choose one of the world's traditional faiths and stick to it in its conservative form, but I would question the whole process of \\"choosing\\" a religion.  Religion is above human decisions and if the decision behind choosing them is not overtly political or social, they are not \\"chosen\\" in the same way as a kid deciding to buy a lollipop or chocolate bar (the Spirit goes where it will).  Also the Transcendent Unity of Religions is a bit questionable itself.  It works fine as a metaphysical perspective because of the similarities between Orthodox Christianity, Sufism and Zoroasterianism for example, but is not in itself a religion.  The god of \\"Traditionalism\\" is one who initiates repetitive cycles of time from eternity to eternity, from Golden Age to Kali Yuga to Golden Age to Kali Yuga again.  This is derived from the Hindu and ancient Greek belief in the cycles of eons.  It is a lot more on track with the True natures of things than the liberal belief in \\"progress\\" ascendant today, but it really does not offer man any hope of ultimate salvation in the love of God.  As an Orthodox Christian, it is impossible to believe that Christ is anything less than \\"true God and true man, of one Essence with the Father, etc.,\\" so some of the comparisons with Islam feel a bit sketchy.  I also question Upton's reference to the Kabbalah, a system of mysticism drawn up based on the oral traditions of the Pharisees who conspired to crucify Christ and incite the Roman state to persecute Christianity.  International Jewry is antithetical to tradition.  Generally speaking, whenever a society, nation or religion abandons its traditions, the position of Jews will increase.  Upton notes that the Antichrist will indeed rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem and be worshipped by most of the world's Christians and Jews.  This signifies the mass apostasy of Christians and Jews from the true Faith.  The world of Islam will however, instantly recognize this imposter as the Antichrist (Dajjal) and oppose his reign.  It is not all that clear what will happen at the end times though.  What I find interesting is that Upton believes, based on the Apocalypse 17-18 that the Antichrist (the Beast) will overthrow the One World Government (the Whore of Babylon) and set himself up as God in its stead.  Religious fundamentalist groups are doing their part to fuel the flames of the rule of Antichrist in a scenario like this.  The more chaos there is in the world, the more many people will wish for a figure who will hold out a carrot and offer to solve the humanity's problems if he is given unquestioning obedience.  \\"Traditionalism\\" remains an interesting school of thought among a handful of scholars, but it is nothing more than \\"a school.\\"  It cannot attract a mass of believers of all levels of intelligence and education like the Church can.  In all, a great book on the nature of reality.  The second law of thermodynamics states that as the universe continues, so does entropy.  You will NEVER get as much out of something as you put in.  Loss, decay, death, dissolution, disorder, darkness.  \\"Matter is entropy,\\" writes Upton, as even our earth is nourished by a Sun, slowly burning itself out.  The only hope in this age is indeed a return for whoever can to repent, return to the ancient Way, realize that the world only ends in death, the ultimate defeat, and look forward to where one's state will be in Eternity, unto Ages of Ages.	2004-02-17
US	35854103	R15NN8VA5X8TNP	1585091510	807289474	Mushrooms and Mankind: The Impact of Mushrooms on Human Consciousness and Religion	Books	2	8	15	N	N	Mushrooms and Mankind.	_Mushrooms and Mankind_ posits that the origin of human religious experience comes from consumption of hallucinogenic mushrooms and a variety of other plants, such as poppy flowers and marijuana.  The most notable type of mushroom is the amanita muscaria mushroom.  The author, James Arthur, says that the altered state of consciousness coming from this type of `shroom creates the life-to-death-resurrection which is central to world religion, especially Christianity.  Arthur's book is full of pop-culture New Age speculation, conspiracy theories (it's those sex-hating fascists again), the standard liberal social-political diatribe, etc.  He claims that Freemasonry created Christianity and used it for population control.  Many of these things I disagree with, especially Arthur's notion of a conspiratorial theory of Christianity's origins.  Arthur argues that some drugs be legalized.  I agree that SOME drugs that are today illegal should be made legal for legitimate purposes, either medicinal or recreational.  The primary function of the drug alcohol is to make people stupid, but it is legal for those over twenty-one.  I absolutely do not advocate hallucinogenic use, but making them illegal causes more problems than are solved (for instance, alcohol became more popular AFTER Prohibition made it illegal than before it).<br />I enjoyed the book's layout.  The cover has an icon of Jesus from an 11th century Psalter.  Jesus is shown as \\"Lord of magickal plants,\\" presiding over four mushrooms and poppy flowers with a vine of marijuana beneath.  The book is full of grainy photographs of the most bizarre scenes: gnomes in Christmas art, ancient pottery and statues, pyramids, Asian temples, mushrooms, religious symbols, etc.  What really interested me was the connection between the `shroom and the bomb.  Michael Hoffman in _Secret Societies and Psychological Warfare_ makes the enigmatic statement that the mushroom represents hyper-rationality taken to dangerous and deadly levels.  Therefore a mushroom shaped cloud that appears when a nuclear device is detonated.  Jesus said, \\"I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last.\\"  If Arthur is correct (and it's highly questionable that he is) about religious experience beginning with psychedelic mushrooms, then mushroom clouds carry the seeds of human death.  But I can see the connection more clearly now...  If you like goofy and offbeat theories (even when you don't agree) than _Mushrooms and Mankind_ is worth a look.	2004-02-08
US	35854103	R3EPSP0F2KJOAX	0684849437	758008240	A History of Celibacy: From Athena to Elizabeth I, Leonardo da Vinci, Florence Nightingale, Gandhi, and Cher	Books	3	8	24	N	N	A FemiNazi's History of Celibacy.	_A History of Celibacy_ by Elizabeth Abbott (no irony here, as an Abbott is in charge of a monastery) is a huge overview of what hasn't been going on in human history.  In keeping with the collective schizophrenia of our times, the cover has a picture of a curvaceous womans naked back rather than a more appropriate image such as the Virgin Mary or St. Augustine.<br />Celibacy, defined by Abbott for the sake of her study, is abstinence from sexual activity.  The technical meaning of celibacy is simply not being married, although the word usually designates \\"not engaging in sex.\\"  The foremost proponent of celibacy is of course religion, in particular Catholic and Orthodox Christianity, although celibate traditions existed in pagan Mesopotamia, Greece and Rome as well.  The Gospels never mention Jesus as being intimate with a woman and the early Church practiced a discipline of celibacy, following the example of St. Paul.  Other saints followed in the tradition including St. Anthony the Great (Father of Monks), St. Benedict, St. Jerome and of course, the sexual revolutionist's archenemy, St. Augustine.  The monks of the Christian East were more radically ascetic, \\"anti-Church\\" and individualistic than their communal Western counterparts.  Eastern religions such as Buddhism and Hinduism had many sects and movements that practiced celibacy for one reason or another as a mystical, ascetic practice.  The most otherworldly group, the Jains, believe that celibacy is absolutely to achieve \\"nirvana\\" or \\"moksha.\\"  Conversely, Judaism and Islam do not have celibate traditions.  Later Christianity is examined, where the Roman Catholic Church made celibacy a requirement for its entire clergy.  Cults arose in the United States, such as the Shakers and Father Divine's group, which preached unorthodox versions of Christianity and required celibacy of their communal members.<br />Isaac Newton, Leonardo da Vinci and many other secular figures practiced celibacy in their lives for a variety of reasons.  The book describes some unsavory forms of celibacy have been imposed, like that of castrati, prisoners and girls forced to join convents in the Middle Ages.  Others are pathological like sufferers of eating disorders.  Oddly enough, medical myths of semen conservation that have nothing to do with religious beliefs or social factors have promoted celibacy as well.  This was behind some of the Greek stoic philosophers and the anti-masturbation scare and general prudery of the Victorian era.  Abbott herself promotes celibacy today as New Age self-esteem measures and to prevent the spread of STDs like AIDS.<br />_A History of Celibacy_ represents a familiar feminist anti-Christian bias.  If men practice celibacy it is either because of repressed homosexuality, fear of women or psychological hang-ups.  Female celibates (unless they are forced into it unwillingly by \\"the Patriarchy\\") do so because it is liberating them from male dominance.  Radical feminists promote the \\"gay-rights\\" agenda but suspiciously do not like traditional monasticism, although both amount to \\"biological suicide\\" in worldly terms and leave the sexual use of women behind.  The difference is that homosexuality is worldly, but monasticism is not.  It seems that feminists would rather have men imitating the stereotypically worst aspects of women.  They feel threatened by the otherworldly male ascetics who transcend the world and cannot be manipulated by the desires of the flesh, which is the only fuel behind the feminist program.  Abbott's non-mystical celibacy is one of social forbearance, not rocking the boat by spreading STDs, ruining self-esteem, and causing unwanted pregnancies.  It is also for New Age gurus and feminists who basically want to tear down Western civilization at the end of the day as well.  However, she does have a point when criticizing the current status of the priesthood in the Roman Catholic Church.  The early Church did have married priests (and even someBishops), as does the Orthodox Church today.  The Catholic Church's clerical celibacy requirement is in fact a break from earlier Christian tradition.me Bishops), as does the Orthodox Church today.  The Catholic Church's clerical celibacy requirement is in fact a break from earlier Christian tradition.	2004-02-08
US	35854103	R2POUM8AI8BF58	0911165339	870468718	The Old Calendarists and the Rise of Religious Conservatism in Greece	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Greeks versus Greeks.	This short pamphlet by a Greek professor in Canada outlines the history of Greece's official adoption of the New Calendar (Gregorian) in the early 1920s following WWI and the resulting widespread conservative dissent in the decades afterward.  The author, Kitsikis, is a New Calendarist himself but a supporter of the Old Calendar movement.  I find myself an Old Calendarist sympathizer as the Orthodox Church, along with any number of other religions and traditional cultures in general are being eroded slowly but surely by the New World Order.  The problem with the Old Calendarist movement is its extreme sectarianism which prevents it from finding a common cause with other ultra-conservative, nationalist and separatist groups which would benefit in an alliance against the trendy heresies of modernism, globalism and multiculturalism.<br />Kitsikis starts off by explaining how he has tried to prove that Greece is not actually part of the West nor specifically of the East either.  It is the &quot;navel&quot; of world civilization.  Western cultures trace their intellectual and ideological heritages back to the ancient Greeks, as does the Christian East.  The current Old Calendarist controversy is traced back to 1833 when Greece, under pressure from Britain and France, declared an autonomous Church rather than being under the traditional jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarch in Constantinople (Istanbul).  Britain and France were gravely fearful of Russian expansion into the Mediterranean region.  The Westernization of Greece has been largely imposed from without.  Kitsikis translates a document written by Michalakopolous, a minister in the Venizelos Greek revolutionary government in 1916, which describes how the Orthodox Church will &quot;reform&quot; itself by abolishing monasticism and just about all the different types of traditional practices in the Church to make it more upbeat and politically correct.  The Patriarch responsible for the disruption was Meletios Metaxakis, who was overthrown as the Metropolitan of the autonomous Greek Church in 1920 along with the regime of Venizelos.  However, he was installed as the Ecumenical Patriarch in 1922 under the Allied occupation of Istanbul in Turkey.  The Greek Church adopted the New Calendar in 1923 that involved an Anglican prelate and only a handful of Orthodox Churches.  Kitsikis relates how the entire setup was a pro-Catholic and Freemason bide for political power by various forces outside of Greece.  Meletios Metaxakis was a Freemason, considered a dangerous religious heresy by the traditional Church.<br />This radical change brought about a religious reaction among many in Greece, who viewed the reforms as a threat to established Greek civilization and Christian practice.  Several bishops broke off from the official New Calendar Church in the thirties.  The zeal of Greece's monasteries and especially the monks of the Holy Mountain (Mount Athos) further energized the Old Calendarist movement.  Mount Athos especially is a beacon of Orthodoxy and the monks there have always opposed any move toward ecumenism, dating to the late middle ages when they rejected the Byzantine union with the Pope and were later endorsed by the official protection of the Ottoman Sultan.  The Russian Orthodox Church Abroad (ROCOR) also supported the Old Calendarists and ordained several Bishops for them.  The Patriarch of Jerusalem lends moral support to Old Calendarists as well, but the two are not in communion because although Jerusalem still follows the Old Calendar, it engages in ecumenism with non-Orthodox and the Patriarch of Constantinople.  Unfortunately, the Old Calendarists split into rival factions in Greece.  Bishops Matthew and Germanos broke off from the &quot;moderate&quot; Old Calendarists because Matthew and Germanos denied that the Grace of the Holy Spirit was in the sacraments of the New Calendar Church.  The moderate Old Calendarists view 1923 as a potential, not an actual schism, and Communicate New Calendarists with Confession rather than Christmation.  The followers of Bishop Matthew, the Matthewites, view themselves as the last true Orthodox Christians on earth because they view the New Calendarists as schismatics along with Old Calendarists (including the ROCOR who are in dialogue with them).  The head of the moderate Old Calendarists, Metropolitan Chrysostomos, and his followers faced persecution by the Greek government up to and after WWII, Chrysostomos himself dragged into court on several occasions.  The most prominent Old Calendarist in the United States is Bishop Chrysostomos, an egghead who taught psychology at Princeton before he was ordained, who heads the Center for Traditionalist Orthodox Studies.<br />In all, _The Old Calendarists_ is an interesting book on the obscure but interesting controversies within the Greek Orthodox Church.	2004-02-06
US	35854103	R2RBLWOK8FOER8	0911165045	253130798	Scripture and Tradition	Books	5	6	6	N	N	No Conflict Between Scripture and Tradition.	_Scripture and Tradition_ is a short book containing a series of essays by two &quot;Old Calendarist&quot; Bishops regarding the relationship between the Bible and Church Tradition.  The Books contained in the Bible are a compilation of the Hebrew Scriptures, the Deuterocanonical Books and the New Testament.  According to tradition, seventy-two elders from Jerusalem translated the Hebrew Scriptures into Greek for the ruler of Alexandria and the large Jewish community residing there several centuries before Christ.  The Greek Bible, known as the Septuagint, (the LXX or &quot;Book of Seventy&quot;) later became the official Scripture quoted by the early Church and in the writings of the New Testament.  The official canon of the New Testament was not officially formalized until the fourth century, with disputes arising over different books and epistles.  A number of books entered the canon of the Septuagint, which were not originally written in Hebrew.  These became known as the Deuterocanonical Books, or &quot;Apocrypha&quot; (hidden) to Protestants.  The Greek Orthodox, Russian Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Protestant, Nestorian and Ethiopian Churches all have different versions of the Old Testament, depending on which books are included and excluded.  All Churches have the same New Testament except for a small Syrian sect that rejected some of the Catholic (addressed to the Church in general) letters.<br />The authors also write about the concept of Tradition in the Eastern Orthodox Church and how it differs from the Roman Catholic and Protestant Churches.  The Orthodox take a considerable amount of heat because of their position that the Scripture is essentially the same as Tradition.  The canon was formed gradually by the Consensus Patrum or &quot;Mind of the Fathers,&quot; divinely guided by the Holy Spirit in the Tradition of Christ's Apostles.  Scripture and Tradition are inseparable in the liturgy, theology, teaching, mysticism, and experience of the Eastern Church.  If it were not for Tradition teaching the doctrine of the inspiration and infallibility of the Scripture, it would not be held to be the infallible &quot;Word of God&quot; by millions today.  The Catholic Church expounds a doctrine of the &quot;magisterium,&quot; or teaching authority of the church, given official embodiment as the Roman Pontiff.  This is a dangerous position to hold because it fosters a top-down mentality and allows for suspect doctrines to be imposed by Papal mandate on the church.  The Protestant doctrine of &quot;sola scriptura&quot; negates Tradition and attempts to set up its own ahistorical theological setup based on personal interpretations of the Bible.  Personal interpretation of Scripture is a major factor behind schism and even heresy since the dawn of Christianity.  The Bishops cite and examine briefly several major theological writers in Orthodox theological issues including Yannaras, Stephanou, Pomazansky, Galvin, Bulgakov, Bebis, and Florovsky. <br />In conclusion, the Bishops also mention another important point, citing Archimandrite Sophrony's _The Monk of Mount Athos_.  The texts of the Scripture are material, along with the liturgical books and writings of the Fathers themselves.  If these were all to be destroyed or lost (which indeed has happed in ancient Rome and the Soviet terror), the Church would still be able to persevere and maintain true faith maintained by the Holy Spirit in the Church, the Body of Christ.	2004-02-05
US	35854103	R6FA0XWHN9D21	0938635670	806637357	The Apocalypse: In the Teachings of Ancient Christianity	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The Apocalypse:  In the Teachings of Ancient Christianity	_The Apocalypse: In the Teachings of Ancient Christianity_ is Fr. Seraphim Rose's translation of Archbishop Averky's patristic commentary on the controversial New Testament book.  The introduction examines the history of the interpretation of the Apocalypse.  It is an allegorical book that is based on Old Testament symbolism which mystically represent events that will happen at the end of time before the Second Coming of Christ.  The visions of St. John the Theologian on Patmos do not follow any chronological pattern and many speak of the same event using different symbolism.  The Apocalypse shares certain similar characteristics with St. John's Gospel and his three letters, which include mention of the spirit of the Antichrist and Christ as the Lamb of God.  The heresy of Chiliasm, which is the belief in a literal thousand-year reign of Christ on earth, is refuted.  The world will only get worse and worse, and the Antichrist, the Beast arising out of the multitudes of the people of the world, will pretend to &quot;save&quot; the world with a multitude of false, contrived miracles.  He will commit blasphemy against the Christ and mock Him by rebuilding the Temple in Jerusalem as a world center of religions.  The end will come when Christ comes in Glory to judge the living and the dead.  Averky draws heavily from an early Father, St. Andrew, who wrote a commentary on the Apocalypse, as well as adding his insightful comments to the text.  An appendix features an essay discussing the resistance toward the ecumenical movement.  The &quot;politically correct&quot; Church moves toward becoming one amalgamated body devoid of original Christian faith.  Countering this are the conservative elements within all the different denominations that do not want to see any changes to traditional Christian doctrine.  In their own way they are forming a true Church which will remain faithful to Christ in the last days, not following the spirit of this age.	2004-01-27
US	35854103	R38PG779W2XKDU	0201409488	717630149	Zhirinovsky: Russian Fascism And The Making Of A Dictator K/cd Pkg	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Russian Fascism:  Mad Vlad Edelstein	_Zhirinovsky: Russian Fascism and the Making of a Dictator_ is an interesting account of a radical politician who emerged with a popular mass following during the collapse of Communism in the Soviet Union.  Zhirinovsky's platform was to make Russia into a renewed super-power and with its pre-1917 borders, even including Alaska.  He also promoted a strong, totalitarian government and used mass appeals to the base instincts of the people, offering cheaper products and comparing former Soviet regimes to sexual problems (Lenin raping Russia, Stalinist homosexual jealousy and Kruschev's self-satisfied masturbation).  Zhirinovsky appealed to nationalist elements in the Russian population who were upset by Russia's loss of prestige on the international scene, the Russians living in the former Soviet Republics and by rampant inflation and economic distress.  He tries to cultivate an image of himself as a powerful father figure governing the \\"Liberal Democratic Party\\" who will look out for Russia's best interest if everyone submits to his rule.  A number of his statements were openly anti-Jewish, blaming them for Russia's troubles and playing on fears that Russia will be taken over by Western capitalist interests.  The authors, Solovyov (Jewish) and his wife Klepikova (Russian), have written a considerable amount of books on Russia and have lived in exile in New York since the 1970s.  What is interesting is that Zhirinovsky, despite his far-right posturing, is of Jewish extraction.  His father was Wolf Edelstein, a Polish Jew, while his mother was a Russian woman whose last name he adopted, Zhirinovsky.  It is apparent that \\"Zhirinovsky\\" has been on the payroll of the KGB who used him for various spying missions (unsuccessfully) in Turkey.  He was also given an invitation to immigrate to Israel because of his Jewish heritage.  The authors note that Zhirinovsky is basically an actor who may not even believe what he preaches to the masses: a Russian revival.  He does not haveany connection to the Orthodox Church or any other of the elements of traditional Russian culture, but rather a \\"cosmopolitan.\\"  Hopefully a true nationalist movement will arise in Russia or elsewhere, but not one like \\"Mad Vlad's\\" threatening to dump nuclear waste on Estonia, causing more trouble and dissention than he is trying to solve.  In all, an interesting book on a strange character in Russia, but with some odd digressions into psychoanalysis.	2004-01-18
US	35854103	RU61MYZ2H8QQQ	0674076087	63813983	The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression	Books	4	39	50	N	N	When Lower East Side Hipsters Take Over Your Country....	The pretentiousness, the dialectic materialism, the exotic brands of coffee, the black turtlenecks, the pseudo-intellectualism, the goatees....<br />_The Black Book of Communism: Terror, Crimes and Repression_ , published by Harvard University Press, is a huge 800 page volume cataloguing Communist atrocities.  It is divided into several sections: The Soviet Union, Communist terrorism, Eastern Europe, Asian countries including China, North Korea, Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, and Third World nations in Latin America, Africa and Afghanistan.  As another reviewer notes, however, the figures concerning how many people were actually killed by Communists seem to be greatly exaggerated.  If I don't believe that six million Jews were murdered in \\"The Holocaust,\\" then I'm going to be even more hesitant claiming that sixty-five million people were killed in China under Mao Zedong.<br />Communism is by far the most destructive ideology/political system ever imposed to date on the world's nations.  The introduction and foreword to this book go to great extremes to state the case that Communism has killed many more millions and had greater political influence than Nazism ever possessed.  Communism is a universal political/social/economic theory that allows it to \\"metastasize\\" around the world, adapting itself to any given situation, whereas Nazism was a blunt, in-your-face program of \\"national egoism.\\"  Nazism never gained an international following of any consequence whatsoever, while institutions in America, Europe, Latin America and elsewhere are stacked to the ceiling with people who openly promote Marxist theory and are (or were) members of Communist parties.<br />Morality, as the Forward insightfully mentions, as understood today derives from political affiliations rather than any of the world's \\"outdated\\" metaphysical belief systems.  Communism promotes total equality rather than a hierarchy.  It is frequently defended by liberal and humanist scholars who believe Communism is a bulwark against \\"anti-Semitic,\\" \\"redneck,\\" \\"neo-Nazi\\" extremists who are conspiring to exterminate Jews, rape women, enslave Blacks and force homosexuals back \\"into the closet.\\"  These same people have a fondness for the Lower East Side, where the Bolshevik revolutionaries hung out while plotting to overthrow the Tsar before WWI and institute their reign of atheist and Jewish inspired terror.<br />The people behind the authorship and promotion of this book are rather interesting as well.  The seven French authors who researched and compiled the book are left-wing ex-Marxists.  Furthermore, _The Black Book_ was translated from French into English and published by Harvard University, not necessarily the most conservative institution.m is a bulwark against \\"anti-Semitic,\\" \\"redneck,\\" \\"neo-Nazi\\" extremists who are conspiring to exterminate Jews, rape women, enslave Blacks and force homosexuals back \\"into the closet.\\"  These same people have a fondness for the Lower East Side, where the Bolshevik revolutionaries hung out while plotting to overthrow the Tsar before WWI and institute their reign of atheist and Jewish inspired terror.<br />The people behind the authorship and promotion of this book are rather interesting as well.  The seven French authors who researched and compiled the book are left-wing ex-Marxists.  Furthermore, _The Black Book_ was translated from French into English and published by Harvard University, not necessarily the most conservative institution.	2004-01-18
US	35854103	RBOVNLW2O2QQK	0912141026	359090059	The Antichrist	Books	5	40	45	N	N	A Demonology needed for correct Christology	_The Antichrist: Has he launched his final campaign against the Savior ?_ by a Jesuit priest, Miceli, is a mysterious book about the Antichrist and the power of evil personified.  In the introduction, Miceli explains the need for a \\"demonology\\" without which true Christology is little understood.  Starting with the Old and New Testament prophecies of the End Times, it is clear that the Antichrist will be a man whose basic goal is to place himself as ruler of the world and persecute the Church in any way possible.  Christ, Greek for the Hebrew \\"Messiah\\" means, \\"anointed one\\", as Christ is the Anointed One of God.  The Greek prefix \\"anti\\" means simultaneously \\"against\\" and \\"in place of.\\"  Therefore, the Antichrist will not be merely against Christ in the literal sense, he will be the personification of Satan's attempt to supplant God's will and introduce his own.  Miceli then devotes space to the Greek and Latin Fathers, along with medieval theologians and what they wrote about the Antichrist. They believed that he will be of Jewish heritage with origins in Babylon (which is present day Iraq, by the way), and will rebuild the Jewish Temple (presently the site of the Islamic Dome of the Rock).  All the peoples of the world will bow to his rule as Christ incarnate, as he deceives the world with many false miracles and spectacles, pretending to be a teacher of universal enlightenment, peace, brotherhood and love.  His reign will become hell on earth, as God pours out his wrath on Earth for the sins of humankind.  The final battle will be between the Antichrist's assembled worldly forces and Christ at His Second Coming.<br />Miceli devotes a lot of space to the writings of Newman, an Anglican churchman who converted to Catholicism in 19th century England wrote a great volume of material concerning the spiritual deception that Western Christians have faced.  It may even be that the Antichrist's persecution of the Church will not in fact be of a physically violent nature.Possibly it could be a much more insidious psychological attack against Christ and his Church on all fronts.  Christianity will be held up to ridicule as an outdated religion of ignoramuses, while all sorts of neo-Gnostic philosophies will be extolled instead (examples of which can be seen today are New Age, dialectic materialism, Darwinism, liberalism, feminism, post-modernism, existentialism, to name a few).<br />The radical political affairs of the 20th century are also sure signs of the coming of the Antichrist.  Nazism and Communism have unleashed warfare and bloodbaths unseen at any previous point in human history.  Hitler, Mussolini and the Communist revolutionaries (Stalin, Mao, Castro, Che Guevara, et al.) are modern forerunners to the Antichrist because both of them tried to create man made utopias based upon totalitarian state-control of society.  The Western democracies, particularly the Churchill, FDR and Kennedy administrations also share in the (dis)honor of being forerunners to the Antichrist as well.  Churchill and FDR refused to stand up to the Soviet Union after WWII and allowed Eastern Europe to fall to Communism.  Kennedy betrayed the Catholic Diem Government in Vietnam and ordered its overthrow.<br />The \\"modern shadow of the Antichrist\\" in the Middle East today is the Zionist State of Israel.  Israel, founded on Jewish nationalism and a lust for worldly power, with its nuclear arsenal, military prowess and air-tight relationship with the United States make it the center of gravity of the Antichrist's one-world state.<br />Miceli also discusses the heretical elements in the Catholic Church being pre-cursor to the Antichrist as well.  He is rather suspicious of the liturgical \\"reforms\\" made since Vatican II and the pontificate of Pope John XXVIII.  He sites the demands made by radicals within the laity to make the Roman Church up to date with avant-garde political and theological liberalism.  Miceli writes that the liberals like to make fun of the Church because of its \\"allegedly intransigent, dogmatic, authoritarian, rigid, anti-Semitic, legalistic, Constantinian, triumphant, Roman posture and policies.\\"  <br />The last couple of sections of _The Antichrist_ discuss the \\"Apocalyptic atmosphere\\" of modern day society.  Distorted sexual roles which are a feature of pagan fertility rites along with open Satanism and the meaningless mayhem of rock n' roll are all contributing to the spirit of Antichrist in pop-culture.  Upon the ashes of this nihilistic, hedonistic rubble will arise what is labeled the \\"Moloch state,\\" named after the Old Testament false god whose followers performed human-sacrifice.  Moloch will be the synthesis of Western decadence, secular humanism, Communism, Nazism, Zionism and outright Satanism that will look like \\"1984\\" and \\"Brave New World.\\"  The state will control everybody and everything for its own power and all notions of humanity and the individual person as the \\"image of God\\" will be erased.  Miceli, to his credit, devotes some space to extolling the rise of Islamic fundamentalism in the Middle East.  Although Islam and Christianity share some irreconcilable theological differences, they are mainly in areas where Islam negates several Christian dogmas (most importantly the Divinity of Christ).  Muslims, however, share a similar devotion to Jesus Christ and believe that Jesus was born of the Virgin Mary.  The appendix is a selection of quotations, \\"Dark Pieces on the Antichrist.\\"<br />A great book on the Antichrist and the nature of evil in the world.  It recognizes that the Roman Empire was the force that St. Paul says is keeping Satan bound until the end times, but he does not speculate that this \\"seal\\" was the Czar of Russia, who was the successor to Constantine as protector of the Church.	2004-01-18
US	35854103	RXXRD91D5YXVK	188821211X	432215923	Orthodox Study Bible; New Testament and Psalms	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An Orthodox Study Bible	_The Orthodox Study Bible: New Testament and Psalms_ is the only Eastern Orthodox study Bible available. This edition only contains the New Testament and the Psalms of the New King James translation. The text is commentated upon by notes giving the Orthodox teaching on Scripture. Currently, scholars at St. Athanasius Seminary are at work translating the entire Bible from the Septuagint, and will include the entire canonical Old Testament, including the Deutero-Canonical books (or as known to Protestants, the &quot;Apocrypha&quot;) that are in the Greek Septuagint but not the Hebrew Bible. This edition contains information on how the Bible is viewed in the Orthodox Church, an outline of Orthodox history, tips on how the Bible is to be studied, a glossary of Orthodox Terms, a list of the Seventy, the lectionary and Orthodox prayers. The Canon of Scripture was decided AFTER the Ecumenical Council of Nicea, in which the Nicean Creed was drawn up as the statement of Orthodoxy, thus the Scripture is given its authority by the Church, and Scripture forms the centerpiece of the Church's Tradition dating from Christ and His Apostles. As another reviewer noted, this edition is a &quot;who's who&quot; of Orthodoxy, including Peter E. Gilquist, Jack Norman Sparks, Archbishop JAKOVOS, Bishop KALLISTOS, Bishop MAXIMOS and Fr. Anthondy Coniaris.	2004-01-12
US	35854103	R3JJBZI6Q6SUK8	9998341981	31363649	The Rulers of Russia	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Let Russia Arise from "Judeo-Masonic" Domination!	_The Rulers of Russia_ by Rev. Denis Fahey, an Irish Catholic priest, is about the Jewish government of Russia imposed by the Bolshevik takeover of Russia after the overthrow of Nicholas II.  It was originally published during the Second World War as a supplement to Fahey's main book concerning the conflict between the Roman Catholic Church and Judaism, _The Mystical Body of Christ_.  Ever since Christ's Crucifixion, explains Fahey, the \\"supernatural order\\" of Christ has been opposed by the \\"natural order\\" deriving from the race/religion of the Jews and various offshoot cults such as the Freemasons.  The Jews are in a conspiracy to overthrow the Mass and the authority of the Church in all areas of the world.  The reasons for this conflict is because the Jews rejected Christ as the supernatural Messias and seek of their own will the \\"natural\\" Messias, who will place the world under the power of international Jewry.  Various anti-Christian campaigns have been launched to further this plan.  International finance and liberal, capitalist democracies and republics are controlled from above, which are apparently opposed by radical, communist and socialist revolutionaries from below.  The trick is Jews and the demonic force behind them control both sides of this conflict.<br />This book is rather unique because it is anti-Nazi as well as anti-Jewish.  Fahey divides the powers of the world into two categories: the \\"Judeo-Masonic\\" democracies (including the Soviet Union) that have their economies under the thumb of Jewish bankers versus the reactionary fascist nations of Germany, Italy and Japan.  These fascist countries were free from Judeo-Masonic control of their economies, and Nazism in Germany was militantly anti-Jewish.  What is unusual about German National Socialism is it followed the same \\"naturalistic\\" principle, which is behind Jewish world power.  Nazism seeks to supplant the Christian view of the world with the deification of the Aryan race.  Furthermore, mention is made of the secret occult lodges that sought to emulate the heretical Knights Templar and that formed the Nazi movement based on the 19th century German Idealist philosophers.  Although Hitler made statements in public that the Third Reich was not persecuting Christians, in particular Catholics, Fahey quotes high ranking Church officials who attest to the Nazi deception of Christians.  Fahey remarks that the Third Reich and Herr Hitler are doomed in the face of overwhelming hostility from the combined might of Jewish finance which has the arsenal of Great Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union at its disposal.  The only countries for whom Fahey has much sympathy are Francisco Franco's Spain and Poland's Catholic nationalism, which resisted both Nazi and Soviet encroachments, despite Poland's being a pawn of the Britain and France to stir up trouble with Germany.  The conclusion to this pamphlet is a traditional Catholic take on democracy.  The current \\"Judeo-Masonic\\" democracy in America is illegitimate because it does not rest on God for its ultimate authority, but instead refers to the \\"common will\\" of the people as if it was infallible.  Regrettably, no mention is made of Orthodox Christianity itself inside Russia in the face of Bolshevik persecution.n is made of the secret occult lodges that sought to emulate the heretical Knights Templar and that formed the Nazi movement based on the 19th century German Idealist philosophers.  Although Hitler made statements in public that the Third Reich was not persecuting Christians, in particular Catholics, Fahey quotes high ranking Church officials who attest to the Nazi deception of Christians.  Fahey remarks that the Third Reich and Herr Hitler are doomed in the face of overwhelming hostility from the combined might of Jewish finance which has the arsenal of Great Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union at its disposal.  The only countries for whom Fahey has much sympathy are Francisco Franco's Spain and Poland's Catholic nationalism, which resisted both Nazi and Soviet encroachments, despite Poland's being a pawn of the Britain and France to stir up trouble with Germany.  The conclusion to this pamphlet is a traditional Catholic take on democracy.  The current \\"Judeo-Masonic\\" democracy in America is illegitimate because it does not rest on God for its ultimate authority, but instead refers to the \\"common will\\" of the people as if it was infallible.  Regrettably, no mention is made of Orthodox Christianity itself inside Russia in the face of Bolshevik persecution.	2003-12-30
US	35854103	RZ676V99O4JV9	0891073795	684936305	Marx & Satan	Books	4	75	86	N	N	Karl Marx, High Priest of Satan!	\\"The good of the workers was only a pretense.  Where proletarians do not fight for Socialist ideals, Marxists will exploit racial differences or the so-called generation gap.  The main thing is, religion must be destroyed.\\"<br />_Marx and Satan_ by Richard Wurmbrand is a small book that advances the theory that Karl Marx was a member of a Satanic cult.  To this affect, Wurmbrand, a Lutheran pastor who had been imprisoned by Communist authorities in Romania, cites many examples of Marx's poetry and personal writings.  He also delves into the backgrounds of other members of the early communist/socialist movements, notably Frederick Engels and Moses Hess.  Marx was born a Jew, however he was baptized at age seven for his family's business reasons.  It appears that Marx may have been devout in his early years, but he later turned against Christianity with a vengeance.  Marx's poetry contains references to overthrowing God and having himself [Marx] reign in His stead.  Despite his current reputation in liberal academia as a champion of the rights of the poor, Marx made many disparaging comments about the poor and unenlightened.  Despite his pretenses as being a champion of the exploited classes, the poor have generally in history been the ones least likely to change their \\"primitive\\" worldview in the face of drastic social change.  Most of those committed to Communist/Marxist ideology in America are those from well-educated, upwardly mobile types who think they are \\"enlightened\\" about humanity's true condition.  Marx called the Slavs and Russians of Eastern Europe scum and reactionary people.  Curiously, he polemicizes against his own people the Jews, characterizing them as supporters of tyrants and as capitalist exploiters.  The biggest issue that liberals (who are basically \\"softcore Marxists\\" that use subtle propaganda rather than open revolutionary violence) have with the world is the influence that traditional religion, in particular, Christianity, wields.  This means the belief that mankind is not merely the product of material (i.e. economic, evolutionary, sexual, biological, etc.) drives, but rather the product of a reflected divine nature.  Wurmbrand speculates that Marx may in fact have been a Satanic high priest.  It makes sense that a Satanic cult would use classical Marxism as a front to achieve its ends in destroying the worship of Christ.  Communism, as articulated in Marx and Engles' _Communist Manifesto_, states that human society is the product of competition between various classes of economic status.  Marx revels in that the bourgeoisie businessmen and merchants destroyed Europe's old feudal structure, but that current setup would be violently overthrown by the proletariat, the common masses of humanity.  His fellow revolutionary and propagandist #1 is the mysterious Robin Goodfellow, who is the spirit of revolution and Shakespeare's \\"knavish spirit that misleads nightwanderers, laughing at their harm.\\"  Marx's demands for radical social revolution have been institutionalized in the government, academia, and even in many churches today, furthering the humanist New World Order based on the Luciferian principle of autonomy and rebellion against the Divine Order.  Satanism reverses opposites and tries to turn black into white, right into wrong.  Marxism/Communism is not about helping the poor achieve economic equity (\\"the poor you will have with you always\\"), but about Satanic rebellion and the destruction of Christ's Church.<br />There are some problems with _Marx and Satan_.  One glaring irregularity is Wurmbrand's statement that the Satanic cult is \\"older than Christianity.\\"  Christianity is just a more recent name for the worship of He Who Is, rather than Satanism, the worship of transgression and rebellion.  He is also off when he supports Theodore Herzel's Zionism.  On a positive note, _Marx and Satan_ is not written in a spiteful manner towards its subjects, but rather with an attitude of compassion and repentance.  <br />Also recommended about the unusual beliefs of the founders of socialism: _Moses Hess: Prophet of Communism and Zionism_ by Avineri.	2003-12-26
US	35854103	R1VO9VN2WYRW5O	0814731554	415098107	Black Sun: Aryan Cults, Esoteric Nazism, and the Politics of Identity	Books	5	18	26	N	N	Black Sun!  An informative book on Nazi occultism	_Black Sun: Aryan Cults, Esoteric Nazism and the Politics of Identity_ by the scholar Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke is an excellent overview of the extremely bizarre beliefs and personages involved in neo-Nazi occultism.  I will keep this review short for the sake of not flogging a dead horse.  <br />The cover features the \\"Black Sun,\\" supposedly a mystical Aryan symbol representing the pure and undiluted blood and power of the Germanic race, inscribed on the floor of Himmler's SS castle-headquarters.  The book itself is very well written and logically organized.  Neo-Nazi and pagan cosmology, Christian Identity beliefs regarding the Bible and New Age (i.e. anti-Christian) conspiracy theories (best exemplified by anarcho-libertarians Bill Cooper and David Icke) have striking similarities to the ancient dualist heresies of Gnosticism and Manicheanism.  _Black Sun_ is an excellent book for anyone interested in the world's dark undercurrents of religious extremism and elitist beliefs about the cosmic clash of good versus evil manifested on the material plane.	2003-12-26
US	35854103	R1OFF0X25C2FQI	1928653073	438570623	A Rumor of War: Christ's Millennial Reign and the Rapture of His Church	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Orthodox Christian teachings on the Millennium	Engleman's _A Rumor of War: Christ's Millennial Reign and the Rapture of His Church_ is an excellent metahistory spanning from Lucifer's Fall from celestial glory to the Second Coming of Christ.  The cover features a mosaic of St. John the Evangelist symbolized by a multi-winged bird soaring through the clouds carrying a book (the Gospel).  It offers an Eastern Orthodox perspective on Jesus' controversial teachings regarding the Kingdom of God, the Rapture, the first and second resurrections, and the seal that binds Satan.  It is written, as a sequel to Engleman's other book dealing specifically with the End Times, _Ultimate Things_, and also to debunk the false dispensationalist speculation of a pre-Tribulation rapture.  Engleman quotes from a variety of ancient Church Fathers, in particular St. Augustine's _City of God_.  <br />Before God created Man, earth and the material universe, He created the angels.  Angels are beings of pure intelligence without physical bodies.  Lucifer (the Bearer of Light, as &quot;even Satan can pose as an angel of righteousness&quot;) was the greatest of the angels, and he rejected God's authority in heaven.  In his rebellion, he brought down one-third of the angelic host.  Lucifer, also known as &quot;Satan,&quot; meaning &quot;adversary&quot; was given domain &quot;over the power of the air.&quot;  This refers to a spiritual world that is higher than earth but lower than heaven from where Satan can tempt man.  Engleman posits that God allowed Adam and Eve fall from glory in the Garden of Eden so that Christ could eventually redeem them and fill the space in heaven left remaining by the fallen angels.<br />Although Satan had fallen humanity in his power, Christ redeemed man by his sacrificial death on the Cross.  The Church was instituted by Christ through His Apostles to offer salvation to man in the Eucharist, the literal Body and Blood of Christ, understood as partaking in the first resurrection.  At Christ's resurrection, Satan was bound &quot;for a thousand years&quot; (the Millennium) and a seal placed on him.  Some among the Holy Fathers believed that the seal that kept Satan in check was the authority of the Roman Empire.  This ties in with Jesus prophecies that the Old Testament agreement with Israel would be handed to a nation &quot;bearing the fruits thereof.&quot;  Rome fell to heresy and barbarian invasions, while St. Constantine the Great moved the capital of the Empire to the Greek City of Byzantium.  Constantinople fell to the Muslim Turks in 1453 and the only Orthodox nation left at that time was Russia.  The Grand Duke of Moscow became known as &quot;Czar&quot;/Caesar and was considered the official guardian of Orthodox Christianity.  However, Communist revolutionaries assassinated the last Czar, St. Nicholas II, on July 17th, 1918, which Engleman dates as the official unbinding of Satan in today's world.  To this effect, Engleman cites the strange rock n' roll song  &quot;Sympathy for the Devil&quot; by Mick Jagger, as a veiled demonic revelation, where Satan brags that he &quot;killed the czar and his ministers&quot; among other atrocities.<br />The Millennium is the period of Christ's Church on earth that was free to convert and sanctify its members with official Roman protection.  The saints are a visible manifestation of Christ reigning in heaven.  This Millennium is to be understood as an allegory of symbolic of the Church rather than in a political, materialist sense.  Also, it does not have to be exactly one thousand years in length, as St. Peter notes that \\"a day with the lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.\\"  During the Millennium Satan could only operate behind the scenes and not against the Orthodox Church openly, but with the removal of the seal, the Church was once again under official state persecution as it was in the ancient Roman Empire.<br />The world is approaching closer to the reign of Antichrist, although exactly who he remains unknown.  He will be a manifestation of all the worldly heretical currents directed against traditional Christianity.  The pre-Tribulation Rapture theory popular among evangelical Christians is a recent concoction dating from the 19th century revivalist Darby who based a &quot;secret&quot; coming of Christ before the tribulation on a radical misinterpretation of a handful of Scripture passages.  Jesus is emphatic that the Christians will suffer in this life for him during a great martyrdom and persecution.  Christians who are too deeply entrenched in the pre-Tribulation Rapture belief are less likely to recognize the Antichrist when he manifests his power.  Christ's Second Coming will not be in secret, but &quot;like lightning coming from the east to west.&quot;  The entire world will know in an instant that Christ has come in the midst of its apostasy.  The only ones who will be expecting this are the handfuls of Christians who have managed to keep the Faith in the midst of the world's dissolution under the Satanic tyranny of the Antichrist.	2003-12-23
US	35854103	R31PT5D99SHEAO	0938635522	40554790	Not of This World: The Life and Teaching of Fr. Seraphim Rose	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Pathfinder to the Heart of Ancient Christianity	_Not of This World: The Life and Teaching of Fr. Seraphim Rose, Pathfinder to the Heart of Ancient Christianity_ by Monk Damascene is an excellent biography of an American who converted to the Russian Orthodox Church (ROCOR) and founded the St. Herman of Alaska monastery and printing house in the mountains and forests of northern California.  Probably his most well known book is _Orthodoxy and the Religion of the Future_ in which Fr. Seraphim examined today's bizarre spiritual phenomena, such as charismatic Christianity, UFO encounters and eastern religious cults in the light of ancient Orthodox Church teaching.  Fr. Seraphim is also the author of _The Soul After Death_, which describes the Orthodox doctrine on the spirit realm and life after death.  His magnum opus, _The Kingdom of Man and the Kingdom of God_, a metahistorical study of Man's attempt to supplement God's Kingdom with an earthly Utopia in this life, remained incomplete.<br />There seems to be a lot of controversy surrounding _Not of This World_, it being &quot;written with an agenda.&quot;  This is ridiculous, seeing as how every single book ever published has been written with an agenda, consciously or unconsciously, for good or for ill.  This is a great book on a man who rejected the materialist &quot;American Dream&quot; and traveled the cross-bearing, ascetic path of Christ.<br />Born Eugene Rose, Fr. Seraphim's early years were wrought with much spiritual seeking.  He at first embraced Nietzsche's nihilistic philosophy, but also became interested in Zen Buddhism and the writings of Rene Guenon.  Through Guenon, Rose realized the need for an authentic religious tradition.  However great Guenon's metaphysical thought was however, the true Faith was only to be realized in Truth Incarnate Jesus Christ.<br />A large proportion of the material in this book is from Fr. Herman (Gleb Podmoshensky), a Russian &eacute;migr&eacute; who aided Fr. Seraphim in establishing the St. Herman Skete.  A host of different bishops, priests, missionaries, and groups is examined in detail, including Archbishop John, Archbishop Averky, and Bishop Nektary.<br />A predominant theme in the book is the brotherhood's struggle with the Church hierarchy.  This book appears to be radically &quot;right-wing&quot; and anti-establishment, but in fact Fr. Seraphim criticized both the far right &quot;the ultra-correct group&quot; and the left wing/liberal groups and trendy theological innovators in the Church.  He emphasized the \\"Orthodoxy of the Heart,\\" without pretenses, squabbling and rule-mongering.<br />The end of _Not of This World_ deals with Fr. Seraphim's emphasis on the Apocalypse, and the crumbling structures of the word's churches, and the eminent reign of the Antichrist.  What motivated him to work so hard for his faith was &quot;it is later than you think.&quot;  Fr. Seraphim's books have been more widespread in Russia than in America, and it is hoped that &quot;Russia will arise&quot; in a Christian Orthodox revival before the end comes.  He died at the age of forty-eight after a stomach ailment, and appears to be the candidate to be the first Orthodox American convert Saint.<br />The book does get tedious and bogged down in minutiae in some areas, in addition to highlight the fighting going on in the Russian Church.  But in all, a great book on Orthodoxy, a modern day American &quot;beatnik&quot; intellectual's journey into it, and the spiritual crisis of our age., priests, missionaries, and groups is examined in detail, including Archbishop John, Archbishop Averky, and Bishop Nektary.<br />A predominant theme in the book is the brotherhood's struggle with the Church hierarchy.  This book appears to be radically &quot;right-wing&quot; and anti-establishment, but in fact Fr. Seraphim criticized both the far right &quot;the ultra-correct group&quot; and the left wing/liberal groups and trendy theological innovators in the Church.  He emphasized the \\"Orthodoxy of the Heart,\\" without pretenses, squabbling and rule-mongering.<br />The end of _Not of This World_ deals with Fr. Seraphim's emphasis on the Apocalypse, and the crumbling structures of the word's churches, and the eminent reign of the Antichrist.  What motivated him to work so hard for his faith was &quot;it is later than you think.&quot;  Fr. Seraphim's books have been more widespread in Russia than in America, and it is hoped that &quot;Russia will arise&quot; in a Christian Orthodox revival before the end comes.  He died at the age of forty-eight after a stomach ailment, and appears to be the candidate to be the first Orthodox American convert Saint.<br />The book does get tedious and bogged down in minutiae in some areas, in addition to highlight the fighting going on in the Russian Church.  But in all, a great book on Orthodoxy, a modern day American &quot;beatnik&quot; intellectual's journey into it, and the spiritual crisis of our age.	2003-12-09
US	35854103	RDNS3EHAAUHO9	0917651367	592514228	Dancing Alone: The Quest for Orthodox Faith in the Age of False Religion	Books	3	15	20	N	N	America: The failed Puritan, Romantic, Secular Utopia.	_Dancing Alone: The Quest for Orthodox Faith in the Age of False Religion_ by Frank Schaeffer is an attack on the current secularized American society from the perspective of a convert into the Orthodox Church.  Shaeffer acknowledges that his book is not supposed to be scholarly, and that any errors in it are his own.  First the negative things about _Dancing Alone_, and then I will describe what the books strengths are.  It is typeset in some kind of goofy, rounded font where the \\"C's\\" look like \\"G's\\" which makes the text hard to concentrate on.  The writing in the second half of the book is close to being done at random.  Shaeffer makes endless references to Protestantism and to a lesser extent to Roman Catholicism and how they differ from Orthodox Christianity.  The problem is that he tends, as another commentator noted, to make many vague generalizations about Protestantism.  Protestants come in all shapes in sizes, and Schaeffer provides no research or insight into the specific differences between them, or how their different sects arose so that his statements could be placed in a more tangible context.  He does not strike at the root of the problem by simply blaming Protestantism for the rise of modern secular society.  Protestantism undoubtedly played a major role, but was not necessarily the sole determining factor.  Also, Schaeffer goes way overboard in denigrating St. Augustine.  Although St. Augustine did make some minor errors in his teachings on grace, he was not a \\"Calvinist\\" or a determinist in today's definition.  St. Augustine's foibles do not take away, as Fr. Rose explains in his book on the controversy, St. Augustine's status as \\"a Father of Orthodox piety.\\"<br />Now for the strong and insightful parts of Schaeffer's book, which is mostly contained in the first half.  He is so radical that it is difficult to place him in any specific American political tradition, especially considering his criticism of Protestantism.  He really is \\"dancing alone\\"as the title indicates.  Schaeffer traces the Western deviation from St. Augustine's \\"overly rational\\" theology that took root in the Western Church under the Roman Popes.  After the schism between the Latin speaking West and the Greek speaking East, the Roman Catholic Church officially adopted the theology of Thomas Aquinas.  Aquinas' theology was extremely rational, seeking its basis in the Greek philosophy particularly of Aristotle.  The Roman Church developed a system of indulgences and the doctrine of Purgatory.  Martin Luther, in his own interpretation of the Bible, condemned the Catholic practices as an unwarranted addition to the Scriptural teachings.  The Protestant Reformation he touched off acted in reaction to many Catholic practices, which were derived from the original Orthodox Church.  Protestantism became radically opposed to many sacramental aspects of the Christian tradition, particularly Calvinism and the Anabaptists.  Calvinism came to influence the ultra-rationalistic notion of an entire mechanistic universe that God had predetermined according to set natural laws which could be quantified and expressed in mathematical equations.  Anabaptism and the other groups of the \\"radical Reformation\\" brought subjective individualism to the Christian experience, instead of relying on the authority of Apostolic tradition.  This has paved the way for feel-good materialism, Romanticism and the lack of unity when it comes to Church teachings and theological questions.  As Protestant Christianity became either dry and rational on one end and wild and crazy on the other, modernism and materialism set in under the Capitalist and later Communist and Socialist varieties.  The common heresy throughout all these groups is that they seek to replace God's revealed Truth with a kingdom of God on earth that is perfected through Human action.  The road to Hell is indeed paved with good intentions.  Calvin set up a dictatorship in Geneva, which ironically in many aspectswas similar to Communist tyranny.  The two movements had the similar goal of legislating morality to shape mankind.  Such movements are bound to crash and burn eventually because they simply cannot accomplish what they do because of humanity's fallen nature.  This has carried over into the founding of America following Revolutionary War.  Contemporary American culture has developed from seemingly unrelated ideologies: rigid, self-righteous Puritanism; Romantic belief in good outcomes and progress; materialism embodied in the \\"American Dream\\"; militant secularism; a neo-conservatism which is actually the same as classical liberalism, and a host of others.  One strong point of Schaeffer's book is how he notes the failure of the \\"secular right.\\"  Despite the entire liberal whining about Ronald Regean, Pat Robertson, Jerry Falwell, Rush Limbaugh, George W. Bush, Richard Nixon and Bill O'Reilly, none of the \\"conservative\\" Presidential administrations have done anything to stop the flood of social liberalism.  Today's academic conservatives are mostly concerned with economics.  Instead of classical Marxism, Adam Smith's free market will bring salvation to the world.  Despite the outward success of the West, an ungodly, anti-traditional, anti-Christian void beneath its surface is revealed.  All in all, Schaeffer's _Dancing Alone_is a good book, but not a great one.  He is definitely onto something very interesting in his outlook on American culture.	2003-12-05
US	35854103	R1NES8X3ZPP5TQ	0895554623	208260469	The Crisis Of Civilization	Books	5	75	83	N	N	Finally, a Right Wing Attack on Capitalism.	Hillaire Belloc's _The Crisis of Civilization_ is a reactionary polemic against runaway capitalist greed and the subsequent demands of international communism first published in 1937.  The tone of this book is probably treasonous to many Amercans because of the disparaging comments about Capitalism and free-market economies.  Belloc traces the history of Western Civilization from the rise of the Roman Empire to the state of the world in the twentieth century.  The Roman Empire, which largely took on the philosophical initiative of the Greeks, was possessed of great organizational strength.  However, the Roman Empire's prosperous economy was based on slavery and an overwhelming sense of despair prevailed.  This was the setting where Christianity arrived to take center stage.  Belloc describes the early Catholic Church much the say way as today's liberal historians: as an oriental mystery cult with a anthropomorphic God who died and rose again.  The difference between the other mystery religions and the Christian Church was that the Church took the Death and Resurrection of Chirst as a literal truth rather than as a symbol standing for something else.  Later theological and philosophical thought became more and more definite and less speculative as Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire.  Belloc then goes on to describe the assault that the rise of Islam carried out on the Christian areas of the eastern Roman Empire under Constantinople.  Europe would have become Muslim if Western Europe had not defeated Islam at Tours and later launched the Crusades which temporarily delivered the Holy Land back into Christian hands.  Belloc regrets the subsequent schism between the Roman Church and the Eastern Church based in Constantinople.  Feudalism was the form of government in Medieval Europe, where one's position was based upon status and hierarchical rank.  Under this system, the peasantry gradually became more and more economically independent either as agricultural workers or small-business artisans.  The guild system set up provided economic security to its members although it did not attempt to make everyone \\"equal.\\"  Competition was limited so that underselling from competitors did not swamp the lesser members of the guild out. This was so that monopolies could not be formed.  Usury, the taking of interest on non-productive loans, was viewed as a sin and forbidden by Church law among Christians.  Belloc does not idealize Medieval Europe, however.  He relates how the Catholic Church became a \\"religious reign of terror\\" in the late middle ages.  The Church had lost much of its moral authority because of the massive amount of material wealth it had accrued, particularly its extensive land holdings.  The Church thus had to maintain its control by brute force.  If a government has moral authority and goes in accord with human nature it does not have to resort to arbitrary tyranny to keep the peace.  In some cases of heresy, the harsh retributions carried out reflected popular outrage at someone who would act destructively towards the Christian unity of society.  Belloc likens these instances of rooting out heresy to the lynchings carried out in the South where law enforcement was not functioning properly.  The Protestant Reformation, initiated by Luther against some Catholic practices, utterly destroyed the Catholic Christian unity of Western Europe.  The result was a multitude of varying denominations all claiming to be possessed of the true faith but were rather groups following their own wills based on either personal ahistorical misinterpretations of the Bible or political agendas behind splits with the Catholic Church.  King Henry VIII lined the English nobility's pockets when he broke from Rome and looted England's monasteries.  Calvinism in particular was especially dangerous to the Catholic Church as it had the most complete system of theology, a well organized structure, and an international appeal.  Thechief errors of Calvinism were that it culminated in the belief that God's universe was mechanistic and deprived man of free will in matters of right and wrong.  It denied that the Eucharist was the literal Body and Blood of Jesus Christ, a dogma held by the Church from the beginning.  After the Reformation, Capitalism began to arise.  The traditional restraints placed upon usury were also removed.  Capitalism and the Proletariat came with a vengeance in the 19th century.  Industrialization produced nations of sweltering slums.  Small businesses were unable to compete with massive conglomerates.  Wealth became controlled by the few and the majority of the people were, in Marxist terminology, \\"wage slaves.\\"  Communism, as Belloc notes, was the natural reaction of despair to Capitalist exploitation.  Communism was doomed to fail because it was only the bastard child of Capitalism and its idea of a man totally shaped by his economic circumstances goes against the organic and occasionally irrational nature of humanity.  The dangers of radical leftism are well known.  The French Revolution attacked the Catholic clergy in France as being \\"counter-revolutionary.\\"  The Russian Revolution savaged the Orthodox Church, trying to completely divorce Russia from her spiritual tradition.  At the time _Crisis of Civilization_ was first published the Spanish Civil War was raging.  In this case the counter-revolutionary forces of Francisco Franco aided by Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany was successful against leftist insurgents by adopting their tactics.  Belloc concludes that a return to the guild system, a decentralized, non-competitive economy backed by law might have a chance at reversing the decay of society.  This would not create any type of utopia on earth, but it would grant greater economic freedom with more people running their own businesses and a greater distribution of private property.  Belloc notes that the problem with this system (which has been labeled \\"distributivism\\"), is that it presupposes the Christian faith as a basis for society and a prohibition against usury for it to be implemented.  This book will definitely be of interest to those who are seeking a \\"third way\\" between neo-conservative/classical liberal capitalism (the Republicans) on one hand and the socialist left (the Democrats) on the other.	2003-11-27
US	35854103	R3BXJB4L2VO5BY	0826414095	681431777	Unholy Alliance: A History of Nazi Involvement with the Occult	Books	3	29	44	N	N	The Nazi Cult	_Unholy Alliance: A History of Nazi Involvement with the Occult_ by Peter Levenda is a bizarre book on how Nazism was created by right-wing extremist occult secret societies after the First World War.  The back cover says the book will appeal to an audience anxious about something great and unseen, beyond morality and our individual perceptions of reality, that is \\"constricting our existence.\\"  This certainly describes me.  _Unholy Alliance_ begins with the author's first person narrative of a trip he made to Chile back in the seventies to investigate a rumored Nazi compound known as Colonia Dignidad, which apparently served as a torture center for Pinochet's regime.  Levenda's history of occult Nazism begins describing the histories of Madame Blavatsky's Theosophy and Alestier Crowley: the British occultist who founded the OTO (Order of the Eastern Temple) known for his practice of sex-magic.  The \\"volkish\\" pagan mystic Guido von List and the ex-Cistercian monk Lanz von Leibenfels promoted esoteric metaphysical theories concerning the secret history of the Aryan/Germanic race and the corrupting nature of Christianity and Judaism.  The \\"volkish\\" paganism they expounded rejected Christianity, the Jews, democracy and modernism.  They romanticized the German peasantry and traditional, irrational, cultic beliefs and rituals, and placed an emphasis on the organic unity of the race, (the \\"volk,\\") and nation.  The mythical Holy Grail was viewed as an Aryan symbol, not the container of Christ's blood, but instead a metaphor for the racially pure blood of the German race.  _Ostara_ was a noted occultist publication in this genre and Hitler was among its readers.  Following World War I, Germany was a shambles and faced a takeover by socialists and communists.  The Thule Society was formed to promote a nationalist reaction against the forces of revolution.  The Thule created the German National Socialist Worker's Party/Nazi Party to appeal to a wide working class audience.  Hitler, according to Levenda, was a product of the occult societies.  _Mein Kampf_ is dedicated to Hitler's mentor, Dietrich Eckhardt, a proto-Nazi poet and mystic.  Levenda documents the role that secret societies, astrologers, psychics and assorted mystics played in the Third Reich and the British intelligence service during the war.  Rudolf Hess, Hitler's deputy; Heinrich Himmler, the fuhrer of the SS; Alfred Rosenburg, a Nazi philosopher and Haushaufer, the chief Nazi geo-politician, were all seriously involved in occult theories and doctrines.  After the defeat of the Third Reich, the SS, inspired by the memory of Gnosticism, Manicheanism, the Knights Templar, the Cathars, and the Arthurian guardians of the Holy Grail, went underground.  Nazism gets credit for being a religiously anti-modern philosophy, but remaining anti-Christian, millenarian, utopian, and romantic in character.  Even Charles Manson is mentioned--and it appears that the Sharon Tate murders served some kind of obscure propaganda purpose.  Manson, who wanted to provoke a race war and admired Hitler, even carving a swastika on his forehead, ironically tends to reinforce the Nazi image of short, bearded, brown-eyed men ravishing attractive blonde women.  Levenda maintains that the Nazis still exercise an influence in the world today from their secret Chilean hideout in the Andes Mountains.  He claims that Nazis orchestrated the coup against the leftist Salvador Allede in Chile and funded domestic terrorism in the United States.  Although Colonia Dignidad is certainly an odd place, it is questionable that it is a center of gravity for a global Nazi underground conspiracy against democracy, socialism, Jews and non-white races.  Levenda also believes that there is evidence for a white conspiracy to destroy the black race through biological warfare and mass murder.  The conclusion his \\"Nazi Occultism Today\\" chapter pessimistically predicts that if the economy collapses and Americans loose faith in thecurrent political establishment, Nazi-style cults will take over the country, a new Medievalism will prevail, and race and religion will be all that matters.  This seems like a possibility, although such scenarios will probably be one where Jews encourage colored races to attack whites like they have been for the past sixty years.  The foreword by Norman Mailer is also interesting, apparently to give some credit to this book.  _Unholy Alliance_ covers a fascinating subject with good writing but with its sensationalistic, journalistic authorship and spurious claims, it needs to be taken with a large grain of salt.	2003-11-23
US	35854103	R2YUG780L9GAUI	0930462092	308862166	The Days of Vengeance: An Exposition of the Book of Revelation	Books	3	37	56	N	N	The Days of the Vengeance of Our God...	Here is a scholar who knows the Bible well.  David Chilton asks what do the mystifying, threatening, ominous archetypes of the notorious Book of Revelation actually mean?  What are the correlation between them and the visions of the Old Testament sage Daniel and the prophecies of Jesus?  _The Days of Vengeance: An Exposition of the Book of Revelation_ is an interesting, though not flawless, study and analysis of the New Testament's concluding text.  Chilton is an author for an obscure, far-right branch of the Calvinist/Reformed theological school known as \\"Dominion\\" or \\"Christian-Reconstruction\\" theology.  Interestingly enough, although they are hard-core biblical-literalalists and determinists, the Reconstructionists maintain a very positive outlook on the future of the Church in the world.  This is the \\"post-millennial\\" position in Christian eschatology that teaches that the Church of Christ will more or less take over the world and impose the Law of the Old Testament as official state policy.  This is in absolute opposition to the well-touted \\"Dispensationalist\\" view in which Jesus will return and literally reign on earth for a thousand years in the future after the defeat of the Antichrist.  For Reconstruction theologians, the prophecies in the Apocalypse pose an obstacle.  The world will be taken over by the spirit of the Antichrist and the Church will suffer persecution on earth, NOT delivered by Christ until after the tribulation.  The millennium is taken as a figurative rather than a literal term.  If the Church is going to actually convert the entire world, then the events in Revelation need to be historicized as something in the past.  One flaw of Chilton's book, although excellent at explaining his arguments with great clarity, is that it is divorced from the Patristic Tradition of the Church.  It is derived from the Biblical exegesis of one scholar in a radical sect of Protestant Christianity.  That stated, however, _The Days of Vengeance_ contains someinsights into its subject and presents a view on Revelation that describes America's religious and political scene today very well if read between the lines. <br />Hopefully I can provide a decent summary: In Deuteronomy, God warned Moses of the utter wrath that would befall Israel if they disobeyed and rebelled against God's commandments.  This was sealed by a covenant.  If the Israelites kept the commandments they would not be destroyed off their land.  The ultimate act of rebellion on the part of the Israelites was the rejection of Jesus Christ as the Messiah and demanding the Roman governor of Judea to crucify Him.  Jesus in the Olivet prophecies in the Matthew speaks of the abomination of desolation and the coming destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem.  Here is where the interpretation is radically different.  Jesus speaks here about the destruction of Jerusalem by the Roman armies in AD 70.  Nearly the entire Book of Revelation is thus interpreted as symbolically describing the state of the Church of Christ, the Roman Empire, the Pharisees, the Emperors, etc., before and including AD 70.  Chilton dates the time of Revelations authorship during the time of Nero as opposed to the more commonly cited year AD 95.  Revelation would have been a coded message from the Apostle John to the Churches in Asia minor that would predict things that would soon come to pass.  The audience, according to Chilton, would have understood the symbols in Revelation as they correspond precisely with the symbols of the Old Testament.  The Beast 666 is the Roman Emperor Nero who persecuted the Church.  The dragon is the Roman Empire and the False Prophet is the apparatus that forces the Empires subjects to worship the emperor and pay him tribute.  The Church refused to recognize the divinity of the Roman State and emperor and this led to persecution.  Interestingly enough, the Whore of Babylon, the worldly city who oppresses Gods people, is the city of Jerusalem.  The Jewish Pharisees encouraged the Roman State to persecute Christians under charges of disloyalty throughout the empire.  The heresies (like Jezebel) that St. John warns the churches of are variations of Judaism and Gnosticism; the entire book takes a very hostile position towards Judaism.  Eventually a group of Jewish nationalists, the Zealots, staged a revolt against Roman authority.  The Romans crushed the revolt and massacred thousands upon thousands of Jews, torched the temple, and violated the Holy of Holies.  Terrible as this sounds to modern ears, this was Gods punishment on the Jews for their rejection of Christ.  The description of Jews spreading heresies while using the state to persecute Christians in the first century AD is an accurate portrayal of the West today.  The cover of _The Days of Vengeance_ even features an illustration of the cup of Gods wrath being poured out on the Jewish temple.  However, this book departs radically from the traditional interpretation of Revelation since it puts nearly the entire book as a historical event not as a prophecy of the end of time.  One flaw is that the Temple was not entirely destroyed.  The Jews still pray at the Wailing Wall near the Temple site in Palestine.  The idea of the destruction of Jerusalem as a symbolic Second Coming of Christ to inaugurate the New Covenant, which fulfilled the covenant curses of the Old Testament, makes sense.  What makes this book so radical is that it does not realize that history repeats itself.  The Christian world is sliding rapidly towards apostasy since the seal that kept Satan bound, the authority of the Roman Empire, was broken in 1917 when the Bolsheviks took over Russia and deposed the Czar (Caesar) of Russia, the official Christian emperor.  Gary Norths statement in the introduction that Chiltons _Days of Vengeance_ will be a primary source document studied in the future by students who want to learn about the Christian takeover of the worlds governments borders on lunacy.  Two other books in addition to this one that are well known in the Christian Reconstruction camp are _Postmillennialism_ by Matthison and _The Institutes of Biblical Law_ by Rushdoony.	2003-11-16
US	35854103	R669AYA1Q9581	0932813356	59966717	ARKTOS	Books	5	92	97	N	N	Axis Mundi: The Occult Polar Archetype	_Arktos: The Polar Myth in Science, Symbolism and Nazi Survival_ by Joscelyn Godwin is an interesting book about occult and pseudoscientific theories on polar shifts, the succession of ages, the Aryan race, the \\"hollow earth\\" theory, Nazi underground bases, lost cities, UFOs, mystical powers, theosophy, sex magick and a host of other obscure topics.  The book begins with a discussion of the theory of polar shift, its relation to astrological, occult and Hindu calculations concerning the ages the earth has gone through.  The actuality of the proverbial Golden Age might have some support if at some point in the past the earth's axis was parallel to the sun and not veering at a tilt.  The North Pole would have had a temperate climate, illuminated by the shining stars, moon, the aurora borealis and the light of the sun visible beyond the horizon-a place of eternal light, a theoretical location for the Garden of Eden.  Arising from this polar theory is the notion of a primordial polar homeland for the human race.  This leads into the bizarre theories of the origin of the Aryan race and the superiority of Indo-European culture and religion over that of the Mediterranean and Middle Eastern Semites.  The Nazi believed that the Germans had a mystical homeland in a northern region known as Thule.  The theories of the Nazis are examined, including Alfred Rosenburg and his official exposition of Nazi philosophy, _Myth of the Twentieth Century_.  The Sicilian esotericist Julius Evola and his book _Revolt Against the Modern World_ also draws from the polar myth.  He believed that an original Aryan race migrated from a polar Hyperborea, following a solar religion dominated by the warrior ethos and conquering spirit.  According to Evola, the original religion of these Aryans has its elements sown in the myths of world in a variety of cultures.  A more aberrant view of Nazi occultism comes from Miguel Serrano, a Chilean diplomat and author.  His work _Hitler: El Ultimo Avataro_ describes a cosmic struggle between the Order of Nazis who are currently located in a hidden base in Antarctica against \\"the Demiurge\\": Judaism, Christianity and Freemasonry. The deliverance of the Aryan race will come when Nazi flying saucers emanate from Antarctica and take over the world.  Many theories have also circulated about a possible \\"hole at the pole\\" where adventurers could gain access to subterranean Utopias.  Aghartha and Shambhala are two mythical cites in Central Asia whose existence has been either literally or figuratively believed in.  The denizens of Aghartha stand for worldly power while Shambhala is the abode of mystical enlightenment.  The place of Antarctica is examined in detail as well as the North Pole.  While the North Pole has a pleasant reputation (surprisingly Santa's house is not mentioned) as a cozy homeland, the South Pole has stood for the earth's demons.  In old legends, treachery, death and monsters have been associated with the South.  In modern times this translates into Serrano's secret Nazis in Antarctica plotting against humanity.  The Pole figures to a great extent in the various theories of the origins of religion as well.  In the period after the Renaissance, Reformation and Enlightenment, many different scholars attempted to develop a unified theory to explain the origins of the world's religions.  One theory was one of a universal solar worship.  An example of this would be the Gospels written to describe the sun passing through the signs of the Zodiac throughout the year.  Phallus worship was another theory, attributing religion to the awe primordial men felt toward the generative and fertile sources of nature.  The polar theory is a combination of the two. The swastika also has its origins here.  The positions of Ursa Minor taken together throughout the seasons of the year thousands of years ago would have looked liked a swastika when depicted on a chart showing the seasonal observations simultaneously.  The mythical \\"Land of the Sun\\" in several ancient cultures and astrological setups also show a polar orientation.  Godwin notes that King Arthur may be drawn from the polar/solar traditions as well.  The \\"Spiritual Pole\\" chapter covers the metaphysical practices, including Yoga, which have used polar and axial ideas to stand as a metaphor for an ascent into enlightenment.  The last third of _Arktos_ summarizes the theories of why the earth's axis is at a tilt.  The \\"catastrophists\\" believed that the pole shifted in sudden violent changes in ages past and was responsible for epochal calamities.  The \\"uniformitarians\\" on the other hand postulated that the earth is continually shifting its polar locations, repeating in cycles.  The scientific theories concerning polar shifts are examined, but Godwin draws no conclusions for or against the idea.  Of course, most of the occult literature on the subject is totally at odds with objective science.  The most outlandish theorist examined here is Cyrus Teed, AKA \\"Koresh\\" (no Waco connection).  This mystic propagated the idea that we are actually living on the concave of earth's inner shell.  The stars, planets and the sun are reflections inside the earth itself.  One aspect of Godwin's book that makes it informative is his objectivity-and possibly even a subtle hint of approval--towards his subjects.  Godwin concludes by making reference to the Kali Yuga, the Age of Iron that describes the modern world process of decay according to Hindu eschatology, in addition to the \\"end of the Age of Pisces.\\"  Although Godwin does not take Pisces as referring to Christ, he makes his support clear toward the idea of the \\"earth reasserting its rights\\" with a polar shift--a massive global catastrophe--that will destroy the pretenses of humanity and inaugurate the next Golden Age.	2003-11-13
US	35854103	R2I561889UJ9UT	0938635859	311979175	Christ the Eternal Tao	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Lao Tzu: Ego Death and Mystical, Otherworldly Christianity	_Christ the Eternal Tao_ by Hieromonk Damascene (Serbian Orthodox) examines the philosophy of China's ancient sage Lao Tzu, and how it is a precursor to the Revelation of Christ.  Lao Tzu lived in China about 500 years before Christ and is known by his metaphysical work, _The Tao Te Ching_, which translated can mean _The Way and its Power_.  The first part of the book is an introduction explaining how ancient traditions not specifically Christian can be said to speak of Christ in mystical terms, based on human intuition but not Divine Revelation.  The high point of human intuition lies in the _Tao Te Ching_, an indefinite yet profound document, which is as far as a human philosopher can approach the Truth without Divine Revelation.  The highest Revealed Truth is in the Gospel according to John, \\"In the Beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.\\"  The ancient Greek philosophers such as Heraclitus, Pythagoras, Socrates and Plato shared many similarities to the Chinese, and there are also many parallels between the Byzantine Empire under an official Christian Emperor and Imperial China.  Heraclitus developed the idea of the Logos or Word in Greece.  Lao Tzu's \\"Tao\\" is translated from the Chinese as the \\"Way\\" or the \\"Word\\", both of which are titles of Christ.  \\"Te\\" is similar to the concept of \\"grace\\" in Christian theology, an energy from God.  The ancients before Christ had traditions that were handed down from generation to generation, but they became more diluted as time passed.  The wise Chinese teacher Confucius confessed \\"that the great Sacrifice to Heaven had been corrupted and that its meaning had been lost.\\"  The introductory material also covers the phenomenon of Westerners becoming more interested in eastern religions, Taoism among them.  Conversely, many Chinese today are converting to Christianity en masse.  The _Tao Te Ching_ represents a human wisdom and insight uncorrupted by modernity and distortions of original Christian teachings, a pristine philosophy according to the interpretation here points to Christ.  _Christ the Eternal Tao_ will probably not appeal to Protestant evangelical Christians; another commentator noted \\"there is no in-your-face theism here.\\"  In addition to evangelicals/fundamentalists the book will not appeal to people who consider themselves \\"Taoists.\\"  Many \\"Taoists\\" today are those searching for an alternative to Christianity, and are generally predisposed against a specifically Christian interpretation of Lao Tzu.  The second part of the book is composed of a poem written after the style of the _Tao Te Ching_, intentionally rewritten to make it explicitly Christian.  This \\"Gospel According to Lao Tzu\\" assimilates ideas from the Chinese scholar Gi-ming Shien whose exposition of classical Chinese philosophy (not the contemporary Western-liberal interpretation) influenced Fr. Seraphim Rose.  This poem contains an explanation of the Trinity and how the three persons relate to one another, described in a way that almost approaches a rational explanation (of course a religious doctrine can never be explained \\"rationally\\").  The second half of _Christ the Eternal Tao_ goes into Chirstian mysticism and how hesychasm and the Jesus Prayer/Prayer of the heart relate to Lao Tzu's teaching.  This section was not as interesting as the first and but would appeal to a monastic audience.  The ascetic, suffering, all-loving, self-emptying ideal is the one most revered.  To overcome worldly passions one must experience \\"ego-death\\", the total loss of self: \\"The Way...may also work through physical pain, or through emotional pain arising from the loss of a loved one or any other of our earthly attachments.  At the time, we may find this to be terribly and unnecessarily cruel...\\"  Life in the Divine \\"required the slow, painful, merciless death of the ego...with that true life begins.\\"    Damascene, in another section, draws from Fr. Seraphim's work and explains the enigmatic meaningof Christ's statement referring to Himself as the least in the kingdom of Heaven in addition to Lao Tzu's concept of \\"nothingness.\\"  \\"...'Nothingness' in the meaning that Lao Tzu gives it, is the `point of convergence' or axis of the universe...If nothingness or self-emptying is the axis of the universe, then the Cross of Christ, the greatest sign to man of the self-emptying of God, now becomes that axis.  Christ the Tao/Logos stands at the axis; and there, in the `space where there is nothing,' we find not an impersonal void, but the personal heart of the selfless, self-forgetting God.\\"  In all I recomment _Christ the Eternal Tao_ as an insightful, if sometimes tedious read, about the &quot;esoteric core\\" of the _Way and its Power_.	2003-11-10
US	35854103	REVJYN6QI1GEI	1859845177	921827520	Politicide: Ariel Sharon's War Against the Palestinians	Books	2	11	28	N	N	Politicide: The Cure for Insomnia	_Politicide: Ariel Sharon's War Against the Palestinians_ by the Israeli scholar Baruch Kimmerling is about the questionable career of Israel's current prime minister.  Verso Books publishes it, the same house that published _The Holocaust Industry_ by Norman Finkelstein, and an imprint of the \\"New Left Books\\".  As far as an indictment of the State of Israel, its leadership, its policies, and its \\"strategic relationship\\" with the United States goes, this is hardly the best book available.  Kimmerling does a good job at defining what his title blurb \\"Politicide\\" means--the attempt to eradicate any influence a religion, ethnicity, nationality, etc., has in its own political affairs.  To whit, this is what the State of Israel, especially as personified in the Ariel Sharon regime, is perpetrating on the native Arab Palestinians.  The problem with _Politicide_ is it does not exactly define what kind of book it is supposed to be.  Kimmerling states that he is writing an essay to get his point of Israel's tyranny in the Holy Land across, which is fine except that if his essay was not over 200 pages long.  It would have been more interesting as a history, citing its sources, rather than presenting information as assumed knowledge.  This is particularly important, as this subject should not be dismissed as the ranting of ultra-left, pro-Islamic fundamentalist, anti-American, pro-terrorist or Nazi apologist ideologues.  Better books for those interested in the topic of Israel's relationship to the United States and its position in the Middle East (especially why the Islamic world is monolithically distrustful of Israel) are _Jewish Power_ by J. J. Goldberg, anything by Israel Shahak, and Verso's other title, _The Holocaust Industry_.	2003-11-04
US	35854103	R8RN0L9VBRYAW	0060183365	164339151	Black Hundred: The Rise of the Extreme Right in Russia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Defending Mother Russia.	_Black Hundred: The Rise of the Extreme Right in Russia_ by Walter Laqueur is about the political and ideological scene in Russian nationalism during the aftermath of the Soviet collapse in the early nineties.  _Black Hundred_ was published in 1993, making some of its material and assessments rather dated.  However, it gives excellent descriptions of the leaders of the Russian right, where they got their theories and ideas from, and what possible impact they have had on the country.  The biggest problem with _Black Hundred_ is its liberal, pro-capitalist, pro-western, anti-religious and (needless to state, of course) pro-Jewish bias.  Laqueur's tone throughout is thus cynical, disdainful and condescending towards his subject of study, especially regarding the Russian Orthodox Church and nationalism in particular.  Also, the presentation is rather disorganized with too much editorializing on Laqueur's part.  _Black Hundred_ traces the history of the Russian right to the 19th century religious groups and theorists such as St. John of Kronstadt who defended the authority of the Tsar against the criticisms of Marxists, communists, socialists, anarchists, liberals, Jews, Masons and other subversive groups in Imperial Russia.  It was also rooted in the Russian Orthodox revival in the 1800s, centered on famous monasteries such as Optina.  Central to the thought of the Russian far-right is that Jews, Freemasons, liberals and Western capitalism and materialism form a cohesive agent of destruction against Holy Mother Russia, her people and her Faith.  Formed in the early years of the 1900s and remaining active until 1917, the Black Hundred was a group willing to use violence to defend the Orthodox Church and the throne of the Tsar.  Several pogroms and incidents against Jews are attributed to them.  The _Protocols of the Wise Men of Zion_ first appeared having questionable origins in Russia.  The _Protocols_ describe a Jewish plan for world domination under their \\"son of David\\" by using Masonry, media propaganda, liberal social theory, international finance, usury, and promoting an anti-Christian scientific-rationalist world view: the \\"Jewmasonry\\" conspiracy.  Sergei Nilus published the _Protocols_ supposedly written in Hebrew, in Russian.  The Tsar believed there was a conspiracy afoot to remove him from power, but disbelieved in the overall accuracy of the _Protocols_.  After the Bolsheviks seized power, the Orthodox Church was turned into a puppet of the Soviet State and the Royal Family murdered.  The right maintains the Jewish origins of the Russian Revolution, Jews disproportionately overrepresented in the communist circles.  Joseph Stalin, however, has a slightly better reputation among the right as he developed \\"National Socialism\\" for the Soviet Union and purged the original Bolshevik revolutionaries in the 30s.  Stalin also promoted Russian nationalism to the extreme, at the detriment of non-Russian peoples in the Soviet Union.  Cosmopolitanism is a concept dreaded by the nationalists and Stalin scores some points on the right for his anti-cosmopolitan campaign directed at foreigners.  Besides these examples, Stalin is not held in high regard by the right, as he was a destroyer of traditional aspects of Russian culture and persecutor of the church.  Some members of the Russian migr community supported Hitler and Nazi Germany during WWII, hopefully for the destruction of the Stalin regime.  The Russian Orthodox Church experienced a schism.  Since the Moscow patriarchate was suspect, the Russian Church Abroad broke off, considering itself the true inheritor of Orthodoxy from Tsarist Russia uncorrupted by communist dominance and infiltration.  Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Russian extreme right at times ironically found itself in the same camp with Communists, opposing Western influence, the free market economy and democratic government.  Anti-Jewish sentiment became more open, but officials in the CommunistParty previously published attacks on Jewish interests under the \\"Politically Correct\\" guise of anti-Zionism.  The Russian nationalists and Communists alike favored a strong military position opposing America as well.  As one Communist group proposed the installation of Russian Orthodoxy as Russia's state religion, it appears that that anti-globalist, anti-Zionist Communists are jumping in the same boat as religious reactionaries, white racialists and nationalists in Russia.  Some of themes for certain Russian nationalists are occult and anti-Christian: the forged \\"Book of Vlas\\" describing Russia's \\"Aryan\\" origins, the writings of the Italian occult luminary Julius Evola, Theosophy and astrology being prominent examples.  Laqueur devotes a considerable amount of space to describing the Slavophiles, authors who glorified Russia during the 19th and early 20th centuries.  Fydor Dosteivsky is by far the most popular author among right wingers, with his strong emphasis on the teachings of the Orthodox Church and the redeeming role Russia plays in world affairs.  Leo Tolstoy is respected but not considered patriotic enough.  In recent times, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, a Russian conservative, has become a figure for nationalism.  His writings critique the West for its decadent materialism and cowardice in confronting Soviet policy, in addition to exposing the communist slave state for what it really was.  Laqueur, however, takes a slightly negative attitude towards Solzhenitsyn, almost portraying him as a backward peasant.  Needless to say, Dostievskys anti-Semitism is highlighted.  Surprisingly, Laqueur praises the Russian peoples connection to the land and nature.  Characteristically, Laqueur constantly refers to the dichotomy between patriotism (good) and nationalism (bad) throughout his study.  Patriotism is the healthy respect for ones country and improving its material conditions while nationalism is medieval chauvinism directed against imagined (i.e., imagined in Laqueurs view) external and internal enemies.  Obviously, any type of nationalist movement based on the authority of the State, the Church and the Race/People would pose significant threat to the liberal academic establishment that published this book.  Nationalist groups of different shades in America have been putting out literature for some time that any revitalization of the West is likely to come from Russia.  There is also Orthodox literature pointing to a spiritual rebirth in Russia before the End comes.  Also recommended: _Behind Communism_ by Frank Britton, _Utlimate Things_ by Engleman and _The Third Rome: Holy Russia, Tsarism and Orthodoxy_ by Matthew Raphael Johnson.	2003-10-31
US	35854103	R4J6J5G8BB6RB	096227139X	979487756	Ultimate Things: An Orthodox Christian Perspective on the End Times	Books	5	11	15	N	N	The Antichrist, the Apocalypse, and the End of Time	_Ultimate Things: An Orthodox Perspective on the End Times_ by Dennis Engleman is an outline of the rise of the Antichrist and the coming Apocalypse.  This book is not what I would consider the most academic treatment of the topic, but it provides a rough outline and for the most part cites contemporary sources.  It does have some references to \\"apocryphal\\" texts such as the Gospel of Nicodemus and the Apocalypse of Elijah.  _Ultimate Things_ is written as a response to the pre-tribulation rapture propaganda so widespread in the Christian churches in America today.  The question is what did the ancient Fathers of the Church understand and teach of the coming of the Antichrist?  How does it differ from modern day interpretations?  A key discrepancy is of the idea of suffering for Christ in the Church.  The \\"rapture\\" will supposedly whisk away all true Christian believers and leave the world's unbelievers to suffer God's wrath with the rule of the Antichrist for three and a half years.  This is contrasted to the traditional Orthodox teaching where the Church is severely persecuted under the Antichrist and Christ returns at the end of time and Judgement Day commences.  Chiliasm is the ancient heresy of a literal thousand-year reign of Christ over the earth after his Second Coming.  This heresy is dangerous because not only will the \\"rapture\\" not happen but the man who will reign posing as the Savior of the World will mimic Christ, creating a one world government with signs and wonders, \\"deceiving even the elect.\\"  St. Paul refers to the satanic force that is hurtling the world to Apocalypse as the \\"mystery of iniquity.\\"  Fr. Seraphim Rose is cited explaining that \\"mystery\\" in this sense is something that is not working out in the open, but exercising a covert, unseen influence.  The Book of Revelation speaks of a \\"seal\\" that kept Satan \\"bound\\" for the figurative 1,000 years of Christ's reign, understood as being from the time of the Crucifixion and the period when theChurch was free of political opposition and oppression.  This seal, explains Engleman, is the Christian Monarchy of the Roman Empire, the \\"legs of iron\\" and \\"fourth beast\\" in Daniel's prophecy.  It was established when Constantine saw the Sign of the Cross in the sky, and was ordered marked on his soldiers' uniforms.  Constantine moved the capital of the Roman Empire to the city of Byzantium in Greece, which was renamed Constantinople.  The Byzantine Empire lasted into the 1400s until the Ottoman Turks overthrew it.  By this time, however, Russia and large tracts of Eastern Europe had been converted to Christianity.  The Grand Duke of Moscow took the title \\"tsar/czar\\" meaning \\"Caesar\\" and Russia became the \\"Third Rome.\\"  With a Christian monarchy in political power, the forces of rebellion against God had to be kept secret (the cabals of Rabbis, Masons, Illuminati and Alchemists come to mind).  The first outward manifestation of Satanic government was the French Revolution and the proclamation of Atheism and \\"Reason\\" as the state religion, and the persecution of the Church for \\"counter-revolutionary\\" activity.  The Roman Empire itself fell in 1917 with the Communist takeover of Russia and the murder of Czar Nicholas II and his family.  Bishop Theophan the Recluse and Father John of Kronstadt both warned the Russian people in the late 1800s and early 1900s about what would happen if the monarchy were to fall.  \\"...When the monarchy falls, and everywhere nations institute self government (republics, democracies) then the Antichrist will be able to act freely.  It will not be difficult for Satan to prepare voters to renounce Christ as experience taught us during the French Revolution\\" (p76).  Engleman looks forward to a possible repentance in the future of Russia, followed by a brief return to a monarchy under the Czar.  This will be short-lived, the \\"peace in Heaven for half an hour.\\"  The Antichrist will use all methods at his disposal to deceive the world--technological wonders, false miracles, signs in the sky, world peace, material prosperity--to set himself up.  The world capital will be a \\"spiritual\\" one, the holy city of Jerusalem.  The Third Temple of Solomon will be rebuilt, the culmination of Masonry.  The Jews look forward to their messiah, the one whom Christ said \\"would come in his own name\\", not in the name of the Father.  The Pharisees looked for a messiah who would lead the Jews in a revolt against Rome and establish a Jewish kingdom, not Jesus who was rejected and handed over to the secular authorities to be condemned.  In Phariseesism were the seeds of Revolution planted and this nihilistic Revolution now has open control of all formerly Christian countries.  _Ultimate Things_ concludes by stating the Christ will come, \\"as a thief in the night\\" when no one will expect it.  The Christians of the last days do not know exactly when Jesus will return but are encouraged to be vigilant and watch so they will not be caught off guard when the \\"Thief\\" comes to rob Satan's house.	2003-10-25
US	35854103	R14TRNE582KVIH	0916586731	636870062	The Mind of the Fathers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Mind of the Fathers	_The Mind of the Fathers_ by George S. Bebis, a Greek Orthodox professor, is a series of essays concerning the writings and thought of the Church Fathers.  It is not a continuous narrative, and provides analyses of certain topics:<br />&quot;Tradition in the Fathers&quot;: How the Fathers of the Church made distinctions between &quot;traditions&quot;, which can vary from country to country, and &quot;Tradition&quot;, the teaching handed from Christ to his Apostles and then to the Fathers.<br />&quot;Worship in the Church&quot;: This worship should be theocentric, Biblical and point toward the Eucharist.  It should also be eschatological, &quot;in anticipation of the world to come,&quot; and mystical.<br />&quot;Eusebios and His Theology of History:\\" This chapter examines in depth the work of Eusebios, the first historian of the Church and author of _Ecclesiastical History_.  Bebis explains the historical outlook of Eusebios is to be commended because it places Christ as the center of world history.<br />\\"Gregory of Nyssa's _Life of Moses_: A Philosophical and Theological Analysis\\": Gregory's _Life of Moses_ presents the Old Testament account of Moses as an allegorical foreshadowing of New Testament Christology.<br />\\"Saint John Chysostom: Materialism and Christian Virtue\\":  The anti-worldly thought of John Chysostom, the need for renunciation of greed, pleasures of the flesh, and human esteem.<br />\\"_The Ecclesiastical Hierarchy_ of Saint Dionysios the Areopagite: A Liturgical Interpretation\\":  Concerns the mystical theology and liturgy of the East.  Synaxis, is defined, referring to the gathering of the people of God to a certain place and also to the union of the people with God.<br />\\"Saint Photios as an Orthodox Theologian and Scholar\\": Comments upon the life and work of St. Photios, the Patriarch of Constantinople prior to the Schism between the Latin Church and the Greek Church.  He was involved in the filioque controversy, defending the traditional Creed which states that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father rather than the revised Latin Creed where \\"and the Son\\" is added to the clause addressing the procession of the Holy Spirit.<br />\\"'Apology' of Nestorios: A New Evaluation\\": Discusses Nestorios, a heretical teacher in the Church which caused disunion among Christians in the 4th century.<br />\\"Saint Nikodemos the Hagiorite\\": Nikodemos was a great Saint and Monk on Mount Athos in 18th and 19th century Greece, which was then under Ottoman Turkish rule.  His scholarship and exhortations to the Greeks helped plant the seeds that gave Greece the spirit to fight a war of liberation of their homeland against the Turks.	2003-10-18
US	35854103	R193XPEB3AERXA	0938635115	598063063	The First-Created Man: Seven Homilies by St. Symeon the New Theologian	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Sin of Adam and the Redemption of Man	_The First Created Man_, compiled, edited and translated by Seraphim Rose, is a selection of seven Homilies by the St. Symeon the New Theologian concerning the sin of Adam, the fall from Paradise and the redemption brought about by Christ.  St. Symeon is one of only three in the Church who have attainted the title \\"Theologian\\": the other two being St. John the Evangelist (of the Apostles) and St. Gregory of Nazianzus (of the Fathers of the Church).  St. Symeon was a highly influential monk and abbot in the 10th and 11th century Byzantine Empire.  He wrote extensively on theological topics and remains one of the most respected teachers in the Eastern Orthodox Church.  Fr. Seraphim's translation comes from the Russian translation of the original Greek by St. Theophan the Recluse, a 19th century Russian bishop.  The first part of the book is an introduction to the life and teachings of St Symeon.  The second part is the seven Homilies.  Man, when he first lived in Paradise/Eden, was not distracted and out of direct contact with the Divine as he is today.  He did not have to strive against creation to survive, and was not burdened by the pain, hunger, thirst, lusts of the flesh and endless toil unto death that sums up human existence since the Fall.  When Adam and Eve ate of the forbidden fruit against God's commandment, they did not receive Divine Mercy at that point because they did not repent of their sin and had listened to the councils of the serpent.  God, in time, did redeem man from his cursed state, in the person of Jesus Christ, who died so that man may be free from death and have life with God in Heaven, a return to Paradise, a return to the original Golden Age.  The Cross/tree that Jesus was pinned on to save man is the counterpart of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil in the Garden of Eden that destroyed man.  At the end of time, teaches St. Symeon, God will create the new Heaven and Earth.  The material world will be dissolved by the Divine fire and the new Earth will be one in which there is direct communion with God, the pure essence of Being that transcends all that can be perceived by the senses or human thought.	2003-10-12
US	35854103	R2JP41IH3TFX4I	1881316904	106817461	Freemasonry and Judaism: Secret Powers Behind Revolution	Books	5	124	140	N	N	Freemasonry and Judaism:  As if I didn't know!	What are the forces behind the insane spirit of revolution that has taken the world captive, especially since the French Revolution of 1789?  What has caused the downfall of Europe's traditional absolute monarchies and the authority of the Church?  Who benefits from the decline of patriotism and traditional religious values?  The answer, explicated by the French aristocrat Leon de Poncins, is the forces of Freemasonry and Judaism.  I could not find a date of original publication as this is a reprint, but it appears to have been first published in the 1920s.  The first part of _Freemasonry and Judaism: Secret Powers Behind Revolution_ discusses the role Freemasonry has played in the revolutionary spirit.  Freemasonry is a secret society, with varying levels of involvement for its members, and takes the facade of a philanthropic organization.  This is to cover up its ulterior motive, which is to wage an occult war against Christianity and traditionalism in general.  The lower echelons of Masonic degrees do not know about the true meaning of Masonry any more than outsiders do, and who the true masterminds are of Masonic intrigue remain a mystery.  It appears that Freemasonry is founded on the doctrines of the Jewish Cabala, the precise links lost in antiquity and obscurity.  Similar teachings and groups can be traced to ancient times with a continuation of secret organizational structure, occult initiation rituals and symbols.  Most of the instigators of the French Revolution were Masons.  The Revolution was not a popular uprising against the ruling establishment and the Church as it is commonly believed, but rather planned out by unknown personages in high places who spread propaganda and made it appear that it came from the bottom-up when it was actually from the top-down.  The Hexagram (six pointed Star of David) symbolizes the six pronged attack against traditional Christian civilization: <br />1) Religious (discredit Christianity and promote atheism and rationalism),<BR>2) Ethical (\\"corrupt morality of the northern races\\"),<BR>3) Aesthetic (\\"cult of the ugly and aberrant in art\\"),<BR>4) Sociological (aristocracy out, plutocracy in, ferment class war),<BR>5) Industrial and financial (\\"cartel and trust leading to abolition of private ownership and to state monopoly\\", a kind of communism through unbridled capitalism),<BR>6)  Political (\\"kill patriotism and pride of race\\").  <br />The second part of De Poncins' book outlines the role of Jews and Judaism in revolutionary movements.  The Jews have always lived &quot;in exile&quot; throughout the world, always at odds in some form or other with their gentile hosts.  Their religion is one that is this messianic, materialist, based on the collective salvation of the group in the world rather than on the individual soul in eternity.  Judaism is very community-centered and conservative, but at the same time Jews have spread liberalism, notions of &quot;freedom&quot; and &quot;equality&quot; to gentiles.  If all the other religions and races of the world are confused and lack their own identity, then the most self-centered, ethnocentric group will dominate and perform the best materially and politically.  Judaism and its occult creation and ally, Freemasonry, through wars, revolutions, and money manipulation covertly controlled all of Europe by the end of the 19th century.  De Poncins notes that the only conservative country left in Europe which posed a threat to Jewish socialism and money power was Russia, with its Czar, landed aristocracy, agricultural economy, the Russian Orthodox Church and lack of democratic institutions.  Holy Mother Russia thus was set up to bear the full brunt of Jewish wrath in the Russian Revolution.  Several millions were brutally executed and massacred, including all levels of clergy, professionals, the Royal Family and nobility, small landowners and peasants, in the years following the Revolution.  <br />Not all Jews are collectively guilty, of course, buttheir role as a force of decay has been the same the world over when they act as a group.  De Poncins discusses Zionism and what it means to Jewish-gentile relations.  The Jews have never been able to maintain their own country on their own (the State of Israel today is subsidized by American military and economic aid) and it appears that the Zionist movement has no intention whatsoever of bringing ALL Jews to Palestine.  Zionism, like radical socialism, liberalism and communism, is another political subset in the Jewish plan for world domination, NOT and end in itself.  The question is brought up of whether or not this is a conspiracy, along with the accuracy of the _Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion_.  The _Protocols_ in and of themselves do not need to be a genuine document because what they state is substantiated by innumerable other sources, a considerable amount of which originate from Jewish authors themselves in addition to various \\"conspiracy theorists.\\"  It also appears that this whole thing is not strictly conscious among the Jews, but rather an inborn expression of their racial and religious being.  Although international Jewish bankers have the political structures, finance, businesses, and most importantly the media in their hands, De Poncins encourages his readers to stand firm against the revolutionary spirit.  Now is not the time for chauvinism, but for cooperation among all elements that serve to promote the traditional scene throughout the world over.  One problem that I have with the book is that it does not contain enough of Poncins' actual writing, instead relying mostly on quotations from other sources.  However, it does provide an excellent look at how exactly Freemasonry and Judaism act as forces of destruction in the name of \\"progress.\\"  Oddly enough, the publisher of this reprint is Afrocentric based on the other titles it offers for sale.	2003-10-10
US	35854103	RLRP4B2HCTCBS	0938635034	818941840	God's Revelation to the Human Heart	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Why Study Religion?	_God's Revelation to the Human Heart_ is the transcript of a lecture that Fr. Seraphim Rose delivered to the students of comparative religion at the University of California, Santa Cruz, in 1981.  It can easily be read in one sitting, and although it is not the most in depth or detailed introduction to Orthodoxy, it is an insightful nonetheless.  Fr. Seraphim begins his address with the question, &quot;Why study religion?&quot;  The answer to this is to find out the meaning of Reality itself.  The nature of this reality is in contrast with mundane reality, all of which eventually passes on in this world.  True reality is something that cannot be perceived in a strictly empirical manner, but comes from within and glimpses at eternity.  Fr. Seraphim also speaks of the search for religious experience and religious truth.  An individual should not look for religious experiences per se because they can be the paths towards spiritual delusion, but rather towards Truth itself.  The importance of suffering in Orthodox Christianity is also discussed, giving the well-known example of Alexander Solzhenitsyn (author of the _Gulag Archipelago_) who was persecuted by the Soviets for political dissent.  Unlike in many Western countries, Christianity in Russia under communism was directly and brutally persecuted.  Fr. Seraphim's conclusion discusses the spiritual rebirth that is happening in Russia today.  Finally, the last few pages are the Question and Answer session after Fr. Seraphim's lecture.	2003-10-07
US	35854103	R3HDP8X8S8H7B4	094138005X	828510584	Anti-Semitism and the Babylonian Connection	Books	5	40	41	N	N	The Manifesto of Right-Wing Conspiracy Theory.	If there is a book, covering events since the beginning of time, but short enough to read in a sitting, and which contains a central theory of everything, to be considered the Manifesto of right-wing conspiracy theory: Des Griffin's _Anti Semitism and the Babylonian Connection_ would be it.  As far as figuring out what the Master Plan of the Ages is, _Anti-Semitism_ comes pretty close.  Griffin could have provided a lot more material and developed his ideas in much greater detail here.  Nevertheless, there is a lot that is brought to attention.  Griffin goes back before the time of Christ to when the Hebrews were taken into the Babylonian Captivity.  During their sojourn there, many of the Jews studied the occult philosophies of Babylon.  In the Bible, Babylon always stands for worldly power, materialism, spiritual bankruptcy, the lusts of the flesh, and the oppression of God's people.  By the way, there is no \\"Jewish World Conspiracy\\" per se, but there is a \\"Babylonian World Conspiracy\\" in which some (not all, of course) Jews play their part.  A sect arose, the Pharisees, who claimed that the Hebrew characters of the Torah contained all knowledge of the foundation of the universe, and that only those in the cult had access to this secret teaching.  A system of oral teachings arose which paid lip service to the Books of Moses, but in fact many of them contradicted the Scriptures through an elaborate system of legal loopholes.  This was the \\"tradition of the elders\\" that Jesus spoke out against.  The Pharisees clamored to have Christ crucified and the Jews of Jerusalem were rabble-roused to demand His crucifixion of Pontius Pilate.  This was pre-empted when Jesus prophesied of the coming destruction of Jerusalem and of Herod's blasphemous Temple, which occurred true to form in AD 70.  After Bar Kochba's rebellion in the second century AD, many Jews were forced out of Palestine.  Facing persecution in the West, they settled in Babylon.  Here the collection of oral teachings was compiled in written form, the Babylonian Talmud, which remains the standard for Orthodox Jewish doctrine.  The question of anti-Semitism arises in the discussion of from whom most of today's Jews are descended from.  During the Middle Ages, the Khazars, a people related to the central Asian Huns and Turks, converted to Judaism.  Eventually the Russians conquered the Khazar Empire and absorbed its inhabitants. That is where the origins of the communities of Eastern European Jews (the Ashkenazim) can be traced.  The Ashkenazi Jews make up roughly ninety percent of the world's Jewry, and they have no biological claim to Semitic, Middle Eastern origins.  The Arab Palestinians, however, are Semites, and have been forced off their land and territory by European Jews, with the backing of the United States over the past several decades.  The Pat Robertson, Jerry Falwell crowd of fundamentalist, evangelical Christians have played their part in fostering popular support for this atrocity justified by a radical misinterpretation of the Bible.<br />What is the ultimate goal of Judaism?  It is the redemption of the world by the Messiah.  Just who or what this non-Christian Messiah actually is becomes a subject of some debate.  It appears at the most hidden, secret, esoteric, occult level that the Jewish people themselves are the Messiah who are destined to rule the nations of the world.  They have spread rootless banker dominated capitalism and consumerism in the West, engaging in a subtle anti-Christian campaign.  In the East, they forcefully overthrew the Czar in Russia and set up a militantly-atheist government that brutalized the Christian Church.  Socialism and communism, with their visions of a planned perfect humanistic society, are the vehicles through which the international conspirators have used to take over the world.  The whole concept of Babylon, the decadent whore which oppresses the world in her sin operates according to the Hegelian principle or dialectic materialism: Thesis, Antithesis, Synthesis.  Create a problem and offer your own solution for it to get what you want.  Griffin goes into an exegesis of Genesis 11:1-9 about Nimrod's kingdom where he built the Tower of Babel to reach God in heaven.  All the nations spoke a common language, serving one overlord, whose literal Tower to ascend to Paradise by human means crashed and burned.  \\"The beginning of his [Nimrod's] kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh in the land of Shinar.\\"  Shinar means \\"to change,\\" and \\"to mix and mingle.\\"  Babel means \\"confusion.\\"  Erech means \\"length or expanse.\\"  Accad means, \\"to fortify.\\"  Calneh means \\"to drive everything [like a herd of cattle].\\"  This, according to Griffin, outlines Satan's doomed plan to usurp God's authority on earth and how the devil will set up his own this-worldly kingdom.  The world's chaos and confusion has been planned beforehand.  That is why obviously self-defeating and self-destructive policies are not publicly challenged or given serious thought as to why they are implemented even though they fly in the face of logic: massive third-world immigration, trillions in national debt, wasteful wars, gun control, overly convoluted government bureaucracies, media propaganda, etc.  To understand where Des Griffin is coming from in _Anti-Semtism_,  I also recommend _Judaism's Strange Gods_ by Michael A. Hoffman, _The Thirteenth Tribe_ by Arthur Koestler, and _Secret Societies and Subversive Movements_ by Nesta Webster.	2003-09-28
US	35854103	R285U1DJDXHKWZ	0938635123	19627429	The Place of Blessed Augustine in the Orthodox Church (Orthodox Theological Texts)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Defense of Blessed Augustine	_The Place of Blessed Augustine in the Orthodox Church_ by Fr. Seraphim Rose is about the theological controversy that has raged over the ages concerning the noteworthy Bishop of Hippo.  Blessed Augustine, after Jesus Himself and St. Paul is probably the most controversial figure Christian history.  This short book puts Augustine in his proper sphere of veneration--that of a Father of Orthodox piety.  Fr. Seraphim comments on recent disputes in the Orthodox Church about Augustine.  Augustine has been criticized in some circles as having set the course of Western Christendom on that path that it followed after the Great Schism in the 1000s toward overly-logical rationalism, the Calvinist denial of free-will, and corrupting Orthodox doctrine on God's grace toward sinners.  The modern day Orthodox theologians who disparage Augustine are censured for not looking at how Augustine has always been viewed-as a Saint and great Teacher.  _Blessed Augustine_ goes into some detail about the free-will debate as well.  The traditional Orthodox teaching, explains Fr. Seraphim, is one of synergy, or God's grace working with man's free will to attain salvation.  Augustine's teaching was an overreaction to Pelagius, a heretic who placed too much emphasis on man's free will and lessened the role of God in salvation.  Augustine never denied free will, but went a little overboard when he spoke about the effect of God's grace.  St. John Cassian in the West, along with the Eastern fathers, were more moderate in the balance between God's Grace and free will, and spoke out against Augustine's errors.  This did not make Augustine a heretic, or one who spread false doctrine.  Fr. Seraphim points out several examples where venerated Fathers have taught error in isolated instances or as a matter of private opinion, but their thought as a whole were in continuous agreement.  The last three parts of Blessed Augustine_ contain letters in which Fr. Seraphim discussed Augustine, the passages Fr. Seraphim underlined in the _Confessions_, and a liturgy for Blessed Augustine.	2003-09-27
US	35854103	R3K20JQ84NB16O	0941380041	938969697	Martin Luther King the Man Behind the Myth	Books	5	18	22	N	N	MLK and the Hegelian Dialectic	_Martin Luther King: The Man Behind the Myth_ by Des Griffin is an interesting little pamphlet concerning the civil rights leader who has been beatified by the Establishment.  What was behind the civil rights movement and the social and racial chaos in the fifties and sixties?  This book does not provide all of the answers, but an interesting figure in American history is revealed as a pawn in a much wider conspiracy.  This book is sure to be offensive, and would be condemned as \\"racist,\\" but any \\"racism\\" on Griffin's part does not come from Christian Identity theology or neo-Nazi paganism.  Martin Luther King was known for his parties and exploits with women.  He also, as many have noted, was affiliated with communists for his whole career.  The SCLC (Southern \\"Christian\\" Leadership Conference) was the creation of liberal whites and communists.  King's theology was not one of traditional Christianity, but rather the social gospel of liberal humanitarian social radicalism.  _Martin Luther King_ gives many examples of the connections that the Communist Party USA had with King.  King was enamoured with the Hegelian Dialectic.  This theory states that societies are relatively stable and do not tend to change unless massive irregularities and disturbances affect them.  If the rulers of society want to mould the people for their own gain to achieve a goal or a certain set of outcomes, then they need to manufacture a crisis and offer their own solution for it.  It is like creating a deadly strain of plague and simultaneously developing an antidote for it.  The plague is released, causing death and destruction, and when the people are desperate for a cure, the plague farmers sell the antidote for their own profit to the disease they created.  The Establishment (controlled by the Illuminati at the highest and most hidden levels) propagandized about oppression of African-Americans in the south, and created \\"popular opinion\\" to implement its radical goals of social change.  The civil rights marchers were in fact controlled and used by the regime they claimed to be against.  This way the Establishment could forcefully integrate the races, which itself is part of some much larger obscure plan to set up the future New World Order.  King was a useful pawn in this game, and his speeches were delivered to arouse the maximum possible emotional response.  A great amount of suspicion comes up concerning his assassination in 1968.  Was this the work of some \\"lone gunman\\" or part of a larger plot in the intelligence community?  The FBI keeps a huge amount of files containing all the goodies on King's questionable political affiliations and personal life under lock and key.  King himself was becoming rather isolated and unstable toward the end of his life, and the Establishment needed a martyr to keep the civil rights movement going.  When King was assassinated, America's ghettoes erupted in riots, thus forming the popular support for the machinations already going on behind the scenes.  During the 1960s, these events allowed the government to greatly expand its powers.  St. Paul teaches that even Satan \\"poses as an angel of light.\\"  So why not make the American people dependent on government handouts and regulations and line the pockets of international bankers and promote cultural destruction, in the name of \\"Equality,\\" and \\"Freedom\\"?    A section on Jesse Jackson is included, one of the most radical-leftists in politics.  The last part of this pamphlet describes the attack on South Africa by just about every single country in the world, and how the destruction of white nationalism in Africa has actually caused more material problems on the Dark Continent than they hoped to solve.  Griffin could have cited more of his sources in the text and elaborated his research in more detail. However, _Martin Luther King: The Man Behind the Myth_ has great quality in that it is the only publication which contradicts the pop-culture-cult around MLK and its misguided adherents.	2003-09-25
US	35854103	R3H0131I31W7L4	0814705871	293993896	Moses Hess: Prophet of Communism and Zionism (Modern Jewish Masters)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	&quot;Rabbi&quot; Moses Hess: Prophet of Communism and Zionism	_Moses Hess: Prophet of Communism and Zionism_ by Shlomo Avineri is about the socialist thought of a German Jewish contemporary of Karl Marx.  What makes Hess unique among his fellow radicals of the mid 19th century was that he came to advocate nationalist ideas for the Jewish people, and the establishment of a Jewish State in the Middle East as part of a larger socialist revolution in Europe.  In his early childhood, Hess was raised observing traditional Orthodox Jewish customs, but in his teens rebelled against them.  He studied at Hebrew schools and secular institutions on and off, but never received the comprehensive formal education like so many political radicals of that time.  He was most influenced by the writings of the German theorist Hegel and the scientific-rationalist Jewish philosopher Baruch Spinoza.  As a secular agnostic, Hess rejected both Jewish and Christian theology but tried to put them in perspective as to how they would relate to modern socialist theory.  Hess' main argument, derived from Spinoza, was that of the &quot;unity of spirit and matter.&quot;  There is no afterlife, no kingdom of God in the next world, but perfection could be reached in this world, in this life.  According to Hess, what was needed was radical economic change--not a redistribution of goods but rather an increase in production (so there'd be more to go around).  The kingdom of God, an earthly Utopia, would be realized by economic restructuring and social action-the dreamy eyed vision of a collective welfare state of leftists the world over.  Hess differed from Marx is his assessment of the historical roles Christianity and Judaism played out.  Marx considered Judaism to be the inspiration of modern capitalism, while Hess saw Christianity's goal of individual salvation as the foundation behind capitalist greed.  Hess also maintained a three-stage development theory of religion in history.  The first, Judaism, was a feminine socialistic creed, but in it God's grace extended only to those in the tribe.  Secondly, Christianity, arose stressing the salvation of the individual and, also unlike Judaism, was applied universally to believers of all nations.  The third stage, heralded by Spinoza, was that of the socialist revolution.  Socialism is universal like Christianity, but group-orientated like Judaism.  Hess viewed Judaism as a religion that had a future to it while Christianity was on the decline, and saw socialist themes even in the most extreme and reactionary branch of Hassidism.  Russia was the country most feared by Hess, as Russia always intervened in Europe's conflicts on the side of reactionary counter-revolution.  Russia helped defeat Napoleon and reverse the French Revolution, and intervened on the side of Europe's Christian monarchs during the revolutions of 1848-9.  Hess feared that a socialist take-over in Russia would be one that would go backward into primitive peasantry, rather than an economically progressive state.<br />The most interesting part of _Moses Hess_ was the second half of the book which discussed Hess's major work, published in 1862, _Rome and Jerusalem_.  In this book, Hess deviated from much socialist thought.  Here he advocated a return of the Jews to form their own state in the Middle East.  He also viewed the Jews as a nation, having their own customs and being different from the peoples in whom they lived, as the French, Germans and English differ from one another.  The difference is not merely one of religion, contra-liberal polemics, and Hess took his inspiration from other nationalist movements at the time: the unification of Italy, unrest in the Austrian Empire, etc.  Most of the revolutions of the 19th and early 20th centuries were nationalist in character, not the international rising of the proletariat that Marx envisioned.  Hess took into account the popular aspect of nationality and how it could be used in radical, revolutionary politics.  Professor Avineri's book is an informative read showing the common links between Marx's international communism, Jewish nationalism/Zionism in addition to anti-Christian secular-humanist utopianism from the past 150 years.  It also begs the question: why would Hess promote secularism and internationalism for Europe but nationalism and ancestral religion for his own people?	2003-09-22
US	35854103	R1ANNSKNY10NWS	155972014X	368769477	Unreality Industry: The Deliberate Manufacturing of Falsehood and What It Is Doing to Our Lives	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Feelin' the Late 'Eighties Burnout...	Mitroff and Bennis' _The Unreality Industry_ is about the nature of unreality and how the manufacturing of unreality is taking over America.  Needless to state, TV is the primary medium of unreality, with the disconnected, a-historical context which it presents its news and entertainment material.  The authors take care to outline the dichotomy between reality and unreality.  Reality is very difficult to understand, is stressful to deal with, and only increases in its complexity.  Unreality is simple, mindless, and creates the illusion (computer games, movies) of some kind of control over one's surroundings.  Our embrace of unreality as a means of escape from the harshness and confounding nature of reality is deeply rooted in US culture: bigger is better, the infallibility of science and technology, the veneration of &quot;progress&quot;.  One aspect of unreality is that it employs &quot;boundary warping&quot; to catch the audience's attention.  &quot;Boundary warping&quot; entails the near complete destruction of rational thought processes and categorization, the lack of any organization and coherence.  The MTV music video is where &quot;boundary warping&quot; will find its most unadulterated manifestation--brightness, quick movement, lack of central focus, erotic images, disconnected and apocalyptic themes.  It is often difficult to differentiate between male and female for instance and some androgyny or hybrid concoction is the norm (sounds like Gnostic Gnostalgia to me, but the book doesn't take the analysis that far).  Another phenomenon that figures in unreality the commercialized, systematized and industrialized manufacture of celebrities.  They have a mass-market appeal for various audiences, such as movie stars, sports figures, political parties, etc.  The entertainment industry uses archetypes to sell its products as well.  Archetypes, the primal images and ideas that unite humanity embodied in fairy tales, religions and myths, are constantly being re-hashed into different combinations to create stereotypical programming for the masses.  The US is increasingly becoming a &quot;leaderless&quot; society, with true leadership replaced by managerial and bureaucratic ability.  A chapter is devoted to the &quot;Metaphysics of Sappiness&quot; i.e., the dummying-down of society and discourse between people.  With the advent of the electronic age, when people get together in large groups, it is usually for the purpose of entertaining each other rather than for intellectual conversation.  In all, the authors seem to support the idea that the masses are not able to tolerate sustained inquiry, however, they warn against the trap of becoming too pessimistic.  Obviously, this subject matter is going to arouse some controversy, and the authors pre-empt the criticism.  They explicitly state in their introduction that their study in _The Unreality Industry_ would be one of a moral argument rather than one of dispassionate objectivity.  Perhaps it can be said that Mitroff (a Ph.D. in engineering) and Bennis (a Ph.D. in economics from MIT) are two eggheads distasteful of the lack of more cultured programming (they like _Masterpiece Theatre_ for example).  But in all, this book was written in 1989--the end of the Eighties.  What did come out of the Eighties?  Reaganomics, yuppies, video games, Madonna, Gorbechev, crack, hair-bands?  _The Unreality Industry_ is late-Eighties burnout, pure and simple, and as we just wrapped up the Nineties a couple years ago, the idea that unreality is in total control is more relevant than ever.	2003-09-20
US	35854103	R3K3H4FFH0E95H	1570270392	317643719	Dreamer of the Day: Francis Parker Yockey & The Postwar Fascist International	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Francis Parker Yockey and the Commie-Nazis.	_Dreamer of the Day: Francis Parker Yockey and the Postwar Fascist International_ by Kevin Coogan is an encyclopedia of the far right before and after WWII.  The focus here is on the more esoteric, occult groups.  Some of these fascist, white-racist and anti-Jewish groups also had complicated ties to one another, a plethora of ideologues, and some unusual ties to other radical political groups.  These strange underground, \\"conspiratorial\\" connections are examined through the lens of the life of Francis Parker Yockey, best known for his lengthy neo-Nazi treatise, _Imperium_.  _Imperium_ was written under the name \\"Ulick Varange,\\" a connotation of pan-European unity, \\"Ireland to Russia.\\"  Yockey, it appears, tried to form an alliance with fascists and neo-Nazis in Europe with the Soviet Union to overthrow the American military domination of Europe.  There is some speculation that the Soviet Union was promoting the activity of the radical right after WWII for its own purposes.  Yockey is especially noted for being a magna cum laude graduate of Notre Dame law school, a considerable credential for an American fascist sympathizer.  _Dreamer of the Day_ starts by narrating the incident of Yockey's arrest for passport fraud and his subsequent suicide in a San Francisco prison.  Coogan goes on, tracing Yockey's early life and the philosophies he imbibed that led him to his life of intrigue.  Oswald Spengler was the reactionary author of _The Decline of the West_, _Man and Technics_, and _The Hour of Decision_, which looked towards the future of the West as one of eventual cultural decay and death as part of an ongoing organic process.  Yockey differed from Spengler in that regression towards Caesarism (like Hitler's Nazi regime) would give the West a renewed vitality.  The book then goes on to recount Yockey's travels around the world, meeting with fellow fascists.  It is very had to follow his trail (Coogan researched FBI records) and his political connections, not to mention his numerous mistresses.   <br />One of Coogan's strong points is that he goes to extreme length to carefully define the differences between the different theories on the right-wing, especially how they differed from the Hitler/Alfred Rosenburg official Nazi line on geopolitics and race.  Spengler, and fellow Sicilian \\"Conservative Revolutionary\\" Julius Evola did not hold onto the Nazi ideal of the superiority of the German Nordic race.  Evola presented in his work a more \\"spiritual\\" notion of race.  Evola found \\"Aryan\\" elements in all the world's ancient traditions, and Spengler rejected the idea of a master race.  Yockey's interest in pornography and S/M is also covered in detail.  Otto Weininger, an obscure Viennese Jewish author heavily influenced the occult right with his book on sexual polarity and the need for a patriarchal domination of society,  _Sex and Character_.  Yockey's work has found its greatest exponent in Willis Carto, the founder of Liberty Lobby, who published _Imperium_ in America in 1961.  The National Alliance has also promoted _Imperium_.  In spite of these endorsements, the most famous American neo-Nazi, George Lincoln Rockwell viewed Yockey highly with suspicion.  Even the issue of homosexuality among the Nazi movement is brought to attention (see _The Pink Swastika_, a book which refutes itself).  Even several Satanist and Norse-pagan groups and \\"Black Metal\\" bands have taken attention to Yockey's work and the pessimistic theories of Oswald Spengler.  What is the most interesting is the praise some in the radical right gave towards the Soviet Union, Fidel Castro, Gamal Abdel Nasser, Moammar Qaddafi and other third world dictators.  One Nazi theorist, Strasser, looked at Nazi Germany not as part of the West, but as part of an anti-Western irrational barbarian movement aligned with Russia, China, India, Latin America and Africa.  The common thread that all extremist movements spin is that of anti-Americanism, anti-Globalism, a defense oftraditional tribal boundaries, and a revolt against consumerist bourgeoisie society.  Jews appear the strongest group in such a world order, hence the common animosity towards them from neo-Nazis, the Nation of Islam and the Taliban alike. Yockey saw the hanging of eleven Zionist Jews in Prague by the Communist regime in Prague as a harbinger of a possible alliance between Soviet military power and neo-Nazi subversion of the American-Zionist-capitalist world order. In all, _Dreamer of the Day_ breaks boundaries between \\"right\\" and \\"left,\\" and shows just how \\"conservative\\" the radical right actually is.  This makes more sense considering that this book is published by Autonomedia, who appear to want as much cultural anarchy as possible looking at their other titles.  As far as a resource book goes which links books, personages and crazy theories, _Dreamer of the Day_ is the most comprehensive volume that I've read.	2003-09-19
US	35854103	R3M9WQDQXH20C4	015679201X	821855727	The Sacred and The Profane: The Nature of Religion	Books	5	23	24	N	N	The Ontological Nature of Religion	_The Sacred and the Profane_ by Mircea Eliade is a work that examines (or attempts to examine) the ontological meaning of religion and religious experience.  It is an excellent, if highly abstract work that tries to explain what it means to actually be.  Religious experience is that of knowledge of the sacred and the meanings attached to it.  The sacred distinguishes itself from the profane by what Eliade terms a \\"hierophany\\" or manifestation of the sacred.  The sacred indicates a break in profane existence, both in space and time.  Space becomes sacred when it has a meaning above and beyond itself, and time becomes sacred when it hearkens back to man's primordial beginnings, rooted in myth.  It symbolizes death and rebirth.  _The Sacred and the Profane_ covers foundation ceremonies, ritual sacrifices, the \\"axis mundi\\", New Year's celebrations, the polarity between sun and moon, masculine and feminine, rites of initiation (such as baptism and its parallels in other religions), and modern man's fall into an almost completely profane world.  Eliade, who was affiliated with a pro-fascist revolutionary group (whose slogan was \\"long live death!\\") in his native Romania, is hoping toward some type of spiritual revival.  Religious man, contrary to modernist doctrines, actually looks for the deeper value in mere existential being, rooted in something above and beyond himself, the true nature of Reality.  In the conclusion of _The Sacred and the Profane_  Eliade ponders why religion has fallen away in the West today.  Religious man looked toward a hypothetical Golden Age, Garden of Eden, Elysian Fields, Paradise, etc, as something which had existed in the mythical past and to which fallen humanity would someday return.  This consciousness has been lost from modern man, and Eliade considers this question to be beyond the realm of pure history, and perhaps a thing to be investigated by \\"even theologians.\\"	2003-09-13
US	35854103	R37EJQCUZA3995	188790400X	390552509	Orthodoxy and the Religion of the Future	Books	4	8	15	N	N	A Russian Orthodox Monk versus the Visitors...	Fr. Seraphim Rose's _Orthodoxy and the Religion of the Future_ is a pretentious, presumptuous and fanatical look at some New Age beliefs, UFOs and Pentecostalism from the perspective of a Monk in the Russian Orthodox Church.  Fr. Seraphim's strong point is that he can pick apart how different these are from traditional Christian interpretation.  However, he does go overboard in a blanket condemnation of all non-Orthodox faiths, assigning them to demonic origins.  _Orthodoxy and the Religion of the Future_  is very interesting to read, despite its frustrated, impatient tone.  The central argument is that ancient Orthodox Christianity is being overwhelmed by the self-centered, self-gratifying, subjective pagan spirituality that is ascendant worldwide.  It is very eclectic and poorly organized, so I'll separate my thoughts by chapter.<br />The Preface: attacks Roman Catholicism, evangelical Protestantism, and the ecumenical movement.<br />\\"The Monotheistic Religions\\".  Here Fr. Seraphim refutes the commonly repeated postulate that Islam, Judaism and Christianity are of the same theological background, with Jews and Muslims considered the literal descendants of Abraham through Isaac and Ishmael.  Orthodox theology is given a quick review to clarify where the person of Christ stands in comparison to Islam and Judaism.  Jesus is considered merely a prophet in Islam, as opposed to the Son of God.  Judaism's rabbinical texts revile Jesus as the son of a whore and a heretic.<br />Two chapters, \\"Power of the Pagan Gods\\" and \\"The Fakir's 'Miracle'\\" are not written by Fr. Seraphim, but are accounts of some negative aspects of Eastern meditation and a \\"miracle\\" produced by a Hindu fakir, that the account assigns to demonic possession.<br />\\"Eastern Meditation Invades Christianity\\". Fr. Seraphim covers yoga, Zen Buddhism, and Transcendental Meditation, and how they have infiltrated mainstream Christianity in America.<br />\\"New Religious Consciousness\\".  More infiltration of Christianity by Eastern cults, the cult leader Guru Maharaj-ji whose followers worshipped him as an incarnate god, Tantric Yoga and Zen training at Mt. Shasta in N. California.  Fr. Seraphim notes that these are similar in that they are this-worldly, passive, influenced by Hinduism, advocate a secular worldview and spiritism.<br />\\"Signs From Heaven.  An Orthodox Christian Understanding of Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)\\": This is by far the most interesting chapter.  The popular culture of science fiction media promotes a secular, universal utopian environment.  The different types of UFO encounters are briefly described, and Fr. Seraphim comes to the conclusion that UFOs and visitations by \\"extraterrestrials\\" are in fact demons who are using an \\"upbeat\\" method to deceive the world.<br />\\"Charismatic Revival\\". The Pentecostal trend in evangelical, fundamentalist Christianity.  Fr. Seraphim compares the stoic, detached, otherworldly spiritual experience of Orthodoxy to the irrational, emotionalism, and anti-historical realm of Charismatic experience.  These spiritual states also can be brought about by demonic powers.  In case one thinks Fr. Seraphim is being radically arbitrary in making these judgements, he supports his statements with prophecies and teachings from ancient Church Fathers.<br />\\"Spirit of the Last Times\\": How the contemporary religious scene is pointing towards the Antichrist.  The greatest heresy of all times is identified as \\"Chiliasm,\\" which is the hope that the world will be perfected through man's effort (witness Communism, humanitarianism who all have grandiose plans but fall short of the mark because of human nature).  Fr. Seraphim also identifies the Antichrist as a person who will give all appearances of actually being Jesus Christ, ruling over an earthly \\"millenium\\" kingdom from a restored temple in Jerusalem.	2003-09-11
US	35854103	R39CM0F2XAQ3E8	0892819057	72807715	Men Among the Ruins: Post-War Reflections of a Radical Traditionalist	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Julius Evola's Men Among the Ruins	The first half of this edition of _Men Among the Ruins_ is an essay by Dr. H. T. Hansen putting the controversial thought of the ultra-reactionary Sicilian nobleman Julius Evola regarding Nazism, Fascism, the Aryan race, the Jewish-Masonic conspiracy and the SS into an historical perspective.  Evola's political theory is radically anti-modernist to the core; anti-democratic, instead idealizing the ancient tradition of the warrior caste, the Kshatriyas in Hinduism.  The proper government should be a Hierarchy, Greek for \\"Rule of the Sacred.\\"  The government should look to the Above as a base for authority rather than to the common mass of humanity below.  He comments on the demonic nature of the economy, as it brings people away from the true transcendent spiritual reality behind our mundane existence.  In traditional historiography, events were looked upon as an unfolding dualistic occult war between the powers of Cosmos and Chaos, like the Christian view of history as an unfolding of Divine Providence, good versus evil, Christ versus Antichrist. There is a metaphysical dimension to history that needs to be taken into account but which never is nowadays.  On the side of Cosmos are \\"form, order, law, spiritual hierarchy, and tradition in the higher sense of the world.\\"  To Chaos belongs \\"every influence that disintegrates, subverts, degrades, and promotes the preponderance of the inferior over the superior, matter over spirit, quantity over quality.\\"  Evola criticizes Catholicism in his native Italy as not being a universal creed, along with the Church's eager striving to \\"update\\" itself with the modern world.  _The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion_ is the notorious document which apparently reveals the methods of the Jewish-Masonic conspiracy to take over the world to make it a secularized welfare-slave state.  Evola maintains the partial-accuracy of the _Protocols_, but admits that they do not tell the whole story and are too simplified.  After all, the secret occult rulers of the world would not just leave the Master Plan of the Ages out on a table for everyone to find out all about them would they?<br />A particular area where Evola differs from most right-wingers is his outlook towards birth control.  The problem of the \\"bestial fecundity\\" of the proletariat (the word proletarian itself derived from an old Latin word meaning to reproduce like beasts) should be something that is taken into account in social policy.  The government should try to improve the racial character of its people, and give a certain amount of reproductive freedom to the more capable people in the populace.  Evola, at the same time, recognizes the legitimacy of the celibate traditions in the world's faiths that disavow marriage, having children and the use of women.  He criticizes the Catholic stance on birth control, as the _Humanae Vitae_ encyclical itself states that birth control is desirable, but only the unreliable \\"rhythm method\\" is morally permissible.  Evola will jar a fair amount of sensibilities when he exposes the \\"bourgeoisie cult of children and having children\\" as an illusion, when he points out that most couples get married for personal happiness rather than having children, and many get married without the intent of having any.  Evola's entire take on the domain of marriage, children and celibacy is the most coherent that I have ever read.  The \\"men among the ruins\\" that the book takes its title from are those scattered, isolated individuals around the world who see the modern world for the sham that it is, and maintain a vision of a Europe in spiritual unity with the divine.  There is something in here to offend everybody, no matter his or her political or religious orientation.  Also recommended: _Revolt Against the Modern World_.et occult rulers of the world would not just leave the Master Plan of the Ages out on a table for everyone to find out all about them would they?<br />A particular area where Evola differs from most right-wingers is his outlook towards birth control.  The problem of the \\"bestial fecundity\\" of the proletariat (the word proletarian itself derived from an old Latin word meaning to reproduce like beasts) should be something that is taken into account in social policy.  The government should try to improve the racial character of its people, and give a certain amount of reproductive freedom to the more capable people in the populace.  Evola, at the same time, recognizes the legitimacy of the celibate traditions in the world's faiths that disavow marriage, having children and the use of women.  He criticizes the Catholic stance on birth control, as the _Humanae Vitae_ encyclical itself states that birth control is desirable, but only the unreliable \\"rhythm method\\" is morally permissible.  Evola will jar a fair amount of sensibilities when he exposes the \\"bourgeoisie cult of children and having children\\" as an illusion, when he points out that most couples get married for personal happiness rather than having children, and many get married without the intent of having any.  Evola's entire take on the domain of marriage, children and celibacy is the most coherent that I have ever read.  The \\"men among the ruins\\" that the book takes its title from are those scattered, isolated individuals around the world who see the modern world for the sham that it is, and maintain a vision of a Europe in spiritual unity with the divine.  There is something in here to offend everybody, no matter his or her political or religious orientation.  Also recommended: _Revolt Against the Modern World_.	2003-09-11
US	35854103	RLQYHLYBZ05JC	1859843239	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	5	32	47	N	N	Norman Finkelstein's "Holocaust Industry"	If anyone has been a wee-bit suspicious of the way America is run, the Middle East conflict, and the ponderous influence that the organized American Jewish community wields in international affairs, then get your hands on a copy of this book now.  Why is the Holocaust such an omnipresent factor in American culture and in our collective historical consciousness?  Is it because after the Six Day War in which Israel seized by force the West Bank, Gaza Strip and the Golan Heights from its Arab neighbors, many Jews and Israeli national interests needed to provide a massive incident of Jewish suffering to further their political goals and provide justification for Israel's continuing acts of aggression in regards towards bordering states?  Furthermore, did the Jews need to misconstrue an historical event in order to portray themselves as an underdog, a constantly oppressed and tormented people, despite their power and affluence?  Consider the following quote from Finkelstein:  \\"The Holocaust has proven to be an indispensable ideological weapon.  Through its deployment, one of the world's most formidable military powers, with a horrendous human rights record, has cast itself as a `victim' state, and the most successful ethnic group in the United States has likewise acquired victim status.\\"  This book makes plain a lot of questionable actions and beliefs held by the Jewish bearers of the Holocaust remembrance flame.  Although if you question them in any way, shape or form, it is \\"anti-Semitic,\\" Finkelstein states some of the attitudes surrounding the Holocaust need to be reexamined.  \\"The Holocaust Industry\\" as Finkelstein calls it, are money making gimmicks (such as the multi-million dollar reparations from Switzerland) that serve more to \\"Jewish aggrandizement than to Jewish suffering.\\"  Read this book if you dare to hearken to something that casts a few of the \\"Chosen People\\" in a less than godly role.  By the way, _The Holocaust Industry_ is written by a Jewish, left-wing, anti-American author.	2003-09-07
US	35854103	R3L0QGV03GYZQQ	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Pat Buchanan's Death of the West.	Election 2000 Presidential Canidate Pat Buchanan's bestseller _The Death of the West_ is a great introduction to the cultural problems that Western Civilization faces, and where it is headed if things continue as they are--to extinction.  I can't really comment on this book too much without repeating the basic statements of the multitude of other reviewers who are more well-read and intelligent than myself.  I disliked the constant references to the Confederacy and the Papacy as being off task. However, it is an informative read about the destruction of Christianity and the collective-suicide of those of European descent.	2003-09-06
US	35854103	RA0EQO90VBEJQ	158509093X	674270183	The Secret World Government or "The Hidden Hand": The Unrevealed in History	Books	3	36	53	N	N	A radical and offensive rant--with a few good points.	The Book Tree publishing company is not lying when they advertise Count Cherep's _The Secret World Government or \\"The Hidden Hand\\": The Unrevealed in History_ as \\"a radical, almost never ending rant from beginning to end\\" and warning that \\"whatever truth does exist in the book must be carefully extracted.\\"  The first paragraph calls Jews satanists, quotes from the Bible, talks of the destruction of the Aryan race, and says that the \\"Judeo-Mongol Hidden Hand\\" secretly controls the world.  Maj.-Gen. Count Cherep-Spiridovich was a Russian military officer who moved to the United States following WWI.  His _Secret World Government_ is a book originally published by the Anti-Bolshevist Publishing Association in New York City in 1925.  Its main subject is that of the Jewish conspiracy to take over the world.  Cherep bases his theories on the position that Christ declared the Jews murderers who do the work of their father the devil.  The Jews are out to cause wars through their banking manipulations, and to cause the destruction of the Aryan race through bloodshed.  Most of the book focuses on the period between the late 1700s with the rise of Meyer Amschel who fathered the Rothschild Jewish banking family, to the 1920s with the Russian Revolution, the Bolshevik regime in Russia and the communist liquidation of the Romanov family.  _The Secret World Government_ concentrates on the Rothschild family and how they branched into all corners of Europe in the 19th century.  They supported leaders who would start wars, such as Napoleon, Disraeli, Bismark, and the Confederates.  The Rothschilds used Napoleon Bonaparte to weaken Britain, but then turned against Napoleon when it seemed that he became too friendly toward the Catholic Church (Cherep is a Catholic and theorizes that the reason Christendom is broken off into so many factions is the machinations of the Jews).  Disraeli was Jewish, of course (but baptized a Christian), and he got England in a war with Russia.  Otto von Bismark is thought by Cherep to be secretly Jewish.  Much of Cherep's time is spent eulogizing the Czars of Russia, who were victims of Jewish plots against the Christian monarchies of Europe.  They are especially praised for their intervention in saving the Union during the civil war, when the Jews sent French and Austrian troops into Mexico to possibly help the South destroy the United States.  The brain of the Confederacy was its Jewish secretary of war, Judah P. Benjamin.  The Czar sent his navy to the aid of Lincoln in case Britain and France should intervene militarily on the side of the Confederacy.  This fact, as Cherep notes, is little mentioned in history.  He even warns the US of an impending Japanese assault and of a planned second World War.  The book suffers from being its extremely poor organization (which Cherep apologizes for) and being set in a difficult typeface.  All in all, The Secret World Government is a droll read for conspiracy theorists or if you like bizarre, radical, rants and raves.	2003-09-01
US	35854103	R37VF4X93K4JHY	0670878839	302291051	The Alphabet Versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image	Books	4	7	14	N	N	Why not a scientific validation of a Feminist myth?	_The Alphabet versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image_ is a lengthy tome that tries to make a synthesis of the religious, social, political, economic and cultural conflicts that human history consists of.  The cover has an interesting illustration of a serene woman's profile, crowned with a halo of stars, inundated by mechanistic looking letters and numbers.  Dr. Leonard Shlain (a neurosurgeon) advances his theory that a major factor of change is that of alphabet literacy, which in and of itself reflects right and left sides of the brain in interpreting reality, and the conflict of masculine and feminine values.  The left brain, which uses words, abstract, more developed verbal and systematic thinking, is \\"masculine,\\" and it is complemented by the right brain, which represents the feminine values of tolerance, images, non-verbal communication, intuition and holistic thinking.  The placement of gender to the sides of the brain is a bit questionable.  It can be argued with just as much validity that the left brain, with its verbal strength is feminine (chitchatting on the phone) versus the left brain and its emphasis on visual-spatial ability being masculine (fixing the car).  Although I am not a brain surgeon, I will try to comment on this work as clearly as possible.  Shlain's book is based on the feminist myth that stone-age man's universal primordial religion was that of Mother Goddess worship.  The early societies were those of peace, harmony, where women had the predominant role in social affairs.  This hypothetical Goddess was not venerated by a codified worship system, or by texts of sacred scriptures; instead it employed images: statues, pictures, artwork, icons and the like.  This was eventually replaced by the advent of masculine sky gods, who were frequently portrayed as warriors with weapons and whose exploits were written down in sacred texts.  The use of the alphabet in written language used the left brain more than the right brain, andthus masculine values (work, objectivity, rules, hierarchy, abstract view of God rather than one of personal mystical intuitive experience) and males took precedence over females.  That's how that notorious patriarchy of sorts that feminists actually believe exists somewhere to oppress women originated.  Some of the more notable \\"left brained\\" movements in history were the Hebrew religion (Yahweh), the Greek city-state of Athens, early Christianity, Islam, the Protestant Reformation, objective science, Communism and the Taliban.  Shlain notes that all of these happened just as the societies where these events took place were undergoing an increase of literacy, and the spread of written books.  If there is a man that sums up the left-brained credo in full, it is of course John Calvin.  Predestination, banning of images and decorations in Church, the emphasis on the study of the Bible as God's written word are left brained in the extreme.  However, beginning in the 19th century, with the advent of the technology to create a mass media based on speech (radio), images (photography, magazines) and moving images (cinema, TV) we are becoming much more right brained, feminine in outlook.  (As far as I can tell, there is little Calvinism left in evangelical Christianity.)  This has gone to far, says Shlain, as the consequences of this are moral relativism, sexual promiscuity, lack of individuality and increasingly violent entertainment, all of which presuppose images rather than rationally thought textual planning.  The West may need to return to some of those tried-and-true \\"left brained\\" values of structure to achieve some kind of balance.  The Alphabet versus the Goddess goes into all sorts of metaphysical commentary on an endless variety of subjects.  I don't personally agree with a lot of Shlain's values (they point out masculine, Christian Europe as the cause of all the evil in the world) and his view on religon (implicit dislike of Christianity as \\"intolerant\\"), but this book does make one think.  It is very interesting to read and revealing in the language-brain-society process operates despite its obvious flaws.  You would think literacy is a Sacred Cow that cannot really be portrayed as negative--but it is here in this decidedly postmodern volume.	2003-08-26
US	35854103	R23GZTGQ38WLAU	0809465167	913593697	Cosmic Duality (Mysteries of the Unknown)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Cosmic Duality	_Cosmic Duality_, a layman's metaphysical study by Time Life, is about the opposing forces in the Cosmos, their root in religious traditions, and what they mean for humanity and man's spiritual quest.  In the universe there are many dualities: God and Satan, light and darkness, male and female, good and evil, innocence and experience, life and death.  The most openly dualistic religion of all time is that of the Persian prophet Zoroaster (Zarathustra), with the good God in eternal conflict with the god of destruction.  Zoroaster preached an anti-ascetic creed, as the things of this world are the creation of the good deity.  Other religions looked at matter, considering it evil, such as the later Gnostics, Manicheans, Bogomils and Cathars, who were heretics as they considered the material presence of Christ and the Cross as wicked and to be ashamed of.  Alchemists tried to integrate their souls into a fusion with eternity, along with their well-known attempts to transform base metal into gold.  The philosophies of Descartes and Marx are also discussed as coming from earlier dualistic methods of thought.  The treatment of the duality between men and women is not very informative, as this book is published by the Establishment, and the difference between the sexes is looked at as socially constructed although the sociobiological standpoint is briefly mentioned.  A great many bizarre subjects are touched upon including exorcism, apparitions of the Virgin Mary, Satanism, the dark side of fairy tales, angelic hierarchies, voodoo, witchcraft, pagan fertility rite, Tantric sex-magic, hermaphrodites,  the Seven Deadly Sins, stigmata, Yin-yang, odd religious cults and a host of other things.  _Cosmic Duality_ is a work of relativism, not of definite insight, leaning toward the feminist Mother Goddess myth as humanity's primordial faith, along with theological and social liberalism in general.  However, it does end with a statement by William James, \\"one might say that it consists of a belief that there is an unseen order, and that our supreme good lies in harmoniously adjusting ourselves thereto.\\"	2003-08-24
US	35854103	RIXQG0I9G3PE1	0911165126	799617873	The Roman West and the Byzantine East	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Re-thinking Western Christianity.	_The Roman West and the Byzantine East_ is a small book consisting of two essays written by two traditionalist Greek Orthodox Bishops.  It is published by the Center for Traditionalist Orthodox Studies, and the authors advocate the use of the old calendar (Julian) rather than the new calendar (Gregorian) to schedule the dates of Church festivals.  The first essay, &quot;Historiography and the Christian Church&quot;, discusses the difference between the ways that the history of Christianity, its origins and spread, are viewed in the West by Catholics and Protestants and in the East by the Orthodox.  The Western version looks at Christianity taking root in the decadent pagan Roman Empire as an historical anomaly, the rise of the Roman Pontiff as both spiritual and temporal authority when the Roman Empire disintegrated, and the major split of the Church being the one in the 1500s with Martin Luther's Protestant Reformation.  The Orthodox from the start take a more positive view of the Roman Empire, as it was an expression of the unity of the ancient known world to know God, and it was founded on the wisdom of the Greek philosophers.  The Greek philosophers were pagan in the sense that they only had their human intuition to go by, and did not receive the Divine Revelation of Christ.  The Church succeeded because God planned it to be so.  The Emperor Constantine, despite his considerable personal shortfalls, worked to solidify the unity of the Church and recognized that that was God's mission for him to do.  The Church councils which determined the theological stances regarding the Trinity, the Nature of Christ and Canon Law were authoritative not because they were presided over by the Roman Pope, but because they reflected the general consensus of the Catholic Christian Church.  The second essay, &quot;Theology in the East and West,&quot; is about the considerably wide gulf between the views on the nature of God.  Western theology frequently starts with the question ofwhether or not God exists and sometimes tries to prove His existence philosophically.  Western theology also tends to anthropomorphize God too much, as Western notions of God view Him as being reflected in nature and the &quot;inner God&quot; within individual persons, the &quot;leap of faith.&quot;  What atheism rejects is the anthropomorphized God.  The Eastern Orthodox assume God exists, and the central question is how man can reach and become more like God.  This assumption takes place in an ontological way, beyond words.  Man cannot comprehend or experience the Essence of God, but he can partake of the Energies of God.  The Western theme of man's salvation is somewhat legalistic, which itself provokes rebellion against the religious.  The Orthodox view of salvation is geared to the old Patristic theme of &quot;God became man so that man might become God.&quot;  Heaven is where man has reached his highest in the divine, while Hell is where man has negated God's ways into total meaninglessness and oblivion.  _The Roman West and the Byzantine East_ is definitely a book that is radically different from most Christian literature, and it actually will make you think a little out of the box.  There is no liberal Christianity here (no pews in Church, the priests have to wear robes at all times and never shave or cut their hair, and the virginity of monastic life is to be held as the highest ideal of this earth) as the authors are pretty clear that they take a reactionary position regarding the ecumenical movement which the Orthodox have been participants.	2003-08-23
US	35854103	R1OMQD4K7T6J98	1840460679	846891365	Introducing Sociology	Books	2	3	12	N	N	Society.	_Introducing Sociology_ by Richard Osborne and heavily-illustrated surrealistic-comic-book-style by Borin Van Loon gives a beginner's outline to the science, study, discipline or whatever you want to call it, of sociology.  Sociology attempts to figure out how society, especially how the ever-increasingly complex, modern Western societies are constructed, structured, operate, interact, and what the role of class, race, gender and above all, economics, plays in them.  This book goes through all the major theories and thinkers, but is overly-confused by smoke from the crack-pipes of Marxism and radical feminism.  A central point is noted toward the end of the book:  that of the transformation of the West in the 19th and 20th centuries from an agricultural, Christian and aristocratic base to industrialism, secularism, pleasure-seeking hedonism and sensualism.  This is the root of the predicament that Western society is in today, but you won't hear a whole lot about it in the PC New Left and neoconservative academia.  The author also dismisses in an offensively condescending manner sociobiology and the evoloutionary Darwinist perspective--that the determining factors of how different cultural groups, races and genders in society act are rooted in heredity rather than in social conditioning.  This of course will lead to \\"racism and the holocaust.\\"  _Introducing Sociology_ is a rather quirky yet serious overview of sociology, and the author at the end admits that he cannot come to any decisive conclusion about the study of society in our ever-morphing postmodern world, where individuals live in \\"hyperreality\\"; learning more from mass-media and its contrived, false images than from the real world itself.  I wish I knew the reasoning behind the cover illustration, a half-human, half-robot woman in a bikini with a human embryo attached to her hip in a huge test-tube, reading a book upside down.	2003-08-21
US	35854103	R1DUMYWON6WEPS	046508138X	549201674	Basic Economics:  A Citizen's Guide to the Economy	Books	2	6	54	N	N	Pretty boring	_Basic Economics: A Citizen's Guide to the Economy_ by Thomas Sowell is among one of the most boring books that I have ever read, which hit me after I got past page 45 or so.  It is a layman's explanation of the principles of economics, written from the conservative capitalst free-market perspective.  Capitalism has its flaws, to be sure, but it is the best system availible when checked by nominal restrictions as it conforms to human nature and supply and demand, rather than government pre-planning.  Sowell's look at the needless crises caused by price controls was interesting and made a good deal of sense (his example was rent control causing housing shortages in major cities because leasing property to tenants became unprofitable to landlords and therefore no incentive is there to construct more apartment buildings).  After that section, Sowell's book tranquilized me when it went on about stock prices or something like that.  Economics isn't a topic that interests me a whole lot, except when its tied into something else like social policy or religious laws or whatever.  This book didn't get me interested although it is clearly well thought out regarding its topic.	2003-08-20
US	35854103	R1W5WYKOGOO6US	1881867005	212521249	Our Nordic Race	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A 1950's racial apocalypse.	_Our Nordic Race_ by Richard Kelly Hoskins, first published in 1958, claims to be one of the few books remaining that details the history of the white race as a whole.  It is written from a straightforward, ethno-centric standpoint and makes no apology about it.  Its audience is white southerners.  According to _Our Nordic Race_ the Nordics came from the North, the areas of Norway, Sweden, Denmark and northern Germany.  From there they spread out and conquered and brought civilization to all corners of the globe.  Ancient Greece, Rome, Egypt, the Sumerians, Babylonians, Hebrews, Phoenicians and Carthaginians were all originally Nordics, but these empires fell when the Nordic nobility began to be dependent on the importation and slave labor of colored races which led to racial mixing and cultural decline.  The later empires of Portugal, Spain, Italy, Byzantium and Russia also fell victim to this predicament.  Even the Oriental civilizations such as India, China, Japan, Korea and Southeast Asia may have originally been founded by Nordics.  India set up a caste system to seperate the ruling nobility from the lower-caste serfs.  In China there were legends of light haired, grey-eyed visitors who may have been a tribe of Nordics that had traveled eastward accross Asia.  Japananese, Korean and Southeast Asian civilizations were heavily influenced by China, which itself may have had a Nordic cultural base.  The strangest section is the mention of the Aztecs in Mexico and the Incas in South America, civilizations which sprang out of nowhere.  The Indians maintained legends of bearded, light-skinned gods who originally ruled over them, but had long since disappeared.  The Aztecs at first thought Spanish conquistador Cortez as one of these forgotten gods.  _Our Nordic Race_ focuses on the danger posed by racial integration, which has either destroyed or stagnated all Nordic civilizations in the past.  The analysis of Communism and Socialist theory pulls no punches and is straight to the point.  Communism was the main vehicle (at least when this book was written) to destroy the Nordics and to empower the international conspirators, originally the Khazars who converted to the religion of the Pharisees in the seventh century.  Hoskins shows the nonsense that the \\"one race, one class, one color\\" of Marxism is.  The omni-potent, all-controlling Socialist state will become and end in itself, only benifiting the small oligarchy who hold the reins of power over the banks, the media and the institutions of society.  _Our Nordic Race_ is an excellent, if paranoid, extreme, and outdated, look at the racial and economic problems the West faces, as well as the world view propounded by believers in the Aryan Myth as the origin of human civilization.  If the eventual extinction of the white race is a future reality, as it appears to be in the next hundred or so years, it will more likely be through a declining birth rate and mass-third world immigration rather than the violent slaughter that Hoskins describes.	2003-08-19
US	35854103	R2I25JZTVGU8VJ	0911038108	423573095	Imperium: Philosophy of History & Politics	Books	5	65	80	N	N	Dream--Dream--Dreamin'	Ulick Varange boasts that Francis Parker Yockey's _Imperium: A Philosophy of History and Politics_ is a \\"book like no other.\\" Varange's claim is validated. _Imperium_ is what you don't know about the forces and principles of history and politics as they relate to the most incendiary political/social movement of the 20th century: National Socialism. Although Yockey dedicates his work to \\"the Hero of the Second World War,\\" Hitler and Nazism are not explicitly mentioned in the book, but alluded to as being the harbringers of the \\"Spirit of the Twentieth Century\\" and the \\"Spirit of the Age.\\" Yockey labels the Nazi movement as \\"Ethical Socialism.\\" In the same vein Jews are mentioned by name but much more frequently as \\"culture distorters.\\" Franklin Delano Rooselvelt's administration is also not mentioned; it is referred to as the \\"American Revoloution of 1933\\" and the \\"Washington regime.\\" _Imperium_ is written after the style of the German philosopher Oswald Spengler in his delineating the organic rise and fall of High Cultures. The Western civilization reached its \\"Civilization\\" stage in the 18th and 19th centuries and heralded ideas such as democracy, capitalism, egalitarianism, communism, atheism, materialism and above all rationalism as opposed to the traditional structures of hierarchy, state, God, church, the Papacy and Empire. The whole book can almost be summed up as an anti-rationalist diatribe. The 19th century was marked by the rule of Money in human affairs, controlled by world Jewry, while this was shattered by Nazi Germany in the 20th century. Nationalism, which was a Cultural-destructive force in the early 19th century became Culture preserving in the 20th when it embraced all Western nations and their peoples as one unit with the same collective fate. This is the \\"Imperium\\" of which Yockey writes, a united right-wing European-American Empire dedicated to white supremacy and the destruction of democracy, egalitarianism, humanism and communism. Throughout _Imperium_ there is a constant frustration with America (Yockey was an American soldier in Germany at the end of WWII and _Imperium_ was written in 1948) and its treament of Germany and its brutal civilians both during and after the war. America is criticized for being a cultural wasteland demanding social uniformity without any root in tradition, but it is praised for its old-fashioned pioneer spirit and unsurpassed technical ability. However, the nation that recieves most of Yockey's vindictive is Russia. Yocky's anti-Semitism is as rationalized as possible--Jews function as a \\"parasite\\" in Western Culture where they gain control of and destroy society's institutions. However, this Jewish predominience is not viewed as being consciously evil on the part of Jews. It is organic just as anti-Semitism is viewed by Yockey as a reaction against of the host against its parasite--a natural process which is neither good or evil. The strength of Yockey's _Imperium_ is its \\"clarion call for Western unity\\" against the forces of dissoloution in the world. _Imperium_ certainly fails in its predictions, but it is a book well worth reading, despite its extreme length and occasional innacurate assessments. This qualifies Yockey as the \\"Dreamer of the Day\\" according to a biography about Yockey of the same title.	2003-08-07
US	35854103	R3HJYWFIL2JBVB	1573580600	948584995	The Wrath of Almighty God: (Jonathan Edwards on God's Judgment Against Sinners) (Great Awakening Writings (1725-1760))	Books	4	1	6	N	N	The "Fear Based" Spirituality of Puritan Jonathan Edwards	_The Wrath of Almighty God: Jonathan Edwards on God's Judgement Against Sinners_ is a collection of fire-and-brimstone sermons and writings by early America's formost Puritan theologian. The object of these, as the title explicitly indicates, is God's Wrath. Very few books go into this uncomfortable subject the way Edwards does. \\"Natural Men in a Dreadful Condition,\\" \\"Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God,\\" \\"The Justice of God in the Damnation of Sinners,\\" \\"The Final Judgement,\\" \\"The Portion of the Wicked,\\" \\"Wicked Men Useful in Their Destruction Only,\\" \\"The Future Punishment of the Wicked,\\" \\"Wrath to the Uttermost,\\" \\"Concerning Endless Punishment,\\" \\"The Eternity of Hell Torments\\" and \\"The End of the Wicked\\" make up the pantheon of sermon titles in this volume. Of these, \\"Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God\\" is by far the most well-known. The view of God expressed by Edwards (at least in this collection) is that of a God of Vengeance, who will punish the most minute sin with an eternity of Fire, Wrath and of course good old-fashioned Righteous Indignation. Consider the interpretation of the God Who speaks in Isiah 63:3, \\"I will tread them in Mine anger, and trample them in My fury, and their blood shall be sprinkled on My garments, and I will stain all My rainment\\": \\"It is perhaps impossible to concieve of words that carry in them greater manifestations of these three things: contempt, hatred, and fierceness of indignation...\\" _Wrath of Almighty God_ is very different from the implied threats of Hell in other branches of Christendom today. As I align myself with Eastern Orthodox theology, I find this Purtitan view to be moving away from (but NOT totally) the Orthodox doctrine of God as \\"philanthropos\\" or \\"Friend of Man.\\" If you want to read a treatise on God's justice for sheer shock value, than look no further, and hopefully you will feel how insignificant human beings are in the Splendor of the Divine.	2003-08-07
US	35854103	R3T2ZTQ8FPXM85	0898759838	2369481	Man and Technics: A Contribution to a Philosophy of Life	Books	4	33	39	N	N	Rage Against the Machine?!	The edition of _Man and Technics: A Contribution to a Philosophy of Life_ by Oswald Spengler that I read does not appear to be advertised on this website.  It is a small paperback printed in Britain by the European Books Society and features a pen-outline of a burly bald man wearing a suit and holding a cigar (presumably Spengler himself).  I found _Man and Technics_ to be a wierd philosophic exposition of the origins of humanity and the organic process of birth, flowering, decay and death that human Cultures inevitably face.  The greatest Culture of all is the Western or &quot;Faustian&quot; Culture which far outranks the Classical (Greco-Roman), Arabic, Chinese, Indian, Mexican Cultures.  It is something of a manifesto of extreme pessimism regarding the fate of the West and of its people in Europe and America.  The Faustian Culture, of which America is a younger shoot, based in Western Europe, began to form around 1000 AD and it is marked by spiritual uncertainty, but an innate ability in Spengler's theme of &quot;Technics.&quot;  Technics involves the use of the reasoning faculties of the Mind in accordance with the physical use and manipulations of objects by the Hand to make whatever that is outside of man's being in Nature subject to man's will.  This provides obvious advantages and also extremely serious disadvantages as well.  The more a group of human beings became more machine, material and industry orientated, the more they tried to control Nature--the more Nature will eventually bring about the destruction of the human Culture that builds itself up over time and becomes overgrown, the same as individual plants, animals and plants die--as living organisms.  Spengler, in the last page of _Man and Technics_ concludes that there is nothing that can be done to abort the fall of Faustian Civilization, which is ruined by internal decadence, economic competition from without, and the militancy of non-Western peoples who will use Western technology against Europeand America.  Spengler regards any notion of optimism about the outcome of human affairs to be cowardly and any hope of utopian salvation to be a flighty dream.  The best thing that any man can do in the face of eventual destruction is an honorable end following the choice of Achilles: &quot;Better a short life full of deeds and glory than a long life without content.&quot;  Spengler, a German philosopher influenced by the works of Nietzsche and contemorary with the National Socialist movement in Germany was a &quot;conservative revoloutionary&quot; opposed to the modern life of artificial material comfort and lack of individuality and spirit.  Spengler may be viewed as being &quot;racist,&quot; but his outlook on environmental damage was ahead of his time.  This book does not, nor is likely to, have a wide audience, but it gives a different view of history in which Cultures and Civilizations are viewed as living organisms which live and die rather than in the liberal/economic interpretations of human affairs currently ascendant in social-political theory.  Some of the material is outdated (_Man and Technics_ was written in the 1930s) and innacurate, but remains insightful in an analysis of the fate of the West today.	2003-08-06
US	35854103	R1T23DJA4F7FI5	0486419568	715011557	The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind	Books	5	188	197	N	N	Why I Avoid Large Groups of People.	_The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind_ by French social theorist Gustave LeBon is a short treatise on the principles of large gatherings of people.  As the disclaimer on the title page notes, the ideas in LeBon's book were popular at the time of the late 19th century but are no longer in vogue today.  The reasons for this are obvious, as LeBon unpretentiously puts to fault all the rhetoric about \\"democracy,\\" \\"equality,\\" \\"fraternity,\\" and \\"equality\\" as being mere catchphrases that self-serving demagouges use to control the spirit of the masses.  He cites the French Revoloution and the demands of Socialism and Communism during his time.  LeBon outlines the way crowds tend to think (in vivid images illogically connected), how they reason (they don't for all practical purposes), how they express exaggerated emotion, how they are very quick to take action without coherent thought and of the general extreme-conservativism and intolerance of crowds.  The individual who becomes part of a crowd tends to loose himself, and feels invincible as he is aware of the similarity of mind and purpose of all those surrounding him.  LeBon notes how individuals become unthinking entities of the Herd, and can be unconsciously made to do acts, which can either be of great criminality or heroism.  The reasoning of the solitary individual is superior to that of a crowd which has no individuality.  All are \\"equal\\" in a crowd where, for instance, a mathemetician is caught up in the same spirit as a laborer and class and intelligece differences fall to the lowest common denominator.  One advangage of crowds is that they can express the spirit of a class, caste, or race of a people better than the individual can, and that crowds are capable of great deeds such as victory in a war or the spread of a religion that would be beyond simply one person's effort.  The back title of _The Crowd_ mentions that Hitler, Mussolini in addition to Freud were familiar with LeBon's work, and it is readily apparent that their followers acted very similar to the behavior that LeBon describes.  The basic point of _The Crowd_ is this: For Bettor or Worse, Never Underestimate the Power of Stupid People in Large Groups.	2003-08-05
US	35854103	R3NYV1JJ591YDR	0875522858	183557332	The Gnostic Empire Strikes Back: An Old Heresy for the New Age	Books	5	29	41	N	N	Gnosticism:  A Common Thread of Heresy	_The Gnostic Empire Strikes Back_ by Peter Jones is a very short book on the nature of the ancient heresy of Gnosticism and its relation to the trendy, ultra-humanitarian New Age spiritual outlook today.  The occult battle between God's revealed Truth, embodied in Christ, and secret doctrines that support the worship of the Serpent: Lucifer, the Devil who poses as an Angel of Light, has been carrying on since the beginning of time.  \\"Gnosticism\\" comes from the Greek \\"gnosis\\" which means knoweldge (important because this \\"knowledge/gnosis\\" is opposed to Faith in a theological sense).  Gnosticism finds its origins in the texts of various heretical psuedo-Christian groups that mixed un-Orthodox notions of Christ with Eastern, Egyptian and Hellenic philosophy and the Jewish Cabala.  The central theme is that the God of the Old Testament, Yahweh, is a demon, and that Lucifer the Serpent taught Adam and Eve true spiritual knowledge and therefore incurred the wrath of Yahweh.  Christ, according to Gnosticism, came to free man from the laws and doctrines imposed by Yahweh so that man can attain a higher spiritual consciousness without traditional doctrines and rituals.  Since Yahweh's creation is regarded as evil and imperfect, it is the duty of men to change the world and the natural order of things to fit his own sovreign will.  This is particularly evident in the realm of sexuality and the way God's gender is viewed.  \\"Gnostic Gnotions\\" of the Mother Goddess, an impersonal androgynous diety and sexual fusion into an unconscious \\"one\\" give the catalyst for women's liberation, feminism, homosexual rights instead of the normative heterosexual family structure.  Gnosticism is not dead, but has simply resurfaced in various forms throughout history, covertly aided by groups with their own agenda.  If there is a link between the New Age, witchcraft, paganism, Nazism, Communism, Zionism, anti-Christianity in all its forms, then it is the Gnostic heresy.  The only problem with Jones' _Gnostic Empire_ is that it is far too short and fails to provide a bibliography where similar information on this topic can be acessed.	2003-08-05
US	35854103	R1DYW3MN4SUFYM	0966963903	379148950	Sex-Ploytation	Books	2	12	25	N	N	Humorous, anecdotal evidence to support title thesis.	When I first saw the title of _Sex-Ploitation: How Women Use Their Bodies to Exthort Money From Men_, the first thought that popped into my mind was \\"what possible agenda can this book have?\\"  The thesis, argued with a vulgar, ignorant, adolescent and openly misogynist tone, is that women market their bodies toward the general male sexual drive for cold-blooded material gain.  While this is certainly true of some women, it is definitely NOT true of all women (in fact, most women).  The assessment in question focuses on women (I'm guessing the upscale Yuppie type) who hang out in bars, and the types of females that the author has personally associated himself with, as reading between the lines in this book reveals that not all social classes and their mating behavior is represented in this book.  _Sex-Ploitation\\" is in the same tradition as the author of the Book of Sirach who considered the greatest evil to be that of women, or feminists themselves who write about the supposed evils of the oppressive male \\"patriarchy.\\"  Some of the author's takes of the ways males and females view mating is accurate, but his notion of females doing what they do consciously is ridiculous, especially since he recognizes males' libido as unconscious.  The book also polemicizes in a lust-filled, totally spiritless void.  _Sex-Ploitation_ is another book in the vein of free-love literature, albeit written from a more radical perspective, less politically-correct.  A reader may find this book funny (if not read too seriously) since it contains all kinds of ancecdotes, statements and \\"overheard conversations\\" about stereotypical behavior as evidence.	2003-07-25
US	35854103	R1I6OPI35MU705	0713727632	168014525	Sex & the Paranormal	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Tounge in cheek analysis of some bizarre experiences	In Dr. Paul Chambers' introduction to _Sex and the Paranormal_ he mentions that the results of the combination of sexuality and the paranormal are sure to be truly bizarre.  Chambers' does not disappoint the reader when he makes this claim.  _Sex and the Paranormal_ tries, almost with a straight face, to examine some of the most uncanny phenomena imaginable.  Reports of ghost rape or Old Hag attacks are common throughout the world and can be explained as a form of sleep paralysis.  A good deal of attention is paid to the notorious and eccentric witch-hunter's manual, _Malleus Malefecarum_, a book which in fact was in accordance with the worldview of the day and not completely the misogynist rantings of two zealous Dominican priests.  The history of the demons known as Incubi and Succubi, which would sexually molest either men or women, is traced.  The Lilith is another sexually ravenous demon who originated in Cabalistic myths centered on Adam's rebellious hypothetical wife before God created Eve.  In the ancient world at temples and sacred spots, different cultures worshipped the creative powers of nature, in particular the image of the phallus, which is alluded to in the Bible.  Temples, including Solomon's own (according to the Bible after the king's apostasy) frequently employed prostitutes who the ancients believed could help men be in touch with the gods.  During the Middle Ages, the Christian Church conducted witch-hunts in fear of the lewd sexual practices of witches and sorcerors, which included nocturnal orgies, the Black Mass and copulation with the Devil.  Chambers posists the popular theory that the witch scare was the result of subconscious fears of female sexuality, exacerbated by the ultra-conservative Christian views of morality and religion at the time.  Poltergeists, the proverbial \\"things that go bump in the night,\\" are possibly the result of sexual anxiety or tension.  The second half of the book takes an even more distrubing turn when it discusses Satanic ritual abuse.  There is little or no physical evidence for this phenomena, or that of penis-snatching by mysterious beings in Asia and Africa, multiple personality disorder or alien abductions in which people either have love affairs with extraterrestrials or are medically examined and sexually abused by them.  These are found to be interrelated as these happenings are connected by similar geographic area, culture and the people that experience them already have a predisposition toward the paranormal.  Testimonies of Satanic ritual abuse and alien abduction could be the products of religious culture, and suggestability of patients under hypnosis and mass hysteria (similar to the girls who would scream and cheer when they saw the Beatles, as the author notes).  Even Shunamitism (derived from a Biblical story about King David in his old age) is mentioned--the notion that an elderly man sleeping next to a virgin but without intercourse would be healthful--is in here.  However, the most bizarre story in here is about Smurfs (yes, the little blue cartoon characters).  In Houston Texas, 1983, there were rumors of Smurfs in junior high schools carrying weapons and threatening students.  There were even rumors of principals being killed persisting after it was well evident that they were alive.  This case indicates the extent of how no matter how unreasonable an idea is can spread and be held onto depending on the right circumstances.  The outlook of _Sex and the Paranormal_ suffers, I feel, from too-much of a secular outlook, especially in the treatment of the more Christian-orientated subjects.  In the end Dr. Chambers praises the Fortean tradition as going outside of the scientific box when it attempts to amass as much knoweldge as possible about the most outlandish incidents and ideas, and tries to make sense of them.ses Satanic ritual abuse.  There is little or no physical evidence for this phenomena, or that of penis-snatching by mysterious beings in Asia and Africa, multiple personality disorder or alien abductions in which people either have love affairs with extraterrestrials or are medically examined and sexually abused by them.  These are found to be interrelated as these happenings are connected by similar geographic area, culture and the people that experience them already have a predisposition toward the paranormal.  Testimonies of Satanic ritual abuse and alien abduction could be the products of religious culture, and suggestability of patients under hypnosis and mass hysteria (similar to the girls who would scream and cheer when they saw the Beatles, as the author notes).  Even Shunamitism (derived from a Biblical story about King David in his old age) is mentioned--the notion that an elderly man sleeping next to a virgin but without intercourse would be healthful--is in here.  However, the most bizarre story in here is about Smurfs (yes, the little blue cartoon characters).  In Houston Texas, 1983, there were rumors of Smurfs in junior high schools carrying weapons and threatening students.  There were even rumors of principals being killed persisting after it was well evident that they were alive.  This case indicates the extent of how no matter how unreasonable an idea is can spread and be held onto depending on the right circumstances.  The outlook of _Sex and the Paranormal_ suffers, I feel, from too-much of a secular outlook, especially in the treatment of the more Christian-orientated subjects.  In the end Dr. Chambers praises the Fortean tradition as going outside of the scientific box when it attempts to amass as much knoweldge as possible about the most outlandish incidents and ideas, and tries to make sense of them.	2003-07-24
US	35854103	R2WXCEZ344NTB9	0962271330	653962265	Becoming Orthodox: A Journey to the Ancient Christian Faith	Books	5	84	91	N	N	Story of a mass conversion of evangelicals to Orthodoxy	_Becoming Orthodox_ by Peter Gillquist is a first-person account of the spiritual journey of a group of evangelical Christians over a period of fifteen years to their reception into the Antiochian Orthodox Church.  Many of them had been involved in Campus Crusade for Christ during the sixties and had remained in contact with each other during the seventies as they founded churches around the US.  They agreed to study Church history to find out what the original New Testament Churches practiced.  They noted from early Christian documents such as the writings of the Church Fathers that the Church had Bishops (ordained by the Apostles themselves), a hierarchial structure, Tradition, liturgical worship, communion as the literal Body and Blood of Christ, inscense, icons, the use of &quot;Father&quot; in addressing Priests, the veneration of the Virgin Mary as Theotokos (&quot;God-bearer&quot;) and the Sign of the Cross.  In examining the Schism of the Church in 1054 between Rome and the East, Gillquist and his fellow pastors acknowledged that Rome had erred in its Papal claims of universal authority over the Church, and the Western alteration of the Creed which originally stated that the Holy Spirit only proceeded from the Father, when now the Roman Catholic Church teaches that the Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son (known as the &quot;Filioque&quot;).  Gillquist and his affiliated group of churches, which they had labeled the Evangelical Orthodox Church, sought to join one of the Orthodox Churches in America.  They were unsuccessful in meeting with the Patriarch of Constantinople, but they were reviewed and accepted by the Patriarch of Antioch and the Antiochian Archdiocese in North America.  The style of this book is remarkably easy and engaging, especially when it comes to the discussion of the &quot;Filioque&quot; in the Creed, and appears to be quite popular among both Orthodox and non-Orthodox readers, which is one of this book's strengths.	2003-07-22
US	35854103	R1O5B9MLVCYNV1	0934666253	604483836	The Book of Jasher: Referred to in Joshua & Second Samuel	Books	3	13	18	N	N	The Book of Jasher--a little questionable.	There are two completely different versions of the &quot;Book of Jasher,&quot; and several editions currently on the market.  The edition that I am reviewing is published by Artisan Sales, has no author or editor listed, and is a bright orange paperback with &quot;Book of Jasher--1840&quot; on the spine.  The Book of Jasher, from the Hebrew Sefer Yashar, literally means &quot;the Complete and Upright Record&quot; or &quot;Book of the Righetous.&quot;  Jasher is mentioned twice in the Old Testament, in the books of Joshua and Samuel, and in that context it would appear as a text that supplements parts of the Old Testament in more detail than in the Bible.  This &quot;Jasher&quot; here is described as being an English translation from a Hebrew document discovered in the earlier half of the 19th century.  The Jasher described in the Bible was most likely a real text that was lost to memory and never preserved in the annals of ancient Israel, but there is a strong possibility that this book is a forgery.  &quot;Jasher&quot; supplements the Biblical texts of the Pentateuch and Joshua, but its additions are for the most part bizarre and quaint exaggerations on the stories of various Biblical episodes, with an emphasis on increased violence and wars.  Overall, though, the teaching and outlook towards God is in the same vein as the Old Testament itself.  The legends in &quot;Jasher&quot; are inspired by various Rabbinical texts and commentaries on Scripture narratives, such as the curious extra-Biblical accounts of the patriarchs contained in the Midrash.  Curiously, this edition of &quot;Jasher&quot; is published by a Christian Identity think-tank (Artisan) and appears in various Identity catalouges.  The Hebrew patriarchs are portrayed as a mighty super-human warrior race , similar to Hercules and the gods of pagan mythology, which may explain &quot;Jasher's&quot; appeal in that theological camp.  &quot;Jasher&quot; may not a true revelation of God, but it makes a droll read for anyone interested in esoteric aspects of religion.	2003-07-21
US	35854103	RVLSR5376EV7H	0966805631	981415468	Hope of the Wicked	Books	4	20	20	N	N	"Toto, we're not in Kansas anymore...."	_Hope of the Wicked: The Master Plan to Rule the World_ by Ted Flynn, which he describes as NOT being a \\"walk in the park on a spring day,\\" asks the question: is there or is there not a conspiracy to take over the world?  The answer is an unhesitating YES, and it is rooted in the idealogy of Freemasonry, ratioalism, communism, secular humanism, the occult, and the New Age.  The groups that have been involved in this conspiracy over the centuries include the Masons, Illuminati, Theosophists, CFR, Trilateral Commission, Bilderburgers, Round Table Groups, and Skull and Bones.  Much of Flynn's information is based on Carol Quigley's _Tragedy and Hope_, along with a host of other eclectic material to support his thesis.  The notorious _Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion_ with its description of a Jewish conspiracy is absent.  His viewpoints are loosely Catholic, but most of _Hope of the Wicked_ is free from theology and instead concentrates on the machinations of groups consolidating their hold on society.  Secret societies have an occult, Satanic agenda to impose a New World Order over the entire planet in opposition to Christianity, traditional religion in general and nationalism.  There have been conspiracies to start wars to manipulate favorable political change; centralized banking to control the flow of currency, taxes and funds, embodied in the creation of the Federal Reserve at a summit on Jekyl Island; the globalization of the world's corperations and industries; the monopolies on entertainment and news media; loss of privacy through increased government and corperate surveillance; \\"data mining\\" of personal information; the Executive Orders which allow the President dictatorial powers in event of a national \\"emergency\\"; the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) which would implement the executive orders; the creaton of a UN global army, etc.  The most interesting chapter in _Hope of the Wicked_ is \\"Angels and Weather Modification,\\" which discusses HAARP and its potential for weather and mind control, along with the wild technology of Nikola Tesla.  The book ends with an epilogue warning of God's vengeance against a humanity that has forsaken Him and followed its own rebellious path.  Some of the problems that I found while reading _Hope of the Wicked_ was its length and redundancy.  It also misinterprets the use of birth control, which can be either socially helpful or harmful depending on how it is employed.	2003-07-18
US	35854103	R29XYQWSC2Y93K	0814731112	744146084	Hitler's Priestess: Savitri Devi, the Hindu-Aryan Myth, and Neo-Nazism	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Savitri Devi: Hindu Nationalism and Esoteric Hitlerism	_Savitri Devi_ by Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke is an extremely bizarre read on one of the more mystical figures in the neo-Nazi movement.  Devi was born Maximiani Portas of Greek and English heritage in the south of France, and earned a Ph.D. in mathematics.  She grew up feeling disillusioned with Western liberalism, and set out to India in the 1920's to study India's caste system as an example of racial segregation and the Hindu scriptures, in particular the Vedas and the Bhagavad Gita, which she considered the most ancient examples of Aryan wisdom.  She found India, the world's last Aryan pagan nation, to be a place poor but with an unbroken spirit, especially among the high caste Brahmins.  She also viewed it as being under cultural assault by British colonization and its growing Muslim population.  She joined the ant-British, anti-Muslim Hindu Mission (to spread Hinduism) and the Hindu Nationalist movement in India (groups which were to the right of Gandhi and favored militancy) which was under the leadership of V. D. Savarkar.  Devi married a Brahmin, Asit Krishna Mukherji, who was well traveled in Europe and published a racialist and pro-Nazi magazine under the auspices of the German Consulate in India.  Following the defeat of Germany in WWII, Devi went on three Nazi propaganda missions in Germany and even spent time in prison for subversive activities.  During this time and the 1950s and 60s, Devi made contact with well known British and American neo-Nazis, among whom were George Lincoln Rockwell, Colin Jordan and John Tyndall.  She also became aquainted with ex-Nazis such as the ace Hans Ulrich-Rudel and Leon Degrelle and others who had fled Germany and set up a networks in Spain, Latin America and the Middle East.  She returned to India in 1971 and corresponded with Holocaust revisionist Ernst Zundel and the South American Nazi occultist Miguel Serrano.  Devi published a number of books popular among the far-right and and also far-left environmentalist groups:_The Impeachment of Man_ (an argument for animal rights against a human-centered outlook), _A Warning to the Hindus_ (some of the aims of the Hindu Nationalist movement), _Pilgrimage_ (her reflections on her visit to post-WWII Germany), _Son of the Son_ (a study of Akhnaton who initiated the solar cult in Egypt, which Devi considered to be a forerunner of Nazism), and _The Lightning and the Sun_.  _The Lightning and the Sun_ is Devi's most notorious book, in which she argues that Hitler is an incarnation of the god Vishnu the <BR>Preserver, a \\"Man Against Time\\" who intervened and fought against the process of decay in today's modern world, which is known as the Kali Yuga of the Hindus.  Thus Savitri Devi managed to provide a theological justification for outright Hitler-worship in the context of an Aryan/pagan revival.  Altogether, this is an even-handed book on a highly controversial and eccentric woman.	2003-07-18
US	35854103	R1FSR877WG3EIW	0140146563	270035970	The Orthodox Church: New Edition	Books	5	6	10	N	N	History of the Orthodox Church	_The Orthodox Church_ by Timothy/KALLISTOS Ware is a history of the Orthodox Church first published in 1963.  The first part of the book traces the Church's history from the First Ecumenical Council under the Emperor Constantine until the recent Communist regime in Russia and the ecumenical movement in which Orthodox churches have participated in.  The main focus is on the Russian and Greek churches, and the account of the Russian Orthodox Church under Communism was particularly disturbing.  The story of how the three Romes rose and fell was truly great: Rome fell apart and was overrun by barbarians, and Constantinople was ordained the new capital of the Roman Empire by Constantine, and Christianity became the official religion of the Empire.  Constantinople in turn was taken by the Turks in the 1400s and became incoperated in the Ottoman Empire, which was officially Muslim but protected Christians.  The Slavs and other peoples of Eastern Europe in the meantime were Christians at this time, and Moscow, the capital of Russia became the new &quot;Rome&quot; with the Grand Duke adopting the title &quot;Czar&quot; or &quot;Caesar&quot; in Russian.  The second part of _The Orthodox Church_ outlines the doctrines, worship and positions of Orthodoxy and compares both their similarity and differences to Western Catholicism and Protestantism.  The only shortcoming of this book was that it did not discuss the Nestorians and Mononphysites enough, as these ancient Christian sects broke off from the Church before the East-West schism of 1054 and remain very similar to Orthodoxy.	2003-07-14
US	35854103	R7FNH8GJRBC3T	0898704472	617812769	Degenerate Moderns: Modernity As Rationalized Sexual Misbehavior	Books	4	18	26	N	N	Modernism as Rationalized Sexual Misbehavior?	I would agree that \\"Modernism is rationalized sexual misbehavior\\" as Michael Jones contends in the title of this book.  This label is, of course, one of about fifty others that could also be used to describe modernity in general however.  _Degenerate Moderns_ is an odd mixture of cultural critique, Catholic sectarianism, sexual puritainism and a loosely implied conspiracy theory regarding coverups of the personal lives of the Saints of the Modern World.  The book examines the personal lives of Margaret Mead, Alfred Kinsey, Pablo Picasso, Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung and Martin Luther (among others) and attempts to make connections between their immoral sexual activities and the ideas they expounded as being rationalizations of their misbehavior instead of repenting of their sins.  That's basically the main point of the book, and overall _Degenerate Moderns_ is a bit incoherent as the author assumes too much of the reader by giving a stream of examples without explaining the context of his argument adequately.  _Degenerate Moderns_ asks the question: \\"Was Martin Luther really a great reformer? or was he just wanting to [insert your thoughts here] with the nuns?\\"  This book is very novel, even if some of its arguments and reasoning are a bit underdeveloped and extremist.  The best part of _Degenerate Moderns_ discusses the rumor that the Kinsey Institute has the world's largest collection of pornography \\"except for the Vatican.\\"  This myth is in fact false: a friend of Kinsey's made the statement as an offbeat comment to describe Kinsey's collection of pornography, and Kinsey went on to repeat this when he did speeches and presentations about his institute.	2003-07-14
US	35854103	R3W591ESXAAU6O	0718000307	432215923	The Orthodox Study Bible: New Testament and Psalms	Books	5	41	44	N	N	The best there is for now...	_The Orthodox Study Bible: New Testament and Psalms_ is the only Eastern Orthodox study Bible available.  This edition only contains the New Testament and the Psalms of the New King James translation.  The text is commentated upon by notes giving the Orthodox teaching on Scripture.  Currently, scholars at St. Athanasius Seminary are at work translating the entire Bible from the Septuagint, and will include the entire canonical Old Testament, including the Deutero-Canonical books (or as known to Protestants, the &quot;Apocrypha&quot;) that are in the Greek Septuagint but not the Hebrew Bible.  This edition contains information on how the Bible is viewed in the Orthodox Church, an outline of Orthodox history, tips on how the Bible is to be studied, a glossary of Orthodox Terms, a list of the Seventy, the lectionary and Orthodox prayers.  The Canon of Scripture was decided AFTER the Ecumenical Council of Nicea, in which the Nicean Creed was drawn up as the statement of Orthodoxy, thus the Scripture is given its authority by the Church, and Scripture forms the centerpiece of the Church's Tradition dating from Christ and His Apostles.  As another reviewer noted, this edition is a &quot;who's who&quot; of Orthodoxy, including Peter E. Gilquist, Jack Norman Sparks, Archbishop JAKOVOS, Bishop KALLISTOS, Bishop MAXIMOS and Fr. Anthondy Coniaris.	2003-07-05
US	35854103	RGM0N9BXSULEY	019528335X	285263373	The New Oxford Annotated Bible with the Apocrypha, Revised Standard Version, Expanded Edition (Genuine Leather Black 8914A)	Books	4	43	47	N	N	Contains the Entire Canon of the Septuagint.	_The New Oxford Annotated Bible With the Apocrypha_ is the most complete canon of scripture currently availible.  It includes the entire text of the Greek Septuagint, the version of the Old Testament quoted in the New Testament by the Evangelists, the Apostles and St. Paul of Tarsus.  The Messianic passages in the origninal Hebrew texts became more intense with the translation of the Scriptures from Hebrew to the Greek circa 200 BC.  Tradition holds that the Septuagint, known as the Book of Seventy, was translated from Hebrew to Greek by 70 elders in Alexandria over a period of 70 days.  A somewhat obscure conflict in the history of the church has arised over the number of books contained in the Bible, and the Catholic, Orthodox and Protestant Old Testaments list different numbers of books as being canonical, or of Divine Inspiration.  Martin Luther only accepted the books originally in Hebrew, which excluded ten &quot;Apocryphal&quot; books in the Roman Catholic Canon and which were known to the Catholics and Orthodox as &quot;deutero-canonical&quot; i.e. later added to the Canon and being of equal value to the Hebrew Scriptures.  In many Bibles translated into English, such as the King James the Apocrypha was included, but in 1825 they were removed from publication along with the rest of the Bible. In this Bible, the RSV, the entire text of the Septuagint, including Luther's so called &quot;Apocryphal&quot; (&quot;hidden&quot;) books is here tranlated.  Some books in the Septuagint never made it into the Western Latin Translation of the Vulgate, such III and IV Maccabees and Psalm 151.  The names of the &quot;Apocryphal&quot; books are these: I and II Esdras, Tobit, Judith, Additions to the Book of Esther, Wisdom of Solomon, Wisdom of Jesus the Son of Sirach (aka Ecclesiasticus or &quot;Church Book&quot;), Baruch, Letter of Jeremiah, Prayer of Azariah and the Song of the Three Young Men, Susanna, Bel and the Dragon, Prayer of Manasseh, I, II, III and IV Maccabeesand Psalm 151.  The RSV translation is better than the NRSV (New Revised Standard Version) because of the NRSV's use of fabricated gender-inlcusive language and non-traditional renderings of the text.  The RSV has the same problem, most notably in the controversy in the translation of Isiah 7:14 from Hebrew where the Hebrew reads &quot;young woman&quot; while the Greek reads &quot;virgin&quot; (the KJV followed the Greek translation).  However the RSV is an older and more conservative translation.  The notes accompanying the text may be good for historical context and ancient culture, but they offer little spiritual wealth, merely reflecting the PC views of modern academia.  But the RSV's strength in this translation and this edition lies in that it is the only Bible given approval between the Orthodox, Catholic and mainline Protestant Churches.	2003-07-03
US	35854103	R3J8T0BGA1A6NZ	1880364123	49878849	The Way of a Pilgrim and the Pilgrim Continues His Way	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Way of a Pilgrim.	_The Way of a Pilgrim_ was first published in Russia in 1884 of unknown authorship.  It is a first person narrative of the mystical reflections of a wandering peasant in mid-19th century Tsarist Russia.  The authorship is unknown, although it is probably a confession from a peasant that was recorded and then later embellished with complex theological arguements by other parties.  The peasant practices the Prayer of the Heart, the Prayer of Jesus, which is &quot;Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner.&quot;  The Jesus Prayer is the entire gospel in summation, as the peasant tells a soldier who would read an entire Gospel everyday.  The Prayer is repeated and repeated continuously without being distracted by other thoughts until the feeling of the divine is reached.  This was practiced by the Hesychasts and had previously caused a debate within the Orthodox Church concerning its validity.  A church council decided in favor of the Hesychasts, and the standard textbook for the Jesus Prayer is a volume of compiled teachings of the Church Fathers known as the _Philokalia_, or &quot;Love of the Beautiful.&quot;  The characters in _The Pilgrim Continues His Way_ engage in a discussion of the Jesus Prayer, examining the different arguments for and against it.  The book has a foreward from a Benedictine Monk who discovered the Jesus Prayer and looked for a spiritual elder (known as a starets in Russian tradition) to teach him how to practice it.  The basic message of _The Way of a Pilgrim_ is that spiritual enlightenment is available to all who search for it.	2003-07-01
US	35854103	R334VA2RCZ2VYH	0938635891	857459722	Youth of the Apocalypse: And the Last True Rebellion	Books	5	14	16	N	N	"Virtual Manifesto of the Eleventh Hour"	_Youth of the Apocalypse_ is a self described \\"virtual manifesto for childred of the eleventh hour\\" covering suicide, insanity, drugs, violence, art, the occult, the apocalypse and the life and death of Christ.  It is a very brief synthesis of modern trends written by two Orthodox monks.  The cover features an uncanny picture of a monk (on Mt. Athos) standing by a heap of dead monks' skulls.  The monk is carrying a chest and a picture of a skull is conspicuously superimposed in the chest.  The book is divided into three main sections: \\"Our Origin,\\" \\"Our Death\\" and \\"Our Ressurection.\\"  \\"Our Origin\\" describes anti-Christianity: from Marx, Darwin, Lenin, Stalin, the post WWII \\"beats,\\" sixties' radicalism, the Beatles and Generation X.  The Beatles' statement \\"we're bigger than Jesus Christ\\" reflects the spirit of the times.  \\"Our Death\\" is about our nihilistic religious insanity: the Divine is abandoned and the flesh is turned to instead.  Sex, drugs, violence and the occult are turned to to give life some meaning.  These herald the \\"New World Order,\\" or rule of the Antichrist.  \\"Our Ressurection\\" goes into Orthodox doctrine, and stories of saints' lives.  Orthodoxy remains the otherworldly ideal as opposed to the modern world.  The saints covered are Monk Anthony of Egypt, Eudokia, Monk Moses the Ethiopian, Xenia the Homeless Wanderer, Monk Paisius, Monk Herman, Elder Michael, New Martyrs Hierotheus and Seraphim, Priest-Monk Gabriel, Archbishop John, Monk Seraphim Rose and Priest-Monk Nestor.	2003-06-20
US	35854103	R1KDO11V1PAOZG	0685060942	916553117	The Philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche	Books	3	16	31	N	N	Nietzsche and  Mencken: "Let the Harshness Commence!"	_Friedrich Nietzsche_ by noted early 20th century American journalist H. L. Mencken is a both a brief biography of Nietzsche as well as a basic outline of his philosophy.  Nietzshe's biggest influence is easlily recognized as his predescessor in German pessimism, Schopenhauer, along with the ancient Greeks before Socrates.  Nietzsche is criticized as being only a destructive force in his philosophy, merely tearing down the decadent Christian morality that reigned in the West during the 1800s.  However, Nietzsche's ultimate goal was the \\"superman,\\" men who were above morality, sentimentality, religion and the \\"mindless grazing herd of cows\\" that constituted most of humanity.  Much of this book attacks Christianity, which Nietzsche abbhorred above all other things, and considered it a \\"slave-morality\\" derived from the Jews as opposed to the \\"master-morality\\" of the European aristocrats.  The origin of morality, according to Nietzsche and derived from Schopenhauer, comes from a race's will to live, and this manifests itself in a the law codes, usually of divine origin, of any given tribe, ethnicity, social group, civilization, race or nation.  Nietzsche differed from Schopenhauer in that he felt that a heroic life was the best life to lead, instead of giving up the will to live as Schopenhauer taught.  Both Nietzsche and Schopenhauer rejected trying to live a \\"happy\\" life, realizing that true happiness is unnatainable.  In some respects, Nietzsche is reminiscent of the religious prophets he hated so much--he does not believe in free will, that people are more or less determined in their ways by forces that are beyond individual control, but he still exhorts them to dust themselves off and better themselves anyway.  As far as his views of marraige and women are concerned, they are very pessimistic yet grounded in reality.  \\"Love\\" comes from physical desire, and marriage is the official sanctioning of it.  The ultimate purpose of marraige should be to breed a better raceof humans to attain the \\"superman\\" in the future.  There are some areas where Nietzsche's thoughts went a little fantastic.  One theory he propounded was that Christianity was created by the Jews to make the rest of the ancient world a \\"slave morality\\".  This is ridiculous, as Mencken notes, however some Jewish scholars today like to credit their own people with Christianity's rise at the same time voicing their disgust towards Christianity itself.  But Nietzsche predicted that in the future Jews would be the ones that would virtually rule the world and have the greatest amount of influence in the intellectual fields.  Another of Nietzsche's offbeat ideas is the doctrine of \\"eternal reccurance,\\" that time repeats itself in cycles from eternity to eternity and gives the heroic \\"superman\\" the same struggle (in which the superman glories in) forever.  As far as Nietzsche's influece goes today in 21st century America: I would only conclude that it is partial.  It is readily apparent from reading Menckens exgesis where Nietzsche influenced Nazism, libertarians, nihilists, right-wing anarchists, \\"Ayn Rand style\\" objectivism and Satanism.  Nothing exists for racial improvement, eugenics or euthanasia that is propelling humanity upward.  The racial policies and ideals in ascendancy today are extremely dysgenic instead.  Some of Nietzsche's ideas which are more readily observabable are the rule by an elite that is above the law--an \\"Illuminati\\" of sorts--but it is not bringing the human race upward--it is sending it crashing down to hell.  I do not personally agree with many of Nietzsche's ideas, especially his attack on Christianity, but this is a thought provoking book of the \\"mad prophet of Nihilism.\\"	2003-06-14
US	35854103	RUWIUA974PESN	0618260250	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lord of the Rings: Traditionalist Myth of the 20th Century.	_The Lord of the Rings_ is the most popular work of fiction of the 20th century with millions of devoted fans the world over.  The book was inspired by Tolkien's personal ultra-conservative Catholic faith and his study of Nordic myths and languages.  One of Tolkien's favorites was of course Beowulf.  There is little modernity in LOTR, and the Hobbits who live simply off the land in their small pastoral countryside are given the center stage.  The great wizards, wise elves, and warriors don't accomplish the task of destroying the Ring of Doom, they instead play a supporting role--the ultimate cause of victory remains an unknown force that plays its hand in the courses of the world, aiding individual effort.  Tolkien borrowed something from the ancient Atlantis and Golden Age myths in the plot of his story.  The men of \\"Numenor\\" were a semi-divine race that came from the West across the sea and set up kingdoms where they ruled over men of lesser stock.  Eventually they declined after their will to life had been sapped from internal decay, stagnation, and violent conquests from outside demonic forces.  _Lord of the Rings_ is the story of their recovery and regaining of the their lost king, who reunites their kindoms and establishes his rule on Middle Earth after the Dark Lord is vanquished.  The political outlook of the book is similar to the feudalistic Middle Ages and Sparta rather from modern day liberalism, democracy, fascism, communism or other forms of rule \\"by the masses.\\"  The rulers have a higher-than-human origin, but at the same time they are not despots or pillagers.  Evil is portrayed as the total corruption of what is natural and free-flowing, such as the destruction of forests, industrialized machinery, agricultural decline, and mindless bloodthirsty soldiers who fight among themselves but obey their demonic masters' every whim.  The book concludes, not with the destrution of the Ring, but with the Hobbits' fight to liberate their homeland, which had run itself well independently until one Hobbit began trading with the evil wizard Saruman and the Shire was taken over by gangs of thugs.  The book is almost an unconscious indictment of what government control, greedy capitalism and communism alike has done to the planet over the past 200 years: cultural decline, rootlessness, and environmental degradation.  Possibly the reason this book has been so popular is because LOTR portrays an idealistic world with settings and characters so radically different in their lives and worldviews from our own.  The protagonists are not self-serving hedonists rebelling for no reason, but rather individuals who are concerned with maintaining their traditions, old ways of life, and are in touch with a transcendant mission above and beyond themselves.itself well independently until one Hobbit began trading with the evil wizard Saruman and the Shire was taken over by gangs of thugs.  The book is almost an unconscious indictment of what government control, greedy capitalism and communism alike has done to the planet over the past 200 years: cultural decline, rootlessness, and environmental degradation.  Possibly the reason this book has been so popular is because LOTR portrays an idealistic world with settings and characters so radically different in their lives and worldviews from our own.  The protagonists are not self-serving hedonists rebelling for no reason, but rather individuals who are concerned with maintaining their traditions, old ways of life, and are in touch with a transcendant mission above and beyond themselves.	2003-06-13
US	35854103	R33SYSBAYOELZ6	0875523897	781490735	Postmillennialism: An Eschatology of Hope	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Postmillennialism as a Positive Eschatology.	POSTMILLENNIALISM: AN ESCHATOLOGY OF HOPE, published by a conservative Presbyterian group, advances a little known and radical thesis regarding the time of Christ's second coming. Postmillennialism teaches that Jesus will return AFTER the Christian Church has managed to convert the entire world to Christianity, and then the end will come. This eschatological theory is popular with conservative Calvinists and some Pentecostals. The book explains that man, redeemed in Christ, has the duty to live a Christian life on earth, and the \\"the millennium\\" mentioned in the Apocalypse/Book of Revelation is in fact already here, and it was inagurated at Christ's ascension into heaven (the Millennium is taken as a figurative, rather than literal concept). Postmillennialism is not to be confused with the two other views of the Second Coming: premillennialism/dispensationalism and amillennialism. Premillennialism is the belief that the Church will be raptured sometime into heaven before the rise of the anti-christ and the seven year tribulation. The millennium is after the second coming when Christ sets up an earthly kingdom before the final destrution of evil a thousand years later. Amillennialism teaches that there is no millennium, that Christ will return at an unknown point, with no rapture of the Church or literal thousand-year Messianic kingdom.<br />Postmillennialism bases its theories on the method of Biblical exgesis known as \\"covenant theology.\\" Humanity's redemption is centered on the covenants God made with various figures throughout the Biblical narrative. Man in Eden was given the covenant of work to tend the Garden, Adam after the Fall recieved one of grace, Noah, Abraham, Moses David, and the New Covenant. In theory, all of these covenants are one, as opposed to dispensationalism, which teaches two different salvation plans for Christians and Jews.<br />POSTMILLENNIALISM also touches on the history of eschatology in the history of the Church, as taught by the ChurchFathers and the creeds. They are a little vague, but the author takes them to mean that Christ will return when Christianity becomes the dominant religion all over the world. To justify further, a Biblical exgesis is presented, with emphasis on Revelation. Revelation is interpreted using the preterist theory--that it is a symbolic description of the destruction of Jerusalem at the hands of the Romans in AD 70. The great tribulation that Jesus refers to at the end of the Gospel of Matthew is the coming war in Judea, in which the Christians would flee Jerusalem before it was destroyed and thus escape slaughter (\\"the rapture\\"). The antichrist is the Roman Emperor Nero, whose name in Greek added up to 666, and was a notorious persecutor of Christians, possibly at the behest of his Jewish mistress, Poppea.<br />Overall, this is an interesting presentation of a dissident view of eschatology, differing from most Protestant, Catholic and Orthodox Christians. It impossible to tell whether the Church could ever be as powerful or as successful as the postmillennialist theorists posist, as traditional Christianity is on the decline in Western countries, but may rise in non-Western ones.	2003-06-08
US	35854103	RZR36M7FLEHTN	0892812516	995944401	The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies--Their Influence and Power in World History	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Strange Trip Through Religion and Politics.	THE OCCULT CONSPIRACY by Michael Howard starts off with the misunderstood revelation that occultism is not always practiced by fringe individuals but is well established in the echelons of the world's ruling elite.  The sources that Howard used in compiling this book are a who's who of popular arcane researchers and conspiracy theorists among which are Nesta Webster's \\"Secret Societies\\", Clark's \\"Occult Roots of Nazism\\", the theory of Christ's bloodline--\\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\", and books by New Age philosopher Manly P. Hall.<br />The viewpoint of this book is rather vague, and is not easy to pick up right away.  There is an apparent conflict between traditional religion, especially Christianity and its largest sect, Catholicism, and secret, esoteric teachings as propounded by different groups linked together through the millenia with similar beliefs and objectives: Gnosticism, Manicheanism, Knights Templar, Rosicrucians, Freemasons, the Illuminati and radical leftism in the 1800s and 1900s.  These secret societies have different doctrines, but they are all opposed to traditional Christianity, especially in their endorsement of a universal religion, one world government, the \\"feminine principle\\" of God, and the abolition of traditional religious, cultural and ethnic ties.  \\"Liberty, Equality and Fraternity\\" is their catchphrase.  The great events of the past 250 years have their roots in secret society intrigue and have adopted occult symbolism: the American Revoloution, French Revoloution, rise of the British Empire, German Nationalism, Marxism, Russian Revoloution, Nazism, formation of the UN, New Age movement, 1960's radicalism, and the rise of today's \\"post-Christian\\" society.  All the tumult, it is supposed, is caused by the advent of the Age of Aquarius (supposedly to take place in 2025) which will, in the mind of occultists, usher in a humanist utopia on earth.<br />There are a lot of flaws with this book.  The author fails to give the book any real sort ofcontext, except for its mystical pinko-liberalism.  It rather posists a \\"conspiracy against the vast right-wing conspiracy\\" and claims that the secret society members are crusaders for human freedom against the oppression of Christianity and the old world order.	2003-06-05
US	35854103	R2TNM362Y7G1NK	0938635158	101940939	Nihilism: The Root of the Revolution of the Modern Age	Books	5	13	26	N	N	Nihilism as the Cause of Modern Error.	NIHILISH: ROOT OF THE REVOLOUTION OF THE MODERN AGE was written by Russian Orthodox monk, Eugene Rose, (a convert to Orthodox Christianity) in a San Fransisco basement during the 1960's.  It is a small part of a much larger work that was never brought to fruitition--a text on the theme of man's war against God and His revealed Truth.  The form of Truth discussed here concerns what is eternal, not worldly, what will bring life beyond death.<br />Nihilism's basic credos are \\"all truth is relative,\\" and \\"there is no absoloute truth.\\"  This is in direct opposition to traditional Christian thought, and the two are diametrically opposed.  Friedrich Nietzsche is identified as the prophet of nihilism.  Nihilism, of course, has developed into different stages according to the degenerate process of modern society.  Libralism is a form of nihilism (and I might add, the ascendant political theory in the US right now, either GOP or Democrat) which pretends to be Christian, but only in rhetoric and in its emotional appeals, and which at heart does not care about the truth.  The second, Realism, tries to find the truth and sometimes \\"does,\\" but Realism's truth-seeking automatically rejects Divine Revelation and thus goes off on hopeless philosophical and scientific tangents.  Vitalism is the third form of nihilism, and in my opinion by far the most popular among average people, and the form I personally hate the most.  Vitalism does not teach anything, just what the individual feels, and there is no search for truth, just \\"hot-tub\\" coziness with oneself and the mundane excitements of life.  This is omnipresent in our popular culture and mentality right now: fast cars, violent movies, pseudo-worship of sex, \\"getting high\\", and complete ignorance of any higher spiritual truth or ideals.  The Nihilism of Destruction is the final form, manifested in Nazism, Bolshevism, Marxism, Communism and Anarchism.  They believe in open Satan-worship, and the destrution of anything that is standing in order to pave the way for a \\"new order.\\"  Lenin described it well, as \\"one factory, with one office.\\"  I disagree with Rose's assessment of Nazism, as the Third Reich might have brought a genuine reversal of modernity, and a return to traditional Western ideals.  These nihilists of destrution are condemned by the less hard core (especially the liberals), but they represent rebellion against God taken to its most extreme form, without any false pretenses about \\"the dignity of man,\\" and \\"universal brotherhood.\\"<br />In the end, it is the Christians who are the true Nihilists.  Christians keep their sights one the Etenal, and not the petty concerns of this world which were created by God out of nothing and will return to nothing at the end of time.	2003-06-03
US	35854103	R3LVZOTS9UYK3Z	1892796007	213929315	My Awakening: A Path to Racial Understanding	Books	5	74	104	N	N	"The Most Dangerous Book."	MY AWAKENING by notorious former Klan leader David Duke is a large volume concerning the racial and Jewish questions that are asked from nationalist perspectives, and written in the format of an autobiography.  Concerning some questions regarding Duke's personal life, it is better to just stick to the research he has done in the first two of the thirds of the book.<br />The first third, \\"Race and Reality,\\" details the role of intelligence in shaping social behavior and how intelligence is inherited, at least more so than from environmental factors.  Races differ in intelligence, with blacks and Hispanics lagging behind whites and Asians.  The racial differences are caused by the difference between tropical climates around the Equator, and the northern climates in Europe and Asia.  The races evolved over tens of thousands of years in isolated geographic areas and it has only been in the last five-hundred years in which great inter-continental mobility and immigration has mixed races on continients not of their origin.  This book gives a layman's analysis of scientific data and research on racial differences in intelligence.  Much of this has been surpressed because of the popularity of egalitarian theorists, many of whom were pseudo-Marxists in their idealogy--and egalitarianism is more of an idealogy as opposed to objective fact.  However, as Duke points out, any notion of superiority or inferiority is completely subjective on the part of the person applying the label \\"inferior\\" or \\"superior.\\"  Duke advocates racial seperation, with whites and blacks living in seperate areas so that the white/European genotype will not become assimilated and can remain distinct from other races.<br />The second third of My Awakening is about the perrenial \\"Jewish Question,\\" raised by white nationalists, black separitists, Palestinian militants, occultists, and pan-Third World Islamic fundamentalists alike.  Jews have a greater verbal intelligence than any other race, and this has been shaped from the time of their wanderings in the Middle East and their living as a non-assimilating minority in Europe.  They are naturally adept at communicating and organizing, as well as being self-centered, watching out for their own, while at the same time, covertly or not, working to damage the morals and worldview of their host countries.  The list of specifics is far too long to name, but it follows the tried-and-true reasoning of what far right wing theorists have pointed out about Jews in gentile society for thousands of years.  We've all heard the stories and the stereotypes, but they are true in some areas.<br />Although many will condemn My Awakening as being insane rantings and ravings of a \\"neo-Nazi\\" or \\"bigoted Christian racist,\\" it is well researched and thorough in its presentation of its controversial subject matter.  It is does not fall into the trap of social-darwinist nihilism, which may be \\"racist\\" but denies Christianity and the divinity of Jesus Christ.  It is also not \\"Christian Identity,\\" which holds to the literal truth of the Bible, but does not use the process of natural evoloution as an explanation of humanity's origins.  Duke's book remains Christian and promotes the theory of evoloution.	2003-06-01
US	35854103	R8SI2VP13V7P1	0385113242	564889891	Strange cults (A New library of the supernatural)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Strange Cults: an illustrated school library primer.	STRANGE CULTS is a library book published in 1977, for an audience of high-school students.  This book is an excellent overview of cult activity, covering a wide variety of cultures and time periods, and gives some basic themes as to why people join cults and cult doctrines.  Cults gains followers for three main reasons: they give the member an sense of identity, knowledge that the uninitiated don't have and a sense of power in some form, either spiritual, or over their own bodies.  Cults make their members feel superior to those not in the cult.  <br />There have been cults which have practiced violence for religious purposes.  The most notable one in recent media coverage are the murders perpetrated by the Manson Family.  The pseudo-Muslim Assassins used drug influenced suicide attackers to tear down their political opponents, led by the \\"Old Man in the Mountain\\"--Hasan ibn al-Sabah.  The Thuggee cult (Thugs) in India would garrote their victims and then drain their blood to Kali, Hindu goddess of destruction.  The Ku Klux Klan was an American religious group dedicated to ritual violence against its opponents.<br />One common cult theme focuses on the ideals of sex and marraige, or rather their total rejection of whatever mainstream society's attitudes are about them.  Some cults, such as hippy communes in various ages have practiced free love, encouraging promiscuity among members, and especially with the leader.  Other cults go off the other end, with beliefs regarding sex and lustful desires as the sources of all human suffering.  These cults, such as the Shakers and Hare Krishnas either practice total celibacy or highly regulated married life.<br />Probably the most bizarre chapter in this strange book about strange cults is the one on psuedo-science.  During the 1920s and 30s the Apostolic Church in Zion taught that the earth was flat.  A 19th century American scientist who called himself \\"Koresh\\" (no relation to David Koresh of Waco fame) believed that we are actually living on the inside of the earth and that the solar bodies are actually reflections of light.  \\"Koresh\\" recieved this revelation from a beautiful woman who appeared to him in his laboratory, and he wrote a book entitled, THE ILLUMINATION OF KORESH: MARVELOUS EXPERIENCE OF THE GREAT ALCHEMIST AT UTICA, NY.<br />What made STRANGE CULTS so wierd was that it was somewhat of a picture book, with all kinds of paintings, illustrations and photograhs of some unusual activities.	2003-05-26
US	35854103	R3LSFE97NA2RCR	0060193689	288480034	Rule By Secrecy: The Hidden History that Connects the Trilateral Commision, the Freemasons and the Great Pyramids	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Rule by Secrecy: History of Secret Society Power	RULE BY SECRECY is a somewhat loose synchonization of various conspiracy researchers that makes an attempt to bring the whole Master Plan of the ages to light.  Author Jim Marrs fails in this.  Marrs takes his main themes and ideas from David Icke, Zecharia Sitchin, and the authors of HOLY BLOOD, HOLY GRAIL.  There is a lot of great information, and speculation, as to who actually controls the world and the methods by which they exercise control.  Since RULE BY SECRECY is published by a major company, Harper Collins, and IS in mainstream circulation unlike most other conspiracy books, it functions in its purpose of revealing some pertinient knowledge, but not the real thing.  I recommend reading up to page 360, because after that Marrs goes off \\"the establishment\\" deep end with ancient astronauts and visitors from outer space rather than focusing on the ancient war between revealed truth and esoteric doctrines.<br />Marrs' book traces its history backward, from events as recent as the election 2000 canidates Bush and Gore and the Persian Gulf war in 1991 to ancient Greece and the Middle East.  The histories and formations of many secret societies are given, and especially their interest in starting and manipulating the outcomes of wars to serve their goals.  Marrs goes to great length to avoid being 'anti-Semitic' in his theories, but looking between the lines, Jews are more than proportionately named in this book as being bankers and conspiracy masterminds.  RULE BY SECRECY is far from perfect; it attempts too much in too short of space, but is still a great source of insight on how secret societies covertly exercise control of the world's affairs.	2003-05-25
US	35854103	R2W4KOS24GL2FA	0060696451	751204463	The First Messiah: Investigating the Savior Before Jesus	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Savior before Christ: Judah, Teacher of Righteousness?	THE FIRST MESSIAH provides interesting speculation regarding the Dead Sea Scrolls that were unearthed in 1948.  Many scholars point them out as being the documents of an early Christian community, or possibly the Essenes.  A lot of tension has been raised by those who claim to be reverting back to the originial Christian Church structure, closer in keeping with Jesus' teachings.  Actually, Jesus' message was bastardized from the start, because such concepts as &quot;if you do not have a sword, sell your cloak and buy one,&quot; and the kingdom of heaven being taken by violence, and Christ's admonition to &quot;whosoever will not have me as king over them, drag them forth and slay them before me,&quot; did not come to frutition until the medieval period.<br />The book starts out with a description of various cults and messianic delusions dispersed in world history in many different cultures:  David Koresh, the Millerites (19th century version of today's Christian fundamentalism), Cargo cults, Flagellants, the 1890 Ghost Dance, Sabbatai Sevi, etc.  One common element in these cults is that the world is about to end [violently], and only those who are in some way mystically united to the cult's leader/Christ figure, who will return from the dead after being persecuted, will survive the apocalypse and be united with the Christ-figure in glory.<br />In the case of the Dead Sea texts, especially the Thanksgiving Psalms and the Damascus Document, this apparent messiah is known as &quot;Judah.&quot;  No apparent justification is given to &quot;Judah&quot; being named this, but otherwise the author's speculations are reasonably well based and grounded in original insight into the texts he is analyzing.  Judah was a Sadducee, connected to the Jerusalem Temple and the Priesthood around 150 BC.  At that time, there was much infighting among the Judeans between the Sadducees (the elite Temple Priesthood and their supporters; we see them on TV as 'the GOP'), and the Pharisees (teachers with their own [false] interpretations of the Pentateuch that garnered widespread popular support; i.e.the Democrats).  The Pharisees gained the upper hand, and Judah was brought before them on trial for his un-orthodox teachings.  He was exiled from Jerusalem, and a sizable band of his disciples together with their familes fled with him into the wilderness in Syria where they became brigands.  Later, Judah attempted to return to Jerusalem but was apparently killed in a battle.  His followers expected Judah to come back from the dead, and felt that the world was about to end.  Their cult lasted for the next 200 years or so in isolated areas in Palestine and it developed its own religious literature, including their interpretations of Biblical texts along with Judah's own writings and introspections.  Judah came to believe himself a messiah, the branch of David, by studying the Bible and convinced a large and sometimes influential group of people to follow him.  If above story is true, then the Dead Sea Scrolls tell the first historical account of a radical cult coming into conflict with society led by a charismatic leader which are now notorious in the past 200 years.	2003-05-16
US	35854103	R23YO265OLN9YX	1560254777	362804813	Iraq: In the Eye of the Storm	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Good, but dated, info; didn't hold my attention	IRAQ IN THE EYE OF THE STORM by Indian author Dilip Hiro is about the suffering of Iraq due to UN imposed economic sanctions.  He contends that most of Iraq's internal problems are the result of unjust external pressure from the US and Britain to further their political goals, and that without the sacntions Iraq would be in much better economic shape.  Iraq, currently under US occupation, was frought with poor sanitaion, government govenment rationing of supplies to assure a semblance of fair distribution, economic depression, rampant inflation, and severe lack of funding for health care and education, not to mention the political tyranny Saddam exercised over Iraq's non-Arab, non-Sunni ethnic groups.  Under the sanctions, absoloutely nothing in the realm of supplies that weren't authorized food or medicine (like paper and engine parts) were forbidden to be imported.  What the current US occupation will bring about is anyone's guess, but it does have unknown ulterior motives.   Hiro looses points by somewhat romanticizing Saddam Hussein in his war against Iran from 1980-88, painting him almost as a war hero and glossing over Saddams atrocities and human rights abuses.  Some other commentators condemned this book as being 'anti-American,' and mentioning that Saddam poured inordinate amounts of Iraq's oil money into palaces and donating massive sums of money to families of Palestinian suicide bombers.  This is true, but such self aggrandizment is universal among totalitarian, egotistic dictators, and Saddam is no exception (look at the Soviet Union, China and America's entertainment industry).  Also, it's not like the Palestinians are well off right now anyway.  The style of this book wasn't interesting or engaging and I was only able to finish the first half, and by that time Gulf War II was well under way so I decided to wait until that settled before I read more about Iraq as a topic.  Take a look at IRAQ IN THE EYE OF THE STORM for an alternative analysis of the situation in Iraq pre-Gulf War II that definitely disagrees with the current corperate-globalist neoconservative administration.	2003-05-12
US	35854103	RRXDMG54QJOQE	0944379044	589962776	Mein Kampf	Books	4	523	608	N	N	Let Hitler speak for himself	The edition of MEIN KAMPF I am reviewing here is the Murphy translation, different from the Manaheim translation which can be purchased in most book stores.  It has this grainy, purple-colored picture of Hitler on the front in a Nazi uniform, and the spine is bright yellow with the title written in massive red letters.  Most of the people who condemn this book so harshly probably did not read it, and have only a superficial, media-produced idea of what National Socialism/Nazism was all-about.  Ho-hum--So self-righteous, so sanctimonious.<br />The style of MEIN KAMPF is very drawn out and highly technical and detailed, presented in the form of an autiobiographical, philosphical, political, social and quasi-spiritual diatribe.  The prevailing theme of much of the first part is Hitler's frustration with the military alliance between Germany and Austria-Hungary.  He felt that the Germans should all live in one country, rather than there being a Germany and an empire ruled by Germans (the Austro-Hungarian Empire) over various ethnic groups in Eastern Europe.  I don't consider myself any kind authority on this period of time in the late 19th and early 20th century in central Europe, but some type of understanding of the political structure in place in Austria-Hungary and Germany is necessary to understand what Hitler is talking about, otherwise it will just seem like endless rambling.  Hitler writes about his expiriences in WWI, and praises the heroism of the German army in the conflict.  Germany not only held off both Britain and France on the Western Front, but was also free to battle at will with its enemies on the east and south, and (until 1918 before Marxist inspired workers' strikes), maintain the upper hand.  Hitler analyzes the use of propaganda between the two sides and concludes that the Allies had the upper hand in influencing morale for their cause.  Britain was especially successful in portraying the Germans as the 'Huns' who committed terrible atrocites sothat the Allied troops would not be as shocked going into the war as the German soldiers were, whose propaganda portrayed the Allies as silly weaklings, which was obviously not true.  Hitler understood well the workings of propaganda and how it can be used as a soft-core form of government mind-control.  There is nothing different from Hitler's description and use of it and how it is used by the news and entertainment media in America today.<br />There are many anti-Jewish statements strewn throughout MEIN KAMPF, but they are not so much to be as shocking as many would think.   The 'anti-Semitism' is more assumed than explained, but the explanation involves the Nazi theory of a three-tiered racial makup of mankind which determines human interaction between cultural and religious groups.  The \\"founders of culture\\" are the mythical Aryans.  All ancient cultural, religious and other developments can be traced to them, even though Hitler never explains who they are, or how they could be related to Germans.  The \\"preservers of culture\\" are those who got culture from the Aryans, but stagnated after the Aryans interbreeded with those of lesser racial stock.  The only apparent \\"preservers of culture\\" that Hitler mentions here are the Japanese.  The Jews are the \\"destroyers of culture.\\"  Hitler criticizes them for using their religion to justify a racial-preservation group tactic.  Hitler does not cite any sources as to where he got this information, and MEIN KAMPF generally relies on the readers' percieved, innate, subjective insight regarding racial and social issues.  Throughout are descriptions of the state controlled eugenic social policies that would be in place once the Nazis gained power in Germany.<br />The last third or so of the book is dedicated to retelling the story of the National Socialist Movement and especially Hitler's personal perspectives and recollections on it.  Highlited are the Nazi organizational sturcture and its struggles against the Marxists.	2003-05-12
US	35854103	RGKVHZPGVYOVN	0922915059	59272447	Apocalypse Culture	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Apocalypsis Iesu Christi...	\\"The Apocatastis: We are living during the time of a great apocatastis, the Greek term for the return of all things that have been lost and the revelation of all things at the end of time.\\"<br />The apparent thesis of Adam Parfrey's APOCALYPSE CULTURE is that all insane, mind-blowing and utterly bizarre ideas, theories and behaviors will be manifested and then the end will come. The book, published in the late 80's, is a collection of essays, short stories, articles, rambling tid-bits and other odds-and-ends from a variety of authors. The prevailing themes in APOCALYPSE CULTURE could be classified as conspiracy theory, paranoia, schizophrenia, apocalypticism, surrealism, ultra-anarchism, nihilism, libertarianism, anti-materialism, Luddite, anti-establishment, occultism, Satanic, and egotism.<br />A number of the essays stood out. \\"Infernal Texts\\" is a collection of quotes from various sources about man's total worthlessness and the need for a massive upheaval to eradicate the false social order that is now in place. \\"The Invisible War\\" by ... La Vey is about how constant sensory bombardments upon human beings in the modern world constitutes a collective genocide against humanity. \\"The Cereal Box Conspiracy\\" details the negative effects of sugar breakfast cereal marketing towards children, how it takes advantages of their inner fears and sexual ambiguity.  \\"From the Mark of the Beast to the Black Messiah Phenomenon\\" is about a Christian researcher's theories as to who the antichrist is, and the antichrist will apparently be a black man who will be worshipped by Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists and others the world over. \\"Eugenics: the Orphaned Science\\" presents the pro-eugenics position, and gives quotes of famous people who argued for improving the biological stock of mankind through selective breeding. \\"The Christian Right, Zionism and the Coming Penteholocaust\\" is an especially disturbing and interesting study examining the relationship between militant Israelis and their Christian fundamentalist supporters in the US. Their goal is a 'Greater Israel' in the Middle East with a rebuilt Temple and Jewish control of most of Jordan, Syria, Iraq and Lebannon. This is supposed to be a part of Biblical prophecy, according to the fundies, and it is necessary for this set up to occur before World War III begins and Christ can return. \\"Vengeance in Secret Societies\\" studies how secret societies in world history used violence and terrorism to further their political goals, starting with the Assassins in the Middles East during the time of the Muslim Caliphate. \\"The Call to Chaos\\" by James Shelby Downard is one of the most ???--huh things I've read--something about a magical bottle at the test site of the first nuclear bomb and it has something to do the the cabalistic/Masonic uniting of the mystical male and female sexual energies. Speaking of nukes, the last essay, \\"Meditations on the Atom and Time\\" will blow your mind as it relates how the nuclear bomb has achieved godlike status in our collective psyche.<br />An important lesson to be learned from APOCALYPSE CULTURE considering the popularity of US meddling in Middle Eastern affairs today: \\"It is an ancient belief of black magic that manifesting the presence of the diety required sacrifice of human victims. It was also believed that the life energy of the victims would increase the potency and longevity of the sorcerer. A mass sacrifice might even confer enough energy to make the sorcerer immortal. Could this be the reason among the circles of the Christian Right, that the Penteholocaust, the sacrificial burning of death, will invoke Christ the vampire and render his disciples immortal.\\"	2003-05-10
US	35854103	R18QD8VIK751X7	0939484757	104285142	The Founding Myths of Modern Israel	Books	4	60	84	N	N	Chew on a Sacred Cow.	THE FOUNDING MYTHS OF MODERN ISRAEL by French author Roger Garaudy describes and debunks popular perception of Zionism and the Holocaust.  Garaudy is a former Communist and is currently a liberal Muslim.  Many believe that attacks on certain Jewish interests such as this book come from \\"racists\\" and \\"right-wing extremists,\\" however Garaudy never gave up his Marxist-based internationalist and anti-racist beliefs and ideals.<br />Zionism is based on skewed interpretations of certain Biblical texts, such as God's promises to Abraham in Genesis and Joshua's 'genocide' against the Canaanites.  Garaudy compares it to Nazism/Hitlerism, except this time the Jews substitute themselves as being the \\"chosen race\\" and \\"more human.\\"  Many high ranking Zionists collaborated with the Nazi regime during WWII in order to get more Jews to immigrate to Palestine.  Once in the Middle East, the Jewish military launched ethnic-cleansing campaigns against the Arab Palestinians (who are both Muslim and Christian) and uprooted millions of them from their homes and forced them to live in refugee camps. This still goes on today, in the form of Jewish settlements on the occupied West Bank under the direction of current PM and former housing minister Ariel Sharon.  Zionism itself is described as having its roots in 19th century European nationalism, colonialism and 'racism'.  Zionism's most noted enthusiast and theorist is Theodore Herzel, an atheist who viewed Jews entirely in terms of race, same as the Nazis. As far as the big picture is concerned, Garaudy characterizes Israel as being a military presence for the United States in Middle East to further the \\"world domination\\" plans of the US.  Don't throw out any ideas no matter how non-PC they happen to stand at the moment.<br />What got this book censored in France and the author fined was because it contests the outcome of the International War Crimes Tribunal at Nuremburg, Germany, to punish Nazi war-criminals.  In France it is illegal to publish anything that challenges the outcomes of the Nuremburg decisions.  Garaudy presents the so-called \\"revisionist\\" or [Horror of Horrors!] \\"Holocaust denial\\" viewpoint of Jews under the Third Reich.  The Nuremburg trials were conducted soley to humiliate the Germans after WWII, and many were executed because they spread propaganda against the Jews and worked to escalate the War.  No Allied war-criminals were brought to trial, such as the Soviets for atrocities committed in Poland, Winston Chruchill for calling for the starvation of Germany, Harry Truman for ordering the atomic-bombs dropped on Japan or Theodore Kauffman (member of the American Jewish Congress) who authored GERMANY MUST PERISH calling for the mass sterilization of Germans.  Hitler's main goal was to destroy Communism, NOT exterminate the Jews, although Hitler placed the blame for international Communism squarely on the Jews.  The \\"Final Soloution\\" for the Jewish question was NOT extermination by gas chambers but deporting all Jews out of Europe to Madagascar or another African country if Hilter won the War.  Later, since the Africa plan was proving to be unfeasable because of Soviet onslaughts, the Jews were relocated en masse to forced labor camps to the East of Germany to serve as slave labor for the Nazis.  There were no gas chambers or mass murder at Auschwitz.  The evidence for gas-chambers comes from testimony from many camp inmates who said they HEARD about the chambers from other people.  I nearly cracked when I read the commentary on this form of evidence: \\"...if the truth of a fact is to be established by the number of testimonies which attest to it, the existance of the devil during the Middle Ages would be better established than that of any other personage.\\"  The German word for 'crematory' was mistranslated into 'gas chamber' in certain documents by Holocaust historians.  The large number of deaths in the camps was caused by the harsh conditions, lack of food and other supplies from war shortages, and outbreaks of Typhus and other lethal infectious diseases.<br />The \\"Six-Million Myth\\" as Garaudy terms it, has served Zionist interests well.  It allowed them to cast their enemies as \\"Nazis\\" who are bent on killing Jews for the heck of it, and gives the Zionists an excuse to perpetrate atrocities against their perceived enemies.  They follow a totalitarian system that tolerates no dissent, and pretending they are trying to aviod another \\"Holocaust\\" makes them above the law.  Even the word 'Holocaust' has religious signifigance: it is used in the Bible to designate a sacrifice to god which is completely consumed by fire.  In this case the Holocaust figures as a religious symbol like the Crucifixion of Chist that has its own dogmas and theology, and thus cannot be proven false no matter how outrageous its claims.<br />Garaudy concludes by saying that \\"the Truth illuminates the darkness: Efforts to silence us will be in vain.  To shut us up, they'll have to kill us.  The surge of hate against our misquoted writings...But this will only be additional confirmation that they cannot refute our arguments.\\"m war shortages, and outbreaks of Typhus and other lethal infectious diseases.  <br />The \\"Six-Million Myth\\" as Garaudy terms it, has served Zionist interests well.  It allowed them to cast their enemies as \\"Nazis\\" who are bent on killing Jews for the heck of it, and gives the Zionists an excuse to perpetrate atrocities against their perceived enemies.  They follow a totalitarian system that tolerates no dissent, and pretending they are trying to aviod another \\"Holocaust\\" makes them above the law.  Even the word 'Holocaust' has religious signifigance: it is used in the Bible to designate a sacrifice to god which is completely consumed by fire.  In this case the Holocaust figures as a religious symbol like the Crucifixion of Chist that has its own dogmas and theology, and thus cannot be proven false no matter how outrageous its claims.<br />Garaudy concludes by saying that \\"the Truth illuminates the darkness: Efforts to silence us will be in vain.  To shut us up, they'll have to kill us.  The surge of hate against our misquoted writings...But this will only be additional confirmation that they cannot refute our arguments.\\"	2003-05-02
US	35854103	R1HALJQ1J3400K	0201327988	996880502	Jewish Power: Inside The American Jewish Establishment	Books	5	39	51	N	N	"Inside the American Jewish Establishment"	JEWISH POWER by obviously liberal journalist J. J. Goldberg describes the influence of America's Jewish community in influencing the US government.  There are several problems with the book.  It does not provide enough historical context and skims over some areas where Jews are either predominient (such as in Hollywood or textiles) or grossly represented out of proportion to the rest of the population (such as the mainstream media and Ivy League schools).  Goldberg has a lot of ace to cover, and this is the type of book that might rile up that old demon \\"anti-Semitism\\" because it gives striking details on how much power the organized Jewish community wields (which includes Reform, Conservative and Orthodox synagouges plus the non-affiliated).  But otherwise what Goldberg does say is worth the five stars.  The vast majority of the book is about the ins-and-outs of Jewish 'alphabet soup' organizations, AIPAC's lobbying for Israel and its silencing of opponents, and a lengthy analysis of the conflicts between blacks and Jews from the mid-70s.<br />Jews form the most consistently liberal segment of the US population, and Democratic canidates for President have usually been able to command roughly 80% of the Jewish vote.  One-half of the white civil rights leaders that went to the South were Jews, the NAACP was formed and directed by Jews into the mid-60s and Jews have been consistently leading the fight for \\"seperation of church and state\\" (i.e. demoralizing Christians).  50% of the Democratic party's money comes from Jewish contributers.  This can be decieving, because the Jewish swing vote can influence elections, hence the Republican party also tries to drum up Jewish support, and 20% of Republican money comes from Jews.  Although the section about Jews in the media is far too brief and cursory, it mentions the NEW YORK TIMES as being the front voice for current Jewish opinions (1/3 of the TIMES' readership is estimated as Jewish anyway) and 1/4 of major editors fornews magazines are Jewish.  As for the perennial rumors of Jews controlling the media and Hollywood in particular, consider this quote from page 280:<br />\\"And in a few key sectors of the media, notably among Hollywood studio executives, Jews are so numerically dominant that calling these businesses Jewish-controlled is little more than a statistical observation.\\"<br />The most popular movement in America is what is called \\"Neoconservatism.\\"  Goldberg shows that the Neocon think tank was dominated from the start back in the sixties by ex-Marxists, most of whom were Jews.  Aside for its disparaging of liberals and the media in general, it is basically a re-hash of Marxism popularized in the sixties, but made more efficient.  Neoconservatives do not want to do away with the welfare state, but want to make it more efficient, and it is known as \\"kosher conservativism\\" because of its unconditional support for the State of Israel.	2003-04-30
US	35854103	R2ZQ9ZR86LIOP2	0922915741	95814021	Sexuality, Magic, and Perversion	Books	4	16	22	N	N	Sexuality, Magic and Perversion...	SEXUALITY, MAGIC AND PERVERSION is a short book giving a rough detail of sex-magic from the 19th century to the early 1970s.  I gave this book four stars only because it did not go into enough detail and adequately explain the theology behind occult practices of sex-magic.<br />Sex-magic forms an esoteric element in Eastern religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism, and is known as Tantra.  Tantric texts supplement orthodox Buddhist and Hindu scriptures and form their own cannon of literature.  Forms of sex-magic may have been practiced in pre-Christian Europe, and may have continued underground during the rise of the Christianity.  The concept figures in primal fertility religions that developed in cultures based on agriculture and the changing of the seasons and the monitoring of the sun, moon and stars to determine the time of the years to plant and harvest crops.  This frequently took on sexual imagery, for example spring rains being like the male seed fertilizing the female earth.  It is said that the \\"witches\\" persecuted by the Church were followers of some such ancient cult.  There is some speculation regarding the status of witches during the Middle Ages.  Occultists claim that they were practitioners of a pre-Christian universal Goddess religion.  Others, such as the noted scholar Rev. Montague Summers, claim that these witches were literally in leage with Satan himself and that the stories of them copulating with [satan] and casting spells to disrupt the Faithful are true.  The status of these so-called \\"witches\\" is not well understood by either side, pro-, or anti-Christian.<br />Modern interest in sex-magic originated from the stories brought back to Europe from travelers during the Victorian Era.  Various cults sprang up which practiced heterosexual, homosexual and masturbation rites, animal sacrifices, poisons, abortions and black masses.  Two of the most well known occult groups from the past 100 years are the Order Templi Orientis (OTO) and the Theosophical society.  British occultist Alestier Crowley, rocket scientist Jack Parsons and Madame Blavaksky are among the noted figureheads in those occult groups.	2003-04-29
US	35854103	R13IUHAFF6GQYV	0944379427	444198877	Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion	Books	5	55	138	N	N	One of the most frightening books of all time.	A lot of controversy surrounds the Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion and for good reason.  It is either an \\"anti-Semitic\\" czarist forgery or a prophecy of Jewish world domination.  The Protocols outline a plan to take over the world and establish a one world government with a descendant of King David as ruler delineated at the first Zionist conference in Zurich Switzerland in 1897.  This conquest is to take place through Jewish control of all outlets of international finance, national governments and the media.  \\"Anti-Semitism\\" will be intentionally whipped up by the conspirators in order to give the Jews something that they can stand on a united front against.<br />The detractors of the Protocols claim that they were forged by the Czar's secret police to stirr up the Russian populace against the Jews.  The history of these documents are debatable of course, but there has never been a refutation of the facts within the Protocols.  The mere mention of them will whip people into a frenzy while being ignorant of their actual contents.  Henry Ford and Adolph Hitler were the two most well known fans of the Protocols.  Don't worry, what goes around comes around--many of the tactics the Nazis used to gain power are in here as well<br />There is more than one theory surrounding who the \\"Learned Elders of Zion\\" are.  They could be a non-descript group of people belonging to the Priory of Zion, a group which supposedly has the knowledge of Jesus' bloodline (Jesus was a descendant of David).  This does not make sense because Jesus never fathered any earthly children nor did He survive the Crucfixion and flee to southern France (as the \\"Priory of Zion\\" believed).  Also, the secret world controllers could have made the Jews look collectivly responsible so that they could debunk their opponents as \\"racist.\\"  This makes very good sense and shows excellent planning and forsight, but since the Protocols were printed in 1905, our modern concept of \\"racism\\" was not known to theworld's citizenry at that time.  If the Protocols do in fact outline a world domination scheme under the direction of the Jews, not all Jews are involved.  \\"The world is controlled by people very different from who we commonly percieve\\" said Benjamin Disraeli, the Jewish-Christian convert Prime Minister of Britain.  All I can say personally is that I highly recommend reading the Protocols and see for yourself if they make sense in showing how the media, government and economy works.  The Protocols of Zion are a truly inhuman document, but one which is largely correct in its negative assessment of human nature.	2003-04-21
US	35854103	R30RX8WNJP7OBP	1569800863	26812800	The Turner Diaries: A Novel	Books	3	25	42	N	N	The "Bible" of the "Racist Right."	THE TURNER DIARIES is a fictional series of diary entries that tell the story of a global race war and genocide of non-whites and Jews set in the early '90s.  I did NOT agree with everything the book says and exhorts, but I still enjoyed reading it.  Many of the book's claims made are not well substantiated, and reflect the author's personal distastes and perceptions of those different from him.  It did inspire the Oklahoma City Bombing on 4/19/1995, but McVeigh was likely more inspired by the book's story of an all-out assault on \\"the System\\" than by TURNER DIARIES' \\"racist\\" and \\"anti-Semitic\\" content.<br />The author, \\"Andrew MacDonald\\" (actually William Pierce who was the former head of the National Alliance) got most of the ideas for this novel from Adolf Hitler's MEIN KAMPF.  However, in MEIN KAMPF there is no clear genocidal intent by mass killing as there is in the TURNER DIARIES.  The novel contains the most pessimistic view of human nature I have ever read (except for the Bible).  Everyone deserves what happens to them; death, starvation, torture, extinction.  When whites are killed along with the rest, it does not bother the book's narrator who maintains firmly the notion of collective guilt.  In the end, the Organization wages war against the US populace because since it failed to gain support from an idealogical appeal, it instead uses two things people can understand: \\"hunger and fear.\\"  I have never seen a more triumphalistic and radical plot line development (outside of the book of Revelation).  Very few books start out with a convienience store robbery and end with the overthrow of all of the world's governments, nuclear holocaust and genocide of all third world peoples.<br />The Order, which directs the Organization waging the race-war, is a self-chosen group playing God.  They justify anything they do with a divine mandate that they alone will determine the future of humanity, who will live and who will die.  Their rule is totalitarian--any disobedience, or anything out of line with the Order is met with instant death.  They operate on the principles of the most radical forms of Communism and Anarchism.  Everything must be torn down and destroyed and a New World Order set up.  In this case the New Order is only for whites who meet the Order's eugenic requirements, instead of the standard multi-racial, men-and-women-the-same, everyone equal fantasy of the Communist and Anarchist dreamers.<br />Another commentator said this book is similar to Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS.  This is almost an acceptable analogy, if you consider the Order being like the Fellowship of the Ring, blacks like the orcs, Jews like the Dark Lord and his Ringwraiths.  The climax is when the narrator crashes a cropduster into the Pentagon detonating a nuclear bomb on Hitler's \\"Day of the Martyrs\\" which is November 9.  Similar in symbolism to the Ring's detruction in Mount Doom on March 25, the Traditional English date of the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ.  In fact, TURNER DIARIES is full of symbolic dates where major terrorist attacks occur such as 9/11 (Pierce's birthday), 11/9 (Hitler's Beer Hall Putsch), and 4/20 (Hitler's birthday).	2003-04-19
US	35854103	R1S05934JGZ1QW	0664223036	603143959	Calvin for Armchair Theologians	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Basic overview of Calvin's life and thought.	CALVIN FOR ARMCHAIR THEOLOGIANS is a very unbiased look at Calvin's ideas.  They are presented in a favorable light, but it does not appear as if the author agrees fully with Calvin's teaching.  Servetus, an anti-Trinitarian, was burned at the stake in Geneva under Calvin's auspices, and the author mentions Servetus' ideas as being \\"ahead of his time\\"--in that the orthodox Christian concept of the Trinity is outdated and is not considered today to be as \\"universal\\" as the \\"one God, we are One\\" mantra of today.<br />Considering the nature of theology--pretty dry and abstract without much humor or human element, Ron Hill does a great job elucidating his subject with cartoon-strip illustrations to drive home certain points.  This loosens up the subject matter of God's wrath, predestination of the Elect, and the need for an innocent Man to suffer and die quite a bit.  The fist part of the book is the history of Calvin's life and career.  The second part is about Calvin's teachings and perceptions of God as interpreted from the Bible.  The last part tries to figure out where John Calvin stands in history--was he as bad as liberal Protestants say?  Did he contribute to future religious intolerance and bigotry?  Did Calvin provide sort of a spiritual force behind the rise of mercantillism and modern capitalism?  Was he influential in the outlook of America's Founding Fathers?  Calvin upheld the doctrine of man's absoloute moral degeneration; it would be a grave mistake for any one individual or body of people to have too much power in a government unchecked.  Therefore, it would be better to have a system of government that provides checks and balances to keep one group from getting too much power.  In all, this is a fun, quick and easy read if you are not horrified at hardcore Christian theology, including the controversial doctrine of Predestination.	2003-04-18
US	35854103	R255EQNX9K7Y1	0922915571	642760150	Apocalypse Culture II	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Various warped perceptions of reality	Apocalypse Culture II is a huge, 450 page collection of articles, essays and other assorted texts that present the most extreme and bizarre opinions and practices that can be found in society today.  That's putting it mildly.  An encyclopedia of the taboo including cloning Jesus, cannibalism, necrophilia, pedophilia, conspiracy theories, Satanism, mind-control, vampirism, excretment, genetically engineered hermaphrodites, expensive sex-dolls made of silicon used for masturbation, a short story by Ted Kaczynski, pictures that combine images of Hitler, Holocuast victims and child pornography; the list goes on and on.  The views expressed can be largely classified as nihilistic, as another commentator notes--a narcissistic belief in nothing, a cultural vaccuum.  Pedophilia is given more space than anything else in the anthology--especially disturbing since this book was published in 2000, a year and a half before the Church scandal and the widely publicized child abductions.  The material here is not for the faint of heart or those who are not cynical and optimistic about the human condition.<br />Most of the material is insanity, and worthless, but very interesting if you want to know what is going on in some people's heads.  There are a few good contributions that do tell us a lot about our culture as a whole.  The best essay is \\"America the Possessed Corpse,\\" the preface to James Shelby Downard's autobiography, CARNIVALS OF LIFE AND DEATH.  Here's the message--America is not a great big melting pot, but rather a witch's cauldron brewing with sex-magic, ritual murder and race-mixing.  Revisionist historian Michael Hoffnman gives his critique of the FBI's handling of the Unabomber case.  The man who pled guilty to the attacks, Ted Kaczynski, was a symbolic scapegoat to cover up for the \\"Cryptocracy's\\" ritualistic crime involving pagan fertility rites and black magic.  \\"For Fear of Little Men\\" is a similarly bizarre essay detailing our collective fascination with small, artificial, animated men.  This fettish manifests itself in such things as GI Joe, Barbie dolls, cartoon characters, video game characters, Furbies, Telletubbies and robotic dogs.  \\"High Tech Marketing Research\\" details the methods of how advertisers and retailers collect information on consumers' spending habits--a great threat to people's privacy.  The essayist asks this thought provoking question:  \\"Do we really want to give up our privacy for a 10% discount on Pop Tarts?\\"  The final contribution in APOCALYPSE CULTURE II is a short story by Ted Kaczynski, \\"Ship of Fools.\\"  A ship is sailing further and further north into icy and dangerous waters, but the people on the ship are not aware or concerned about this and pester the captain about irrelevant issues that feel good for the moment but offer no hope of collective survival.  A woman passenger wants the women to have as many blankets as the men, an animal-lover wants the ship's dog not to be kicked, an Indian wants to be allowed to run a casino, a Mexican sailor wants his orders to be issued to him in Spanish, a homosexual sailor wants to be able to...Anyway, a cabin boy pipes up and says the people have some legitimate grievances, but they better focus on turning the whole ship around.  His shipmates denounce him as \\"fascist\\" and \\"counter-revoloutionary,\\" and the ship crashes between icebergs and everyone on the boat perishes.	2003-04-18
US	35854103	R8HG7FFW7HL57	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"Perception Is Reality"--taken to its logical extremes.	1984 is a novel about a futuristic society in London where every one and every thing is totally controlled by the government.  An entity known as \\"Big Brother\\" embodies the state and commands absoloute obedience and religious devotion from the populace; he is considered to be all-powerful and all-knowing.  This represents the worst possible outcome for future, technocratic, materialistic and relativistic society:  whatever benefits the masses and keeps the ruling Party in power is acceptable and there must be no deviation from the Party line.  Population control is maintained through rationing, propaganda, mind-control, executions of POWS, unpleasant sensory distractions, total repression of sexuality and familial bonds, 24-7 work loads, pointless wars against forign enemies, destroying words so people cannot express themselves and erasing any knowledge people have of the past before the Party's \\"Revoloution.\\"<br />No privacy for individuals is allowed.  TV \\"telescreen\\" cameras are everywhere, watching everyone around the clock.  Their motive is not to deter crime in the general sense but to deter \\"thought crime,\\" cases where individuals seem to be manifesting symptoms of political dissent or nervousness about their existance.  This is especially scary, given that 1984 was published in 1949 after the fall of Nazi Germany and the ascendancy of the Soviet Union over Eastern Europe.  Today telvision cameras are everywhere watching people's movements, and some new ones can even identify facial features and match them to a name and personal history on a computer database.  1984's \\"telescreens\\" are double trouble--not only can they monitor citizens but they constantly barrage them with government propaganda.  Today everyone who has electricity can now voluntarily turn on their TV and inject their minds full of whatever the government and the corperate media conglomerates want you to hear.  If someone watching you through your TV screen bothers you, think about what it would be like if you were never allowed to turn your MTV or the FACTOR with Bill O'Reilly off!<br />The government also uses torture on specific \\"thought-criminals\\" in order to destroy their resistance to Party dogmatics.  The objective is to cause so much physical, mental and emotional stress that the subject is unable to reason for themselves and accepts whatever the Party says is true.  In the novel this is justified by the notion that \\"Perception is reality.\\"  Whatever a human brain thinks is true is true.  The stars are not flaming balls of hydrogen fusion millions of light years away, no, we can stretch out our hands and touch them if we want.  We are not bound by the law of gravity--we can float into the air if we want to.  Even 2+2=5 if we so desire.  The only problem is making everyone think exactly the same as everyone else.  According to this there is no truth except what the person in charge says is truth and whatever they can do to make you believe it, then it is true.  This is happening all around our world today--the rule of relativism.  If there are no concepts of right and wrong, then Anarchy and/or Totalitarianism take over and the world is ruled by Might Makes Right.  It nearly happened in the 1940's, and could happen (and is happening) again.  The American people may not be controlled by the use of brute force and sexual repression now, but they are directed by government and media propaganda in the same way as described in Orwell's 1884.	2003-04-18
US	35854103	RY3G6GVOUMUWU	0062737384	509103202	The World's Most Dangerous Places	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The wacked out countries of the world...and then some	Here is a catalouge, an encyclopedia, and the antithesis of travel guides if you will, of the least popular and least understood countries that make up patches in the giant eclectic quilt that is our planet.  There is not a whole lot of romance or fun and games here--but a lot of black humor, sarcasm, hard-core reality, problems, lack of soloutions to said problems.  This is not in the humor section, but I personally found it among the funniest books I have ever read.  If you want travel tips that will lead you to unsafe, unhealthy, violent, totalitarian, impoverished warzones, then you hit the jackpot.  There are entire chapters on bribes, guns, landmines, spying, diseases, kidnappings, tribal insurgencies, violent crime, frauds, religious fundamentalism and wars.  Each chapter starts off with a photograph that sums up the entire point--a kid carrying a bazooka (for Uganda), a man wearing a gas mask in front of a wall of grafitti (for the US), a native holding an AK-47 (for Bougainville), a woman pointing a gun at a camera (for Iran), a woman holding a sign saying 'I love my India--I hate Pakistan' (for India), an unconscious man lying half-naked on a sidewalk beside an emaciated street urchin (for Brazil), a monkey sitting on a picnic table smoking a cigarette (for the drug chapter): the list goes on and on.  The countries featured are not the most popular to go on spring break, have fun, let loose and hang out at right now: Afghanistan, Algeria, Chechnya, Columbia (the only country that encourages tourists NOT to visit it), Iran, Iraq, Kurdistan, North Korea, Rwanda, etc.  Even the US is featured, and our culture of violence is given a lot of press: wars against small countries, school shootings, murders, suicides, crime, drugs and gangs.  All kinds of interesting information about the politics around the world is to be examined here which aren't seen or heard on the TV: \\"Did you study Somali politics 101?\\"  DANGEROUS PLACES is rather critical of US policy as a whole.  If you want to know why so many people hate the United States, it is largely because of US interference in political conflicts and marketing of its materialistic consumerism in poor, ultra-conservative or otherwise radical countries, in which many people reside who want cultural and political self-determination.  I learned a lot myself, and it is highly recommended for some of the more esoteric and in-depth knowledge of our current world situation.	2003-04-12
US	35854103	R21IOO98KVOTOX	1881867013	85625356	War Cycles - Peace Cycles	Books	4	19	23	N	N	The tyranny of Usury	WAR CYCLES-PEACE CYCLES is about usury and money manipulation.  The Bible forbids usury--the lending at interest.  However, Christians the world over have disregarded God's commandment and have fallen prey to the banking machinations of Christendom's enemies, the foremost of whom are the Jews.  Here is where there are some problems with this book.  It views everything in racial terms, and quotes Biblical texts to support Christian \\"Identity\\" theology--the belief that white Christians are the literal descendants of Abraham, Issac and Jacob, and that the Law and precepts of Jesus' teaching do not apply to non-white peoples.  Contrary to liberal idealism, racial differences to exist, but this is outside the realm of Biblical study and should be discussed in another context.  Not all Jews are involved so this book errs by indicting the Jews as a race, rather than certain Jews working behind the scenes to set up a New World Order in allegiance with many gentiles such as the Masons and the Skull and Bones.  Also, money in and of itself is not the sole driving force behind the world's events, but it does play a MAJOR role.<br />The problem lies with who has the power to issue currency and authorize its circulation.  Right now, the Federal Reserve and the nation's banks under its control have the power to.  This is in violation of the Constitution which allows the Federal Government to print and issue its own money such as Greenbacks.  All the government has to do when it is short on funds is to MAKE money and use it.  If too much of this money is in circulation, then the government taxes it out.  Currently, the banks issue their own money through loans.  This has caused a lot of problems in world history.  Hoskins explains how revoloutions, regicide and emancipation of slaves are done to secure more potential borrowers.  When the blacks were freed after the Civil War, they became indebted and had to become tenant farmers, still stuck to the land.  Slaves aren't freed for humanitarian reasons, sorry, but so that the lenders can have some more customers.  When countries are defeated in war, they have to borrow money, and the System wants people in charge who won't repudiate the loans.  This is what happened to Napoleon Bonaparte, Jefferson Davis of the Confederacy, Maximilian of Mexico, Nicholas II of Russia, Mussolini, Adolph Hitler, Japan's military rulers and Ngo Dinh Diem of Vietnam.<br />America could be in an agricultural crisis because of usury banking.  We need a return to Biblical law.  The small farmers are overburdened by monthly mortgage payments, and the land and the food supply have suffered for it.  Corperate farming uses too many pesticides, weed killers and artificial fertilizers.  Why all the cancer, rashes and allergies today?  Look at what's being placed in the environment by inefficient corperate farming.  The Bible says that every seven years the land is supposed to not be tilled.  There is a reason for that--to allow the nutrients to be replenished naturally.  What is needed is for the banks to get off farmers' backs and return to traditional methods of farming.<br />WAR CYCLES concludes with an apocalyptic warning.  Hoskins posists that America will be militarily assaulted in the future by third world nations that are jealous of America's food supply, but that somehow \\"Israel\\" (in Hoskins' view white Christians) will be delivered by divine intervention of some kind.  The believers are in a fix--the media, banks, government, police, politicians and armed forces are under the control of anti-Christian forces.  We only have God to rely on, and we better study what's going on and find out as much as we can.  I don't know what the future holds, but it's going to get a whole lot worse before it gets any better.	2003-04-10
US	35854103	RWQYA7VB2EAIP	0875524443	630230884	The Five Points of Calvinism: Defined, Defended, Documented	Books	5	14	23	N	N	Determinism as taught in the Scripture.	The predestination debate between various groups in Christendom centers on whether or not human beings act independetly of their own free will or whether if conscious will does not exist and everything that happens is determined beforehand by a higher power.  \\"Calvinism\\" is the nickname given to the hardcore, anti-free will perspective within Christianity.  However, this title is misleading, as since this theological conflict goes back to the earlist days in Christian history.  Augustine taught the doctrines of Calvinism in contrast to Pelagius who upheld the goodness of human nature in the fourth century AD.  Most of the Protestant reformers where Calvinists, but a voice of dissent was raised by James Arminius and his followers in Holland.  They formulated a five point set of teachings that limited the power of God to the whims of concious human will, in contrast to the teachings of the Bible, as revealed in this book.  Thus Calvinism's five points were not randomly drawn up, but were written to consolidate the Biblical teaching against Arminius.  The five points are spelled out in the acronym TULIP (Total depravity, Unconditional election, Limited atonement, Irresistable grace and Perseverance of the saints).  Basically, God saves man, not man himself.  It spells out the total depravity of mankind and his bondage to the lusts of the flesh and to the devil, and cannot of any means raise himself out of his fallen position without Divine aid.  God chose those to be saved because He is God, and it is not the role of humans (us) to question the will of God.  When God allowed Satan to destroy all of Job's possessions and kill Job's family, Job said to his wife, \\"the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away; blessed be the name of the Lord.\\"  Furthermore, Christ did NOT die on the cross to save all men, only those who were predestined by the Father to have faith in Him.  The angels commanded Joseph and Mary to name him Jesus, because he would save HIS PEOPLE from their sins.This salvation does not apply to all, for instance Christ called his enemies not of his flock and of their father the devil.  God's Will is final, and nothing exists outside of it.  <br />The authors quote a clergyman, Charles Spurgeon: \\"I love to proclaim these strong old doctrines that are called by the nickname Calvinism, but which are surely and verily the revealed truth of God as it is in Christ Jesus.  By this truth I make a pilgrimage into [the] past, and as I go, I see father after father, confessor after confessor, martyr after martyr, standing up to shake hands with me...I see the land of the ancients peopled with my brethren...and acknowledge that this is the religion of God's own church.\\"<br />Currently, \\"Calvinism\\" is not very popular in Christian teaching, but that does not detract from its basis in Biblical texts.  Most of the material in this short book are in fact passages from the Bible that support human depravity, the saving work of Christ and God's election of the ones who will be saved through Christ.  The concept is like that of election day:  the president is chosen, but does not actually occupy the office of the presidency until he is sworn into office.  I personally do not believe in free will.  If we had free will, we could reason and and conquer what is bad in the world, but that is obviously not the case.  Just by observing the world, I can tell that sex and death are in complete control, but everything will work out in the end to God's Will, in which the chosen will be glorified and the unredeemed will be condemned.	2003-04-02
US	35854103	R1LWWB108AGJLW	089281506X	358766535	Revolt Against the Modern World	Books	5	117	127	N	N	Tradition and Trancendence vs. the Modern World	REVOLT AGAINST THE MODERN WORLD by Sicilian noble Julius Evola formulates the doctrines and ideals of ancient tradition as embodied in the Indo-European (\\"Aryan\\") myths and ledgends of the Hindus, Germans, Romans, Greeks, Persians, Egyptians, Sumerians, Chinese, Japanese, Aztecs and Incas.  Christian beliefs, especially those of Catholicism, and Islam's Koran also figure in this concept.  Although Evola's ideas could be categorized as being occult and esoteric, they have absoloutely no relation to the \\"New Age\\" and humanist types of belief widely popular today.  There is little in REVOLT about human brotherhood and \\"luhv,\\" as these modern ideas come from inferior spiritualities that were opposed to Tradition.  The concept of Tradition, as being self-existent from what is \\"above\\" and which is \\"transcendent\\" is very non material and abstract, so it is rather hard to put a finger on it.  Furthermore, Evola's spirituality is not for everyone, which in fact, is the whole beauty of it.<br />Mankind, especially the denizens of the West, have lost touch with the divine, trancendent and superindividual elements in their lives and social structures.  The current modern world is called the 'Kali Yuga' in Hinduism, the 'Iron Age' by Hesiod and the 'Age of the Wolf' in the Nordic Edda.  The characteristics of the modern world are radical egalitarianism, confusion of gender and caste rolls and the non-functioning of divine regality.  Evola is pro-caste system, showing that disorientation occurs when individuals within castes are unable to fulfill what their status in life.<br />There are many areas in this book which differ from most occult thought.  Evola is strongly anti-feminist, and disdains female based spirituality as being opposed to the masculine principles in tradition.  This is evidenced by the glorification of Heracles for having killed the warrior Amazonian tribeswomen, among other examples.  Female sprituality tends to be regressive, which symbolically brings peopleback towards the darkness and unconsciousness of the womb rather than onward to greater action in the light, as embodied by masculine orientated spirituality, the Solar principle.  The fact that the word \\"Aryan\\" appears about five times on nearly every page is also not in vouge.  Evola voices contempt for the breakdown of the traditional family structure, the increased rate of divorce and sexual promiscuity.<br />In Evola's final analysis, he comes out against spectator sports as a mere plebian pastime, against dance concerts as the epitome of the mindless human mass under control, and demonizes modern day science as being the \\"science of dead matter.\\"  As far as religious outlook is concerned, Evola belives in some kind of myth that the ancestors of the Indo-Europeans came from a distant land in the north (Hyperborea, likely a vegetated Greenland before the Ice Age), and rejects Darwin's theory of evoloution.  There are a good number of anti-Christian statements, but his assessment of Catholicism is relativly positive.  As to God's Law, traditional men believed that the Law was given by the Divine from above to guide man, in keeping with the Biblical teaching.  Evola is against the concept of religion as being merely moral and humanistic speculation without any unifying rites of worship.  The tone throughout is very pessimistic, and his quote from a Hindu text describing the Kali Yuga that describes America down to the last detail.  However there is a note of optimism:  Hesiod wrote that he was glad that he was not born in the Iron Age.  Evola disagrees with him.  Anyone who is standing among the ruins in today's modern world in the name of what comes from above will be a greater hero then the ones in the ages before.  As it was written on the Kamikaze aircraft, \\"You are gods who are free from all human yearnings.\\"	2003-03-30
US	35854103	R3IGMFB5EDG1QF	0312155166	420766204	The Divinity of Sex: The Search for Ecstacy in a Secular Age	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Correct hypothesis, doesn't come to any good conclusions.	DIVIVINTY OF SEX posists that in our modern secular, materialistic and technological age, sex has replaced traditional religion as what is revered and worshipped.  This is true, as the Bible itself documents.  When God's people stopped worshipping Him as the Truth, Light and the Way, they turned towards divinizing their base and animalistic desires, the most primal of course is sexual desire, the urge to procreate.  The author is correct in this analysis and presents a plethora of evidence to support this theological concept.<br />The unfortunate part is that the author, Pickstone (an Anglican minister) clings to all of the modern and secular ideas concerning Christianity, so even though he does a good job at identifying the \\"divinity of sex\\" in our society he does not yield any further insights.  The biblical prophets would have condemned this in unequivocal terms, and would have exhorted the people to remain faithful or else.  Pickstone does not seem to recognize that this type of decadence is not necessarily a good thing.  Furthermore, DIVINITY OF SEX contains all the liberal stereotypes; women being more spiritual than men and homosexual men being more spiritual than heterosexuals for instance.  At the bottom line, this book represents some of the dazed, droned, drugged, oversexed, materialistic and impotent relativism that has hamstrung our modern world to moral chaos.	2003-03-27
US	35854103	R1OLGRYA0W8NCX	0806518332	946644584	The Sixty Greatest Conspiracies of All Time: History's Biggest Mysteries, Coverups, and Cabals	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good, could have been great	60 GREATEST CONSPIRACIES is an informal encyclopedia of a variety of conspiracy theories from the last two hundred years.  It begins by dicsussing the nature of these theories, and why they are hated so much by the Establishment.  Theorists tend to be against those in influence and authority, and frequently deal with the Dark Side of human nature, stuff most people do not want to discuss in polite conversation.  One of the methods used to supress conspiracies are when the establishment circulates its own wacky stories that they themselves can easily refute in order to make independent researchers look like fools and thus discredit them easier.  The authors are obviously liberals, and this hampers them to some degree, especially when viewing certain topics and summarizing them, but otherwise there is a multitude of useful information and speculation.  Some of the material seems poorly edited, and I had trouble trying to find out what the possible motives were in certain events described, especially the chapters on political assassinations.  Some things in here are not conspiracies, like the chapter on the eugenics movement which gleams with the authors' liberal bias, and some useless info is included on UFOs and Alien Autopsies.  The editors reject the notions of a possible Jewish conspiracy, but instead think that some kind of Nazi-fascist group is calling the shots behind the scenes in spite of contrary evidence that can be researched elsewhere.<br />Most of the best chapters were about unified field theories and satanic/occult-ritual crimes.  Enjoy the really good ones:<br />'The Royal Ripper':  Jack the Ripper slayings in London could have been the work of Masonic Assassins, high ranking figures in British society to symbolically terrorize London's underclass population and intimidate possible snitches.<br />'Death Squad from the Desert':  Charles Manson's connections to the Process Chruch of the Final Judgement.<br />'Hello from the Gutters':  My second favorite, about a possible occult group perpetrating the Son of Sam killings and other ritualistic murders around the country and being involved in the snuff-film trade.  Michael Hoffman II makes some connections to the Manson murders, and to the rape-death of Virginia Rappe (a virgin-rape ritual symbolizing the extension of the elephant trunk's power) by Roscoe \\"Fatty\\" Arbuckle in 1921.  Son of Sam also connected to Illuminati and attack on Gerald Ford.<br />'Enlightened Ones':  speculations on who the Illuminati are.<br />'THE SORCERERS':  My personal favorite, it advances Downard's idea that the world's Masonic rulers do what they do not for power or money but to warp humanity in an Alchemical process.  The three things that have to take place are killing of the divine king (JFK assassination), creation and destruction of primordial matter (nuclear bomb test) and \\"the making manifest of all that is hidden.\\"<br />'Anglophobia':  Theories that rock music concerts and dancing are a revival of Dionysian/Bacchic rituals, and that sex-degenerate cults, rock music, sixties counter-culture and drug trade are traced to the British crown and secret agents.<br />'Playing Those Mind Games':  Stuff on mind control.  Possibility that UFO \\"abductions\\" are part of government expirements.<br />All in all, well worth looking at if \\"the most controversial explanations\\" of well-known events happen to interest the reader.	2003-03-25
US	35854103	R27DWH0V601Y3M	0520232062	266017875	Terror in the Mind of God: The Global Rise of Religious Violence (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	3	17	24	N	N	"The global rise of religious violence"	I enjoyed reading TERROR IN THE MIND OF GOD because it attemps to profile and analyze the more extreme groups and forms of thought around the world.  It could not have done better for a cover--featuring the three poster children of terrorism: Shoko Asahara, Timothy McVeigh and Osama bin Laden.<br />All of the world's major religions are represented here in their most hardcore forms:  Anti-abortionists; Christian Identity; Christian Reconstructionists; Neonazis; the IRA; Democratic Unionist Party; Jewish fundamentalists like Yoel Lerner, Meir Kahane, Yigal Amir, Baruch Goldstein; Islamic fundamentalist organizations like HAMAS, Hizbollah and Al Qaeda; Sihk separatists who want to turn India's Punjab state into 'Khalistan'/'Land of the Pure'; and finally Japan's Buddhist Aum Shinrikyo cult.<br />Juergensmeyer provides a great deal of research on these groups, and even goes the extra step by interviewing members of them who either defected or are imprisoned.  It offers some reasons why violent religious groups form and commit acts of carnage:  A great fear of cultural assimilation and loss of ethnic identity; economic and sexual distress; violent symbolism used in sacred texts such as the Bible, Koran and Bhagavad Gita; and the need for disenfranchised males to symbolically or actually control women's sexuality or other sexual expression traditionally or culturally viewed as deviant.  Certain days of the year are chosen for attacks for symbolic value.  For instance McVeigh bombed Oklahoma City on 4/19 \\"Patriot's Day.\\" In the historical context, April 19 was the date of the minutemen's battle with British forces at Lexington, the Nazi attack on the Warsaw ghetto and the destruction of the Branch Davidian compound by Federal Agents at Waco in 1993.  The Purim festival was chosen for Baruch Goldstein's assault on Muslim worshippers at the Tomb of the Patriarchs because that holiday celebrates Jewish vengeance on their enemies.<br />However, there are a good number of problems with this book.  It is written from a liberal, secularist and statist perspective.  It completely ingores government terrorist action against civillian populations to keep the peace and root out political foes around the world.  The book also fails to recognize the validity of the statement \\"One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter.\\"  At no point does Juergensmeyer even think that despite the backwardness of these groups, they have real issues and complaints that are not being addressed by the world community, and that free-market, materialist globalism and mass-multiculturalism are not what they are cracked up to be.	2003-03-23
US	35854103	RRGXC7DKZ8HRQ	0745312764	862996109	Jewish Fundamentalism in Israel (Pluto Middle Eastern Studies)	Books	5	29	40	N	N	"Anti-Semitism?"....How about Jewish anti-Gentilism??	This book is divided into four parts after the preface and introduction: it discusses the ultra-orthodox Haredim, Gush Emunim and the Israeli National Religious Party (NRP), Baruch Goldstein, and Yigal Amir and the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzak Rabin.<br />First of all, the record is set straight on how the Haredi Jews regard the texts of the Scriptures/Bible.  Except for the Pentateuch, they are not studied or even known except within the context of the Talmudic passages and the Cabala.  Judaism is not based on the Bible but rather on its skewed interpretations by past Rabbis.<br />The authors expose the phenomenon of Jewish fundamentalism, especially its messianic beliefs and thought.  The horrors of Christian and Islamic fundamentalism are well documented in the mass media, but Jewish fundamentalism is ignored, as Shahak and Mezvinsky detail.  The goal of these movements is the restoration of the past, ideal Jewish society, comparable to Eastern European Jewry in the 16th-19th centuries.  Their basic doctrine is that Jews are superior to non-Jews, derived from the teachings of the Cabala as developed by Issac Luria.  The foremost teacher of this doctrine in modern times is the spritual founder of Gush Emunim, Rabbi Kook, the Elder.  The belief is that the messiah will come and establish Jewish rule over non-Jews through military force, followed by another messiah who will perform miracles and wonders.  The authors point out that the Bible teaches that there will be only one messiah, while the Cabala says there will be the two messiahs, who are supposed to be specific individuals.  <br />Rabbi Kook went further and taught his followers that the Gush Emunim party ('Block of the Faithful') is both of the messiahs and that the messianic passages refer to a collective group of people rather than individuals.  They believe they are infallible; destined to make the State of Israel the Kingdom of Israel with a king and ruling Sanhedrin, and that Israel will become \\"heaven on earth,\\" and \\"God's throne.\\"  Jewish fundamentalists look to the day when all of the churches are destroyed in Israel and all the Arab Palestinians uprooted form \\"Jewish land.\\"  Furthermore, they quote Biblical passages in order to justify a Jewish Middle Eastern empire that would dominate the Sinai, Lebanon, Jordan, Kuwait, Syria, parts of Saudi Arabia and Iraq.  The Hebron massacre committed by Baruch Goldstein and assassin Yigal Amir based their actions on precepts taken from Jewish fundamentalist teaching, from such revered figures as Moses ben Maimon.  The last chapter of the book is about how some of Judaism's more controversial teachings are intentionally ommited from English language sources because they cast an unfavorable light upon Israel, Jews, and Judaism that many Jews in political positions and influence would wish to avoid.  This is the reason why Shahak and Mezvinsky devoted a whole chapter at the end on why they refused to provide a bibliography of English language sources on Judaism and the topics they brough to light.  Magic, amulets and spells are very popular in Israel and books in these subjects often make it into the best-seller lists.  There are a great number of fascinating topics described in this book that should shock readers of any backround, if they can get over their prejudices regarding this type of subject matter.	2003-03-22
US	35854103	RQYK0LAOMV1LT	0316294748	555280414	Red Mafiya:  How the Russian Mob Has Invaded America	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Brain to Pinky: "Take over the world!"	RED MAFIYA by Robert Friedman is a report on some of the figures and actions of the Russian mob in the United States today.  Although, there are some claims that this book is \\"anti-Semitic,\\" the author is himself Jewish.  Friedman was a brave author to write and publish this because of the nature of the criminals he is trying to expose.<br />The Russian mob has been making tremendous headway in its criminal undertakings since it first took root in the 1970's.  It is made up of many Soviet emigres who were brought over to the US because of some of their \\"refugee\\" status.  Many are Jews brought over through the auspices of Jewish aid and refugee organizations.  The two largest centers of Russian mob activity are Brighton Beach (in Brooklyn) and Miami.  Many of its members are brilliant and highly educated, some holding PhDs in engineering, mathematics and economics.  They have been involved in pretty much everything in which illegal money is to be made: the drug trade, prostitution, sex-clubs, gasoline bootlegging to avoid excise taxes, money laundering, arms deals, extortion, possibly rigging NHL games, jewelry theft and smuggling, the list goes on and on...<br />One of the reasons for the Mafiya's success is that is has two entire countries to base themselves in: Russia and Israel.  Russia is completely corrupt with a crumbling economy and infrastructure.  Israel offers a safe haven because it does not extradite its citizens and any Jew fleeing peresecution can seek refuge there.  Israel also has very lax banking laws, to encourage the income of capital, so billions of dollars have been illegally laundered there over the years.  Most of the top players in the Russian mob are Jewish, including Elson, Agron, Nayfeld, Balagula, noted author Yuri Brokhin, politically connected orthodox Rabbi Ronald Greenwald, Ludwig \\"Tarzan\\" Fainburg and the most powerful, Semion Mogilevich.  Some, like Ivankov, are not Jewish but hold Israeli citizenship.  The fact that many of the mobsters are Jewish is mentioned by Friedman as a cause of law-enforcement's lack of motivation in tackling the issue because it would inflame extremly sensitive political interests.  Prominient names appear in this book who have had cameos with mobsters--all the way up to Bill Clinton and Al Gore.	2003-03-15
US	35854103	R1X3GN5UMPO13R	0399521577	252596463	Schmoozing: The Private Conversations of American Jews	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Candid and honest remarks on a variety of topics.	SCHMOOZING discusses the attitudes, private opinions and behaviors of individuals in the American Jewish community.  There are contributions from the whole spectrum of Jewry, from Chassids to atheists.  Dr. Halberstam, remains relativly neutral and is very informative in his comments.  He keeps the pace moving quickly, and conveys the information here in an anecdotal manner.  Most of the Jews that are quoted, however, respond to an issue with an overwhelming tirade of self-aggrandizment, vindication and pomp.  The book is divided into sections dealing with Jews' attitudes on a variety of topics.<br />Starting with money, Jews acknowledge their skills with businesses, but feel unconfortable when non-Jews talk about it.  Jews (as always) suspect anti-Semitism.  Jews are also very self-conscious about their intellectual strength (25% of the Ivy League School students are Jewish, Halberstam calls it the \\"Oy Vey League\\").  Jewish guilt complexes, as personified by Woody Allen are looked at.  In sexual behavior, Halberstam quotes a study revealing that Jews have intercourse with more partners and more frequently with these partners than any other ethnic group.  Jews and Christians have completely different perceptions of sexual morality.  Jewish sages have nearly without exception been married, but top-tier Western thinkers have (except for John Stuart Mill) always been celibate.  The stereotypes of American Jewish men and women are discussed in this context.  Here's something interesting about how Jews view their intellects and physical bodies: to think like a gentile is bad, to look like a gentile is good.<br />More controversial parts of SCHMOOZING deal with the American Jewish community's attitudes towards Jewish \\"traitors\\" and non-Jews.  There are three groupings of traitors: the Jews for Jesus or other Jews who convert to Christianity, Jews who are anti-Israel, and Jews who deny the Holocaust.  Noam Chomsky appears to be Jewish traitor #1 according to one of Halberstam's friends.  Halberstam does not use the term \\"Holocaust\\" as much as he uses the more reverential Hebrew term the \\"Shoah.\\"  Jews have a strong suspicion of non-Jews.  The Jewish community has had certain enemies.  There is Hitler, of course, but also His Holiness Pope Pius XII and Pat Buchannan are hated.<br />In all, this is a great book to read if you are interested in popular stereotypes regarding the Jews.  SCHMOOZING doesn't lean either for or against them, just gives anecdotes and comments.  But sometimes stereotypes have a basis in truth.	2003-03-09
US	35854103	RDJWQ7BW1VZIG	1564741222	216071836	CRIME OF CHRISTENDOM	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Blood Libel	CRIME OF CHRISTENDOM's proposition is that belief in the orthodox Christian Creed (Divinity of Christ, virgin birth, atonement for humanity's sins, \\"polytheistic\\" Trinity, Crucifixion, Ressurection, etc.) is inherently \\"anti-Semitic\\" and \\"bigoted.\\" Bratton complains throughout that despite of the Church's massive liberalization during the past fifty years (this book was published in the late '60's) it has not changed its theology, which is at fault because it is \\"anti-Semitic.\\" That's not the point. Christianity is a religion, and every religion has specific dogmas which cannot be contradicted because they happen to be offensive to those who would destroy them. Hinduism believes in reincarnation, Buddhism holds that Siddhartha Gautama became \\"enlightened,\\" and Islam holds that God's greatest and last prophet is Mohammed. Are these religions \\"anti-Semitic\\" because they hold specific dogmas that make them unique from Judaism? Do all of these individual theologies make them responsible for the Holocaust as Christianity's theology apparently is? Does Jewish belief in their \\"Chosen People\\" status make them inherently anti-Christian? Just didactic diversion.<br />Bratton also goes on about how the theology of Judaism is more inclusive and universal that that of Christianity. This is not the case. Christianity is a universal faith, based on an individual's relationship with God. Judaism is a tribal faith, based on a pseudo-race/religion's own survival and exploitation of other races and religions. Furthermore, the author ALWAYS takes the pro-Jewish position, and makes Jews appear blameless, while Christians are always portrayed as bloodthirsty animals. The great Christian Church Fathers, theologians, philosophers and scholars are [portrayed] as redneck-style hatemongers. <br />Some Christians have questioned the Talmud as it relates to Jewish religious practice and belief. This author obviously does not know much about the Talmud, because he says that it does not mention Christ. In fact, the Talmud uses metaphors in several places for Christ and takes credit for His crucifixion without even mentioning the Romans.<br />Overall, this book is a concoction that serves the purpose of the demonization of Christians and the beatification of Jews. This is not to say that Jews have not suffered unfairly at the hands of Christians in certain instances, but by no means are they always innocent and Christians always guilty.	2003-03-09
US	35854103	R2C7V36Y7IXCHR	006092652X	948670694	The Sacred Chain: History of the Jews, The	Books	3	36	44	N	Y	This book is both really good and really bad.	SACRED CHAIN is a fun book to read for anyone interested in history, and especially the influence that religion and economics has had in it.  The book is very well written and surprisingly lucid and easy to follow, not a single part of it was uninteresting.  What the SACRED CHAIN represents is the pure, unmitigated view of Establishment history.  There are few in the sea as hypocritical as this fish.  Cantor's analysis and summary of 3,000 years of Jewish history is interpreted in only two ways: Marx's dialectic materialism and whether or not a social movement, religion, government, etc. was beneficial to the Jews economically.<br />Cantor explains everything in Marxist terms--that all events and ideas in history are shaped by an individual's or group's economic status.  And anything is good as long as it helped the Jews in general.  Communist leader Trotsky/Bronstein is lauded as being an avenger of the Jews upon the peasants of the pro-Czarist Christians of the Ukraine.  But earlier on, it is acknowledged that these peasants actually had legitamate grievances against Jews in the region that provoked a pogrom in earlier centuries.  Another example is where Cantor praises Jewish anthropologist Franz Boas as being the foremost propagator of the idealogy that all races and cultures of mankind are equal, but on the next page Cantor goes on about the Jews' \\"superior genes,\\" and his belief that \\"Jews have to be better than everyone else.\\"  Cantor is in constant awareness of \\"anti-Semitism,\\" and references to the Holocaust can be found on every page.  He even accuses the authors of the New Testament Gospels of being hatemongers who would have had no problem if their writings inspired the Holocaust.  As for the scattered Jewish communities around the globe in the latter half of the twentieth century, Cantor judges their worth by how much they did to stop the Holocaust.<br />For a social policy, he likes to see non-Jews following free-market capitalism and moral relativism.  But as for Jews, he wants them to be racially conscious (he figures the intermarraige rate of Jews with non-Jews a type of \\"Holocaust\\"), and devoted to (some) of their old traditions and religion.  Cantor's analysis of the Bible period is terrible, because he does not cite any sources to where he gets his information, so the book is one long Norman Cantor's opinion of everything.  In fact, on the back cover, a review is quoted praising Cantor for not concealing his biases.  This stands in sharp contrast to a writer from any other ethnic group.  Imagine if someone were to write a biased history of the Anglo-Saxons of Britain and Germany, and after catalouging their history and speculating on their religious outlook, philosophy and technical achievements, said that white Anglo-Saxons were just \\"better than anybody else?\\"  Again the liberal double standard applies in writing the history books.<br />SACRED CHAIN is intentionally biased, praised for it.  It is well worth reading, because some the massive influence of the Jews upon the West is catalouged, but take every statement Cantor makes with a couple grains of salt.ism.  But as for Jews, he wants them to be racially conscious (he figures the intermarraige rate of Jews with non-Jews a type of \\"Holocaust\\"), and devoted to (some) of their old traditions and religion.  Cantor's analysis of the Bible period is terrible, because he does not cite any sources to where he gets his information, so the book is one long Norman Cantor's opinion of everything.  In fact, on the back cover, a review is quoted praising Cantor for not concealing his biases.  This stands in sharp contrast to a writer from any other ethnic group.  Imagine if someone were to write a biased history of the Anglo-Saxons of Britain and Germany, and after catalouging their history and speculating on their religious outlook, philosophy and technical achievements, said that white Anglo-Saxons were just \\"better than anybody else?\\"  Again the liberal double standard applies in writing the history books.<br />SACRED CHAIN is intentionally biased, praised for it.  It is well worth reading, because some the massive influence of the Jews upon the West is catalouged, but take every statement Cantor makes with a couple grains of salt.	2003-03-02
US	35854103	R16L126ZD925Z9	0911038825	304561390	Behind Communism	Books	5	68	75	N	N	The How, Why and Who of international Communism.	This stapleback pamphlet gives a summarized history of Communism, the Bolshevik/Communist Party in Russia, and Communist infiltration of American society and its institutions.  The subject delineated here is the massive Jewish involvement in Communism.  The author posists that the whole movement is a Jewish racial cause, with some gentile followers.  BEHIND COMMUNISM is full of pictures, lists and diagrams showing who the Communists are.  The top-dog Communist leaders, Lenin and Stalin are gentiles, but they were married to Jewish wives.  Stalin is always portrayed as a virulent \\"anti-Semite\\" and pogromist, but he was married to the daughter of the Politiburo member Kaganovitch, and Stalin's daughter was married to Kaganovitch's son.  Soviet Forign Minister Molotov's wife was also Jewish.  In fact, she was the sister of Karp, owner of Karp's Import-Export Company in Bridgeport, Connecticut.<br />The latter part discusses the Communist Party in America, which had a disproportionate Jewish membership and whose members were highly educated professionals rather than working-class men.  Many of those convicted of selling nuclear secrets to the Soviet Union were Jewish, such as the Rosenburgs.  Finally the Hollywood film industry is shown as the world's leading producer of Communist propaganda.  The author explains how Hollywood films are designed to cause race-hatred among black and Mexican minorities and at the same time instill whites with a sense of guilt about race relations.  There are some instances where the author makes inapropriate remarks, but these are minimal.  The tone is relativly balanced, maintaining a pro-Christian, pro-European viewpoint.<br />In all, BEHIND COMMUNISM rails against the romanticism that liberals attribute to the Russian Revoloution.  When the Jewish Communists took power in Russia, all H-E-double-hockey-sticks broke loose.  Tens of thousands of Christians were massacred, and five million landowners in the Ukraine were intentionally starved to death during the early 1930's to solidify Communist dominance and freedom of Religion was abolished.	2003-03-02
US	35854103	R2L9PZ2SM8N1I7	1585090921	962601808	Secret Societies and Subversive Movements	Books	5	59	68	N	N	Excellent explanation of the Conspiracy Theory of History	SECRET SOCIETIES by historian Nesta Webster is an excellent book if the topics of conspiracy theories, mind control, occult doctrines being imposed throughout the world and the notorious Jewish question happen to interest the reader.  Webster remains very scholarly and does not jump to conclusions too hastily without examining the evidence first.  She occupies an unusal position.  She is Christian, but is opposed to the \\"neoconservatives\\" of her day as lacking the spirit to get her nation, Britain, back on track.  Today she would probably occupy the position of Pat Buchannan.  She also does not condemn Eastern religions and Islam the way most fundamentalist Christians today do.  She recognizes the validity of their religious spokesment through time, but still believes that Jesus is God speaking most clearly to man.<br />The history of secret societies is traced from ancient Egypt, Persia, to the life of Christ, and on down to the point after the Russian Revoloution.  The list of groups is endless: Gnostics, Manicheans, Assassins, Knights Templar, Rosicrucians, Freemasons, Illuminati, Grand Orient Freemasonry to the Marx inspired socialists, anarchists, and communists.  The Illuminati and the pseudo-Muslim Assassins are considered the best models of how secret societies operate.  Some secret groups however, have not tried to combat revealed truth or well-ordered society, such as the Essenes, Jesuits and the British Masons (the Grand Orient ones from Europe are the bad ones).  <br />As to the massive force behind the societies, Webster first takes and anti-German stance and investigates if the Germans are responsible, since the societies have damaged France and Britain and helped spread German nationalism.  Although the Germans have used Freemasons, Illuminati, international bankers and Jews in order to further their national agenda, Webster points out the Jewish element as overriding the German one. Underlying many of these forces is the influence of the Jewish Cabalists.  Webster documents the inordinate amount of influence that Jews have had over secret societies and of their doctrines in the Cabala and Jewish belief in their status of the \\"chosen people.\\"  She wrestles with the question of wether or not the Jews have been consciously involved in a millenia-old-conspiracy to destroy Christianity and its followers and whether or not the PROTOCOLS OF ZION is a forgery.  She leans toward accepting the PROTOCOLS as legitemate and in this regard.  Zionism was emerging as a potent political movement at the time this book was written and it is commented upon.<br />If you are trying to figure out how the world and the groups that work to change the world (for the worse, usually) then I can't reccomend this book enough.  It is objective and even-keeled the whole way through.  Learn why socialist policy is a sham.	2003-02-25
US	35854103	R2OSYNLZATKY07	0932050247	513226559	The Six-Pointed Star: Its Origin and Usage	Books	4	53	55	N	N	Hexagram History 101.	I took off a star because of the book's format.  It is too small and reading a theological/historical treatise should not be as difficult as reading Audobon's mini Field Guide to Birds.<br />The book's thesis is a valid and little known one that needs more widespread explanation, however.  The Magen David/Star of David/Seal of Solomon/Hexagram is NOT of Jewish origin, but instead finds its origin in pagan idolatry towards Ashtoreth which was adopted by Israel's king Solomon in defiance of God's commandments.  The six pointed star was used in Gnostic and even Islamic artwork and symbolism before it came to use amoung Jews.  It was adopted by Cabalists who got their beliefs from the earlier heretic Gnostics who believed the God of the Old Testament was evil and worshipped Lucifer.  Issac Luria was a Cabalist who popularized it in the sixteenth century and it was used on a coat of arms by the banking family of Rothschild.  Further on down the line the hexagram was utilized as the symbol for Zionism and became the emblem of the Israeli flag.  <br />Much of the controversy surrounds the star's meaning.  Jews claim that it was actually used by king David in the Bible, but in fact it may have been named after other Davids in history who were popular Jewish leaders.  Also proposed is that the triangle pointing up represents God and the triangle pointing downward represents man.  The symbolism is, however, a Cabalistic representation of the opposing forces (like the Eastern Yin Yang) that involves sexual congress and the loss of difference between male and female.  It can also be a simplification of the more complex symbol that represents the Zodiac.  The hexagram has the code for the Beast of Revelation in it--6 sides clockwise, 6 counter-clockwise, and 6 sides that form a hexagon in the middle of the figue.  As a note, the author points out that the number six represents imperfection in the Bible, as opposed to seven which represents the fullness of God and His creation.	2003-02-19
US	35854103	R1OJFSNQGDBSYQ	0963687700	169855996	The Secret Relationship Between Blacks and Jews	Books	5	67	91	N	N	The Stars and Bars and the Star of David.	I fail to see how this book has been targeted as a vessel carrying \\"racist or anti-Semitic\\" propaganda.  It likely offends certain sensibilities because of the research dug up and documented.  Bear in mind that this has less to do with the Nation of Islam than with research and the publishing of those results; the only reference to Islam is the phrase \\"All Praise is Due to Allah,\\" on the title page.  Furthermore, there is minimal evidence of a victim mentality in the presentation of this information.  I fail to see how this could be sloppy scholarship because the hundreds of sources used are catalouged, quoted, extensivly commented upon and legitimate.  Most of the SECRET RELATIONSHIP'S detractors likely haven't sat down to actually read it and decide for themselves because of their predjudices.  In fact, the book that condemns this one gets better advertising.<br />THE SECRET RELATIONSHIP is about the Jewish involvement in the black African slave trade from the middle ages to Reconstruction after the American Civil War.  Jews were either heavily influential or dominated the New World cash-crop commerce which was the harbringer of slavery in the American colonies.  In country after country this is documented: Brazil, Suriname, Guyana, Jamacia, Curacao, Barbados, Hispanola, the soutern American colonies, etc.  A disproportionate amount of the financiers of the Dutch India Company and in Newport, Rhode Island (who funded slave ships and voyages to Africa) were from prominient Jewish families.  During the Civil War most Jews either supported the Confederacy and very few condemned the enslavement of Africans, which they deemed inferior to the light-skinned races.  One of the most influential Jews in American history was Confederate Secretary of War Judah P. Benjamin.  Jews also participated in the Confederates' secret diplomacy with European powers.  The final section of the SECRET RELATIONSHIP gives a list of Jews involved in the opression of Africans along with historical and biographical information about them.  Once again tradtional Establishment history errs by blaming white Christians as soley responsible for the slave trade.  Only 30% of whites/Christians who lived in the south owned black slaves, while 70% of the Jews there did.  Also recommended: THEY WERE WHITE AND THEY WERE SLAVES by Michael Hoffman.	2003-02-17
US	35854103	R9R3DZCBKZW4N	0684824299	318460719	Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life (A Free Press Paperbacks Book)	Books	5	34	53	N	N	An Absoloutely Wonderful Book!	THE BELL CURVE has drawn an extreme amount of criticism because of the facts revealed within.  I would not say that these are revealed, but most people already know deep down that they are true.  BELL CURVE merely verbalizes them and puts them up to statistical analysis.  One of the authors, Murray, says in his Afterword that BELL CURVE was authored in a moderate tone.  This is completely true.  In fact as I have read a commentator write that this book \\"bends over backward\\" to avoid what many would consider \\"incendiary\\" statemants.  What makes this book so controversial?  Why do its detractors call it \\"Neo-Nazi Propaganda,\\" a term which is used to denigrate anything that seems out of line with any group's stated beliefs and idealogy? <br />1. Intellegence Quotient (IQ) is much more important in determining one's socio-economic status, academic performance, illegitimacy, and likelyhood of criminal behavior than one's environment.<br />2.  IQ is genetic.  It is likely more hereditary than caused by environment.  IQ is estimated at being between 40-80% inherited from one's parents.  The authors estimate it from their data at being around 60% hereditary.<br />3.  IQ scores differ substantially along racial and ethnic lines.  <br />4.  The average white IQ is around 100.  The average black and Hispanic IQ is at an 85.  This places the average black or Hispanic at the 16th percentile of the white IQ range.  This means that the average black or Hispanic is a standard deviation (a lot in layman's terms) lower in IQ than the average white.<br />5.  East Asians (specifically Japanese, Chinese and Korean) score slightly higher than whites, but the extent of this difference is not well known.  Asians have better visual-spatial scores while whites have better verbal scores than Asians.  <br />Those above five points I summarized after studying the evidence from this book.  I was very intrigued to find that Ashkenazi (Eastern European) Jews are identified as the highest achieversof any ethnicity on IQ tests, having the best scores in verbal intellegence, and being placed a standard deviation above the white mean of 100.  This book is a goldmine of statistical data on the difference between people with different levels of intelligence.  In fact, only about fifty of this book's five-hundred seventy pages deal with difference between races.  The authors are very careful to avoid discussing racial issues and are able to treat the subject with extreme detachment.  The fact is, it is not \\"racism\\" if it is true.  It is simply objective fact.  The book was written so that it should appeal to leftists, that everyone should be given a fair chance based on individual ability, not being given undue \\"affirmative action\\" simply based on one's racial backround.  Read THE BELL CURVE, and enjoy.	2003-01-29
US	35854103	R3VUY8AJW0S7KR	0317532456	367752333	Israel Our Duty Our Dilemma	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Everything you wanted to know about the Pharisees.	ISRAEL OUR DUTY OUR DILEMMA addresses many questions Christians have about who the Pharisees are.  The Pharisees were the religious leaders that Jesus condemned as being 'hypocrites,' a 'den of vipers,' and 'children of an adulterious generation.'  You get the picture.<br />During the Babylonian captivity, some of the Israelites caught on to the magical and occult practices and religion of the Chaldeans.  They did not like how the Bible, especially the Law of Moses and the Prophets, condemned thier adulteries and idolatries and witchcraft.  They developed secret oral traditions seemingly based on the Bible, but the Bible was interpreted using numerology which was studying the numerical value of the Hebrew letters in the text was supposed to give the true meaning of Scripture rather than its literal, in-your-face meaning.  These teachers and leaders of many of the Israelites, called Pharisees, developed the Kabbalah, which they said was delivered to Moses on Sinai but given to Aaron and the priestly succcession. They also developed the Mishnah and Talmud which Moses was supposed to have given to Joshua, and Joshua passed it on to the prophets, the prophets to the teachers of the law and then to the Rabbis.  Jesus denounced their oral law of the Talmud and was crucified for exposing their ways of nullifying God's Law.<br />Jesus indicted the Pharisees of 'going across seas to make a single convert, but once you do so, you make him twice a child of hell as yourselves.'  The Rabbis from Babylon, at the invitation of the King of the Khazars, converted the oriental Khazar tribe en masse to Judaism in the 700's and 800's.  These 'Jews' of Khazaria are today's Ashkenazi Jews from Eastern Europe.<br />Most of todays Jews are descended from the Khazars.  Yiddish was the language that the Khazars spoke, with a mixture of Hebrew and German words.  In the 1300's the Khazar kingdom was dissolved and its Jews moved westward into Russia and Poland.<br />This books documents the destructive movements that Jews have been involved in and how they have been very detrimental to Christian civilization.  Pike mentions their control over the media from which much anti-Christian propaganda is disseminated, their leadership role in international Communism, which was the most lethal idealogy in history, and in Zionism.  Today's Israeli leadership is in the hand of Ashkenazis, who were heavily influenced by Marxist ideals from Europe.<br />A final interesting point this book makes is the need for a constant stream of wars to be fought in the Middle East since the founding of Israel in 1948.  They take place every ten years or so in a predictable cycle:  1956, 1967, 1973, 1982, 1991 (Persian Gulf) and 2001/2003? (US 'War on Terrorism').<br />One final note: disregard this author's end of the world predictions.  They are too speculative and interrupt the otherwise excellent flow of this book.  I highly recommend that the reader take a look at 'the Gospel According to the Jews' where the modern occult ideas surrounding Jesus come from.	2003-01-23
US	35854103	RQJHWTJZRUNBL	0849933943	578730978	The New World Order	Books	4	17	34	N	N	Explains anti-Christian conspiracy, but makes key errors	THE NEW WORLD ORDER explains the forces that are behind the erosion of traditional Christian society and beliefs the around the world over the past 250 years.  The Freemasons, Adam Weishaupt, the Communist movements, the Council on Foriegn Relations, the United Nations and the Trilateral Commission are explained and their role are documented.  Pat points out the living truth that there were two sytems of belief that are mentiond in the Bible.  One was Abraham, who was called and given the covenant with God that through his seed, CHRIST, the world would be blessed.  The opponent to this was the King of Babylon, Nimrod, who built the tower of Babel that tried to reach heaven and become omnipotent.  Abraham represents God's preordained purpose for man, while Babylon represents man's conscious human will trying to place itself up as God.  Robertson makes many statements that question George Bush's actions in the Persian Gulf.  All the world's nations were united against Saddam Hussein, dictator of Iraq, and Iraq is where the ancient city of Babylon is located.  This is also where Bush used the phrase \\"New World Order.\\"  It comes as no consequence that George W. Bush plans to attack Iraq as we speak.  The occult forces that are plotting to take over the world and wipe out Christianity would appear to want as their capital city Babylon, the city that has oppressed God's people, as it was in the days of old.  <br />Robertson makes some errors in this book that don't actually play out.  He says that the United Nations will lead an attack on Israel.  This is ABSOLOUTELY NOT TRUE.  The United States uses its power to dictate to the UN, and the UN Security Council provides a rubber stamp on US and Israeli international aims.  Robertson fails miserably in recognizing who the internationist conspirators are.  They come from all nations, races and religions, but are being controlled by elements in the organized Jewish community (the Pharisees that Jesus condamned as \\"hypocrites\\"), and are following the plan as outlined in the PROTOCOLS OF THE LEARNED ELDERS OF ZION.  Robertson hopes to inspire fear in his readers by saying the UN occupations forces from third world countries would invade America, loot us and destroy our infrastructure and society.  It is the banking interests, high finance and mulit-national corperations who are looting us, and there is no need for the UN to invade America from the third world because the US government which is in the palm of corperate interests, allows for mass immigration (legal AND illegal) into the US.  This works against the interest of the American working class and traditional culture without ANY armed coercion.	2003-01-23
US	35854103	R3L1617OS933AY	157673496X	363795451	Is America in Bible Prophecy? (Signs of the Times Series)	Books	1	8	34	N	N	Christian Zionism	The question that this book asks it whether or not American appears in Bible prophecy.  It does not, the author concludes after giving an exgesis and refutation of Bible passages that some claim that the Bible predicts America in the future.  Why is that?  The author says that America isn't mentioned in the Bible because the prophecies that describe the Earth's \\"latter days\\" and \\"tribulation\\" take place after the Rapture.  Most Americans will be taken up in the Rapture (the most escapist notion ever concieved short of suicide) and then since America looses so much of its population, it is absorbed by the European Union, which isn't weakened by the rapture because fewer Europeans are as ignorant and Biblically illiterate.  After the rapture a supposed conversion will take place amoung 144,000 thousand Jews in Isreal who will witness for Christ because of the absence of the evangelical Christians.  This book perpetuates the myth that Jews are God's \\"chosen people,\\" which is a universal belief among 'fundamentalist' Christians today.  The author says we are supposed to support Israel through its struggles, despite the fact that our policy of supporting Israel is what causes so much hatred of the United States around the world.  The Bible says that the only name under heaven by which we are saved is \\"Jesus Christ\\", and not \\"Jew\\" or \\"Israel.\\"	2003-01-23
US	35854103	R1U5KGJJE3K9JI	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Objective, Ubiased look at the Taliban movement.	Everything you ever wanted to know about pre 9/11 Afghan politics.  What makes this book so informative is that it was written BEFORE the September 11 attacks, and by a Muslim journalist who has an intimate knowledge of the region that he is reporting about.  It is sometimes technical, but it gives the history of the Taliban movement (Taliban actually means \\"seeker of truth\\" or \\"religious student\\"), warlords who fought against the Taliban like Masood and Dostum, and all of Afghanistan's feuding tribal groups like the Pushtun (where most Taliban came from), Hazara, Uzbek and Tajiks.  There is no such thing as an 'Afghan.'  Afghanistan is a mish-mash country that forces people of different tribes, ethnicities and religions together in a single political entity where they feud among each other for land and political power.  This book reveals that the Taliban's support came from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, two countries that are US allies.  The US through agents in the Pakistani intellegence service, Interservice Intellegence (ISI) which constitutes a state-within-a-state in Pakistan, and people in Saudi Arabia.  Many oil companies were vying for the Taliban's affection because a pipeline through Afghanistan would allow Central Asia's massive oil resources to be sent to ports in Pakistan.  ...  The Taliban is a classic case of this.  ...	2003-01-23
US	35854103	R32ABHNTKEUXJU	0922915784	397776643	Extreme Islam: Anti-American Propaganda of Muslim Fundamentalism	Books	5	9	16	N	N	It's a better idea to be objective and not in a "haze."	The title of this book is somewhat misleading.  Most of the \\"propaganda\\" is not propaganda at all but facts that document the absurd rulings and dictates of various factions of Islam such as the Taliban, Osama bin Laden, Moammar Khaddafy, the Ayatollah Khomeini, Yassir Arafat and of course Saddam Hussein.  Included are speeches by Arafat and Khomeini, an e-mail from Hussein to an American citizen, Osama's fatwas calling for jihad against Americans, an interview with Mullah Omar, a list of Taliban restictions against women, Hitler's promises to the Mufti of Jerusalem during WWII, and excerpts from Khaddafy's GREEN BOOK.  Also here are various conspiracy theories, and directions on how to perform Islamic rituals and Islamic way of life.<br />The \\"propaganda\\" contained here are not so much against the American people, but rather against the American-supported State of Israel which occupies Palestine.  <br />Some of the materials are here for sheer shock value while others are simply political observations of the Palestine conflict and other West vs. East issues in the Muslim world.  Few of these articles share the same viewpoint, and most sound like they have nothing to do with each other.  Several, if read OBJECTIVELY, and not simply as examples of how crazy Muslim fundamentalists are, will provide useful information as to how the world works.  That is obviously not the intention of the mass distribution of this book however--its attempt was to reinforce readers' predjudices against some aspects of Islam.  Should this be the case, it failed with me.	2003-01-20
US	35854103	R2502EB7KRQWRA	094437929X	86622779	You Gentiles	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Brings up some important issues but somewhat mistaken.	YOU GENTILES is about Maurice Samuel's percieved differences between Jews and Gentiles.  This is true however it is looked at, but I am uncertain if \\"Gentiles\\" here means Western-Europeans only or anyone who is not Jewish, so this adds to the book's confusion considering the orientation of the publishers and distributers of this book.<br />Samuel says in his conclusion that he \\"may have erred here and there.\\" In fact Samuel errs a lot.  He repeats the myth that the Jews are the chosen Israelits of the Old Testament, and that the characters and events in the Bible are of the utmost importance to Jews.  This more readily applies to Christians.  Also, Samuel says the Jews are harshly bound down and follow the creed of monotheism while the gentiles are polytheistic (Read JEWISH HISTORY, JEWISH RELIGION by Israel Shahak which rebukes both these claims).  <br />Samuel criticizes the way gentiles look at life--as a kind of sport or game.  Furthermore, nothing makes gentile happier then when thier nation goes to war (witness the glee and excitement that followed when the US bombed Afghanistan).  I come closer (like another reviewer here) to the Jewish mentality in these regards: that life is Dead Serious, to \\"lack vitality,\\" and only fight when one needs to (which includes having a God of War).<br />But Samuel also shows where Jews come into conflict with gentiles, and how the gentiles make spurious claims against them: usury, the blood libel, etc.  Samuel claims that these things are made up by \\"anti-semites\\" to persecute Jews, but further investigation and research into them proves some of the \\"anti-semitic\\" claims to not be completely baseless.<br />I liked the part where Samuel castigates those who believe that objective science can prove spiritual truths and give us a meaning of life.  Sure the moon may be a quarter million miles from earth, but what spiritual insight does this dry figure give?<br />At the end, Maurice admits one thing: \\"Whatever we do we are damned--and I would rather be damned standing up rather than lying down.\\"  I could not agree with Mr. Samuel more.	2003-01-18
US	35854103	R2RCLQR6CSEKDD	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Asymetrical Warfare?	Gore Vidal writes a very thought-provoking book here.  Its first section deals with the 9/11 terrorist attacks.  Vidal documents the military operations that the US has engaged in throughout the world.  He points out that methods of battle that the hijackers used are commonly used by the opressed against the strong.  Islamic Fundamentalists have very little to say in how the world is run, except when they take to the streets in rowdy protests or blow themselves up.  The people in the Pentagon and World Trade Centers are amoung the most powerful, if not the MOST powerful in the world.  The corperate media has been portraying the War on Terror as a version of David and Goliath--we are the Jolly, Friendly Good Goliath versus the Mean, Bratty Evil David.    Most of PERTETUAL WAR, is however, about Vidal's involvement and analysis of Timothy McVeigh and the Oklahoma City Bombing.  Vidal gives the reasons for McVeigh's attack instead of labeling him as a crazy psychopath who just wanted to murder dozens of people for kicks.  He examines the actual government abuses that drove McVeigh--such as IRS abuses, the massacre at Waco, and government gun control.  He even gives support for the farmers who were driven off thier land by foreclosures, and against corperate agribusiness.  But Vidal remains somewhat inconclusive here about the Murrah incident.  He gives three possible theories for the OK City Bombing: It was just McVeigh acting for his own \\"exaggerated sense of justice\\" (something Vidal praises in McVeigh while noting it is absent in most Americans), that McVeigh did the bombing at the behest of government agents which would then justify further legislation against personal freedom by the government, and another theory that in addition to the truck full of fertilizer, there were other explosives rigged at the Murrah building and that the ATF had advance warning.	2003-01-18
US	35854103	R3LAXTCBKPJLJ2	0720607507	928936413	Great Sex Divide: A Study of Male-Female Differences	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Puts to rest a good deal of nonsense.  Very interesting.	This book deals about the differences between males and females and why the two sexes think and behave in different ways.  Wilson, from Darwinist evoloutionary theory, proves that the differences are ordained genetically because males and females have different roles to play in the reproduction of the human species.  This fires the cannon through feminist theories that the sexes are the same.  The sexes are not the same, but there is no issue of equality involved because the sexes have both strong and weak points in different areas.<br />Men are more agressive, prone to anger, more sexually adventurous, have better visuo-spatial skills and are slightly smarter.  Women are more passive, conservative in thier sexual behavior, empathetic, caring and take a more subjective view of life.  These, of course are generalizations, not the exceptions, as the author notes.<br />At the end of the book, it seems that men come off as smarter, more intellegent and in control than women.  But the author is free to admit that women are morally superior to men, because it is the male drive towards crime and agression that is the fault of most social problems and wars.  Feminism does have legitamite claims, but it is dead wrong by postulating that \\"society\\" forces males and females to act certain ways when these are dictated by simple biological function.  Feminists should make thier case by appealing to senses of morals and honor towards females rather than making dictates based on faulty scientific theory.	2003-01-16
US	35854103	R12ZY6HKPEHLXJ	1881867056	208624204	Vigilantes of Christendom: The History of the Phineas Priesthood	Books	3	11	18	N	N	Seriously flawed but somewhat informative.	First, I will explain why I took two stars off. _Vigilantes_ does promote white-supremacist idealogy, and the book is more of a long history lesson than the theological treatise I was looking for. It is a veritible Who's Who of the 'Politically Incorrect': The Crusaders, American colonists who killed off the Indians, the white settlers who were massacred in Haiti, the Confederacy, whites in South Africa, Hilter, Nazi Germany and the Waffen SS.      But what is interesting is Hoskins' concept of &quot;knowing God.&quot; Since the Gospel declares that &quot;In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and THE WORD WAS GOD,&quot; the way we know God is to follow the Law. He says that the actual appearence of the leader is of little importance (how important is the literal fact of the Burning Bush talking to Moses or Jesus teaching on the Mount to us right now?) but that we know God through following his Laws. Everyone can do pretty much what he wants, as long as the Laws, Statutes and Judgements of the WORD is strictly enforced. Sounds like a good deal to me.      Hoskins develops the concept of a 'Phineas Priesthood', Christians who resort to violence to make sure that God's will is done. He builds up this concept by a reading of Numbers 25 (where the Priest Phineas kills and Isrealite prince and a heathen Moabite princess as they were about to have intercourse), Psalms 106 (where Phineas is eulogized) and Ezekiel 9 (which is taken as a literal instruction as a method of organizing a 'cell' to fight and destroy the ungodly). There is nothing new in this concept, as Hoskins proves. There are the Japanese Kamikazes who crashed planes into battleships, Muslim Jihadis who crash planes into buildings and blow themselves up according to the literal instructions of the Koran, and there are Zionists like Baruch Goldstein follow the Law of the Talmud to make sure that gentiles get exterminated.      What I found particularly interesting were the characters who were identified as 'Phineas Priests':   -Biblical heroes Ehud, Jael and the Maccabees   -St. George who slew the Dragon (a symbol of the Devil's power)   -Beowulf, who slew the Dragon that was stealing his land of its wealth   -King Arthur, who started a war because his wife committed adultery with Lancelot.   -Crusader Orders, like the Templars, Hospitallars and the Teutonic Knights who briefly put Jerusalem in Christian hands.   -Robin Hood, who fought against King John's heavy taxes   -William Wallace, of _Braveheart_ fame.      One more note: How many Christians have heard of the Apocrypha, Jasher, Josephus, Enoch, or Jubilees? Hoskins blows the dust off of these forgotten texts and makes them useful as supplementary to the Bible. More research is needed as to why the Apocrypha was deleted from the King James Bible in 1825. Hoskins speculates that it is because of the strong support of the Law in these books that they were given the heave-hoe.	2003-01-12
US	35854103	R2MX7H1UOVMJSZ	0451527100	201213691	The Communist Manifesto (Signet Classics)	Books	2	7	14	N	N	How's the Dictatorship of the Proletariat coming??	THE COMMUNIST MANIFESTO basically states that the workers (Proletariat) are being more and more exploited by the middle and upper-class (Bougeoise, if that's how it is spelled), and that in order to end the class struggle, the Proleteriat must overthrow the Bougeoise by any means necessary, including violence.<br />Several highly destructive social-planning ideas are put forth, such as the abolition of private property, marraige and inheritance rights.  When inplemented in an actual real-life scenario, they create a populaton that is lazy, self-degrading, without any hold on thier traditional culture or former standards of honor, morality or history and its harsh and brutal lessons.  Furthermore, human consiousness cannot make everyone equal.  The forces of nature did not make everyone equal in all abilities, mental and physical.  Not to mention, there are basic biological differences between men and women that will always show up even when an environment is created to try to surpress them.  What makes a Communist movement suspicious is that it will be joined by members of the Bougeoise to lead it.  This seems to point to raging masses of people being manipulated by powerful people behind the scenes who are using Communist idealogy for their own ends.<br />But there is one redeeming point about this book, which is why I gave it two stars:  If it has been an genuine inspiration of sorts for people to fight and die against unfair oppressors, and to altruistically strive to better their lives, then it has some value on a humanistic scale.	2003-01-10
US	35854103	R1QAE5MKKXR089	0934666075	40507018	Book of Jubilees: From the Ethiopic (Little Genesis)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	As it is written on the Tablets in Heaven....	On the whole, this book is not very fun to read, much like the Bible, BUT IT MUST BE READ.  JUBILEES was written as an exposition of the Mosaic Law, and it gives examples of sin and transgression from Genesis in order to justify the Law that was revealed to Moses on Mount Sinai.  It does indeed draw upon the Book of ENOCH and JUBILEES itself is found in the Canon of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church along with ENOCH.  In fact chapter IV, 16-19 of JUBILEES eulogizes Enoch, crediting him with being the first one to learn the gift of writing and to write a testimony.<br />All the classical doctrines are found in JUBILEES.  One is of predestination and the eternity of the Word.  Rev. George Schode writes, &quot;He [the author of JUBILEES] again and again maintains the Thesis that the law existed from eternity, although revealed in full through Moses; that even in heaven, before the creation, the angels observed the festivals, services and ceremonies of the law; that throughout thier lives the patriarchs all strictly carried out its behests.  All these things were written on the 'tablet in heaven,' and were gradually introduced among the pious fathers as occasion offered an oppurtunity, and the teachings concerning them were laid down in writing at the very beginning.&quot;  <br />Indeed the idea that God DETERMINED who is redeemed and who is not is elucidated here XV, 22-23: &quot;...and he chose Israel [Christians] to be his people.  And he sanctified it and and collected it from among all the children of men, for there are many nations and many peoples, and all are his, and OVER ALL HE HAS APPOINTED SPIRITS TO RULE, that they should LEAD THEM ASTRAY FROM HIM, but over Israel he did not appoint any ruler, neither an angel or spirit, but HE ALONE IS THEIR RULER, and he contends for them against the hands of his angels and his spirits and all; and they shall keep his commandments...&quot;<br />The reader will also find of interest the comments on the behavior of the Patriarchs of Genesis, where they are condemned in JUBILEES whereas their sins are not condemned in the Bible.	2003-01-10
US	35854103	R3T6RRA2ETUXWX	0849028612	890490562	Germany must perish!	Books	1	48	61	N	N	This makes perfect sense.	GERMANY MUST PERISH is the prime example of the anti-German sentiment that was being propagated in the United States before World War II.  The author was a member of the American Jewish Congress.<br />To keep a long story short, every thing said against the Germans here was said by Hitler against the Jews--believing they are a \\"master race,\\" trying to take over the world, being barbarous and anti-christian, engaging in cospiracies to start wars, etc...<br />The author calls for the mass sterilization of all German men under the age of sixty and all the women under the age of forty five in revenge for Germany starting wars throughout its history.<br />-\\"A sensational idea!\\" by Times Magazine<br />-\\"A Provocotave theory--interestingly presented\\" by Washington Post<br />-\\"A plan for permanent peace among civilized nations!\\" by New York Times<br />-\\"Frankly presents the dread backround of the Nazi soul\\" by Philadelphia Record<br />A map at the back shows German and Austrian territory given to its neighbors Holland, France, \\"Czechia,\\" Denmark, Poland and Belgium.<br />This was released in February 1941 in the United States, before US involvement in WWII.  This was before reports of the Holocaust in Europe.	2003-01-08
US	35854103	RZQHICW0B4BYO	1579106056	580668605	The Apocalypse of Baruch: Translated From the Syriac	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A beacon for the Wise and Prudent	THE APOCALYPSE OF BARUCH is a lost Holy Book.  It is the vision of Baruch (Secretary to the Prophet Jeremiah) before and after the destruction of Jerusalem by the armies of Babylon.  <br />The word APOCALYPSE literally means an &quot;unveiling,&quot; or explanation of something that was previously unclear.  BARUCH is truly an apocalypse in this sense, because it elucidates some of the Bible's history and interpretation.  This book is not very well known (obviously) and BARUCH says this to God: &quot;...but that few nations will be left in those times, to whom those words shall be said which Thou [God] didst say.&quot;  This is particularly true today since this text is rarely if ever studied by Christians of faith along with their Bibles, and it is not readily availible for study.  The edition I read is a reprint by R. H. Charles published by Destiny Publishers, not the edition advertised here.<br />The theological thought in this book is the same as in the Bible, and gives symbolic exposition of Biblical history.  The most interesting part is about the twelve waters: six black and six bright.  These waters correspond to different events in Biblical history.  The person that is lauded as the fifth bright water and given the greatest praise in BARUCH is King Josiah of Judah, who enforced the Law of Moses by force upon his apostate kingdom after he came to power.  The sixth bright (and final) water is the Word: the advent of the Christ/Messiah who will usher in the New Covenant of the Church.  Later on, the sixth black water (as is happening today) the Church will be besought by all kinds of opposition and God will be slandered.  Finally God's Messiah comes and He will reckon with the world's nations, some to be spared and some to be slain.  The Messiah's kingdom will be one of joy, peace, triumph and no anxiety.<br />These same prophesies are in the Bible, but the APOCALYPSE OF BARUCH will give the Christian some supplementary ways of interpreting them and how they will come about.	2003-01-05
US	35854103	RFZUT3GDC7LNL	0922915555	954732039	The X-Rated Bible: An Irreverent Survey of Sex in the Scriptures	Books	2	17	57	N	N	Pink Propaganda	This book is merely an attempt to discredit the Bible because it contains some passages that refer to sexual activities of some kind or another.  <br />Mowever, the author's tone in the book is atrocious--he jumps from one conclusion to the next, complete with vulgar and slanderous language, without giving any context in which the passages are interpreted or what their potential meaning is.  He doesn't recognize who the ancient Hebrews are, except that he calls them an ignorant, mysogynist, illeterate desert tribe who liked to boot goats around and had ridiculous superstitions regarding blood and spirits.  He also blames them of being homophobic barbarians, because it was necessary for the tribe to engage in heterosexual activity in order to propagate more children for its patriarchial ruling structure.  But the Bible itself says the Israelites frequently engaged in perverse sexual practices, which is why the laws were made to combat homosexual relations, bestiality and incest.  Scroll down and read ROBERT'S review too.<br />This book does contain a large amount of stories and information that the reader will find amusing and titillating, but it is not a serious scholarly refutation or exposition of lurid Biblical passages.  Some of the passages the author writes about here are allegories, because Israel was written about as a symbolic bride of God (they had an intimate covenant realationship, this is not literal, but an abstraction).  This book is more of a subjective rant against what the author considers ignorant, unenlightened, barbarian and unsophisticated because it doesn't agree with his beliefs or idealogy.	2003-01-05
US	35854103	RNYY1YK0A105H	0932813747	48092962	The Christ Conspiracy: The Greatest Story Ever Sold	Books	1	22	48	N	N	Christos Anesti!	The thesis of this book is to prove that the story of CHRIST in the gospels is a fictional story put together from sun, moon, astrological and pagan savior-god myths. Furthermore, this is supposed to be a &quot;Conspiracy&quot; (including the Emperor Constantine) to consolidate the Roman Empire's control of its eclectic populace. Archarya is not a newcomer in this theory, since a pamphlet by Abelard Reuchelin, &quot;The True Authorship of the New Testament,&quot; accuses the Piso family of Rome of doing the same thing.      Archarya tries to make her book look like a piece of &quot;free thought&quot; literature by denying belief in a certain supernatural being or beings. However, she remains biased when it comes to this standpoint, because she believes in astrology and pagan Earth-Goddess worship.      Furthermore, there is the accuracy of the gospel accounts that is debated. Just because they are so unfeasable a story does not mean that intelligent people don't believe them literaly. I recently saw an introduction to a discovery channel program about Jesus and it began by announcing that &quot;the Crucifixion is one of the most well-documented events in the ancient world. It is mentioned nearly eighty times in the New Testament and in the writings of Josephus.&quot; Archarya says these references were false or forged. But who is right and who is wrong? Thousands of years of traditional Christian scholarship, Archarya S, or the Discovery Channel?      Lastly this book poses a New Age conspiracy theory and belief that Christianity, the gospel story and the Bible are weapons used by the &quot;Establishment,&quot; to be the &quot;opiate of the people.&quot;   This is not the case. True Christianity is rarely if ever pro-Establishment. Currently the Establishment is leading the Jihad, Crusade, Holy War of Sanctification or whatever you want to call it against Christian belief and practice. Jesus Christ, John the Baptist, Ss. Peter and Paul, and all the Old Testament Prophets raged and fumed against the Establishment and its lusts, inhumanities, opressions, thefts, immoralities, and deception.	2003-01-04
US	35854103	R2SK9YDBKSDR0K	0529033852	932754288	Lost Books of the Bible and the Forgotten Books of Eden	Books	4	19	26	N	N	Essential Christian documents for study and contemplation.	First of all, I took off a star for the very poor print quality of this book.  It is poorly organized, hard to read, sometimes too small and crammed on the page.  The type needs to be reset in a modern font and format to make it easier to read and comprehend the works in this volume.<br />As far as the actual content in this book goes, it is very good and useful.  Most commentators and critics disparage and denigrate the \\"Pseudepigrahpa\\" because they were written at a much later time and by anomymous scribes who credited thier work to a hero or patriarch of the Bible, such as Enoch, Adam, Solomon, The Twelve Patriarchs, etc.<BR>  <BR>The editor makes a lot of excellent points in his INTRODUCTION to THE LOST BOOKS OF EDEN: \\"Writers sought to SHELTER THEMSELVES behind the names of the great dead.  In this THEY WERE GUILTY OF NO FRAUD.  They imagined what Solomon or Enoch would say upon a particular theme under given circumstances.  It was NOT REALLY THEY THEMSELVES, but THIER Enoch, Solomon, or Enoch IN THEM, who uttered the new prophesies or temple praises... that body of literature, called by modern scholars 'PSEUDEPIGRAPHA' that is, writings erronously, un-historically, YET SINCERELY ascribed to heroic figures summed up from the vasty deep by a SELF-DENYING imagination, eager to ALTER MAN'S BELIEF OR CUSTOM, to interpret his hope or sorrow, WITHOUT PERSONAL GAIN OR FAME, and also, may one add, WITHOUT THE DETERRENT OF PERSECUTION OT ARREST FREE UTTERANCE!\\"<br />\\"NOW IT IS A FOOLISH MODERN PREDJUDICE AGAINST AN ANCIENT PIECE OF LITERATURE THAT ITS AUTHOR VEILED HIS PERSON IN THIS FASHION.  The ONLY question is:  Was the writing of INHERENT VALUE?  DID IT EXERCISE INFLUENCE?<br />Some of these books are boring and a pain to get through, and some are innacurate to traditional Christain doctrine (THE ACTS OF PAUL AND THECLA as an example).  Some, like HERMAS are not worth reading.  <br />But I will take the words of \\"Enoch\\" in THE BOOK OF THE SECRETS OF ENOCH (the bestwork in this collection) literally:<br />\\"For the BOOKS ARE MANY and in them you will LEARN ALL THE LORD'S WORKS, all that has been from the beginning of Creation and will be to the end of time.  And if you OBSERVE MY HANDWRITING, you WILL NOT SIN AGAINST THE LORD, because there is no other except the Lord...\\"<BR>\\"And DISTRIBUTE THE BOOKS...amoungst the nations that have the sense to fear God, let them recieve them and MAY THEY COME TO LOVE THEM more than any food or EARTHLY SWEETS, and READ THEM and apply themselves to them.  And those who understand not the Lord, who fear not God, who ACCEPT NOT, but reject, who do not receive them (sc. THE BOOKS), A TERRIBLE JUDGEMENT AWAITS THESE.<BR>\\"BLESSED is the man who shall BEAR THIER YOKE and shall DRAG THEM ALONG, for he shall be released on the day of the great judgement.\\"	2003-01-04
US	35854103	R3G4QPYJQQ10DR	0929903056	352586350	They Were White and They Were Slaves: The Untold History of the Enslavement of Whites in Early America	Books	5	208	221	N	N	Much needed book in today's slavery debate	As other reviewers have noted, this book is a barrage of facts that are a little rambling and disorganized, but this in NO WAY takes away from the interest of the subject matter that is presented in this volume.<br />Mr. Hoffman presents a rough outline of the history of the enslavement of whites in Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, the Carribean and finally in America from Roman times to the begining of the 20th century.  Documented are such details as:<br />-Slavery in ancient Greece and attitudes towards slaves there<br />-Arab traffic in white slave to the Middle East<br />-The Vikings' massive involvement in the slave trade during the middle ages<br />-White slavery and ethnic-cleansing in Ireland and Barbados under Oliver Cromwell<br />-Kidnapping of whites in Britain to bring to the Americas<br />-Child labor and gross working conditions in the mines and factories in America and Britain during the industrial revoloution.<br />-One of the most disturbing events documented here: the use of \\"human brooms\\" as chimney sweeps in England during the 1800's.  These might be able to claim the worst status.  The orphans who had to climb up chimneys filled with toxic dirt and soot weren't even paid to do so, they were forced to do that work and then BEG for a living.<br />-White slavery and white slave trade in colonial America.  These whites were treated as more expendable then the African slaves because the slave ships had to go out of their way to pick up Africans.<br />-\\"Redneck,\\" because whites had to work out in the fields in the sun so their skin would get tanned and burned.<br />-\\"Hillbilly,\\" because when they were freed or escaped, the slaves had nowhere to live except in remote places in the backwoods and especially APPALACIA.<br />-The race politics presented here explain and elucidate the animostiy between blacks, lower class whites and the white slave-and-plantation owning aristocracy in the South.<br />-This one's the kicker: the word SLAVE actually comes from SLAV, the white peoples of Eastern Europe who were often raided and held in bondage by invaders.<br />This book is well worth getting a hand on and reading, because it proves that slavery is a universal condition that has been practiced against all races and nations of people, even against those traditionally portrayed (i.e. Anglo Saxons/whites) as being the slavemasters and oppressors.te peoples of Eastern Europe who were often raided and held in bondage by invaders.<br />This book is well worth getting a hand on and reading, because it proves that slavery is a universal condition that has been practiced against all races and nations of people, even against those traditionally portrayed (i.e. Anglo Saxons/whites) as being the slavemasters and oppressors.	2003-01-04
US	35854103	R24YSQIM10WU4I	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	5	3	6	N	N	An observant, no-holds-bar analysis of government hypocrisy	Here is a very intriguing pamphlet that shows how silly the \\"War on Terror\\" actually is. Chomsky relates how the 9/11 terrorist attacks are nothing new to the world, simply stating that such massacres have been perpetrated by one country against another for hundreds of years. This will rile-up many people, but Chomsky points out that what was really unique was that \\"FOR THE FIRST TIME, THE GUNS HAVE BEEN DIRECTED THE OTHER WAY.\\" European Powers colonized most of the rest of the world in the late 1800's and the early 1900's but they were never under attack from the countries that were taken over: \\"England was not attacked by India,<BR>nor Belgium by the Congo, nor Italy by Ethiopia, nor France by Algeria...\\"  Other information given is that it was the CIA who covertly recruited and brought together the most radical Islamic Fundamentalists during the 1980's to fight in Afghanistan, and that these Islamists have been following thier own agenda since 1981, when President Sadat in Egypt was assasinated.  Also, according to Chomsky, is that if every country followed what the US is doing in its \\"War on Terrorism\\" countries like Cuba, Nicaragua, Haiti and Lebannon would be justified launching massive bombing campaigns and terrorist attacks on US soil in retaliation for US actions against their countries.  Chomsky even says that if the UK did what the US was doing, the Royal Air Force would have to bomb places where the IRA gets its support, like New York and Boston.	2002-12-27
US	35854103	R3QLKKT3URADXE	074530818X	741517218	Jewish History, Jewish Religion	Books	5	25	37	N	N	What is Judaism?	\\"Noam Chomsky endorses a book that says Jews worship Satan!\\"  As part of the neo-conservative backlash against the radical left, that was one of the slanders thrown around that I've read. How can a book by a secular humanist, left-wing Jewish holocaust survivor be hated, suppressed and ignored by the secular humanist, liberal establishment?  By criticizing the Orthodox Jewish religion, especially in the policies that this religion exerts on the State of Israel today.  _Jewish History, Jewish Religion_ is a short expose written in a somewhat sarcastic tone.  Following an introduction by Gore Vidal on the questionable machinations of the Zionist lobby in the United States, Shahak's book is divided into several parts.  The first chapter describes the State of Israel as a \\"closed utopia,\\" catering to Jewish imperial interests at the expense of the Palestinians and other non-Jewish people.  The second chapter, \\"Prejudice and Prevarication\\" discusses the totalitarian nature and ultra-exclusionist nature of classical Judaism until the 19th century, and of the Zionist attempts to restore Jewry to this state.  \\"Orthodoxy and Interpretation\\" is the most interesting chapter, especially in its summary of the nature of the Talmud's arbitrary and absurd laws and cabalistic Jewish mysticism.  It has something to do with the Son and the Daughter of the divine parents being kept apart from their sexual union by Satan.  The rituals and prayers offered by Jews are supposed to distract Satan and to encourage the Son and Daughter to have intercourse.  The Babylonian Talmud is recognized as Judaism's actual authoritative scripture, not the Hebrew Old Testament.  English language literature on the Talmud and Cabala, as Shahak notes, are universally mistranslated and edited of controversial anti-Christian and anti-gentile material so as not to offend enough of the wrong people.  Shahak even postulates that the Old Testament is far more relevant to both Protestantism and Catholicism than itis to Judaism.  The laws of the Talmud, and codifiers of the Halakah (Jewish law) such as Maimonides, were virulently anti-gentile, and justified Jewish oppression of gentiles whenever and however possible.  The only exceptions to this were when Jewish practices were likely to offend powerful gentiles who might attack the Jews. A notable case of this was the role of Jews in Poland, where they worked for the nobility to oppress the Christian peasantry in taxes and monopolies of trade.  Shahak notes two especial qualities of the post-Biblical Jewish community: they never had a peasantry and always supported whoever was in charge for their own profit and protection.  Shahak also reveals the anti-Christian nature of Judaism, which arose during the first century AD when Christianity was a small persecuted sect.  Christians were to exterminated as heretics and idolaters, the New Testament was commanded to be burned, and Jesus was accused of being a blasphemer, a witch, the son of a whore, condemned to be boiled in sewage and semen in the afterlife.  The Talmud also takes credit for the crucifixion of Jesus, without even mentioning the Romans.  One of the more disturbing facts about Judaism is the calling of some extremist groups in Israel (with some of their overseas support) for a Jewish empire in the Mid-East.  Such an idea was used by David Ben-Gurion as a vision of Jerusalem as the capital of the United Nations of the world, with a `shrine to the prophets\\" at the Temple Mount site.  _Jewish History, Jewish Religon_ is an excellent work that needs a much wider audience than it currently receives (largely right-wing groups in the US).  I would also recommend Shahak's other two books, _Open Secrets_ and _Jewish Fundamentalism in Israel_ which elaborate on the themes in this book, along with Michael Hoffman's _Judaism's Strange Gods_ for a Christian theological perspective.	2002-12-25
US	35854103	R3NIG38YMJHIUY	1583225366	967029653	Media Control, Second Edition: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Series)	Books	5	12	25	N	N	Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion for middle schoolers	This book reads just like the Protocols of Zion (supposedly an \\"anti-semitic\\" tract published by the Czar's secret police in 1905) but with a modern edge and a sarcastic and accusing ring to it.  It explains how government uses the media to further its own ends, such as drumming up support for wars against countries the Average Joe can't point out on a map or has never even heard of.  <BR>Take for instance Afghanistan.  If 9/11 never happend, do you think that places like \\"Kabul,\\" \\"Mazar-e-Sharif,\\" or \\"Khyber Pass\\" or people like \\"Mullah Omar,\\" \\"Marwan-al-Shehi\\" or \\"Pervez Musharraf\\" would have ever become household words?<BR>Now the media is getting the public in a panic against a never-ending array of minute Third World states that are presented as extremely dangerous.  But as has been shown in RECENT world conflicts in which the US has been a part, most of our \\"enemies\\" can't even sissy-slap us in combat.  The only substansial damage that Iraq, Yugoslavia, Cuba, etc (besides a limited number of combat casualities) is the financial cost-HUNDREDS of BILLIONS of DOLLARS which goes into the pockets of the MILITARY-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX.	2002-12-25
US	35854103	R16M6L6JXMRT6U	0970378416	662551914	Secret Societies and Psychological Warfare	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Psychidelic--You won't read anything else like it.	This has to be one of the most OUT THERE books ever written.  Mr. Hoffman makes all kinds of connections where there doesn't even appear (on the outset) to be an issue involving some form of mind control using symbolism that sends messages to the unconscious or occult conspiracies to control and warp humanity.<BR>I had to read it through twice in order to take everything that was revealed.  The three major events that happened in the middle of the 20'th century take on occult, alchemical, Masonic significance. In order to usher in a New Age of humanity (where the rule of the literal Devil will be acknowledged by all) three goals of alchemy had to be accomplished: <BR>1) The creation and destruction of primordial matter (Atomic bomb test \\"Trinity\\")<BR>2) The killing of the Divine King (the JFK assasination) and<BR>3) The bringing of Prima Materia to Prima Terra (the moon flights and bringing of moon rocks to earth).<BR>The best statment contained in this book is: \\"To know our limits is not a limitation. It only signifies that rather than perpetually trying to surpass our Creator, we cultivate our sensitivity to the incomparably beautiful vision He has bequeathed us as our birthright, and drink everyday with joyous appreciation at the fountain of miraculous glory that is His natural creation.\\"<BR>The book concludes with some enigmatic statements to \\"Beware of Wicked King Wicker\\" and a droll picture of little gnomes dancing holding hands in a circle beside a huge mushroom and a hut in a hilly field. It looks like scenery from the 1970's HOBBIT cartoon movie. Two eerie faces are seen in the picture--one in the sky like a UFO sighting and one from a tree. I have no idea what this picture means, but it works well as a words-can't-describe ending to a strange book.	2002-12-25
US	35854103	RGH3SJ7SPRLJL	0875524109	971855788	The Institutes of Biblical Law	Books	5	38	56	N	N	Tota Scriptura	What makes this book so effective is that it regards the ENTIRE Bible as the inerrant Word of God.  It doesn't just throw out the death penalty requirements (for sodomy, blasphemy, adultery, etc.), curses, threats of Divine wrath and retribution, and the like in the Old Testament because they don't sound very nice.  The book well written, quoting many different sources (many contemporary) to prove what Rushdoony is saying.  It is outlined on the model of the Ten Commandments in the Book of Exodus.  <br />An excellent chapter is the one on the woman forgiven for adultery.  Rushdoony explains that this trial actually reaffirmed the death-penalty statutes in the Law of Moses.  When Christ drew in the dust at the temple after the Pharisees made their accusation against the woman, he invoked the curse of the bitter water (from the Book of Numbers) on the Pharisees.  When he asked who was without sin, Christ referred to the sin of adultery.  Since the curse of the bitter water was invoked on the Pharisees (and the penalty for adultery is death), they knew that if they threw a stone at the woman, they would also come under the death penalty for adultery themselves.  Therefore no one threw a stone and they all left.  Thus, there was no legal case against the woman since \\"the testimony of two or three witnesses\\" is necessary to convict of a crime in the Law.  So Christ had no legal case against the woman, and she was let go and warned not to sin again.<br />Other good chapters in this book deal with Christ's political messianic leadership reaffirmed at the transfiguration, and Gary North's \\"In Defense of Biblical Bribery\\" appendix.	2002-07-26
