US	35906535	R2RSVUKARXC5N0	039330762X	350671306	The Mauritius Command (Aubrey/Maturin )	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Excellent ,action packed and credible	I had given up on this series after the last book (HMS Surprise) because I was getting lost in the seafaring terminology and there was a bit much of the love-lorn simpering in the tale.   The Mauritius Command restores my faith in this series.    It's a great tale of derring-do in the Indian Ocean, its based on some actual events and actual ships and overall the tone is very convincing.  The women folk are left back on land, and only intrude to an acceptable level of letter writing etc.  My (paperback) edition contains a valuable afterword by Brian Lavery who describes the actual ships on which the tale is based, and gives a worthwile overview of the seafaring terminology.  I still won't be able to distinguish a fore topsail yard from a quarterdeck, but at least Lavery is reassuring that they are meaningful terms.   <br /> Jack Aubery continues on his lucky career in the British Navy, almost - but not quite - achieving lasting fame and fortune; this being more necessary now that he has a wife, three children and a mother-in-law to support.   For me, this book develops Stephen Maturin more - he is still secretive, reflective, reassuringly Irish and intellectual, however he develops a melancholia which is only temporarily suppressed by his furtive diplomatic activities.  O'Brien moves Maturin one step closer to Sherlock Holmes by hinting at his opiate use during the story <br />	2005-08-26
US	35906535	R2V9HW7G8ULIDP	B0002Y125Q	510215142	Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet	Books	3	5	7	N	N	the roots of the thinking behind GW Bush;s foreign policy.	The book outlines the backgrounds of some of the key figures in George W. Bush's first administration.  One of them - Richard Armitage - in the aftermath of  9/11 utters the immortal line \\"History begins today\\", to warn a Pakistani ambassador who is being less than wholly co-operative. It represents, in a way, the post Cold War thinking of the group described in the book as the Vulcans ; loosely categorized by the view that the USA has become the pre-eminent global economic and military power and every other country needs to accommodate itself to that fact. The book makes clear that past internal Republican Party personality and policy disputes play a significant part in the evolution of George W.'s foreign policy, so history does play a part. <br /> <br /> The book's basic premise is that since at least the mid 1970's there has been an ongoing clash between `pragmatists' and `moralists' within the Republican party over foreign and defence policy.  Henry Kissinger is seen as the arch-pragmatist, whose dtente policy with the Soviet Union was seen either as a practical step in managing a conflict or an amoral compromise between the forces of democracy and those of totalitarianism.  Brent Scowcroft and Colin Powell are seen by the author as inheritors of the pragmatic polices of the Kissinger era.  The opposition to the pragmatists within the Republican Party (the Democrats are seen as not having a realistic foreign or defence policy since the mid 1960s)  are at various stages represented by the Vulcans of the books title - Chaney, Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz and Perle.  In the 1970s the moralists lobbied for more US recognition of Soviet dissent, in the 1980s for more active opposition to Soviet and socialist regimes - e.g. in Afghanistan and Nicaragua, and in retrospect the 1990s policies of the Vulcans were seen (at least by themselves)  as the driving forces which led to the collapse of the Soviet Union. <br /> The book presents the various Republican presidents as havingto choose between these poles - Nixon totally within the pragmatic/compromise wing, Ford initially pragmatic/status-quo position, but shift towards a more aggressive stance - to the point where he would not use the word dtente towards the end of his term. This later represented the eclipse of Kissinger and the rise of Rumsfeld/Cheney. Regan was seen as very moralistic  in his first term - unaided by either Rumsfeld or Cheney - he labelled the Soviet Union `The Evil Empire', however the books shows how his interaction with Gorbachev softened his administration to the point where the Elder Bush's personnel sought to reassert the tough positions of the early 1980s when they came to power.  <br /> The Cold-War portion of the book is quiet plausible and well-researched, based on well-regarded accounts and historical sources.  The book well illustrates the post-Cold War confusion about US defence and foreign policy. Cheney initially regards the Soviet threat enduring, even after the collapse of the Soviet Union - however within eighteen months he switches to the justification that US defence expenditure is necessary to counteract the instability and potential chaos of post Soviet Russia. <br /> The efforts to devise a post Cold War foreign and defence policy are shown primarily form the point of view of the Pentagon. The book makes the case that the pragmatic Colin Powell doctrine  - the US should use military force only when there are clear/limited/attainable military objectives, when there is overwhelming force and when the US people have been engaged and persuaded by the policy - was gradually changed by the Wolfowitz/Rumsfeld/Cheney policy of keeping the US militarily pre-eminent to deter the emergence of potential rivals.    It is possible to argue this in the light of the failures of Yugoslavia and the ongoing stalemate in Iraq during the 1990s, however these areas are beyond the books narrative, unfortunately. <br /> The real impetus to the evolution of the  pre-eminence policy  was the 9/11 attack. The invasion of Afghanistan was, to a certain extent, predicated on the lunacy of the Taliban's regime giving shelter to Al Qaeda.; however the book tries to put the Iraq invasion into the context of an evolving policy of encouragement of democracy - in effect the moralists adopting a Wilsonian foreign policy in an overtly aggressive way.  It is here that the book, in my opinion, is at its weakest - it is very difficult to see the attack on Iraq as part of an overall US policy; to me the Iraq invasion - which I support - is more a one-off result of a combination of circumstances - unfinished business between Saddam and the Bush family, the monstrosities of the Saddam regime towards its own people, the corruption of the UN sanctions efforts,   I do not see it as a realistic basis for future US policy. <br /> I believe the main weakness of the book is to leave out the character of George W. Bush - Mann would argue that George W. played no part in the evolution of Republican foreign or defence policy in the 1980s or 90s - however the books shows how the Vulcans, in common with all Presidential appointees, must vie for the ear and favour of the President, and this entails quite a few twists and turns on the path to influence. I find it inconceivable that the Iraq invasion would have gone ahead under any other President, I also find it inconceivable that after Afghanistan any other country (Somalia and Yemen were considered) would have been invaded by the GW Bush administration.  <br /> Fundamentally the book is a collective biography, surprisingly perhaps Powell and Rice are unfavourably viewed - Powell as being very political, but too pragmatic to be influential with George W., Rice is seen as playing to both camps.  There is a good description of Powells appointment as Secretary of State to George W. - he is necessary to lend gravitas and credibility, but almost immediately the `moralist' wing try to counterbalance his role, and ultimately this falls to Cheney/Rumsfeld.   I think the books misses a key point about Powell as Secretary of State - he did not appear to me to act as the US's chief diplomat, he did not travel sufficiently and did not effectively convince a wide range of allies to support the US policy.  Powell's supporters would say that it was not his policy and that his presence in Washington was necessary to influence this policy, however I think this is incorrect.  The fact remains that with the appointment of Powell, the G.W Bush administration has former Pentagon chiefs in all the main policy areas, and I think this meant that military options and opinions dominated its policy making and diplomacy.    Rice fares worst in this book - she is seen as being on both sides of the argument between the pragmatists and the moralists, without leading either.  This again I think is a weakness in the book, Rice had no history in the debates of the 1970s and 80s, she is primarily George W's advisor and as such reserves most of her influence for final discussions with the President.  <br /> Rumsfeld is seen as the toughest, most able Vulcan.  He is suitably ruthless  -  he moves against a rival within the Ford administration by suggesting that Ford needs a Presidential study and seeing to it that the rival's office is taken for the purpose, thus removing him from access and influence.   Cheney is described as an able administrator, solemn, discreet , persuasive within the administration, but crucially lacking in mass communication skills. Wolfowitz is described as an ideas man, driving the policy but losing out on the play for influence, being relegated to non-cabinet roles.  The book shows Wolofwitz to be a convinced, right-wing US patriot. He is the one who most clearly espouses the Wilsonian view of the US as guarantor of democratic values.   I see no reason for the inclusion of Richard Armitage in this group - I would have preferred to read more about Donald Freith, Lewis Libby or even Tommy Franks,  Armitage seems to be included because, paradoxically for a Vietnam Veteran, he ended up on the less hawkish side of the arguments in the post 9/11 administration.  <br /> In all, I think the book is strong on the evolution of the foreign and defence policy debates within the various Republican administrations since the ending of the Vietnam War. It is especially good on the emergence of the Cheney/Rumsfeld/Wolfowitz group,   <br />However I think its character profiles are uneven and I think it does not take sufficient account of the character of individual Presidents in the shaping of policy in reaction to contemporary events.  <br />	2005-08-26
US	35906535	R2TQWKBJ6XSOLH	0689114656	217220368	Good times, bad times	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Well written account of a dramatic editorship	I grew up reading Harold Evan's Sunday Times - in the late 1970s it provided a window on the world that few other papers could. I particularly remember comprehensive coverage of Egyptian President Sadats historic visit to Jerusalem; ongoing coverage of Soviet dissidents and a very welcome (I'm Irish) editorial urging Britain to consider withdrawal from Northern Ireland.  However, from today's perspective, the paper's foreign coverage seemed to be written from a point of view which could be summarised as `what would the world do without Henry Kissinger?' [Indeed this has always seemed to be Mr. Kissinger's view also]; and that Soviet unreasonableness was a product of American hawkish unreasonableness and that balance, compromise and reasonableness were achievable with enough negotiation.  My memory is of positive disdain for the emerging tax revolt in California and absolute dread at the more confrontational foreign policy approach being urged by followers of Governor Reagan.  A major positive for me was the explanatory diagrams and the furtively taken photographs of Soviet missiles (SS-20s?) being deployed in Russian forests.  I was reminded of these diagrams in 2002/3 when the modern Sunday Times gave excellent descriptions - supported by diagrams - of Saddam's mobile chemical/biological weapons labs - which turned out not to exist.<br /><br /> In saying all the above, I mean both to pay tribute to Harold Evans and to put in context the criticisms I have of this book - which contains descriptions of his triumphs as Sunday Times editor and his difficulties as Times Editor under Rupert Murdoch.  The book has three sections - the first describes some of the episodes which made Evan's Sunday Times great - the investigative reports from the Insight team and others, of malicious cover-ups of poor quality in the pharmaceutical industry (Thalidomide) and the aircraft industry (McDonnell Douglas); the publication of the Crossman Diaries - laying bare the rivalries and mutual disdain of the members of the British Labour Cabinet.  Having established his credentials  as a `vertical' journalist - Evan's term, which he describes as `seeking to get to the bottom of things' - and lauding his proprietors, the Thomson's, for allowing him to do so, the second part of the book deals with the advent of Mr. Murdoch as owner.  The machinations of Murdoch to gain control are fascinating, the Thomson's were drained both financially and personally by the losses induced by union activity, and they secretly dealt with Murdoch while other offers were being pursued by the editors.  Murdoch eventually won ownership of both the Times and Sunday Times, having given guarantees of editorial freedom to a board of `national directors', guarantees, which if breached, were theoretically amenable to criminal legal sanction.  As part of the change of ownership Evans was offered the editorship of the Times - one of the free worlds most revered titles.  In his description of the paper, Evans reveals an almost po-faced reverence for the place of the Times as part of the British Establishment - he sees it as the paper of record, upholding fair, non-partisan and accurate journalism which British society has come to expect. One feature of this is his constant enumeration of people's educational background, almost every colleague is named and then his/her school and university are listed - for example Joe Smith, Winchester, Oxford, to establish both social class and academic (perhaps intellectual) credentials.  He documents the `four pillars' of the Times as its reporting of Parliament, its legal coverage, its obituaries and its leader columns.  Oh dear! Stolid stuff, from the fearless, vertical, investigative editor. Nonetheless this section contains fascinating accounts of Evan's new broom editorship coming to terms with the rather lazy attitude to scoops and freshness of news which, by implication, criticise his predecessor as editor (William Rees Mogg); and show that change was indeed necessary at the institution.  Looming behind this story is Murdoch's general management style - haphazard interventions, secretive finances and lack of budgeting and planning.  From the text it seems to me that Murdoch was overstretched with transatlantic acquisitions, rather than covertly scheming to undermine Evans.<br /><br /> The third section of the book reads a bit like Macbeth - Murdoch plots to renege on his guarantees and to impose his will on the editors. The text here is well paced and descriptive - the tension plays havoc with everyone, save perhaps Murdoch, Evan's second-in-command betrays him, various functionaries within the paper either resign or become lackeys, the `national directors' turn out to be paper tigers (this is too good a pun to delete), the Thatcher government sides with Murdoch and fails to taken any action as the guarantees are broken, piecemeal.  The thrust of this section reveals Evans as tragic hero, valiantly striving to uphold freedom of speech against the devious, double-dealing Murdoch, whose lackeys live in fear of his disapproval.  However, by the time I got to this section I had, sadly, lost a lot of respect for Evan's impartiality, his defence of press freedom seemed to me to cloak an innate inability to face change in the form of new commercial and political realities.  This was reaffirmed in my mind when, on the day that Evan's agreed to reign, who should phone to commiserate but Henry Kissinger!<br /><br /> In the end I think the book is important in that it is illustrates that one important feature of change and leadership is that they are neither comfortable nor, initially at least, popular.  Evans, though personally engaging - and I'm sure mercurial and demanding - came to represent a set of fading political beliefs. The change occurring at the times these events described were taking place saw the emergence of economic individualism unleashed by lowering taxation rates; the antipathy to organised labour and active military competition with the Soviet Union.  The fading, indeed failing, Social Democratic consensus was overthrown by a more individualistic and competitive set of beliefs and the process was quite ugly, given the sincerely held beliefs on both sides.  I believe Evans and Murdoch were representative shadows of this change.  The rest of the story - Evans attractive forthrightness, Murdoch's furtive acquisitiveness - while the human interest focus of the story, are ultimately a side show.<br /><br /> This book is well told, highly dramatic and engaging, however seen at a remove of twenty five years it is a lament from someone who worked hard to become part of an establishment whose day was done.	2005-08-25
US	35906535	R1BWZRWUMKV87V	0330411926	567108552	My Trade: A Short History of British Journalism	Books	4	2	2	N	N	excellent description, punchy, short on alternatives	Marr's trade is journalism, he has been a print journalist, an editor and a BBC political correspondent in Britain for the last twenty years.  The book gives an overview of the origins of and current influences on British journalism.  The book is witty, informed and eminently readable, as you might expect.  Marr doesn't spare us the basic ruthlessness of the trade - his early tasks as a cub reporter involved trying to get details on local crimes and deaths from the grieving next of kin, he later says that he wrote disparagingly of a rising Tory minister - John Patten - who had been a source, and Marr had been a guest at Patton's home.   <br /> The book has a series of chapters - in fact they are long enough to be sections - on print journalism, British newspaper proprietors, Video-journalism, and political and special correspondents.  In summary his heart is in print journalism, he thinks the proprietors are in general weird, upwardly mobile outsiders who bring business dynamism to the trade, I think he feels that video journalism is too rehearsed, too controlled by legal obligations to be `real', but it is hugely vivid, and he has both respect and a pleasingly level of scepticism about specialist correspondents, political or foreign.   <br /> Marr feels that the development of political reporting (as opposed to British journalism) in Britain was brought about as much by parliament's need to communicate with potential taxpayers (who may not have been voters) during the time of the Napoleonic Wars, as much as by any ancient rites to free speech.  One of the things about the book that I found most enlightening is the role of the editors and subeditors in sourcing the stories which will be printed, I suppose I  was always aware that certain newspapers supported certain views - for example you will never find the Economist berating market-based solutions - but I was not aware of the extent to which Editors sent out reporters to find particular stories and `rewrite' theresults to suit.  Marr became editor of the Independent newspaper in England in the early Nineties, and largely judges himself to have failed at the task.  The book carries a huge element of wistfulness for this period, and the life of the editor together with deadlines, financial pressure to attract particular types of readers - `more rolexes, less dead babies', and pressure, pressure, pressure. Marr brings us through the details of putting together  a newspaper - the fastest changing news goes last to the printer - so sports are on the back page, the headlines and local news are on the first pages, features and soft news are towards the middle - the first pages printed.  <br /> His views on video journalism are quite pointed and, while the technology is quite awesome and the skills involved are quite different to print, he sees the medium as being focused on the visual and the emotional.  He quotes John Birt, a former head of BBC, about the emotional impact of video news driving out analysis, and Marr cites genuine dilemmas in news rooms where the news with the dramatic pictures crowds out stories which, even in the views of the reporters and editors, have more importance. And this view is quite important in the book, one of the best sections of the book comes early on when he asks the fundamental, and ultimately disturbing, question ` What is News?'.  His description of how reporters copy each other, how marketing focuses reports on some issues and not on others, and how local news gathering is disappearing in a sea of `pushed' news releases - in particular celebrities' activities. <br /> In general this is a book worth reading.  Marr does not spare his own foibles and failures, there is quite a lot of anecdote and insider-gossip - Raggi Omar, the BBC's correspondent in Baghdad during the latest war landed a book deal supposed worth 850,000; Peter Riddel is the Times correspondent most worth reading on proposed government policy.  However ,the main use of the book is the twin questions of what is news and how it is influenced and shaped by unaccountable editors and proprietors. Though Marr offers no answers,  this is presented in a interesting form and well worth the time spent. <br />	2005-07-24
US	35906535	R2CPA6Y56KXY8F	0719006880	194086143	Army, James II and the Glorious Revolution	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Second part of a trilogy on the origins of the British army.	Child's first book in this series outlined the origins of Charles II's army - a motley, poorly financed mixture of part timers, landed gentry and mercenaries.  James II took the army he inherited in 1685 and moved it towards become a professional force. In this he was lucky to have stable (and increasing) finance from an increasingly prosperous country, and this allowed him to increase the resources available to the armed forces. Childs is ambiguous towards James's efforts, he acknowledges the increasing professionalisation in the army itself, its administration and the structures necessary to cope with the expanded number of ex-soldiers, however in general he views James as attempting to remove the army from any influence of Parliament or the judiciary.  Childs feels that James was attempting to use the army as an instrument of the crown which would be used to promote royal absolutism, of the kind that Louis XIV was establishing in France.  This has been argued by later scholars, however James's reign was so short that even if this was his aim, he did not come close to its achievement.  Ironically the instrument of his destruction was the army itself, prompted by a group of senior officers, promoted by James, who came to fear his purges of army personnel in Ireland would extend to themselves.   They formed a series of groups, who deserted to William of Orange during the Glorious Revolution. Childs views James tactics during Williams invasion as being quite defensible, and that the time of year (Winter) played a major role in sapping the morale of both James and his  army, but that the coup-de-grace was the series of desertions of senior officers which threw his owns plans into confusion. <br /> The book gives excellent descriptions of the Anglo-Dutch brigade and the condition and changes of the Irish army during James' reign.  The Anglo-Dutch brigade was a body of English and Scottish soldiers, who served the army of the United Provinces, but remained British subjects - therefore obliged to return to England at the command of the James whenever required.  They were recalled in 1685 to defeat Monmouth, being a superior professional force, and in early 1688 in an attempt to promoted disunion in the force, which was seen as partial to William.   The purge of the Irish army during the reign, led by Lord Tyrconnell, which replaced protestants in the ranks with catholics  is well documented.  Childs makes the point that it was not the dismissal of Protestant officers, so much as the fact that they were not compensated for the loss of their commissions (the Catholic officers were, in general, impoverished), which caused the most trouble.  This influenced the professional officers in the English army, who had no personal resources to fall back on, to fear for their welfare should  James extend the purge to the English army. Ironically Childs indicates that James was, at best, lukewarm about the changes underway in the Irish army.  <br /> This book is the product of a significant amount of work profiling officers within the contemporary English army and gives an exceptional view of the tumult of this short, but pivotal time in the British political and military history. <br />	2005-07-24
US	35906535	RKQNOOMBSO2H3	0802021808	483410257	The army of Charles II (Studies in social history)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Solid, workmanlike history of the origins of the British Army.	<br />Up to the reign of Charles I, British armies had been temporary, voluntary gatherings, who assembled at the prompting of the Monarch and were funded by a combination of local gentry and taxes. Cromwell's New Model Army was a highly-disciplined, permanently constituted army containing large number of politically motivated officers and was used to repress both King and (eventually) Parliament.  <br /> Neither mode - voluntary, temporary or political-permanent - fitted the needs of the restored Court of Charles II and it is to this era that Childs ascribes the origin of the British army. The fact that the army was to be permanent provoked widespread controversy at the time, parliament increasingly viewed it as a potential instrument for regal oppression and an affront to liberty.  Charles II definitely saw the army as a bulwark against further outbreaks of revolution. Childs makes the point that the army did, in fact, report solely to the Monarch and, while never a political force, did not feel compelled to justify itself to the elected representatives.  However, as a permanent force in the pay of a perennially cash-strapped King, it ultimately needed the funds which only parliament could approve, to continue its existence. This, and the fact that large numbers of the office class saw it fitting to serve in local or central electoral office, served to ensure that the uneasy stalemate over the army did not descend to revolution or coup in the reign of Charles II.  <br /> <br /> Childs account of the origins and tensions of Charles II's army pays particular attention to the recruits, the military life and the administration required to finance the army.  He makes useful distinctions between the Gentlemen Officers - who saw military office as part of their - usually wealthy - status,  and the Professional Officers who needed active employment as their sole means of support. He shows that in peacetime the army was officered by the Gentlemen, while the Professionalsbecame mercenaries in more militarily active powers - e.g France, Netherlands.  The professionals gained experience which formed the core of the larger British armies of the Williamite and early Georgian eras. <br /> Interestingly (for me) he holds that Ireland was in the forefront of the recognition of the necessity to cope with the social needs of a permanent army - being the first to provide permanent barracks and a hospital for old soldiers (Kilmainham).  The armies of Scotland, Ireland and England were separate legal entities. There is much description of the how much the English army learned tactics, training, equipment from the dominant French military of the day - generals such as Vabaun and Turenne were the leading military innovators of the day, and greatly influenced those who would become the core of the British armies of later years. <br /> <br /> Perhaps the greatest challenge in Charles II's army was the task of administering the army in terms of provision of accommodation, provisions, training and equipment. Childs is excellent at illustrating the dawning realization of the needs of efficient administration and reliable financing. This challenge eventually called forth excellent administrators - e.g. Sir William Blathwayt (Pepy's equivalent in the Army), however he is also clear that this was the start of the era of great corruption which plagued the army into Hanovarian times. Sir Stephen Fox, who regulated the payment of the army, while emerging as the wealthiest commoner in the Kingdom, gets a mention. <br /> The second half of the book describes the `overseas' activities of the army. Charles II acquired colonies in Tangier and Bombay, which he had to garrison. As ever he was short of money and the consequent deprivations of the garrisons make harrowing reading. North American colonies `suffered' benign neglect, while the West Indies were the scenes of some battles with the Dutch and French, perhaps because they were seen as a source of great wealth in terms of trade.  Charles tried to maintain a trained army on the cheap by allowing his troops to fight for foreign armies - Dutch, Portugese and French in particular. This led to enormous complications due to Charles duplicitous foreign policies. <br /> <br /> I enjoyed the book, however I would have liked if two issues had been clarified, what were the interactions (if any) between the army and the local militia (trained bands), both were at the service of the King, but the trained bands varied in loyalty and quality by regions.  Also it would be interesting to see how the army and navy interacted during this time. All in all however this is a useful start in terms of military history of the later Stuart Era. <br />	2005-07-16
US	35906535	R2I3A42B8WQQJ4	1862073295	40818551	Rodinsky's Room	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Lichtenstein, and Sinclair, fit-up Rodinsky to an imagined past	More a story about the author than the subject, ignore Sinclair's part.  <br />This book is actually a projection of Rachel Lichtenstein's search for a particular type of Eastern European, Jewish past. It begins with a tale of an room, undisturbed since its solitary occupier - the Rodinsky of the title - mysteriously abandoned it in the late 1960's.  Rachel Lichtestein begins the tale by trying to rediscover her Jewish origins, and discovers Rodinsky's abandoned room above a desolate synagogue in a part of the East End of London which was a Jewish area in the first half of the Twentieth Century. <br /> <br /> While the narrative moves along Rachel's attempts to find out more about the life and circumstances of Rodinsky, however it becomes clear that she is overtaken by her imaginings and projects her increasing interest in cabbalistic thought and Jewish mysticism.  Her search in London is rather mundane, however the book comes alive when she travels to Poland to visit abandoned Jewish villages in the borderlands of the present-day Poland and Ukraine. It was from this area that a significant number of the East End Jews arrived, following pograms in the late 19th Century. The impact of the devastation of the Second World War and the Nazi genocide is still palpable in the area, especially to Rachel and her companions.  There are interesting insights into the devastated  folk culture, in particular the Golem - a fictitious, menacing ogre, and the lamed vavnika, a collection of righteous, learned men, whose identities are secret. Their presence and their anonymity, prevent the world from being destroyed.  It's a highly evocative tale of vengeful Deities, secrecy and scholarship. Rachel associates this with Rodinsky's fevered,multilingual note taking, and this is where the story  is at its  most tenuous.   <br /> The balance of the story is a straight-forward description of the twists and turns involved in Rachel's quest to piece together Rodinsky's last movements and, finally, his last resting place. Her motivation is to offer a prayer - Kaddish - over his grave, as she has done for others in Eastern Poland, is very moving.  Usually Kaddish is offered by the deceased's next-of-kin, however both Rodinsky and the victims of genocide had no one to pray for them and Rachel feels the weight of this desolation. The book can be very deflating in terms of the cycle of woe which befalls the Jews - the Polish pograms of the 1890's, the genocide of the Second World War,  and there are mentions of subsequent anti-Semitism in Poland of the 1960s.   There is a hopelessness about the fate of the Jews in the storytelling which is belied by the energy of the storyteller in her research and in her real life.  This does not gel with my experience of Israel/Palestine, which I know to be a highly energetic, cosmopolitan, diverse and troubled society, whose energy is its most appealing characteristic.  That being said, the part of the story told by Rachel, while being somewhat incredible, is sincere and well told. <br /> <br /> Have you ever experienced a bore at a funeral? Someone who is so intent on telling his/her own story with only glancing references to the deceased?  For a reason, which is inexplicable to me, the story of Rachel's quest is periodically interrupted by irrelevant chapters by Iain Sinclair which completely break the flow of the narrative.  He mentions `waiting for Godot', Bob Geldof, Harold Pinter, his own writings, the writing of some of his obscure friends, other Jewish legends, other people who are dead or missing - all tangentially related to Rodinsky or Rachel. Why? Sinclair shows up at the launch of the book and its readings, but he does not carry or contribute to the story.  I can only surmise that Rachel was not confidant in her abilities to get the book started without him, but surely an experience editor should have intervened at some point in the books creation and dropped Sinclair;s contribution.  As it is, the book canbe quite usefully understood without bothering with Sinclair's pieces - indeed each chapter's author is listed, so perhaps the editor is making some effort at guiding us through the dross. <br /> <br /> Through Rachel's recounting of the story, it is obvious that the room, abandoned by Rodinsky in the 1960's, has been used as a powerful metaphor by both writers and photographers since it's `rediscovery' in the 1980's. It becomes clear from the photographs of the room that various photographs have rearranged the `undisturbed' room to fit their own needs for a story over the years.  I think Rachel is also guilty of the same transference, it is possible that Rodinsky saw himself as an autodictat, in splendid isolation or it may be that he was a disturbed, isolated and frightened man who lived and died in extreme poverty and loneliness.  Once it becomes clear that  Rodinsky's actual personality and possessions are not knowable at this remove, the story could have focussed more on the social life of the Jewish area of the East End, the story could have included social progression, increasing affluence and assimilation; instead I believe the narrative explores Jewish tragedy and isolation, the necessity to acquire and disseminate knowledge so as to leave a record which may survive the inevitable disasters that will be visited upon the population. <br /> <br />	2005-07-16
US	35906535	R1HJZ4IJR93L8C	0674307607	952912084	The Footnote: A Curious History	Books	4	20	22	N	Y	witty, whimsical  tour of the methodsof historical learning	The history, use and meaning of the footnote is a rather unlikely subject for a book, however, Grafton uses it to focus on the practice of history and the flesh-and-blood jealousies, mistakes and falsehoods which lie behind even the driest of academic pursuits.  One caveat, which struck me at the start, is that surely footnotes would not have evolved solely form historical research, surely they would have surfaced in more useful contemporary documents, perhaps to do with legal or diplomatic professions.    That apart, Grafton takes the evolution of the footnote in historical scholarship as the evolution of `scientific' methodology in historical research.  On the surface Grafton states that the `the text persuades, the notes prove'. Originally history was story telling by people who claimed to be present, and/or participants, in great events.  As scholarship evolved, the fact that participants might have different motivations, points-of-view and/or explicit biases became increasingly apparent.  \\"Ambassadors' reports - a great source of archival works - report on deliberations to which they did not have direct access and the intentions of monarchs who did not speak frankly\\".  Therefore scholars began to quote their sources by use of footnotes to the main text.    Within this context, Grafton illustrates the distance some scholars will go to, in terms of selective quotation of some sources, the suppression of others and it is this which enlivens a topic which otherwise might have been deathly-dull.  He acknowledges, with  admiration, that some historians use footnotes to allow that there exist contrary interpretations of the thesis they are pursuing.  However his work in the field allows him to allow him to add venom e.g. ` but often they (historians) quietly set the subtle, but deadly cf. (compare) in the footnote. This indicates, at least to the expert reader, both that an alternative view appears in the cited work and that it is wrong'.  Grafton has worked in many European languages and this allows him to humorously  include and compare the many differing ways that footnotes can convey bile - \\" The English do so with a characteristically sly adverbial construction `oddly overestimated'.  Germans use the direct `ganz abwegig' (totally off-track); the French, a colder, but less blatant `discutable'\\".      The book traces the evolution of the `scientific' recording and interpretation of texts to convey historical scholarship through the work of historians of  three centuries, and it is though this that Grafton exhibits great learning and humanity. The foibles, ambitions and disputes are clearly acknowledged as is their passion for their work. Grafton has clear sympathy for both.  He is more grudging in acknowledging the contribution of philosophy - specially the work of Descartes and Voltaire - in the development of the uneasy concoction of art and science which is modern history.  This is a magnificent description of an exchange between Liebnitz and Bayle in the 1690's, where the latter's desire to document every mistake in historical writings available at the time, is called into question. Liebnitz instead argued that it would be more accurate and economical to pursue a project which documented the verified truth of historical research.   Each project is, of course, infinite, though Liebnitz's is the more practicable.     While Grafton ranges widely though the historians of the 14th to the 19th Century  I feel that he reserves especially favour for Gibbon and von Ranke, Gibbon for his masterful confidence and literate authority - Grafton goes so far as to suggest that Gibbon reluctantly adopted the footnote, feeling that it broke the narrative flow.  He favours Ranke for his zeal in perfecting the methodology of source quotation and interpretation as well as instituting the seminar for exposition and training of upcoming historians. Grafton points out, tellingly but humanely, that Ranke was not above self-delusion in his judgment of his own methodology, by showing that Ranke's own footnotes were less exact than the historian claimed.      The narrative,which can be quite detailed and wide-ranging, flows along thanks to Grafton;s style.  Complex points are not simplified, but nor are the human details overlooked  e.g. his laconic opinion of the medieval   Letters of Aristeas  is rendered as ` this fascinating book has the defect of being a forgery, but also the compensating virtues of beauty and clarity'.	2005-07-16
US	35906535	R1CI9KE95HLBLZ	1851828052	528806626	Ireland and the Jacobite Cause, 1685-1766: A Fatal Attachment	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A tremendous work, displaying great learning	<br />This is a truly absorbing book, adding substantially to the emerging view of Jacobitism as the `elephant in the room' of British social and political life in the 18th Century.  Scholars such as Eveline Cruickshanks, Paul Monod, Linda Colley have shown that English political society had an undercurrent of Jacobitism through this period, which lead to general questioning of  the legitimacy of the Hanovarian regime and those who prospered under it.  O'Ciardha illustrates the situation in Ireland, a more deeply denominationally fractured society, where the room for Protestant doubt (not to say Jacobitism) was very narrow, given the prevailing, embittered and increasingly disenfranchised Catholic majority.   Catholic opinion, of all classes, held faith with the Stuart until at least the 1750s, and while O'Ciardha provides valuable insights into that rare flower,  Irish Protestant Jacobitism - Ormonde, Swift, Orrory etc, the book's primary source material describes Irish Catholicism's ultimately futile attachment to the Stuart cause.  <br /> In illustrating his topic O'Ciardha draws on a wide variety of documentation, and one of the best features of this book is the wealth of source material.  This is a truly magnificent display of scholarship of the era.  He charts the evolving reaction of those in political authority in the country over the years -  <br />The English Ministry's attempts to assuage their Continental Catholic allies (Imperial Austria, Bavaria) while at the same time being true to the Glorious Revolution, the Irish Parliaments' attempt to institutionalise the gains made during the defeat of Catholic/Jacobite forces in 1690 and to prevent the accumulation of influence and power by the majority Catholic community.  <br />These conflicting   policies and the social tensions among the Irish Protestant community are well illustrated in the text. <br /> O'Ciardha is illuminating also on the influences on the Catholic community - traditionally a voice notheard, being characteristed as being ignorant, leaderless and apathetic.  O'Ciardha shows the influence and interaction between the Irish disapora in France and Spain - where large numbers of Irish joined the military with thoughts of a return in conquest - and the society at home. Communication between the two was facilitated by merchants, smugglers and Catholic clergy - the latter being a key Jacobite influence.   In describing the Catholic communities views that the key feature of the book is established, O'Ciadhra makes extensive use of Irish poetry to describe the emotional reaction of the Catholic community to the various highs and lows of the Stuart cause.  He describes an oral tradition of an otherwise powerless community, in which poets would compose verse in Irish, whose use, among other things, would be to spread news and opinion which otherwise was unavailable to them in their language.  O'Ciadhra shows how some poets must have used commentary and reportage on European events available in contemporary English language newspapers as a source for their verse  <br /> And this use of poetry brings me to one of my two quibbles with the book, as a product of the Irish Education system I have some mixed memories of Irish poetry.  While I was pleasantly surprised to know that `ro, s de bheatha bhaile' was composed at the time of Bonny Prince Charlie, I was disturbed to come across Sathrun Cithinn again, once in any particular lifetime being, in my estimate, sufficient to become acquainted with him.  The serious point I am trying to make is that I think the poetry is overused and, paradoxically, the social context of the poets is not sufficiently described.  There are great swathes of the poetry, in Irish, with paragraphs before and after  devoted to its translation.  The points could have been made more succinctly.   Also while, it is truly a work of great scholarship to find and relate this poetry to the events of the times, the book, in my view, does not establish what effect this had on its audience.  Indeed it does not establish who the intended audience was - if Aogn O'Rathaille can be described as the Irish Dryden, who was his patron? Were there a class of Irish Catholic gentry to whom these verses were addressed? And if so what became of them over the years described?  Or were these poets destitute ramblers, singing for their supper among the lower orders.  It is perhaps impossible to know. <br /> O'Ciardha lays the groundwork that shows the evolution of Irish political thought after the final disillusion with the Stuarts, in the 1750s an emergent Catholic mercantile class began to seek and accommodation with the Hanovarian regime, and there germ of a Catholic Committee which worked within the system, which culiminated in the career of Daniel O'Connell was born. Also the realignment of Catholic views away from Jacobitism, allowed its more radical elements to follow revolutionary, democratic , Jacobin views and to make common cause with radical Protestant Irishmen - which germinated in the United Irishman and the only Irish rebellion of the 18th Century.  This is well laid out toward the end of O'Ciardha's work  <br /> <br />The other issue  I have with the book is its focus on the Irish aspects of the Continental Jacobite court,  there is great attention paid to the Catholic piety of James II and III (less so of Bonny Prince Charlie) and the military muscle - such as it was - of the Jacobite court is described as lying within the Irish Brigades resting within the French and Spanish armies., however surely the Jacobite court reflected the attributes of the Three Crowns and was, at various times, under the influence of councillors from each kingdom and reflective of the views of the denominations.  The fact that Ireland did not actually rise in rebellion during the years indicated, while explained well by O'Ciardha as not being for want of planning, must surely have been reflected in changing patterns of influence within the exiled Stuart court and community. <br /> These are minor quibbles, and it is a mark of great scholarship that it leaves you wanting to know more about various areas described. This is a fantastic read and I highly recommend it to anyone with an interest in British or Irish politics of the 18th and 19th Centuries <br />	2005-06-18
US	35906535	R3O86RAFEC8KL7	0521447933	152728507	Jacobitism and the English People, 1688-1788	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Interesting discussion, however ignores  European context	This book lends itself to an interesting reinterpretation of English Society in the  late 17th and early 18th Centuries.  Classically the view has been that English society threw off the yoke of absolutism in Glorious Revolution and established a liberal polity based on agreed limits and divisions of power.  Monod uses multiple sources to show that, in fact, questions of legitimacy and corruption occupied almost all strata of English society and that the government - made up of a coalition of the Monarch and powerful magnates, operating through parliament, - used quite restrictive, if not repressive, measures to establish and maintain civil power and social order.  The book is especially revealing on the general disbelief that George, the elector of Hannover - a relative bumpkin among Monarchs, could ascend the throne of England, and a despair that the Stuart Pretender could not be made to accommodate himself to the Protestantism of the English public. <br /> <br />The stresses involved in maintaining the Hanovarian monarchy and the Whig political ascendancy can be seen through the oppressive, but legal processes, by which order was maintained. Monod makes excellent use of court proceedings to establish the unofficial, popular undercurrent of rebelliousness which allied itself to the Stuart cause.  He is quite clear in the evolution of Jacobitism from being held to be oppressive and absolutist during the 1680's, to becoming associated with liberty and legitimacy as the 18th Century draws on.   There are particularly moving court testimonies from people of all classes accused of Jacobitism,   who assert the lack of clear moral basis of the regime. <br /> <br />One interesting sidelight is the development of the Grand Tour, as Britain came to become a major European power, so the sons of the gentry were dispatched through Europe - especially France and Italy - for their education. The lure of the forbidden - ie meeting the Pretender and his circle- tempted many and overcame quite a few.   This however is about the only use of contemporary European experience, which is one of the two main flaws I found with the book. Even though the title focuses on the English people, I think it is necessary to be informed about the evolving policies of the exiled Jacobite court, its relationship with various French monarchs, its oscillation between Catholic counter-reformation policies and accommodations with English mainstream belief, the interactions and rivalries of the various English, Irish and Scottish claims of loyalty, and the characters of the various Jacobite claimants.   The book mentions these only incidentally and I feel is much less clear because of that fact.  Without this perspective, English Jacobitism seems akin to anarchism, whereas for most of the 18th Century it had a clear set of beliefs and structure, however limited it was in achieving them. <br /> <br />The other flaw I found with the book is its overestimation of the popularity of Jacobitism in England itself.  Obviously, at this remove it is hard to be definitive but some effort has to be made to establish the facts.  I am unconvinced by Monod's descriptions of poplar support for the uprisings of 1715 and 1745. The fact that Scottish highlander and English recusants joined the '45 is clear, however I think it is also clear that the general English population left both sides to fight it out - nether overtly resisting nor helping the progress of the Stuart Pretenders.  The fact the Monod and enumerate and almost name the English recruits who joined Bonny Prince Charlie on his march south in 1745, seems to me to indicate the dearth of his support rather than its breadth. <br /> <br />These caveats aside, the book is well worth reading for its clarification of the unease and tension in English society as it transitions to become a major European military and economic  power.  <br />	2005-06-18
US	35906535	R22T2TN7XKP45A	1852851198	388303328	The Stuart Court in Exile and the Jacobites	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Interesting collection of stories and views; needs context	This is a collection of papers by some of the leading experts in the study of the exile in France of  James II and his Court, and of the various attempts to restore them to the throne of England. <br /> <br />The study of Jacobitism has been a fruitful topic in the study of English History for the last decade or so, going hand in hand with a renewed interest in the English Tory party during the decades after the Glorious Revolution.  These papers show the court itself to have been beset by various factions - Irish, Scottish, English Catholic - and suffering an increasing sense of isolation, not just from Britain, but also from political reality.  <br />Nonetheless some quite serious attempts were made at military restoration, and quite intense diplomacy ensued at the courts of France, Spain, Russia and Sweden.    <br /> <br />There are evocative descriptions of the (unfunded) Jacobites in Paris, living in garrets, waiting for `something to turn up'; John Childs gives an excellent description of the attempted restoration of 1692; and there is the haunting story of Toby Burke, an Irishman who was Jacobite ambassador to Spain, who was ordered to Sweden to attempt to gain Swedish support for an invasion. After an arduous journey, he receives orders near the Danish border to return to Spain as the Swedes have changed allegiance. On the return Burke's wife dies and his family (travelling by ship) are kidnapped by Barbary pirates, eventually to be ransomed.  <br /> <br />One difficulty I have with the book is that it does not give a sense of the evolution of policy in the Court - the early years 1690-93, being ones of quiet confidance of the overthow of William, 1693-97 being less assured, the 1697 accommodation between Louis XIV and William being a major reversal for the Stuarts.  Thereafter the increasingly desperate search for allies among the Courts of Europe.  <br />However for someone interested in this area, the book provides a number of interesting views and sources.   <br />	2005-04-09
US	35906535	R1PVQJMW0DTIMA	0007154615	958226210	Unless: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Excellent writing, a tremendous read....	. <br />I first heard this book when an extract was read over the radio - a piece in which the author is preparing dinner for the family and waiting for her mother-in-law to come over. <br />The style of writing was so clear and inviting that I bought the book. Though Shields subject matter is quite different, the clarity of the style and the ability to evoke an environment reminded me of another of the greats - John McGahern. <br /> <br />The book takes a number of risks in that the main character is an author - Reta Winters - whose minor preoccupations include her current book, her relationship with her publisher and her friends who come together in a weekly writing circle.   This could become hugely self-referential, but  such is the skill employed this does not cloud the picture.   The story is told in the first person - another risk, as it could become really heavy going, but serves to highlight Reta's confusion, concern and emerging awareness.  <br /> <br />Reta's main preoccupation is with her eldest daughter who has dropped out of college and is homeless in Toronto; and yet this story is a backdrop - the action takes place in Reta's suburban world.    <br /> <br />One of the things I found most alarming about the book is the fact the Reta's family - husband, two other daughters and mother-in-law are quite distant characters - even though she says they are a close family, it is the descriptions of and conversations with Reta's female friends which outline her thinking.  Her description of her home-life as being loving is not reflected in the movement of the story. <br /> <br />Reta's anxiety finds expression in a series of letters she writes (but does not post) to various authors of articles she comes across, decrying their lack of attention to women in their fields.  Her contention through the book is that women are born powerless in society and that this results in all sorts of symptoms - perhaps including her daughters withdrawal from the world.   I am notclear whether this is Shields actual view or whether she attributes this to Reta's trying to find some meaning in her predicament.  Shields' conversation pieces are excellent, there is a description of an interview which Reta has with a male journalist which bristles with suppressed anger; while on the surface being professional and polite. She describes another conversation between Reta and a friend - a less successful author - where Reta describes the joy of gift shopping (I came as close to understanding its appeal as I every likely too!) and produces a scarf which Reta has bought for her daughter.  Reta's friend misunderstands, seizes the scarf as if it were a gift for herself; leaving Reta dumbfounded.  This piece was deliciously described, and, I think, also intended to show that Reta's thoughts about women being excluded because of their gender, is rather simplistic and not the author's view. <br /> <br />My only major problem about the book was the ending.  Throughout we had been led through a description of domestic life - disturbed by the withdrawal of the eldest daughter, but otherwise carrying on with the usual mixture of upsets and routine.  We have not been led to expect any answers or major revelations - indeed one of Reta's concerns is that her husband's search for an answer to why their daughter dropped out <br />Will lead him to despair, when and if he finds no one cause.   And then, in the final chapter, everything is explained - not just for the daughter's problem, but the mother-in-law swings in with explanations of her issues and the story is wrapped with causes.  Its not a `happily-ever-after', but it does smack of `that's all right then, if we know the cause, I'm sure we can fix it'. Life's not that neat.  <br /> <br />This one problem apart, this is a tremendous book, gently paced, executed with great craft, illustrating the depths of concerns that lie within seemingly everyday life. <br />	2005-04-09
US	35906535	R2ZHNY4GO0OO98	0300087284	99669519	James II (The English Monarchs Series)	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	fair-minded and authoritative account of James' reign	James II has been vilified as representing monarchical absolutism and militant Catholicism almost since the 1688 revolution.   How such a tyrant could have been  <br />Removed from power by a bloodless coup  (in England at any rate) sits somewhat uneasily with the accepted wisdom.  Miller paints a more complex picture of James eventful early life - escaping from Cromwell, shadowing his elder brother around Europe.  He gives a fair account of James prowess as a naval commander and his organisational and administrative skills in the later years of the reign Charles II. <br />James was torn between his complete loyalty to Charles and his conversion to Catholicism in the 1680's, Charles also showed both exasperation and loyalty towards his rather awkward brother - preferring Monmouth, his natural (though not legitimate) son, but insisting that James be his successor, despite increasingly virulent opposition. <br /> James came to view the fact of his succession - despite many travails, false alarms in terms of Charles producing a legitimate heir, and almost hysterical Whig opposition -  as a sign of divine favour. Miller also points out that , for most of his reign James accepted that William of Orange - a Protestant married to his Protestant daughter, Mary - would be his successor. This gave impetus to James to improve the plight of his co-religionists and explains his haste to do so.  However Parliamentary opposition to an Act of Toleration led James both to use his power to dispense with Parliamentary acts for particular individuals and to attempt to shape Parliamentary support for his proposals.  Both acts were interpreted (after the Revolution) as proof of his authoritarianism.  His need for a standing army became an even great cause for concern as he began to nominate more Catholic officers.   In actual fact Miller shows James as acting in the tradition of the later years of Charles' rule - attempting to influence the selection and election of loyal parliamentarians, and Miller argues that James' view on legislation, dispensing and suspending powers were at least legally arguable.  James did overstep the mark by attempting to populate the judiciary with loyalists (or toadies). <br /> Miller's view however is that having succeeded in getting the most loyal parliament in 1685, James failed to recognize the limits of his parliamentary support. <br />Having failed to win parliament to toleration, he believed he could again reshape parliament to elect people more amenable to toleration.  In this he was, to say the least, poorly advised; and this effort, combined with its consequent attack on the Church of England, led to the fall off in support which led to the invitation to William of Orange to come and help sort out the situation.   <br /> Once William landed - undeterred by French threats, the English Navy and Winter weather - James' belief in Providence seems to have collapsed and he viewed the subsequent desertions by his family and officers as a Divine punishment for past sins. <br />His subsequent years seemed almost to embrace the failure to regain his position and he was viewed by Louis XIV as a figure of sympathy and pity.   <br /> Millers scholarship and use of direct contemporary sources is most comprehensive, his judgements of James are clear, direct and credible.   This is a book to be cherished.    <br />	2005-03-21
US	35906535	R1ANM9MANVZA13	3442541751	186235878	Russendisko	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A wry look at life as a Russian immigrant to Germany	I read the English Translation of this book (by Michael Huise)   This book is a series of bite-sized essays relating the experience of the author as he and friends leave Russia for Germany around the fall of the Berlin wall.  Each essay shows the author and his friends grappling with and generally besting various authorities.  His father celebrates the opening up of Russian society during the Gorbachov years by advising him to emigrate for `Liberty is only passing through' and the best way to celebrate Russian freedom is to get out as fast as possible.      The first story made me laugh out loud, various Russians came to Germany by claiming that they were of Jewish origin.  Once this trickle started to become a flood the Germans introduced some elementary questioning to establish whether the incomers were indeed of Jewish heritage - this situation is fraught enough - however the newcomers repeated some doggerel and innuendo straight out of the anti-semitic Protocols of Zion to `prove' their Jewishness.    The story telling is compelling and tends to make the reader follow one essay with the next, however I think the book is best read periodically, as I finished the second half of the book in one go, and found the stories blended one into another.	2005-03-21
US	35906535	R2N4YDKMHMSTP1	0226907384	157834078	Clarendon: Politics, History and Religion, 1640-60 (Midway reprint)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent exposition of Clarendon between 1640-60	This book, written in 1951, is taken to mark the start of a reassessment of the Royalist position in British Civil War and Restoration studies. That is to say that prior to this time the dominant themes were that while Cromwell perhaps went to far, that in general those who opposed monarchy were principled and victorious  and those who supported monarchy were misguided, deluded and devious.   <br /> Wormald describes Clarendon's activities - both parliamentary, diplomatic and literary during the years 1640-60, and establishes Clarendon as a Loyalist - i.e. faithful to a limited monarchy, in opposition to the King up to about 1641, when he felt that parliamentary opposition to Charles I exceeded its own powers.  Wormald brilliantly establishes the differences between Clarendon's contemporary actions - in favour  of the existence of limitations on both the  monarchy and the established Church, - and his subsequent writings -written in hindsight, from exile - wherein he aligns himself with the winning argument.  Thus while his writings would lead us to the view that Clarendon was in favour of a powerful, comprehensive Church of England, with little or no toleration, Wormald indicates that in fact Clarendon considered an established Church, represented in Parliament as necessary for the proper running of the state, he also indicates that the powerful position which the Church of England seized in the Restoration settlement probably exceeded what Clarendon envisaged; and was brought about more by the vacuum created by Charles II's lack of a clear vision, and Clarendon's need to find  reliable Parliamentary support. <br /> Wormald also indicates the relationship between Charles II and Clarendon, and gives a clear view of Clarendon's loyal but essentially passive support during the long European exile, during which he fought to preserve a `Loyalist' view opposing both the militarism of the French-leaning royalists and Charles' various compromises with Presbyterians and Scots.  Clarendon's view was that the internal contradictions of the Parliamentarians would, ultimately, lead to their implosion and the Restoration of the monarchy, however, over the years he responded mainly with passivity to the various schemes to re-impose the Monarchy through invasion and/or internal revolt.  This passivity led in the years after the Restoration to an indolence which ultimately brought about his downfall in the wake of the Second Dutch War - this last is beyond the scope of the book. <br /> Overall the book is the fruit of extensive research and gifted analysis. I find it too forgiving of Charles I - indicating that he negotiated with Parliament in the hope that Parliament would collapse, thereby invalidating any agreements reached; this seems to forgive Charles his duplicity - and royalist authoritarianism.  The book covers only a period of Clarendon's life, and some prereading would be necessary to get the full backround - of Clarendon's humble origins, his rise to power with the members of the Tew circle would be especially useful.  <br /> <br />	2005-03-21
US	35906535	R3DSEC5NABCMHU	0198811543	809125565	England in the Reigns of James II and William III (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Clear, though biased, history of the early modern period.	Clear, though biased, history of the early modern period. <br /> <br />This book was written in the mid 1950's and, like Ogg's other similiar tome - England in the Reign of Charles II - this books shows the bias of its time.  James II ascended to the throne in 1685 and abandoned it in 1688 in the face of a bloodless invasion and coup by William of Orange, James' son in law.  Oggs viewpoint as a `whig' historian is clearly on display - James is shown to be tyrannical, quashing opposition with judicial violence, promoting state power at the expense of parliamentary power, advancing Popery at the expense of the Church of England.   There is not one good word about James in the volume, Ogg weaves the story of his intransigence, his lack of  principle, his authoritarianism and his ultimate failure of will into one story, despite the contradictions that stem from these features. Not one of his appointees is seen as being principled, the Catholic are all schemers, his Protestant councillors corrupt. <br />William III is shown in a much better light - Ogg states that Willliam's vetoing of Parliamentary Acts showed the respect he had for Parliament - if he vetoed one, it meant he would abide by those which he enacted - so unlike a Stuart!. He is excellent in describing the tensions between William and parliament, and the mutual incomprehension of both sides. <br /> Historical thinking has moved beyond the views expressed here, to see James as continuing the centralizing function of his brother's (Charles II) later years, and to see some elements of his reign increasing the efficiency, and therefore the power, of the state. James' views may also have been interpreted as a plea for toleration - not achieved for another hundred years.  However, none of this is reflected in this book. <br /> This major flaw aside, the book is a tour-de-force of the period, the political, religious philosophies are well exposed, the emergence of a political society, the beginnings of Britain as amajor power in Continental Europe, the advances in trade, science and, in the final chapter, he covers some of major thinkers of the age.  He lauds Britain's ability in refining the art of `living in society', so fraught in the 1600's, finally coming to some compromise and stability in the 1700's. <br />	2005-01-29
US	35906535	R1H3H239P89640	0312421176	439605009	Spies: A Novel	Books	2	1	4	N	N	John Updike liked it, but it just didn't appeal to me	I liked Fryan's play Copenhagen, I thought it intellectually stimulating, courageously able to deal with scientific topics and I loved the unravelling of the layers of meaning. <br />So I was eager to read this novel.  Like many recent novels (Curious incident of the Dog in the Night, Vernon God Little) it is written from the viewpoint of a small boy.    <br /> The setting is Second World War Britain, and while the story is involving I just did not get moved by it.  I was continuously reminded of the stories of Richmal Compton - just William, about the adventures of an eleven year old boys, his friends and their interaction with the adult world.  In Spies there is even an annoying local girl - Compton's book had Violet `Violent' Elizabeth, Frayn has Barbara Berrill.   <br /> Between the Just William flashbacks and the feeling that the style was following a trend, I found it hard to warm to the story.  That being said, the story flows well, the book is quite a quick read, the story is told with style - shifting between first and third person descriptions as the character moves in and out of reminiscences, there are excellent evocations of the memories, smells and atmosphere however the expectations which I had on starting the book were  not realized <br />	2005-01-29
US	35906535	R9AZ92PL2A3Z	0060006870	625390695	Summerhouse, Later: Stories	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Magnificent , descriptive and yet remote	<br />This book is set of short stories translated from German.   I am not sure whether it is the authors gift or this gift in combination with the translation which give these stories their sense of remoteness and in some cases alienation.  In most fiction, the author strives to involve the reader as closely as possible with the character and the narrative, however in these stories, the reader is held at a remove, the characters seem to carry on almost  in suspended animation and at times the stories do not work towards an understandable conclusion.   However for all that, they are magnificent, memorable and thought provoking.   I won't say more, read them <br />	2005-01-03
US	35906535	RCLS7XGPZCCFL	0198200811	675238609	Britain in Revolution: 1625-1660	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Excellent overview of  evolution of the Cromwellian Years.	A wonderful exposition of the complicated evolution of the Cromwellian Years. <br /> <br />Woolrych, a distinguished historian, whose depth of scholarship is matched by a lightness of expression which makes this a very accessible and enjoyable read.  He introduces the various characters and their shifting alliances and the spectrum of opinion very lucidly.    <br />I think the positive points area the following  <br /> <br />1. excellent description of the evolution of the opposition to Charles I,  great feeling of the gradual coming to power of Cromwell and the interplay between the pragmatic and dogmatic parliamentarian forces.  For the initial period the main opposition to Charles came from the powerful lords and it is only the division of the initial opposition forces and the prospect of defeat which leads to the creation of the efficient New Model Army and the rise of Cromwell and Faifax,  this is accompanied by the rise in influence of the  Commons and the Army  <br />2. the power of religious belief - the spectrum of belief (and fanaticism) is well described, and the divisions among various proponents, and the ultimate division between dogmatism and pragmatism is well described.  <br />3. Cromwell's pragmatic foreign policies - especially the opposition to the Dutch, co-religionists but commercial rivals; and the cooperation with the French and the acquisition of Dunkirk to deter naval invasion. <br />4.  the book is strong in pointing towards the political traditions which would become more explicit in the party wars of the Restoration era.  There are hints of the emergence of the privy council in the descriptions of `Protectorate Council' which advised Cromwell.  Unfortunately the records of this council do not exist, but there are some fascinating characters - Shaftesbury, Sandwich - introduced here, who have major impacts in later years.  <br /> <br />However  the veneration of Cromwell, in my view, goes to far.  His implacable opposition to Catholicism reached its nadir in the Irish massacres, I feel Woolrych goes to far in saying that they were comparable to other sieges of the time and that the worst of the them were outside his control.   Woolrych is justified in admiring Cromwell's fortitude and determination, and reveals his rather surprising periods of indecision (awaiting a sign from the Almighty), however I think the portrait should also call the ruthlessness for what it was. <br /> A more major flaw, I think, is that it is quite difficult to grasp `popular' opinion from the text. The action is told in terms of high diplomacy, parliamentary and military history - for which records exists and clear-cut choices and consequences can be adduced.  It is less easy to interpret from the text, how the mood of the population changed during the time - was the time of the Commonwealth and Protectorate gloomy and oppressive?  Why was the 1660 Restoration welcomed with such popular enthusiasm, but Charles II Scottish-led invasion in the early 1650's ignored?  At the risk of some speculation it is possible to infer reasons - and work by Tim Harris has given some insight into contemporary `popular' thinking, however it is not to be found here. <br /> <br /> Overall I found this book to be an excellent description of military and political history of the era, it is a comprehensive introduction to trying to make sense of the political controversies which dogged the later Stuarts and led to the 1688 revolution.  It leaves me wishing to know more about the evolution of  popular opinion and the mechanism of governance during the Commonwealth and Protectorate eras. <br />	2005-01-03
US	35906535	R3U6JNOZ3WZPHN	1840187255	886656436	Martin McGuinness: From Guns to Government	Books	1	11	16	N	Y	A bad-tempered, bleak biography showing the futility of viol	Liam Clarke and Kathryn Johnston  are journalists who have covered the political conflict in Northern Ireland for many years. This is a biography of one of the central characters in the IRA.  The authors give some description of the times - poverty, commercial discrimination, political gerrymandering - which convinced a significant minority of the nationalist population that Northern Ireland had to change radically. They give some coverage to the reasons given by various militant Republicans - McGuinness  among them - for taking up arms, mainly that the reaction of the British (and Unionist) state to the struggle for Civil Rights was violent and had to be met with violence.<br /><br />However it is plain that Clarke and Johnston see the thirty years of IRA violence and the thousands of lives which were lost as purely futile and corrupting.  They have no basic tolerance for the reasons given for the continuation of armed struggle and, as such, their opinions become front and centre of this biography.  Their basic argument is that the deal which brought about the Good Friday Agreement was little different from the deal on offer twenty five years previously at Sunningdale and that the intervening years had seen thousands of people killed, maimed and jailed. They further point out that the only difference between the two agreements was the participation of Sinn Fein and infer, therefore that the violence was really a struggle for power within the nationist community; which Sinn Fein won, at the price of given up their revolutionary aspirations.<br /><br />While most or all of this may be true, this belief sets the tone for the book itself, and paints McGuinness as cynical, ruthless, effective mainly in self-preservation. The interviews serve mainly to emphasise these traits, and I think ultimately turns the reader away from the views espoused.  I was also not convinced that McGuinness provided the key thinking on the various changes in strategy that the movement took over years, though the authors seem to think McGuinness greatly influenced these moves.  I did not find the evidence convincing - indeed it seemed to me that McGuinness is more an executor (pun intended) than a strategist.<br /><br />The book is extremely effective in highlighting the callous, ruthlessness of most of the IRA operations, the ineffectual nature of the campaign led to more and more civilian deaths, the effectiveness of the British authorities led to a widening of the catagories of IRA `legitimate targets' to encompass anyone who dealt with the authorities, and yet more and more innocents were being killed.<br /><br />There is a book to be written on whether the Sinn Fein leadership are the ultimate cynical politicians, using violence for publicity for over thirty years , and ultimately using the promise of peace to extort votes and a measure of political power. There is also a view that a movement which started in rage and wanted revolution, moved slowly and painfully towards politics having exhausted every other possibility (and at a fearful price in innocent blood).  It also needs to be recognized that that IRA did not possess the only (or even an effective ) veto on political progress in Northern Ireland, however their actions justified a  Unionist veto for longer than it might otherwise have lasted.<br /><br />This book is written from too convinced a political viewpoint to be an effective biography, and as such I am sorry I read it.  A much more effective and convincing book on the evolution of Sinn Fein is `The Secret History of the IRA' by Ed Moloney, Read that instead.er years, though the authors seem to think McGuinness greatly influenced these moves.  I did not find the evidence convincing - indeed it seemed to me that McGuinness is more an executor (pun intended) than a strategist.<br /><br />The book is extremely effective in highlighting the callous, ruthlessness of most of the IRA operations, the ineffectual nature of the campaign led to more and more civilian deaths, the effectiveness of the British authorities led to a widening of the catagories of IRA `legitimate targets' to encompass anyone who dealt with the authorities, and yet more and more innocents were being killed.<br /><br />There is a book to be written on whether the Sinn Fein leadership are the ultimate cynical politicians, using violence for publicity for over thirty years , and ultimately using the promise of peace to extort votes and a measure of political power. There is also a view that a movement which started in rage and wanted revolution, moved slowly and painfully towards politics having exhausted every other possibility (and at a fearful price in innocent blood).  It also needs to be recognized that that IRA did not possess the only (or even an effective ) veto on political progress in Northern Ireland, however their actions justified a  Unionist veto for longer than it might otherwise have lasted.<br /><br />This book is written from too convinced a political viewpoint to be an effective biography, and as such I am sorry I read it.  A much more effective and convincing book on the evolution of Sinn Fein is `The Secret History of the IRA' by Ed Moloney, Read that instead.	2005-01-03
US	35906535	R281SSUG8LFOG5	019285142X	46451102	England in the Reign of Charles II (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A book written in the 1960s but well worth reading	Very lucid description of the political, religious and economic systems of the era.<br /><br />Ogg gives an excellent description of the differences between the three Kingdoms, while clearly illustrating the subservience of Ireland and Scotland to England.  He is quite scathing about the duplicitous character of Charles II, the only point Ogg can find in his favour is that in compromising to avoid domestic conflict and in his double-dealing in foreign policy, Charles ensured an era of peace in which the commerce flourished.  However he is scathing about Charles debauchery, his corruption, his (ab)use of his councillors and the general `unEnglishness' of his Court and influences.<br /><br />However the history centres on the development of English society rather than the Court of Charles II. There are excellent descriptions of the events of the period - the Restoration Settlement  and the Popish Plot are described in great detail and with relish.<br /><br />Ogg shows how adroit the Anglican Church was during this period - with the Restoration of the House of Lords, the Anglican Bishops resumed their place and regained  political power  - successfully opposing the toleration which Charles had proposed at Breda.  In essence Charles Breda Declaration had left a lot of power to parliament - in terms of retribution, toleration and settlement - and the Bishops used this fact to entrench themselves and Anglicanism and to oppose toleration.  At the same time, they formally gave up a large amount of (titular) power in terms of reducing the rights of the Ecclesiastical Courts, and ensured that they made common cause with Charles' councillors - at first Clarendon, later Danby, who needed to be able to guarantee Charles  parliamentary support.  The Bishops ability to manoeuvre in the shifting sands of Restoration politics is well outlined here, and one is left wanting to know more.<br /><br />Another point Ogg introduces is the commercial challenge which the Dutch represented and the fact that although two wars were fought with the Dutch, Britain's eventual commercial success resulted more from a conscious repositioning of Britains naval trade towards long distance commerce with the American colonies, Africa and the Spanish Empire.  Thus the importance of the Navigation Acts, Britain's relations with Spain and the structure and nature of the change in Britain's commercial and naval shipbuilding industry are introduced.  Again this is well described and whet's ones appetite for more.<br /><br />There are excellent descriptions of the development of parliamentary opposition, the evolution of the powers of the houses of Lords and Commons and the implementation of local government and its interaction with the administration of  common law. While very<br /><br />England centred the book also takes some note of the emergence of France as the dominant European power and makes the best sense I have so far read of the relationship between Louis and Charles - most descriptions I have seen so far describe Charles as a client of Louis, and Ogg describes the various requests Charles made for French money, he also describes the lengths Charles went to,  to avoid actually doing anything tangible in return for this cash.  So is it more (or less) corrupt if the client doesn't do anything in return for the bribes? In relation to the Stuarts Ogg finds Charles possessed of a gift for compromise, indolence, corruption and self preservation and, if anything, James possessed even worse traits.<br /><br />The only negative point I could find about the book was the speed at which it draws to a conclusion, Charles is dispatched in half a page and the last chapter recounts the thinking of some of the notable learned Englishmen of the age - Newton, Boyle, Locke, Hobbs, Halifax among others.  I found this ending less than satisfying as it seemed out of context with the flow of the rest of the book and I was expected a greater amount of analysis of the era.<br /><br />However and excellent overview and introduction of the Restoration periodver and excellent overview and introduction of the Restoration period <br />	2005-01-03
US	35906535	R2EXQISS5KROF5	0679762108	709978746	The Sportswriter: Bascombe Trilogy (1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent, curious book.  Superb Craftsmanship	This is the original book about Frank Bascombe, a sportswriter who is not very into sports.  I read the sequel, Independence Day, and liked it, with liking the central character - a major achievement.  In this book Frank has the excuse - for me - of being numb following the loss, some years before, of his son.  The entire book is written in the first person, and, like the sequel, describes a short period of time - the Easter weekend.  The level of detail, the apparent banality of the events and the amount of introspection could make for heavy going, so it is  a tribute to Ford's craft that he can make this story quite readable, indeed intriguing.<br /><br /> As in Independence Day, Bascombe's world view could be described as `Comfortably Numb', he is content, if not happy, with his broken marriage, being close (physically and emotionally) to his remaining children, and with his current (failing) relationship. He describes his work - sportswriter - as one in which he can indulge without commitment, major expertise or intense effort, which is not what one would associate with the USA.  I have more sympathy for Bascombe in this novel due to his bereavement, but Ford seems to imply that this listless, aimlessness could be a permanent condition, in which case it would seem to me to be a bleak message.  But perhaps the point Ford is trying to make is that there is no message, that he is describing a character adrift, without the energy to make definite choices.<br /><br /> A very rewarding read.	2004-09-21
US	35906535	RO9LJXXQOKZFG	0710064462	367402929	Jacobite Ireland, 1685-91 (Study in Irish History , 2nd)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Very clear, readable account of Jacobite civil war in Irelan	This is a very informative account of the almost haphazard Civil War between  <br />James II and William of Orange which was fought out in Ireland in 1690-1.    The  <br />Restoration of Charles II to the British throne in 1660, was not accompanied by any restoration of Irish land confiscated by Cromwell in the preceeding twenty years.  This was a cause of contention in Ireland, however the prospect of the ascension of a Catholic monarch (James II) held the prospect of restitution for the disposed.  <br /> James's actual ascension in 1685 proved to be a time of anticipation and nervousness for the haves and have nots in Ireland.  He  appointed Tyrconnell his viceroy and Catholics felt their time had come. When James fled to France after the Coup d'Etat in England, Tyrconnell urged resistance to William and made moves to seize control.   James, somewhat reluctantly, landed in Ireland and the Jacobite cause seized almost the entire island - except some areas of the north.    James called a Parliament in Dublin to try to raise money for an invasion of England, however the parliament proved very divisive as James was reluctant to restore Catholic land holdings  at the expense of current (mainly Protestant) holders, for fear of alarming England.  The Parliament disillusioned potential Irish support, without  encouraging English opposition to William. <br /> The main part of the book concerns the battles, which James and William fought in Ireland. Despite initial success James's forces were quite indecisive and divided and, as soon as William started to succeed large numbers of the Jacobite forces changed sides - quite a number of battles seemed to have been lost due to treachery, and most of the reasons for the Jacobites continuing to fight were due to William's uncompromising postion in regard to negotiation.  <br /> The battle and Treaty of Limerick was the final stage in the struggle - James having left Ireland, Tryconnel having died - the Jacobite remnants negotiatedand extraordinary surrender, where those who swore loyalty could recover their lands, and those who did not could be transported to France , by Williams fleet, to fight William's forces on the Continent!  The legal complexities of this treaty form the centre piece of another of Simm's works entitled \\"The Williamite Confiscations\\" <br /> Overall this is an excellent read, very clear about a muddled and controversial period of Irish history. <br />	2004-09-21
US	35906535	RJF68E8L0HEAZ	0895260697	219475797	Rumsfeld's War: The Untold Story of America's Anti-Terrorist Commander	Books	2	20	27	N	N	Good on facts and backround, too much praise to be credible.	The author is a Pentagon correspondent for  the Washington Times and therefore can be assumed to have good backround and contacts.  I was quite interested in Rumsfeld because of his prominence and eloquence.  The book gives a good account of decision making in regard to the Afghan and Iraq wars, and gives the motivation behind the ongoing transformation of the US armed forces which is Rumsfelds particular concern.  I was quite interested in Rumsfelds backround - in particular his time in private business. He was CEO of JD Searle, the firm that made a fortune from Nutrasweet - somehow its difficult to associate Rumsfeld with sweetners!.  Overall he is displayed as decisive, change-orientated, pugnacious, eloquent but fair.  In between the lines you get the impression that he is a formidable political infighter. <br /> I have, however,  a basic credibility problem with the book - how can the author continue to work as a Pentagon journalist if he paints a negative picture of  Rumsfeld?.  I come away wondering if the books analysis is accurate, I'm sure the facts are, but what about the inferences.  Tommy Franks, in retirement, regrets Rumsfelds micromanaging style - something not apparent in this book.  Is Rumsfeld's transformation of the military - and his adherence to Special Operations, flexibility and agility - likely to bring about victory in the ongoing struggles for dominance in Iraq or Afghanistan?    It may bring about an ability to concentrate firepower in any corner of the globe, but what happens thereafter?  This is not discussed and I think is a central part of the debate.   I also think that Rumsfelds is the most talented political operator and communicator in this Administration, but is this a good thing?  Does he concentrate power in the Pentagon to the detriment of the diplomacy that is needed in order to win Allies for the War on Terror?  Again you won't find a whisper about this topic in the book. <br /> So overall a good grounding, some solid backround facts, however I am left wanting more critical analysis of this transformative and forceful Defense Secretary.  <br /> <br />	2004-09-21
US	35906535	RJ0TDHA9JYKG3	0837193060	214477920	Williamite Conf	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Specialist topic, surprisingly engaging.	A curious book, describing a confict which was seen by both main protagonists as a sideshow to the main stuggle for dominance.  <br />  William of Orange fought the (Irish) Jacobite forces in 1690 and 1691. Though William;s forces achieved superiority in July 1690 at the Battle of the Boyne, the Jacobite forces fought on for another eighteen months, finally surrendering at the Treaty of Limerick.  <br />William;s forces were increasingly anxious to finish the Irish campaign wishing to consolidate their hold on England and pursue the struggle against the French on the continent.  Therefore they issued increasingly attractive terms to induce the Irish Jacobites to surrender, thus after the Boyne, William declared that anyone who surrendered would not be punished and could keep their possessions (though not their lands),  while by the following year, anyone who was declared to be within area controlled by the Jacobites, could keep their estates if they surrendered.  This created a huge anomaly, and was largely worked out by letting most former rebels keep their estates. <br /> <br />The book describes the ensuing power struggle between William, who wanted to reward his favourites with whatever lands were forfeit by Jacobites who fled (interestingly most who stayed managed to hold onto their lands);  the English Parliament which wanted to sell the forfeit lands to defray the expense of the campaign and the Irish (mostly Protestant) Parliament  who wanted to ensure that Catholics did not buy the forfeit lands and who wanted to assert their independence of the English parliament.  <br />The legal wranglings - surprisingly formal and well documented.  went on for the best part of a decade and form the basis of the book.  In the end the English Parliament largely won, William, due to his increasing dependence on money voted by the English Parliament , had to yield. The Irish parliament was largely sidestepped, however all three parties were intent on the suppression of Catholicism, and the laws introduced in both parliaments in the early 1700's prohibiting  inheritance of real estate by  Catholics, served to drastically reduce the number of Catholics among the landed gentry, who formed the political class of the times. <br />	2004-09-21
US	35906535	R3JI79AH6DVUBE	0340625023	930217186	The Stuart Parliaments, 1603-1689 (Reconstruction in Early Modern History Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fascinating look at the evolution of Parliament.	<br /> This book is divided into two - the first part discusses the structure of parliament, its origin and place within 17th Century society.  The second parts gives a narrative of the events of that century, with  parliament playing a central role.     To my mind the first part is the more fascinating - the fact thatparliament saw itself as a rather confused amalgam of law giver, judicial seat and advisor to the King often brought it into conflict with the King and society and yet Parliament - and especially the Commons - had the ability to cope with these contradictions and thrive.   Smith also paints this amalgam in the context of the confusion of the British Constitution - was the King above the three estates (Lords, Clergy, Commons) or part of them (King, Lords, Commons)?.  These ambiguities left enough room for the emergence of various forms of government through the century and enough common ground for their eventual resolution as part of the Restoration compromise.  Through the text Smith gives a lucid explanation of the origins of Private Bills (partly a judicial function) - which were to seem so corrupt in later years, and the power of impeachment and attainder which were to be used to such partisan effect.   If you want a lucid, single volume introduction to British politics in the 17th Century this is the place to start.  <br />	2004-07-29
US	35906535	R1FHXUO4OQ64WD	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	2	3	47	N	N	Ho-hum, sea-shanty	<br />The continuing story of the exploits of Aubery and Maturin.   <br />A mixture of derring-do, and unrequited romance and high seas.  <br />  <br />I like the story, however I feel that the fact that there is a series of stories perhaps devalues each individual story.   I also would like to be sure that the action parts are based on some reality - the enthusiasts for the series say that it is, and the writing has  a realistic historical flavour; however the 'top-gallants a lee, bring 'er about, nicely lads' stuff could just as easily be gobbledook for all I know.   <br /> <br /> As a true son of Erin, I am quite happy with the reversal of usual  stereotype - to have the English partner (Aubery) as a bluff, rash, unreflective type, and the Irish (or Catalan) type as reserved, intellectual, reflective but deadly.    <br />p.s. this one also has requited and unrequited long distance love, perhaps to interest the Signoritas.	2004-07-29
US	35906535	R2XYU2XFKA06A2	000686158X	795020483	Catholics, Anglicans and Puritans: Seventeenth Century Essays	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent essays on British Constitutional topics C17th	<br /> <br /> A curious mixture of essays, the overall effect showing that even in the 17th Century people looked back on 'the good old days' - Milton et al looked back on pre-Saxon times as the age to be re-invoked, and most people felt that the Elizabethan Age was a glory that should be re-established.   The best essays (I think) are those on Archbishop Ussher and on John Milton.  The  depth of learning is marvellous - as you would expect from this author, but the clarity and lucidity of the telling is very refreshing.  I really enjoy his ability to tell a complex story - including the various characters who move through the tale - in a way which does not compromise either the complexity or the clarity of the historians point of view.  His admiration of Milton's prose and his unease at Milton's arrogance and self-seeking loyalities is palpable, he is more perplexed at Ussher - no surprise perhaps in regard to a man who received pensions from King, Parliament and Lord Protector - during a time when these were mortal enemies.   <br /> <br /> There are essays about Laudianism and the Great Tew circle, which are very informative, but for me lacked the passionate curiosity of the other essays.  The Tew circle was a group of friends - Clarendon, Hobbs and others - who met regularly in the 1630s for intellectual debates, and the essay traces their later lives and interactions.   <br /> <br /> The most curious essay in the first, about a minor character called Nicholas Hill, and I found it the most 'showy' of the essays, and quite unworthy of inclusion.  Its assumptions are based on, at best, inferences about sources, motives and families, and its purpose seemed to be to show Trevor-Roper's depth of knowledge, surely something not in much doubt. <br /> <br /> The overall work invokes the times - the centrality of religious beliefs to intellectual (and political) life, the enormous pressures of reformation (as the Elizabethan compromise, -episcopacy, national religion etc) , counter reformation (Catholic resurgence in Europe)  and  re-reformation (Calvinism and Millenarianism).   The fact that in the 1630s that Counter Reformation was seen as close to extinguishing Protestantism is quite clear, and shows us the motivation for some of the more extreme reactions we see at the time - in Holland as much as in England.  Trevor Roper gives us a good analogy between the Unitarian Greek Church and the Church of England, which puts some badly-needed European context on the development of Anglicanism <br />	2004-07-29
US	35906535	R9ZHLIKDFDDE0	0971786178	903300162	Managing Information Technology for Business Value: Practical Strategies for IT and Business Managers (IT Best Practices series)	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	Solid outline of the requirements for systemised IT mgt.	Imagine you manage a utility, your customers expect your service anytime they want it, anywhere they happen to be, and at a low price. So far it's a pretty complex job, now imagine that your utility is subject to almost continuous innovation, with substantial changes happening every three to five years, and industry-transforming changes occurring approximately once a decade.  Your customers expect all the new stuff, anytime, everywhere and cheaper than before. And, if that's not enough, your suppliers emit enough hype to make Hollywood blush, every new release is a blockbuster and a must-have. <br /> Such is the life of the IT manager, or in larger organisations the CIO, Chief Information Officer - which, as the author suggests, could also translate as 'Career Is Over'.   This book provides a framework for harassed IT executives to attempt to an organisational  self-assessment  , and outlines a methodology of getting closer to the customer.  The framework is based on the Capability Maturity Model - a familiar concept originally designed to inculcate Quality Systems into software design- and builds a case for describing the evolution of IT departments from chaos through technical service provide to business partner.  The methodology can be summarized as aligning IT  products and services with customer requirements, and highlighting the costs of IT products and services i.e. being more explicit about 'pay-per-use' costings, so customers will budget as well as demand.  There are good real-world examples of decisions taken, business cases ratified and changes justified and implemented through the book. <br /> <br /> The target reader is one who is part of a large IT organisation within an even larger corporate organisation, and is based on the author's experience in Intel, whose IT department has 4,000 people and a budget of 1billion [page 228]. In this world one department can become remote from another, and basic business processes need to be continuously clarified and communicated. The author recommends the use of account mangers and IT marketing departments to break through communications barriers - within the same company!. It did occur to me that, somewhere in this need for internal corporate influencing, there is a Dilbert cartoon waiting to get out.  <br /> The book is strong on the methodology of governance of an IT function from the basics - do you have a list of IT assets? -   through to investing in new innovations using an options approach - in fact, read Chapter 8 first.  It occurs to me that the structural processes described in terms of steering committees, assessment methodologies, internal customer communication, external benchmarking militate against  the ideal of developing a management  which is  flexible, innovative and agile. I guess this is the challenge - obviously some rationale is necessary, some structure required to manage a large organisation and this structure obviously works for this organisation. It does bring to mind Clayton's Christensen's dilemma that even excellent organisations, can be misdirected by following their customers requirements and while focussed on continuous innovation can  miss an industry transforming wave. There is obviously a tension between becoming more customer focused in terms of service provision and the requirement to being agile and receptive to transformational innovations. <br /> A few quibbles.... One of the main tenets of the book is that IT departments must earn the trust of their business customers. There is curiously little said about techniques for managing quality of service issues, particularly for mission-critical applications. I expect large IT departments have qualification processes for introduction of new solutions, for measuring their quality, reliability and scalability, and I would have assumed that descriptions of how best to manage these - under real world conditions -  would occupy more of the text. <br />  The concept of making the customer more explicitly aware of the costs of IT services is mentioned, but this is not expanded to a discussion of vendor management.  With the advent of transaction based pricing strategies (e.g. Salesforce.com) it seems to me that software vendors may at last be forced to improve quality and customer service - as opposed to getting paid up-front licences and reluctantly providing 'support',  I would have welcomed an insiders view of whether this is a trend that's actually bearing fruit or yet more hype.   <br />  The research cited seems to be quite survey based, and left me feeling that just as in industry it's difficult to map IT-values to business values so in Information Systems research there is an absence of hard-numbers (and perhaps rigour?). This left me with the feeling that most of the research quoted was good on proposing frameworks, but unconvincing due to its being based on survey and observations. <br /> A couple of  smiles.... To an outsider there are a number of unintentional insights into the corporate world.   Through the text we had been introduced to Intel's CIO -  a man,  then mid-way through (page 177) we are introduced to a woman who is 'Intel's other CIO'. Presumably this is a transitional arrangement, but, on first sight, it occurred to me that Intel might be taking its failover strategy a bit too far.... . Also 'Directionally correct' is a term used through the book, and in the context seems to mean 'roughly accurate', but each time I read it I kept substituting 'close enough for government work', which I presume is not the intention at all. <br />   <br /> Overall this is a solid outline of the requirements for systemised management practices within the IT function. The book  provides a framework which IT management (and their customers) can use for self-assessment and goal setting, and outlines a number of tools and processes by which Intel's IT department attempts to provide explicit value to its corporate customers.  <br />	2004-07-29
US	35906535	R2DWO40CZCAWQR	0691006679	606966237	From Subsistence to Exchange and Other Essays	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Collection of influential essays, most however twenty years	These are essays, which in the main were dissenting from the received wisdom of the 1970s concerning Third World - that population expansion was `out of control' and keeping people in debt, that there existed a vicious cycle of deprivation and so on.<br />  His views on the supremacy of free trade, the counter productive nature of most forms of aid,  and good local governance have become mainstream opinions, however they were not always so.<br /> As this is a collection of transcripts and speeches, quite forceful language is used, and there is a lack of reference to empirical evidence, which I found quite disappointing - as anecdotal evidence is fine, but examples can also invoke counter examples e.g. if Hong Kong exemplifies the innate progress of motivated, free people in the absence of natural resources, secure boundaries and representative government then what does the economic progress of Mainland China represent?<br /> His positive essays - Land and People, Population, Honk Kong, Western Aid and the title essay are very thought provoking and convincing.  There is a challenging essay on egalitarianism - that people are born unequal in terms of talents, which is very thought provoking.  However I was unhappy with his critical essays - on  Western Guilt,  the Liberal Death Wish as these had the flavour of an after dinner speech in a particularly reactionary dinner party.  These seemed to be a wide ranging attack without purpose.  It is quite useful to propose that wealth is a result of differential economic activity, but how useful is it to propose that western guilt about slavery is misguided because Arab countries practiced slavery more brutally for longer?<br /> The book is worth reading for the title essay alone, and the introduction by Amartya Sen is erudite and intriguing.  The key emphasis of the book is on freedom as the basis for development, freeing the individual within society to make progress and to retain the benefits of that progress.	2004-07-01
US	35906535	R1Y40XN2KI9ZZ4	1862075808	785343650	Stasiland: True Stories from Behind the Berlin Wall	Books	4	23	23	N	N	A marvel, a must-read on totalitarianism	Anna Funder is an Australian who, somewhat aimlessly, finds herself in<BR>Berlin in the 1990s. Working in the media she takes a professional interest in gathering stories about East German and its all-pervasive security apparatus - The Stasi.  She visits museums filled with Stasi memorabilia, seeks interviews with former agents and victims.  The book is well written and evocative, it paints a realistic picture of everyday cruelty of the former regime - a wife put to her wits end trying to bury her husband who died in custody, families pressured to spy on each other and on friends - Funder quotes statistics which reveal that there was one Stasi officer for every 63 East Germans; Hitler's Gestapo had one agent for every 2,000.   The cases of the victims are heartbreaking, the effects on their personalities of the harassment, surveillance and torture they endured lasts beyond the reach of the old regime, through the supposed liberation.   <BR> She is quite effective on the attitude of today's German society to Ossies (former East Germans),  most former West Germans (Wessies) now feel that \\"they were Germans who had Communism for forty years  and went backwards, and all they want now is money to have big TV sets and holidays... It was an experiment and it failed\\".  Ossies on the other hand feel an amount of resentment that they now live in a society which is so unequal and relatively unsafe. This  resentment has spawned a cynical nostalgia for the old East Germany - Ostalgia. This outcome is astonishing to the outsider, but Funder's book carefully outlines how this has come to pass, since the optimism of the day's when the Berlin wall collapsed.<BR> She excellently outlines revealing vignettes  - the toilet minder, ex-East Berliner , who would like to travel, especially to visit China \\" to have a look at that Wall of theirs\\"; the former broadcaster, whose weekly propaganda program made him one of the most reviled figures of the Communist regime, who now rails against the reality TV show where people are locked into a house and observed via camera, their every move recorded - he calls it \\"Big Brozer\\" with unconscious irony- as a product of `The Australian Television Tyrant' {Murdoch}.<BR> She is less revealing when dealing with the ex-Stasi agents, whom she meets. They talk to her as an apparently neutral foreigner, but their description of the past is filled with minimization and evasion. Their bewilderment at the collapse of their entire belief system and  social structure is their most deeply felt emotion.<BR> The book strengths lie in the despair of the stories themselves, and the craft that Funder brings to their telling, the mixture of bewilderment, despair, comedy and banality with  which she makes the past and present so real. That said the weaknesses lie in her intrusion of her own story into the tale and her attempts at analysis.   Funder is the thread along which the story advances - the tales of her acquaintances, her journalistic assignments mingle in the narrative. For the most part this works, however it can be over-instrusive, in particular when includes some dream sequences.<BR>As an outside in Germany, she fails on when using German self analysis - e.g. Tucholsky's observation that all Germans grovel in front of counters and aspire to sit behind them -  is fine for a German to make, but smacks of intrusion into a family quarrel when used by an outsider.  Occasionally the commentary will lapse into German exceptionalism - what is it about the Germans and their lack of self esteem that makes them co-operate with oppression and totalitarianism.   Its seems to me that this  is not too far from the views expressed in the book \\"Hitler's willing Executioners\\", and is equally fatuous.  It is a myth that societies react selflessly in the face of coercive repression, the French faced it for four years in World War II, Eastern Europe for forty years.  Funder's book would be better without these judgmental side tracks.  <br /> That being said, it's a wonderful read. There are heat breaking stories of peoples still living with the impact of their treatment by the  Communist  regime, stories of people still living in denial of the crimes that they have committed. Surprises about the compromises made by the current regime in terms of failing to pursue those crimes, both in a forlorn effort to forgive by forgetting, but also due to typical bureaucratic underfunding. Hugely revealing, and topical in the sense of reminding us that systems and regimes can make enormous mistakes, of historical importance, that questioning dissent is vital for societies  and that individual morality must guides all  functionaries within systems.	2004-06-23
US	35906535	RIRM531UKIB26	0385501331	815587551	Creative Destruction: Why Companies That Are Built to Last Underperform the Market--And How to Successfully Transform Them	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A solid , thought-provoking book on Business Innovation	Foster's previous work - Innovation, the Attackers Advantage, is a masterpiece, and this follow up is an excellent read.  An interesting observation at the start contrasts a company trying to excel and innovate, and the market as a Darwinian force, ruthlessly selecting the `best' irregardless of past performance.  The message is the same, stark reminder as Clayton Christensen's - past excellence is no guarantee of future survival.<br /> Having delivered this baleful message, the book distinguishes between typical management techniques - measurement, control, which leads to operational  excellence [called convergent thinking], and the type of observation, reflection and debate [called divergent thinking] which may lead to innovation.<BR> The book outlines methodologies which can be used to attempt to combine both convergent and divergent approaches within a firm.  The book therefore takes one step further than Clayton Christensen's suggestion of setting up a separate entity to pursue a specific `blue sky' set of ideas.  However it in no way underplays the seriousness of the threat of new product or new product cycles to the incumbent, successful corporations - indeed some of the examples given in the book as successes (Cisco, Corning) have since gone through major traumas in subsequent product and economic cycles. <br /> The book seems to take explicit aim at Collin's book `Built to Last', saying that companies which have been longest in the Fortune 500 have underperformed the market - and expands this  theme that the market, by having no emotional link to firms, will pick winners and punish the slow remorselessly.  From an investors point of view, my interpretation of  Foster's guidance would be to periodically pick the top performers in an index and sell those which don't make it to the top, regardless of past position; my interpretation of Collins is that eventually the tried and trusted firms win out. <BR> I think my money would be on Foster.<br /> However in terms of management thinking Foster is definitely in the Thomas Kuhn, Giovanni Dosi, Clayton Christensen, Geoffrey Moore tradition of the intense difficulty of managing to be customer focused, operationally excellent and innovative simultaneously.	2004-06-17
US	35906535	R1P0TPCJT7SQJ0	0374926735	48721572	Pitt Versus Fox: Father and Son	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very readable history, focussed on great families	This book was originally written in German, in 1950,  and I approached it apprehensively, assuming it would be ponderous.  However it is quite a straightforward read and lively in its interpretations.  It shows the evolution of British political life, through the lives of Henry Fox, and his son Charles James and of William Pitt, father and son.    The only hint of its Germanic origins are the occasional analogy to Schiller or Bismarck.  <BR> The book is quite favourable to the liberalism of Charles James Fox and opposed to George III's attempts to disband the party system.  In the latter it is clearly at odds with the view (of Linda Colley and others) that after the <BR>defeat in the American war of Independence, that George III reinvented himself and became the non-political, patriotic and popular embodiment of  Britain.   <BR> The book is strong on biography, and shows some of the dissolution which was a feature of political life at the times, Charles James Fox and both Pitts were unable to control their personal spending, Fox was an inveterate gambler and the Younger Pitt is described as being a victim of alcohol.	2004-06-17
US	35906535	R2KQZFSYVHLIBS	0198224672	832484540	Public Finance and Private Wealth: The Career of Sir Stephen Fox, 1627-1716	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good story of the evolution of British national finance.	Sir Stephen Fox can be seen as the Joseph Kennedy of his day, a man of humble origins, who accumulated vast wealth, served in appointed public office and founded a political dynasty.  Fox started as a servant to the exiled Charles the Second, and gained a reputation for financial discipline, ensuring that Charles' rather haphazard finances funded his rather straitened lifestyle.  Upon the restoration Fox was appointed to the Royal household, though apparently not to the seniority he felt his talent deserved.  Through the book there is an undercurrent of the class-based distain of his backround and his struggle to overcome it. <BR>Fox's main chance came when the King and Court felt that they must establish a permanent force to deter internal revolt (later to become the Coldstream Guards),  this was opposed by Parliament on the grounds that a standing army could take too much power in the land (Cromwell was not long dead, after all).<BR> Parliamentary opposition meant that the Guards could not be guaranteed funding, and memories of the destruction that unpaid armies had wrought filled the Court with dread.  So Fox was induced to guarantee to pay the army on a regular basis, on the understanding that when the funds became available he could keep a certain amount for himself.  The account of how he raised  and maintained credit, kept up the payments and managed the risk of default are the strongest portion of the book.  It gives a good insight into the evolution of credit financing in early modern Britain. Fox was at the heart of the Treasury and Bank of England's activities as they originated. <BR>As the Guards expanded into an army, especially during the many wars with the Dutch, Fox amassed a fortune through taking the financial risk of paying the army, while waiting for funds to come from taxes authorized by parliament. <BR> Initially he used borrowed money, however as his fortune increased he was able to use his own funds, thus compounding his wealth.<br />He increasingly loaned money on a private basis, mainly to landowning Aristocracy. He accumulated land himself and eventually was judged to be the `wealthiest commoner in the three Kingdoms'. This aroused much envy at the time, however in his long life Fox did not raise any suspicion of corruption or impropriety.  He used his influence at Court, to ensure that he received the money owed to him more promptly than most, however his reputation with his creditors and with the armed forces (who welcomed the unaccustomed regularity of their payment) was always high.<br />The book seems to be assembled largely from financial records kept by Fox and his associates, and is quite informative about personal and public finance of the day.  There are glimpses, however of the character of the man - he seems to have been driven, if not obsessive, in his public life, constantly striving for appointments by the King, keen for recognition of his raised position by `Society'.  He also seems to have been generous with his time and money to his extended family. He bailed out his sons-in-law on many occasions, tried on numerous occasions to establish budgets for them to live within their means.<BR>His preoccupation seems to have been to have a direct heir through his sons, however his only son (Charles) to reach adulthood died childless. Stephen Fox outlived his wife and his son Charles, and at the age of seventy seven, remarried and produced two sons by his second marriage.  It was the second of these sons - Henry- who became a major political figure during the reign of George I and II.   Henry's son Charles-James Fox became an even more influential figure during the American War of Independence.  The book, however, mentions Henry - in his time a hugely controversial figure, eloping with the daughter of the Duke of Richmond, become Paymaster of the Armed forces (as his father had been) - only briefly.  I was quite disappointed in this.<br />Overall the book gives an excellent insight into the origins of the system of public credit through which Britain was to become a major European power. It shows the many false starts, suspicions and faults of the system.  It illustrates to some extent the personal and class rivalries in society of the time	2004-06-01
US	35906535	R3R9DS30MC3N2B	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The second book of the Aubrey/Maturin partnership. Pacy,	I read Master and Commander recently - prompted by the Movie - and  loved it.  This, second, book in the series continues the adventures of Jack Aubrey - a bluff, impetuous Naval commander, and the reserved, cerebral Dr. Maturin.<BR> This book opens with Aubrey anxiously waiting for promotion to post-Captain and courting young ladies, when he is made bankrupt overnight. Various adventures ensue, which the usual derring-do. This book marks the first time that Maturin is explicitly identified as a spy.  His work aids Aubrey in securing commands, promotion and therefore an understanding with the young lady of his dreams.  Maturin's world view and prospects are more sombre and morose. <BR> The book itself contains a huge amount of naval jargon, mainsails, topsails, etc. etc., curiously however it doesn't lose the narrative for me, despite the facts that I have no idea what the terminology means, the pace of the narrative doesn't lessen, and I am quite happy to ` go with the flow'.<br /> Overall a good read.	2004-05-14
US	35906535	R3U6H28GBIMT0I	0389041459	996884538	The Rise of the Pelhams	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Solid account of post-Walpole British politics.	This work describes the aftermath of the departure of Walpole from the house of Commons.  Walpole's long reign resulted from his ability to be `The Kings Minister in the Commons, and the representative of the Commons with the King\\", bridging the effective power structures of the day.   The fact that Walpole was the first person to fashion this role, and the fact that he did not acknowledge the importance of the position, meant that his successors - Carteret and Pulteney - did not see the need for balance between the power structures.  Carteret, in particular, being the King's favourite, saw no need to placate or persuade the Commons and gradually alienated that body.  Gradually the King's foreign policy, and the need to finance it, became a source of instability in the Commons.  The book is excellent in its description of the intricacies of the interaction between Court and Commons to ensure the stability of the Monarchy and the day-to-day financing of policy decisions.  <BR>  Owen is very clear in describing the gradual realisation by the King the Lords and the Commons, that a Prime Minister position was required.  He also clarifies that the Secretaries of State saw themselves as operating the policy of the King (rather than of the country or the commons) and therefore the concept of continuous parliamentary opposition was slow to evolve.   He clearly demonstrates Pelham's inheritance of the awareness for balance from Walpole and clearly illustrates Pelham's ability to co-opt any leaders of the opposition (e.g. Pitt) into government, whereas Walpole's policy was to isolate them on the opposition benches. <BR>  Owen's debt to Namier is illustrated by the details the changing voting patterns, together with names, titles etc. of the Commons.  This latter can tend to deaden the narrative, but does lend authenticity.   The threat of Jacobitism (both in the Commons and in the Country) is almost completely ignored, the events of the '45 are mentioned in passing, as yet another task for the Pelhams to get through.   Indeed Owen's view of the commons is of a house made up of <BR>gentlemen who were naturally suspicious of the wielding of centralized power (Tories), those who - through various levels of reluctance - acknowledge the material progress of the age (Whigs) and ambitious men who wished to achieve power through service of the King.  <BR>  The book is a solid read through the turbulent times which followed the fall of Walpole, and shows how British political society came to terms with the new political forces unleashed by the Glorious Revolution and the financial progress of the early 18th Century	2004-05-14
US	35906535	R3AZRHB8Q6VIHZ	0801480019	965963251	Bolingbroke and His Circle: The Politics of Nostalgia in the Age of Walpole	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	This is a superb work on history of policital philosophy	This is a superb work - it clearly delineates the political and cultural clashes of the early Georgian period in English history.  It contrasts the political philosophies of Bolingbroke and the Tories (nostalgic, reactionary, gloomy) with those of Walpole (experimental, pragmatic, forward looking) very comprehensively.  The fact that Bolingbroke left so voluminous a literary trail while Walpole wrote so little of the theory of what he believed,  does not deter Kramnick from clearly illustrating their philosophies.<BR> <BR> He broadens the picture to include the literary figures of the period - Pope, Swift, Defoe and others and shows us how engaged they became in politics.  This era was perhaps the first to spawn a profession of writers, who could actually make a living by the sales of their journalistic or literary works. It is ironic that the affluence which supported their careers should have been so criticised by the most of them.   Gullivers Travels is ably contrasted with Robinson Crusoe - each reflecting the Tory (pessimistic) and Liberal (optimistic) views of either side of the debate.  There is excellent commentary on the use of journalism and pamphlets to sway public opinion. <br /> Bolinbroke, Swift, Pope and others essentially saw Walpole's England as corrupt, obsessed with wealth, and opposed to the traditional landowning classes. They saw the increase of the National Debt as ultimately leading to ruin for the taxpaying classes (landlords) while temporarily enriching speculators and placemen. This circle yearned to return to the `balance' between peers, King and commoners which they felt characterised their ideal of the  Tudor era.   Kramnick gives Bolingbroke credit for at least being consistent to this view, and finds that his circle were fearful of the new economic forces rather than cynical in their opposition.  In this he differs from most British historians in their view of Bolingbroke's character.<br /> Walpole and Defoe, and the establishment areseen as being in favour of personal liberties, and limited government intervention in the lives of the governed.  They are depicted as being favour of `projects' - the new financial and trade methods which were actually increasing the wealth of the country.  Walpole is shown as being intolerant - to the point of persecution - of the opposition press, and too tolerant of people in public office making personal fortunes.  <br /> I think this book, in its time, marked the start of a reassessment of Bolinbroke. Read now, it is for me  the clearest synopsis of the battle of political philosophies which marked the beginnings of `liberal democracy' in British History	2004-04-22
US	35906535	R2WKMJRH3LAEGU	1841954608	701095379	Vernon God Little: A 21st Century Comedy in the Presence of Death (Man Booker Prize)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A modern Huck. Finn,  stick with it , its an excellent read	This is an exceptional book.   I hated the first fifty pages, as it starts in the aftermath of a catastrophe, but is very unclear as to what exactly happened. The narrative is first <BR>person, in the words of teenager Vernon Little and he can be quite tiresome to listen too.   I also felt it was shaping up to be `a poor white kid gets put upon by life', kind of read - which in fact it turns out to be, but in a wonderful, quirky, unpredictable kind of way.   <BR>Gradually, you find, through Vernon's narrative, that he is essential a loyal child to his mother, though betrayed by her and almost all the adults with whom he comes in contact.  His sense of confusion, alienation but his fundamental humanity come across in the latter half of the book, once you get your bearings on the viewpoint of the narrative. <BR>I won't give away the story, but realize there is a happy ending and that, like the best books, it takes some time to acclimate. Once you get to know Vernon Little and his world, you will recognize him as a friend, and a classic literary character of our era. <BR>There are two weak points about the book in my opinion, one general one about the media manipulation of a tragedy - a thoroughly modern point, but made rather unrealistic by exaggeration. The media figure represented in the book was so thoroughly manipulative and corrupt as to be one-dimensional.  The other weak point, I think, is the happy ending - it comes from nowhere in the last number of pages, a little too quick for my taste. <br />Overall, I can't rate the book highly enough.	2004-04-22
US	35906535	R2WX3YMKQSLQOB	0678035512	214640589	Sir Robert Walpole (Houghton Mifflin reprint editions)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Excellent political biography, great intro. to the period	These volumes are the place to start to get a good view of Wapole, the emergence of the Hanovarian-Whig governance during the early 18th Century.  Though written about 40 years ago, the story is told in a lively, non-fussy style. There is little about Walpoles upbringing, and the second volume ends in 1734, prior to Walpoles fall from power (and elevation to the Lords), so the story is more focused on power in the House of Commons and the Court than I would expect in a biography.   I was very curious about Walpoles later life - and still am having finished these books.    However this is not to take away from the story as told, marked as it is by excellent research and clear analysis, told with a direct, accessible style.<br /> Walpole's drive for power (and patronage), his accumulation of more and more power and influence - destructive of both his enemies and some of this friends (especially Lord Townshend) is well illustrated.   His limits, and those of his times, are unsparingly laid out - he benefited personally from holding office, indeed he indicated this with all the pride of a self-made man, he doled out political patronage and secured influence with all the diligence of a early version of Tammany Hall. He was ruthless with his enemies (although it was the first era in which political enemies were not executed), and attempted to lock up editors and publishers who lampooned him.  The book clearly shows the developments of the body politic of the day, how the struggles for power did - eventually- conform to what are now seen as civilised standards, and how missteps were avoided not necessarily by design but by evolution, discourse and compromise.<BR> <BR> The first volume shows Walpole's rise to power - he was always identified with the Whig element and opposed the influence of Oxford and Bolinbroke, however he was malleable enough to move away from the Junto position in order to achieve power.  Plumb is very clear on the tentative nature of power and influence upon the accession of George I, who did not make clear his preferences for the Whigs initially. Walpoles rise and maintenance of political power over the period is shown as being the result of his unparalleled abilities to wring victories from the unruly House of Commons and his ability to gain influence with both George I and II (despite the fact that both father and son hated one another).  <BR> <BR> The one major issue I have with the book is that it sets Walpole up as being a champion of the small, landed squires, who hated paying the land taxes which funded England's wars at the time, hence his policy to pursue peace at all costs.   Plumb notes that Walpoles controversial proposals on excise taxes (and anti smuggling measures) were principally a reaction to a view of society which felt that land was being too heavily taxed and that traders and speculators were gaining wealth without paying a fair share.  This is a valid view, however later books - Dickinson' Bolinbroke, and Linda Colley's Britons - ascribe this view to the Tories and class the Whigs as being in favour of business and banking.  In particular Plumb claims Bolinbroke instigated protests from the traders of London etc.  Having read on this subject it now appears that ever major leader in (and out of) the Commons at the time was a champion of the country squire and that both, antagonistic, parties were had the same objective.  I cannot resolve this issue. <br /> A minor criticism would be the rather superficial treatment of European politics in the second volume. As Walpole gained power he overruled his kinsman Townshend in the pursuit of European alliances.  Townshend favoured continuing alliances to keep France isolated in Europe, Walpole put a greater priority on preserving peace (or more specifically keeping England out of Continental Wars) and persuaded the Hanovarian George II to pursue alliances with France or Austria to this end - indeed there was a period when Britain pursued alliances with both France and Austria simultaneously, despite the fact that both were enemies of the other. <br /> Overall a fantastic read, a clear grounding in the national and international politics of the period.	2004-03-30
US	35906535	R13QO0SL4HK2SZ	0679492658	167686037	Independence Day	Books	4	3	3	N	N	2nd installment of the life and times of Frank Bascombe.	I liked this book, which is written in the first person, despite not liking the main character.   This book is a sequel to `The Sportswriter' which was a breakthrough for Richard Ford. I haven't read the first book yet, but this one takes up with Frank planning a 4th July trip with his son, who lives with his ex-wife and her new husband in another state. <BR> The book works through a series of thoughts, reminiscences  and rather mundane activities which Frank goes through before and during the weekend. Through his preparations we get a view of Franks life being an \\" Existence Perid\\", neither particularly happy nor sad, without a clear purpose.  His relationship with his colleagues and clients - he is now a realtor - is, in my view, the best part of the book. The dialogue with his ex-wife and new girlfriend is extremely good, and the general craft of the book - to sustain a descriptive novel, which details ordinary events, in a monologue - is excellent.  The story takes many different turns, some related, some incidental but somehow never lags.  Strangely, as Frank's major purpose is to spend some time with his son, I felt the son's character and the dialogue between Father and Son, were brittle, hollow,  superficial.  Perhaps this was intentional, but I got no great feeling of any credible relationship between the characters.<BR> Overall an excellent read.	2004-03-21
US	35906535	R38HKTPAQM6Q7N	0156006006	75363464	Ingenious Pain (Harvest Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A curious, though interesting,book.	The main character in this novel can literally feel no pain (until a curious incident towards the end of his life).  This inability aids him through his life as he moves from childhood poverty, through various ordeals.  His lack of feeling (and empathy) allows him to become a successful surgeon - he's not too squeamish to experiment - but eventually arrogance gets the better of him.  He joins a competition to inoculate the Russian<BR>Czarina of the day, which entails a hazardous trip across 18th Century Europe.  It is the failure of this quest which finally moves him to feel pain, and thereafter he spends a period in a lunatic asylum, event though released he seems a much reduced, more ordinary figure.  <br />I liked the book for its descriptions of 18th Century life.  It gives a feel for the emergence of Scientific method, which is beginning to break away from superstition and faith-based beliefs.  It gives a convincing view of the type of person who would drive this search for scientific knowledge as ruthless and willing to break through social norms.   On the downside the book feels like an vehicle to be used to discuss various social and historical themes and settings.  I did not feel much empathy for the main character (maybe this is intentional), and my main sympathies were for the secondary characters - much of the story is told by way of their descriptions of the action, rather than in direct description.  <br />In general a cerebral exercise, illuminating for those who are perhaps interested in the history of the times.	2004-03-21
US	35906535	R16Y489BMBHUZ8	1904298087	686988473	Why Innovation Fails: Hard Won Lessons for Business	Books	2	2	3	N	Y	The Basic message seems to be Dont believe the hype	This book covers some of the bases in regard to innovation - in particular it mentions the Diffusion of Innovation Theory, propounded by Everett Rogers among others.  He gets a lot of mileage out of failures (such as New Coke and The Smokeless Cigarette) , under the general guise of \\"what were they thinking\\", and he clearly describes how foolish ideas can get backing from powerful, influential ideas and how other people then  fall into the Emperor's New Clothes Syndrome. <BR>There are a lot of good references in this book to successes, failures and studies relating to the Dot Com boom.  One curious omission, in my view, is any reference to the work of Geoffrey Moore, whose work in the marketing of innovative technology products is a must-read for anyone trying to define the topic.<br />My basic impression of this book is that it is good on description, adequate  in referring the reader to deeper, more original,  material but very poor on analytical contribution.	2004-03-21
US	35906535	R24BRTVMUZGADJ	0300090242	206462778	Yale English Monarchs - Queen Anne (The English Monarchs Series)	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Excellent review of the turmoil of the Late Stuart period	During Queen Anne's reign Britain consolidated its position as a first rank<BR>European power.  Prior to that England had been the doughty underdog, who<BR>somehow survived to trade another day, its politics plagued with factions and  bloody<BR>divisions.  During Anne's reign the divisions persisted, but was worked out with less<BR>bloody consequences.<br />Professor Gregg's was allowed access to the large volume of correspondence between<BR>Anne and her one time close friend Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough.  The Duke and Duchess of Marlborough were the power couple of the period.  The Duke won great military victories for Britain on the continent and the Duchess was very influential in the early years of Queen Annes' rule.  So the correspondence is very revealing of the twists and turns of the political process.  Anne could only rule through parliament, and being childless (despite sixteen pregnancies!) was<BR>susceptible to pressure as to who should succeed her.   Her father, James II, a Catholic,  had been deposed and was living in exile in France, where he had the support of Louis XIV.  The next nearest Protestant relative was George Augustus of Hannover, a rather dour, provincial potentate.  Through the later <BR>years of her reign, Anne struggled with parliament to establish her own authority, limit the power of Louis XIV in Europe, secure the Protestant succession and <BR>simultaneously deter the George Augustus from coming to Britain while she lived - this last was necessary to stop a rival power structure emerging. This was done against the backdrop of increasing expensive military campaigns and a country which was sentimentally attached to the Stuarts and neutral about the Hannovarians.  The struggles within parliament and between parliament and the court are well described by Professor Gregg, who is especially good at describing the rather-stoic Anne's stuggle to establish her authority.  The early letters to the Duchess of Marlborough are unusually revealing of her struggle to assert herself.<br />If the book has a weakness it is the over-reliance on these letters. The friendship between Anne and Sarah soured considerably, as Anne took more and more<BR>decisions which contradicted Sarah's advice. Eventually Anne turned to a number of<BR>other advisors, however correspondence with these others is much more limited, while Sarah continued to inundated Anne with increasingly shrill correspondence. Gregg, in the absence of other documentation, quotes heavily from later correspondence between the women, even though the relevance to contemporary events diminishes. <br />Overall the book is an excellent, personalized description of Annes times and life.<BR>By being so focussed on the monarch it gives an insight into the connections between families in the fight for preferment - several examples exist of proximity to royalty translating into high office;  the father of James II's `low born' wife became the Earl of Clarendon, and Anne spent most of her reign ignoring and avoiding him.  In this way it is possible to trace and understand the patterns of<BR>patronage and influence which make English history seem so impenetrable.<br />I highly recommend this book	2004-01-29
US	35906535	R945UF53PM2UT	0094556903	857499597	Bolingbroke	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Sedate, measured history of a most colourful character	This book was written in 1970, and perhaps the convention of the times prevented some of the more `tabloid' details of the main characters life from being detailed.   Henry St. John, Viscount Bolinbroke, attained high political office during the reign of Queen Anne, with Robert Harley, Lord Oxford, he led the<BR> Tory faction in the court and eventually persuaded Queen and parliament to <BR> conclude a peace with France, thus isolating Britain's European allies in the War of the Spanish Succession.  This made Bolinbroke no favourite of the incoming Hannovarian monarchy.  On Anne's death, Bolinbroke, fearing arrest and worse, fled to France where he eventually he joined forces with the Jacobites and was a high-counseller to the pretender during the abortive uprising of 1715.  He was blamed by the Jacobites in the recriminations following the failure of this rising, and appealed to George I for clemency.<BR> At the time it was said of him that he had ` managed to betray two monarchs within two years and still live to tell the tale'.  This  is a measure of both the impetuosity and talent of the man.<br /> Throughout the rest of his long life (he died in 1751), he tried to justify his extraordinary activities on the ascent of George I, and tried to regain the  political influence he had in the later days of Queen Anne.  He did not really succeed in either, though his writings and personality, strongly influenced some of the eras greatest writers - Swift, Pope, Voltaire, and his political commentaries influenced the (admittedly bereft) Tory party during the Walpole era.<br /> The  book is excellent on political developments and analysis - particularly so on the provenance of Pulteney , Cateret and the `broad bottom' regime which followed Walpole.  He also follows (and is critical of) Bolinbrokes foray into <BR> philosophy.   <BR> The book has two drawbacks, in my view,   the more minor one is a curious disappearance of some characters - e.g. Lord Oxford, a major influence and rival of Bolinbrokes during his early political career, disappears without trace in this volume. Like Bolinbroke, he fell from power on the ascension of the Hanovarians, however he did not flee to France, and lived out the rest of his years in political isolation.  However after 1715, nothing is mentioned of him, it would be useful to compare Oxford's wilderness years with those of Bolinbroke. Robert Walpole, the object of much of Bolinbroke's frustrations disappears from view.   A second, perhaps greater weakness is a lack of detail on Bolinbroke's lifestyle.  His early brilliance, was tempered by distrust on the part of most of the political class. Queen Anne is said to have been averse to him because of his dissolute lifestyle, Dickinson mentions that he was promiscuous and unfaithful to his first wife, but devoted to his second. However this is not illustrated, and so a flavour of the man and his times is lost.<br /> The great strengths of the book are its various analyses on the impact Bolinbroke had on the emergence of a British nationalism, which gave a <BR> `clear blue' philosophy to the emergent Imperial Brition.  His clear view<BR> the Whig-Tory factions which emerged dated back to Cromwell, had now  <BR> disappeared and that the purpose of politics was to serve the new British nation (and consequently to take no side in European conflict, save to defeat <BR> any European nation which might challenge British trade and influence) gradually emerged as the philosophy of Pitt and succeeding generations - there are echos of it in the term `Splendid isolation' which guided Victorian foreign policy.	2004-01-29
US	35906535	R2AQPM7KP0R3QJ	0841905118	397689692	Political Untouchables: The Tories and the '45	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A well-defined, erudite history.	This work illustrates the machinations involved in Jacobite plotting throughout the early 18th Century.  It gives the lie to the equation of Jacobite and Tory sentiment and<br />indeed shows the contradictions between the principal of Royal heredity and Protestantism which  paralysed the Tory party for a generation.  It is particularly effective in revealing the plotting leading up to the invasion of 1745 - in particular how much preparation was in train for a French invasion of Southern England and the almost haphazard success of the Scottish invasion through Northern England which was fomented by the arrival of the young Pretender.  Cruickshanks shows us the ambivalence of most of the English, motivated neither by loyalty to the Hanovarians nor complete hostility to the Stuarts, they were largely quiescent as the Jaobite Scots marhed through, neither resisting nor, for the most part, joining the revolt.<br />In the end, with little English support, the Scottish Jacobites decided to return to Scotland and Charles Edward was left with no supporters to carry him further south, to largely undefended London.  No French support could be organised in time, and it seems the Whig-Parliament, Hanovarians and City-Brokers were let triumph by default.  Beyond the scope of the book is the tremendous revenge carried out by the Hanovarians in the aftermath, and it is a matter of conjecture whether the failure of the Stuarts or the revenge of the Hanovarians was instrumental in turning the Scottish nobility into loyal subjects.  Read Linda Colley's Britons for some views on this subject.<br />This book is  clearly delimited, thoroughly researched and the product of great learning.  It is perhaps, not written to be  very accessible to a newcomer to the subject, but for a lay person who has an interest in the area it is a great addition.  In summary I would read books by Paul Langford, Linda Colley and John Brewer before coming to Eveline Cruickshanks, but , once there, it would bewell worth the effort.	2003-12-30
US	35906535	RKDXP1KV9723R	0802117643	228454813	The Good Doctor	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Overall an exceptional read,	This is a tense, terse account of  post Apartheid South Africa.  The  main character<BR>flees his `first world' life in urban South Africa, and works in a dilapidated and <BR>under-used hospital in a rural area.  This being South Africa the legacy of racist rule is mixed with the present day rich/poor divide and the (white) author confronts politically inspired waste of resources and poor planning.  However the main thrust of the book is the characterisation of the main players, and this  is done supremely well.  The spare style of the book echoes the ultimately futile fate of all the characters, all have something to hide and nothing, ultimately, to strive for.  It is a wonderful read.<BR>The book has been criticized as the work of yet  another white author predicting the inevitable descent into chaos of a newly independent black African State.  I believe this is not the objective of the book, there are however extremely bleak<BR>views which can be taken about South Africa, its basic poverty and its mounting health crisis and the inevitable inefficiency and corruption of government.  This book offers this bleakness as a backdrop to a clear-eyed tail of human<BR>aspirations and disappointments	2003-12-30
US	35906535	R1KQH9QUIKM8TF	0807848468	189873953	The Persistence of Empire: British Political Culture in the Age of the American Revolution (Published by the Omohundro Institute of Early American ... and the University of North Carolina Press)	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	Read this  with The Power of Commerce by Nancy Kohen	Gould describes the origin and changing self concepts  of the first British empire.<BR>He describes the benign neglect of the North American colonies under the reign  of George I and II - despite the fact that a large amount of the victories of the Seven Years War occurred in North America - the colonies were seen, by the Hanovarian world view, as little more than distractions, pawns in the stuggle for dominance of the European landmass. <BR>The colonies interests were menanced by the threat of French invasion from Quebec and thus their loyalty for the protection of their liberty and religion, emphasised their Britishness. Great Brition's policy (envisioned by Bolinbroke, but embodied by Pitt Snr.) increasingly saw the domination of colonial  trade, and the protection of trade routes  as a method of increasing wealth and power in the world.  With the accession of the nationalist George III this `blue water' strategy marked a British distaste for continental alliances and a new emphasis on transatlantic values of liberty, Protestanism and profits.<br />Gould makes very clear that the increasing London-based emphasis on the Britishness of the colonies brought with it a metropolitan belief that the colonies should contribute more than trade taxes, at about the same time as the French threat from Quebec had removed the colonies major anxieties for their security.  Indeed it was to pay for the debts run up in the Seven Years War that the taxation question became urgent. Gould is very good at illustrating how the metropolitan foreign policy called for a powerful Navy and a standing army in the American colonies to deter French rearmament, whereas the colonial view saw the standing army as a threat to their liberty, much as the Whigs had resisted a standing army in English soil after the Restoration. <BR>  A strength of the book is illustrating the progress of this mutual incomprehension from refined argument to confrontation and, eventually, Revolution.   If this area interests you, also worth a read is The Power of Commerce by Nancy Kohen,  which is much clearer on the policy divisions within the British parliament on the question of how to pay for the Government debt run up by the war.  There were many voices (including Pitt Snr) who backed the theoretical right of Parliament to impose colonial taxes, but opposed each new measure in turn, relying instead on the increasing value of commercial taxes (and perhaps inflation) to deal with the debt. The governing faction, however, stared into the jaws of fiscal default and saw debt reduction as the major task of their time in office.<br /> Gould agues that the failure of the first `one-nation' British empire, set the philosophy for the second muti-cultural (some might say racist) imperialism that pervaded the 19th Century.  Having failed with the North Atlantic, trading based `cousins', the empire defaulted to one set on the exploitation exemplified by the East India Company.  However it is possible to argue that the emergence of the anti-Slavery movement, among others, gives the lie to this view. <br />This is a welcome addition to those seeking knowledge of the guiding philosophies and strategies of the first British Empire , and the affect which its collapse had on subsequent British Imperial thinking.	2003-12-30
US	35906535	R1AA50BQECO5RY	0571212166	80997758	That They May Face the Rising Sun (Great Irish Writers)	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Rural Idyll, beautifully paced book, curiously empty	First the book, then the author. <BR> this book is a description of ordinary, Irish rural life, set in the 1980s.  There is very little by way of plot, it reflects the effect of the changing seasons on rural life and is interspersed with random events that do not form `plot points' but more resemble the happenings in real life.   The beautiful descriptions of the changing face of the countryside, through the seasons, is the main draw of the book for me (but what is sedge?).  The characters range from the strange yet endearing to the the hostile and repulsive.  I think that both the central characters - Joe and Kate, and some of the more peripheral characters lack depth and credibility. Joe and Kate, are the perfect couple, accepting, living the rural `good life', having withdrawn from the  sophisticated urban lifestyle.<BR> The book itself has a curious emptiness, a passage describes Joe as believing his current contentment and absence of pain is what he will remember as happiness in the future, if and when, things take a turn for the worse. With the <BR> core emptiness, comes a foreboding about the future.  The character best drawn, in my view, in a simpleton - Bill Evans - who calls to Joe and Kate each day on his way to the well.  Bill lives in the eternal present, neither reflective nor judgemental.    I believe he is the metaphor for the book as a whole.<br />  John MaGahern, is the last of the Greats.  His early work, featuring clear eyed <BR> descriptions of the abuses which were a hidden part of Irish life, were banned <BR>in Ireland in the 1950s. Such was the power of the banning that MaGahern lost his teaching job and spent many years in hardship.  His early work has been described (in retrospect) as the clarion call to honesty in the face of the unacceptable, which is the basic function of literature (think Solzhenitsyn).<BR>Through the ordeal of his life - relative poverty, official rejection - he has maintained<BR>a lack of bitterness towards official Ireland (church and state) which can either be <BR>regarded as the product of  brain-washing or magnanimity of a Mandela.  This book has been described as his attempt to indicate how Irish society may work out a <BR>reconciliation between its tradition and its reality, i.e. the traumas of modernisation and the revelation of official corruption have dethroned officially-defined church and state, and yet nothing has replaced the need for community spirituality.  It has been said that this book is MaGahern's proposal in this regard.	2003-12-30
US	35906535	R3QBCXLXE5Y3AS	0300059256	217063101	Britons: Forging the Nation 1707-1837	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	An excellent survey of 18th Century British  political econo	This is an excellent read, combining many aspects of 18th Century British society.<br />Colley advances the view that the English aristocracy incorporated fellow Protestant from Scotland, Wales and to some extent Ireland in the aftermath of the loss of the<br />American War.  This re-invention, combined with the expansion of the mercantile class spurred the re-emergence of an renewed Empire.  As the Century turned this Empire viewed itself as morally correct by abolishing slavery, reforming Parliamentary electoral politics and eventually re-incorporating Catholics into the political class.<br /> Along the way she gives convincing descriptions of the waning of Protestantism as a political force, the emergence of the Hanoverian dynasty and its<br />(successful) efforts to achieve mass popularity in Britain, the status of women in society among other things. All this is achieved with an accessible style.<br /> I think the books great strengths are its description of the aristocracy, and the<br />early Hanoverian kings (George I,II and III), it goes into great depth about Protestantism and the growth of trade.  I believe the weaknesses of the book are in its dealings with the post 1800 years - the reign of George IV and William are glanced over, and sometimes contradictorily. The Regency period is described as a period in which public morality became a concern of the ascendancy classes, however, George IV's behaviour would seem to contradict this.<br />Overall an exceptional read, a tremendous summary of the times, very thought provoking and well worth the time spent.	2003-11-10
US	35906535	R323E0EUE9S7TU	0674833503	438767643	Stability and Strife: England, 17141760 (New History of England)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	18th Cent. British Social and Political history, good, brief	This is quite a good single volume overview of English social and political history in the 18th Century.  The book has two halves - social first, which discusses increasing wealth, urbanisation, and civic stability,  and political thereafter, where the apparent instability of political life belied an underlining emergence of parliamentary representation and constitutional monarchy.    I enjoyed the social history more than I expected. The chapters are quite full of evidence and anecdote and it's a worthwhile read. One area that stuck in my mind was the efforts over the century for the professions (especially legal and medical) to distinguish themselves on the social hierarchy.  The legal profession succeeded first, establishing specialist training and associations, which medical physicians did so next, however up to 1745 surgeons and barbers were considered to be the one profession!. The book is quite good on the emergence of various layers of society, in the context of increasing wealth and urbanisation.<BR> The second half of the book describes the emergence of British parliamentary democracy  as we have come to know it.  The Hanovarian Kings were quite circumscribed in their powers from the start, but none the less the House of Commons made great use of its taxation authority to wrest more and more power over the century.   I was a bit unhappy with the rather scant level of detail with which the administrations of the period were dealt with - only Walpoles was dealt with in anything approaching sufficient detail.  However characters such as Stanhope, Henry Pelham and Bollingbroke get some recognition.  I felt Pitt (the Elder) was somewhat short changed, and Speck treats him as being inconsistent and muddled in quoting the remark that `Canada was won on the fields of Germany', when in fact Pitt was summing up the journey his policy had made from the `clear blue water' policy of colonial expansion through naval power, versus the land war requirements of Hanovarianforeign policy pursued by the first two Georges.  It was the combination of the two - keeping France occupied by  land and sea  which forced her to divide her efforts and ultimately fail. Paul Kennedy -  a contemporary of Speck's - points out that `of the seven Anglo-French conflicts between 1689 and 1815, the only one which Britain lost was that in which no fighting took place in Europe'.  I think Speck, not Pitt, missed this point completely. <BR> In general, an excellent introduction, but more detail is needed on the political history.	2003-10-21
US	35906535	ROMMTUCPLAWKY	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	3	3	4	N	N	I was surprised at how modern it was	I read this because I had not read any Hemingway to date.  I was quite surprised at how modern it was, despite being written eighty years ago.  It is a story of a man fighting for a country not his own, alternatively torn by idealism and selfishness. He becomes involved with a woman, eventually they escape to neutral territory and there's a melodramatic ending.<br /> In general I thought his descriptions of place - the first scenes are of the countryside disturbed by armies marching through - were compelling.  His descriptions of people are not quite so vivid, although it is possible to imagine the rough and raw nature of army life - boredom, gore and terror- from his dialogue.  I thought his description of the relationship, while initially promising, degenerated into conventional pretty quickly.  The initial courtship seemed to have the right mix of pretence and ambivalence, but later on it seemed to be one dimensional.<br /> Overall quite a surprising book, however I suspect not his best.	2003-10-21
US	35906535	RZNZWTRNI0DMK	0801426995	537927918	The Power of Commerce: Economy and Governance in the First British Empire	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Worthwhile history of British 18th Cent.  economic thought	This book works its way through various British administrations growing awareness of the interrelationship between imperial policy, international trade and the costs of governance through the 18th Century.   It is a worthwhile attempt to explain the oscillations in British taxation and imperial policies throughout this time,  - its best point is the as wars became increasingly expensive, governments were forced into borrowing based on future tax receipts. Therefore governments differed on the best ways of ensuring the continued growth of taxes - to tax imports, or exports, or transactions, or land etc. and at what rate.  There are many fine quotations showing the development of economic thought - in particular the negative effect of taxation on trade, the emergence of a mercantilist philosophy, and the various ploys to get the citizens of various colonies to contribute the tax burden.  <br /> The book suffers in terms of a stilted style, some untranslated latin expressions, pompous words like `undergirded',  and repetitions between chapters which could have been edited.  Apart from the style issues, the content of the book fine, but for better content and delivery try  John Brewers \\"The Sinews of Power\\".	2003-10-21
US	35906535	R1DGWSSX32X6ZD	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A well crafted melodrama, dont be put off by its 'literary'	I had heard about this book for quite a while, and it was on my list of `must read, someday' books.   Having read it now, I consider it a well crafted melodrama<BR>so don't be put of by its `literary' reputation.  The book is divided into four major episodes concerning a certain family and friends before, during and after World War II. There is an air of foreboding in each episode and each chapter seems to detail events which, while appearing normal, seem to be bringing doom closer.  In this, I think, the crafting to the pace of the book draws the reader onwards to find out what happens. The descriptive passages had less power for me than the dialogue, however the story was compelling.<BR> The main character is an aspiring novelist and this I found to be the aspect I liked least.  I find writers writing about writing to be self referential, boring and bland, and this features more in the book than I think is necessary.  It seemed to me to break, rather than enhance, the flow of the book and to provide very little by way of insight into the thought processes of the characters.  This was the main flaw I thought in an<BR>otherwise entertaining read.	2003-10-21
US	35906535	R29WRSAPBLY5HZ	0091728762	501157810	The Sinews of Power: War and the English State 1688-1783	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent view of Britain's success 1688-1783,	I am reading the history of Britain in the period 1650 -1815, and I believe John Brewer to be one of the key historians of the era.  This book takes the viewpoint that the expansion of the British Empire in the period was brought about primarily by the ability of the British government to tax its people effectively and that the raising of tax revenue allowed the government to raise enormous loans linked to future revenue.<BR>The success in raising such sums allowed the government to build and provision enormous armed forces which turned Britain from a regional power into a world power.   <BR> Brewer takes us through the changes in British society as reflected in the changes in tax collection - from tax collectors as corrupt `agents' of the crown to <BR>employees of the state - and in the taxes collected  - during the Seven Years War the majority of tax receipts  were customs and excise taxes  i.e. tax on goods consumed. <BR>Previously tax receipts were based on land holdings, however the customs and excise taxes necessitated a level of governmental monitoring and control on trade which was previously impossible.  It also reflected the enormous change in British society brought about by agricultural productivity, rapid urbanisation and expanding trade. <BR> Brewer concentrates on the ability of the government to raise taxes and draws the paradox that while the British system of government was less absolute than its continental rivals, by being more limited it had the ability to be more effective in the areas where its power was popularly agreed.  In this he sees the effectiveness of Parliament in representing the various interests - landed, mercantile - which generated wealth within the society.  He draws the distinction  with the tax revolts in the American colonies, whose lack of representation and thinly populated, agricultural based economy meant that unpopular taxes became too expensive to forcibly collect.<BR> In general I admired this book greatly, it condenses and refers to a great number of other  historical works and allows the reader to research further if required.<BR>In particular it mentions the great investment the British made in its navy and naval dockyards etc.   If there are drawbacks with the books I think it does not do justice to the overall efforts of British diplomacy to keep the French occupied with a land war in Europe (this perhaps is the result of the Hanoverian monarchy rather than the Whig parliament) and to keep Spain neutral (i.e. to prevent the alliance of Spain and France for as long as possible).  It does not illustrate the effect of personality on the various outcomes - Pitt recruited a significant number of Highlanders, rebellious up to twenty years previously, to the army, illustrating the extent to which Great Britain had become a state, Pitt's daring and Bute's caution led both to great military victories and (arguably) an unsatisfactory peace treaty.   However these are just other aspects.<BR> One question hit me on finishing this book,   there are great parallels between the Seven Years War and the 1914-18 War, in both Britain sought create alliances to prevent a single great power emerging on the European continent, both wars were fought across the globe, both were hugely expensive for the combatants.  However the Seven Years war enriched the British nation and (despite losing North America) set it on a path for greatness for over a century, while the 1914-18 War depleted Britain  economically and  diplomatically and set it on a dismal course for the remainder of the 20th Century.  It might be interesting to draw this comparison further.	2003-09-14
US	35906535	R3M43HCFY7C73E	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Overall an excellent, accessible read.	I was pleasantly surprised at this novel.  I had been meaning to read it for many years, and everything I had heard about it left me thinking that it was the great American novel and that Gatsby was a Svengali.  I was surprised at how sympathetic (and rather pathetic) Gatsby turns out to be, I was also pleasantly surprised at the accessibility of the story itself.  The writing however is a complete delight, the first person observations work well and the style is completely captivating and believable.<br />None of the characters are completely sympathetic but nor are they outrageous.<br /> Overall an excellent, accessible read. Don't be put off by its `classic' reputation.	2003-08-20
US	35906535	R1YZR4I0BN3SVT	0521521327	426417143	The Bells of Victory: The Pitt-Newcastle Ministry and Conduct of the Seven Years' War 1757-1762	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Overall a rewarding read about the early British Empire	This is an analysis of the Seven Years War from the point of view of the British Administration - chiefly the Pitt-Newcastle Ministry.   It is a hugely rewarding read.   As a major  result of the war was the destruction of the French colony in Canada, many books have taken this struggle as the prime focus (e.g.  Fred Anderson's magnificent `The Crucible of War'), however in Middleton's analysis we see how European centric the struggle actually was.  Britain's primary (as in most costly) struggle with France was fought on German territory, King George II was also the Elector of Hanover and pressed vigorously  for European action.  Pitt, in opposition, sided with the faction was opposed Britain's intervention on the European continent.  Pitt's view was that the struggle with France should concentrate on destroying France's trade by occuping French colonies, thereby increasing British trade and colonies. Therefore Pitt backed a strong navy and minimal European involvement.  In this he foreshadowed the `Splendid Isolation' policy of the British Empire in the 19th Century. <BR> The book shows Pitt as every bit as calculating as his contemporaries. He is seen to play to George II's faction by backing enormous British funding of armies in Europe while trying to maintain his former position by limiting the number of actual British troops sent (i.e. funding mercenaries).  He is seen initially to pander to Spanish demands when he first comes to power, only to use these same demands as a pretext for resignation later when it seems more advantageous for him.<BR> Through all this Middleton holds that Pitt  was less a strategist than a forceful  opportunist.  His basic policy of a strong navy yielded great results against an enemy (France) who was torn between  the need for a  strong army (to maintain and expand its European influence) and a strong navy (to maintain and expand its colonies and trade).  Other policies - European intervention and alliances and so forth, waxed and waned as circumstances dictated. <BR> Middleton gives Pitt's contemporaries their due - they have been overshadowed by his legacy, but they are seen as his equals and perhaps more diplomatically skilful in some cases - in particular the Duke of Newcastle, long derided as vacillating and spiteful, is given a more careful analysis as a major force in the administration.  The interaction among the members of the Ministry, and between them and the various royals - the King, the Prince of Wales and the Duke of Cumberland is well described and shows the complexity and constraints of wielding power in Georgian Britain.  <BR> Overall this is a serious and rewarding read for anyone interested in the development of the early British Empire.	2003-08-20
US	35906535	R2F2C53SOYMUWZ	0679507175	986244163	The Elder Pitt, Earl of Chatham	Books	3	15	15	N	Y	a good read, suffers from too psychological an analysis	This biography dates from 1976 and leans noticeably towards a psychological profile of the William Pitt.   Pitt is portrayed as a manic-depressive, who spent many years in the political wilderness of opposition in the British House of Commons, being anathema to King George II (and later George III).   The book gives credit to his oratory, his ability to make life almost impossible for those, in power, who he opposed.   Pitt became part of the government (`The Ministry') during the Seven Years War, and was seen as driving the most successful phase of that war - The conquering of French-Canada, India, West Africa.   <BR> Alying is at his most effective when dealing with Pitt and his family. Pitt's grandfather Thomas was a thunderous influence,   Pitt's relationship with his elder brother and the various of his sisters was intense, emotional and volatile.  The various family connections to the Grenvilles and how this played out in the politics of the day are very clearly illustrated. <BR> There are two areas of difficulty for this reader  - one is the basic problem on English Aristocracy, when someone of the characters becomes a Lord.  In the text a key player (e.g. Sir Richard Grenville, becomes Lord Temple, John Chateret an early<BR>adversary of Pitts becomes Lord Granville,  William Murray becomes Lord Mansfield).  It becomes hugely confusing when these people are initially established by their common names to have them change midway into their titles.<BR> The other major problem I had with the text is that it does not give a flavour of the vast effort put into the resourcing of the armed forces in Britain at the time.  There are references to the difficulty in raising money and manpower, but the sheer effort involved in keeping the war underway was phenomenal - better books in this regard are `The Bells of Victory' by Richard Middelton and `The Sinews of War' by  John Brewer.   The main implication of this fault is that it lends too much credence to the `great man'theory ie. that Pitt's superhuman energy alone, shifted the country from lassitude to almost unconditional victory, and as a corollary that Pitt was surrounded by weak-minded ministers who ultimately concluded an unsatisfactory peace.  The Duke of Newcastle is the chief victim of the flip side of this `great man' emphasis.<BR>Perhaps as a consequence of this the absolute public outrage which is associated with Pitt's initial acceptance of the previously corrupt post of Paymaster General , and later with his acceptance of his pension and peerage, is underplayed.  Pitt spent many years in opposition, deriding the corruption involved in government, for this he was the Whig most admired by Tories, also he was admired by small traders and `the public', their disappointment was therefore most intense when he was seen to abandon his principle. <br /> The book does well on Pitts personal life - he was irritable and irritating, unable to form close friendships, though his seems devoted to his wife and children.<BR>He was frequently in physical pain through gout, and the book lends a lot of credence to the manic-depressive theory of the stages of his life.   He is portrayed as a close friend of  America, both during its struggle with French Canada and later, with English taxation, which ultimately lead to the Revolution. More detail on this aspect can be found in Fred Anderson's magnificent `The Crucible of War'.<br /> Overall then I think  the book is a good read, suffers from too psychological an analysis of Pitt's character and gives insufficient weight to the interaction of other characters within the British administration of the day.	2003-08-20
US	35906535	R11XQS7T5CYKRC	080474095X	150195510	The Triumph of Ethernet: Technological Communities and the Battle for the LAN Standard (Innovation and Technology in the World Economy)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Excellent tale,and framework telling how innovations spread	I read this book after I had read `Where Wizards Stay up Late', and I think this helped.  Von Burg' book tells the tale of how the Ethernet protocol for connecting computers in an office building (a `local area' as opposed to a `wide area' e.g. across town) became the de-facto accepted standard over the decade of the 1980's. His case is that widespread adoption of the standard created a `community' of users and developers who were able to rapidly overcome any deficiencies in the standard, and that the wider this community the faster the developments, therefore the more rapid the advances over competing standards (in this case Token-Ring, backed mainly by IBM).  The book builds the story quite well, and pulls no punches about the deficiencies of Ethernet - very cumbersome cabling, initially quite narrow bandwidth.  He comes up with the best explanation of the Hub versus Bus configurations of connections which I have come across ( remote maintainability - but read the book).<br /> As well as a fascinating layout of the story of Ethernet and its many iterations and close shaves on the way to becoming the de-facto LAN (local area network) standard Von Burg puts together a wider theoretical basis to describe the diffusion of innovations.  In this process he links the triumph of Ethernet (mainly its widespread developer `community') with the open source movement (e.g. Linux developers), and ends up stating that the movement which attracts the widest `community' must ultimately win.  There are holes in this argument (e.g. how does a voluntary community produce a working, commercially-usable,  supportable product on time, every time), but it is the first time I have seen this argument so persuasively articulated.  On this technology-communitarian theory, the individual firm, no matter how bigger, can no longer compete with a diverse community of developers.  Its very current when you see Linux and Microsoft slug it out for space in corporate computer rooms.	2003-08-04
US	35906535	R3BUC9EKT2UHI6	0684832674	794734184	Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins Of The Internet	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Great intro. to the Internet,	I'm reading a series of technology-history books at the moment, this one, `The Triumph of Ethernet' and `how the Web was born'. This is definitely the place to start - a clear, fast paced tale of the various characters behind networked computers in late 1960's and 70's.  Essentially this book describes the origin of human computer interfacing which became networking theory in the North East United States in the late 1950's and `60s.<BR> The first computer network was called ARPANET, an outcome of inspired technology-development policy from ARPA -the Advanced Research Projects Agency, a part of the Defense Dept.   The story is laid out chronologically without too much techspeak, and brings up a number of questions.  <BR> One question that seemed clearer to me at the end of the book was that ARPANET was the first mover towards internetworked computers, but from the story it is clear that it was a series of hardware computers which acted as `routers' of information and that the heartbeat of the internet, as we have come to know it, is the communications protocol [called TCP/IP, specified by Vint Cerf, among others] which allowed the various messages to be interpreted by the different computers.  TCP/IP and Cerf are almost incidental to this book, which is a pity. <BR> Other topics covered are the initiation and development of E-mail and how the non-hierarchical, informal communications process among academics came to be the spirit of communications in the internet as a whole - something which is not altogether obvious from its origins in the Defense Dept.  For me, the other big revelation was the speed of the adoption of the internet (even in days before the World Wide Web) and how the originators of the ARPANET were happy to allow it to be made obsolete by technological development.  No one mentioned in this book seemed to want to (or know how to)  commericialize the technology which they were working so feverishly to implement. <BR> For those of a technical persuasion there are plenty of references to the various papers which moved the various technologies forward.  This book is a great first taste for those who want to dip into the subject, gives a realistic description of the `wizards' who had the weird and wacky ideas which we now rely on , and the text includes  enough `beef' to indicate how to dig deeper into the detail.	2003-08-04
US	35906535	RH27TJGKRB00M	0192862073	701596819	How the Web was Born: The Story of the World Wide Web	Books	2	7	10	N	N	good, European perspective, too deferential to Berners-Lee.	The last in a series of technology books which I have just read ( the others were `Where Wizards stay up late' and `The Triumph of the Ethernet'), this describes the World Wide Web and how it originated.  For a start the Web is not the Internet and if you can see the difference between the two, then the book gets very clear.  The Web was created as one communications service which could use the internet, by a group in CERN ( a nuclear research facility) in  Switzerland.  <BR> Tim Berners-Lee came up with the original idea and had the vision and tenacity to push it forward.  This book goes back to the origins of the internet - eg. the ARPANET in the US and various other efforts in Europe to lay the ground work for the Web story. One thing about the backround was the fact that the French internet development effort `Cyclades', initially had more flexibility - allowing software addressing, than ARPANET, however, ultimately the European efforts could not maintain the momentum of the US efforts by virtue of their complex funding and management structures. The US efforts evolved faster, addressing mainly of its initial short comings and gained widespread acceptance.<BR>  Another indicator, mentioned in the book, of the relative speeds of European vs  US development efforts is indicated in the battle for acceptance of TCP/IP vs. OSI standards for computer intercommunication.  OSI is an international standards development organisation, and on the face of it, an international communications standard - even if developed slowly - must triumph over de-facto standards.  However the pace of OSI development was glacial, and TCP/IP worked and continued to work as the internet grew and grew. Eventually TCP/IP gained such widespread acceptance that it was impossible to ignore. <BR> The pattern repeated itself with the Web - developed in Europe, the first web sites were all European, it was taken up enthusiastically by various US-based  software engineers.  As Berners-Lee was so shortstaffed, he appealed to volunteers to write browsers for various types of computers - and Marc Anderson in Illonois' National Centre for Supercomputer Applications, wrote a browser (called Mosaic) which was suitable for personal computers. The book makes clear the Anderson's team worked frenetically, but the code design was viewed as very poor  by the CERN team [ they described it as  MarcA mode, i.e. buggy].  However the browser launched the World Wide Web to mass appeal and changed the world.<BR> The book briefly describes how Berners-Lee saw the need of a forum to control the development of the Web and could only find practical support for this in the US (at MIT), - despite repeated appeals for funding from various European sources, again a missed opportunity for Europe.<BR> The book has a failing in being too deferential to Berners-Lee (it is co-authored by one of his co-workers in the development effort) but it is an essential read from a European perspective on how the US has the ability, the resources and the ability to recognize and develop innovations	2003-08-04
US	35906535	RZ9S793CJ9S83	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	20	27	N	N	Wonderful, action-adventure-opera-relationships Wow!	I don't normally read novels, but the plot outlined intrigued me - its based loosely on a kidnap in Peru a few years ago.   Prachett manages to unusual event of putting opera centre-stage in a kidnap drama, and still manages to <BR>Make the book a compulsive page turner.<br />To flow with the book you have to suspend disbelief - benevolent kidnappers,<BR>Art (specifically opera) as the secret soul of a cross section of people, which humanizes an intolerable situation.  Various improbable relationships etc.<BR>But the overall affect is entrancing. <BR>The ending, predictable at the outset, seems indefinitely suspended so that by mid way through, the reader yearns for everyone to be either left alone or released to an improved world.  However the predictable, becomes inevitable but the end of the siege is described in removed, almost balletic terms. Wonderful.  Read this book.<br />A few quibbles -  the country is never named, mainly referred to as ` this place' ` this hellhole' etc.  This is too cumbersome, Why not say Peru, or make up a name?  Some of the international characters have names which are <BR>Straight out of the headlines - the Russian character Lebed ( a tough general in the Yeltsin years) , the Vice President is Iglesias (reminiscent of the crooner)  (, the Japanese Watanabe ( equivalent of Smith), which doesn't help with the disbelief suspension.  However an excellent read.	2003-06-12
US	35906535	RBMC31807BVHU	0312131712	283370548	The Silent Angel: A Novel	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Bleak, austere, unforgettable	The overwhelming feeling you get when reading this book is the desperate struggle for short term survival. The background is a German city (possibly Cologne) in the first<BR>Days and weeks after the capitulation of the German army in 1945.  Every conversation is focused on bread - not even full meals, just slices of bread.  The city is bleak and devastated, the characters are transient figures struggling, dazed and nauseous, into whatever the future may hold.  Their pasts are briefly mentioned, but the conditions in which  they find themselves allow for almost total dislocation from their past lives.<br /> The language of the book is austere, the characters are not clearly distinguishable, the colours mentioned - apart from grey destruction - are greenish and yellowish hazes. These tune in with the bilious, nausea of the characters as they continuously search for food and shelter. Throughout the story each character is portrayed as exhausted, struggling, nauseous.<br /> The novels main character has deserted the German Army in the final days of the war, and under a certain sentence of death for desertion, has assumed numerous identities as he flees.  He has, however, promised a dead comrade that  he will return a coat to his comrade's widow.  A will is discovered in the lining of the coat and this yields an subplot of intrigue and corruption.  The main character meanwhile meets and briefly lives with a dazed, tragic woman who has been psychologically damaged by the war.<br /> The novel's main impression is the exhaustion of emotion, the breakdown of society brings about a breakdown of morality and order.  Stealing and dishonesty of all kinds are part of daily life, as are small gestures of generosity.  In the broken cityscape, there is neither trust nor complete anarchy, just a meandering from one slice of bread to the next.  Towards the end of the book , the main character has established a certain routine which allows him to steal coal from trains, which gives himsome power to barter. <br /> Boll's austere tale, gives us a view of the amoral aftermath of a societal dislocation. While neither describing nor moralizing, he shows us a set of normal characters and the lives they adopt to survive in the much reduced circumstances.	2003-05-05
US	35906535	RPHTYBW6JZUJC	0471089656	566112709	Piloting Palm: The Inside Story of Palm, Handspring, and the Birth of the Billion-Dollar Handheld Industry	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Piloting Palm Pulls Punches	This is the story of the handheld PDA and its development.   Originally an idea of <BR>Jeff Hawkins, he brought Donna Dubinsky on board as CEO to start a company to develop what became the Palm Pilot.  Along the way both struggle to get enough capital to continue to make the product a success.   They eventually get backing from <BR>3 Com and while the capital is available, dealing with 3Com management becomes a major issue.  Both eventually leave to from Handspring, and the story stops about a year into the new company, with Palm the dominant supplier of PDAs, but seemingly mismanaged, and Handspring's future uncertain.<br /> The punches are surely pulled when describing the investors of capital in the business (there were many) - why would the story be so torturous if there had been more belief among the major investors in either the product and/or the management?<BR>Another issue which I read into the story, is the sheer difficulty of working with the vision team that is Hawkins/Dubinsky - each non-Palm manger who is brought in by <BR>3 com to develop the product seems to be confused, visionless or plain wrong.  I began to have sympathy for the folks who had to manage Palm during the long-running dispute that led to their departure.  From this book's viewpoint it looks as if only the original team of true believers could deliver the product, the process and the profits.   I was not convinced.<br /> Hawkins seems to have developed the operating systems and handprint recognition software that was the basis of the original product.  He and Dubinsky argued against licensing this software while at Palm and yet were the primary beneficiaries of such a license when they formed Handspring.  Hawkins in particular seems obsessed with the product rather than the system, and this I feel must limit the<BR>Proliferation of the PDA concept - surely the reason that the PC overcame Apples' first mover advantage was the decision by IBM to license the operating system.  Most of theearly Palm personnel were ex-Apple, so maybe the lesson was not well learned.  <BR>[There is, incidentally, a deliciously vicious description of the failure of the Apple Newton, the first attempt at a mass market PDA] <BR> <BR> I came away from the book feeling that Hawkins/Dubinsky were an excellent, driven duo, who can inspire fierce loyalty and overcome challenges to develop a product, but their vision may not be wide enough to make the PDA a ubiquitous system, as opposed to a handy device for technophiles.	2003-05-05
US	35906535	R35NN32J8LZGCY	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	5	7	10	N	N	History with Bite!	This book sparkles!  History with opinions, researched facts coupled with unvarnished opinions.  Love them or hate them, you can't ignore them.  Macmillan feels that there was too much sentimental tosh about the Versailles Treaty being harsh on the Germans.   She tellingly points out  that within twenty years of the treaty the Germans had Europe at their feet, so  how could their nation and peoples have been vanquished, humiliated and rent asunder?   She has a sceptical eye for the `do-gooders' in the tale such as Woodrow Wilson and the various English Liberals - J.M Keynes, Harold Nicolson etc. who sought virtue rather than victory.  There are a huge cast of characters - Jan Smuts, Robert Cecil, Lord Curzon, who are described with economy and skill. Her main soft spot is for the French Prime Minster Clemenceau, a man usually portrayed as infirm,stubborn and  racked by desire for vengeance on Germany.  Macmillian gives us all of his stubbornness - when leaving the official opening of the Paris peace conference \\"Balfour (the languid British Foreign Secretary) turned to Clemenceau and apologized for his top hat. ` I was told', he said, ` that it was obligatory to wear one'.  `So', replied Clemenceau, in his bowler, ` was I'.<BR> The book illustrates the importance of events (dear boy!) and personalities on history, and paradoxically shows the impotence of the personalities assembled at Versallies to come to terms with the changes unleashed by the fall of the Central European Empires and the aspirations unleashed by Wilson's fourteen points [ `God himself was content with ten commandments' - Clemenceau again, quoted with no little relish!].  Their personal foibles - Lloyd George's manipulation, Wilson's arrogance and Clemenceau's stubbornness  - made the group dysfunctional, and Macmillian gives a brilliant description of this process.   The question which is begged, and unanswered, is whether the task was achievable in the first place.  Each of the main characters went to Versailles hoping the set the world to rights.    Can the forces unleashed by the desire for self-determination among peoples who self-definition is exclusive and antagonistic, be controlled by political agreement of the larger powers?  Who arbitrates right versus might?  These are questions we are still asking today.	2003-04-05
US	35906535	RBKZC6SRPF1IK	1578512212	732504203	Brand New : How Entrepreneurs Earned Consumers' Trust from Wedgwood to Dell	Books	4	2	5	N	N	a very useful and interesting business history book	Did you know that in 1859 Americans consumed about eight pounds of coffee per year, per capita?  Or that by 1939 it was fourteen pounds?  If this is your cup of tea, then I think you will like this book.  This is not a criticism, I liked the book because it looks at the growth in demand which was supplied by the entrepreneurs who formed the brands described in the book.  Indeed this demand-side view is part of the book that made the biggest impact on me. <BR> Some of this is obvious, but somewhat in the backround of our knowledge - \\"between 1860 and 1920 the population of the US grew from 31.5 to 107 million\\" - and some of this is well extracted in this book - e.g. \\"in 1844 (when Henry J. Heinz was born)less than 10% of American's lived in towns of greater than 2,500 population, 75 years later (when he died) 50% were urban dwellers and 20% lived in cities of greater than 250,000 people\\".   Koehn builds up this demand side very well in each of the six cases she uses to illustrate who entrepreneurs build up branded business - Wedgwood , Heinz, Marshall-Fields, Estee Lauder, Starbucks and Dell.<BR> Koehn, a Harvard business historian, is also quite good at showing how developing technology is put to use to serve this demand (or does it create it?) - \\"In 1830 it took three weeks to get calico from New York to Chicago, in 1860 it took three days, by 1880 ... less than 24 hours\\"<BR>Again we all knew the importance of the railroad, but here its phrased in a way that makes sense of the dynamic growth and gentrification of the Mid West.  She illustrates well the need that urbanisation created for prepared food that could be trusted and describes very well the increasing sophistication of industrial level food preparation  - \\" by the 1860;s the introduction of calcium chloride to boiling water cut sterilization times from five hours to 25 minutes\\".  She can even make innovations in canning technology sound exciting.  <br /> So much for the good stuff,  I did find the tone ofthe descriptions of each entrepreneurs a bit fawning.  Each had the feel of a business case, with the usual tone of awe and deference to the wit and wisdom of the main characters.  With the exception of the Starbucks case - where Howard Shultz openly tells of his mistakes and wrong turnings - each case seems to highlight the wisdom of the main character, whereas it seems to me its their determination that marks them out, more than anything else.  Henry Heinz went bankrupt three times in food products, before he became successful, Michael Dell was still seen as a cloner into the late 1980's.  <BR>Koehn makes no judgements about the more unpleasant side of this determination - Estee Lauder staged a meeting with the Duke of Windsor, which she had photographed and publicised, in order to make it appear she had high-society connections,  Josiah Wedgwood supplied free gifts to royalty in the certain knowledge that the aspirations of the  middle classes to emulate royalty would drive demand for this his products.<BR> There are good insights into how these individuals drove modern marketing techniques - Wedgwood emphasized showrooms, Estee Lauder the free gift.  And all had tremendous energy for customer service and production detail.  However in each of the early cases   we are told that 20th Century techniques were unknown to the industry \\" Brand marketing was virtually unheard of in the 18th Century\\" [ Wedgwood]; \\" Between 1869 and 1899, real per capita income increased at an annual compound rate of 2.1%.  Henry Heinz had no access to these statistics. These numbers are based on economic concepts developed in the 20th Century\\".  This kind of clumsiness crops up in each case, ok we get the point that these pioneers instinctively did something which is now solidified into great theory,  but surely this point could be illustrated with more deftness.<br /> This apart, a very useful and interesting book, a book for anyone interested in the general history of business.  Some excellent details, too much fawning and praise too little criticism of the central characters who built the brands.   A fascinating story.<BR>If you liked this book, check out books by Arthur Chandler and John Drewer. <br /> One final fact, Charles Darwin had the time and money to devote to his famous voyage on the Beagle - which laid the basis for the theory of Evolution - because his wife's grandfather was Joshua Wedgwood.  Was this financial evolution at work?	2003-04-05
US	35906535	R2G06TWO1M3QU	0195198476	926655235	The English Catholic Community, 1570-1850	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Good on  'internals' of the community,poor on interactions	This book was referenced in Barry Cowards \\"The Stuart Age\\" (an excellent description of 17th Century UK history), and I was hoping to get a detailed description of the trials and tribulations of the English Catholic Community.  The book itself is out of print and I got it on inter-library loan eventually.<BR> <BR>I have two issues with this book - firstly its a historian's history book but more importantly its focus is on the internal evolution of English Catholic Community almost to the exclusion of outside influences. <br />For the general reader this is not an introductory  book,  it would be necessary to understand the major events in the post-Elizabethan English Catholic history  - the formation of the seminary at Douai in 1568, the suppression of the English Jesuits 1773,  the restoration of the English hierarcy 1850 and much more.   The author takes it as assumed that the reader is familiar with this, and comments on the impact of these and many other events. <br />The main area of disappointment for me was the fact that the book is purely focused on the various elements of the English Catholic community of the period - there is no commentary on the how the majority of the English population changed from Roman Catholic to Anglican within 30 years, there is no direct references to  the interaction of the remaining Catholics with the state - how did they live?  What level of threat/intimation did they face?  Did this wax and wane through the period. There are various references - an almost throw-away remark describing the fate of some travelling missionary Jesuits (burnt), a description of how Catholic gentry restricted the activities of priests who lived on their estates (presumably as a compromise with the local authorities) and descriptions of how various disputes about the ownership of Catholic properties had no recourse to common law even as late as 1811.  I read the book to try to understand the process by which the Catholic community co-existed with other religions in this period, and how the various classes within this community pursued their daily lives in terms of politics, business and freedom of expression.<BR>None of this is to be found in the book.<br />On the positive side however there are some fascinating insights into the politics of the English Catholic Community.  In the late 1500s the English Catholic hierarchy felt that the church would be restored, and that no real `push' was needed. As the 1600's dawned a most activist `missionary' movement emerged - driven by the counter-reformation and the Jesuits in particular- which created real tensions in Catholic community. A restoration assumed return of confiscated Church lands, something which the remaining Catholic gentry in England realized would be akin to a revolution. Hence the gentry facilitated the missionary movement, whose objective was the conversion of souls rather than restoration of status quo ante.  However even then the missionaries were restricted in their activities by the gentry.<br />Bossy does some valuable work in illustrating the growth in the size of the Catholic Community during this period - he deduces that the community grew or at least was stable in size during this period. Towards the end (1830's) the community grew rapidly due to an influx of Irish immigrants and an intellectual rediscovery of faith<BR>(e.g. Newman's Oxford).  This belies a belief in unremitting  persecution of Catholics during the period, however, as mentioned earlier, it is not clear how Catholics interacted with the official state during this period.<BR>There are good description of the lives and day-to-day religious practice of the various classes in the make up of the Catholic Clergy during the times. Also there is a vivid description of the tensions between the mass of population, the missionary clergy and the soon-to-be re-established hierarchy in the first fifty years of the 1800's.<br />In summary, this book cleaves tightly to the its title, being focused on the internal dynamics of the community during the period described.  It disappointed me in leaving out the interaction of that community with emerging state and in leaving out any description of how the Community of 1570 differed from that of pre-reformation times.	2003-02-13
US	35906535	R3EO5F0JXCSZBV	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Sympathetic biography, some 'warts' not fully exposed	I read and liked McCullough's biography of Truman, so when John Adams came out I wanted to read it, even though I knew very little about the 2nd President.  Like Truman, McCullogh;s biography of Adams is very detailed and quite sympathetic. He gives us a good view of the small, energetic, persuasive lawyer from simple New England roots, who  took on an empire. He conveys some of the passion that drove Adams to convince the Continental Congress to take on an Empire, and declare Independance.  He makes it clear that this, not the Presidency, was the achievement of which Adams felt most proud.  Like Truman, Adams felt very isolated and lonely in office and longed for New England throughout.<BR>The correspondance between Adams and his wife is a main source for this book, however at key points in his life - particularly during his Presidency - seems to have been too busy to write and at these points the narrative, in my opinion, goes flat.<BR>Just before this book I read 'Founding Brothers' by Joseph Ellis.  It gives brief, yet telling, outlines of the main characters in the US war for Independance. Adams in portrayed as a man who in life was quite impetuous and sharp-tongued, who, towards the end of his days, felt slighted by the common perception of his role in the run-up to the Declaration of Independance.  In particular he is portrayed as feeling jealous of the role that was ascribed to Thomas Jefferson - who Ellis portrays in all his complexity. Ellis views Adams vanity and need for vindication by history as the reason for Adams' reconciliation with Jefferson in the last years of their lives.  McCulloghs portrays Adams as a kindly retiree, reaching out a hand of friendship to Jefferson many years after major conflicts between them.  I find Ellis description more convincing.<BR> Overall McCullogh has written an accessible and sympathetic portrait of Adams and his contemporaries, a good primer.  However if you want to dig a little deeper I would recommend Ellis' book.	2002-12-18
