US	35922083	R1CTKOATIAXAVH	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Even Better After Visiting the Town	I first read MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL several years ago and thought the book to be quite entertaining.  Since then, I have had the opportunity to visit Savannah (thanks Mom for moving to Georgia) and decided to re-read it after touring many of the places featured in the book, such as Mercer House and Clary's diner.  The book is even better when you are familiar with the town.<br /><br />As is probably well known, the book is separated into two parts.  The first part presents a picture of Savannah and its unusual inhabitants.  The writing is exceptional and draws the reader into its environment.  One gets the feel for how isolated Savannah is from the rest of the country and, indeed, even from the rest of Georgia.  The result is an eccentric town that has gone its own way and wants to keep it that way.<br /><br />The second part of the book details the several murder trials of antiques dealer Jim Williams.  This story would have been remarkable had it occurred anywhere.  That it took place in the social isolation chamber of Savannah makes it that much more delicious.  As an aside, let me state that a tour of the Mercer House does give one a greater appreciation for Jim Williams' lifestyle and success.  What a setting for a real life crime story.<br /><br />If you do happen to get down to Savannah, allow me to tell you of a great souvenir.  Jim Williams' neighbor, Virginia Duncan, is mentioned at the beginning of Chapter 10.  She and her husband run a print and map shop on Monterey Square and they sell books not only signed by the author (a dime a dozen in Savannah) but also signed by Minerva, the voodoo priestess featured in the book.  Now that is a keepsake.	2005-10-10
US	35922083	R2QKFBGXF6AWAM	0786887842	963014891	Rabbit-Proof Fence	Books	3	9	13	N	N	As Slow Moving As the Escape Itself	Even the best of countries has its dark spots.  In one of the best of countries - Australia - half-white, half-aborigine children were taken from their homes in a forced assimilation into white society.  RABBIT-PROOF FENCE is about three young girls who ran away from this forced assimilation and walked back to their native people across the Australian outback.  Although the story is interesting, the writing is such that getting through the book, even at a slim 130 pages, is as slow and plodding as the girls' trek itself. <br /> <br />The first half of the book is a snapshot history of Western Australia.  Although some points are interesting, it is far too disorganized and even rambling to provide a solid picture of the period.  This is further complicated by the author's slant of the native people living in peace and harmony before the brutish white man came along.  No doubt there is truth to this, even a large degree of truth.  But as the aborigines are later described as voluntarily working for whites and describing certain employers in positive terms, it is obvious that the full story and texture of the environment is not provided. <br /> <br />The latter part of the book describes the girls' actual journey from the southern part of Western Australia to the north, following the rabbit-proof fence which dissects the country and will lead them home.  Even given the lifeless writing style, one cannot help but be impressed with the tenacity this required, especially as they had professional trackers on their trail.  This book is good for someone interested in Austalia but be forwarned that the writing is not up to telling a tale such as this.	2005-09-27
US	35922083	R12CQTTGCX6XYX	0553276735	458595325	No Comebacks	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Like Ten Shots From a Semi-Automatic	Very few writers are equally good at both novels and short stories.  I will not leave you in suspense - Frederick Forsyth is a better novelist.  That is not a problem, however, as his novels are strong enough that he can dip a bit below that level and still be quite good.  NO COMEBACKS demonstrates this.    As one would expect from Forsyth, the stories in this collection often have either a violent or malicious undercurrent to them or explore the inner recesses of man's psyche.  Many of the stories have a bit of a twist at the end, with some easy to see, others a bit harder, while still others appear to be apparent only to take a last minute swerve to somewhere else.  My personal favorite is Money With Menace because it illustrates one of my favorite principles - you should not mess with someone even if he looks to be a sap because you never know when that other guy is tougher and nastier than you.  The story Duty is out of place, which Forsyth acknowledges in a footnote.  But as it is claimed to be true, I am glad it is included and the story did stay with me for a while after reading it.    Forsyth unfortunately tends to be far too technical with some of his descriptions.  Usually this is easily overlooked but becomes irritating in the story The Emperor with its details of fishing equipment.  I suppose, however, that one does not earn Forsyth's reputation without an eye for detail and one cannot blame a man for showing it.  Get the book to read a story or two between larger and heavier books and you will not be disappointed.	2005-09-07
US	35922083	R3EZ2T4GN4DWL2	0300103050	958790976	One World: The Ethics of Globalization (The Terry Lectures)	Books	1	34	66	N	N	Peter's Singing Out of Tune	This is the third book by Peter Singer which I have read and therefore I knew what to expect - arguments propped up with poor logic yet nonetheless presented to the reader with the tone one would expect as if Singer were repeating the obvious for the umpteenth time.  Yet like the man who just has to take one last whiff of spoiled milk before tossing it down the drain, I found myself reaching for ONE WORLD on the book shelf to get Singer's take on globalization.  I usually am not such a glutton for punishment but I guess the human psyche is funny that way.<br /><br />The biggest problem with ONE WORLD is the same as with all of Singer's writings.  He assumes that the big questions of ethics, over which some of the most brilliant minds in history have pondered, have all been resolved.  And, of course, they have all been resolved in his favor.  The result is that Singer presents ideas that actually require intellectual defense as axiomatic starting points from which he begins.<br /><br />One need only to examine the introduction to see this. The very first page of text states that national leaders either view things from the perspective of national self-interest or they view things ethically.  Nice false dichotomy, huh?  Even if one agrees with Singer's conclusion, there are numerous views of ethics that point in the other direction.  Some would view a self-interested or national-interested position as good in and of itself.  Others would argue that a non-global view actually benefits more people worldwide through the beneficial interactions between parties and because anyone thinking globally would have far too many factors to consider for any decision and therefore would create mischief through unintended consequences.<br /><br />Also in the introduction, Singer asserts that the United Nations is the only institution that may legitimately project force in the international arena specifically because any nation may join.  He contrasts this with an institution such as NATO which has specific requirements for membership.  Yet once again, Singer does nothing to address the possibility that perhaps ethics points in the other direction, i.e. because any nation may join actually gives the United Nations less authority than a selected group of free states in which membership has its requirements.<br /><br />Such faulty premises riddle ONE WORLD's treatment of issues both large and small.  Singer supports the International Criminal Court and criticizes the United States for not signing on without any analysis as to the U.S.'s unique position as the world's sole superpower and how this might be a solid and justifiable basis for the U.S. to follow a different path.  After all, most countries are not able to project their militaries globally and few are asked to do so.  To compare their actions with those of the U.S. seems rather specious.<br /><br />Singer advocates - uh, I mean ethics dictates - a significantly higher tax rate on people in wealthy nations.  The economics behind this are not discussed nor is there any meaningful discussion of how economics and ethics might intersect on this issue.  If lower tax rates produce more overall wealth due to expansion of the economy (which, by the way, is the case), then any ethics worth its name should advocate such.  This would produce more money for those in affluent nations while providing poor nations an impetus for changing inefficient economies.  Singer attempts to get around this by focusing on poor people rather than on poor nations and stating that these people need help now.  Maybe so, but so will their children and their children's children, etc. etc. etc. until systematic changes are put into place.  Singer's ethics would prevent this from happening.  Examples of such sloppy thinking and inferential leaps go on and on throughout the book.<br /><br />Singer even fails to properly support his apparently boundless enthusiasm for the United Nations.  Although he acknowledges that the U.N. needs reform, his discussion of this is anemic.  He suggests that the U.N. should refuse to recognize any government that rules without the support of its people but fails to explain how this differs in any meaningful way from a collection of self-selected states, such as NATO, which he has already deemed inferior to the U.N. on the specific ground that the U.N. is open to all nations.  No mention is made to numerous U.N. scandals over the years.<br /><br />Nor does Singer address the U.N.'s rather pathetic history of negotiating relationships between its members.  What does it say that the one single nation which has had the most U.N. resolutions passed against it - Israel - is a free, liberal democracy that guarantees free speech, freedom of religion and civil rights to all of its citizens regardless of race or ethnicity?  Are we really to believe that Israel's neighbors have better track records with respect to human rights?  Of course not.  Yet no other Middle Eastern state feels the lash of the U.N.'s whip like Israel.  Singer does nothing to address either this specific issue or, more importantly, the larger issues about how the U.N. functions that this example illuminates.<br /><br />Singer is so blind in his devotion to the U.N. that he writes, with respect to Kofi Annan sitting by while a genocide was taking place in Rwanda, that Annan has learned from this situation.  Let us put aside the uncomfortable argument that there is little evidence to support the proposition that Annan has learned anything.  Instead, let us focus on Singer giving Annan what amounts to little more than a slap on the wrist while harshly criticizing the United States for taking military action that has a verifiable track record of destroying tyrannies, freeing millions of people and setting up the foundations for free, independent governments.  Like to hear it or not, more people in this world are free because of U.S. military power than because of any other single factor.  What could possibly account for this discrepancy other than a results oriented approach, i.e. Singer gives Annan the pass because Annan's aspirations of one world government are consistent with Singer's own?<br /><br />Not surprisingly, the United States comes in for heavy criticism in ONE WORLD.  It is telling that Singer feels the need to employ verbal inflation about the U.S. \\"dominating over\\" and \\"ruling\\" the rest of the world.  But Singer's criticism of the U.S. depends on one buying into his views.  As I do not, I point to Singer's criticism of the U.S. as evidence that the U.S. is doing things basically right.  It will be a sad day in America if its foreign policy is ever complimented by Peter Singer.mic.  He suggests that the U.N. should refuse to recognize any government that rules without the support of its people but fails to explain how this differs in any meaningful way from a collection of self-selected states, such as NATO, which he has already deemed inferior to the U.N. on the specific ground that the U.N. is open to all nations.  No mention is made to numerous U.N. scandals over the years.      Nor does Singer address the U.N.'s rather pathetic history of negotiating relationships between its members.  What does it say that the one single nation which has had the most U.N. resolutions passed against it - Israel - is a free, liberal democracy that guarantees free speech, freedom of religion and civil rights to all of its citizens regardless of race or ethnicity?  Are we really to believe that Israel's neighbors have better track records with respect to human rights?  Of course not.  Yet no other Middle Eastern state feels the lash of the U.N.'s whip like Israel.  Singer does nothing to address either this specific issue or, more importantly, the larger issues about how the U.N. functions that this example illuminates.    Singer is so blind in his devotion to the U.N. that he writes, with respect to Kofi Annan sitting by while a genocide was taking place in Rwanda, that Annan has learned from this situation.  Let us put aside the uncomfortable argument that there is little evidence to support the proposition that Annan has learned anything.  Instead, let us focus on Singer giving Annan what amounts to little more than a slap on the wrist while harshly criticizing the United States for taking military action that has a verifiable track record of destroying tyrannies, freeing millions of people and setting up the foundations for free, independent governments.  Like to hear it or not, more people in this world are free because of U.S. military power than because of any other single factor.  What could possibly account for this discrepancy other than a results oriented approach, i.e. Singer gives Annan the pass because Annan's aspirations of one world government are consistent with Singer's own?    Not surprisingly, the United States comes in for heavy criticism in ONE WORLD.  It is telling that Singer feels the need to employ verbal inflation about the U.S. \\"dominating over\\" and \\"ruling\\" the rest of the world.  But Singer's criticism of the U.S. depends on one buying into his views.  As I do not, I point to Singer's criticism of the U.S. as evidence that the U.S. is doing things basically right.  It will be a sad day in America if its foreign policy is ever complimented by Peter Singer.	2005-08-25
US	35922083	R3DQ8RO22C38WK	0972456910	516138449	Black & White World II	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A Litmus Test For a Sense of Humor	A good political cartoon should make one laugh even if one disagrees with the politics.  Although I do not agree with its take on things, I nonetheless am a fan of This Modern World, a political cartoon by Tom Tomorrow.  The art is original and it expresses its ideas in an equally original, and funny, manner even though I typically disagree with them.    It would be nice to think that others would feel the same way about BLACK & WHITE WORLD II.  The artwork is among the best I have seen in political cartooning and the cartoons express ideas in an original and hilarious way.  Cox and Forkum are extremely good at taking some current event, distilling it down to a basic idea and presenting that idea in a visual format that knocks the reader for a loop.  As a bonus, many cartoons are accompanied by commentary placing them in context so that they may be appreciated even more.     Cox and Forkum, however, are not blind devotees of conservatism.  Forkum is an avowed Objectivist influenced by the philosophy of Ayn Rand and one suspects Cox is as well.  Many of their cartoons therefore take shots at the political right over such things as interfering with the free market and introducing religion into the public sphere.  I was a little surprised at how many times George W. Bush took it on the chin in this volume.    BLACK & WHITE WORLD II is a good litmus test to determine whether one has a good sense of humor.  This is true for conservatives as, again, the authors are not cheerleaders for that cause.  But it is even more so for a person on the left as any liberal who cannot crack a smile over this book really, really needs to chill out.	2005-08-22
US	35922083	R83VHHF8UGRTZ	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A Rare Instance of the Movie Being Better	Like many others, I read THE BOURNE IDENTITY because I enjoyed the movie so much.  The book is always better, right?  Well, not always.  Although THE BOURNE IDENTITY is an okay book, it is an example of the fortunately rare event of the movie being better.  The book does not have the swift pace and action of the movie and often bogs down in useless plot twists that add little to the plot but protract the book to an unnecessary degree.    For instance, in the movie, Bourne discovers the implant in his hip, goes to the bank, discovers large wads of cash and weapons, withdraws it, leaves and - BAM - onto the action.  The book, by contrast, has Bourne facing the intracacies of -GASP - an arcane banking regulation that prevents him from withdrawing his cash.  Not exactly the reason I read a political espionage thriller.    Bourne's relationship with the woman Marie is also rather tough to swallow.  After Bourne takes her hostage and really treats her rather roughly, she realizes that he is really a good guy and so her feelings of hostility turn to feelings of love instead.  Come on!  Even if her hostility were to abate, it is too much of a stretch for her to fall for Bourne that hard, that fast and under those circumstances.    The portrayal of Bourne's relationship with Marie is further undermined by the truly sappy language the author employs.  The text is full of references to \\"my love,\\" \\"my darling,\\" \\"love me Jason, just love me\\" and further such wince-inducing dialogue.  I am sorry, call me a purist, but the only times the words \\"my love\\" or \\"my darling\\" should appear in a book of this nature is when a man is talking about his feelings towards a particular piece of semi-automatic weaponry to get an assignment done. Over the top writing is, alas, not limited to Bourne's and Marie's love fests but pervades the entire book.  Bourne's flashbacks are written in a similar fashion.    Again, THE BOURNE IDENTITY is not bad.  In fact, it is pretty good.  But if a reader is looking for the excitement and action of the movie, well folks, I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but you will not find it here.	2005-08-21
US	35922083	R3JGZ3E58I5OCO	0679723250	525245685	The Postman Always Rings Twice	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Literary Punch to the Stomach	I picked up THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE as I heard it compared favorably to the works of Dashiell Hammett.  What I discovered was 100 plus pages of violence and moral vacuity that made Hammett look flabby and sentimental by comparison.  James Cain was not content to portray his characters as morally bankrupt.  He obviously thought it more effective to shove moral bankruptcy right into the reader's face. <br /> <br />The action moves very fast.  Frank meets Cora and the attraction is electric.  Their first physical encounter is brutish.  That she is married makes not a whit of difference.  Cora describes her husband in the most repulsive terms imaginable.  They plot to kill him.  Everything goes wrong.   <br /> <br />It is not difficult to see why POSTMAN was surrounded by controversy upon its release.  The violence and sex are right up front.  The characters show no misgivings about the adultery they commit.  But I think the real issue with this book, what really sent people into tizzy fits, is the atmosphere.  One would have to look long and hard to find characters so bleak and amoral.  That Cain allows these characters to unfold as they do without a word of disapproval compounds the effect.  For those interested in hard noir, here it is.	2005-08-09
US	35922083	R13W89YGHBNWSS	0385509057	87980577	Right to Exist: A Moral Defense of Israel's Wars	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Israel Has Earned the Right	This is a good book for someone like me.  I realize that Israel's cause is just and that, as one of the few democracies in the Middle East (and the only one until very recently), it deserves my support.  I also find it hard to articulate just how disgusting the all out Jew-hatred is among too many Muslims and Western intellectuals and how stomach-turning the Palestinians have become with their tactics.  Even without every detail at my disposal, I know the Palestinians have rejected their own state at least twice and now blame Israel for their present circumstances.  Yet I wanted more information on these subjects and RIGHT TO EXIST by Yaacov Lozowick provided it.    The book is a bit slow going at first by taking us through the history of Zionism and how it developed into a burgeoning movement in the late 19th to early 20th Centuries.  For people not of a Jewish background, many of the Hebrew terms and place names can be a tad difficult to keep straight.  But groundwork must be laid and here it is.    The middle sections of the book pick up steam and discuss the particulars of Israel's various wars.  Lozowick is exceptionally impressive here as he in no way attempts to sidestep numerous mistakes Israel has made in her history in the conduct of these wars.  Yet the point is never lost that these mistakes were made within the context of just wars inflicted upon Israel by neighboring Islamic states that simply refuse to recognize a Jewish state.  Further, the mistakes Israel has made have been the exceptions.  For the most part, Israel recognizes how to fight its fights in a moral fashion and has done so even in the absence of one scrap of reciprocity.      Lozowick is persuasive in his argument that the main sticking point with those Muslims that would like to see Israel destroyed is not due to some mistreatement of the Palestinians.  For most of its history, the Palestinian issue was a minor one in the Arab world which wanted to destroy Israel anyway.  Rather the issue is the refusal of many Muslims to see Jews as anything other than a helpless minority.  Jews who can pack a punch are a serious threat to the Muslim mentality.    Far from expelling Palestinians, most Palestinians voluntarily left at Israel's creation to join fellow Arabs in their initial attempt to destroy the nascent country.  They fully expected to return to their land after wiping the Jews out and now cry buckets when the Jews not only won but have kept the land that they won fair and square.  Further, we rarely hear of the much larger number of Jews expelled from their homelands throughout the Islamic world who then headed to Israel because they had nowhere else to go.  What about their so-called right of return?  Lozowick discusses this hypocrisy and places it in the proper context of anti-Jewish sentiment.    The final third of the book absolutely redeems its slow start.  Lozowick discusses Israel's current crisis involving the Palestinians and provides the reader a lot to chew on.  What, he asks, can Israel possibly offer the Palestinians that has not already been offered?  And exactly how does one trust a negotiating partner that promised in front of the entire world to put an end to the violence only to escalate it immediately?  How could Israel have responded to the second intifada except to take the fight to the terrorists themselves?  Even if one were as sympathetic as could be to the Palestinian cause, one cannot help but reach the conclusion that much of their misery is of their own making.     Some of the anecdotes Lozowick employs are deeply troubling.  A group of Israel liberals placed an advertisement in a weekly magazine recognizing all those killed in the previous year due to violence.  They controversially included the suicide bombers themselves.  Yet when they asked their Palestinian counterparts to also print the ad, the Palestinians refused.  They could not mourn the death of Jews lost in the conflict even given the barbaric ways in whichthey died.  What is striking about this is that these Palestinians were not the extremists, nor were they even the moderate middle (whatever that means in this context).  These were the enlightened elite of Palestinian society!  These were the ones most willing to build a bridge with the Israelis!  If they would not publish the ad, what does this tell us about the rest of their society?  At the least, it should open the reader's eyes to exactly what the Israelis are dealing with.    One final point is worth noting as I never saw it anywhere else and it was really rather interesting.  Let us assume that an independent state of Palestine is created.  Israel would almost certainly have to divide Jerusalem and so people would be living in the same city who were not only of different backgrounds but literally citizens of different states.  Putting aside all the specific factors that make the Israeli-Palestinian issue so complex, there would still arise another issue.  Israel is an affluent nation and would become even more successful if it could devote more of its energies to commerce.  But what of Palestine?  Every non-oil producing Arab state is a third-world country with a corrupt government.  Perhaps Palestine would be the exception (it would have Israel right next door as a good example of the benefits of free enterprise) but perhaps not.  Putting aside all other issues, citizens living in a poor and corrupt country are often quite hostile to citizens of more successful nations.  Are we to presume that this hostility would do anything other than increase if the citizens of the rich nation are not only in the neighboring country, but are literally living across the street?  The situation would be one combining the tensions between successful and non-successful nations with the tensions of extreme proximity.  A thought, again, to chew on.    It is fair to say that solutions are a long way off.  In the meantime, the best that can probably be done is to educate ourselves on the issues so that we know what we are talking about.  RIGHT TO EXIST may not have all the answers, it may not even have some of them, but it does what it can.  At this point, that is more than enough.	2005-07-19
US	35922083	R311R54LY9N2SZ	089526076X	905276632	Unholy Alliance: Radical Islam and the American Left	Books	4	44	57	N	N	Really, What Is It With These People?	The political Left has always seemed rather nonchalant about the rather gross disparity between its vaunted ideals and the barbaric regimes that claimed to embody them.  But at least when the Soviet Union was around, Leftists could claim to support a nation that spoke to their ideals even if the Soviets, to put it mildly, did not live up to them.  After 9/11, one can only look at these same Leftists and their knee-jerk support for every radical Islamist and shake one's head in wonder.  Radical Islamists do not even pretend to stand for the ideals of leftism.  Indeed, they explicitly stand for everything the Left claims to oppose.  So why do so many leftists throw tizzy fits when the U.S. takes legitimate steps to defend itself against radical Islamists after having been attacked? <br /> <br />Horowitz answers this question in UNHOLY ALLIANCE and does so with his typical flair.  As is his style, Horowitz analyzes the mentality of leftists and demonstrates how that mentality reacts to certain situations and events.  The Left, as Horowitz pounds home, is not concerned with any existing political structure or institution but only with its own utopian ideal.  As it is an ideal, any existing country is bound to come up short by comparison.  Indeed, one of Horowitz's better points is that with the collapse of Soviet communism, the Left does not even have to go through the motions of anchoring its ideals to an actually existing country but instead can do its best to tear down whatever stands in the way of implementing the utopian vision without any realistic political restraint. <br /> <br />Pursuant to its vision, the support of Islamic radicalism by the American Left is one of mutual goals.  Radical Islamists hate the U.S., as does the Left, and a partnership is born.  Horowitz does an excellent job of demonstrating that this support of radical Islam by the Left does in fact exist and has its roots in a shared contempt for the U.S. and its values.  Horowitz also does an excellent job of showing the connections between radical Islam and the institutions of the Left and demonstrating how the ideals of anti-Americanism have had such a corrosive effect on American politics, particularly within the Democratic Party. <br /> <br />UNHOLY ALLIANCE gets a bit tedious at times with the degree of detail it provides of all the interconnections between the Left and Islamic radicals.  This may be important to know but it can be rather dry to read.  Also, although as should be clear by reading this review, I have no hesitation from taking off the gloves and knocking some people around, even I found it a bit tiring to read time and again of Horowitz calling this person a Stalinist and that person a Maoist and this other person a Communist...etc., etc. etc.  But, hey, we all know what Horowitz is like and there is no believer like a convert. <br /> <br />The unfortunate reality is that, despite the unparalleled opportunities the United States provides, there are those who hate us simply for who we are.  Radical Islam and the Americal Left are two such groups who come by their respective contempt for America via different routes.  We need all the ammo we can get to combate them and, on intellectual terms, UNHOLY ALLIANCE provides a solid shot.	2005-06-01
US	35922083	RUXQMNE34KB8S	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Practical Bio-ethics (no spoiler)	Although this review will not contain a spoiler for NEVER LET ME GO's big secret (except to say that it somehow involves bio-ethics), let me assure any reader that knowing the plot twist should in no way stop you from reading the book.  I did know the secret beforehand and, to be honest, am glad I did.  If I had not known, then I would have been so busy trying to solve the riddles that I would have been distracted from the meaning imbued within the clues that are dropped.   <br /> <br />On to the book.  There is usually a significant time lapse between scientific advances and a society's social and cultural ability to absorb such changes.  In the area of biological advances in science, issues directly touching on our ability to prolong life have called into question such issues as how valuable human life is and to what extent should we go to save human life.   <br /> <br />The dearth of artistic expressions of such issues has created a vacuum that unfortunately has been filled with the likes of Peter Singer, a bio-ethicist who believes that because what makes humans human is difficult to properly articulate, it must therefore be morally irrelevant.  Taking this starting point, Singer proceeds to diminish humanity with a logic so steely cold that it would make an executioner turn green with envy. <br /> <br />NEVER LET ME GO is a large step towards balancing this disparity.  That is not to say that Ishiguro is particularly interested in bio-ethical issues.  For all I know, he has no such interest whatsoever and simply wanted to write a good book.  Yet any good novelist transcends the specific story he writes and touches upon the zeitgeist of his times.  This Ishiguro does and that he set the book in the near past indicates that this was his intent. <br /> <br />The story involves Kathy telling of her past at a prestigious school called Hailsham.  Although the surface of the story discusses the same mundane childhood events that may be familiar to all of us, there arelittle hints thrown in that something is a bit different.  Exactly what that difference is and how it affects Kathy and her classmates is told subtly, so that by the time we learn the truth, we are sufficietly attached to the characters to view them more personally, more humanly, than we might have had the story been told from a different perspective.  Ishiguro shifts the perspective sufficiently so as to make us examine certain issues anew. <br /> <br />Had NEVER LET ME GO been more bombastic, it would not have worked as well.  Happily, Ishiguro has the talent to present us with a very good read packed with moral complexity.  I recommend it highly. <br /> <br />	2005-05-15
US	35922083	ROTM4DK3MKMYD	0786715480	938639083	The Italian Secretary: A Further Adventure of Sherlock Holmes	Books	4	52	57	N	N	To  Scotland, Watson!!!	Being familiar both with the Sherlock Holmes tales and the fiction of Caleb Carr, I approached this book with interest.  The result was a worthwhile read as Carr sends Holmes and Watson off to investigate murder and intrigue in Scotland. <br /> <br />As a Caleb Carr novel, THE ITALIAN SECRETARY is quite good.  The book is exciting and the plot holds the reader's interest.  Carr greatly expands the character of Mycroft Holmes, Sherlock's brother, who has a special though vaguely defined relationship with the queen.  Mycroft calls upon his brother and Watson to investigate murders that may call the queen's safety into question.   <br /> <br />As a Sherlock Holmes story, the result is a bit weaker.  Carr captures the relationship between Holmes and Watson very well.  His portrayal of their individual personalities is fairly good though just slightly off.  This does not disrupt the story, however, and merely serves to remind us that Carr is not a clone of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.   <br /> <br />Carr's weak spot is that his portrayal of Holmes' logic is not as tight as one might have hoped.  Although some clues are presented to the reader, they are tied together far more loosely than in the original stories.  Although Doyle himself would sometimes have Holmes make inferential leaps, those times stood out starkly as the exceptions to the rule.  Indeed, one major plot twist is presented by Holmes stating what he had earlier observed even though no clue whatsoever had been presented to the reader.  This makes THE ITALIAN SECRETARY read more like a crime novel than a detective novel. <br /> <br />Another point to note is the subtle supernatural aspect that Carr employs in the book.  Although he tries to gloss this over in the final chapter, it nonetheless feels artificial in a Sherlock Holmes tale. <br /> <br />I realize that many Sherlock Holmes fans read books such as this simply to look for fault and errors and I therefore make the above criticisms hesitantly.  This is a Caleb Carr book and should be judged as such.  And, as stated above, it reads quite well from that perspective.  I include such criticisms for the purists who would read the book from a different perspective.  For everyone else, sit back and enjoy.	2005-04-23
US	35922083	R39D077H2XZILA	0679603360	182712905	The City: A Global History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Take a Trip to the City	As I live in the world famous metropolis of Cleveland, one can imagine that I have an interest in the subject of cities.  After all, not all cities grow to be as big and influential on the world stage as this Great Lakes powerhouse.  Joel Kotkin's book THE CITY was therefore much anticipated. <br /> <br />Kotkin states that successful cities perform three basic functions:  1) create sacred spaces, 2) provide basic security and 3) host a commercial market.  THE CITY traces how these functions spurred the development of cities and shaped their evolution from earliest civilization to the present day.  The book also demonstrates how the failure of a city to provide any of these basic functions leads to that city's decline and sometimes destruction.  Although cities have taken various shapes in areas as different as ancient China, Egypt, the Roman Empire, Europe of the industrial age and the modern day United States, the success or failure of cities still depends on a few distinct factors. <br /> <br />The implications are useful to the present day.  Industrial cities that have lost population would do well to spend less time trying to emulate the hip culture of, say, San Francisco or Seattle and spend more time developing a local culture conducive to new forms of business while also taking steps to curb crime.   <br /> <br />Kotkin tends to throw in a comment that leans a bit to the left here and there but for the most part the book is apolitical.  The writing is quite readable which, combined with its small size, makes it easy to take a quick trip into THE CITY.	2005-04-14
US	35922083	RYAX313N0P46A	0817945121	152023957	Anti-Americanism in Europe: A Cultural Problem (Hoover Institution Press Publication)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	A Few Jewels In An Exceptionally Burdensome Text	Although anti-Americanism has been around for years, there has recently been a significant upsurge.  Several worthwhile books have been published as a result such as ANTI-AMERICANISM by Jean Francois Revel.  While Revel's book is more polemical in nature, ANTI-AMERICANISM IN EUROPE by Russell Berman is more empirical and analytical.  Unfortunately, despite some good points, it is also extraordinarily dull.    Berman makes several points that can be found elsewhere but provides some unique analysis.  Anti-Americanism has been on the upswing since the collapse of Soviet communism for a couple of reasons.  Europeans have begun to define themselves against the United States as sole world superpower rather than the United States as counterweight to a totalitarian regime.  Also, some European anti-Americanism can be attributed to leftovers of communist propaganda.  Such post-communist attitudes may be the same as they were while the USSR was in power but are viewed in a radically different context.    Like Revel, Berman also demonstrates that anti-Americanism is an ideology rather than a political stance towards specific American policies.  Although anti-Americansim may not exist as powerfully in some countries than in others, in those countries where it is prominent, it takes a similar shape even when the countries involved have very different histories with the U.S. (i.e. France and Germany).  Further, as anti-Americanism existed well before the emergence of the U.S. as a global power, it is difficult to argue that a consistent anti-American stance is the result of opposition to specific policies.  Berman instead attributes this to older prejudices against capitalism and democracy.    One of the better aspects of this book is that Berman examines polling data regarding European attitudes towards the U.S. to discover that, underneath legitimate expressions of support for the U.S., there exists an undercurrent of hostility.  The examination of this data is particularly illuminating.      Also solid is Berman's position that, along with older strains of anti-Americanism, such as the prejudice against capitalism, is a new strain due to Europeans' willingness to surrender aspects of their autonomy and democracy to transnational organizations such as the European Union and the United Nations.  The U.S.' unwillingness to go along produces friction.  Berman makes the exceptionally good point that this willingness to allow bureaucracies to decide policy may make sense for some European countries given their spotty history (Germany being the obvious example) but not for the U.S. with its very different history on the world stage.      The chapter examining anti-Americanism through a comparison of Saddam Hussein to Hitler is the strong point of the book.  Europe has traditionally opted for appeasement in the face of totalitarianism and often expresses hostility towards the U.S. for the simple reason that the U.S. has set a higher moral standard.  In one of the better quotes on the subject, Berman states that the \\"United States has disrupted the blissful ignorance of a world opinion prepared to ignore suffering.  Resentment results.\\"  That single statement captures a great deal of what anti-Americanism is about.    Unfortunately, there are some serious weak points to this book.  Berman spends way too much time on the ideas of a couple of intellectuals, Jean Baudrillard and Arundhati Roy, without spending enough time demonstrating that their ideas actually have some meaningful impact on the shape of European attitudes.  It would have been better to explain how such intellectuals may shape public opinion rather than simply present and analyze their views.    The most serious drawback of this book, however, is that it is as dull and dry as cigarette ash after a long night of hard drinking.  Despite having a graduate degree, there were large sections of this book that I had to read very slowly and very carefully in order to obtain even a modest amount of understanding.  Perhaps I am a bit annoyed as this is the second book I have read recently that would have benefitted if the author had taken a creative writing course (see THE FEMINIST DILEMMA by Diana Furchtgott-Roth and Christine Stolba) with ANTI-AMERICANISM IN EUROPE being an even more extreme case.  Come on people, I realize I am not reading Dashiell Hammett here, but this is ridiculous.  Although I would not tell someone to stay away from this book because of its dullness, I would certainly warn them of it and suggest other source material should be read first.	2005-03-01
US	35922083	R1WMW6W4H1GBWD	0375705090	370416870	Zen in the Art of Archery	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	A Universal Tale	My martial arts instructor has many books that he allows his students to take out.  Some of them he recommends, others he recommends quite strongly.  ZEN IN THE ART OF ARCHERY, however, is the only book which he actually handed out to every member of the advanced class.  Clearly there is something he wants us to know.<br /><br />The book revolves around Herrigel's attempt to understand Zen through the practice of kyudo (Japanese archery).  Although I am no expert in either Zen or kyudo, I think he does a pretty good job.  The concepts that Herrigel communicates to the reader are extremely esoteric and I found them easy to grasp through this slim volume.  However, reading the book solely as a story about one person's search for Zen is to read the book far too narrowly.<br /><br />The concepts that Herrigel addresses are universal concepts.  They are not strictly religious (Zen), martial (kyudo) or even Asian (Japanese).  Any substantial activity, be it learning kyudo, becoming a chess grandmaster or practicing to become a classical pianist, requires one to reach beyond psychological and internal barriers.  This is what should be taken from this book.<br /><br />During Herrigel's study, he focused not on the target, but on himself as the archer.  The struggle was both an internal one, including physical aspects such as breathing properly and relaxing, as well as a refocusing of his mind, such as NOT focusing on the ultimate destination of the arrows he was shooting.  The transcendence was within Herrigel himself.<br /><br />This lesson is applicable to numerous situations across cultures and across activities.  ZEN IN THE ART OF ARCHERY provides a good example of this phenomenon but not the only possible example.  Read more broadly, this book provides anyone undertaking a long and arduous activity a simple framework for reaching beyond those plateaus that we all frustratingly find ourselves on from time to time.  I recommend it on that basis.	2005-02-16
US	35922083	RRSOJ11TKS17S	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Hit and Miss	As most people are probably aware by now, I AM CHARLOTTE SIMMONS revolves around the title character, a poor and unsophisticated girl from the hills of North Carolina, attending her first semester at Dupont University, a fictitious school of Ivy League proportions.  Tom Wolfe has one tough reputation to live up to.  The results are hit and miss.   <br /> <br />Wolfe does an exceptional job of describing the cultural life at such a prestigious school.  Many people unfamiliar not simply with higher education but the highest level of higher education still seem rather naive about how badly such places have degenerated.  For many students, such schools are not \\"places of the mind,\\" but rather are party centers for sex, booze and college sports.  Unlike students at second tier colleges, those at the top tier schools often come from very well-to-do backgrounds and view their attendance at such schools not as privileges but as birthrights.  Wolfe captures that environment and the students' entitlement attitudes very well.  His portrayal of Beverly (Charlotte's snotty rich girl roommate) and various sorority girls of elite backgrounds is spot on. <br /> <br />Despite criticisms to the contrary, I think Wolfe also does a good job of \\"getting into the head\\" of the 18 year old Charlotte Simmons herself.  This is quite a leap for a man of Wolfe's age and one should give credit where credit is due.  While some may believe Charlotte is simply portrayed as too naive to be believable in this age of TV and the internet, I found her to be very believable indeed.  There are in fact many families throughout America that are removed - far removed - from the social mores and attitudes that urbanites assume to be universally known, even if not universally accepted.  In fact, one can actually make the argument that it is not Charlotte Simmons who is naive but rather critics who make such a charge.  They are the ones so far removed from poor whites out in the sticks that they refuse to recognize their actual existence. <br /> <br />There are, however, some serious defects to Wolfe's plot.  Charlotte goes to Dupont with ideals of intellectual challenge and is swept away by her desire for status and social life.  Although this is believable to some degree, Wolfe overplays the hand.  When Charlotte arrives on campus, she is so academically focused and so little interested in climbing the social ladder that her fall from grace is simply too big to be taken seriously.  Perhaps if Charlotte had been academically committed but not aaaaaaaas academically committed as she was portrayed, this would have worked better.  Instead, she falls from one extreme to the other.  No doubt this is done to heighten the drama.  But it does so at the expense of authenticity, all the more difficult to swallow given that it occurrs in one semester. <br /> <br />A similar problem exists after Charlotte commits her moral error that is the centerpiece of the book.  Can I understand a girl becoming depressed after such a serious misjudgment?  Yes.  Can I understand a girl letting her school work slide?  Yes.  But Wolfe's portrayal of Charlotte is so extreme that one would think she had slipped beyond depression and into a flat out psychotic break.  After weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks of depression during which she can barely function, I just wanted to scream \\"Get over it already!\\"  Again, a good plot line is simply taken too far over the line to be effective. <br /> <br />Then there are an assortment of little things that just irritate the reader.  Even given my earlier statement that there are in fact some families in this great country as isolated and non-urbane as Charlotte's, her parents (especially her mother) are portrayed as stereotypically country-bumpkin as possible.  Apparently Wolfe spent so much time researching modern campus life that he never got around to researching Appalachian family life.  Further, Wolfe carries his interest in neuroscience over from his book HOOKING UP into this one but only enough to be annoying, not enough for it to develop into anything meaningful.  Finally, Wolfe's fascination with the male physique is apparently so bottomless that one could mistake this book as being specifically marketed towards the homosexual community. <br /> <br />Tom Wolfe is of course famous for portraying accurate slices of Americana.  He was successful in turning his talents towards the modern swamp of American higher education.  Nonetheless, a book is about more than just the subculture it describes or the texture it creates.  There is still the plot to consider.  Although Wolfe does a solid job here, there are simply too many stretches to say he does a great one.	2005-01-27
US	35922083	R10P7F2U6REN6T	0851706517	404463152	The Birds (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Some Good Politically Incorrect Criticism	I usually stay away from contemporary artistic criticism as literary and film criticism of the past twenty years has simply been ridiculously pretentious.  Interpretations have followed strains of politically correct/leftist thought regarding gender relations, homosexuality, consumerism, and other such drivel while the critics' own arrogance prevent them from recognizing that they have not produced an original thought in years. <br /> <br />The BFI Film Classics series has therefore been refreshing.  Although I have read a few others in the series, it was THE BIRDS that captured my attention.  Hitchcock was an exciting director who was willing to use women's sexuality in ways that has gotten him trashed as a sexist today, The Birds is one of his classics and Camille Paglia is the cultural gadfly whose intellect is matched by her willingness to call things as she sees them without a concern as to what others may think. <br /> <br />Not surprisingly, the result is quite a bit of fun.  Paglia takes us through the film bit by bit adding her own personal wit along the way.  We learn that The Birds was based on a Daphne du Maurier story which itself may have been based on German airstrikes during World War II.  But nature has always been more destructive than man in Paglia's viewpoint and her interpretation of the film is consistent with this view.   <br /> <br />Paglia's strength is in her discussion of Tippi Hedren.  Although never a major actress in the Hitchcock universe, Hedren holds her own in The Birds, which Paglia correctly points out.  Hedren has as much sexual power as any buxom blond in any Hitchcock film.  For anyone familiar with Paglia, it will come as no surprise that her analysis of Hedren exploits that to the max. <br /> <br />It is also worth pointing out that this book is packaged very nicely.  Its color photographs and reproduction of the movie poster on its cover makes THE BIRDS a visual treat as well as a literary one.  A nice job all around.	2005-01-10
US	35922083	R1F5OP5QH0XOH5	0844741299	691424370	The Feminist Dilemma: When Success Is Not Enough	Books	4	9	12	N	N	The Continuing Irrelevancy of Feminism	The premise of THE FEMINIST DILEMMA is fairly simply - as women have gained more and more ground in society, the ideological and political movement of feminism has become more and more irrelevant.  That is the good news.  The bad news is that feminists, being about as odious and dishonest as it is possible to be, refuse to acknowledge this and continue to contort the concept of \\"equality\\" in order to perpetuate their own existence.    There is actually not much new in this book.  Anyone who keeps up on the subject already knows that the economic picture of women painted by feminists is bogus, that girls are not being shortchanged at school and that the legal area of sexual harassment has become a Kafka-esque minefield.  THE FEMINIST DILEMMA is useful, however, by providing more in-depth statistical analyses of these subjects and by demonstrating that many programs specifically meant to benefit women are counterproductive by making business itself more difficult due to over-regulation.      There is one down point to this book.  It is painfully dry.  The two authors, Diana Furchtgott-Roth and Christine Stolba, are a couple of policy wonkettes at the American Enterprise Institute, one of our better think tanks.  Unfortunately, like many eggheads, they are strong on intellect at the expense of excitement.  Come on ladies, you are criticizing feminism!  Your hearts should ring with merriment not only at the benefit you are doing for society by exposing feminist falsehoods but also for the emotional misery you no doubt are causing the feminists themselves.  Let your writing style reflect the glee.	2005-01-10
US	35922083	R33ELFN8K7RGLO	0375726349	301023145	The Human Stain: American Trilogy (3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Has Stayed With Me For Some Time	I read THE HUMAN STAIN some time ago and thought then that it was quite good.  After time, however, I realized that I thought back to this book more frequently than other books that I might originally have thought to be better.  There are aspects of this book that touch a person but do so in such a gentle way that one may not initially realize the impression.    Certainly the book provides a poignant story of political correctness run amok.  As one who spent way too much time in graduate schools, the possibility of a couple of hyper-sensitive students purposefully digging for the most pejorative interpretation of an ambiguous statement certainly rings true.  What rings even more true is the complete lack of backbone of the university administrators and their kangaroo court investigation of the incident.  THE HUMAN STAIN would be worth reading if it were nothing more than a cautionary tale of how badly our universities have degenerated.    But the book is far more than that.  Coleman Silk's story of a light skinned black man passing as white so that race would not interfere with his life and career is simply captivating.  What strikes a reader most is the price to be paid for such a decision.  Silk has to make a total break from his family and has to do so not merely by passively ignoring them but by actively telling his mother of the decision.  This scenario captures something essential about the universal human dilemma of whether to accept who one is and where one came from.    Coleman Silk's relationship with Faunia Farley also represents something essential about the human condition.  People, especially those who have been damaged in some way, often find they need another person to accept them and validate their emotional pain.  If the individuals in such a relationship are quite different from each other, they often do not analyze each other's issues but rather accept the experiences and the person who lived through them.  This relationship is well portrayed inTHE HUMAN STAIN.    I have not read any of Roth's other books and therefore I cannot say how THE HUMAN STAIN compares to his other works.  I can say that the book made a lasting enough impression on me for me to recommend it to others.  Coleman Silk's journey is well worth taking.	2005-01-06
US	35922083	R2Q706CX578TIK	0970312520	493984473	Cloud 8	Books	2	4	7	N	N	One Trick Johnny	CLOUD 8 certainly revolves around an interesting concept.  The main character, James, dies.  Instead of being greeted by St. Peter, Jesus or an angel, he is instead greeted by an Abraham Lincoln look-alike and enters an afterlife unlike any we have seen before.  The hereafter is a mid-sized generic city and James is assigned an apartment and given a job at a large corporation editing a technical manual.    While this alternative vision of an afterlife is certainly unique, there is a pretty significant problem with it.  It is simply a one trick concept that wears thin after about 70 pages in a book four times that long.  Unfortunately, the author does little to make the story more interesting but instead largely glides through based on the uniqueness of his vision of life after death.    This leads to another big problem with the plot.  James' afterlife is similar enough to our own lives that it is not that interesting.  He gets up in the morning, eats breakfast, goes to work at the big company, works as a small cog in the big corporate machine, socializes with co-workers, tries to make meaningful connections with women over lunch dates, hits a bar after work, goes home and goes to bed.  Sounds a lot like my own life and although I do not think of myself as a drab and uninteresting fellow, even I will admit that someone would get bored reading the ins and outs of my daily existence.    The author does throw a few things in to make the afterlife a bit interesting.  Large numbers of residents dress like Abraham Lincoln (for reasons never explained), James' roommate is so vague that it raises some questions about the reality of other residents of this city of the dead, at one point the roommate simply disappears which raises further questions still and there is always free beer in the fridge.  But these differences from the living world exist only around the edges of James' rather uninteresting \\"life.\\"    Even the most interesting quirk of the afterlife, a television set that allows James to watch the lives of his loved ones left behind, is not used to full effect.  For the most part James watches this for some entertainment value.  Although occasionally it is used as a segue for flashbacks to James' life, these flashbacks are rarely used to understand larger issues that one may be pondering in such a limbo.  Only once did the television-of-the-living pull at my heartstrings, near the end of the book when James turns the TV on and discovers that years had passed since his last viewing and that those years were now lost to him.  At no time does James even speculate that this TV might have been placed there to tell him something important about what he is doing at that point of the afterlife.    This lack of insight regarding the possible meaning of the TV is representative of James' ridiculous apparent lack of interest in larger issues regarding his situtation.  At one point he tries to find the parameters of his city and he at times ventures into different neighborhoods.  Yet rarely does he delve into the types of questions with others regarding what their experiences have been in this city or whether they have any insights to share.    This issue is especially pertinent during a corporate meeting where James works.  In an auditorium filled with every employee of the corporation for a discussion on cooperation, pictures from James' life are flashed on the screen and actors play out a scene involving James and his brothers.  If this were you, wouldn't you feel the need to really try to figure out what was being said and why it was important for you to decipher the message, even if you were uncomfortable with having your life splashed before your co-workers?  Yet James leaves the auditorium in agitation and holds only a single, very short and very vague conversation with his supervisor regarding the meeting.  Does this guy need it pounded into his head that maybe he should be a bit more meaningfully aware of clues being provided tohim?    Finally, I should mention that the author is not strong in terms of dialogue.  Although he can create a decent scene, the conversations between characters consist of back and forth blather that in no way reflect how actual people speak, even when they are genuinely struggling for conversation.    I really wanted to like this book.  It was recommended to me by a friend who had recommended two other books, one of which was good, the other of which was exceptional.  Also, the author Grant Bailie lives in my hometown.  Certainly being from Cleveland does not mean that one will be a good writer, but I was looking forward to supporting local talent.  Alas, although CLOUD 8 is not without its moments, I can only say that if this is the afterlife, I can only hope to live a long and healthy life.	2004-12-23
US	35922083	R26T99I4NVHSLS	1566635055	148129111	Life at the Bottom: The Worldview That Makes the Underclass	Books	4	40	41	N	N	Powerful Snapshots of the Underclass	Anyone familiar with the web magazine City Journal has already heard of Theodore Dalrymple.  City Journal is one of the best magazines on the web and probably the single best for issues relating to urban concerns.  Given the high standards of City Journal, it says something that Dalrymple's writing is probably the best on that site.  As a doctor in a British prison and at a hospital in a British slum, he comes into daily contact with members of the underclass and, even more important, with the ideas that guide (or more appropriately, misguide) their lives.    LIFE AT THE BOTTOM is a collection of articles Dalrymple has previously published on the underclass.  Many books that republish articles revolving around a central theme often hang together rather loosely.  Fortunately that is not the case here.  LATB provides a very coherent and very powerful snapshot of the mentality and psychology at play in the slums.  The ideas overtly expressed by Dalrymple's patients are painfully seen by people not of the underclass as far more responsible for keeping people mired in poverty than any economic woes that they may be experiencing.    There are many stengths to this book.  One of the most important is simply that the essays are so incredibly readable.  Dalrymple's essays are very realistic and his subjects vividly portrayed.  This ability to portray those in the underclass so well is particularly important given that many others in society refuse to even recognize that the underclass exists.  One of the more frightening things I have read in Dalrymple's essays (though I must admit I cannot remember if it was in this book or one of his other published pieces) is when he told of a man at a dinner party who asked Dalrymple, in all seriousness, whether the essays he writes are true!    Another strength of this book was noted by Thomas Sowell.  Many factors which keep the underclass in perpetual poverty and turmoil are internal factors such as how one thinks about crime and education rather than external factors such as economics.  As most of the underclass in Britain are white, this book allows us to examine those internal social pathologies without the typical howls of racism for even raising the issue.  (Though on the down side, this may be used to deny the applicability of Dalrymple's observations to Americans.  One friend of mine, a standard leftist whose vision of race has typically been sucked into an ideological vortex, flatly rejected any statement I made about this book because of this.)    Dalrymple unfortunately does not spend much time with the question of what is to be done.  The obvious answer is to look at what is being done wrong and then stop doing it.  There is a significant problem with this, however.  It is true that maladaptive behavior keeping one mired in poverty often seems obvious to those not in the underclass.  Yet such people are not in the underclass specifically BECAUSE it is obvious to them.  It is not obvious to those in the underclass itself.    Because of this, LATB, while very good in its own right, cannot be read in isolation.  Other source material should be read.  One excellent book is THE DREAM AND THE NIGHTMARE by Myron Magnet, which discusses how many of the ideas that have had such a devastating impact on the underclass originated among the rich and elite to distance themselves from the rubes of the middle class.  The rich, however, usually have a social context preventing them from going off the cliff and also have large safety nets for those few who do.  Yet when the same ideas are communicated to the poor, in a further attempt to marginalize middle class morality, the results are far more disastrous, both for the individuals involved and for society as a whole.  This helps us to understand that one powerful way of addressing the problems of the underclass is to focus not simply on the underclass itself (though certainly this must be done) but also on the elites whose ideas have helped create this problem but whose finances have allowed them to live comfortably away from it.     If nothing else, LATB provides an excellent service by instructing us that the underclass does exist and that the problems attendant with it are due more to attitudes and opinions rather than lack of cash.  To Dalrymple's dinner guest, the answer is yes, these stories are unfortunately all too real.	2004-12-10
US	35922083	RQSJY2E92CXFV	0870114638	250672324	Karate-Do: My Way of Life	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Recommended For Any Martial Artist	Although I practice several martial arts, shotokan karate is not one of them.  I nonetheless wanted to read this book as Funakoshi was a master and I thought his writings might have insights useful to any martial artist.  I was not disappointed.    The book is not organized chronologically very well with several decades glossed over.  Funakoshi clearly decided not to focus on the minute details of his life but instead highlighted his life's journey through the martial arts.  Despite the sparse writing, a reader gains a tremendous respect not only for shotokan karate, but even more so for the man who took it upon himself to spread it so broadly.    When one studies several martial arts rather than a single system, one often views things a bit differently.  One issue that I have wondered about is why do some martial arts become international to be practiced worldwide while others, often just as effective in terms of self-defense, remain obscure.  If nothing else, Funakoshi's book provides a few clues to the answer - by a belief in your art, unbendable determination and years of hard, hard work.	2004-12-01
US	35922083	R2TTMBADJ75TL7	0465023290	431315804	Empire: The Rise and Demise of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power	Books	4	3	6	N	N	The British Invasion!!!	The British Empire is one of those subjects about which one could spend a lifetime reading.  For those interested in a good general overview of the Empire to gain a solid understanding of it but who do not want their heads to explode with every small detail, then EMPIRE is a good book to pick. <br /> <br />Niall Ferguson covers all the bases, including how and why the Empire began, how the British sustained such a massive empire over one-quarter of the globe in extremely different cultures, as well as the reasons for the Empire's ultimate decline.  The British were not the first Europeans to try their hands at empire and, for some time, they were not even very successful at it.  Only by studying their more successful competitors did the British assume the predominant global position. <br /> <br />The Empire's influence is traced throughout the world, including North America, Africa, India and Australia.  The economic and military capacities that grew and sustained the Empire are examined, as are the military benefits of the Empire.  As one example, it was interesting to read how the Dutch initially had a far more successful empire than the British even though by any objective measure, i.e. sea power, population, geographic advantage, the British should have had the upper hand.  The solution was in the field of economics.  The Dutch had created financial systems allowing for the growth of an empire whereas the British were hobbled by more rudimentary economic systems.  By emulating Dutch economics, the British were able to pull ahead. <br /> <br />The strength of this book is that Ferguson focuses not merely on the negative or brutal aspects of empire, as is the vogue among so many of the educated elite, but on the positive as well.  It is noteworthy that those countries that are among the most successful and affluent today, such as the U.S., Australia and Canada, have their roots within the British Empire.  This is true even in non-Anglo societies.  Is there any country as poor yet as civilized as India?  Ferguson makes the powerful argument that this can be traced to social institutions imported by the British into other societies, such as the rule of law, free markets, representative assemblies and even the concept of liberty itself.  Although these institutions may have been imperfectly practiced, the seeds were nonetheless imported by the British and were thereafter able to flourish.  For all the imperfections and even nastiness that may be attributable to British rule, it is difficult to imagine any other avenue by which this could have been achieved. <br /> <br />Ferguson also reminds us that the choice facing the world was often not between the British Empire and no empire at all.  Rather the choice was between competing empires, most of which were far, far darker than the British variant and which would have left far less autonomy to their subjects.  This issue came to the fore with the rise of Hitler's Germany when the British presence around the world contributed significantly to the defeat of totalitarianism.  The price paid for this was the weakening of Great Britain itself which set the stage for numerous colonies to gain their independence. <br /> <br />For a book to merely provide a good history often makes it worth reading.  Ferguson has achieved this.  Yet he has achieved more.  He has re-evaluated the British Empire when imperialism is viewed in the West as intrinsically bad in its entirety.  The cold hard fact that many people may not like to hear is that anyone who truly cherishes freedom owes a debt - a very big debt - to British imperialism.  For this, EMPIRE deserves to be read.	2004-11-29
US	35922083	R2340W279AN3PS	0895261359	182282826	Hatred's Kingdom: How Saudi Arabia Supports the New Global Terrorism	Books	4	14	17	N	N	The Fountainhead of Terror	Until the demise of Soviet communism, the U.S unfortunately found it necessary to ally itself with some unsavory countries in order to face larger global issues.  Saudi Arabia, with its strategic location and vast oil fields, is an example of such a country.  After the Soviet Union collapsed, the U.S./Saudi relationship basically ran on inertia due to our need for a stable government in that region.    September 11, 2001 was a wake-up call.  Fifteen of the nineteen hijackers were Saudis.  Furthermore, the terrorist mastermind behind the attack was not only from Saudi Arabia but from one of its most prominent families.  Clearly an American re-examination of the desert kingdom was in order.  Dore Gold has provided the foundation for doing this and is in a good position to do so as a former foreign policy advisor to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations.    Gold provides a solid empirical analysis of Saudi Arabia's support for Islamic terrorism.  The specific sect of Islam which constitutes the state religion of Saudi Arabia is Wahhabism.  This sect is particularly intolerant.  Its adherents hold an extremely narrow view of how Islam is to be interpreted, have utter contempt for anyone whose religious belief differs from their own and are willing to spread Wahhabism through unbelievable violence.      Saudi Arabia has been able to spread Wahhabism, as well as its accompanying violence, through both its oil money and because of its special position within Islam as the birthplace of the religion.  The two holiest cities of the religion, Mecca and Medina, are located within the country thereby giving Saudi Arabia even more influence as to how the religion is to be interpreted.  As a visit to Mecca is required of all Moslems able to make the trip, Saudi Arabia has something better than a captive audience.  It has an audience required by the religion itself to travel to the country where Moslems will be exposed to theextremist message of Wahhabism and thereafter take the seed of extremism back home with them.    There are two areas in which I think this book is particularly strong.  First is that it demonstrates the extremist nature of Wahhabism to such a degree that it is difficult to maintain a position of moral equivalence.  No doubt many readers have heard arguments along the lines of \\"Yes there are extremists within Islam but every religion has extremists.  What about the Christian Coalition?\\"  It is difficult to take such individuals seriously and this book provides ammunition to respond to them appropriately.  Wahhabism is so violent and intolerant that \\"extremism\\" in other religions looks mild by comparison.    Second is the history of Saudi Arabia that Gold provides.  When the Saudi family agreed to support Wahhabism in exchange for the political support of Wahhabis, it created a theocracy unknown to the modern West.  What struck me regarding the relationship between politics and religion in Saudi Arabia was not necessarily how broad or how deep that relationship is but rather how intrinsic it is to the existence of the country.  Politics and religion do not go hand in hand in Saudi Arabia but rather are interwoven into the fabric of the nation.  This needs to be understood.    My only criticism of this book is that Gold has not adequately addressed the possible alternatives to Saudi control of the nation with its accompanying support for Wahhabism.  The Saudi family had a significant rival in the Rashid family.  Would a Rashidi Arabia be any better?  If the Rashidis were not Wahhabis, what were they?  What is their interpretation of Islam, their position on Israel, their take on Shiite Muslims?  Who else besides the Saudis or Rashidis might fill a power vacuum within the country?  Although it might be difficult to imagine something worse than Wahhabism, it does not follow that any alternative would be something to smile about.  More analysis on this would have been helpful.    Almost everyone would now agree that radical Islam is one of the most dangerous forces the international community faces today.  To address the problem, we must understand it.  We also need to understand where it came from and how it continues to survive.  Hatred's Kingdom  is exceptionally helpful for such purposes.	2004-11-01
US	35922083	RNRGJRWKPG4IK	4770018525	552337282	Three Budo Masters: Jigoro Kano (Judo, Gichin Funakoski)	Books	1	13	15	N	N	Simply an Embarrassment	John Stevens has written short biographies of three major figures of modern martial arts:  Jigoro Kano, the founder of judo, Gichin Funakoshi, the father of modern karate and Morihei Ueshiba, the founder of aikido.  As a student of several martial arts, including aikido and judo, I was interested in a book that provided a snapshot of such prominent men.  The profiles of Kano and Funakoshi are not bad and one can learn a bit about their lives from this book.      The section on Ueshiba, however, is simply ridiculous.  Aikido is often viewed as the most spiritual of the martial arts.  Although Kano was active decades before Ueshiba, he brought a rational approach to judo in order to demonstrate that martial arts still had a place in modern Westernized Japan.  Ueshiba, however, infused aikido with more spirituality that has remained with the art to this day.  Unfortunately this spiritual aspect of aikido has allowed for it to be interpreted in some rather bizarre ways by some of its practitioners.  John Stevens, who practices aikido, is clearly one such person.    In the section on Ueshiba we learn that, after having an \\"earth-shattering transformation,\\" Ueshiba could displace boulders and leap unbelievable distances.  Wow!  Just like the Incredible Hulk!  We also learn that Ueshiba had a sixth sense that allowed him to divine the direction of bullets fired by the Chinese army and thereby avoid them!  Gee!  Just like Spider-Man when his 'spider sense' is tingling!  Stevens repeats the story that Ueshiba dared six riflemen to try to shoot him from a distance of 75 feet and that, upon actually being fired upon, he magically appeared behind the shooters themselves without anyone seeing him move.  Ueshiba was so amazing that he did this not just once, but twice (which Stevens compares to a miracle of Jesus).  And, of course, Ueshiba had such power swirling around him that objects would rattle when he entered a room.    This drivel is simply embarrassing to aikido.  Ueshibasaw aikido as a way to spread harmony throughout the world and this type of hocus-pocus interpretation denigrates Ueshiba and the art he created.  Stevens' description sounds like that of a schoolgirl whose heart is aflutter by the sight of the football captain.  The schoolgirl might have teenage hormones to point to for such an over-the-top description.  Stevens does not.    After the various sections on each of the budo masters, Stevens provides a final section comparing the three.  But does anyone really need details?  After all, two of the men, although excellent martial artists, are mere mortals.  The third is a Christ-like demigod.  Could the result of the comparison possibly be in doubt?  Of course not.	2004-10-30
US	35922083	R2BHOGMVOEN00Q	0156011476	518332576	On Parole (Harvest Book)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Very Subtle, Very Powerful	This book follows a man, Kikutani, after he is paroled after sixteen years for murder.  The plot is sparse.  Indeed, the first few chapters deal only with Kikutani's parole, his being taken to a department store to reacquaint him with modern life and his landing a low level job.  Despite the subdued action, I was absolutely captivated.  The author paints Kikutani's inner life so vividly that one can easily place oneself in his position and experience the same feelings of isolation, disorientation and amazement at the changes that have taken place during Kikutani's period of incarceration.    The subtle portrait the author paints is such that we can feel the strength of relationships with minor characters even though they are barely described.  We feel Kikutani's bond with Igarashi, a man paroled at the same time as Kikutani, even though they know each other for only a couple of days.  We also feel the emotional pull of Kikutani's correspondence with Takasaki, who recognizes Kikutani from prison and is fearful of his past being discovered.  We understand Kikutani's loss when that correspondence is abruptly cut off, even though neither Kikutani nor the reader ever meets Takasaki except through the letters he has written.    More than any book I have read, ON PAROLE makes one consider conflicting questions about criminals.  Although I am far from a bleeding heart, even I wondered to what extent are some murderers more sympathetic due to the circumstances surrounding their crimes.  Are others partially responsible if their lies lead to someone else committing a crime when the truth up front might have prevented it?  Are we all capable of a murderous rage given the right circumstances?  If some people are more predisposed to being taken over by an uncontrollable rage, are they more or less responsible for violence they commit?  To what degree does prison provide a degree of comfort by removing choice and temptation, especially for a person who may be predisposed towardsviolence but is ashamed of such tendencies?    ON PAROLE makes one consider these questions by presenting them with a very human and likeable face.  The reader empathizes with Kikutani and that empathy is then used by the author to project the reader into some uncomfortable areas.  Based on this book, I will pick up other books by the same author without hesitation.	2004-10-26
US	35922083	R20ARS731DDYVT	1572331186	675414393	Rac(E)Ing To The Right: Selected Essays George S. Schuyler	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	A Lost Treasure	What a pleasant surprise to find this book.  I have had an interest in black conservatives ever since discovering Thomas Sowell, who was an intellectual life preserver while I was drowning in the muck of political correctness in higher education.  I discovered that George Schuyler was a pre-eminent black conservative and journalist of the early to mid-20th Century and wondered why I had not seen his name more frequently.  I read his novel Black No More and was fortunate to find his out of print autobiography Black and Conservative at a used bookstore in Columbus.  I thought then that someone should put together a collection of his essays and was pleased to find out that this was subsequently done.<br /><br />This collection spans all of Schuyler's career and shows him at various stages of his intellectual and ideological journey.  Although ending up on the right side of the political spectrum, Schuyler took a circuitous route to get there.  The essays in this collection highlight Schuyler's sharp wit and rhetorical flair whether arguing from the left, right or somewhere else of his own making.<br /><br />Schuyler's most well known and controversial essays are included.  These include his attack against the concept of a specifically Black-American art style, his argument against the civil rights acts of the 1960s as interfering with the natural positive progress of race relations, his intense criticisms of Malcolm X and, perhaps most infamously, his equally intense criticisms of Martin Luther King, Jr.<br /><br />As ignorance of history is the foundation for ignorance of the modern day, there is much to gain from reading Schuyler to place the present into proper context.  For instance, it is simply ridiculous to hear Malcolm X being lauded as a \\"civil rights leader.\\"  In fact, Malcolm X was openly hostile towards civil rights and considered true civil rights' leaders to be sellouts.  Although he later changed his tune, it was only after his period of influence was largely over, after he had left the Nation of Islam and after he changed his name from Malcolm X to El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz.  Schuyler does a good job of reminding us that perhaps Malcolm X does not deserve the good will, let alone the warm fuzzies, with which many would remember him.<br /><br />Schuyler also does a good job of demonstrating that pre-1960s America was not a land of relentless racial hostility and that, while certainly a long way from utopia, much progress was being made towards the ideals of equality without the need for governmental interference.  Even with respect to MLK Jr., while Schuyler may not have given King his proper due, Schuyler does make legitimate points regarding King's association with communists and reminds us that many times King's presence at protests had the deleterious effect of promoting rather than deterring violence.<br /><br />My five star rating, however, should not be taken as a wholesale acceptance of Schuyler's positions.  His conservatism often took a rather kooky turn and led him down some extreme paths.  When William F. Buckley started to clean up conservatism to make it a more mainstream movement, numerous ideologues became marginalized and it appears Schuyler was in this group.  Rather, my high rating is a tribute to Schuyler's independent thinking as well as his ability and courage to express controversial and unpopular ideas in a very articulate manner.<br /><br />My rating also should not be extended to the editor of this volume.  Jeffrey B. Leak's introduction does make some good points, such as suggesting that Schuyler's hard ideology and in-your-face manner might have actually slowed the development of black conservatism by making things more difficult for moderate black conservatives.  Also, Leak makes an exceptionally good point that Schuyler's upper New York upbringing may have caused him to underestimate the anger and frustration of Southern blacks.<br /><br />But for every hit Leak makes, there is a miss.Leak speculates that Schuyler repressed a period of incarceration for being AWOL from the military.  Yet I think it is clear that Schuyler never mentioned this incarceration because, unlike the civil rights' protesters with whom he later disagreed, he considered incarceration to be a badge of shame.  There was nothing repressed about it.<br /><br />Perhaps most laughable is a comparison Leak makes between Schuyler and modern black author Shelby Steele.  In a footnote regarding this comparison, Leak questions criticisms of affirmative action by stating that we never hear upper class whites bemoan their inherited wealth.  What is this dude smoking?  One only needs to step a single foot on a modern college campus to encounter white liberals suffering massive palpitations over exactly the financial class into which they were born.  In fact, such white liberals argue that their own white guilt applies not only to themselves but also to me, even when they know my economic upbringing was worlds away from their own.  This alone makes me seriously question Leak's analyses of other issues.  (Though, on a note of fairness, Leak's position is somewhat true in that white liberals never seem willing to give up their own jobs to \\"promote diversity\\" but are more than happy to advocate that I should lose my job instead, usually done with a tone dripping with patronization.  Apparently upper class white liberals feel so bad about their privileged positions that they are willing to discriminate against working class whites to assuage their emotional pain and thereafter point to the racial characteristics of the parties involved to justify their actions to themselves.)  Finally, as a strictly academic matter, it is hard to take an editor seriously when one checks his footnotes only to discover that one of them, footnote 47, is simply missing.<br /><br />Of course, no one is going to read this book for the editing.  One will read it for the writing of George Schuyler.  Agree with him or not, Schuyler will make a person think.  It is a shame, and a statement of our times, that his name is not much better known.ncarceration for being AWOL from the military.  Yet I think it is clear that Schuyler never mentioned this incarceration because, unlike the civil rights' protesters with whom he later disagreed, he considered incarceration to be a badge of shame.  There was nothing repressed about it.      Perhaps most laughable is a comparison Leak makes between Schuyler and modern black author Shelby Steele.  In a footnote regarding this comparison, Leak questions criticisms of affirmative action by stating that we never hear upper class whites bemoan their inherited wealth.  What is this dude smoking?  One only needs to step a single foot on a modern college campus to encounter white liberals suffering massive palpitations over exactly the financial class into which they were born.  In fact, such white liberals argue that their own white guilt applies not only to themselves but also to me, even when they know my economic upbringing was worlds away from their own.  This alone makes me seriously question Leak's analyses of other issues.  (Though, on a note of fairness, Leak's position is somewhat true in that white liberals never seem willing to give up their own jobs to \\"promote diversity\\" but are more than happy to advocate that I should lose my job instead, usually done with a tone dripping with patronization.  Apparently upper class white liberals feel so bad about their privileged positions that they are willing to discriminate against working class whites to assuage their emotional pain and thereafter point to the racial characteristics of the parties involved to justify their actions to themselves.)  Finally, as a strictly academic matter, it is hard to take an editor seriously when one checks his footnotes only to discover that one of them, footnote 47, is simply missing.    Of course, no one is going to read this book for the editing.  One will read it for the writing of George Schuyler.  Agree with him or not, Schuyler will make a person think.  It is a shame, and a statement of our times, that his name is not much better known.	2004-10-04
US	35922083	RILUNFJ7G53K	4770029055	692528243	Out	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Exceptionally Good Picture of the Underside of Japan	I approached this book with reservations.  I had read very good reviews about it but I also read that much of its impact was from the atmosphere it creates and not simply from the plot.  Usually this would not be a concern but as I have read some Japanese novels that were unbelievably esoteric, it raised a red flag.  Also, I heard that there were heavy themes of women's \\"second class\\" status and \\"women's empowerment\\" throughout the book, which are usually code phrases for women who may be in tough spots, but often no worse than many men, and who respond by being as nasty as possible to men and are thereafter applauded for behavior for which a man would be trashed.  I decided to buy the book with a gift certificate figuring I had nothing to lose and that the book would be either very bad or very good.  It was very good.    The book is actually not a mystery but rather a crime novel.  I dislike reviews that reveal significant plot twists, so let me assure any reader that I am not revealing anything noteworthy when I say the murder occurs early, we know it is the wife who did it, we know why and we know her friends on the night shift help dispose of the body.  The mystery is whether they will be caught and how the crime affects the women, all of whom are indeed in tough personal spots.  The murder acts as a catalyst for drawing their individual personal difficulties into the foreground and creating the types of conflict and tension that genuinely makes readers wonder what they would do in such situations.    Kirino does an excellent job of developing the plot.  Loose ends are not only resolved but often the reader does not know something is a loose end until it arises a second time at the worst possible moment to push a character even further into a corner.  The characters are well drawn and the reader can relate to them easily.  Though, on one of the few drawbacks of the book, the actual language employed by the author is often a bit too clinical for a book of this type.  Such language, almost technical in nature, is not so overpowering as to detract from the plot, the characters or the gloomy atmosphere created, but it was noticeable, especially in a novel with so many strengths going for it.    I find it difficult to say which was most powerful - the solid plot, the strong character development or the dark atmosphere about a side of Japan not seen in the travel brochures.  What I can say is that the combination made for an excellent book that is well worth recommending.	2004-09-20
US	35922083	R3QML6V5NUYB9C	0374528667	853021791	Crescent and Star: Turkey Between Two Worlds	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good Read About an Important Country	Turkey will go down as one of the most important countries of the 21st Century as it is both the most successful example of a secular country with an Islamic majority population and because its location makes it a bridge between Europe and the Middle East.  Kinzer provides a good snapshot of Turkey and obviously has great respect and affection for the country.  This usually translates into a good book, though one that falls into a personal narrative or interpretation a bit too frequently.    The book is a solid introduction to modern Turkey and how the father of the country, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, dragged it kicking and screaming into modern times and towards a Western orientation.  Kinzer also provides the reader a good introductory picture of how secularism is lived and enforced in the present day.    The accounts of Turkey's socio-political issues are also quite good.  The reader is left with an understanding of both internal issues, such as Turkey's stance towards Armenians and Kurds, as well as external issues, such as Turkey's relationship with its archrival Greece.    The least persuasive aspect of the book is Kinzer's take on the military's role in the enforcement of the country's secularism.  Contrary to popular belief, such enforcement is not meddling with politics, but is instead the constitutional role of the military.  Certainly this goes against the grain of most secular societies' civilian control over the military.  However, as Turkey is hands down the most successful secular country with a Muslim majority, one should be very hesitant to tinker with it.  After all, if it's not broken, don't fix it.    Despite this, Kinzer argues that the military should loosen its enforcement of secularism to allow more democracy to flourish.  Certainly a nice concept, but there is too little discussion of the unfortunate currents of fundamentalist Islam that exist within the country and which just might knock secularism off its perch.  Kinzer was the Istanbul bureauchief for the New York Times and, while this certainly makes him qualified to write on Turkey, it also opens him up to a criticism that could be made of many Times reporters, specifically that they assume the masses have the same values as the educated journalistic elite (or can be \\"enlightened\\" to adopt those views).  This is a mistake journalists make time and again in the U.S. and I had the strong feeling reading this book that the same mistake was being made but towards a different society, in this case Turkey.    Perhaps it would be better for the military to loosen its grip, as Kinzer suggests.  The problem I am focusing on in this review is that Kinzer has not made a solid enough argument for it.  Instead he suggests a rather radical adjustment to the Turkish system with an analysis that left me, not necessarily in disagreement, but instead unconvinced.  His position is simply conclusive in nature without the necessary support to prop it up.    Obviously an author is allowed to throw his take into the mix.  Despite some questions over his policy suggestions, however, I recommend this book to gain a good understanding of an important player on the world stage.	2004-09-10
US	35922083	R3KA3F1QEW6J29	0312326998	764840640	The Trouble with Islam: A Muslim's Call for Reform in Her Faith	Books	3	45	50	N	N	Important Topic Needs Heavier Treatment	I have mixed feelings about this book.  Few issues are as important as addressing the problems of radical Islam and promoting a more moderate version of that faith.  Manji is in a good position to do this as she is a noted TV personality in Canada and therefore has access to a wide audience.    There is a lot going for this book.  Manji is on strong ground when comparing her own experiences with Muslims and non-Muslims, such as the openness that she experienced at a Baptist Church where she was baby-sat compared to the closed structure of the Islamic school to which she was transferred.  Another good example is describing the different treatment she received from Jews and Muslims in Israel.    Manji also presents a good argument that the Koran is open to a non-literal interpretation.  This is harder in Islam than in Christianity as the Koran is allegedly the direct recitation of Allah while the Christian Bible is \\"divinely inspired.\\"  A tip from my college religion professor is useful.  He stated that the Koran is not the equivalent of the Christian Bible because in Christianity it is through Christ, not the Bible per se, that one may reach salvation.  In Islam, it is through the Koran that one may reach salvation.  Therefore, the proper comparison is that the Koran is to Islam what Jesus is to Christianity.  One can now see that a non-literal interpretation of the Koran is more difficult in Islam than a comparable Christian interpretation of the Bible and Manji deserves credit for making the case.    Finally, Manji does a good, though incomplete, job of describing the history of independent thought within Islam, called ijtihad.  A general description of early Islamic societies open to such thought is provided.    The main problem with the book however, is that it seems too lightweight for the subject matter.  This is not to say I would have preferred an academic to have written the book.  I believe that many ideas that remain in the realm of intellectuals will havelittle impact unless they are transmitted to the masses.  Therefore, people such as reporters and radio announcers play an important role.  Manji is indeed such a person, again being a TV personality.  Yet even given this standard, she is toooo breezy, toooo conversational.  I have read her editorials in newspapers and think she expresses her ideas far better in such a format.  A book deserves weightier treatment (though not necessarily heavy treatment) even for a non-academic book directed towards the general public.      After doing a good job of describing problems within Islam, Manji seems like little more than a cheerleader on how to address these issues and promote moderate Islam.  We need more ijtihad, Rah Rah Rah.  We need more freedom for women, Rah Rah Rah.  If one had read only those sections in which Manji makes suggestions for promoting moderate Islam, one would have little sense of just how deeply embedded into Islamic culture such maladaptive traits really are.  Indeed, even her discussion of earlier Islamic societies' co-existence with other religions only touches the surface as to the oppression inflicted upon adherents of non-Islamic religions by their Muslim overlords.    Manji also seems a bit naive about the \\"support\\" Islam may be receiving in Western societies.  For example, she applauds the University of North Carolina's requirement a few years back of requiring its students to read a book about the Koran and accepts uncritically an assertion that the assignment was made to acquaint students with other cultures.  Yet there are strong arguments that the assignment is better understood as being part of a pattern of anti-Western thought permeating modern academia, including UNC.  Manji does nothing to address this possibility.    Overall I recommend this book.  My three star rating is actually quite mixed and a recognition of both the strong and weak points of this book will allow a reader to take away a good deal while sifting out the rest.	2004-09-07
US	35922083	R3PL8W4O6VGO0F	0826452450	531720104	Bret Easton Ellis's American Psycho: A Reader's Guide (Continuum Contemporaries)	Books	2	39	43	N	Y	Ellis Deserves Better	American Psycho is one of the few books I have read more than once.  I realized upon initially reading it that there was much going on beneath the surface that I was probably missing due not only to the extreme violence but also to the relentless focus on the superficial details that the main character, Patrick Bateman, describes.  An excellent essay by Elizabeth Young in the book Shopping in Space allowed me to better appreciate the book the second time around.  I was therefore excited when I saw the instant reader's guide by Murphet.  Unfortunately, it was a letdown. <br /> <br />There are a couple of bright spots.  Murphet does a fair job (but no better) of placing the book into the historical and social context in which Bateman existed.  Murphet also does a good job of demonstrating that many events that are described in the book are probably occurring only within Bateman's head.  Particularly noteworthy is pointing out that the real estate agent at Paul Owens' apartment, after Bateman allegedly killed him, was named Mrs. Wolfe.  This is a reference to Tom Wolfe, the author of the realistic novel Bonfire of the Vanities, and provides a clue that that particular episode is \\"real.\\"  Combined with other clues, this calls into question the accuracy of Bateman's description of the murder itself. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, this reader's guide usually disappoints.  As an initial matter, it is written in the pretentious language all too typical of literary criticism from people trying to show how smart they are.  Such high-falutin' language does not impress me and others should not hesitate to say that the emperor has no clothes. <br /> <br />Murphet also strikes out frequently, as when a minor character mistakes Bateman for someone else and proceeds to describe Bateman in unflattering terms.  Murphet believes this is noteworthy as it is inconsistent with the perception the reader has formed of Bateman.  This is incorrect.  Even a casual reader will recognize well before this episode that Bateman's inner view of himself is not matched by others' objective view of him.  Check out what a fool Bateman makes of himself at McDonalds immediately after his attack on the homeless guy Al. <br /> <br />Murphet does little better when analyzing social critics of the novel.  Bateman attacks both men and women in the novel, which Murphet acknowledges.  Yet in discussing allegations of anti-woman sexism, Murphet focuses on whether this is attributable to the character Bateman or the author Ellis.  How could anyone miss a softball like this?  The better analysis is that the novel's violence may not be anti-woman, but critiques along such lines speak volumes about the callousness of such critics towards men.  Further, Murphet's discussion questions regarding consumerism would be laughable if one could keep one's eyes from rolling at, again, the pretentiousness. <br /> <br />Ellis has written an important book skewering a noteable segment of our society.  I have given the current reader's guide two stars, rather than only one, because of the paucity of literary criticisms of the novel and because a fan may get something out of it (though I would recommend Elizabeth Young's aforementioned essay over this).  American Psycho deserves intelligent analysis.  It deserves better than this.	2004-08-24
US	35922083	R2Y53IBYNFMQFZ	0385336934	954438677	Man Out of Time	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not Bad For a First Attempt	This book is the first by the author and it is pretty good.  The fate which befalls the main character is painful to read for anyone who has ever encountered a vindictive jerk at work.  Most people will be able to relate to the plot on that basis and therefore will be able to enjoy the book.  However, the characters are not as solidly portrayed as I would have liked and the subplots are stretched a bit thin here and there.  Nonetheless, if you are looking for a quick read that is a bit more than light entertainment but not too heavy either, then you could do worse than this.	2004-08-16
US	35922083	R24ROAR2DAY4A1	0060510242	757802694	Bobby Fischer Goes to War: How the Soviets Lost the Most Extraordinary Chess Match of All Time	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Reads Like a Cold War Thriller	I am not what you would call a chess enthusiast. Although I can play the game, I do not do so often. What I do enjoy, however, are good tales about the Cold War. It was on that basis that I purchased this book. It is also on that basis that the book succeeds very, very well.         There are three themes that I thought were well illuminated by this book. First was Bobby Fischer's behavior. Of course I had heard that he was eccentric and difficult, but never did I imagine just how bizarre he really could be. His unbelievable micromanagement of every aspect of a tournament, his antisocial behavior, his forfeiting of a game in the world championship, all these are brought to life in a way that provides the reader a real taste for the character of the man that was wonderful, if frustrating, to read.         Second, the book did an excellent job of detailing exactly how beneficial Fischer, and the Fischer/Spassky match, was to chess overall. Bizarre behavior or not, Fischer took chess from a poor man's game to one in which top players could demand top dollar. This was far more interesting than most people would probably imagine and more interesting than I can convey with a simple review.         Third, and most fascinating, was the description of the Cold War chess match that was being played by the US and USSR on the world stage over the Fischer/Spassky match itself. Think about it - the Soviets not only dominated chess but explicitly stated that their chess superiority was evidence of the superiority of their socialist system. Then, not only are the Soviets knocked off their perch, they are utterly demolished. Even worse (from the Soviet perspective), the person doing the demolishing is not only an American, but one who is extremely arrogant, openly states that he will crush anyone the Soviets put up against him, and whose behavior is so odd and obnoxious that he would have been thrown in the Gulag if the nationalities were reversed. You could almost feel the Sovietssquirm!         I must admit that I did feel bad for poor Boris Spassky, a good man representing a bad system which used him for propaganda purposes. Alas, such is history, and this book serves a very delicious slice of it.	2004-07-21
US	35922083	R1UJRNDPYX6UCH	0872864022	506962594	The Prone Gunman (City Lights Noir)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Top Notch Noir	I had previously read Manchette's other translated book, Three to Kill, and gave it a four star review.  As The Prone Gunman is even better still, it warrants the full five stars.  This is what noir is all about - a lean plot and lots of action.  Indeed, I started reading the book one night, lost track of the body count, was amazed at the thrills and was shocked to discover I was only on page 48.<br />The plot revolves around a hired killer who is looking to retire and hook back up with the girl he had left behind some years before.  Of course, nothing goes as planned.  The family of a prior hit is after him, his bosses do not want him to retire and our &quot;hero&quot; himself is simply emotionally unprepared for a normal existence.  Added to this is that the characters with whom he interacts are all morally vacuous.  A reader will not find any sentimentality in this book.  He will, however, find a lot of excitement.	2004-07-17
US	35922083	R3TXHFIEBG50YC	4770017995	238345277	Kodokan Judo: The Essential Guide to Judo by Its Founder Jigoro Kano	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	The Building Block for Understanding Judo	I could write a lengthy thesis about why this book remains a classic, but I won't.  Instead, I will leave it at this - when I am a bit unsure as to how to do a particular technique and my sensei is not available, this is ALWAYS the first book to which I turn.  Other books may provide further analysis, but it is this book which is the cornerstone of understanding judo.  What more can I say?	2004-06-23
US	35922083	R9RTG9MSQMNBR	1893554856	45375245	Anti Americanism	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	A Breath of Fresh Air	Revel has written a fairly tight treatise on the phenomenon of anti-Americanism in Europe generally and in France specifically.  I have long noticed the European tendency to take any fact pattern involving the U.S., even those diametrically opposed, and reach the pre-ordained conclusion that it is America's fault.  (This pattern is also seen in American Leftists who consistently point to Europe as blazing the path for America to follow and who often feel no need to justify such a position - the fact that Europeans take a certain position different from Americans is, in and of itself, sufficient in their minds to follow Europe's more &quot;sophisticated&quot; lead.)<br />Revel provides enough examples of such European flip-flopping regarding its stance towards U.S. policy that one must reasonably conclude that they are not merely isolated incidents, but manifestations of larger problems within European governments that are being sidestepped with critiques of America.  Revel does indeed make such a position explicit and usefully explains and analyzes how anti-Americanism is often used as a way for Europeans to avoid taking a hard look at themselves.  As Revel himself acknowledges, it is in Europe, not America, that totalitarian ideologies arise and often take hold.<br />The book is not without imperfections.  The author's style is often just a touch hard to follow, which may be due to the book being a translation.  Further, more attention might have been paid to the actual consequences of consistently taking an anti-American stance.  Revel does recognize that Americans may simply ignore Europeans after being bombarded with anti-Americanism and that this may deprive Europeans the opportunity to make legitimate points.  However, he might also have included the personal antipathy that many Americans are already feeling towards Europeans and provided concrete examples of how this might affect policy, especially that which relates directly to Europe.  Overall however, a good book that is worth reading.od book that is worth reading.	2004-06-22
US	35922083	R249NIB0VFBCR0	4770027311	150541706	Bushido: The Soul of Japan (The Way of the Warrior Series)	Books	4	8	11	N	Y	Good Primer on the Subject	Nitobe has written a good and useful primer on the subject of bushido, presenting both a history and explanations into easily digestible small chapters.  Although I was already familiar with some aspects of bushido of which he wrote, it is nonetheless useful to have a handy guide in which things are laid out systematically.  I might suggest that this is a good guide for martial artists to help understand the culture behind their arts.	2003-12-02
US	35922083	R3H387XQINTB0W	0872863956	598983888	Three To Kill	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Good New Discovery	Only two Manchette books have been translated into English and this is the first one I read.  The book is tightly written and exciting, which, of course, is why one would read a crime noir book in the first place.  The lean plot provides enough to explain the episodic spurts of violence contained within, but is not so detailed as to turn the book into a traditional mystery.  My complaints, which prevent a five star rating, are that the main character takes a hiatus away from the action which I found a bit unrealistic (I don't want to provide more details and spoil anything) and the ending was a bit more loose and unresolved than the rest of the book.  Nonetheless, I look forward to reading Manchette's other translated book, The Prone Gunman, and hope other translations will follow.	2003-12-01
