US	35939288	R18XXJVIZMO0HX	014028088X	336784816	The Salon.com Reader's Guide to Contemporary Authors	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Informative and delightful to read	Despite its 455 pages, this book is a fairly quick read. It is a book about contemporary literature, although not at all boring as book reviews sometimes tend to be. Reading this book is fun, in part, I think, because it is written for readers, not for other critics. The reviewers do not err on the safe side always, which make it so much more interesting.<br />The book is ordered alphabetically, and contains information not only about the books, but also some information about the authors. In order to be user-friendly, the &quot;best&quot; book by each author is marked by an asterisk. I admire this because naturally, everyone will not agree which is the best book, but as the subtitle says: this is &quot;an opinionated, irreverant look at the most fascinating writers of our time&quot;. This is just one of the cool features of the book: another one is a section after each author called &quot;see also&quot;, where the reader gets recommendations according to the system if you like this author, you might want to try these. <br />There are a few general essays on such topics as science fiction, often written by one of the included authors. I would have liked more of those. There are also lists of book suggestions with interesting titles (sometimes more interesting than the recommended books sound), and those can be browsed like a good magazine. I would have liked more of those, too. <br />This is not a book which will expand your knowledge of literary theories, but people who have studied literature are likely to enjoy this book anyway. I am one of those:) It does not assume that the reader has studied literature and knows lots of terms, concept and are aware of the current discussions; instead, this is a tribute to literature as phenomenon. And a phenomenon that can and sometimes should be experienced intuitively.	2003-05-27
US	35939288	R3AFWOX3LCXVBM	0312420641	629736189	Afterimage: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Beautiful and reflecting	This novel has not much of a plot, but that does not really matter; rather, it can actually be seen as a strength. Annie Phelan is hired as a new maid by a somewhat strange couple: Isabelle, photographer and Eldon, writer. Isabelle is struggling against people's prejudices (the novel is set in Victorian England and it shows): she is a woman, she does not have any children and she does not care much for class distinctions. On top of the above, she is a photographer, and a talented one. However, when she gets some success, she realizes, finally, that it does not matter, she is still her father's daughter and that is all. Her husband, Eldon, is very supportive of her art, although distant in other matters. They have had three children together, none of which lived. Eldon dreams about exploring the world, but his health makes that impossible, so he reads and writes instead. Both Isabelle and Eldon are infatuated by Annie. Isabelle uses her as a model, and Eldon talks with her about books. <br />I consider this to be a very beautiful novel. Reading it increases your understanding of human beings. This is not a very dramatic story, but there is much to think about. I cannot get this novel out of my head.	2003-01-01
US	35939288	R257QRAVZFZ67A	1402200080	516364952	Bargain Beauty Secrets: Tips and Tricks for Looking Great and Feeling Fabulous	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A compilation of beauty tips that do not cost much	This is a good compilation of beauty tips. The tips are organized in different chapters, such as diet, excercise, hands, feet and so on. However, this is not a basic beauty book. If you are looking for the whole picture, look elsewhere. That said, some of these tips are really good. There are several do-it-yourself beauty treatments. Diane Irons also gives tips on how to proceed: this is a collection of beauty tips, but some principles are outlined as well. Try to be creative. Simplify. Do not accept meaningless statements such as it cannot be done on a such and such budget. As a matter of fact, Diane Irons succeeds to show that it can indeed be done. Being beautiful and well-groomed does not need to cost that much. Maybe you wish to save in some areas and splurge on others. You do not have to do it all. This is a collection of inspiring ideas that you can pick and choose from. The beauty of it is that you have a choice: where to spend and where to save.	2002-12-08
US	35939288	RJ58G1MSWYP50	1570717737	713775186	Diane Irons' 14-Day Beauty Boot Camp: The Crash Course for Looking and Feeling Great w/ one Audio CD	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good, but not her best!	I really like Diane Irons' books. However, this is not her best book. It does have some good parts: the CD is very motivational, and her ideas are also good. The main problem with this book is that there is too little content. There is nothing wrong with what she writes, but the book should have included more hands-on tips. The principles are interesting but some can be found elsewhere, such as decluttering, focusing and journaling. This is not necessarily something problematic, but as I have said above, there is not much content overall. Many pages consist of empty diary pages. I think this will work best for someone young or very inexperienced in the beauty field, because whereas the basics are covered, the rest is not! I think it can also be used, as she says on the CD, as a check-up on yourself. If you are well-read or informed about beauty basics, this book will probably not have anything to offer you.	2002-11-26
US	35939288	RX1B2RV5AD2UC	0879517697	934807951	The Beauty Bible	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Beautiful but not really a beauty bible	This is a very beautiful book. If you like to look at beautiful pictures, you will definitely like it. The paper quality is very high, so the book is quite heavy, although it is only 256 pages long. However, when browsing through the book, the extra quality of the paper really matters. It is glossy just as a glossy magazine, but the content is much better ...<br />As for content, I think that the quality varies. The first chapters about make-up and skincare are very good. These chapters make up almost half the book. They cover the basics and more, such as bridal make-up and make-up for interviews, and the photographs and step-by-step instructions are both inspirational and very useful. There are actually many things I have read there that I have not read elsewhere, and I have read many beauty books:)<br />However, the remaining chapters are not as good, in my opinion. This does not mean that this is not a good beauty book. I highly recommend it. But, some areas are not covered at all, some areas are almost glossed over and some areas I wish they would have left out altogether. There is one chapter about hair, which is rather good considering the information that is in it. I do think there are bits and pieces missing, though, such as information about different styling products, different combs&amp;brushes and other tools, how to use them etc., and about how to actually style your hair. The next chapter is about plastic surgery, which I admit I do have a problem with, and I do not think that it really belongs in a book about beauty. Anyway, if you do consider plastic surgery, you will need much more information than is covered in this book on 11 pages.<br />Another chapter covers the body, and includes some thoughts about the body and mind, which I like, but since it is in there, I would like to have seen more of it. This chapter also includes some very helpful remarks about exercise (what you need, and how you get it). There is a morning stretch routine that I havetried and really like. There is one chapter about fragrance, which is nice, but too short.<br />Fashion and style is not covered at all, and I do think there should have been at least one chapter about fashion since the books is called &quot;The beauty bible&quot;. <br />The book has a good index, which I find very important, since it makes it easier for you to find the exact information you are looking for.<br />The product recommendations I see as problematic. Whether or not they are still available, many more products have been developed and old ones have been upgraded. If you are looking for the best products, this information is likely to be somewhat old, although I have no reason to doubt that the recommended products are very good.<br />All in all, this is a book that I do not regret that I have bought, I do refer to it occasionally, I like many parts of it, but it is not flawless, and I do not think that this is the only beauty book a girl needs:)	2002-11-20
US	35939288	R1R0PI56617OGV	0894801996	721426604	Chocolate: The Consuming Passion	Books	5	9	9	N	N	For chocolate lovers of all ages	This is a lovely book! Beautiful and funny illustrations, delicious recipes, interesting facts ... &quot;Chocolate The Consuming Passion&quot; covers basically everything any chocolate lover would want to know. It includes chocolate profiles, information about different kinds of chocolate, chocolate myths and funny observations. One example is this: &quot;The greatest tragedies were written by the Greeks and by Shakespeare. Neither knew chocolate.&quot; Of course, there is no causality, but still!<br />Although this book is written for children, any chocolate lover will adore it, regardless of age. Actually, one does never really grow out of picture books, at least not the good ones.<br />The first time I saw this book was in the window of the best chocolate store in my town, The Belgian House of Chocolate. I knew I must get it! I have not been disappointed.	2002-11-15
US	35939288	R29PE4ZWIM4J4T	0446675776	241654709	Kiss My Tiara: How to Rule the World as a SmartMouth Goddess	Books	5	8	8	N	N	More than a fun read (although it is hilarious!)	This is a book all women should read. I know, it has been said before about many books, but this is a very important book. Susan Jane Gilman has a way of writing that made me laugh out loud. Yet, this is a serious book, too. It is about the rights for women to be exactly what they want to be. It is about how hard it still is to be a woman. However, Susan Jane Gilman does not whine. At all. Instead, she offers support, a good laugh and actually good solutions. This is not a book that makes women victims, rather heroines.<br />Kiss my tiara actually penetrates our society of today and has a surprisingly interesting, clever and clear view about many issues otherwise described only either in thesises or women's magazines. What is love? How can we be happy? Why are looks so important? This book offers useful ammunition for all women. By following her advice, and applying her ways of thinking, we can all become strong women, goddesses, heroines ...<br />Susan Jane Gilman uses wit, intelligence and common sense to make us see another picture of our society, and how it could be. It is thought-provoking reading. Also, she shows us how to get the most out of what we already know and can do, by simply adopting these techniques and skills to other areas of life. And no, as she says: \\"We Don't Shape History by Shaping Our Thighs\\".	2002-11-15
US	35939288	R3SAJ46PHLSEN9	0807125547	678417912	Casanova Was A Book Lover: And Other Naked Truths and Provocative Curiosities about the Writing, Selling, and Reading of Books	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Incredibly interesting!	Hamilton has written a most interesting report from behind the scenes of publishing. Any bibliophile should read this book. Not only does it have thorough chapters about the economics of books and its impact on literature, but many tidbits and lots of book trivia that is not so well-known. Hamilton shows that although he can be very witty when he wishes to, he is still very skilful with words and can reason in depth about the subjects in question. Some information is pure entertainment, other information is thought-provoking, and all is interesting. This is a book that is hard to put down - you want to know more and more and more. I wish there was a sequel available!<br />Hamilton has a distanced and ironic attitude - he is not fooled by marketing people or any others. I think he has a very healthy perspective. Books are not holy, and Hamilton has indeed analyzed this business like any other. <br />If possible, I would have given an extra star for the index. The index has many entries and is practically indespensible, since you will always want to come back to some parts. Also, I consider a good index necessary for reader-friendliness. I also liked the bibliography in the end - many suggestions for further reading ...	2002-10-13
US	35939288	R1F3AKZ1XA54T8	0517193604	564111200	Criminals	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Insights about the human mind	Livesey manages to make her readers question themselves; there is more than one ethical dilemma in this book. A baby is found, and taken care of by Ewan who has the best intentions. Only, his sister Mollie who is somewhat mentally imbalanced gets emotionally attached to the baby and manages through different logistical means to delay the report of the found baby to the police. Ewan has some problems of his own, too; he was a little bit careless about information that he revealed to somebody. There is a fine line between what you can and cannot do. Circumstances can arise that you had not (previously) thought of.<br />Somehow, it is apparent, the margins must be on your side. Anybody can become a criminal. Anybody can also become a victim. The point is that it takes only so little of a false step to make your life altogether different from what it was. Human beings constantly interact, and it is impossible to foresee all implications of your actions. <br />Livesey writes in a very interesting genre. This is a psychological thriller, but the focus is neither on the plot, nor on the solution. This is not a novel about being good or bad; it is a novel about understanding of the human mind. We are all human beings, and thus, we make mistakes. Sometimes we have to pay dearly for them. Sometimes somebody else has to pay dearly for them.  This novel shows the need for understanding and forgiveness.<br />Livesey writes in a way that is not condemning, more exploring. What would happen if situation X arised? I, as a reader, was very much intrigued by the result. She also uses traditional literary techniques such as writing pieces of another book within this novel. The result is well worth penetrating.	2002-10-13
US	35939288	R3P8X4IQYQETRV	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Insider scoop everybody should read	This book is very important. It has a political message as well as a personal one. I think that it is very admirable of Ehrenreich to actually go out there and see what it is like to be poor. Not so glamorous. Ehrenreich describes the constant hassel required to obtain the very basics of life: somewhere to sleep, something to eat and some way of getting to work. This turns out to be a constant struggle; yet, for many of us, these are aspects of life we generally take for granted. I shuddered when I read about the quality of food that Ehrenreich ate - due to restraints not only of money, but time, cooking equipment and so on. This is one of the strengths of the book: the attention to detail. It feels more real when you have had a real experience, and Ehrenreich faithfully takes notes about what she has done during the day, what she has eaten and so on.<br />Ehrenreich attempts to analyze not only what it is like to be poor, but also how it affects you as a human being, her being the primary example. This is not a thorough analysis though; that would have required more time and also more literature on the subject, I believe. Instead, the focus on this book is more of an eye-witness' story ... she was there, she saw this; in fact, she experienced this. This must be seen as one person's story, with all the limitations and advantages that brings.<br />This is a book that is very hard to put away - I only did that for sleep and work. The stories of the people Ehrenreich encounters are very touching, and I cannot help but wondering what happened to them.<br />The book contains insights, some very scary, about what it is like to live in the USA that I had no clue about. This is not another No logo; it describes what is going on inside the USA. It is a story about people who do not go to college or read the newspaper, and whereas they are human beings just like everybody else, they do not enjoy the privileges just like everybody else. <br />Reading Nickel and Dimed is in a way to read a book about another place, another life. It is not exotic travel stories, and not sci-fi stories: yet, the places described seem at once familiar and very strange. I wonder why.	2002-10-09
US	35939288	R1298MTDPV9R0A	0064400964	922849138	Betsy-Tacy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Charming!!!	Somebody said: It is never too late to have a happy childhood. Well, reading Betsy-Tacy will give anyone a good idea about what a nice childhood is about. This is the first book in a series of books about Betsy. The reader follows her from age five, as she is in this book. It is absolutely delightful! Betsy's life changes much to the better as a new girl her age, Tacy, becomes her neighbour and her best friend. Together, they play and explore the world around them. Reading this book is so enjoyable ... it leaves the reader with a nice feeling of satisfaction.	2002-10-01
US	35939288	R336L5UJW6T1EN	0140132643	237313036	Boobs, Boys and High Heels	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Attitude-boosting	This is a very fun read for all women. It contains everything you need to know to be a total babe, or as Dianne Brill puts it, a member of the Brill Babe Brigade. This is a guide for flirting with GG:s (great guys), dating them, being the best you can be and so on. Her motto is that all women are babes; they only need to realize it. Beauty moves beyond the stereotypes: feel sexy, and you will be. As a matter of fact, you already are! Brill explores the universe of having fun, which almost always includes a few games. Flirting is not work with Brill; it is a commitment and it most certainly is fun! And pleasurable! For everyone!	2002-09-29
US	35939288	R24UUDFWPTZI2X	0670831263	517415572	The Penguin Book of Twentieth-Century Speeches	Books	4	11	11	N	N	One picture of history, not the only one	This is a compilation of some very important speeches from the twentieth century, and some not so important ones. The author has chosen speeches mainly from the Western world, especially the United States and Great Britain. Most of the orators are men (need that be pointed out?:)) Naturally, this has the consequence that the result is a very incomplete picture. Bearing that in mind, however, there are some really good speeches here, and some very interesting. Reading this book is like reading a book on recent history. <br />Since these texts are authentic speeches, you actually get the feeling of being THERE. Reading some speeches really gave me an idea of how it made the listeners feel ... and sometimes, that was a rather creepy feeling. There are some really thought-provoking speeches in this book, such as one of my favourites: what will happen when we start use planes to bomb entire cities? The speech is called \\"The bomber will always get through\\" and the orator was Stanley Baldwin. Most of us are so young that we do not remember  a world where wars were fought differently; when that option did not exist. <br />Each speech has a short introduction where the orator is placed in his or her context, and often, at the end, a few lines about what happened next. The speeches are chronologically arranged, not thematically. Whereas these introductions are of a high quality, they are not sufficient for a reader who is not rather well acquainted with the history of the Western world of the 20th century. If that is the case, I would recommend to read a general introduction first. <br />This book focuses clearly on political speeches, although there are exceptions. Students of political science will undoubtedly find it useful as a general companion book, but it is interesting for anyone who is interested in the recent political development. These speeches are not the only factors that have influenced that development, but orators often pick up current trends and issues, evenbefore television. <br />I recommend this book with the caution that it does not give a full picture, it does not even aim to give a full picture and reading this book solely would give anyone a very strange idea about the history of the 20th century in the Western world. Read it with other books, and do not take this as THE truth ... it is a good and interesting read, provided you have a good portion of healthy criticism.	2002-09-24
US	35939288	R2ILBJ6Z3QL64R	0451409000	931515590	Messiah	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Thriller with an unexpected twist	I read this book during two rainy summer nights ... and I liked it a lot. The author investigates the minds of one serial killer, and one detective. There are other characters too, of course, but these two characters are the ones really worth studying. Red Metcalfe at Scotland Yard is hunting a very skilfull serial killer, who does not leave any traces behind. It seems hopeless, but he and his team eventually manages (with a little help from the killer himself) to figure out the pattern. The problem is only that now that they know, they feel even more helpless. More people may be killed anyway. <br />Starling lets us follow the thoughts of both Red Metcalfe and the serial killer ... which is both very interesting and thought-provoking. I would say that this is a very well made study of man's mind in general - only most of us are neither serial killers nor detectives. Still, Starling has much to teach us about the darker side of humanity, the side that most of us successfully suppress. Aside from the psychological part, this book is a real page turner and actually a very quick read although it is almost 500 pages long. It is very hard not to read just another chapter ...<br />The end actually surprised me, and I am not easily surprised. I have read lots of detective stories (although this is more of a thriller than a detective story) and it is seldom one gets really surprised. I have never seen an end constructed like this one, and I would say that it is as inventive as the end of The Murder of Roger Ackroyd.	2002-08-30
US	35939288	R35G551EBKQ2K9	1570714460	59436906	911 Beauty Secrets: An Emergency Guide to Looking Great at Every Age, Size and Budget	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very good basic beauty book	Many beauty books include large color photos, and/or illustrations. This is a text book only, and actually this is a good thing, because it means that the book is full of so much information. It covers the beauty basics, and lots more. Attitude, style, skin care, hair care, emergency diets and so on. Not only the classic beauty chapters are included. Among the more rare ones are Seasonal beauty, Beauty on a budget and Beauty on the road. Not every aspect of beauty is addressed though. Elaborate hair styles are not included, for instance.<br />This is a book to read if you want to learn the basics and go beyond them. I recommend you to read it from cover to cover, because there are so many good beauty tips in it that are spread all over the book. If you only read the chapter in which you think it is included, you might miss something. On the other hand, the book has a good index, so if you know what you are looking for, you will find it.<br />I think this book will age well, because the author focuses on feeling good about yourself and finding your classic style. Even the fashion chapters will survive for a long time, since they are based on how to build a basic wardrobe (fashion accessories can always be added), combination of clothes, caring for accessories etc.<br />The format of the book makes it very handy. Diane Irons says that &quot;beauty is every woman's birthright&quot; and gives every woman the means to achieve beauty - that is, every woman gets the knowledge she needs in order to make the best of what she has got. This book also inlcudes inspiration and motivation - reading it makes you feel more beautiful, already.	2002-08-21
US	35939288	RB8TQCN0GH33U	0679736344	426800767	Where Angels Fear to Tread (Vintage Classics)	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Very British	This is a novel about character development. At the same time, the author enlightens the world of a few people. There is not so much story in this book; its strength lies elsewhere. However, having read Forster before, this novel made me a little bit disappointed. To me, the development of Philip is not thoroughly enough described. It does not seem so likely that such a development would occur, either. Philip goes from &quot;blind&quot; to &quot;seeing&quot;. He does not take the world as is anymore, but thinks for himself. There is a chain of events that makes him develop, but the events in themselves are not so important. The other characters do not develop at all in my opinion. That is not to say that they are not complex; some are indeed, but they do not develop. Philip is naturally a complex character, too. <br />England is used to illustrate the world we already know, whereas Italy is used to illustrate &quot;the foreign&quot;. This concept works today, still, although &quot;the foreign&quot; would probably have been moved further away. Irony is a big part of Forster's writing: anyone who &quot;loves everything Italian&quot; should laugh. Forster is very subtle here, too subtle in my opinion. <br />This is not to say that this is not a good book, but not as good as, for instance, A room with a view.	2002-08-20
US	35939288	R2JBDV3R5B2NH7	2246333814	345458243	Mes nuits sont plus belles que vos jours: Roman (French Edition)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Very French, rather disturbing	I must say that this is a very special love story that is told. All our old prejudices about what love is, how love is (or should be) expressed, how love feels etc. are being completely well, almost, ignored. This book is clearly written in the modern French tradition, although it has neither Sagan's bittersweet moments, nor the fresh perspective of Alexandre Jardin, and at the same time it is an almost Aristotelian tragedy. Yet, this is a book entirely in its own right, and the love story is touching, if disturbing. To me, the characters are rather strange, but I do not think it improbable that such persons exist. <br />This book explores the limits of love, and the limits of human beings. I consider this to be done with much insight. However, it does have elements that I find disturbing. After reading this book, you will have increased your understanding of humanity and its shortcomings. There are always compromises that must be made. What I find very interesting about this book is that it is fairly original. This is not your soft cute kittenish average love story - if that is what you are after, read something else. I am not saying that those love stories are bad, in fact, I love to read such love stories from time to time, but if you only want that, this book is not for you. This is about the darker side of love, too.	2002-08-12
US	35939288	R241GQNVF9VTRO	0195126270	499071199	The Devil's Dictionary	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A must-have for cynics	Bierce writes new defnitions to words, in a way that is very funny and thought-provoking. By reading his definitions, you get a totally new perspective. I think his definitions can be summed up by the quote &quot;Human beings always have two motives for everything they do. One good motive, and the real motive.&quot; This is a book to actually read from cover to cover, although it is arranged in alphabetical order. I could not stop either reading or laughing. I also recommend to mark your favourites as you go through the book, as you will want to read them to friends or use in e-mail.	2002-08-09
US	35939288	R2R5ZQ0E01U1VD	0375752250	136519110	The Complete Tightwad  Gazette: Promoting Thrift as a Viable Alternative Lifestyle	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Useful, interesting, eye-opening	Of the books that I bought last year, this has proven to be the most useful. I find myself constantly referring to it. It is a very good reference book, and I recommend it to everybody. The book is loosely structured, but it has a good index at the back, so it is not really a problem. The author covers not only the obvious topic of thrift, but also more general topics such as how to set goals, how to be creative and so on. It is really more than &quot;just&quot; about how to save money. Reading this book made me realize that I have far more options concerning what to do with my life than I thought before.<br />I have read the book from cover to cover once, but I read bits and parts of it almost everyday. Everything in it is not for me, but it is interesting to read about, and it makes me think in a new way. It instructs the reader, as the author writes, not only in specific ways to save money, but also explains the method of saving money, which makes it so much more valuable.<br />The book has some really good &quot;universal recipes&quot;, that I have tried with much success.  It is also, in a sense, a good book about home-keeping. The attitude of the author is wonderful and priceless. The most important thing to learn from this book is that you are, actually, in control of your own life, and you have the possibilities you wish, you only have to recognize them. No, you cannot have everything, but if you prioritize, you can have what is important to you. This is really a book about how to live the good life.	2002-08-08
US	35939288	RCLVDXP08LGMK	0679432191	965436504	Packing: Bags to Trunks (Chic Simple Components)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Excellent book on packing	As with all Chic Simple books, this little book is filled with good advice, beautiful pictures, interesting quotes and a nice attitude. It addresses questions such as what should I bring, how much should I bring and why should I bring anything at all? It also discusses different kinds of bags, and when they are appropriate. Not only is this book about packing for travels - it is about how to pack to commute to work or going to the gym as well.<br />Details about how to pack clothes and how to build a travel wardrobe are also included, plus some very good lists to use as starting points, as well as a packing chart to personalize.	2002-08-06
US	35939288	R2SUNNAHVDJ9FY	067944579X	753395137	Cooking Tools (Chic Simple)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Chic and simple as always ...	This is a Chic Simple component which deals with kitchen equipment. What do you really need, and how do you use it? The book covers such questions as how you find the perfect knife, the perfect measuring cups and so on.<br />As with any Chic Simple book, it does also have interesting quotes and miscellaneous facts in the margin and elsewhere (with headlines such as &quot;Cinema Cuisine&quot;). The book includes some recipes and &quot;how to&quot;-instructions, too. However, this is very basic, and you probably will not need this book if you have a good cookbook. On the other hand, it does have the delightful attitude that permeates all other Chic Simple books that I have (and I have almost all), so if you like that, this could be a worthwile addition to your collection of Chic Simple books.	2002-08-05
US	35939288	R12SUKCGRV1HAQ	0349105413	730719851	Fanfan	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Original love story!	Alexandre Jardin plays and experiment with conventions about love and youth. His hero, also named Alexandre, has a very unconventional idea how to best love ONE woman for a life time. His pursuit of the love of his life, Fanfan, is enjoyable and funny. When other young heros cannot wait to have sex, Alexandre does the unexpected. It is rare that one comes across a book which deals with the \\"serious\\" subject of love in such a new way. Conventions are not mottos; they are hindrances! Jardin is original and writes entertainingly. In fact, this is sheer brilliance.	2002-08-04
US	35939288	R8AZ3NJ80HCT8	0449912507	365069836	A Time to Love and a Time to Die: A Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Increases your understanding of humanity	This is a very interesting and frightening book, exploring such a dark theme as war and what it does to soldiers as well as civilians. Ernst Graeber is a very young soldier, but from his outlook on life you would expect him to be middle-aged ... at the very least. Of course, it is the war that has aged him. As the title suggests: for him it is really a time to love, although the times are so horrible. <br />The book begins with scenes from Russia, where Graeber is stationed. He knows in his heart by now that Germany will not win the war, and that they in fact are retreating, no matter what is said on the radio. Graeber is able to think surprisingly clear on the subject.<br />When Graeber gets leave (which is since long overdue) he is very surprised. However, he is certain that he will come home to Germany as it was when he left it. To his great sorrow, he discovers that he has not left the war, only discovered another frontier of it. His home town is bombed and much destroyed, and his parents are nowhere to be found. He cannot understand the sense of it all. But he meets a friend from his childhood, Elisabeth, and they have a short, almost unreal, love story. <br />Graeber makes inquiries about his parents, and therefore he meets lots of people. Almost everybody is looking for somebody else - somebody who is missing or not accounted for. Thus, Graeber gets to see into many other people's minds, and understand what the war does to them, to them all. People do not wear so many masks - there is no energy left to that. Graeber meets mankind uncovered. <br />Remarque is very good at describing mankind at is worst, and he shows us that cruelty has no mother tongue - it is a universal language.	2002-08-04
US	35939288	RVMBZX32QWCVZ	015668568X	831494069	Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cats, cats, cats!!!	I love this book. T.S. Eliot is known to have said that he liked certain cats more than certain people ( a view that I thoroughly understand), and in this charming collection of poems he shows us why:) All cats are neither good nor bad, what matters is that they are CATS, which means a special attitude to the world ...	2002-08-03
US	35939288	R2R5JG9JRWYM2D	1857993284	380749586	Sophie's World	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Informative but not really fiction	I think that Jostein Gaarder has achieved one of his goals: to write an introduction to philosophy. He has constructed the book as part fiction, part non-fiction. Sophie, the main character, gets disturbing mail she has not asked for: a correspondence course in philosophy! To her great surprise, she finds the letters very interesting. This is the part where I think Gaarder has succeded. The correspondence course is well written, especially about the older philosophers and philosophies. If you are looking for an introduction to philosophy, this is a very good start. It can also be useful if you &quot;simply&quot; wish to brush up your common knowledge. Gaarder is a teacher, and it shows (in a good way in this part). <br />However, the story surrounding the correspondence course is not that well written, in my opinion. This is not a work of an author who wishes to tell a story, to relate to mankind etc. The story is in a sense skilfully developed, but that is not enough to create a really, really good read. I think that Gaarder fails to create trustworthy characters. The reader does not identify with them (at least I did not, and I had the same problem with Das Kartengesheimnis). There is also in some places a strange lack of empathy between the characters.<br />That Gaarder does not write that good fiction, in my opinion, does not mean that this is not a very good book, and I still recommend it.	2002-08-03
US	35939288	RI3GJ7EEBF7WN	0753804611	191624894	Vita Brevis: A Letter to St Augustine	Books	4	4	18	N	N	Another side of Augustine ...	This is a compilation of letters from Floria Aemilia to Augustine, and it reveals quite another side of him. Anyone who has read his Confessiones cannot help but think what a boring life he lead .. however, after having read these letters, you realize that that was just one side of his life. These letters are moving and very interesting. True love letters from another time - yet they feel timeless. Surely such a love story could have taken place today, although the obstacles would have been different. <br />The foreward about how these letters came into Jostein Gaarder's possession is also very interesting - a dream for booklovers coming true!	2002-08-03
US	35939288	R3287OSMH7MXP6	0609605038	653562994	Frederic Fekkai: A Year of Style	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Beautiful and inspirational	This is a very beautiful book. I would recommend anyone who spend money on fashion magazines to spend those money on books like these instead. They are durable and are not ageing as fast as magazines. The book contains many inspirational pictures, and many good tips about style, how to be chic, grooming etc. However, this is not an \\"how to\\"-book. If you look for more detailed tips on how to plan your wardrobe etc., look elsewhere<br />The book is divided in chapters after the months of the year. Therefore, it is a book you can come back to all the time. It is best enjoyed browsed through with a cup of tea or similar. I especially liked the little notes in the margins - tips on how to make your life more beautiful and chic. Many of them refer to things to buy, but many refer to things that are simple and inexpensive.	2002-08-02
US	35939288	RP5SPRT6PYONG	0609607391	407151372	The Art of Growing Up: Simple Ways to Be Yourself at Last	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Encouraging!!!	As so many other young women, I dread growing old and losing IT (if I have it, otherwise losing the possibility of ever getting IT). However, after reading this book I felt much calmer on the subject. The author speaks to the reader like a friend, and teaches that there are many ages in a woman's life, where different styles and attitudes are appropriate. Old can be chic! Young does not necessarily equal chic!	2002-08-02
US	35939288	R2PTLJKZHVJQAW	0811828964	56191234	The Bad Girl's Guide to Getting What You Want	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A book for bad girls in training	This book is hilariously funny. It is empowering and interesting. Although it may appear somewhat shallow, it has a deeper message: women should know their worth. Historically, women who have dared to live their lives exactly as they wanted have been considered a threat to society, and unfortunately, this still has some meaning today. <br />This is an inspirational guide for women. Although some advice may seem a little bit extreme, they are written tongue in cheek. Bad girls are not \\"bad\\" - but they do not compromise their lives for a man or anyone else for that matter. Reading this book is *almost* better than chocolate - it is very confidence boosting.	2002-07-18
US	35939288	R1KX9I874NLK1F	0786866942	885974332	The Bombshell Manual of Style	Books	3	3	7	N	N	A funny read but not so much information	This is a very cute book. I recommend it for anyone who is interested in reading about bombshells, and confirm their prejudices:) It is a very quick read, and by reading it, one can delight in daydreams and fantasies about being The Bomb. It can also be used for educational purposes - it covers many areas of the life of a bombshell. It is important to note that this book focuses on the old school, not the new chic look.<br />If you are looking for advice on how to actually becoming a bombshell, however, this is not the book to buy. Reading it is more like browsing through an entertaining magazine than actually reading a book, and there is not so much content. This is not a book that can be used practically; it can \\"only\\" be used as a nice distraction. I liked the chapter about different perfumes best. There are also a few hints about style as for clothing, but overall, this is a book for amusement and not for serious fashion (or other) advice.	2002-07-18
US	35939288	RNYKI4GVLPJ2D	0761119396	690240158	Three Black Skirts: All You Need to Survive	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Charming and upbeat	The author tries to cover many areas in women's lives, and admits that she is no expert of all of them. Nevertheless, I think the result is very good. She has consulted people who know more than she doew about some subjects, and no one should be expected to be an expert about everything. Such an author would lack credibility. Instead, Anna Johnson manages to write like a somewhat older friend - she has been there and done that. <br />The book is not only filled with interesting tips and tactics, but also makes you feel better about yourself and your life when reading it. I would also like to especially recommend the bibliography in the end - lots of good booktips!	2002-07-17
