US	36232108	R1KOH8GFIGXK2K	1559279907	601611030	A Home at the End of the World: A Novel	Books	2	3	13	N	N	A fair achievement	In Mr Cunningham's novel we follow the lives of two boyhood friends Jonathan and Bobby. The former is rather shy, he likes to play with a doll and enjoys indoor games whereas the latter has a bolder character. They grow up in Cleveland and experience the kind of \\"reckless overnight friendship particular to those who are young.\\" After college they move to New York where they live in an improbable mnage  trois with a girl called Clare. A few years later they move to the country where \\"their\\" - there are two likely fathers - daughter Rebecca is born. <br />The novel features an endless succession of rather banal events, people moving in different directions never quite knowing what their destination should be or what motivates them to do what they are doing. What is the author talking about? Is he describing the love between teenage boys? Their relationship with their parents? Their parents slowly becoming old? A couple of gay men living together with a woman? A woman who inexplicably wishes to have a child by a gay father? A trio trying to raise a child? Unfortunately there is no answer to these interesting issues in the novel because the author keeps the text at the level of mere actions, never pausing to reflect more deeply on what motivates people to perform a particular action. An altogether disappointing novel.	2005-10-03
US	36232108	R1FVJDX1OIHJY	0751535222	137875215	Necessary Evil	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Fair...	For Matt Franklin and his comrades in arms, robbing a Securicor van should have been a routine operation but things didn't turn out the way they should have and the result was a disaster. Two of Franklin's companions are shot dead and a third one severely injured. Who is trying to wipe them and their families out? Could it be that the British army and government were implicated in the massacre? What lies behind the walls of a mysterious and secret research centre in the English countryside? <br />Finally the only one left alive, Matt Franklin, with the help of DI Crane, becomes involved in a series of events that lead to the climax in the London underground. <br />Such novels are to literature what instant soups are to gastronomy. They taste bad because the ingredients are miserable: guns, cars, blood, explosions, pursuits... But readers possessing the necessary degree of naivet might be content with such a story line.	2005-09-28
US	36232108	RBAME8EJRB4KL	0143039105	660902888	Complete Short Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	46	48	N	N	A kaleidoscope of human faiths	This edition features all the short stories written by the author. Here is a small selection of those I've enjoyed most. <br />In \\"Under The Garden\\" William Wilditch, after spending a long time abroad, is now visiting the family house, Winton Hall, which he hasn't seen since his childhood and where his brother George lives. After the first night, Wilditch finds it difficult to distinguish between memories and fantasy, fact and dream. He remembers a dream he had as a child when he entered a dark cave on the island in the middle of the pond in the garden. In that cave he met two rogues: Javitt, a sententious old man who had lived there for many years with a mute woman, Mary. <br />In \\"A Visit To Morin\\" a narrator, Dunlop, remembers admiring a French author called Pierre Morin who was controversial in the 1950s because he was accused of Jansenism while others called him an Augustinian. Dunlop spots Morin at a Midnight Mass in a village near Colmar. After introducing himself to the author, he is invited to his house where they have an astonishing conversation during which Morin reveals to Dunlop that long after he ceased to believe in God, he still remains a carrier of belief through his books. <br />A patient suffering from leprosy in \\"Dream Of A Strange Land\\" in Switzerland is driven to a desperate action because he can't get his doctor's help. Indeed the doctor's house has been transformed into a casino to accommodate the Herr General, now too weak to travel to Monte Carlo. Not only does the patient think he went to the wrong house but he thinks he is in the wrong country as well, Germany probably... <br />In \\"A Discovery In The Woods\\" a group of strange children with short and uneven limbs who move like crabs decide that they should enter a new territory in search of blackberries. Thus they leave the confines of their village, Bottom, and they discover an enormous house resembling a giant stranded fish which seems to have been thrown up among the rocks to die. <br />An \\"old sterile thing\\" is the way the American woman in \\"Beauty\\" is described. She is desperately calling after her Pekinese dog Beauty in the night. But Beauty left her mistress for a well deserved nocturnal ramble in the dirt of the city. <br />Madame Volet in \\"Chagrin In Three Parts\\" lost her husband to Emmy with whom he fell in love. Her friend Madame Dejoie tries to console her by suggesting that satisfaction can be achieved if only one can discover in oneself \\"the capacity for love\\" for another woman! <br />Henry Cooper in \\"The Overnight Bag\\" travels on a BEA flight from Nice to London carrying in his BOAC overnight bag what he claims to be his wife's \\"dead baby\\". <br />In \\"Mortmain\\" Philip Carter's new marriage to Julia is jeopardised by a series of notes hidden in their apartment by his former wife Josephine. <br />Mary Watson in \\"Cheap In August\\" is taking a holiday in Jamaica where she meets an unhappy and lonely American, Henry Hickslaughter. Because Mary really went on holiday to look for an adventure she can't help feeling that her attachment to the old man is cheap in the same way as everything is cheap in Jamaica in August. <br />A young woman author appraised by her publisher for her \\"power of observation\\" turns out to have no power of observation whatsoever in \\"The Invisible Japanese Gentlemen\\". <br />In \\"Awful When You Think Of It\\" a man on a train has an imaginary dialogue with a fellow passenger's baby and he tries to picture what kind of adult that baby will become. <br />\\"Doctor Crombie\\" portrays a school doctor living at the beginning of the 20th century who is convinced that there is a correlation between sexual intercourse and cancer: \\"Almost one hundred percent of those who die of cancer have practised sex\\" he claims! <br />In \\"Two Gentle People\\" Marie-Claire Duval and Henry Graves meet in the Parc Monceau in Paris, then have dinner together only to realise that the hour came too late in both their lives... <br />A wonderful collection ofshort stories by one of the greatest British authors of the 20th century.	2005-09-27
US	36232108	R1IPYKW3PAE9S7	1587886103	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Classic Collection)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A classic American tale	In this classic tale written in 1850, N. Hawthorne tells the tragic tale of a fallen woman, Hester Prynne. In his essay entitled \\"The Custom House\\", the author pretends to have found a mysterious relic of cloth in the shape of the letter along with a manuscript in which a certain Jonathan Pue described the letter's wearer. <br />Thus the character of Hester Prynne was born, this adulteress who has to wear the shameful letter A embroidered on her garment in scarlet letter and insolent gold thread. Her error is adultery and the Puritan magistrates of colonial Boston decided that she should wear the bright letter affixed to her breath. In the opening scene, Hester is standing dishonoured before the town holding another man's child just as her long-lost husband Roger Chillinworth arrives in Boston. The story is tightly constructed and takes place in 24 chapters with the action in the first, the twelfth and the last revolving around the scaffold on which Hester suffers her punishment. The structure is taught and essentially limited to the description of the three adult characters of Hester Prynne, Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale and Roger Chillingworth, each in turn wearing various masks to hide themselves from the failures of the human heart. Hester never reveals her lover's identity thus protecting her from public disgrace but not from his interior sense of guilt. At any rate she is a strong character, a rebel dwelling in solitude which grants her freedom of thought, particularly concerning the fate of women: \\"The world's law was no law for her mind\\" the author writes. To the reader she appears as a fascinating creature, captivating, rebellious, even intimidating. The dnouement is equally startling. After Hester's daughter Pearl marries, she returns to the small abandoned cottage and resumes her former life, not being able to remain an expatriate, the scarlet letter now voluntarily clamped to her bosom as if it were part of her true identity. Her triumph finally lies in her willingness to take up the mark that identifies her as a woman.	2005-09-26
US	36232108	R2GWCSL1D0IE0C	006093056X	989104739	Mara and Dann: An Adventure	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A harrowing vision of life on earth	In her novel, Mrs Lessing depicts the epic adventure of Mara and her brother Dann who live in the distant future on the African continent, then called Ifrik. Its centre is plagued by an incessant drought whereas its northern part is permanently covered by a coat of ice. Mara and Dann are respectively seven and four when they become orphans. They are brought to a place called The Rock Village and it is Daima who takes care of them. A few years later they begin their epic journey from the centre of Ifrik to its northern part where there is more water and consequently more food. During their trip they come across all kinds of primitive peoples living in very poor conditions and in many instances Dann and Mara have to fight in order to survive. <br />It is an apocalyptic world which Mrs Lessing imagined for her novel. One in which people live in tribe-like colonies and behave in a very aggressive manner toward each other. It is a world in which all scientific knowledge has been lost and in which there is no more room for culture or art. There are cities which were once splendid and now have either turned into ruins or have been submerged by floods. Nature has become so hostile that it is barely possible for people to inhabit the centre of Ifrik. There are giant spiders, water dragons, enormous lizards and huge beetles who can bisect a child with their pincers. A frightening vision of the future of our planet indeed. <br />Readers will no doubt be comforted by the fact that there are still authors today who manage to write a powerful adventure story without resorting to the tedious ingredients of guns, cars, explosions, terrorists, FBI/CIA & Co. and billions of dollars.	2005-09-20
US	36232108	R1AXXS71RRR3MI	0743429923	312884389	Cold Monday	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Treachery, suspicion and more...	Ed Coltrane is an ex-SAS operative who has been trying to hunt down those who murdered his wife Astrid Kweiss in Bosnia-Herzegovina. They are Brigadier Domedzic and Zoran Mihac. An old colleague of Coltrane's tells him that Domedzic is now in London at a British intelligence \\"safe house\\". Coltrane quickly senses that he can't miss this last chance to take revenge. But to achieve his aim, he will have to compromise and even face an act of national betrayal... A fast-paced adventure story in Mr Strong's traditional style.	2005-09-19
US	36232108	RP9PCY0RTJS1B	0385720807	898516987	The Romantics: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The vigorous life of contemporary India	Samar is a 20 year old student in 1989. He arrives in Benares, \\"the Oxford of the East\\", where he hopes to study and spend his time with his favourite books. He is a shy young man who does not enjoy the casual display of personality at social gatherings. The superficial amiability and the light chatter make him feel uncomfortable and he doesn't enjoy taking part in conversations, afraid to say the wrong thing and not quite sure what the right thing to say is. He grew up alone and therefore developed no skills for intimacy or even friendship which he feels requires a degree of self-abnegation from him. <br />However after meeting several characters like Miss West, Rajesh - a fellow student who turns out to be a criminal - and Catherine, Samar slowly realises that socialising allows him to discover a whole new world. It is particularly his love affair with Catherine which he experiences as a strong emotional turmoil. It is understandable since Samar grew up in a culture where men and women are ushered into marriage after parents have convinced each other about their respective social and financial status. Love is supposed to follow marriage and not the other way round and it doesn't matter much if it doesn't... <br />An interesting tale of a young provincial man who struggles to make sense of a strange and alien cosmopolitan world. The descriptions of Pondicherry, Allahabad, Benares, Dharamshala and the Himalayas are lyrical and the reader is constantly reminded of the bewitching power of India. <br />	2005-09-08
US	36232108	R3VRNLYCVJWDMD	0385512821	472956853	The Finishing School: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An original and entertaining novella	Rowland Mahler and his wife Nina founded the College Sunrise in Ouchy, Switzerland. They are respectively 29 and 26 and they have nine students. Rowland teaches creative writing and in his spare time he aspires to become a novelist. But then his seventeen year old student Chris Wiley starts writing a novel about Mary Queen of Scots entitled \\"Who Killed Darnley\\" and Rowland suffers from writing block because he is jealous of the ease with which Chris's writing progresses. Rowland can't understand why his teenage pupil is able to write like a professional, how he can manage language so wonderfully and with so little experience. Nothing compared with his own dismal efforts at mediocre prose. <br />But as the reader progresses along the plot, he realises that nothing in Mrs Spark's novel is as it seems. The characters are well drawn, the scenes are often very amusing because they are laced with acute and witty observations about authors, publishers, school life, marital relationships and more generally about present day preoccupations. <br />	2005-09-08
US	36232108	R250G4ZOO7V0EL	0876857268	793104406	The Brotherhood of the Grape	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A passionate novel	The brotherhood of the grape consists of a group of men gathering at the Angelo Masso winery in San Elmo. There is Angelo himself, Cavallero, Zarlingo, Benedetti, Antrilli, Mascarini and Nicholas. During their meetings, they gamble, brawl and of course drink heavily. Nicholas Molise and his wife Maria brought up four children now in their fifties, Mario, Virgil, Stella and Henry, the latter being the narrator in Mr Fante's both tragic and funny tale. Nicholas is now 76 and he used to work as a contractor and he built many imposing buildings in San Elmo. A passionate man of Italian origin, the head of the family is described by Henry as \\"a judge, jury and executioner, Jehovah himself\\". He scorns his sons because, to his bitter disappointment, none of them became a stonemason. And now Nick pesters Henry to join him in an absurd project of building of a smokehouse up in the Sierra mountains... <br />It is both the funny and sad tale of a son watching his father age, wait, mark time and become increasingly lonelier. But there is anger too in Henry's memories when he remembers his father's ignorance, he who kept books out of Henry's range, despised them, ignored them. His ranting, threats, greed, bullying and gambling are hard to forget. Henry can't but despise his father's old bones and skin, his wine-soaked oldness, his sinful and sodden friends. He can barely contain his anger at being trapped on an absurd safari into the mountains because of his father's vanity, to prove himself he is still \\"a hotshot stonemason\\". Yet Henry is finally the only son who stands by his father's side as his final moment approaches... <br />The novel is brimming with love, violence, death, religion and also plenty of humour because the author's prose is honest, evocative and intimate.	2005-08-24
US	36232108	RNSC4TFX04SJU	1850896909	128172933	The Stockholm Syndicate	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good entertainment	Jules Beaurain used to wok for the Belgian police but since he was caught in a crossfire during a hijack at Athens airport, during which his wife was killed, he set up his own anti-terrorist unit called Telescope. Unfortunately since then he became the Stockholm Syndicate's target. One night Henderson and Beaurain together with 20 armed men were watching suspicious movements in a building in the rue des Bouchers when suddenly an assassin appeared out of nowhere with his Luger pointing at Beaurain. The latter could shoot at him with a gas pistol and then Henderson and his men neutralised him and took him away in their van. <br />But then a series of questions had to be posed. Why did the Syndicate send a Russian called Serge Litov to do the killing? Was the dark-haired woman Beaurain had spotted in the window of the Auberge des Roses next to the scene of the shooting a watcher safely placed there by the Syndicate? Knowing that Beaurain had escaped the killing, what would the Syndicate's next step be? And how would Telescope counter their next attack? Or could it be that the Syndicate's plan was not to kill Beaurain but, far worse, to have Litov infiltrate Telescope and locate its main base at Chteau Wardin...?	2005-08-16
US	36232108	R1ZXS2QJ46NKFT	0679781382	999618850	Asylum	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A superb, somber and realistic novel	Max Raphael becomes the deputy superintendent of a provincial hospital for the criminally insane in 1959. He has been appointed by superintendent Jack Straffen and is going to work together with psychiatrists John Archer and Peter Cleave, the latter being the narrator of the ensuing events. Max is accompanied by his wife Stella and his son Charlie. <br />But soon Stella comes to despise the claustrophobic atmosphere of the mental institution and her husband Max - it was a cold and white marriage - who has a weak sexual drive and lacks the moral and physical imagination to continue to find Stella attractive and who channels his libido into his work. <br />It is therefore understandable that after meeting one of Peter's patients, a sculptor called Edgar Stark, she feel irresistibly attracted by his strong manliness. <br />But Edgar is a delusional patient who killed his wife Ruth, then cut her head and mutilated her. This was the result of an unconscious process and the product of the delusional structure of his mind to suppose his wife's infidelity. Edgar structured his sculpting around Ruth until the idealisation of her person collapsed and he developed morbid delusions about her infidelity. <br />One day Edgar manages to steal some of Max's clothes and absconds to London. When Peter notices that Stella has secretly visited Edgar several times in London, he tries to warn her about the dangers such a situation is bound to present, but to no avail. Stella decides to join Edgar and flees her family thus placing her life into the hands of a dangerous criminal. <br />The narrative structure of the novel is particularly original since it combines both events which unfold chronologically and a retrospective account or confession to Peter of Stella's relationship with Edgar. The narrative is superb and unruffled and the slowly shocking descent into the tormented depths of madness is a brilliant achievement. Few authors have shown with such elegance and restraint the extremes of mental derangement.	2005-08-16
US	36232108	R2WOBY90UM5U0F	0312147414	238820264	Songdogs: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A remarkable achievement	Mr McCann portrays a young man, Conor Lyons, visiting his ageing father Michael during six days in Mayo, Ireland. During these six days - they seem like the days of the Creation indeed - Conor retraces his father's epic life from his early childhood after the first World War when he was just a bundle of abandoned skin and rescued by two Protestant ladies who raised him. Later, when the ladies died, Michael sold their property and developed a strong passion for photography. He sold his prints to various newspapers. In 1939 he went to Madrid and subsequently to Mexico where he married Juanita. Obsessed with the beauty of her body, Michael took hundreds of pictures of her in various stages of nudity. These photos became a strong point of discord between them in later years and they're the probable cause for Juanita's vanishing 11 years before Conor's account. After that they moved to California, Wyoming and New York before finally returning back to Ireland. <br />It is the impressive tale of a son retracing his parents' long journey in order to try to find his mother again. It is also the story of a son witnessing the physical decay of his old father rotting in his own dirt and whose sole preoccupation in old age is fishing. A formidable novel by the best contemporary Irish novelist.	2005-08-16
US	36232108	R2C84VZ4URNLVH	1582340269	927504401	The Ventriloquist's Tale	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A sharp, rich and fantastic story	Mrs Melville's original tale tells the story of the McKinnons who lived in the Rupununi district of the Guianas at the beginning of the 20th century. It is a fairly complex tale involving many protagonists and what is interesting is that the plot revolves around the Amerindian mythology of the brother-sister incest, in this case involving two characters called Beatrice and Danny McKinnon. <br />The myth concerns the eclipse which represents brother-and-sister incest in the form of a copulating sun and moon and it is widespread throughout the Americas, from the Bering Straight in the North to the southern parts of Brazil. People believe that a brother came secretly to his sister at nights. She enjoyed this but, not knowing who he was, painted his face in black with some genipap plant to identify him. In his shame, the brother rose to the sky and became the moon which explains why the moon has dark patches on its face. Other events are interesting in the novel: Father Napier's pathetic attempt at converting the Rupununi district to Christianity and his subsequent failure and descent into madness, the existence of Beatrice's son Sonny and his tragic disappearance and also Beatrice's threat uttered to her sister Wifreda during an eclipse to make her blind. An impressive first novel well worth reading. <br />	2005-08-16
US	36232108	R3IPCG86VBCK5E	0395957826	185953122	The Long Falling	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A respectable first novel	Grace Quinn, of English origin, has been married for 30 years to Michael Quinn, a violent and alcoholic man and has lived for the same time as an outsider in Ireland, in a small place called Monaghan. Her first son Sean drowned in a ditch when he was 3 and her second son, Martin, left to live in Dublin. He was forced to lave Monaghan after having admitted to his father that he was homosexual, a fact his father couldn't admit since \\"the animals in the fields don't even do that\\". Finally Grace can't take the violence anymore and runs over Michael with her car one night as he is coming back home, drunk. <br />After her crime, Grace joins her son Martin in Dublin but she soon understands that it is difficult for her to come to terms with her son's way of life and she can't help feeling out of place, bored and tired of staying in the house Martin shares with his boyfriend Henry. Furthermore there is neither escape nor redemption to be found in Dublin for the crime she committed. <br />An altogether interesting first novel with an original plot structure although perhaps a bit lengthy at times. Certainly Grace's psychological instability in a life which became devoid of meaning after Michael's death and her son's difficulty in trying to comprehend her behaviour in Dublin are the strong points in Mr Ridgway's novel.	2005-08-13
US	36232108	R24SARFVNJYBXB	0679439005	568425138	Journey To Ithaca	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The story of a troubled relationship	Matteo and Caroline were both brought up in Italy. Caroline was sent to a convent school in Milan and Matteo to a school in Turin which had been recommended by his uncle. However Matteo performed very poorly: he was bad at maths, could not sing and played football in a disastrous way so that he was constantly bullied by his classmates. Finally his parents decided to take him back home and they found a tutor, Fabian, for his education. But he remained a rebellious student, learning nothing, eating nothing. Whenever his father talked to him about a career in banking or in the family silk business, Matteo would simply smile faintly. Finally in the summer of 1975, he married Sophie, the daughter of a German banker and together they left for India taking with them Matteo's much beloved copy of Hermann Hesse's \\"The Journey to the East\\". <br />In Bombay they met Pierre Eduard who took them to an elderly woman who performed a few tricks as a form of worship to the glory of Shiva. Whilst Sophie remained unimpressed with what she called \\"party tricks\\", Matteo on the other hand was quite transfixed by what he had seen. Later they met Mr Pandey, a \\"deus ex machina\\" as Sophie called him in her exasperation, who suggested that they go and live in an ashram. After that Matteo came up with the idea that they replicate the journey which a famous saint had undertaken on foot to a shrine where he obtained enlightenment. But Sophie could not share Matteo's enthusiasm about searching for \\"the mystery that is the heart of India\\" during the exhausting expedition and even after such a short time spent in the country, she had no doubt that it was a culture to which she would never belong. Matteo on the other hand was literally seized by madness with his quest for the \\"devine light\\" despite the warnings that \\"the gods are destructive in this country\\". Will Matteo's studying with a swami at a distant ashram help him recover his senses? Will Matteo and Sophie go through this adventure togetherand recover their love? <br />Mrs Desai shows hard and driven people in her novel, the mutual contempt of a wife and a husband, the rejection foreigners may experience in India and also a man deluding himself in an impossible quest. Perhaps the author's other novels like \\"Baumgartner's Bombay\\" or \\"In Custody\\" are more accessible, less obscure.	2005-08-13
US	36232108	R2G43L0HK2MCOY	014007077X	104460557	A Sinless Season	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A powerful first novel	In his first novel published in 1982, Mr Galgut tells the tragic tale of three boys of about 16 who are sent to Bleda Reformatory in South Africa, a correctional facility for under-age delinquents, the principal of which is Mr Eugene Hall. There is Joseph Hamilton, a rather plump boy of unsubtle features and of nervous composure. Scott Berry, a shy brown-eyed boy. Raoul Dean, slim and indifferent. Although the three boys were raised in different social backgrounds, they used to spend a great deal of time together. Their deviant behaviour started with small theft, breaking shop windows and resisting their parents' authority. That is why they were convicted by a children's court to stay at Bleda Reformatory until the age of 18. But to Mr Hull's great disappointment it soon transpires that the three boys are unwilling to settle into the quiet and reverential attitude which is expected of the residents at Blenda. <br />A harrowing account of three teenaged boys growing up in violence, resentment and vengeance, their life completely devoid of peace, joy and contentment. Once again, a South African author shows us that life in that part of the world is more a matter of survival than of living. Mr Galgut's achievement can easily be compared to some of his compatriots like Andr Brink, Nadine Gordimer or J. M. Coetzee.	2005-08-13
US	36232108	R154RCR28M2ZKN	0192834789	866295104	Agnes Grey (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The tale of a governess	Mrs Bront tells the tale of Agnes Grey, a young governess of a little over 20 and her experience working for two families, The Bloomfields and their 3 children Tom, Mary Ann and Fanny, and with the Murrays and their two daughters Mathilda and Rosalie. <br />In writing her first novel, Mrs Bront must have drawn from her own experiences in 1839 when she worked for the Ingham family at Blake Hall and from 1840 till 1845 with the Robinsons at Thorp Green Hall. As her sister Charlotte sated, this personal experience lies behind many of the characters and events as well as Agnes's feelings in the novel. <br />As a first novel, it show an astonishing maturity and technical accomplishment since \\"Agnes Grey\\" is in many ways a very personal story. Mrs Bront describes as vividly as possible the strong pressures that a governess' life involved at that time - the isolation, the frustrations, the insensitive treatment of employers and their families. Actually it transpires in this novel that middle-class households used to consider a governess as little more than a servant thus undervaluing her role as an educator. And the author's view of such households is sharply cynical: they are self-satisfied, vulgar, small-minded snobs who delight in social pretension. They are mercilessly depicted in their moral emptiness and Agnes actually suffers from moral isolation which becomes more and more oppressive and alienating, especially during her stay with the Murrays. In this family Agnes feel deprived from ordinary human kindness and warmth of affection so much so that she falls into depression because she feels that her moral identity is being destroyed, no longer confident in her \\"distinctions of right and wrong\\". <br />A remarkable novel about a young woman and such issues as moral behaviour, moral responsibility and individual integrity.	2005-08-13
US	36232108	R3CDXPFRNN8J10	0141015667	162604904	Not On The Label	Books	5	16	16	N	N	"What really goes into the food on your plate"	The title of this review is the subtitle used by Mrs Lawrence for her book. And indeed readers will discover some harrowing facts about the way the industry processes our everyday food. If you don't know what mechanically recovered meat is, how chickens are raised in Brazil, that when you order chicken in a restaurant you may in fact be eating 30% beef, that a farm is no longer a place where food is grown but an industrial complex of packing sheds around lorry parks or that the conditions under which illegal immigrants pick fruit and vegetables in Spain can be compared to \\"South African apartheid\\". The author visited a giant refrigerated packing plant near Aylesford which reminded her of Fritz Lang's \\"Metropolis\\"! Did you know that a standard shopping basket in a supermarket with 20 fresh foods represents an average accumulation of 100 000 \\"food miles\\"? One example: the mangetout or asparagus from Peru you buy have a journey of 6312 miles behind them... Or that 60% of the factory bread consumed in Britain is produced by plants belonging to two giants - who call themselves \\"bakeries\\" - British Bakeries and Allied Bakeries? <br />Well Mrs Lawrence has plenty of examples in store in her study which will surprise many a reader about the way our modern food is manufactured and processed. In the same vein, readers may also be interested in Joanna Blythman's very instructive discussion of supermarket policies in her book \\"Shopped\\".	2005-08-13
US	36232108	R3IZES5UUCUJXZ	0394484665	981066276	The Golden Soak	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Entertaining adventure set in Australia	Alec Falls studied at the Royal School of Mines in London and after that married Rosalind but his prospecting work in Belavedra ended in bad luck when his team hit granite with no vestige of tin or other mineral. <br />When Alec realises one day that Rosalind has left him, he decides to try his luck again in Australia, this time at an abandoned gold mine in Jarra Jarra, Golden Soak, which belongs to Ed Garrety, a man Alec met in Australia two years ago before returning to England. Before leaving their house in Cornwall, Alec sets it on fire with the hope that the media will spread the news that he died in the blaze. Will he be more successful in his second attempt at mining in Australia and will Golden Soak bring him the riches he craves for? Not an easy task in a country where the landscape is \\"a frozen hell, all that gold and red, and the sun a great disk blazing on the lip of the desert, sinking till its lower rim touched the horizon, melting along it like some great steel mould pouring molten metal.\\"!	2005-08-13
US	36232108	R1LNN5IMICLDS2	0312992289	298733702	Paranoia	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An entertaining thriller	Adam Cassidy works for Wyatt Telecom when he makes the mistake of impersonating the VP for Corporate Events and ordering a sumptuous farewell dinner at Meals of Splendor for the retirement party of a loading dock employee called Jonesie. Subsequently, the management accuses Adam of hacking into proprietary company databases in order to obtain confidential disbursement numbers, of stealing 78 000 dollars from the Corporate Events account and of both wire and mail fraud, all of which could result in a prison sentence of 35 years and a fine of one million dollars. But then Nicholas Wyatt comes up with \\"a generous offer\\", a \\"special project\\" consisting in taking a job at a rival company called Trion Systems. Adam has no choice but to accept. \\"And my life as I knew it was over.\\" he will later reflect when remembering these early events before being entangled in a web of deceit and conspiracy.	2005-08-12
US	36232108	R19L8WNMX70HQP	0140275657	475188445	Age of Iron	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A taut and gripping book	In this novel first published in 1990, Mr Coetzee gives the grim account of both a human being facing imminent death and a country - South Africa - still immersed in the tragedy of the apartheid regime. Mrs Curren, a professor of classics in Cape Town, has just received the fatal news from her doctor, Dr Syfert, that she suffers from an incurable form of cancer. Part of the narrative consists in an imaginary letter Mrs Curren will never write to her daughter who left for America in 1976. Indeed she does not consider it to be just to share her burden with her daughter but, as she puts it, \\"to resist the craving to share my death\\", \\"to take my leave without bitterness\\" and \\"to embrace death as my own, mine alone.\\" But since it is nearly impossible for her to approach death without the support of another human being, she ends up sharing her thoughts and life with Mr Vercueil, a tramp she finds one morning sleeping in the garden of her house. <br />Death is omnipresent in Mr Coetzee's work, not only Mrs Curren's but in the townships of Cape Town where the lives of the coloureds are worth next to nothing and therefore death is as common as life for the people obliged to live there. A powerful, sad and unforgettable tale whose characters and events cut to the bone.	2005-08-12
US	36232108	R1OBVHBS84PJVU	0743231392	312610681	Always the Sun	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Appalling...	Mr Cross's novel inflicts on the reader a dreary litany of scenes in which people dress, eat, watch TV, smoke, drink wine or beer and utter the blandest of banalities of which the following quotation is quite representative: \\"People are freaked out by a train crash, which is a rare occurrence and unlikely to happen again any time soon. More people die every day on British roads than die annually on the railways. But rail crashes are newsworthy. After a crash, nervous passengers take to the roads. The roads are a great deal more dangerous than railways. And the more congested the roads are, the more dangerous they are. Simple really.\\" <br />One example of the many enlightening passages in this novel...	2005-08-11
US	36232108	R17W90RZN4ZQUQ	0571206115	621469086	Buenas Noches, Buenos Aires	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Noth worth a penny...	Mr Adair portrays the less than original English character of Gideon who takes a teaching post at a Berlitz school in Paris in the 1980s. After getting to know the gay scene, Gideon witnesses his acquaintances fall under the spell if the first Aids wave as the result of their wild fornication and libertine banter. <br />Readers will find very little compassion for any of the characters. The language is crude, the tale banal. Had Mr Adair published his novel 15 years ago, it may have been of interest but unfortunately today, what the author presents as \\"a true story\\" in page 1 is completely devoid of originality.	2005-08-11
US	36232108	R2NYX44YA5SUID	0679759328	897590420	Hotel Du Lac	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A novel of extraordinary delicacy	In her novel, Mrs Brookner portrays a middle-aged writer of romantic fiction, Edith Hope. People claim that there is a certain resemblance with Virginia Woolf in her features. At any rate her novels are published under the pen-name of Vanessa Wilde and they bear such titles as \\"The Sun at Midnight\\", \\"Beneath the Visiting Mood\\" or \\"The Stone and the Star\\". Edith doesn't seem to hold writing in high esteem. She describes this activity more like a compulsion: \\"she bent her head obediently to her daily task of fantasy and obfuscation\\", enjoying a rest \\"after her obscure and unnoticeable exertions\\". In fact she even considers reading as a kind of cure for the psychologically diseased: \\"Fiction, the time honoured resource of the ill-at-ease...\\" <br />After settling down at the Hotel du Lac - set in a small village on the Swiss shore of lake Geneva - Edith meets her extravagant fellow lodgers: Iris Pusey and her daughter Jennifer, Mme de Bonneuil and Monica accompanied by her insufferable dog Kiki. During her numerous discussions with these women, Edith starts reflecting on the life she has led so far and on love in general. The reader also learns about her past and her troubled relationship with her mother. And it is not before the end of the novel that we discover why Edith came to the Hotel du Lac, why she left London in such a haste and what exactly the \\"unfortunate lapse\\" was which brought her to her temporary exile in Switzerland. <br />Like one critic said about \\"Hotel du Lac\\": \\"Novels like Anita Brookner's are why we read novels\\".	2005-08-08
US	36232108	R1G23D20TY4Y0H	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	In the mainstream of Russia's great literary traditions	In this novel, the first published by Solzhenitsyn in 1962, the author chose to portray one ordinary day of Ivan Denisovich Shukov at a camp from reveille to retreat based on what he himself experienced in the year 1937. The work impresses so much because it is a portrayal with extraordinary vitality and thoughtfulness of its characters. One feels that only the author's personal experiences can lend the story its sense of authenticity. As a result of the violation of Soviet legality, people were put to camps and had to undergo severe physical and moral tests under extreme circumstances. That's why Shukhov's \\"ordinary\\" day arouses in the reader the feeling of pain for the fate of the people who rise up before us so vivid and so near. Yet the author's unique skill lies in the fact that the bitterness and pain are not rendered by a feeling of hopeless depression but by the profound humanity and solidarity of the inmates. The author shows that even in such a grim place as a Soviet camp there is room for humour, hope and feelings. Finally Solzhenitsyn being a first class stylist, his novel is written in the colourful and lively language in which folk metaphors are mixed with camp jargon.	2005-06-30
US	36232108	R3RX8IJYOOBSA	0451202341	334925003	Back Roads	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A moving novel	The main Character in Mrs O'Dell's story is Harley Altmyer, an 18 year-old boy living in the small town of Laurel Falls. He has to look after his younger sisters, Jody, Misty and Amber, because their mother is serving a life sentence in prison since she killed their father. He works at a Shop Rite with two incompetent work mates, Bud and Church, under the command of the useless boss Rick. And he has a second part-time job at Barklay's Appliances. Their house is a permanent chaos and it is very difficult for Harley to make both ends meet. He is assigned a social worker and a psychoanalyst whom he both loathes. But he has no choice since he doesn't want his sisters to be officially declared orphans and be sent to foster families. <br />The strength of this novel is the fact that the events are seen through Harley's young mind. He is often confused because he is not mature enough to have two jobs and educate his younger sisters at the same time. They in turn consider him more as a brother than a father and as a result there are frequent rows between them, especially between Harley and the elder girl Amber who strives for independence. But Harley is very much concerned by the well being of the girls and his worries even once make him have a hallucinatory vision of finding them dead at home, piled up in a pool of blood. <br />At the same time he is looking for a girlfriend and wonders if it is possible to love someone without getting personally involved, without any mutual feeling or judgement. His first relationship is a confused one with a neighbour, Callie Mercer, wife of a bank manager and mother of two children. And Harley often recalls his father and how he used to ill treat his children. <br />His struggle in life is all the more impressive since he gets no support at all from any adult, not even his uncle Mike.	2005-06-30
US	36232108	R1QNW2CI1YF7L0	0312979398	307722945	The Eye of the Tiger	Books	3	4	6	N	N	An action-crammed story	Harry Fletcher lives a quiet life on St Mary's Island and he takes charters on board \\"Wave Dancer\\" for fishing and diving. Angelo and Chubby are his two assistants. But the inoffensive Harry once used to be called Harry Bruce and he used to practice the art of violence and sudden death in Malaya, Vietnam, the Congo and Biatra. Furthermore he used to lift complete collections of gold coins in the British Museum and cut diamonds in Amsterdam and to transport hundreds of millions of dollars worth of gold bars from Switzerland to Rome. <br />One day three suspicious looking men, Charley Anderson, Mike Guthric and Jimmy North, want to hire Harry's boat claiming that they want \\"to do a little exploring\\" and that they need a full array of scuba diving and salvage equipment. Then they hand Harry a chart showing that they are interested in an area thirty miles north of the mouth of the Rovuma River. What are these men after? When they recognise Harry as \\"the gold heist from Rome\\", he senses that the stakes are high and that he is sitting in the game with \\"big boys\\" once again... One of the best adventure novel by Wilbur Smith.	2005-06-30
US	36232108	R1QVWFBMS15YPQ	2020252600	901662285	Chien De Printemps (French Edition)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Souvenirs, impressions, m&eacute;lancolie...	Le narrateur, g de dix-huit ans en 1964, retrouve une photo de deux adolescents anonymes et perdus  Paris, photographie qui a t prise par Francis Jansen trente ans auparavant. A cette poque, celui-ci travaillait  Paris pour une revue amricaine et il tait l'ami et le disciple du photographe de renom Robert Capa. Il avait frquent une femme, une certaine Colette Laurent, qui, en 1964, tentait dsesprment de prendre contact avec Jansen mais que celui-ci voulait - pour des raisons inconnues - viter  tout prix. Homme peu loquace, Jansen est parti pour le Mexique cette anne-l avec ses innombrables photos et a tout fait pour tre oubli depuis. <br />Homme insaisissable et mystrieux, ce Jansen fait partie de la galerie des protagonistes comme seul M. Modiano sait les peindre, prfrant le silence et les points de suspension aux mots. Croisements, impressions, concidences, paroles perdues dans la nuit des temps, oubli... Le narrateur tente de retourner dans des quartiers lointains, de retrouver ceux qu'il a perdus et tente de briser la couche de silence et d'amnsie qui l'entoure. Les silhouettes lui chappent parce qu'aprs trente ans les visages sont corrods par un doute de plus en plus insidieux. Il souhaiterait faire parler les morts, les faire revenir pour de vrai et pas simplement dans ses rves o ils sont  ct de lui et pourtant si lointains et absents. L'oubli et la disparition causent en lui un sentiment d'irralit. Perd-on son identit si on est oubli	2005-06-29
US	36232108	R2FUGPYU13CJYJ	0142437301	512173793	The Power and the Glory (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A classic novel of the 20th century	In this novel, Mr Greene portrays various characters in an unnamed southern province of Mexico at the time when the Red Shirts - a Communist party - have taken control. It is well known however that these events took place under Presiedent Calles, elected in 1924, and the infamous atheist Governor of Tabasco, Garrido Canabal. <br />The central figure of the novel is a nameless priest, a so-called \\"whisky priest\\" since this spirit was used during illegal Masses due to the lack of wine. Furthermore, the name attests for a drinking habit with most illegal priests in this tropical, crooked and anti-clerical part of Mexico. The story-line is a succession of harrowing scenes as the haunted priest tries to keep conducting his Masses but the most ironical and corrosive scene is the one in which he must watch a half-caste mestizo, a fiercely anti-clerical lieutenant and a corrupt chief of police drink up a bottle of wine he had bought with his last money for sacramental use. <br />Graham Greene's sympathy with the poor in spirit and the world's losers is obvious. The whisky priest's descent into illegality and darkness and his simultaneous ascent in martyrdom are spectacular because they so dominate the plot - all other characters have an insignificant importance except that of the lieutenant. The priest's existence seems particularly dogged and doomed not only because of the illegality of his clerical activities but also because he is an alcoholic and has an illegitimate daughter. But clearly the author distinguishes between man and function and this also applies to Father Jos, a debased priest compelled by the authorities and his own cowardice to marry - a figure of ridicule even to the children of the town. <br />Finally it is worth mentioning the author's brilliantly built and abrupt scenes and artfully lit images which have a cinematic touch of surreal reminiscent of pictures by Luis Bunuel.	2005-06-23
US	36232108	R2NUDIXM5LMNEH	0151010919	475576302	He Who Fears the Wolf (Inspector Sejer Mysteries)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	A good psychological thriller	In Mrs Fossum's psychological thriller, the main character is a schizophrenic man of 24 called Errki Johrma. He has narrow shoulders and surprisingly wide hips and because he inherited bad hip joints, he moves about with a hideous swing as if he wants to shake off something on his back. His skin is scarred with acne, his eyes deep-set and strange, often downcast, avoiding other people's glance. He wears filthy, smelly and disgusting clothes and the words on his T-shirt read \\"Kill The Others\\". <br />He sees the world through a sort of murky veil, always afraid that others are after him, that every single person is his enemy and that is why he has no friends at all and hardly talks to anyone. He often conducts imaginary inner dialogues with a hallucinatory figure called \\"Nestor\\". Most people find him so repulsive that they compare him with an animal, finding that his eyes resemble those of a dog or that he runs like a hare. <br />One day, a boy called Kannick Snellingen finds the dead body of Haldis Horn lying on the steps of her small farm in Finnemarka. He also reports to the police that he has seen Errki Johrma in the woods not far from the farm. And indeed Inspector Sejer soon finds out that Errki has been missing from the asylum for some time... <br />Mrs Fossum designed a clever plot in this mystery story and her portrayal of the schizophrenic mind will indeed regale readers interested in psychology in the same manner as Ruth Rendell's books do.	2005-06-22
US	36232108	R2O6C306PMC242	0312330529	649794517	Shantaram: A Novel	Books	5	27	32	N	N	An epic novel set in India	Mr Roberts's voluminous novel tells the story of one narrator who escaped from prison in Australia and travelled to Bombay on a false New Zealand passport. He doesn't devote much time talking about his criminal activities in his home country apart from stating that he used to rob banks and deal in drugs and then chose to abandon his wife and children for the life of a fugitive. Upon his arrival in the Indian capital, he met Prabaker Kharre, a loveable character who showed him round the city, particularly the areas rarely visited by mainstream tourists. At Leopold's, a bar where illegal business is conducted by many Indians and a few foreigners, the narrator was introduced to Karla Saaranen, a beautiful woman who is often the object of his thoughts throughout the novel due to the difficulty she has in feeling love for anyone. <br />As he settled down in Bombay, he learned to speak Marathi and Hindi and during the adventurous years he spent in the city he became acquainted with a whole array of characters and he became to be known as Lin, Linbaba or Shantaram. The most impressive passages in the novel are the narrator's visit to Prabaker's native village of Sunder, his work in the zhopadpatti slum, his experience with the monsoon and the cholera, his work for Abdel Khader Khan and the Bombay Mafia, his stays at the Arthur Road Prison and the Colaba lock-up and finally his fight for the mujaheddin cause in the mountains of Afghanistan. <br />Mr Roberts wonderfully shows both the generosity and the violence of the Indian people's character. The spirit of Bombay is rendered in splendid descriptions so that altogether this novel is thoroughly enjoyable to read.	2005-06-21
US	36232108	R26IIK3AMY6QL5	1582345171	487963041	The Ninth Life of Louis Drax	Books	3	5	7	N	N	An entertaining family mystery	Louis Drax is an intelligent and articulate 9 year old child but he has difficulty distinguishing fact from fiction, a \\"reality problem\\" as it is described by his psychologist Marcel Perez. Louis and his parents Pierre and Nathalie decide to go on a picnic in the Auvergne one April afternoon. But a row occurs between Pierre and Nathalie because the former considers that Louis is allowed to consume too many sweets. Subsequently, Pierre accuses Nathalie of badly educating their son and menaces to take him to Paris to his mother's. The boy runs away and is chased by his father when he suddenly falls into a ravine. With the help of the gendarmes, Louis is found dead and there is no trace of his father. Two hours later the boy and his distraught mother are brought to Vichy General Hospital, Louis miraculously comes back to life but remains comatose in Dr Philippe Meunier's ward. After that he is transferred to the Clinique de l'Horizon in Provence and placed in the hands of neurologist Dr Pascal Dannachet who specialises in PVS patients (Persistent Vegetative State). <br />Soon Pascal is puzzled by the circumstances of Louis's accident. Not only because his mother is the only witness but also because she now claims that Louis didn't fall into the ravine but was pushed by his father, an alcoholic pilot with Air France. Then two menacing letters are sent to both Nathalie and Pierre in a childish handwriting and signed \\"Louis\\". How could a comatose child write these letters, let alone post them? Is it a trick played by his father Pierre? But this possibility is soon ruled out when Pierre's body is found by a group of speleologists in a cave not far from Louis's accident. <br />A fine mystery story in which Mrs Jensen shows that a mother's feelings for her son can be ambivalent, swaying between love and hatred, perhaps because a son is never quite like a mother wishes him to be.	2005-06-08
US	36232108	R20H13CFZSLMPB	067974567X	964580371	The Boy Who Followed Ripley	Books	1	3	7	N	N	The weakest in the Ripley series	One day in Villeperce, Tom Ripley is followed by an American teen-aged boy of 16 who calls himself Billy Rollins. He is currently working as a gardener with Madame Jeanne Boutin and claims to have read about Tom Ripley in the newspapers in the States. But Tom soon discovers that the boy is in fact Frank Pierson, the son of an American food magnate from Maine, who detested his father so profoundly that he killed him by pushing his wheelchair over the top of a cliff. Frank's mother Lily sent a private detective to France to look for the missing son... <br />A weak story line, unbelievable situations, characters who behave in a ridiculous fashion and plenty of clichs about Germany, Berlin and the gay scene are all aspects which contribute to the bad quality of this poorly designed suspense story. Neither \\"The Boy Who Followed Ripley\\" nor \\"Ripley Underground\\" nor \\"Ripley Underwater\\" match the original \\"The Talented Mr Ripley\\". Readers would be well advised to enjoy the latter and then forget any novel bearing the name \\"Ripley\\". <br />	2005-06-07
US	36232108	R1KWQ16N57KLP4	0679736301	353322797	Spider	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A harrowing novel	In \\"Spider\\", Mr McGrath tells the harrowing story of a schizophrenic character called Dennis Cleg. He suffers from hallucinations - visual, auditory and olfactory - and from body delusions, he is physically regressed and has ideas of persecution. At the beginning of the novel, set in 1957, he lives in a shabby house along with other tenants, a \\"cargo of dead souls\\" as he calls the place, the landlady of which is a matronly figure, Mrs Wilkinson, who terrifies Cleg. As the story unfolds, the reader gets to know the circumstances which brought Cleg to live in this grimy place where \\"desolation prevails\\", in an area of London resembling \\"a clotted web of dark compartments.\\" He feels that he would relish his solitude and memories were he not so easily thrown into turmoil by the latter. His existence is loveless, monotonous and grey as he often drifts further and further into the back parts of his mind where the reader follows him and tries to discern reality from delusion. A man like Cleg constantly lives in isolation, he has no friends, doesn't want any, doesn't like any. How could he, being permanently nagged by the certainty that others can destroy him with just a glance? From early childhood, being seen created in Cleg a deep sense of unease and he recalls imagining being \\"a coal-black boy who could move through darkness without being seen.\\" Even years later \\"the misting and blurring of the visible world gave such comfort to the boy, and to the creature I have since become.\\" Another reason for Cleg avoiding people is the frightening prospect of their thoughts invading his mind. \\"If I'm not careful these thought patterns of theirs crowd out my own, and I can't have that, I can't have other people's thoughts in my head.\\" <br />Apart from a brilliant psychological portrait of the schizophrenic mind, \\"Spider\\" is designed almost like a detective story in which the reader slowly discovers what happened to Cleg in his childhood, the time he spent in a mental institution and the subsequent years at Mrs Wilkinson's house. Highly recommended.	2005-06-07
US	36232108	R18GSFYMU55BQ4	3492203205	156485389	Der Leopard (German Language Edition) (German Edition)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A novel for all time	The plot in \\"The Leopard\\" spans some 50 years, from 1869 to 1910. The novel opens when the Bourbon sates of Naples and Sicily, called the kingdom of the Tow Sicilies, is about to end and the Italian peninsula is to become one state again for the first time since the fall of the Roman Empire. The first chapter is set in May 1860 precisely when Garibaldi arrives in Sicily from Genoa. The \\"Garibaldini\\" land in Marsala and within two weeks occupy the capital, Palermo. Gathering more volunteers, Garibaldi crosses to the mainland and defeats the Bourbon troops on the Volturno. Subsequently Garibaldi hands over southern Italy to King Victor Emmanuel and every state in the peninsula agrees to join the new united kingdom via plebiscites. Finally the revolutionary actions of the Risorgimento - the movement for unification - are ended by the Italian government troops and Rome is declared as capital of Italy in 1870.<br /><br />It is against this historical background that the reader follows the life of Fabrizio Corbera, Prince of Salina, a Sicilian aristocrat who watches impassively the ruin of his own class and his own inheritance. He is no less abated by the decline of his own prestige than the numerous prancing bewhiskered stone leopards adorning his palaces. One follows his worries about daughters, dowries, political careers and religious intrigues. He submits to endless little subterfuges, he the leopard who used to sweep away effortlessly difficulties with the wave of his paw. Don Fabrizio is surrounded by a multitude of hilariously grotesque characters with whom the author casts an amused but bitter glance at the Sicilian mentality. \\"The Sicilians never want to improve for the simple reason that they think themselves perfect; their vanity is stronger than their misery; every invasion by outsiders, whether so by origin, if Sicilian, by independence of spirit, upsets their illusion of achieved perfection, risks disturbing their satisfied waiting for nothing; having been trampled on by a dozen different peoples, they consider they have an imperial past which gives them a right to a grand funeral.\\"<br /><br />Giuseppe di Lampedusa painstakingly meditated for twenty-five years over his novel. He was sixty before he finally wrote it and he completed it a few months before his death in 1957. He was then told by an Italian editor that his novel is unpublishable!ed on by a dozen different peoples, they consider they have an imperial past which gives them a right to a grand funeral.\\" <br />Giuseppe di Lampedusa painstakingly meditated for twenty-five years over his novel. He was sixty before he finally wrote it and he completed it a few months before his death in 1957. He was then told by an Italian editor that his novel is unpublishable!	2005-06-01
US	36232108	RHP66DEJE3H8K	0375701494	160007841	Old School	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An homage to the power of literature	In this delightful novel, Mr Wolff tells the story of a boy called Lambert attending an elite prep school in New England in the 1960s. At that establishment, it is the tradition that one pupil should be granted a private audience with a visiting author provided that a piece of his or her own work wins the competition. The winner is chosen by the author and the pupil's work is then published in the school newspaper. When the visit of Ernest Hemingway is announced, Lambert struggles along with his competitors George Kellog, Bill White and Jeff Purcell to win the honour of meeting the famous writer in private. Unfortunately Lambert chooses a not quite honest way of winning the competition which results in his being expelled from school. <br />Apart from the plot which magnificently describes life at school at that time, Mr Wolff poses interesting questions. What is an author? How does the desire to create arise? How many of those who have literary ambitions will eventually succeed? How can an aspiring writer fight the writer's block? The author also shows that the topics of truth and fiction and of honesty and delusion are  slippery ones. One wonders indeed if it is possible to tell the truth in writing and if, in art in general, there is any truth at all. In this sense, the main character in \\"Old School\\" is perhaps not Lambert but literature itself. One quality this novel certainly possesses is stylistic restraint with every sentence having a rare and high precision.	2005-05-25
US	36232108	R10MGP3WK5CCA4	0743415256	20428317	Blind Eye	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A fast paced thriller	Captain Cameron and his crew are manoeuvring the \\"Indomitable\\", a British carrier, off the coast of Numala. In the capital Kindalu, Nathan Nabote, a throwback of an old-style African dictator, in absolute power since 1969, is eyeing discontentedly on the upcoming presidential election. Despite Nabote's reluctance, the EU sent an observer mission and the carrier \\"Indomitable\\" is part of the scheme to monitor that the election takes place in a democratic manner. <br />The question is of course will Nabote let the election be fair and will he give his opponent, Michael Endebbe, a chance to win? Or will the Presidential Guard, a formidable army and totally loyal to Nabote, try to stop the democratic process in Numala? <br />As Michael Endebbe is kidnapped and tortured a few days before the election is due to commence, the crew of the \\"Indomitable\\" sense that their task is going to be an almost \\"mission impossible\\".	2005-05-19
US	36232108	R1CRPFOZMV029O	0415198186	475009351	Sel Wks Rd Laing:Divid Self V1 (Selected Works of R.D. Laing, 1) (Volume 3)	Books	5	53	54	N	N	An existential approach to the conception of the self	In this valuable study, Dr Laing proposes to examine the way some individuals are very proficient in acquiring a false self in order to adapt to false realities and to give an account of specifically personal forms of depersonalisation and disintegration. It is no small task for the therapist to articulate what the patient's \\"world\\" is and his way of being in it in order to outline his psychopathology. The author states that if we look at his actions as signs of a disease, we impose categories of thoughts on the patient in our effort to try to explain his mental state and it isn't easy for the therapist to transpose himself into the patient's strange and alien view of world in order to understand his existential position. <br />Dr Laing states that many patients suffer from \\"ontological insecurity\\" because they feel insubstantial, the ordinary circumstances of life constituting a continual threat to their own existence. He mentions personalities like Franz Kafka, Samuel Beckett and Francis Bacon. Then Dr Laing proceeds by giving the account of three forms of anxiety encountered by the ontologically insecure subject: engulfment, implosion and petrification. To illustrate these three forms, the author describes the case of Mrs R. who suffered from agoraphobia and schizohphrenic withdrawal. <br />Interestingly enough, the schizoid individual constantly feels vulnerable as he is exposed by the look of another person and that is why he fears live dialectical relationships with live people and prefers to relate himself to depersonalised persons or to phantoms of his own fantasies, thus the distinction between the \\"embodied\\" and \\"unembodied\\" self. Such an individual is afraid of the world, frightened that any impingement will be total and engulfing. He is afraid of letting himself \\"go\\", of coming out of himself or of losing himself because he feels that he will be depleted, exhausted, emptied, robbed or sucked dry. So for the schizoid individual, direct participation in life is felt as being at a risk of being destroyed by life. One aspect of this individual's ontological insecurity is the precariousness of his subjective sense of his own aliveness and the sense that others threaten this tentative feeling. The schizoid individual strongly believes in his own destructiveness by others. This view is in accord to the existentialist's philosophy represented by Jean-Paul Sartre who stated in his famous theatre play \\"Huis Clos\\" that \\"L'enfer, c'est les autres.\\" <br />Thus a false self can arise in the individual which is in compliance with the intentions and expectations of the other or with what are imagined to be the other's intentions or expectations. Indeed, the self-conscious person feels he is more the object of other people's interest than in fact he is. And so the schizoid individual carries out defences like being like everyone else, being someone other than oneself, playing a part, being nobody or being incognito and anonymous. So if the gaze of others is experienced as a threat, there is a constant dread and resentment at being turned into someone else's thing (what Sartre called \\"l'tre-pour-autrui\\"), of being penetrated by him, and a sense of being in someone else's power and control. Freedom then consists in being inaccessible. Love too for schizoid individuals is viewed as disguised persecution since it aims to turn him into an object of the other. <br />This type of individual can be himself in safety only in isolation. With others he plays an elaborate game of pretence and his social life is felt to be false and futile. But the more he keeps his \\"true self\\" concealed and unseen, the more he presents to others a false front and the more compulsive this fake presentation of himself becomes. This can lead to a complete disintegration of the personality.	2005-05-18
US	36232108	R27NO8I4930KPJ	0385264704	320747623	Sugar Street (The Cairo Trilogy, Vol. 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Third part of "The Cairo Trilogy"	In the third part of \\"The Cairo Trilogy\\", life of the Abd al-Jawad family goes on. Amina's body now withered, her hair white, ill health and grief having altered her considerably. Her diligence and her capacity for running the household are now gone. She no longer pays attention to her home except for the services to her husband al-Sayyid Ahmad, once a vigorous man in full swing. He now suffers from high blood pressure and he had to give up many of the pleasures of life - drinks, women and good food. In fact, many months before dying, he is completely bedridden, a particularly humiliating situation for a man with such a strong ego. <br />Here Mr Mahfouz casts a compassionate glance at the irony of life which makes elderly people become utterly dependant on others, as they used to be when they were infants. For Kamal, now thirty-six, it is sad to see his family age, all the more since he refuses to get married and thus spends a lot of time aloof and lonely. Aiming at becoming a true intellectual, Kamal often collides with doubt and struggles with instincts and passions and is becoming \\"an emotionally crippled recluse\\". He often broods about his youth, his love for Ada and the eternal loss of the enchanting past. <br />But there are also reasons to rejoice as the younger generation takes over and ascends in society. Marriages take place, careers are planned. Mr Mahfouz splendidly portrays this cycle of life in which the old generation gives way to the boisterous and cheerful young one. This is shown in the moving final scene when Kamal and his brother Yasin enter a store where the former buys several items for his daughter's baby while the latter buys a black necktie he will need when the mournful day of his mother's death arrives...	2005-05-11
US	36232108	R4Y19SPPHFNW4	0385264682	752216879	Palace of Desire: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 2 (Cairo Trilogy II)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Second part of "The Cairo Trilogy"	In the second volume of \\"The Cairo Trilogy\\", we follow the progress of Al-Sayyid Ahmad Abd al-Jawad's family after the death of Fahmy in a riot against the British. After more than one year, Al-Sayyid Ahmad resumes his visits to Jalila and Zubayda. The later is to become his private mistress on a houseboat on the Nile and later Yasin's wife! Kamal is now seventeen and to Al-Sayyid Ahmad's disappointment he intends to enrol at the Teachers College. His father would wish him to become a civil servant or an engineer but Kamal is more interested in literature and philosophy. He is indeed becoming an adult and his relation with his mother Amina is changing. He feels that he has nothing much to tell her except \\"meaningless chatter\\". Another disappointment for Kamal is his love for Ada who never quite reciprocates his feelings for her. <br />What makes the second volume interesting is the evolution of the Egyptian society, the rules of which begin to relax as the country inexorably adopts more Western values. These values are difficult to accept for conservative people like those of Al-Sayyid Ahmad's generation. It appears that the family values suffer most from such a modernisation and in this respect Yasin is a good example with his three marriages. Like in the first volume, the reader can expect the highest literary standards in \\"Palace Of Desire\\" by one of the greatest writers of the 20th century. <br />	2005-05-09
US	36232108	R1R3JIZ2YFRWE9	0060928514	566760187	Lying on the Couch: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Captivating psychological thriller	The opening chapter of Dr. Yalom's psychological thriller introduces Dr. Ernest Lash, a young psychotherapist working in San Francisco, who has to deal with the case of Seymour Trotter, a 71-year-old colleague and former president of the American Psychiatric Association who is charged with sexual misconduct with a 32-year-old female patient. As Dr. Trotter recounts the events which lead to his being sentenced, one becomes aware of how deeply a patient can become involved both with his therapy and his therapist - it is no exaggeration to use the word obsession - so that the analyst is elevated to the figure of a deity and is blindly worshiped by the analysand. <br />Then Dr Yalom introduces a set of characters whose paths cross at one point or another in the novel as the very skilfully woven plot unfolds. There is Justin who's been trapped in an impossible marriage for years and decides one day, out of the blue, to leave his wife Carol for another woman, having unexpectedly regained his self-confidence. Carol on her part holds Dr. Ernest Lash responsible for Justin's transformation and she decides to take revenge and to become Ernest's patient in order to seduce him and then to sue him for malpractice. But Ernest remains indomitable and Carolyn's - alias Carol's - vain sexual advances give rise to hilarious scenes. <br />Dr Marshal Streider, Ernest's supervisor, helps to cure Shelly Merriman who can't prevent revealing his hand of cards on his face. Later, Marshal is involved in a fraud by a short-term \\"patient\\" in which he manages to lose first $ 90 000 and then another $ 24 000 in a \\"twice-bit gig\\" by the same man! <br />Readers interested in psychology and psychoanalysis will enjoy this very meticulously designed story line with plenty of humour.	2005-05-07
US	36232108	R3KWC1CB9ZHP03	0747277958	294521376	The Jump	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Don't jump on this one...	Gorgio Brunos has to spend eighteen years at Parkhurst prison after being charged of conspiracy to murder during a robbery in Essex where a security man died. As his wife Donna plans to break him out of prison - hence the title of the novel - she is about to discover Gorgio's criminal activities, dealing, among other things, in child pornography. <br />A very lengthy plot with banal ingredients - drugs, crime, sex.	2005-05-07
US	36232108	R1805O76T5VH9X	0553212621	182408519	Lady Chatterley's Lover (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A literary classic of the 20th century	Constance Chatterley, a beautiful and passionate woman, is deeply unhappy in her marriage to Sir Clifford Chatterley who became an invalid after having been injured in the First World War. His physical condition is mirrored in Constance's emotional paralysis. When she meets the gamekeeper Mellors, she finds refuge in his arms and feels regenerated. Together they shield themselves from the chaos of the outer world and move to the sanctum of the inner world of fulfilment. <br />The character of Constance is an interesting one because there is a certain complexity in her: she is both in touch with nature, yet educated; sensitive, yet wise; female in her sensitivity, yet almost male in her strength and attitude. She is a woman with a social position who is drawn to an outsider of a lower class. The structure of the novel is also interesting because it shows three stages in Constance's relationship with her husband and Mellors. In the first phase, she denies her husband, responding to a failed marriage, she finds refuge with Mellors. Then begins the second stage when Constance regenerates in the peaceful world of her lover's hut. Finally in the third stage, she escapes the world of Wragby Hall as she leaves for a holiday to Venice. There she takes the resolution never to return to Clifford's world. This resolution is taken all the more easily by Constance because being away from Wragby Hall she can reconsider her commitment to Mellors while their relationship is gradually exposed as a scandal which really prevents her from returning to her husband. Then the novel's central struggle shifts from that between a Lady and a gamekeeper to that between Constance's and Mellor's commitment to each other and the forces hostile to their relationship. <br />Constance's transformations occur in an set of tensions and an artistic dualism: tenderness against apathy, nature against culture, wood against stone, flesh against intellect, frankness against manipulation or fertility againststerility. These tensions strongly mark the first phase of the novel where Wragby Hall symbolises sterility and spiritual and emotional apathy, will and intellectual control; the hut symbolises the free play of the instinct and sensual pleasure, the haven of tenderness. The two worlds cannot interact: Clifford intrudes into nature with his mechanical wheelchair as much as Mellors is an intruder and outsider inside Wragby Hall. Perhaps the most striking opposition is that between silence and talk. As Constance and Mellors retreat into the sheltered world of the hut, the author insists on the stillness and the silence of the place, focuses on the internal and emotional feelings since both characters are fugitives from \\"the outer world of chaos.\\" That's why enclosures are so present in the novel: the hut, the clearing, the cottage, an enclosed yard, a bedroom, as many shelters from psychological suffering. Mellors is \\"afraid of society\\" whereas Constance recoils from the \\"insanity of the whole civilised species.\\" They both linger in pure silence, even anonymity since they hardly ever call each other by name. <br />D.H. Lawrence's critics have deplored the numerous love making scenes in which Constance and Mellors induldge and which are described in a surprisingly open language, considering the epoch in which the novel was published. But these scenes show how Constance is \\"reborn\\", how sex is the act that most completely unites a man and a woman and its power of renewal is attuned to day, season or year - it is in this novel the most regenerative experience possible. There is indeed strong hope that John Thomas will be reunited with lady Jane in the future! In this sense, \\"Lady Chatterley's Lover\\" ranks among the 20th century most extraordinary achievements.	2005-04-28
US	36232108	R3JENSRV38MVBO	0618485228	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A moving tale of identity	In her touching tale, Mrs Lahiri tells the story of an Indian family living in the United States. The novel opens with the birth of Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli's son in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1968. Then the author relates in detail how Ashoke and Ashima marry in Calcutta without having met even once before. After the wedding, Ashoke is offered a position as a doctoral candidate in electrical engineering at MIT and moves to Cambridge, followed some time later by his wife Ashima. Since it is the tradition in Bengal that the grandmother determines her grandson's Christian name, she sends a letter from Calcuta to Cambridge but the letter never arrives and so the reader learns how the main character in the novel comes to bear the name of Gogol. <br />It is interesting to see how the first generation emigrants feel completely out of place in their new environment, constantly longing to return to their country. But as their children grow up, they gradually adapt to American customs, startled by the fact that their offspring feel much closer to the culture they are being brought up in rather that to their parents' original civilisation. After Ashoke's death, more than thirty years later, as Ashima is about to sell her house and return to Calcutta, her conception of \\"home\\" has naturally shifted and she actually feels like going to a foreign place. <br />A moving first novel in which Mrs Lahiri describes in a compassionate, tender and human way a small family making the voyage between Asia and America.	2005-04-28
US	36232108	R39RZAZSDR8J3Y	033028813X	567232062	Terminal	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An entertaining adventure	Nancy Kennedy is worried about her grandfather Jessie because he suffers from leukaemia. Curiously enough, Jessie's records and blood samples got lost in a fire when his doctor, Dr Buhler, had a car accident. Subsequently, Jessie was moved from Tucson Medical Centre to the Berne clinic in Thun, Switzerland, where patients are given a new chance at life thanks to a revolutionary formula called \\"cellular rejuvenation\\". Puzzled by such proceedings, Nancy and her British friend Bob Newman, a journalist, decide to travel to Thun to pay a visit to Professor Armand Grange, head of the Berne clinic, to persuade him to let them see and talk to Jessie. <br />To their astonishment, the clinic is guarded by uniformed armed men and Doberman watchdogs so that it resembles more a fortress than a hospital. Bob manages to distract Dr Novak's attention for a few minutes and Jessie confesses to Linda that a strange experiment is being carried out at the clinic and that some patients do not survive the experiment. <br />On their way back to Berne, Bob and Linda nearly crash into a snowplough which suddenly emerges from nowhere in front of their car. Does someone want to kill them? What is really going on at the Berne clinic? The quest for the truth is going to be quite an adventure for Bob and Linda.	2005-04-21
US	36232108	R26BNW85B3CCV9	0816139202	965052502	Out of the blackout (A Nightingale mystery in large print)	Books	3	6	13	N	N	An oddly affecting tale	Mr Barnard's novel is set in England in 1941. For reasons of security, many children from London were evacuated to new homes in the countryside during the war. One day, a group of twenty children arrives at Yeasdon Station and among them there is an unlisted Simon Thorn instead of a certain Terence Stope. After much discussing and reflecting, Simon is taken to the Cutheridge family who adopt him so that at the age of eighteen, Cutheridge becomes Simon's official last name. <br />Some years later, after having studied zoology at Oxford university, Simon returns to London and he is determined to find out the truth about his origins. After much painstaking research and with the help of birth announcements in newspapers and a large portion of luck, Simon focuses his attention on a Leonard Simmeter of 25 Miswell Terrace, EC1, London. <br />So the door to a re-discovery suddenly opens for Simon and will eventually lead him to unravel a vicious crime that had never been detected.	2005-04-21
US	36232108	R1BWQWWPNQWQIO	0002224747	781902917	Death of a Supertanker	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A good sea story	The deck of the \\"Ocean Mammoth\\" stretches nearly a fifth of a mile from bridge to bows; its superstructure rises above the water-line to a height of a ten storey building; loaded it displaces 320,000 tons; it is among the latest and finest of the monster tankers that swarm in ever increasing numbers across the oceans; yet in a time of falling freight rates and dwindling cargoes it has no useful part to play. It has to die. But the death of a supertanker is not easily contrived if it has to appear as an accident. The conspiracy to take \\"Ocean Mammoth\\" to her doom involves meticulous planning and ruthless execution. <br />But even then the story is far from over, for who is responsible? The formidable and withdrawn Captain Crutchley, whose secret disability nags incessantly at his security? Freeman Jarrett, the flamboyantly handsome chief officer, driven by restless ambition and boundless conceit? Foley, the capable but colourless navigating officer, striving to hold a wife too attractive and extravagant for his peace of mind? Or is it someone else? Some other crewman who had access to the complex electronic systems upon which the supertanker's safety depends? <br />These questions remain unanswered until the final stages of the Court of Enquiry, when the truth emerges in a moment of sudden drama...	2005-04-20
US	36232108	R1A95XLI9KZBKB	0060955511	949556910	Brave New World Revisited (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Revisiting "Brave New World"	In his study, Mr Huxley discusses some of the ideas and observations which inspired him for his futuristic novel \\"Brave New World\\". Among the main topics, overpopulation of some parts of the world was a major concern for the author. The rapidly increasing number of people in relation to limited natural resources may lead to social instability and jeopardise the well being of individuals. There is a correlation between people multiplying too rapidly and the rise of totalitarian systems of government. Then the author discusses the issue of what should be undertaken with congenially or mentally insufficient organisms which are the result of unfavourable mutations. Should they be allowed to \\"contaminate\\" the genetic pool from which the members of our species will have to draw?<br /><br />Another problem of modern societies is the fact that the dehumanising effects of their over-organisation, especially in cities, may lead to a high incidence of schizophrenia. In \\"Brave New World\\" we see a society where people are never alone. This tendency can already be observed today as William Whyte rightly observes in \\"The Organisation Man\\". Concepts like \\"socially oriented behaviour, team work, group dynamics, acquisition of social skills\\" are very trendy nowadays.<br /><br />Other topics are discussed by Mr Huxley such as the concentration of communication-power in the hands of a few big concerns, the danger of people assembled in large crowds who then cease to have any judgement or will of their own - overwhelmed as they are by simplistic slogans - the question of children being conditioned by advertising from a very early age to buying specific products, the problems caused by widely available drugs such as \\"soma\\" and the effectiveness of subliminal projections and hypnopaedia.<br /><br />An altogether interesting read which allows a better understanding of Mr Huxley's \\"Brave New World\\".	2005-03-16
US	36232108	R3T4DNHS2SJ94P	1857151380	636379181	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler (Everyman's Library Classics)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Confusing but not without interest	Has the book you're holding really been written by the author mentioned on the cover? We readers rarely ask ourselves this question but in Mr Calvino's novel, even this simple assumption is questioned. The story is quite confusing indeed because nothing is as it appears. <br />But apart from the plot, Mr Calvino reflects on interesting topics which in my view save the book. For instance the reader's dilemma of choosing the appropriate novel among the thousand existing publications, the required ingredients to create suspense in a plot, the fact that books are easily defined entities which can be enjoyed without risks compared to the elusive quality of real-life existence, the pleasure of using a paper knife as the reader cuts his way through a novel or the problem posed by someone reading a text which may impose an undesirable pace on the listener. The author also casts a critical glance at universities as literary institutions which have forgotten that literature can be enjoyed in a natural, innocent and primitive way without having to be lacerated by intellectual analysis.	2005-03-16
US	36232108	RUN0M0BHWM1SB	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic tale of the 20th century	In this widely read novel, Mr Huxley portrays a world as it could be far in the future. The World Controllers have created the perfect society with strict regulations ensuring that human beings lead an ideal and happy life. Through the use of genetic engineering, brainwashing, sex end the \\"soma\\" drug, all the members of this utopian society are happy consumers. Yet some very few people have a pressing urge to question the whole system. Bernard Marx for instance can't help having a feeling of discontent, harbouring a desire for solitude and a distaste for the pleasures of promiscuity. He has a longing to break free. Perhaps a visit to one of the remaining Savage Reservations where the old and imperfect life has been preserved will be the cure for Bernard's distress.<br /><br />In the same vein, readers may enjoy H.G. Wells's \\"Nineteen Eighty-Four\\" or Ray Bradbury's \\"Fahrenheit 451\\".	2005-03-16
US	36232108	RVEVHK0JKL7EI	072785920X	987726667	The Ice Mask	Books	3	0	1	N	N	An entertaining adventure at sea	Nicholas Allan (Nick), the narrator, tells the story of his friend Guy Edwards. Guy, a successful seaman, lived for fifteen years with Karen, a producer for BBC radio. Guy possessed a thirty-eight foot yacht named \\"Rolissa\\" and one day he undertook a solo voyage to Spitbergen in the Barents Sea. Before the voyage, Guy used to be a boastful and confident man, even defiant at times, courageous and determined at heart. But when he returned from Spitbergen, he was a changed man, as though he had been damaged by the experience. He was depressed, hardly talking to Karen, in fact rejected her with a strange finality. One evening, Karen found Guy dead in his office - he had shot himself. <br />As Karen and Nick embark on the \\"Rolissa\\" to retrace Guy's adventure in Norway one year later in order to understand what could possibly have transformed the man to such an extend, they are quite unaware of the terrifying adventure which lay ahead of them. <br />	2005-03-16
US	36232108	RXSG26NMMXDZ3	1400034809	113685429	Walking Into the Night	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A powerful achievement	Kristjan Benediktsson left Iceland and came to America during the Great War. In 1921, after living some time in New York and working as a waiter at the Waldorf-Astoria, he met the enormously wealthy press magnate William Randolph Hearst who offered him the position of butler at his extravagant castle in San Simeon, California. Although Heart is still married to his wife who lives on the East Coast with their five sons, he shares his life with Miss Davies, an ageing, depressed and alcoholic movie star. <br />As Kristjan undertakes to write numerous and never to be sent letters to his wife Elisabet in Iceland, the reader slowly discovers the man's tragic destiny. The contents of the letters partly explain the circumstances which lead Kristjan to marry Elisabet, to save her father's business and then to abandon both his shipping company and his family to flee to New York. What were his reasons? What did he seek in America and did he find what he was looking for? Why could Elisabet never find Kristjan despite her pathetic journey to New York with two of their four children? <br />Mr Olafsson masterfully depicts a desperate character who can never face the members of his family again because of the choices he made earlier in his life. It is interesting to compare \\"Walking Into The Night\\" with Kazuo Ishiguro's \\"The Remains Of The Day\\" because, although both novels convey a different atmosphere, they both show that certain vital decisions we take in our lives are irrevocable.	2005-03-10
US	36232108	R3SZNTGF3U5JZI	0143039008	37294671	Travels with My Aunt (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A triumphant comedy	Mr Greene's novel is the story of Henry Pulling, a 50 year old retired bank manager who lives a quiet life in Southwood, passionately looking after his dahlias. Henry meets his septuagenarian Aunt Augusta for the first time at what he supposes to be his mother's funeral. She quickly persuades him to abandon his monotonous suburban life to join her and travel her way. And so they make their way first to Brighton and later to Paris, Istanbul and Paraguay. Through her aunt Henry gets acquainted with a twilight society, hippies, war criminals and CIA agents. He learns to smoke pot and to smuggle large amounts of money from one country to the next. <br />The character of Aunt Augusta is very witty indeed: she is wicked, selfish, wildly engaging, an old \\"belle de nuit\\" who likes men \\"who have a bit of the hound in them\\", a quality her nephew obviously lacks, which adds to her bewilderment. It is a feminine character, Aunt Augusta, who takes charge of the story, a rare fact for Mr Greene. She becomes a fierce, bossy and intrusive mother figure for Henry. Indeed he ends up by understanding and calling her \\"mother\\" a few lines before the end of the novel as he lays his head on his aunt's breast, feeling like a boy again who has run away from school and will never have to return. Finally Henry is completely transformed by his aunt and, at 50, begins to blossom. He sees her differently and acknowledges that she is not as wicked as he first considered her. In a prison cell in Paraguay, Henry notes: \\"I would certainly have called her career shady myself nine months ago and yet now there seemed nothing so very wrong in her curriculum vitae, nothing as wrong as 30 years in a bank.\\"	2005-03-09
US	36232108	R2FEL3FYS3RCOJ	0671646575	772203017	Heat and Dust	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A taste of India	Olivia Rivers, married to Douglas, a civil servant in India, caused a scandal in 1923 in the small town of Satipur when she eloped with and Indian prince. In the 1970s, Olivia's step-granddaughter goes back to the heat and dust of Satipur to solve the mystery of the outrage caused by Olivia's flight. <br />Mrs Jhabvala's novel sounds like a warning. Both Olivia and the narrator do not seem to withstand India because they are fine and sensitive people who come to love the country very much, too much perhaps. Indeed there are many things to love in India: the landscapes, the history, the music and the physical beauty of men and women which may become a danger to the European. The characters in this novel are immersed by the Indian culture - and in Olivia's case, destroyed by it - they seem to be softened by an excess of feeling for India and finally they are dragged over to the other side. But according to Mrs Jhabvala's description of India - the smells, the sounds, the poverty, the filth, the beggars and cripples - it is difficult to imagine that Europeans can be as totally immersed in that culture as were both Olivia and the narrator. Is it plausible at all that such a foreign culture can be powerful enough to lead one to perdition?	2005-03-08
US	36232108	R30QSW2V3BQKU7	1844080684	195781121	Julius (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Rise and fall of an ambitious man	In her novel, Mrs du Maurier portrays the rise of Julius Lvy from a peasant boy brought up near Paris in the 1870s to a successful businessman in England in the 1920s. The plot lacks ambition and is slightly naive at times. Mrs du Maurier's ignorance of the French language is obvious in many instances - for example naming Julius's daughter \\"Gabriel\\" - and her attempts at depicting the matters of the spirit a failure, as the following quotation reveals: \\"Elsa, coughing her life away in the little bedroom next to him, was happy in the ignorance of death like a child who believes in God.\\" But if the reader would like to be reminded that ambition is one of the most awful human trait of character, he may find some interest in this novel.	2005-03-08
US	36232108	R3960JH2DX65TR	0375704914	61936832	A Demon in My View	Books	3	5	9	N	N	The mind of a psychopath	In this thriller, Mrs Rendell portrays a 50 year old psychopath called Arthur Johnson. He fits exactly the definition of a psychopathic person. He is asocial, self centred, impulsive and suffers from an acute anxiety nurosis. He has a strong need to preserve an immaculate ego, he is paranoiac, fears retribution and has an urgent need to be thought well by all people. And men like him cannot be reassured because their belief in their own worthlessness is so intense. Self-confidence cannot be implanted in Arthur anymore at the age of 50. That's why he fears other people - they represent a menace to his own integrity - and so he lives in private isolation. <br />Characteristically for a psychotic mind, Arthur is unable to form emotional relationships and he has no social ways of coping with his frustrations. This is certainly why Arthur keeps a plastic shop window model in his cellar. This model is dressed in his Auntie Gracie's clothes - for him she is the image of a mother, wife, counsellor, housekeeper and sole friend - which Arthur delights in \\"strangulating\\" regularly at night. <br />A very good thriller which shows that Mrs Rendell understands how a psychopathic mind works and how it can go awry.	2005-02-28
US	36232108	R3ND7ZGFHMA83A	0393323994	625683320	Red Dust: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Post Apartheid South Africa	Sarah Barcant is a successful young lawyer in New York who grew up in Smitrivier, South Africa. One day she gets a call from Ben Hoffman, a retired lawyer who used to be Sarah's professional mentor, asking her to come back to Smitrivier to take up a case. And so after fourteen years, Sarah returns to the town where she grew up to do Ben a favour because she thinks she owes him so much. A policeman, Pieter Muller, is suspected of having killed James Sizela's son Steve during the Apartheid. Muller's culpability has been a belief in Smitrivier for thirteen years, ever since Steve was arrested on Pieter Muller's orders and then disappeared. So now the Truth Commission is James's last chance to find his son's body and have him properly buried. The timing appears to be perfect since the Truth Commission is about to deal with the jailed policeman Dirk Hendricks who applied for amnesty for the torture of Alex Mpondo, now an MP in the South African government. The plan is to use Alex Mpondo's presence at the hearing to threaten Hendricks that unless he reveals Pieter Muller's complicity in the murder of Steve Sizela, he may not get his amnesty. But the search for the truth is going to be far more arduous than Sarah imagined - perhaps even an impossible task. <br />Mrs Slovo casts a merciless look at contemporary South Africa where heroism and perfidy are no longer distinct, where new truths are as painful as old lies, where torturers, once heroes, are now victims. An excellent novel which shows the absurd relationship between aggressors and victims and the power between the torturers and the tortured.	2005-02-28
US	36232108	R8ST9ZMSRQHKJ	1550416251	125882893	Read For Your Life: Literature as a Life Support System	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A study of the value of reading	Mr Gold adroitly and expertly advocates the necessity of reading in our lives. Actually he goes as far as claiming that reading is a biological necessity in the same way as eating is. Reading is thinking, imagining, understanding, feeling and healing. It is an activity that is far from an escape or an avoidance of reality because it provides the reader the necessary relief from the ad hoc reacting and chaos of socialising by taking care of us, leading us and letting us imagine alternative lives through the complex paths of experience and language. <br />In this sense reading truly is a therapeutic experience and Mr Gold gives numerous examples of patients he managed to cure by giving them novels to read because they are an experiential tool for re-seeing and reordering the reader's own confusing experience. Novels take on our confusion, they bear our burdens and leave us to see the larger picture we cannot see because they offer another perspective. <br />Reading being the most powerful and plentiful source of information, it isn't surprising that a vital element for the survival of any totalitarian regime is to take control of what people read because language is power. Authors like Aldus Huxley, George Orwell and above all Ray Bradbury have masterfully illustrated this point in their novels, the latter showing what happens to a civilisation in which television replaces literacy. People may still be able to read but they are what we may call \\"literary illiterates\\". <br />No doubt Mr Gold's message is clear: we have to read for the salvation of our spirit.	2005-02-28
US	36232108	R2QIK9U2JANZ4M	0345376730	437468041	The Dynamics of Creation	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A major psychological study	In his study, Dr Storr investigates the urge which drives artists to produce works of art. Interestingly enough, an author like George Simenon stated that \\"Writing is not a profession but a vocation of unhappiness.\\" For some artists, creating is a wish-fulfilment like for Frederik Rolfe who was a psychopathic personality and a paranoid and who was also querulous, egocentric, suspicious and misanthropic. Or James Bond, the character who was a wish-fulfilling fantasy of what Ian Flemming would like to have been. The desire for fame and honour is also a part of an artist's motivation. Some artists attach such enormous importance to their work that it can be considered as an addiction in which the creative activity is sometimes used as a defence. Many artists show a schizoid character: they are introverted, solitary people, preoccupied with inner rather than outer reality because they feel weak and vulnerable vis--vis others. Dr Storr mentions Franz Kafka, Charles Dickens, Bertrand Russel and Albert Einstein. Indeed, it is the capacity for extreme abstraction combined with a retention of contact with reality which makes creative achievement of a high order so remarkable.  Had Isaac Newton not been anxious, insecure, hypochondriacal and self-disparaging with paranoid tendencies making him live in near total seclusion, he may never have achieved what he did. <br />Some artists have a manic-depressive temperament and the opportunity to express themselves through art enables them to do so without the immediate need to fit in with the opinions of others. The artistic creation is thus an effective method of protecting the self from depression. <br />Other artists like Rossini, Stravinski or Henrik Ibsen were obsessional characters - disgusted with bodily functions, parsimonious and miserly - so that their creative work was characterised by meticulous and extreme tidiness which reflects their compulsive need to order and control. Detachment from the object - \\"physical distance\\" - is a necessary condition for both artists and scientists and the capacity for abstraction gives the artist a sense of mastery over that from which he detaches himself. <br />The fact that man carries with him throughout his life a discontent of the intrinsic frustration of his infancy leaves him with a \\"divine discontent\\" which may spur him on to creative achievement. The creative, especially those with a depressive psychopathology, readily identify themselves with others and they are very fearful of undue influence so that it is their very sensitivity to what others think which makes them avoid company. <br />Furthermore, Dr Storr examines the relationship between genius and madness, that between creativity and the quest for identity and finally the creation as an act of integration. A very erudite work and yet very pleasantly written so that it is perfectly accessible even to the layman in psychology.	2005-02-28
US	36232108	R9WHSBIED6IW3	0701109777	679434293	The Italian Girl	Books	5	28	30	N	N	A masterpiece	Edmund Narraway, an engraver, is the narrator in this stunning novel by Iris Murdoch. One day he returns to his family house in northern England for the funeral of his recently deceased mother Lydia. Otto, Edmund's brother, a stone mason, still lives in the house with his wife Isabel and daughter Flora, along with Maria Magistrelli - Maggie - the nurse whom both Otto and Edmund consider as their second \\"mother\\". She is the Italian girl who brought up the two boys since neither their father John - a \\"nonentity\\" - nor Lydia - an intensely mean woman - took any part in their upbringing. <br />Their childhood passed in an alternate frenzy of jealousy and of suffocation from their mother and Edmund feels that, although he didn't return to the house for many years, he never escaped from Lydia, that she got inside him, into the depth of his being and that there was no abyss and no darkness where she was not. And soon Edmund discovers that the remaining relatives still living in the old house are entangled in a web of deceit and false pretence. Flora is pregnant by David Levkin, Otto's apprentice, who is now having an affair with Isabel whereas Elsa, David's sister, is Otto's lover. Edmund quickly realises that his brother Otto, a violently tempered man, has become an alcoholic and he wonders whether he isn't himself rapidly becoming part of \\"the machine\\". Soon he feels agitated, exasperated and confused. He finds the whole situation \\"too scandalous, too outrageous\\". Edmund is constantly on the brink of leaving, not wanting \\"to be inside such a circle of hell\\". But due to his sympathy or weakness, he feels that his presence is needed by both his sister and his niece. But little does he know about the outcome of his stay at the old family house... <br />Mrs Murdoch has been compared to Tolstoy and Dostoyevski for her literary skills and certainly \\"The Italian Girl\\" proves her capacity to show that being in love provides joy but can turn otherwise decent individuals into monsters of cruelty and blindness.	2005-02-24
US	36232108	R31NJUCTNWBV35	0671890921	952648591	Closed Circle	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another suspenseful adventure by Mr Goddard	Mr Goddard's novel is set in England in 1931. Two \\"unprincipled adventurers who understand the value of nothing except money\\", Max Wingate and Guy Horton, are returning back to London from America where they used to deal in illegal activities for the past thirteen years. On board the \\"Empress of Britain\\" they are introduced to Diana Charnwood, daughter of Fabian Charnwood, head of Charnwood Investments. Since people like Max live by their wits and can never afford to relax completely, Wingate quickly becomes aware that \\"the man who wheedles his way into Diana Charnwood's affections wheedles his way into a fortune.\\" And indeed, shortly after having been introduced to Diana Charnwood, Max writes the following promissory note: \\"I hereby undertake to share equally with my good friend Guy Horton all financial proceeds, however and/or actual marriage I contract with Miss Diana Charnwood if and whenever it may occur.\\" Is this note going to be good luck charms or, as Guy soon comes to suspect, the omens of ill fortune? <br />As usual in Mr Goddard's novels, this splendidly old fashioned affair is full of thuggery, cross and double-cross, plot and counter-plot and the reader feels like being on a roller coaster with never ending twists and bends.	2005-02-19
US	36232108	R1EU2Y35JYWV6B	039575285X	160792367	The Page Turner	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Leave it...	Mr Leavitt's ridiculously shallow and hollow novel tries to portrait an eighteen year old man, Paul Porterfield, who aspires to become a great pianist because he worships Richard Kennington, a forty year old piano prodigy. But lacking in talent, Paul's destiny is to remain a page turner. <br />What is Mr Leavitt writing about? He only hints at the psychological aspect of Paul's broken ambition which, according to the title, is supposed to be the topic of this novel. If he wants to depict the attraction of an ageing man for a young boy of eighteen, Mr Leavitt should read Thomas Mann or Stefan Zweig, both authors being much more successful on this topic. The reader will be deeply disappointed by many fastidious passages - Paul walking \\"without underwear\\", a fruit seller with a basket from which \\"scarlet peppers spilled out in obscene abundance\\" - and by the numerous and tiring clichs like \\"in Rome there is always a nearby bar\\". Oh dear, oh dear... As the title of this review suggests, simply leave it.	2005-02-19
US	36232108	RI34QCDBNZZYV	0688033679	402148867	Rumours of rain: A novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A powerful novel	Mr Brink's novel is set during the last days preceding the violence which broke out in South Africa and brought the apartheid regime to an end. The time span in \\"Rumours of Rain\\" is exactly three days, starting from Friday and extending to Monday, an \\"apocalyptic\\" week end for Martin Mynhardt during which he is going to lose not only his farm but more importantly so his wife Elise, his daughter Ilse and his son Louis. What the nature of this loss is should not be disclosed here for the sake of those who haven't read the novel yet. But Mr Brink remarkably shows how a successful businessman - Martin is the chairman of the Mining Chamber of the Afrikaans Institute of Commerce, so he has, in his own words, \\"reached the top\\" - can irremediably ruin his relationship with his family and put his career at risk because of certain choices he made in the past. Mynhardt acknowledges this in the questions he asks at the last page of the novel: \\"Does one inevitably become the victim of one's own paradoxes in the end?\\" <br />As Martin drives to his farm with his son Louis - hardly any conversation is possible between son and father since Louis was sent to fight in Angola - to convince his mother to sell it, he recollects the many acquaintances he had, the love affairs, his professional success. Many questions are posed in the novel, particularly those concerning the political situation in South Africa during the apartheid. Can any changes be brought about peacefully? What should the position of the White man be after so many years of discrimination, oppression and humiliation imposed on the Black peoples? Should one approve of any violent forms of action through which one can prove one's solidarity with the oppressed masses? <br />\\"Rumours of Rain\\" is a very complex and powerful novel - the descriptions of townships like Soweto are literally breathtaking - like the continent in which it is set.	2005-02-15
US	36232108	R1ZXSIHVXJL8IY	0754017966	37371968	The Next Big Thing (Windsor Selection)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The expectancies of old age	Mrs Brookner portrays the character of Julius Herz, a 73 year old Jewish gentleman whose parents were exiles to London from Germany shortly before the end of the Second World War. His father - and later Julius himself - used to work in a shop in Edgware Road belonging to one ebullient Ostrovski. Julius's brother Freddy showed an early talent for the violin so his parents were intent on making a prodigal performer out of him at all cost and despite the fact that that he was \\"sick before and after every performance\\" since the audience always attended his recitals as \\"a phenomenon, a fairground spectacle.\\" Naturally the parents' disappointment was all the deeper when their \\"cherished prodigy\\" had to abandon his career as a violinist after a breakdown. <br />Now that Julius is the only remaining of what used to be a family of four, he reflects on his life as he tries to get accustomed to his new flat in Chiltern Street, all the more so since new initiatives are no longer within his reach. He feels that the routine of his empty days bring him no reward, most of his actions being eternally undertaken with a sigh. After divorcing his wife Josie Burns, Julius no longer even has the heart for solitary holidays. He likes spending his time alone, aware that in solitude nobody but himself can register his decline, unable to dislodge his melancholia and almost feeling compelled by destiny to live like a recluse. Yet he knows that a solitary way of life is the only one that suits his temperament and so the time for reflecting over his past is ample. And these recollections Julius sees as a \\"lifetime of repeated episodes of defeat\\" which he considers as the essence of his sentimental education, a permanent reminder that he wasted his life. <br />So for a man like Herz, is there going to be anything next but death, is there a next big thing to come? After closing the book, the reader may not know how to answer the question but perhaps this is beside the point because Mrs Brookner'sachievement lies in the way she captures the anxieties due to old age, to a world becoming increasingly more alien because of its modernity and to memories of a lifetime one wishes one had spent in a different manner.	2005-02-14
US	36232108	R1U6FIEP00NRHK	0449215016	961884379	Puppet on a Chain	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Suspenseful and entertaining	When Major Paul Sherman of the London Bureau of Interpol arrives at the Schiphol airport in Amsterdam, he is not greeted in a very smooth manner. Indeed, he is viciously struck in the solar plexus by the airline bag of a swarthy man in a black coat. As Sherman starts to investigate the death of Jimmy Duclos, he wonders why his presence in Holland is so undesirable, all the more since he quickly notices that he is being followed by the grey nondescript anonymity of a man. Skilfully reversing the roles, Sherman follows the mysterious man who leads him unawares to the warehouse of a company called \\"Morgenstern and Muggenthaler\\". After having succeeded to penetrate the warehouse, Sherman finds the astonishing array of thousands of puppets identical in shape and size and, more surprisingly so, row upon row of books entitled \\"The Gabriel Bible\\". But why does each volume of these Bibles have a hole that was smoothly scooped out of its centre so that it extends almost to the entire with of the book? And why do these Bibles have a fly-leaf with the printed inscription: \\"With the Compliments of the First Reformed Church of the American Huguenot Society\\"? Well, surely not an easy mystery to solve for Major Sherman...	2005-02-09
US	36232108	R29AM41WXZ2ZUT	0805067922	321580921	Dancer: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A riveting and moving novel	Mr McCann offers readers an astonishingly gripping biography of the Russian dancer Rudolph Nureyev written as a piece of fiction. It is not a biography in the classic sense of the term since real characters with true identities mingle with fictitious characters in episodes from the author's imagination. Nureyev's moody personality combined with his professionalism as a dancer are wonderfully captured by the author. By employing the technique of multiple narrators and skilfully interchanging between them - they are set in various locations in Russia, New York, France and England - Mr McCann has managed to produce the portrait of a vivid and many faceted artist with a tremendous charisma. Where most biographies tend to isolate and estrange its subject by pointing out its uniqueness, the author has achieved quite the opposite effect. Indeed, it often feels as if the reader were himself part of the dancer's exhilarating and thwarting lifestyle. It is the author's genius to transform carefully researched material into sparkling fiction on an artist whose fame, artistic accomplishment and shrewish, hedonistic, homosexual night life of 1970s New York are legendary.	2005-02-09
US	36232108	ROU98QFWO5IN0	0385264666	603947329	Palace Walk: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 1	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A tale of affection, humour and sensitivity	The first volume in Mr Mahfouz's trilogy - Bayn al-quasrayn is its original title in Arabic - is set in Cairo a few months before the beginning of the revolution that ultimately lead to the independence of Egypt from the British Rule on April 7, 1919 (incidentally the year Mr Mahfouz was born). This magnificent tale tells the story of the Abd al-Jawad family who live in Palace Walk. Ahmed Abd al-Jawad and his wife Amina have two daughters, Khadija and Aisha, and three sons: Yasin is a secretary at al-Nashin school and the son of his father's previous marriage to Haniya, Fahmy is a law student and Kamal, a 10 year old boy. <br />As the reader follows the joys, sorrows and temptations of each member of the Abd al-Jawad family, he discovers what life used to be like in Cairo at the beginning of the last century. Mr Mahfouz's prose is full of psychological insight, both cultural and social observations and the tale is told with great affection, humour and sensitivity. It is also worth praising William Maynard Hutchinsons's achievement as a translator in this edition.	2005-02-01
US	36232108	R2CQ4U2LGW1DF9	5551335097	911871651	Port Mungo	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A spellbinding narrative	In his novel, Mr McGrath tells the story of painter Jack Rathbone, a figure similar to the latter-day Paul Gauguin. The narrative is performed in an emotional manner by his sister Gin. Jack's life as an artist starts in London where he attends St Martin's School of Art with his sister. But one day, at the age of seventeen, Jack falls under the spell of Vera Savage, a thirty year old artist from Glasgow. He is immediately attracted by her petulant manner, her flamboyant character although it quickly appears that this woman is neither very clean nor often sober. Gin deeply resents this \\"painted creature\\" but she can do nothing to prevent his brother from following Vera to New York. There, Jack is profoundly unhappy, sensing that Vera belongs to a world which offers no place for him, which even rejects him and Jack finds himself tramping the streets with a feeling of anger and misery. <br />Finally Jack and Vera decide to take a passage to Cuba but due to some political unrest, they are forced to leave the island and end up in Port Mungo in Honduras. There, in spite of being engaged in a torrid and complicated love affair with his wife, Jack can finally devote himself entirely to his painting. Their two daughters Peg and Ann are brought up in their parents' chaos. It is mainly Jack who raises them because Vera succumbs to infidelity and alcoholism and her chronic restlessness makes her an impossible mother. After their return to New York 20 years later, the sequels of the time they spent in Port Mungo are still there, notably Peg's death which is surrounded by a halo of mysterious circumstances. <br />In Mr McGrath's novel, human beings are held in a thrall by love, hatred, secrecy, art and complicity and despite their efforts they are unable to escape their fate.	2004-12-23
US	36232108	R3JOPR4ELVFU0B	067972205X	581151089	The Story of a Shipwrecked Sailor	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A gripping narrative	Mr Marquez based his narrative on the true story of 8 members of the destroyer \\"Caldas\\" of the Colombian Navy who fell overboard during a storm in the Caribbean Sea on February 28, 1955. It is a journalistic account of the survival of the only one of the eight men, Luis Alejandro Velaso, who managed to reach a life raft and survived ten days with neither food nor water until he drifted to the Colombian coast and was rescued by a group of villagers. <br />The narration is incredibly gripping considering that practically nothing happens to Luis during the ten days he spent on the raft. There is only the sea, the sky, the stars, the fish, the gulls and a lonely man lost at sea. It shows what a genial storyteller Mr Marquez is, a true virtuoso of the word. In the same vein, it is worth mentioning \\"The Life of Pi\\" by Yann Martel.	2004-12-23
US	36232108	R2KQ16RH0DI6K7	0606006133	691105951	Ethan Frome	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A great American classic	Ethan Frome is a farmer in Starkfield, Massachusetts, at the beginning of the 20th century. He is unhappily married to Zenobia (Zeena), a suspicious, hypochondriac, bitter, narrow-minded, ignorant and discontented woman. He is strongly attracted to Zeena's cousin Mattie Silver who shares their household and is entrusted with all the chores which Zeena refuses to do. Ethan's tragic fate begins when Zeena peremptorily decides that they need a \\"hired girl\\" which would of course imply Mattie's departure since the Fromes don't have the means to employ two girls.<br /><br />A novel of great intensity with its slow developing tragedy and characters plunging towards their destiny. The author's masterful economy of language vividly renders the oppressive \\"silent ache\\" that permanently hinders communication between Ethan and Zeena. The vision of the three main characters is done in an almost cinematic way as they are trapped indoors in the severe Massachusetts winter. The narrative pattern is original too since the whole plot is told by an unnamed narrator who met the taciturn Ethan many years after the events he is about to tell us. The reader has moments of doubt when the narrator tells a story in all details and long passages of dialogue he could not possibly have known or heard during his meeting with Ethan. But Edith Wharton's extraordinary craft makes the story break away from the contingencies of the frame and it comes to moving life for the reader. A superb novel, one of the finest and most intense narratives in the history of American literature.	2004-12-22
US	36232108	R3LQA5Y1LNC0S9	0434305669	857208	The Man Within	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Greene's masterful debut	Francis Andrews is on the run because he informed against a gang of smugglers of spirits - of which he used to be a member - by means of an anonymous letter to the customs, resulting in the death of a ganger who was shot during a set up. Now Carlyon and his men are after Andrews to take revenge. One night, as he is fleeing from his pursuers, Andrews comes across a cottage in Hassocks where he is given shelter by the beautiful Elizabeth Garnet. <br />As Elizabeth slowly grows to trust Andrews, she learns from him about his past, his violent father, smuggler and owner of the ship \\"Good Chance\\" with which he used to transported brandy to England. He also tells her how, after his father's death, he met Carlyon who suggested that he joins the crew. Andrew then tells Elizabeth how deeply he detested these men because he could never ascertain himself in front of them the way his father had. Betraying them was thus a way for him to show his fellow smugglers that he \\"is of importance now\\". <br />It is then that Elizabeth suggests that Andrews go to Lewes the following day where the Assizes are to be held and bear his witness to show his courage. Indeed, a difficult and dangerous decision for Andrews to take... <br />A powerful novel about courage, cowardice, love and faith. It is commendable that Mr Greene achieved to write such a mature novel at the age of only 23.	2004-12-22
US	36232108	R3FA45PBAK3S55	0679736751	416458087	The Long March and In the Clap Shack (2 Books in 1)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A vitriolic look at a Navy ward	Mr Styron's theatre play is set in 1943 in a urological ward of a Navy hospital. There are several soldiers all of whom suffer from various venereal diseases, their presence being \\"a sign of the moral breakdown the war has brought about\\". Schwartz, a solemn Jew, a South-born black called Lorenzo Clark and a syphilis patient, Wally Magruder. The latter has to wear a special bathrobe marked with a yellow \\"S\\" and he has to use a washbasin reserved for patients suffering from the same disease. <br />Among the staff, there is Dr Glanz, well known for \\"always wanting people to be sick\\" and the homosexual male nurse Lineweaver who naturally delights in examining the patients in the ward. <br />A tragic and at the same time comic play about the way patients can be manipulated and mislead by the medical profession, the competence of which is clearly to be mistrusted according to Mr Styron.	2004-12-22
US	36232108	R3D0HWBNORAWST	1843541998	701439961	Bitter Fruit	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A bitter view of contemporary South Africa	In his novel, Mr Dangor depicts the Ali family Silas, Lydia and Michael who live in post apartheid Berea, Johannesburg. As the family ties fall apart, Michael has to come to terms with his grandfather's Ali Ali Indian origins and the fact that he is the son of a former security policeman, Francois Du Boise, who raped his mother. <br />Mr Dangor tells a powerful story of how the horrors of apartheid seep into the life of a small coloured family, a haunting story of a family disintegrating. It is also the story of a country confronting its own past, creating dissonance and unease as the characters attempt to escape from history's tyranny and although the tone of the novel is bitter indeed, the author gives a satirical portrait of his country.	2004-12-22
US	36232108	R59I7OTCKAI43	1842837222	638781970	Twisted Things	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Twisted indeed!	On an October night, contrary to her habit, Clara Connor accompanied her husband Patrick on their yacht, the \\"Connemara\\". That night, an explosion occurred, apparently caused by a gas leak ignited during the storm when the winds were gusting up to gale force. Clara miraculously survived the blast but Patrick died.<br /><br />So why does Clara have recurring dreams of that terrible night, seeing a dark shape looming over her, an axe glinting as it swings towards her? Who is that shape in a baklava wielding the axe? Why couldn't Clara avoid the blow, the pain exploding inside her scalp and neck?<br /><br />Together with DI Jonathan Fergus, Clara will have to wander a very twisted path indeed to understand what happened that night on the yacht. A well constructed suspense, a believable plot and good characters in this suspense story by Mrs Swindells.	2004-12-21
US	36232108	R2IGNSYUTH4OID	0670031305	183103177	Elizabeth Costello	Books	5	8	10	N	N	One of Coetzee's best	Elizabeth Costello is a 66 year old Australian author who has written 9 novels as well as poetry, a book on bird life and journal articles. She is the recipient of several literary awards and on each occasion she is invited to give a lecture in which she expresses not only her ideas in her books but her view of religion, the lives of animals, the mission of a novel writer or various aesthetic issues. <br />Thus the reader is confronted in Mr Coetzee's novel with a wide range of essential thoughts: how to define the function of the novel in our lives, the specificity of native African literature, \\"The humanities teach us humanity\\", the way people treat animals compared to the way the Nazis treated the Jews - a questionable comparison? - or the fact that fiction takes us out of ourselves into other lives. Elizabeth Costello also discusses poets like Rilke or Ted Hughes or the relevance of imposing Christian faith in many African countries. How should the writers deal with the question of evil and Eros in their writings? Does a writer need to have beliefs, is he allowed to change his beliefs? <br />It is not easy to say how much Mr Coetzee wishes to tell about himself through the main character of his novel. In any case, Elizabeth Costello is a better writer than lecturer/talker: \\"Her strategy with interviews is to take control of the exchange\\" by using blocks of dialogue rehearsed in advance. \\"Even as a reader of her own stories she lacks animation\\". \\"Not her mtier, argumentation. She shouldn't be there\\". Henceforth, her lectures often lack a structure and the audience are puzzled by her changes of topic - or sometimes lack of topic - due to the fact that she is \\"full of doubt, and desperate too\\". She feels that it is not her duty to teach or preach anything through her books but merely to show how people lived in a certain place and time. <br />An accomplished work which deals with a wide range of philosophical, ethic, religious and moral issues that are so essential in our lives.	2004-12-21
US	36232108	R2Y1KIS8QZ52VT	2070722317	151639336	Un soir,  Londres	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Un court roman aux couleurs fanes	M. Mohrt relate la rencontre entre Martin, homme rveur et taciturne, mal  l'aise en socit et Vicoria Hamil, femme exubrante. Durant cette rencontre dans un club londonien, ils voquent leurs souvenirs datant de l'poque o ils se sont rencontrs quelques annes auparavant sur la Cte d'Azur. Ce roman dpeint deux tres ne pouvant, pour diverses raisons, tablir une relation intime, pas plus  la suite de cette rencontres  Londres qu' l'poque  Hyres. Le rcit manque de conviction et la caractrisation des personnages parat sans relief. Un roman qui ressemble  un bouquet fan	2004-12-17
US	36232108	R2ZB5JPY4ZXFIV	0393321312	405867595	Poor George: A Novel	Books	5	17	22	N	N	The uncovering of the wastelands of the spirit.	George Mecklin is a teacher of English in New York. He is married to Emma, they're both in their early thirties and they live in the country, a small place called Harmon. George has got an unemployed and divorced sister, Lila. Claude is her young son. George goes to work, attends staff meetings, spends his evenings with Emma, worries about money...<br /><br />It is precisely this uneventful way of life that makes Mrs Fox's novel interesting. It is the tedious and habitual way George leads his life, the utter emptiness and uselessness of his daily activities, almost as though he were living against his own volition. An \\"attitude of defeat\\" is a description used for Emma but it may equally adequately be applied to George, an attitude also shown by his clothes which hang on their hangers \\"like humble effigies of himself\\". Even his trying to help a lost youth, Ernest Jenkins, fails because George, \\"the goddamned fool\\", can only offer him dead heroes and dead poets. But George is lucid enough to be aware that he suffers from a profound disaffection with his life. \\"Poor George! I guess you have as many troubles as the rest of us\\" says one of the characters. Indeed, it is a novel about all the troubles one has to cope with in one's dreary everyday existence, masterfully put down on paper by Mrs Fox.	2004-12-16
US	36232108	R1EVBCS6089TLP	0142001422	804365556	The Pickup	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A considerable literary achievement	Julie Ackroyd Summers is a successful young woman in her early thirties working for a public relations office in Johannesburg. One day, her car breaks down and she is rescued by a mechanic called Ibrahim who is an illegal employee at a garage near the EL-AY caf where Julie is a regular patron. Ibrahim comes from an unnamed Arab country and Julie falls in love with him. Their relationship has to be kept secret all the more since Julie despises her privileged background. She is outright ashamed of her father - a businessman whose sole interest in life is money - and his new wife Danielle as well as of her mother who abandoned her daughter to marry a casino owner in California. <br />When Ibrahim receives the order to depart from South Africa within 14 days because he is in contravention of the termination of his permit, Julie tries to resort to every legal way to prolong Ibrahim's sojourn, but to no avail. When Julie informs her father that she intends to accompany Ibrahim back to his homeland, he tells her bluntly: \\"You choose to go to hell in your own way.\\" Before they depart, Julie and Ibrahim get married. Yet life in the small Arab village is far from hell. Although Ibrahim's sole concern is to obtain a visa for an English speaking country, Julie adapts quite nicely to her new surroundings, learns Arabic, teaches English and participates in the family life. When Ibrahim is granted a visa for America at last, he can't believe what decision his wife has taken... <br />A beautiful, powerful novel about characters and their notions of the other being totally overturned. The social mix created by Mrs Gordimer between contemporary South Africa and the small Arab village in the desert is truly stunning. Let alone to see how much it takes for love to survive the circumstances of emigration and immigration, it is well worth reading \\"The Pickup\\". <br />	2004-12-16
US	36232108	RSJOFIYU67GZA	B0006EABXG	863279465	It's a battlefield (Heron books)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	They're all fighting...	Various characters are more or less involved in the following incident: Jim Drover, a communist bus driver, killed a policeman during a riot at Hyde Park Corner because he thought that the policeman was going to attack his wife Milly. He is now in prison sentenced to death. Milly lives in a shabby, droughty house and although she loves his husband, she starts an affair with Jim's brother Conrad, a chief clerk at the Regal Assurance Company. Conrad is unsure whether, provided that Jim's appeal is successful, the alternative of spending 18 years in prison is a better one to being executed. In any case, his depression and hatred lead him to buying a gun and trying to kill the Assistant Commissioner without realising that the bullets in the guns are blanks. Then there is Mrs Coney, the dead policeman's wife, forced by Milly to sign a petition to save Jim from execution. And Kay Rimmer, Milly's sister, a worker at a match factory, a prostitute of sorts who frequently visits Mr Surrogate, writer of books of economics and socialist idealism.  If \\"it's a battlefield\\", the reader may wonder what those protagonists are fighting for. Although Mr Greene casts a critical glance at institutions such as the Scotland Yard, trade unions, politics or the law, the characters' actions often appear to be meaningless. But perhaps this is the author's point: whatever the battle, one struggles in vain... \\"Brighton Rock\\" or \\"The Human Factor\\" are more carefully constructed novels in which Graham Greene showed his talent as a novelist.	2004-12-15
US	36232108	R29PCUBE67UPFH	2070364089	149257818	Prison Maritime (Folio) (English and French Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Un voyage qui illustre la vie	Herv, notaire inscrit au barreau de Saint-Yvinec, se souvient de l'poque o il tait bachelier. C'tait en 1923. Il est alors choisi par Olivier de Kersangar, capitaine du voilier \\"Roi-Arthur\\", pour faire partie de l'quipage et naviguer  destination de l'Angleterre et de l'Irlande. Avant de s'embarquer, Herv voque quelques souvenirs de ses annes de collge, ses nombreuses discussions avec l'abb que tous surnommaient le Grand Foc et qui lui apprit que tout marin, bien qu'il aspire  la libert du large, est en ralit prisonnier de son navire. Aprs avoir pris le large, le voyage commence pour Herv et ce priple lui permet de rencontrer diffrentes personnalits qui vont marquer son esprit encore jeune. Le prsident R... par exemple et sa famille au Boismeur, leur fille Iris qui lui sera propose en mariage lui promettant ainsi un avenir sans embches. L'excentrique crivain portant le pseudonyme d'Arthur Saint-Arthur. Lady Cecilia, la femme de Kersangar, avec laquelle Herv vit son premier amour. Les O'Connor de Buffalo, en Amrique, avec leur norme fille Jennifer qui ressent bien de l'attrait pour Herv. D'autres personnages comme ric L'vque/Bishop sont lis au transport d'une \\"marchandise\\" sur le \\"Roi-Arthur\\". Herv dcouvrira  ses propres dpends qu'il s'agit d'armes destines  un groupe sparatiste breton ce qui lui vaudra de passer 10 jours en prison en tant que complice! C'est pour Herv un voyage \\"d'initiation  la vie\\" et en mme temps ce sont les souvenirs d'un homme reclus dans la solitude et qui, bachelier plein d'enthousiasme et d'expectative, tait alors bien loin de se douter ce que sa vie allait devenir. Le meilleur romand de Michel Mohrt.	2004-12-07
US	36232108	RQ2Q4FG2YH2A3	0452260116	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A complex and imaginative novel	Mrs Morrison has produced a complex, wonderful and imaginative story of epic dimension about the Dead family and thus more generally about the African American experience in the USA. On the one hand, the reader follows the story of Macon Dead and his son who has the same name and who marries Ruth Foster, daughter of Dr Foster, and their children Lena, First Corinthians and Macon \\"Milkman\\" and on the other hand the story of Macon Dead's sister Pilate Dead, her daughter Reba and her grand-daughter Hagar. <br />Thus the plot spans over nearly a century and one is dazzled by the family's spellbinding search for their past and their roots which ends dramatically on the top of Solomon's Leap. <br />Mrs Morrison put a lot of truth, wisdom and humour in her narrative and \\"Song of Solomon\\" is bound to become a classic American tale of the 20th century.	2004-11-19
US	36232108	R1JZD7AEOYPZUN	0679745688	904783689	Ripley's Game	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Ripley's treacherous game	Reeves Minot, an old acquaintance of Tom Ripley's, is dabbling in the illegal gambling world of Hamburg and he wants Tom to get rid of one or two Mafia people who bother him. But because Tom has been enjoying a peaceful and secure existence in his house in Villeperce since the Derwatt affair, he is not prepared to do the job himself. Instead he suggests - more as a practical joke than anything serious because the man had been nasty to him once at a party - a person called Jonathan Trevanny to do the two killings. Jonathan is a thirty-five year old, mild mannered picture framer in Fontainebleau suffering from leukaemia and he agrees to do the job because of the comfort the 90 000 Dollars will bring to his wife Simone and small boy George. But killing Salvatore Bianca and Vito Marcangelo is going to have consequences that not even a Tom Ripley could have foreseen. \\"The Mafia never forgets\\" indeed!... <br />A very entertaining Ripley mystery in Patricia Highsmith's famous style in which one can feel danger and menace lurking permanently in familiar surroundings.	2004-10-22
US	36232108	R2GU0D02QZ8J3C	0312421974	42109996	This Side of Brightness: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A remarkable achievement	In this epic novel, Mr McCann combines both historical facts and fiction. On the historical side, the story opens with the digging of a railway tunnel under the East River in New York in 1916. The reader follows the main character, a coloured man called Nathan Walker, a sandhog who struggles daily with his shovel against the earth. The working conditions are atrocious: the heat, the noise, the dirt, the physical strain - the digging was done by manpower in these days. Later Nathan marries Eleanor O'Lear, a white woman of Irish descent. Such a marriage was considered by most New Yorkers as a disgrace at that time. They bring up two children, both a social and a financial challenge. <br />Parallel to Nathan Walker's story, the reader follows another character, a homeless man nicknamed Treefrog who made his home in one of the many disused tunnels in New York in the 1990s. At first there appears to be no connection between Nathan and Treefrog but soon enough the reader discovers how and why they are linked in the novel. <br />With a marvellous narrative for its economy, Mr McCann constructs a beautiful epic story of laughter and tragedy, of sadness and small victories. It is an authentic account about homelessness, about living below the rich and about the stronghold of the past.	2004-10-16
US	36232108	R3BTIJB97GTQJ6	1856192008	384026830	Take Leave and Go	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A powerful portrait of South Africa	Adriaan is an acclaimed Afrikaner poet living in Cape town, South Africa, at the time when the ethnic oppressions started to turn into violence. Adriaan is a secluded character who does not wish to discuss or read his poetry in public, who doesn't feel compelled to advertise his writing in literary journals. He isn't interested in so-called \\"admirers\\" of Afrikaans literature either and he is thus a fairly isolated figure in the small community of writers and artists of Cape Town. The fact that his companion Stephan left him a short while ago makes him feel even more lonely. Among his friends, Nico is a superficial and conceited actor relentlessly looking for an improbable lover in the latest cruising points in the city. The atmosphere of sadness and desolation is increased by the fact that Cape Town is becoming slowly depopulated and continuously invaded by the homeless and dispossessed who set up their camps among the empty, neglected and decayed buildings. The squatters' filthy shelters pop up everywhere in streets and in parks. Hawkers, peddlers, hucksters, thieves and beggars slowly creep into the city centre. As the oppression against the natives increases, bloody corpses litter the streets, blood is smeared over the pavement. \\"We learned not to ask questions; we learned to keep silent, we learned to accept.\\" writes Mr. Schoeman. At the same time the members of the white community remain securely barricaded with their money and their comfort behind the high walls surrounding their properties. Gradually, acquaintances are leaving: Bernard's wife Marisa is leaving for Holland. She wishes \\"never even hear the name South Africa any more.\\" The days of the small museum where Adriaan works are numbered, a decison taken by some official in Pretoria. Employees are gradually leaving it and looking for other job opportunities. Carla closes down her beach house in Brandvlei, knowing that she'll probably never return to it again. Even Dekker, an renown old poet, though physically still present in the country, took leave long ago and shut himself from the world with disillusionment. <br />A very powerful novel depicting the darkest epoch of South Africa. The story of many characters drowning in sadness and abandonment because there is little hope for art, poetry or love in the future.	2004-10-16
US	36232108	R1337OQ9GETVUE	0805052119	66101030	The Story of the Night: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A story of love and sadness	Buenos Aires, Argentina, in the 1980s. Garay is a young Argentinean in his mid twenties of half English descent because of his mother. He teaches English at the Instituto San Martin, a job he profoundly dislikes because of its monotony. He distrusts people and prefers to spend time alone, surprised if anyone likes him or approves of him, often seeing the world as separate from himself. When his mother is at work, he enjoys pretending that he is a woman, putting on her underwear, her skirts and blouses. When his mother dies, Garay's solitude becomes really oppressive. Moreover, it is a period of unrest in Argentina: the Malvinas war, the end of the Allende regime and the political emergence of a cowboy called Carlos Menem. <br />Garay's life starts changing after he meets Susan and Donald Ford. They offer him a job as a consultant/interpreter/guide for a group of American officials visiting Buenos Aires on business. Being quite successful, Susan and Donald suggest some time later that Garay opens his own office as a consultant. He gladly accepts their proposition and happily leaves his career as a teacher behind him for ever. <br />Although Garay always believed that he was happier alone, he realises that he is desperate for someone. So meeting Pablo Canetto is a blessing despite the fact that their relationship has to be kept secret for quite some time. <br />A moving novel and a truly sensitive account of the way the gay community suffered from the outbreak of AIDS in the 1980s.	2004-10-16
US	36232108	R3TOLOPWFC1ZP8	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	An autobiographic novel	Although the hero of James Joyce's novel is called Stephen Dedalus, the events and characters depicted in it parallel the author's own experiences. In his early childhood, at the very beginning of the 20th century, Stephen was sent to Clongowes, a Jesuit boarding school near Dublin. He disliked the place because his classmates bullied him, because he was taught religion in a dogmatic way and because he was flogged unjustly by his prefect of studies. After that he spent a summer with his uncle Charles in Dublin. Stephen was then sent to Belvedere college, which he disliked as much as Clongowes. The spirit of quarrelsome comradeship couldn't turn him away from his habits of quiet obedience. He mistrusted the agitation and doubted the sincerity of such comradeship, which he felt was an awful anticipation of adulthood. <br />Stephen was by then aware that he didn't belong. He also felt more and more estranged from his father after having accompanied him once to Cork and witnessed his drinking habits, a journey which ended in Stephen's first experience in love making - a sordid one. <br />More disappointment followed as Stephen went to university, thus becoming a disillusioned young man - a disillusionment caused by academicism, love and sex, his parents, religion and perhaps also his own country, Ireland...	2004-09-27
US	36232108	R3UM8UGUCH9JQX	0345426274	955062554	The Analyst	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A soul-searching thriller	Dr Frederick Starks is a widowed psychoanalyst in New York. He is a man devoted to regularity, almost touching on obsession, because he thinks that by imposing reason on his day-to-day life he can make sense more easily with the chaos that his patients bring to him daily. He is therefore all the more distraught when, on his 53rd birthday, he receives a mysterious envelope containing a frightening text. The opening sentence of the letter welcomes him to the first day of his death... The author of the letter, a certain Rumplestiltskin, claims that Dr Starks ruined his life and now wishes that he kills himself within a time frame of exactly fifteen days. If Dr Starks refuses to commit suicide, his relatives will suffer torments which they will never recover from. <br />Who could that Rumplestiltskin be and what made him hate Dr Starks so furiously? A former patient? A madman? Dr Starks will soon realise how seriously he had better take these menaces if he wants to survive the imposed fifteen-day deadline, the most dreadful fifteen days one can imagine. <br />Breathtaking suspense, intelligent characters and an utterly believable plot are the ingredients which make Mr Katzenbach's novel a real pleasure to devour.	2004-09-27
US	36232108	RMGWQP82DVJ07	0753109425	743379308	Vendetta (Isis)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Aurelio Zen in top shape	Vice-Questore Aurelio Zen, officer of the Criminalpol section of the Ministry of Interior in Rome, is entrusted with a video cassette connected to the sensational \\"Burolo Affair\\" about which Zen has to write a report summarising the case to date. Since Oscar Burolo had a mania of recording the highpoints of his life, the video tape shows a dinner party at his extravagant villa in Sardinia, when suddenly Oscar and his party reel away from shotgun blasts apparently coming from nowhere, the murderer having passed through the elaborate electronic defences of the property as if they didn't exist. <br />But when, sometime later, a pickpocket manages to steal the video cassette while Zen is boarding a bus and when Zen is summoned to the Palazzo Sisti and asked by \\"l'onorevole\\" to go to Sardinia and fake some evidence in order to withdraw the charges against the main suspect Renato Favelloni, the inspector is about to start one of the most dangerous investigation in his career. <br />Very good action-packed thriller with breathtaking scenes in Sardinia and an Aurelio Zen in full swing! <br />Michael Tudor Barnes delivers a stunning performance reading \\"Vendetta\\".	2004-09-24
US	36232108	R2I0AYTZ7QGSUH	0060975504	351682093	When Nietzsche Wept: A Novel of Obsession	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An extraordinary read	Dr Yalom's novel is set in Vienna at the end of the 19th century, on the eve of the birth of psychoanalysis. The main characters are the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, Dr Joseph Bauer, one of the founders of psychoanalysis, and a then young (the year is 1882) medical intern called Sigmund Freud. As these protagonists discuss their ideas, preoccupations and frustrations, they create an original plot of a fictional relationship between an exceptional analysand and a talented analyst. As the fictional dialogue between Breuer and Nietzsche unfolds, the reader becomes aware of the fact that at this epoch it must have been the first time that a doctor realised that what mattered is not what a patient said but that he said it. These were truly the first steps towards psychotherapy. Breuer's task was not made easy by Nietzsche's character. His social fears and his misanthropy made him select an impersonal and distant style. His tone was often harsh and brittle, particularly when he talked about his deceptive lover, Lou Salom, a woman Nietzsche actually met in the spring of 1882. The unpleasant experience he had with this one and only love affair made him resentful towards women. He felt that they corrupted and spoiled him, he avoided them because he thought that he was ill suited for them. This partly explains Nietzsche's total isolation, his feeling of belonging nowhere, having no lover, no circle of friends, no home, no family hearth, his life sounding like a hollow echo. <br />A wonderful achievement showing sad and troubled characters in an intriguing cross-discussion of philosophy and emerging psychotherapy, yet as gripping to read as a detective story.	2004-09-23
US	36232108	R3RSVQV020LQVR	B00005X6FN	660889022	The white hotel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A remarkable novel	This is the story of Elizabeth Erdman, a professional singer, from the time she was a young woman in the 1920s to her death on 29 September 1941 in Kiev where she was killed like many other Jews by the Nazis. The tale is a subtle maze of poetry and case history, dreams, fantasy and historical facts. The novel opens with a letter written by Sigmund Freud about one of his patients, a young woman singer whose career was interrupted and who wrote \\"verses\\" between the staves of a score of \\"Don Giovanni\\" showing that she suffers from a severe sexual hysteria. <br />Indeed, in the first chapter, the reader is confronted with Lisa's \\"verse\\", a mixture of pornographic material and hallucinatory dreams of horrible events that took place at a white hotel set in the Austrian Alps. Then follows an account in prose of how the patient allegedly met Freud's son who took her to the white hotel where she experienced a nearly constant sado-masochistic love making. There she also \\"witnessed\\" several tragedies: the hotel catching fire, people perishing in a landslide or in a cable-car accident. <br />Following this account, a fictional Freudian case study partly explains Lisa's hallucinations through a careful analysis of her youth. After Freud's psychotherapy, Lisa appears to have regained her sanity because as of the spring of 1929, she resumes her career as a singer and becomes quite a renown artist. The reader follows her from Milan to Vienna where she marries Victor. Her voice gradually fades in quality and her final move is to Odessa before World War II and before the Nazis manage to occupy this Russian city. <br />A book to experience rather than simply to read, a haunting and strange novel, its plot woven like a tapestry, full of beautiful and sad characters.	2004-09-14
US	36232108	RTOMSRVDE52GF	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Entertaining	Joe, Hickey and Cheryl are kidnappers. They abduct children, ask for a moderate ransom in the form of a wire so that the transaction runs smoothly and is completed within 24 hours. <br />As they are about to kidnap Abby, Will and Karen Jennings's daughter, they can hardly imagine that this time their operation is going to be anything but easy-going. As for the victims, they are about to spend the worst 24 hours in their lives.	2004-09-09
US	36232108	RQL1XI69QZU7K	0785928871	632738899	La Ronde de Nuit (French Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Souvenirs de l'Occupation	Paris pendant la Seconde Guerre Mondiale, la priode de l'Occupation. Le narrateur est tiraill par la question qui court  travers tout le roman: tre tratre ou non? Le narrateur accepte d'abord de travailler pour la Gestapo franaise et en mme temps, au hasard d'une rencontre, se retrouve membre d'un rseau de la Rsistance, le RCO - Rseau des Chevaliers de l'Ombre. D'un caractre hsitant, le narrateur ne se sent appartenir  aucun des deux camps, ni tratre ni hros, seulement martyre. <br />Comme dans \\"La Place de l'Etoile\\", son premier roman, l'auteur a choisi pour son deuxime roman l'poque de l'Occupation, une poque qu'il n'a pas vcue mais dont les derniers remous l'ont atteint.	2004-09-09
US	36232108	R3LD0SALYRDNZN	B00005VADH	459587507	Abduction	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Dr Cook is no Jules Verne...	Perry Bergman, founder, president and largest shareholder of Benthic Marine is on its way on board the Benthic Explorer near the volcanically and seismically active Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Using the submarine Oceanus, the crew is working on their current project: drilling into a magma chamber within a seamount west of the Azores. <br />One day, in the Oceanus, the crew come across a strange and deep hole that looks like an opening into an extinct volcano when suddenly the submarine looses its buoyancy and is inexorably sucked into the abyss. And so the members of the crew are about to enter the futuristic world of Inteterra. <br />Jules Verne wrote an infinitely more refined book, \\"Voyage to the Center of the Earth\\", in 1864! Maybe Dr Cook should concentrate on what is his speciality: medicine.	2004-09-07
US	36232108	RVTTZFJ265CY4	2070752321	433592956	Tais-Toi (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Les vertus du silence	Silvre Lahire perd le cousin de son pre, Frdric Lahire, en 1939. Silvre est rapidement envot par ce dfunt et entreprend tout son possible pour cerner la personnalit et le caractre de Frdric Lahire - il projette mme d'crire une biographie sur le personnage. <br />Ses investigations le conduisent d'abord au Portugal o il rencontre Saint Broc qui a eu Frdric Lahire comme stagiaire au \\"Petit Quotidien\\". Journaliste exalt d'abord, ne pensant qu' tout crier sur les toits, Frdric fut rapidement mt, ne livrant plus que des copies vides de toute substance. <br />Sylvre rencontre ensuite Onsime Rousillon qui fut le directeur du \\"Petit Quotidien\\" et qui fut oblig de mettre fin  la carrire de journaliste de Frdric  cause de son incomptence. Il lui procura alors une place  la Rsidence gnrale de Tunis, l'y supporta un certain temps avant d'en tre dbarrass dfinitivement lorsqu'il obtint un emploi  la Standard Fuel and Gasoline. <br />Pourquoi Frdric se taisait-il sans cesse? Habilet, lchet, dfrence, mpris, honte, timidit, prudence? Sylvre se pose ces questions alors qu'il s'apprte  rencontrer Philomne, l'ancienne bonne de la tante Coralie de Frdric. Elle lui apprend que ce dernier fut un enfant turbulent et bruyant avant de devenir introverti et taciturne a prs avoir reu cet ordre simple de sa mre lorsqu'il refusa d'apprendre l'quitation: \\"Maintenant, tais-toi!\\" Et Philomne de conclure: \\"Le silence, c'tait devenu sa faon  lui d'tre mchant.\\" <br />D'autres rencontres suivront avec Mircea Katzensteg et Igor de Rosex dont Sylvre apprendra d'autres phases de la vie de Frdric: depuis le \\"silent partner\\" qu'il fut, navigant  l'aise parmi les cartels ptroliers amricains, jusqu' la fin tragique de son existence. <br />Extraordinaire histoire d'un personnage muet, \\"C'est un homme qui aura tout russi, sans rveiller le chat.\\"	2004-09-07
US	36232108	R258E5ALC0UK68	0192830422	618361990	Ludwig Wittgenstein: A Memoir (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A vivid memory	Norman Malcolm was a close friend of Ludwig Wittgenstein's. They exchanged many letters and the reader can discover the 56 letters that Wittgenstein sent to Malcolm between March 26 1940 to April 16 1951 in this book. <br />Norman Malcolm does not discuss Wittgenstein's philosophical works - although he attended a respectable number of his lectures - but describes the philosopher in his daily life, his tastes, his talks with his fellows in Cambridge. It is interesting to learn that Wittgenstein was an emphatic talker both while lecturing and conversing privately, that he dressed as simply as possible although he had rigorous standards of cleanliness and that his room at Trinity College was austerely furnished. <br />His lectures were quite original. He didn't address his audience in a formal way but the meetings - in his room where the members of the class had to bring chairs - were rather a conversation during which Wittgenstein carried on original research. He was usually impatient and easily angered and his students often feared him. Making friendship with Wittgenstein was very exacting since his extreme harshness could rebuke a friend. Malcolm often experienced that Wittgenstein had a tendency to be suspicious of motives and character. It was always a strain to be with Wittgenstein because of the intellectual demands of his conversation and his ruthless severity. This was due to his passionate love of truth and that is the reason why his philosophical thoughts tortured and exhausted him. He detested academic life, he could not stand the society of his academic colleagues and could not suffer all forms of affectation and insincerity. His mood was often sombre because of the difficulty of achieving understanding in philosophy. As he struggled to work through a problem, his listeners felt that they were in the presence of real suffering. That may explain his strong inclination to pessimism, a feeling that was often close to despair. Another source of torment was that he felt himself to be a failure as a teacher, a profession he abandoned after a few years to devote himself exclusively to philosophy. <br />Towards the end of his life, Wittgenstein spent long months with Malcolm and his wife in America where Malcolm could witness Wittgenstein's increasing difficulty to concentrate and think, mainly because of his fragile health. A moving memory of one of the greatest philosophers of the 20th century.	2004-09-07
US	36232108	R3UPYITIM172II	014006110X	257388093	Waiting for the Barbarians: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Profoundly distrubing	An old magistrate waiting to retire is serving out his last days on a lazy frontier in South Africa. He has jurisdiction over the garrison. But with the arrival of Colonel Joll from the Third Bureau - the most important division of the Civil Guard - the peaceful life is about to end for the magistrate. The arrival of Joll and his troops is justified by the fact that in the capital there is some concern about the barbarian tribes of the north uniting with those of the west, which may lead to unrest. Joll's methods of interrogation are brutal, his evidence against the native prisoners based on thin air. \\"Prisoners are prisoners\\" is enough of an accusation to lead a man or a woman to death. <br />When the magistrate decides to take a twenty year old girl with whom he had a relationship back to her tribe of barbarians, he is accused of having treasonously conspired with the enemy and the treatment inflicted on him thereafter is no less inhuman than that endured by the barbarians themselves. This is the price the magistrate has to pay for giving up his \\"alliance with the guardians of the Empire\\" and setting himself into opposition, thus becoming an enemy of the state. <br />Mr Coetzee's book shows all the suffering that the apartheid regime used to inflict on native South Africans. Furthermore, it shows that this regime was capable of committing the same atrocities against people of their own kin.	2004-09-06
US	36232108	R1IW24FMRC8Z1O	2253004022	768523807	Regain (Le Livre De Poche) (French Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Roman champtre des ann&eacute;es 30	Le petit village d'Aubignane a &eacute;t&eacute; abandonn&eacute; par la plupart de ses habitants il y a bien longtemps d&eacute;j&agrave;, essentiellement &agrave; cause de la mauvaise qualit&eacute; des terres environnantes. Pourtant les derniers habitants persistent dans leur volont&eacute; de demeurer &agrave; Aubignane: Le Panturle, paysan &eacute;norme qui continue &agrave; travailler ses terres avec acharnement et Arsule qui deviendra l'&eacute;pouse du Panturle. Bravant un climat rude et une nature hostile, ils sont d&eacute;termin&eacute;s &agrave; lutter pour la survie d'Aubignane. Leur courage s'&eacute;bruite dans les villages alentours et lorsque D&eacute;sir&eacute; et Delphine vienne s'installer avec leurs enfants &agrave; Aubignane, le Panturle, \\"les bras le long du corps, il ne bouge pas. Il a gagn&eacute;: c'est fini\\", peut savourer le succ&egrave;s de ses efforts.	2004-09-06
US	36232108	R3DH5CDBK5D16Y	0140206493	612039864	Sexual Deviation (Pelican)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A comprehensive study	Dr Storr deals with various deviations related to sexuality. Although these vary from country to country and from epoch to epoch, various patterns of sexual behaviour can be considered as generic Although certain behaviours can be considered as unnatural, they are widely spread among both women and men in the Western civilisation. Dr Storr is chiefly concerned with the description of the origins of most deviations.<br /><br />The feeling of guilt is an essential factor in the production of sexual deviation because our societies place some restraints upon sexual conduct. With certain children, the feeling of guilt is so strong that they're unable to overcome it and continue to carry it with them into adult life with the result that their capacity for forming adult relationships is impaired. Extreme sexual guilt prevents a person from falling in love, since he or she cannot believe that another will find acceptable what he or she has himself or herself tried to reject.<br /><br />A conviction of sexual inferiority is an equally strong impediment. This is particularly the case with men since first they have to achieve and sustain erection, second the male has to become quite a different creature from his mother in the process of development from child to adult and third there is no male equivalent to child bearing. Furthermore, a boy whose father is either absent or indifferent has less chance of developing into a sexually confident adult male because the parent of the same sex fails the child by being a deficient sexual model. So the inferiority feeling so characteristic of the sexually deviant usually originates in an early failure in identification.<br /><br />Dr Storr examines different types of deviation like sado-masochism (relationships which try to re-create childish patterns in which one partner is acting the child and the other is assuming the role of parent), fetishism (in this case the fetish acts as a reassurance, a defence against fear, a magical device which ensures potency), transvestism (the transvestite may be said to have sexual relations with clothes instead of with a person), male and female homosexuality, exhibitionism, frotteurism, voyeurism, paedophilia and buggery.<br /><br />In the last part of his book, Dr Storr examines the methods of treatment of sexual deviants, notably by analytical psychotherapy.<br /><br />An instructive study allowing the reader to realise that a sexual deviation is the outward sign of a failure to make an adult love-relationship, the study of sexual deviation being nothing else than the study of sex without love. The only drawback of the study is that it dates back to 1964 and some aspects of it appear slightly obsolete today.tency), transvestism (the transvestite may be said to have sexual relations with clothes instead of with a person), male and female homosexuality, exhibitionism, frotteurism, voyeurism, paedophilia and buggery. <br />In the last part of his book, Dr Storr examines the methods of treatment of sexual deviants, notably by analytical psychotherapy. <br />An instructive study allowing the reader to realise that a sexual deviation is the outward sign of a failure to make an adult love-relationship, the study of sexual deviation being nothing else than the study of sex without love. The only drawback of the study is that it dates back to 1964 and some aspects of it appear slightly obsolete today.	2004-08-27
US	36232108	R3X5Z7BLATZN7	0375400931	619497840	The House of Sleep	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Witty, clever and original	It is not an easy task describing Mr Coe's novel in a few lines. This is not only due to the twisty nature of the plot - intermittently describing events nearly 10 years distant in time - but also to the great number of characters often involved in confusing situations resulting from witty misunderstandings. This is not in the least to say that the novel is confusing, on the contrary, the non-linear plot is an essential part of the originality of \\"The House of Sleep\\". <br />In the 1980s a group of students were studying at the imposing college of Ashdown on the English South Coast before drifting apart. A decade later, Ashdown has become the Dudden Clinic where the increasingly unstable Dr Dudden investigates the mechanisms of sleep, using both animals and human beings for his various experiments. Due to a series of coincidences involving various disorders in their sleep patterns, these students are drawn back together. Sarah is narcoleptic, she has dreams so vivid that she can't distinguish them from real events, Robert whose identity is about to change completely due to misunderstandings that come from his/her condition and Terry, the insomniac film critic who spends his nights with his obsessions with movies. And finally Dr Dudden who considers sleep as a disease shortening people's lives by a third. <br />A compelling novel about love, loss and obsession.	2004-08-24
US	36232108	R3708WRY2LNYGA	0802117643	228454813	The Good Doctor	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An impressive novel	Laurence Waters is working in a rundown hospital in the capital of what used to be one of the homelands of South Africa. These areas of land are impoverished and underdeveloped, set aside by the apartheid government for the self determination of its various black nations. As Frank Eloff joins the staff of five for a one year training, he soon discovers that there is virtually no activity at the hospital. Most of the people living in the abandoned town - built once by what Laurence terms as \\"a puppet dictator\\" - aren't even aware of the presence of the facility! The equipment is so flimsy that most cases have to be referred to a hospital in a town an hour away. <br />Nevertheless, Mr Galgut masterfully describes the relationships between the staff members, at times showing harmony, at times tension and discord. Laurence's thoughts are busy with his failed marriage, with his father resenting him for being what one may call a loser - he ironically talks about \\"such wonderful work you do up there amongst the rural blacks\\" - or with his memories of the two years he spent in the army. <br />An altogether impressive read, atmospheric with the heavy heat of South Africa, its political and racial issues and the permanent threat of violence which many authors associate with their country in their novels - J.M. Coetzee, Andr Brink, Nadine Gordimer or Doris Lessing to name but a few.	2004-08-24
US	36232108	R2NFS0EZ33L2S7	0060975091	358731561	Three Farmers on Their Way to a Dance	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An audacious novel	Mr Powers begins his novel by following a narrator travelling by train from Chicago to Boston. He has to change trains in Detroit and since he has several hours at his leisure, he decides to visit the Detroit Institute of Arts. There, he is puzzled by a photograph taken by Augustus Sander in 1914 showing three farmers on their way to a dance. The reader follows the narrator's progress as he tries to find answers to the questions that preoccupy him about the photograph: who took it, why was it taken, who are the three farmers appearing in the picture. <br />On another level, Mr Powers gives a fictional account - or it may also be the result of the narrator's research, it is not explicit in the text - of the action taking place at the time the photograph was taken and also what happens subsequently. And so the reader gets to know the three farmers Hubert, Peter and Adolphe. <br />Yet on another level, the author introduces various contemporary characters working in the Powell Building for a magazine called \\"Micro Monthly News\\": Mays, Moseley, Delaney. After having at first the impression that the events at this level are unrelated to the two other levels, the reader soon realises that there is a connection indeed. <br />What makes Mr Powers's novel interesting are his many reflections on various topics. These range from the situation of a small Belgian village called Petit Roi during the First World War, the part that Henry Ford played in that war, various personalities like Darwin, Freud, Gdel, Planck or Sarah Bernhardt, to the Industrial Revolution and the changes that mechanisation brought to our civilisation. And because the main protagonist so to speak of the novel is a photograph, Mr Powers also deals in detail in the history of photography. <br />A very instructive novel, plenty of interesting points of view that show Mr Powers's broad knowledge.	2004-08-20
US	36232108	RMUATHI6ZYPD6	0606294856	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The song of Australia	Mr Carey's novel relates the epic life of Ned Kelly in Australia in the second half of the 19th century. The text comes in the form of 13 parcels of varying length (from 7 to 50 pages). Sometimes they are sheets of National Bank or Bank of New South Wales letterhead, a cloth booklet, octavo pages, open envelopes providing space for text, a pocket diary or the reverse side of advertising fliers. They cover Ned's adventurous life until the manuscript abruptly terminates when he was 26 years old and it is told in a tone so wild and passionate that the reader often believes that the bushranger is speaking to him from the grave! It is a breathtaking account of an existence marked by a cascade of events where Ned is in turn a reformer, a criminal, a horse thief, a farmer, a bushranger and an orphan. Ned's voice is very convincing, continually creating new surprises on every page despite the plainness of his language, or rather perhaps because of it. Actually his uneducated voice is very much part of the originality of Mr Carey's novel. <br />The critics have ranked Mr Carey next to Charles Dickens and Lawrence Sterne - very rightly so, in my opinion.	2004-08-20
US	36232108	RZF0OLFX6BAAY	2070368688	616782431	La P Respectueuse Suivi De Morts Sans Se (Folio) (English and French Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Une pi&egrave;ce sur le racisme	Le problme du racisme dans le sud des Etats-Unis est trait par Sartre de manire originale. Une prostitue, Lizzie Mac Cay, se voit brusquement confronte  un Ngre qui lui demande de lui accorder sa protection. Il est en effet poursuivi pour le meurtre d'un blanc, Thomas. Il s'avre que le Ngre n'est pas l'assassin de Thomas, et pourtant  la fois la police et la famille Clarke vont essayer d'extorquer une fausse dposition de la part de Lizzie. La brusquerie et la vulgarit dont Fred et le Snateur Clarke traitent Lizzie et le Ngre sont rvoltantes. On ne peut qu'esprer que les choses ont volu en Amrique depuis l'poque o Sartre a crit cette pice de thtre, peu aprs la Seconde Guerre Mondiale.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	R2BCX12KA81IOC	0140068902	715798190	A Dry White Season	Books	5	29	31	N	N	A harrowing novel	Ben Du Toit teaches history and geography in Johannesburg, South Africa. It is the period of the height of the youth riots in the township of Soweto. At Ben's school, Gordon Ngubene, a native, is a cleaner and he occasionally does little chores for Ben. When Ben sees that Jonathan, Gordon's son, is showing signs of intelligence and diligence, he decides to partly finance his education. One day however, Jonathan takes part in a demonstration which ends up in a violent riot and is arrested by the police. A few weeks later, after a harrowing quest through countless offices, Ben and Gordon are informed that Jonathan died \\"of natural causes\\" while in detention. <br />Due to the mystery surrounding his son's death, Gordon gives up his job in order to devote himself entirely to the enquiries which have become an obsession with him. Both the Special Branch and the Security Police are annoyed about Gordon's insistence and soon enough Gordon is arrested. After numerous attempts to try to trace Gordon and speak to him, Ben and Gordon's wife Emily are told by the spokesman of the Security Police that Gordon apparently committed suicide by hanging himself with strips torn from his blanket. <br />But Ben Du Toit senses that the official explanations for both Jonathan's and Gordon's deaths are just a pretext for poorly disguised murders and so he decides to take matters in his own hands and starts investigating. <br />Mr Brink's novel is a harrowing account of a solitary man's fight against all the atrocities of the Apartheid. During this dark period in the history of South Africa, a white man had to be a real hero to fight for the right of the Afrikaners. The author beautifully captures the fact that Ben has to fight not only the resentment of the people of the other race, but also that of the people belonging to his own race - his family for a start. The descriptions of the townships of Johannesburg, particularly that of Soweto, are breathtaking in their accuracy and poignancy.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	RQNHG3A320XZ6	207036125X	745064323	Belle De Jour (Folio)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Un roman sur l'amour	Ce roman dcrit l'histoire tourmente de Sverine Srizy. Joseph Kessel peint de manire admirable le difficile divorce entre le coeur et la chair, entre son vrai, immense et tendre amour pour son Mari Pierre et l'exigence implacable des sens. Nous portons tous en nous ce conflit, chaque homme et chaque femme qui a aim longtemps. Chez Sverine, il ne sommeille pas mais il dchire sa vie. Cet antagonisme peut paratre banal et maintes fois dcrit dans la littrature (pensons  \\"Madame Bovary\\") mais Joseph Kessel a choisi une situation exceptionnelle ce qui donne  son roman un degr d'intensit remarquable	2004-08-06
US	36232108	R1RDL5TC27M735	0330248871	255713733	Victoria (Picador)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A tormented first love	\\"Victoria\\" is the tormented story of Johannes Moller, the miller's son, and Victoria, a Chamberlain's daughter living at an unnamed Castle. Although they have known each other since their childhood, their love is bound to fail, mainly for social reasons. Victoria's family want her to marry Lieutenant Otto because they need the son-in-law's money to restore their former glory, a marriage of convenience in other words.<br /><br />Johannes is deeply in love with Victoria, musing about the fragrance emanating from her body, the shape of her shoulders and body. He is driven to despair by Victoria, her shifting mood, saying she loves him but very often refusing to meet him, avoiding him. Johannes has moments of hallucinatory nightmares, seeing strange figures, human heads rolling on the pavement in front of him, voices shouting at him. He is seized by icy fears and sees barking fish...<br /><br />Johannes also feels that he doesn't fit in Victoria's world and the society of the castle remains distant to him. \\"My dear young lady, the place is yours, not mine\\" he tells her. When Johannes meets Lieutenant Otto, Victoria's fiance, a feeling of utter despair descends on him because the reason for Victoria's attachment to Otto is solely due to the fact that he is \\"well-bred\\".<br /><br />A novel of unhappiness, missed opportunities and loneliness occasioned by greed, social pressure and indecisiveness.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	R32EBTWBQ8B4G6	2070412768	737098860	Inconnues (Folio) (French Edition)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mlancolique	N'ayant pas t accepte comme mannequin chez la Socit de Rayonne et Soierie, la narratrice quitte Lyon pour Paris et trouve refuge chez Mireille Maximoff qu'elle a rencontre au cours de ses vacances  Torremolinos, en Espagne. Elle commence une liaison avec \\"Guy Vincent\\" alias Alberto Zymbalist, homme nigmatique qui exerce une profession indfinissable dans une \\"Agence\\", avec des \\"associs\\". \\"C'tait le vide qui m'attirait aussi chez lui. Je le trouvais mystrieux, insaisissable\\" dit la narratrice. Un jour elle s'approche de l'htel o Guy rside. Le btiment est encercl par la police. Guy est-il mort ou a-t-il t arrt? On ne le saura jamais. C'est l'histoire de la premire inconnue de ce roman de Patrick Modiano et le lecteur en dcouvrira deux autres. Atmosphre triste, mlancolie, destines floues et tragiques, voil comme toujours ce qui fait la force de cet auteur.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	R12PIXWIYMUZ2	0785919082	383819169	Le Livre de Ma Mere	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bouleversant!...	Ce livre bouleversant est l'vocation d'une femme, d'une mre, aujourd'hui morte, qui a vcu pour son fils. C'est aussi le livre d'un fils, le livre de tous les fils. Chacun de nous y reconnat sa propre mre et chacun de nous pleurant sa mre disparue y retrouvera les reproches qu'il s'adresse  lui-mme lorsqu'il pense  telle remarque o il s'est montr ingrat, indiffrent, impatient ou incomprhensif. Ces regrets et ces remords sont toujours tardifs. \\"Aucun fils ne sait vraiment que sa mre mourra et tous les fils se fchent et s'impatientent contre leurs mres, les fous si tt punis.\\" Une uvre remarquable, unique,  lire imprativement.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	R16ASLFOAH02F6	0828837945	629193671	Le Coq de Bruyere (French Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nouvelles originales et varies	Une trs belle collection de nouvelles parfois comiques, parfois tragiques o dfilent quantit de personnages qui veillent chez le lecteur tantt de la compassion, tantt de la tristesse, mais aussi du bonheur et de l'amusement. Les qualits littraires de Michel Tournier confrent  ce charmant livre tout ce que le lecteur requiert pour prouver un grand plaisir de lecture.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	RZAJZ2S4AE35U	3125974003	988797525	La Symphonie Pastorale. ( echo - Lektren Franzsisch). (Lernmaterialien)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Un mouvant roman	Un roman mouvant avec un amour difficile, voire impossible, entre le narrateur, pasteur dans le Jura, et une orpheline aveugle, Gertrude. Le pasteur rencontre Gertrude dans une ferme. La jeune femme se trouve dans un tat physique lamentable et le pasteur dcide de l'emmener chez lui pour faire son ducation. Il passe beaucoup de temps avec elle, lui apprend  lire. Le mcontentement de sa femme Amlie va grandissant : elle reproche au pasteur de s'occuper davantage de Gertrude que de ses propres enfants. Il n'chappe pas  Amlie que bientt le pasteur dveloppera un sentiment plus que paternel pour Gertrude. Lorsque Gertrude va recouvrer la vue, sa relation avec le pasteur court vers le dsastre. <br />Un des meilleurs romans d'Andr Gide.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	R1PUQ7SDJ3Z3HN	2070751449	548457052	Le Balcon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Thtre sans merci.	Dans un bordel de luxe, les phantasmes les plus scabreux des clients sont exaucs par Madame Irma. Les clients peuvent ainsi se mtamorphoser en vque, en juge ou en gnral et infliger aux prostitues tous les svices qui accompagnent leur libido. A l'extrieur, la rvolution gronde sans troubler les clients qui se retirent chez Madame Irma comme dans un havre de paix et de luxure. Une pice de thtre excellente o la cruaut des dialogues et des situations est souvent dure.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	RPI7DE892W129	2070379426	855277011	Quartier Perdu (Folio) (French Edition)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Souvenirs, mlancolie, tristesse... et suspense	Ambrose Guise est un auteur  succs de romans policiers - la srie s'appelle \\"Jarvis\\" et elle comporte neuf ouvrages - et il a vcu plus de vingt ans en Angleterre. Un jour d't torride, il revient  Paris pour la premire fois et il prouve un sentiment d'irralit au milieu d'une ville qui lui parat fantomatique. Il lui semble que vingt ans de sa vie sont d'un coup abolies, qu'il revient au point de dpart, comme si Ambrose Guise n'existait plus dans la poussire et la chaleur de Paris. Il se rend compte qu'il doit considrer dsormais Paris comme n'importe quelle ville trangre. <br />Ce qui a motiv Ambrose Guise  revenir  Paris est un rendez-vous avec Yoko Tatsuk qui travaille pour une maison d'dition japonaise. Celle-ci souhaite en effet acheter les droits d'auteur pour la srie \\"Jarvis\\" au Japon. <br />Le lecteur dcouvre alors qu'Ambrose Guise est mari, qu'il a deux enfants et que son succs littraire considrable lui permet de vivre dans la largesse. Pourtant il existe certains faits obscures dans le pass de cet homme qui vont rapidement intriguer le lecteur lorsque Guise dcide d' \\"essayer de rsoudre toutes les questions qui sont demeures en suspens\\". Ambrose Guise n'est-il pas en ralit Jean Dekker? Pourquoi un avocat, Daniel de Rocroy, lui assure-t-il dans une lettre crite il y a dix ans qu'il peut compter sur sa discrtion, que \\"Jean Dekker n'existe plus\\", qu'il n'a pas l'honneur de connatre Ambrose Guise et qu' Paris personne ne sait qu'il est devenu Ambrose Guise? Pourquoi lui promet-il que les gens qui ont t tmoins de ses dbuts dans la vie vont peu  peu disparatre? Et pourquoi Daniel de Rocroy s'est-il donn la mort il y a cinq ans  son domicile? <br />Un des meilleurs livres de Patrick Modiano, avec peut-tre un peu plus d'action et d'intrigue que dans ses autres romans.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	R3EWQ9OT0GO1IJ	2246150027	325930776	Lewis et Irne	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Le coeur et l'argent vont de pair!	Lewis, \\"pratique et fou, positif et nvros\\", est membre du Conseil d'administration de la Banque Franco-Africaine. Possdant la majorit des actions, Lewis dirige l'tablissement et ses filiales pratiquement sans contrle. Un jour il apprend qu'Arsenio Pastafina, aprs avoir effectu de soigneuses prospections, a dcouvert dans la commune sicilienne de San Lucido un riche gisement de soufre et de sel. Ne pouvant exploiter lui-mme, Pastafina dcide de mettre le terrain en vente pour mille livres sterling. Lewis rdige alors un projet de contrat pour l'exploitation des gisements de San Lucido qu'il acquiert sans difficult puisqu'il possde la premire option d'achat. C'est alors que surgit Irne Apostolatos, un des membres dirigeant de la Banque Apostolatos de Trieste, et annonce  Lewis qu'elle possde une deuxime option sur les gisements San Lucido. Irne propose  Lewis de lui racheter ses gisements. Mais Lewis ne souponne gure quelles seront les consquences de son refus... <br />Un excellent aperu de l'poque des annes vingt.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	R2ZS8S2DNRJKS2	0345358473	722594862	Solitude:  A Return to the Self	Books	5	23	27	N	N	A valuable study of solitude	Dr Storr's book about solitude is very edifying. It is interesting to learn how many people of genius were lonely-goers: their creative talent, their mental instability and their incapacity for making satisfying personal relationships are closely linked. Such famous people as Descartes, Newton, Locke, Pascal, Spinoza, Kant, Leibniz, Schopenhauer, Nietsche, Kierkegaard, Kafka or Wittgenstein were all lonely people without necessarily being unhappy. These people were great thinkers and it is remarkable to see that thinking is essentially a solitary activity. The capacity to be alone is necessary for the brain to function at its best and it is also an aspect of emotional maturity. Learning, thinking, creating and maintaining contact with one's inner world are all facilitated by solitude. Great religious figures also have recognised that solitude promotes insight. Buddha, Jesus, St Matthew, St Luke and Mahomet all spent part of their existence in some sort of retreat. They all understood that solitude allows to escape from the pressure of ordinary life and is a way of spiritual renewal. It may well be that monastic seclusion and the absence of close personal ties in such institutions not only facilitate the individual's relation with God, but also fosters scholarship. <br />Solitude is a sign of inner security rather than the expression of a withdrawn state. It also appears probable that those who prefer to be alone are more at ease with inanimate objects or with abstract concepts than they are with other people. This need to be alone is derived from or is enhanced by some degree of insecure attachment in early childhood. This was the case of people like Rudyard Kipling, H. H. Munro, P. G. Wodehouse or George Simenon. For them, the process of creation was a way of protecting themselves against being overwhelmed by depression. Their interests take over some of the functions more usually performed by intimate relationships. Because the higher reaches of abstraction require long periods of solitude and intense concentration which are hard to achieve if one has to meet the emotional demands of friends or a wife and children. And it is a consolation to learn that people living in a secluded manner do not suffer at all because interpersonal relationships are not the only way of finding emotional fulfilment. <br />Dr Storr also devotes a fascinating chapter to enforced solitude and the harrowing effects that solitary confinement can have on the human mind. He quotes Francis Bacon: \\"The worst solitude is to be destitute fo sincere friendship\\". <br />Dr Storr's study of solitude is a marvellous book, very readable even for the layman in psychology and very instructive too.	2004-08-06
US	36232108	RD4SXCJ7Y7KUS	0743220587	223768498	Wildcard	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Well-wrought and unnerving	Humphrey James Barclay is onboard a flight from Ndanga to London when he starts bleeding uncontrollably, passing out almost immediately. Among the passengers is Dr Palmer who diagnoses haemorrhagic fever, one of its from being known as Ebola, an extremely contagious disease. Although every precaution is taken after the plane has landed in Heathrow, several passengers, Dr Palmer and a stewardess die a few days later of the same symptoms as Barclay because they had come close to the sick man without any protection. Dr Steven Dunbar, a Sci-Med investigator, is commissioned to investigate the case and when a post-mortem is performed on Barclay's body, a filovirus is discovered as being the cause for his haemorrhagic fever. However, this is surprising because scientists agree on the fact that there is no haemorrhagic fever in Ndanga. Even more surprising is the fact that a young woman, Ann Danby, is found dead in her flat in Manchester, also having succumbed to haemorrhagic fever. As more and more cases are reported with completely unrelated patients throughout the British Isles, a race against time starts for Dr Dunbar and his colleagues to find and eradicate the mysterious disease. <br />An entertaining medical thriller in the same vein as Michael Palmer or Robin Cook.	2004-07-30
US	36232108	R1F291ON7CGML3	0613683757	904474772	Portrait of Mrs. Charbuque	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Not really &quot;Hitchcockian suspense&quot;	Piero Piambotto, &quot;Piambo&quot;, is one of the most sought after portraitists in New York in the middle of the 19th century. One day he is accosted by one blind Watkin telling him that his employer wants to commission him to paint her portrait. Provided that he manages to disengage himself from his current promises at once, Watkin's employer is willing to pay Piambo three times as much as he would have earned with his other engagements. Piambo agrees and he is soon to meet the mysterious Mrs Chrabuque at her place. She appears behind a screen and explains to Piambo that he will have to paint her without ever being allowed to cast an eye on her. He will be allowed to visit Mrs Chrabuque for an hour daily and from the information she will give him, he will have to construct in his mind an image of her and paint her. If Piambo manages to capture her likeness, she is ready to double the already overwhelming money she is willing to pay him. <br /> The idea for the plot of this novel is excellent and it would have been interesting to follow the painter's mind to see how he succeeds in actually picturing a face he is not allowed to see. Unfortunately, Piambo is soon drawn into an adventure with Shenz, a fellow artist, who persuades him to try to cheat and find a way to discover what Mrs Charbuque looks like. Then there Mrs Charbuque's long narrative about her father being a crystalogogist and his science of reading snow flakes. In the end there is so much mysticism that the topic of art and painting slides into the background as we watch Piambo being involved, as he states himself, into an &quot;affair resembling a convoluted dream shattered by waking&quot; which poses the question of the credibility of the whole plot.	2004-07-30
US	36232108	R36PXV5L2D302S	0140118861	446643008	Village by the Sea	Books	5	37	37	N	N	A very moving story	Anita Desai's wonderful novel tells the story of a family living in the small fishing village of Thul, 14 kilometres from Bombay, India. It is more precisely the story of two young people, Hari, a boy of 14, and Lila, a girl of 13, with a will to survive. Their task is not easy. Lila has to look after their mother who is very ill with fever and requires constant care. She is also in charge of all the household chores and has to look after their two younger sisters, Bela and Kamal. Hari on the other hand has to work in the fields, selling whatever he can at the market to feed the family. Indeed, their father has long ceased to be a fisherman, his sole occupation being to get drunk on toddy every night along with his chums in the village. <br /> Fortunately, next to their hut is a large country house called Mon Repos which is owned by the de Silvas from Bombay and whenever they come on holiday to Thul, Lila and Hari can earn some extra money by helping with the household or doing work in the garden. But there is a rumour in the village saying that soon the rice fields and the coconut groves will be replaced by a large fertiliser factory. The location of Thul was chosen by the Government for its closeness to the port of Rewas. So new highways and railway lines are to be build and the villagers are worried about their future. Are they skilled enough to get a job at the factory? What will become of their traditional way of life? Will the air and the sea be polluted by chemicals? When a delegation is sent to Bombay to express their worries to the Minister Sahib, Hari decides to join the party. Before leaving, he decides that Bombay may offer him a better life opportunity than his frightened sisters, his sad house, his ill mother and his drunken father. And it is indeed in Bombay where this delicate boy, who	2004-07-30
US	36232108	R3H3PT870BMCO2	0140241779	734441413	Dusklands	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Dark and incisive	&quot;Dusklands&quot; consists of two very different parts. In &quot;The Vietnam Project&quot;, Mr Coetzee tells the story of Eugene Dawn, a specialist in psychological warfare whose task it is to establish a document called the Vietnam Project dealing with the so-called Phase IV of the Vietnam conflict in the years 1973-1974. To give his imagination a helpful impulse, Dawn carries with him photographs that will illustrate the report. They show gruesome scenes of the war like for example sergeant Clifford Houston copulating with a Vietnamese woman or two other sergeants, Berry and Wilson, posing with several severed Vietnamese heads as trophies. But soon Dawn is driven to breakdown and madness by the stress of this macabre project to win the war in Vietnam. After having been driven to a nearly fatal assault on his child Martin, Dawn is placed in an institution. The text closes with Dawn reflecting as follows: &quot;I have high hopes of finding whose fault I am.&quot; <br /> &quot;The narrative of Jacobus Coetzee&quot; is actually a translation from Afrikaans by J.M. Coetzee of a text published in 1762. It is the account of a hideous vengeance of a frontiersman on a tribe of Hottentots in South Africa. <br /> Both Eugene Dawn in the 1970s and Jacobus Coetzee in the 1760s are dealers in death who claim their humanity and impressively express their feelings of guilt.	2004-07-30
US	36232108	RNWK843SJLAQB	3471793070	828207438	Hunger.	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An impressive novel	Knut Hamsun's novel tells the story of a young writer living in Christiana (nowadays Oslo) in Norway at the end of the 19th century. As it was extremely difficult for him to make a living from the few newspaper articles he managed to sell for a few kroner, he constantly lived on the verge of famine. Very often his psyche was badly affected by numerous refusals, hopes built up and knocked down so that he often lost courage. His extreme poverty forced the writer to live in rooms &quot;not furnished in a way appropriate to intellectual effort&quot; which also had a negative impact on his literary muse. <br /> Hamsun never mentions his hero's name; it is as if he were a perpetual foreigner in his surroundings and his hunger transforms him into a sociopath: he is famished not because he cannot find a job in Christiana but because he is stubbornly determined to live from his writing, although he is just a beginner. His loneliness is the consequence both of his constant striving for food and for inspiration and his inability to make friends because he has no patience for others. Another interesting aspect is the young writer's ambiguous feeling towards God whom he both fears and curses for his fate, but destiny neither provides him with inspiration nor allows him to die; he is constantly saved by temporary deliverance - an editor accepts one of his articles, he is paid five kroner and he is saved for a few days until the ordeal begins again. The hero is so estranged from his environment that he emerges almost lifeless. He has no plans for the future, expecting some happy chance, almost always resigned and melancholy. The young writer is nothing but a chain of moods changing constantly, often without consistency. He doubts the existence of God, yet he prays to Him. He loves yet at the same time belittles this love. He strives for literary revelation yet he is frivolous in his approach to literature. <br /> The power of &quot;Hunger&quot; is that doubt found in Hamsun its narrator par excellence.	2004-07-26
US	36232108	R3BKAJHIBTO0RM	0091031508	572153738	A state of Denmark; or, A warning to the incurious: A novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A haunting novel	Richard Watt and Magda Carson, both British, have been peacefully living on their farm, La Vigna di Giobbe, in Tuscany, for several years. Though their life appears to be idyllic given the setting and the climate, they both have to work hard growing vegetables and fruit, producing wine and olive oil in order to make both ends meet. But why did Richard decide to leave his fatherland and emigrate to Italy? The reason for this matter may seem slightly utopian at first glance but Mr Cook manages to describe the situation so masterfully that it is utterly believable - even more so, considering what we know today about the former East-European countries. Indeed, Richard used to be a journalist at the time when a certain Jobling was Prime Minister. Richard was made redundant when he predicted that Jobling, for fear of being thrown out at the next election, would simply announce that he was going to rule by himself. And indeed, it turned out that there was practically nothing to stop him, making Richard's prediction true. After a particularly vitriolic TV interview, Jobling won the election just the same and Richard was put on a blacklist so that he couldn't afford to live in Britain anymore. But Jobling isn't about to forget Richard Watt and he finds out means to extradite him. For Richard, being forced to return to Britain, now a crumbling and decaying totalitarian state, will prove, as you may guess, to be fatal. <br /> A harrowing and powerful account,	2004-07-23
US	36232108	R27GBCXMSRFTAY	0684196662	545611258	A Hovering of Vultures	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good whodunit	What better victim in a Robert Barnard mystery than a literary poseur? And what better place to find such character than a society set up in the honour of the dubiously talented authors Susannah and Joshua Sneddon? <br />These two authors toiled in the early years of the 20th century at their creative tasks in a remote cottage of Mikelwike, a small village in Yorkshire. Neither wrote masterpieces but Susanna's books were always more popular than her brother's. That's perhaps why Joshua one day killed his sister with an axe and then shot himself in the head. <br />Many years later, there is a renewed interest in the Sneddons, inspired by entrepreneur Gerald Suzman. He bought the Sneddon cottage, with plans to open a museum and to found a literary society called the Sneddon Fellowship. Sneddon enthusiasts from as far away as America, Norway and Japan gather at Suzman's invitation for the inauguration of the society during a Sneddon Weekend. DC Charlie Peace joins the party, intrigued by Suzman's unexpected literary interest in the Sneddond. Suzman's history shows a far greater penchant for wealth than literature, so he must have discovered a source of profit in the Fellowship. But where? <br />Charlie fears that an elderly American lady called Lettie Farraday may know too much for her own good. Lettie, who has returned to Mikelwike, the village of her birth, for the first time in fifty years, is the only conferee who personally knew the Sneddons. Too much knowledge may be dangerous...	2004-07-23
US	36232108	R2VQ5IUI19P0KS	0807029270	317326626	The Man with the Beautiful Voice: And More Stories from the Other Side of the Couch	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Beautifully crafted short stories	Dr Rubin's stories are drawn from her clinical practice and her experience with her patients. The reader meets Eve Gordon who endured a harrowing childhood with her alcoholic parents; now 39, she lives a life of virtual isolation and desperately wants to become her therapist's friend. Many sessions are spent with Eve curled up in the corner of the practice without uttering a single word. Bruce Marins, a cripple - a &quot;Thalidomide baby&quot;, a drug taken by his mother to cure her morning sickness - who rejects sympathy as being patronising, who feels anger and distrust of people around him and who sees deceit, pity and rejection wherever he turns. As Dr Rubin is about to greet Bonnie Paulsen and Jerry Stillman in her office, she is far from picturing the way these two patients are going to deceive her with their egregious lies and carefully plotted hoax - &quot;How easily any patient can defeat even the most artful and accomplished therapist.&quot; she writes! Jake Garvin suffers from manic-depressive psychosis and so needs help because he's having trouble writing his dissertation for his degree. This is all the more urgent since the two job offers Jake has received depend on his finishing his dissertation. A case which will unfortunately end very tragically. Richard Durbin and Valerie Goldner are a yuppie couple. But why does Richard stubbornly refuse to have a child with Valerie? What mysterious event in his past makes him refuse to become a father? And finally there is the case of Delfina Ortega, a Mexican American, who was pregnant at 16, then became an excellent high school student graduating near the top of her class, who was subsequently awarded full scholarship to the university and then, when she was accepted to a graduate programme in Latin American history, she falls into a panic attack. <br /> Dr Rubin's cases are a wonderful read for those of us who are mere laymen in the field of psychology.	2004-07-23
US	36232108	R2O8H3FP33QVAA	0374281971	566394281	The City of Your Final Destination	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A subtle, tender and evocative novel	Omar Razaghi left Iran with his parents at the age of ten and moved to Canada. At the beginning of the novel, he is in his mid twenties and has been awarded a stipend by the University of Kansas Press to fund the publication of a biography of Jules Gund, the author of a single work of fiction called &quot;The Gondola&quot;. But before Omar can start doing research for the biography, he needs the authorisation of the Gund literary trust which consists of three people: Caroline and Adam Gund and Arden Langdon, all three living in Ochos Rios, Uruguay. After having written to the trustees, Omar receives their disappointing answer: they refuse to grant him the authorisation he needs for the biography. Being a rather hesitant and indecisive young man - perhaps the archetype of the doctoral student in literature - Omar is about to give up his plans when he is convinced by his buoyant girlfriend Deidre that it is his duty not to abate, not to abandon his literary project. At this point the reader's mind is already full of questions: why don't the trustees want to grant the permission? Is there some aspect of Jules Gund's life that they want to keep secret for ever? Will Omar - considering his character - be able to change their mind?   Mr Cameron's novel features subtle dialogue, reflections about love, loss, grief, posterity. The descriptions of Ochos Rios, a languid and dreamy place, are superb. Even though the atmosphere is at times as heavy as the humid air of the jungle, wit and comedy still find their place in this superbly crafted novel.	2004-07-20
US	36232108	RFNIF404LLI4G	0434335061	342514148	Two Faces of January	Books	4	16	17	N	N	An absorbing suspense novel	Chester Mc Farland, a clever swindler and defrauder, is travelling in Greece with his wife Colette. They are about to arrive in Athens and settle into The King's Palace.   Another American also present in Athens at the same time is Rydal Keener. He is spending several months in Europe on what money he inherited from his grandmother.   It is when Rydal sees Chester at the Benaki Museum for the first time that his resemblance to Rydal's father's twin brother strikes him. Rydal then decides to keep an eye on Chester. A few days later, Chester gets the unpleasant visit of a Greek police officer who informs him that he is working in co-operation with the American authorities. The latter are apparently more and more interested in Chester's shady past. Realising that he may well be arrested and extradited, Chester hits the policeman who then stumbles and falls, banging his head against the bathtub. A fatal blow. Chester immediately understands that he must hide the body in a small store-room down the corridor. It is at the precise moment when Chester is dragging the corps in the corridor that Rydal appears on the landing and witnesses Chester's act. Will Rydal help or blackmail Chester?   As good as &quot;Strangers on a train&quot; or the Ripley series by the same author.	2004-07-20
US	36232108	R1F51CLKLOLIWR	0312420811	180610521	The Collected Stories of Richard Yates: Short Fiction from the author of Revolutionary Road	Books	3	6	14	N	N	A large repertoire of stories	Mr Yates's stories deal with a variety of situations, most of which we as readers have experienced in life ourselves. There are the teenagers and their reluctance to accept the authority of their teachers or parents, the loss of freedom resulting from marriage, the pain people can feel, both physical and emotional, memories from childhood or the army. There are the inevitable haunted, vulnerable and dependent characters. In some short stories, writers appear, too: &quot;Writers who write about writers can bring on the worst kind of miscarriage.&quot; writes one of them! There is the pleasure given to children by their father?s visitation days, his hugs and their smells of linen, whisky and tobacco. In the stories collected under the title &quot;Liars in Love&quot;, couples separating is a frequent - almost repetitive - topic. It seems to me that once you have reached a certain age and experience in life, Mr Yates's prose simply confirms your own feelings and seems, not downright commonplace, but lacking in originality. In this literary genre, it is my opinion that Raymond Carver, Nadine Gordimer or Jhumpa Lahiri are more enjoyable authors.	2004-07-20
US	36232108	R1NL9XW0N1RA6O	0792711793	969122148	Patrimony: A True Story (Curley Large Print Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A moving work	This novel was called &quot;A True Story&quot; by Mr Roth. Indeed, many parts in &quot;Patrimony&quot; have a personal tone. The author talks about his mother's sudden death in a restaurant in 1981 and about the sad and painful last year of his father's life. Herman Roth was diagnosed with a massive brain tumou so that little by little he became more and more disabled and needed constant attention. It is impressive to see the author's devotion and attention to his ageing father, all the more since his condition required an almost constant care. One also feels the father's shame and embarrassment as his physical condition worsens.   Mr Roth manages to create an irrepressible and irresistible hero, his father.	2004-07-20
US	36232108	R3L5Y56NC9G2PV	0606154949	335981463	Critical Judgment	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic Michael Palmer	Dr Abby Dolan moved to Patience, California, to work at the Regional Hospital because her fianc? Josh found work at Colstar International in the same town. Colstar is the largest producer of portable power sources and they specialise in producing several types of batteries. Truly enough, Patience owes its wealth to this large company. After about five weeks in Patience, Abby notices that Josh is becoming irritable, distracted, easily fatigued and more and more frequently suffers from violent headaches which make him reach for the bottle, something he never used to do before. Furthermore, several patients treated by Abby seem to suffer from the same symptoms as Josh. After having had their blood analysed by an independent laboratory, it appears that these patients were all contaminated by cadmium. Colstar refuses to locate the source of the contamination because it would cost them too much to close the plant for any length of time. When Abby's investigations become too pressing, the director of Patience Regional Hospital, Joe Henderson, asks her to resign, menacing her with the falsified report on the death of one of her patients, Peggy Wheaton. But it is only when one night, returning home from work, Abby is shot at several times that she understands that the threat from Colstar is not to be taken lightly... <br />A very good medical thriller.	2004-07-20
US	36232108	R2OYPVZVJ0SS4M	1589639596	732582907	Dreams of Chang and Other Stories, The	Books	5	1	1	N	N	In the same tradition as Anton Chekhov or L.N. Tolstoi	In Ivan Bunin's collection of nine short stories, the reader gets acquainted with various human destinies which resemble the violent storms of inland Russia. There are the two unnamed passengers who meet again after 23 years on a steamer, one of them being terminally ill. There's Ermil, a poor soul easily scared living in an isolated isba, who kills Makhor, a villager, out of fear. And Ilia Kapitonov, lost in a foggy night, who can't help seing his son dying of exhaustion. There is Voieikov spending his last day on the farm he was compelled to sell because of bankruptcy. And who will help old and diseased Averki return back home to die in peace? Then there is Arsenitch, returning every winter to an old inn where he once was a ma?tre d'h?tel and met a stunningly beautiful courtesan, Adele. Boroda, Fedia and Kiriousha all enjoy an immense glory in spite of being half-crazy, incompetent cretins! As Adam Sokolovitch claims that the urge to kill is deeply rooted in every human mind, the reader soon discovers how earnestly these words have to be taken. There is Ardei, always worried, although, as he states, &quot;For Heaven's sake, nothing has ever happened to me.&quot; And finally one narrator, staring into the night, admiring the &quot;silent stars&quot; and wondering why his mind is perpetually anguished and tormented - in the end coming to the conclusion that it must be due to one's lifelong struggle against death.	2004-06-23
US	36232108	R34Q3P7E0N3W7L	0312421540	763984396	Little Infamies: Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful short stories	These strikingly original short stories are set in a small village in Greece, &quot;so poor it doesn't have a name&quot;. They are extraordinary: shocking, colourful, amusing, resonant and sometimes tragic. Although Panos Karnezis writes in his second language, his style is fresh and lyrical and he has enriched and subverted English making it into a delight to read. He has created unforgettable characters and has cast a sharp eye on contemporary Greece. He is a master of the genre, like James Joyce, Raymond Carver or Guy de Maupassant.	2004-06-23
US	36232108	R3VMZ4F44PLI4N	0571216315	291857483	Invention of Dr Cake	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A brilliant and intriguig novella	This short novel is based on a report written by a doctor called William Tabor who sets off to meet Dr John Cake in Halstead near Woodham, shortly before the latter's death on 17 August 1844. Dr Cake is a frail man suffering from tuberculosis but his intellectual strength is still intact. Both men's passion is poetry and the conversation unfolds around great poets like Wordsworth, Coleridge, Shelly or Keats. But it is when Dr Cake expresses some doubts about Keats's death that the two men start reflecting on the afterlife of poets. What if Keats had decided to stage his own disappearance and continued to live under another identity? Strangely enough, like Keats, Dr Cake was born in 1795, went to school near London, started working as a doctor and then gave it up to devote himself to poetry. And why was Dr Cake buried with no name on the brass plate screwed on his coffin-lid? Perhaps &quot;Dr Cake&quot; is an invention after all...	2004-06-17
US	36232108	R3UXY2BHA5CU68	0753118009	340784574	Medusa	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Aurelio Zen's new case	This case takes inspector Aurelio Zen to the Dolomites to the site where a body has been found in an abandoned military tunnel. With the help of Rudi Redel, Zen treads carefully to the place where the supposed suicide took place. However, evidence shows that other people must have been present in the tunnel so Zen must assume that a murder cannot be excluded. The situation becomes even more intricate when the still unidentified body is stolen from the morgue at the Defence Ministry! All the usual ingredients in Mr Dibdin's latest murder mystery: excellent suspense, a sympathetic Aurelio Zen (with a new girlfriend!) and plenty of ironical and amusing observations about our beloved Italy. Michael Tudor Barnes's fantastic reading is well worth buying this audiobook.	2004-06-11
US	36232108	R2G0MM09MGG6EY	1900850125	381761534	Night Letters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent, brilliant, a tour de force!	An Australian man diagnosed with HIV undertakes a journey to Switzerland and Northern Italy. As the narrator travels along, he encounters different characters and from these meetings emerge lovely dialogues and stories. He visits Patricia Highsmith in Tegna and they talk about Ripley and Ruth Rendell, he meets Rachel Berg with her stunning story of the &quot;Baroness de St Leger and the Golden Amulet&quot;. There is Professors Eschenbaum's ebullient narration of &quot;The Disappearing Courtesan&quot; in Venice. The various dialogues of the protagonists about literature, architecture, society and history undoubtedly show what an erudite author Mr Dessaix is. But because the narrator is HIV positive, there are also many reflections throughout the novel linked to the disease. His relationship to his friend Peter, for example, who doesn't blame him for having chosen an adventurous way of life. The fact that the narrator knows not only - as we all do - that he is going to die but that he is going to do so in the near future changes his perception of time. &quot;Time now is for beguiling, not for spending profitably&quot; he says. He also dwells on the concept of solitude compared to loneliness, abandonment or desertion. He feels that certain acquaintances are to be enjoyed and then simply to be moved on from. The narrator also refuses to start crafting the approaching end of his life and states that it is essential to invest with meaning the moment we're living through. And then there is the closing idea of this remarkable novel that kindness is undervalued and that we shouldn't want to live without it.	2004-06-11
US	36232108	R2K38NEJ9NWOPB	0345451902	354796806	The Last Detective	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Suspenseful	Elvis Cole is once again coming to terms with his life as a private eye in the streets of Los Angeles. He loves his girlfriend Lucy Chenier, but their relationship is stretched to the limit when Cole's job brings danger very close her beloved son Ben. When Ben is snatched from Cole's secluded home, the demons from Elvis's past catch up with him. The kidnappers want retribution for an incident that happened twenty years ago in Vietnam. Now Elvis must embark on a journey into his past to protect his future...	2004-06-04
US	36232108	RQYW97PRBR2L2	1569473625	835044860	Since the Layoffs	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A dark, satirical comedy	Jake Skowran lives in a small town which has been badly affected since its large factory closed down a few months earlier. Like many other people, Jake is unemployed after having been laid off and lives on government benefits. Jake owes quite a large sum to Ken Gardocki, a bookie selling drugs and guns. Just as Jake is about to get a job at the town's &quot;Gas 'n' Go&quot; store for $ 5.75 an hour, Gardocki proposes to hire him as a hit man to kill his wife Corinne for five thousand dollars. Yet Jake does not know how his decision to accept Gardocki's offer will change his life for ever... If you are an angry and susceptible unemployed worker with access to weapons, this may not be a suitable reading for you!	2004-06-02
US	36232108	R2IHVWVFGCMZSU	0525945512	293422350	Chang and Eng	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An evocative story	Mr Strauss's story about the two Siamese twins Chang and Eng Bunker, linked at the chest, did actually live between 1811 and 1874. They were born in Siam, they met the King of Siam, they came to America and became celebrities, they married two sisters and were fathers of 21 children and lead a life as farmers in Wilkesboro, North Carolina. Mr Strauss's novel is not ruled by historical facts and thus most of its characters and situations are the product of his imagination, making &quot;Chang and Eng&quot; a true work of fiction. The author thoughtfully explores the questions of union and separation, of individual identity and of the means one has to share and protect one's identity.	2004-06-02
US	36232108	R2S6H8R3Y0TVUT	0375414983	89263190	My Life as a Fake	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A compelling novel	Sarah Elizabeth Jane is an editor with &quot;The Modern Review&quot;. When her friend the novelist John Slater suggests that she joins him on a trip to Kuala Lumpur, Sarah does not know the maze she is about to enter, &quot;from which, thirteen years later, I haven't yet escaped&quot; as she puts it. Shortly after their arrival in Kuala Lumpur, Sarah makes the acquaintance of an Australian in a shabby bicycle repair shop in Jalan Campbell, a man called Christopher Chubb. She soon finds out that he is the villain in the McCorkle Hoax dating back to 1946. Chubb gave birth to a phantom poet called &quot;Bob McCorkle&quot; who never existed but whom the Australian gave a life, a death and a biography. He then delivered a collection of poems called &quot;Personae&quot; to editor David Weiss, a man profoundly detested by Chubb since their common schooldays at Forest Street. Sarah is speechless as Chubb mockingly recites a passage from a poem called &quot;Swamps&quot;: &quot;Areas of stagnant water serve / As breeding grounds...&quot;, a passage Chubb had copied from an army manual of mosquito eradication! When Weiss published &quot;Personae&quot;, he was arrested and prosecuted for &quot;obscenity&quot;. As Sarah listens to the beginning of Chubb's account of his life, she is drawn into his harrowing narration. Chubb has a kind of magnetic effect on her and she can't resist wanting to learn more about Chubb's past, a maze of events on the verge of credibility. A beautifully crafted piece of storytelling, a powerful work of fiction, Mr Carey's narrative is fast, furious and haunting.	2004-05-24
US	36232108	RLZDI2W5TWG2M	0375714162	410109769	The Pieces from Berlin	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A fair accomplishment	Berlin during World War II. A Swiss lady, Lucia Muller-Rossi, struggles along to make a living as a mistress to an ambassador and raise her son Nicholas. But soon Lucia discovers a new source of income: she becomes the guardian of all the lovely things - furniture, china, jewellery - that the Jews were forced to dispose of before being led to the death camps. Being Swiss, Lucia has no trouble at all leaving Germany and returning to Zurich, thus making the antiques her own property. Sixty years later, the owner of a small table happens to pass by the window of Lucia's shop ...<br>&quot;The Pieces from Berlin&quot; can be read like a suspense story in which the reader glimpses the truth here and there as Mr Pye's characters struggle to answer the questions that thread through their lives: what are their obligations to their family members and to what lengths are they allowed to go to protect them? Like memories, the plot in this novel is a jigsaw puzzle which will eventually be completed in the denouement as the pieces neatly fall into place.	2004-05-24
US	36232108	R2Y1QGW111G8P1	0312204094	184001758	Gain	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A powerful novel	In this heart-wrenching and epic novel, Mr Powers tells two parallel stories both set in the town of Lacewood, Illinois. The first one is about Laura Rowen Bodey, divorced mother of Ellen, aged seventeen, and Tim, aged twelve. Laura is a successful real-estate agent at Next Millennium Realty. But one day, doctors tell Laura that she has ovarian cancer. The other story is about a company begun by three merchant brothers in the 1850s in Boston, Clare Soap and Chemical. By the turn of the Millennium, this company has turned into a large multiconglomerate with factories in Lacewood, Laura Bodey's hometown. A powerful, subtle and provocative novel accurately depicting the messianism of corporate America. Laura's story is one of the excruciating depth of vulnerability whereas the one about Clare Chemicals shows Mr Powers' horizon-busting breath of knowledge. His prose is erudite, penetrating and splendidly written.	2004-05-24
US	36232108	R3HYQ4OTBD2IET	1856958906	713537321	Cabal	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another great mystery with Aurelio Zen	One dark night in November, Prince Ludovico Ruspanti falls a hundred and fifty feet to his death in St Peter's basilica in Rome. But there are a number of questions to be answered: what was he doing in the Vatican? Why was he being followed? Did he fall or was he pushed? The papal authorities contact the Criminalpol and so Inspector Aurelio Zen is put on the case.  As Zen investigated deeper into the mystery of Ruspanti's death, he finds witness after witness strangely silenced by death. Zen soon discovers that he will never crack the case until he has penetrated the most secret of all secret societies - the Cabal.  The combination between an intriguing twistiness of the mystery story and sharply angled perspectives on contemporary Italy is simply superb.  Michael Tudor Barnes's performance in this audio book is quite stunning!	2004-05-24
US	36232108	R3GQJOT517H3QO	0060575557	72383166	Buying a Fishing Rod for My Grandfather: Stories	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Crisp short stories	Gao Xingjian uses small events occurring in daily life such as the visit of a decaying temple by a young couple, a road accident involving a father and a his young child, a swimmer suffering from a sudden pain or conversation in a park to deal with topics which he cherishes: the lost innocence of youth, the quest for an environment ruined by modern architecture or the nostalgia for a lost tenderness that only a father or grandfather could provide. Often there is no plot in those short stories, but a simple succession of images, impressions, dreams and thoughts. An author well worth discovering.	2004-05-11
US	36232108	RHDQTVEWEEB9X	014018595X	703596555	The Magician	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Complex and perceptive	This novel is based on a character whom Somerset Maugham met in Paris in 1897 called Aleistair Crowley. He was a liar, a boastful man and a voluminous writer of mediocre verse. He was also dabbing in Satanism, magic and occult. He inspired Somerset Maugham and served as a model for Oliver Haddo in &quot;The Magician&quot;.<br /> Arthur Burdon, surgeon of St Luke's in London, has just arrived in Paris to study the methods of the French operators. But he has also come there to see Margaret Dauncy with whom he is in love. It is Dr Porhoet, a lifetime friend of Arthur's, who introduces him to Oliver Haddo. This obese, fleshy-faced man with an imposing paunch claims to be a magician. At a dinner party, the guests can hardly believe the stories told by this charlatan. They wonder whether he is an impostor or a madman and how much he really believes what he says. Does he deceive himself or is he laughing up his sleeve at the madness of those who take him seriously? To Arthur's bewilderment, as he is about to marry Margaret, she falls under the spell of Oliver Haddo and flees with him. Yet Arthur can hardly picture into what abyss of horror and evil Margaret will be driven.<br /> A complex and perceptive novel. The theme of evil is perfectly woven into a story stunning for its action and vivid characters.<br /> I recommend the audio version from Audible.com. Listening to Frederick Davidson reading &quot;The Magician&quot; is a pure delight!	2004-05-10
US	36232108	R1ZM1I2NR2CV4	0060536969	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good technological thriller	Jack Forman used to run a program division at MediaTronics, supervising a group of young and talented computer programmers. After Jack's division's source code had been stolen, his boss Don Gross put him in charge of security. But then Jack found out that certain &quot;irregularities&quot; took place at MediaTronics and, advised by his attorney Gary Marder, resigned from his job and became a &quot;househusband&quot;. Now he is coping with all the chores at home, looking after his three children.   Jack's wife Julia works for Xymos Technology, developing technology in what the company calls &quot;molecular manufacturing&quot; or nanotechnology. Since she is the vice president, she is not often present at home.   The plot starts picking up when Julia is severely injured in a car accident, the circumstances of which seem rather mysterious. At the same time, Jack is asked by Tim Bergman to take a consulting job with Xymos. But when Jack joins Xymos at an isolated, sate-of-the-art facility in Nevada, he soon discovers that the technology the company is doing research on is far from flawless...   Perfect suspense combined with lots of technology, this is one of Mr Crichton's most entertaining novels.   George Wilson reading &quot;Prey&quot; is a remarkable performance. I highly recommend this audiobook.	2004-05-10
US	36232108	R1V2PFIMQMWKH4	0451077679	158144239	The Confessions of Nat Turner	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Magnificent	In August 1831, in a remote region of south-eastern Virginia, took place the only effective and sustained revolt in the history of American Negro slavery. That year, a black man, Nat Turner, awaits death in a prison cell. He is a slave, a preacher and the leader of the revolt. Mr Styron based his novel on the single significant contemporary document concerning this insurrection, namely a brief pamphlet of twenty pages called &quot;The Confessions of Nat Turner&quot;, published in Richmond in 1831. The confession Turner made to his jailers under the duress of his God is a narrative describing a good man's transformation into an avenging angel even as it encompasses all the betrayals, cruelties and humiliations that made up slavery - and that is still present in the collective psyches of both races.   This magnificent book brilliantly depicts the American past in a dazzling narrative.	2004-05-06
US	36232108	R17TYA6DIBLQ41	0452283973	838675611	The Impressionist	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A remarkable first novel	Ronald Forrester is an English forester in Simla, India, where he came to see what life was like in, ironically, a country without trees. In 1918 during a violent storm which floods the country, this difficult and taciturn man encounters a young woman called Armrita in a cave. After an expert and violent [adult] scene, the Englishman is killed by the flood and Armrita is taken to Agra to be married to Razdan, a distinguished court pleader who belongs to one of the highest and most distinguished castes in all Hindustan. Some months later, Armrita gives birth to a son, Pran Nath, who is actually Ronald Forrester's child, and dies after delivering the baby. A few years later, when Razdan learns that is son is the &quot;illegitimate child of a casteless, filth eating, left-and-right-hand-confusing Englishman&quot;, he dies of shock. Now an orphan, Pran Nath is thrown out of the house by the chowkidar and becomes one of the many homeless of Agra.   So begins the epic life of a young boy of six in India. His odyssey-like journey will take him from Agra to the red light district of Bombay, then to the brick cloisters of the University of Oxford and finally to Fotseland, in Africa. It is the sad story of a man never understanding who he really is, neither really Indian nor really English, despite all his efforts. Mr Kunzru meditates on the construction of identity, self deprecation, miscegenation and racism in an ambitious and remarkable first novel.	2004-04-28
US	36232108	R3CMLGPD3K2O0M	140003471X	615857333	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A metaphysical murder mystery	A man returns to the town where the murder of Santiago Nasar took place 27 years before. Santiago Nasar got up at five-thirty in the morning on the Monday he was going to be killed by the twins Pedro and Pablo Vicario. The narrator is told by Placida Linero, Santiago Nasar's mother, that within the hour, her 21 year old son would be dead. Why did the twins want to kill the proprietor of The Divine Face, the ranch he had inherited from his father? Why did they chose that particular morning, when the bishop was due to visit the village? Why wasn't Santiago Nasar aware of the fact that somebody had shoved an envelope under the door of his house with a written document warning him that he was going killed, stating in addition the place, the motive and other quite precise details of the plot? How could the murder have been committed despite the fact that nearly all the inhabitants of the town knew that it was inevitably going to happen? The investigation of this murder takes the quality of a hallucinatory exploration into the past. The narrator's quest for the truth leads him into the darkness of human intentions, a truth that perpetually seems to slither away. This small masterpiece is one of the greatest classics of the 20th century.	2004-04-28
US	36232108	R3MYIACIKYM98W	0743249046	864631666	The Body: A Novel	Books	4	1	4	N	N	An impressive collection of short stories	Mr Kureishi's collection of stories opens with &quot;The Body&quot; in which the protagonist, Adam, is an ageing professor of literature and writer. His wife Margot claims that men tend to get &quot;particularly band-tempered, pompous and demanding&quot; when they reach a certain age. Furthermore, one of his students nearly offends Adam when he states that he now looks anything like his picture on the back of his books. All this happens as Adam meets one of his admirers, Ralph, at a party. Ralph explains to Adam that some old - and rich - people are now having their living brains removed and transplanted into the bodies of young dead people. He assures him that the operation has already been performed successfully hundreds of times, as was the case on himself. Finally convinced by the numerous women eyeing Ralph at the party, Adam decides to undergo the operation and selects from a broad variety of dead corpses at the clinic the body of an athletic and very handsome young Italian footballer, settling for a &quot;short term body rental&quot; of six months. The outcome of the operation is successful and so begins for Adam - now Leo - a very surprising new life indeed.   Mr Kureishi's short stories are witty, incisive and funny. He is a keen observer of the human condition and he treats subjects like love, parenthood and the problem of happiness very skilfully.	2004-04-27
US	36232108	R2FN5OUEEKAYD8	0754006808	290995875	Sea Change	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Perfect adventure story	Mr Goddard's novel begins in January 1721. Sir Theodore Janssen, once a financier of legendary acumen, stands on the brink of ruin after the bankruptcy of the South Sea Company.   William Spandrel is also a financial victim of the commercial disaster of the South Sea Company, though on a smaller scale than Sir Theodore. Still, Spandrel owes Sir Theodore a fair amount of money. One day, Spandrel is summoned to go and see Sir Theodore. He offers Spandrel to pay back his debts by acting as his personal courier in a confidential transaction. Spandrel is to deliver a box to Mijnheer Ysbrand de Vried at his home in Amsterdam. As Spandrel departs from Deptford for Holvoetsluys on the &quot;Vixen&quot;, he can't possibly foresee on what a roller coaster journey he has embarked.   As always, Mr Goddard's novel provides first class entertainment with a very well documented historical adventure story. And Paul Shelly reading &quot;Sea Change&quot; is quite an experience to listen to!	2004-04-26
US	36232108	RU340IFLGO7Y1	B00005WAZP	259357267	Love, again : a novel	Books	3	3	8	N	N	A moving book	Sarah Durham is a writer living in London. She is &quot;as the French put it, a woman of a certain age&quot;, 65 more precisely. Her husband Alan died when Sarah was 35 and she has two grown children living in India and in America. Sarah is described by Doris Lessing as &quot;a calm and reasonable&quot; woman. She has a brother, Hal, also living in London, who is married to Anne, both being medical doctors. Sarah often has to look after their troubled daughter Joyce who suffers from anorexia and attempted suicide when she was an adolescent. She now lives a rough life with addicts, pushers and prostitutes.   Sarah is known in the theatre world of the West End as the influential manager of The Green Bird after having been for a long time a badly paid hanger-on to the edges of real theatre. She manages The Green Bird alongside three colleagues forming the Gang of Four: Mary Ford, responsible for publicity and promotion, Roy Strether, stage manager, and Patrick Steele.   As the staff prepare the staging of the new play &quot;Julie Vairon&quot; and the new cast start rehearsing, Sarah slowly falls under the spell of Bill Collins, a beautiful young actor. But somehow, love proves to be more difficult when you are a woman &quot;of a certain age&quot;.	2004-04-26
US	36232108	RFTJG0PZEIXY5	0375724397	350966058	The Abomination: A Novel	Books	2	2	12	N	N	Another first novel	Mr Golding's first novel chronicles the life of Santiago Moore Zamora. He was born in Spain where he lived until he was sent to boarding school in England. Certain passages in this novel are of real interest: Santiago's affection for his nurse Mam?zelle, his solitude in the company of others, his disgust for physical activity, his perception of the futility of social behaviour and his attachment to his teachers which leads to the loss of his virginity. The reader may freely skip parts one and five of Mr Golding's novel, unless he needs to learn that some homosexuals are obsessively preoccupied with their own body and clothing and that because one of their major concerns in life is sex, their bound to be unhappy, their life being an abomination indeed.	2004-04-26
US	36232108	R3USRHIUFR9VU0	0749358165	272500071	Master of Petersburg 24cpy Dumpbi	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A tour de force	The master of Petersburg is Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky. The events described in Mr Coetzee's novel are those which constitute the background and the action of Dostoevsky's &quot;The Devils&quot;.   Fyodor Mikhailovich, travelling under the name of Isaev, returns secretly to St Petersburg in October 1869. Having arrived at 63 Svechnoi Street, he meets Anna Sergeyevna and her daughter Matryona in their apartment. This is the place where is son Pavel Alexandrovich used to reside before his recent death. In deep grief, Fyodor Mikhailovich covers his face with his hands and tears run over his fingers as he discovers his son's room. &quot;I am the one who is dead, he thinks; or rather, I died but my death failed to arrive.&quot; Such are the thoughts that burden Fyodor Mikhailovich's mind as the hunger to talk about his son and to hear others talk about him rises in him. There is no one present to strike his hair, no murmurs of consolation in his ear.   Mr Coetzee places himself between known facts and Dostoevski's fiction, as Fyodor Mikhailovich seeks the truth about his son's death. Indeed, the circumstances of his death remain obscure because Pavel Alexandrovich was the member of a gang lead by Sergei Gennadevich Nechaev. This student anarchist movement became notorious for having murdered one of its own members...   A tour de force, Mr Coetzee's novel reflects on the relation of writers to events. It's also a touching account of a father's deep grief and his painful adjustment to the past of his son. A powerful, subtly written, superb personal testament.	2004-04-05
US	36232108	R1F8AS8HG83FR5	0517170760	789356558	Strange Pilgrims	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Funny, ferocious, moving	Twelve short stories presenting a variety of strange character. There is a former President who is proud to have been long forgotten. Margarito Duarte with his desperate quest to meet the Pope so that he can show him the corpse of his holy daughter. A passenger desperately wanting to talk to a dazzling but sleeping woman on a flight from Paris to New York. Frau Frieda whose profession it is to dream. The Venezuelan writer who owns a haunted castle near Arezzo. Maria dos Prazeres wishes to be buried in a place high above water level. Prudencia Linero has sworn to God to wear a bizarre costume till her death if she is given the opportunity to speak to the Pope. A porter driven crazy by the Tramontane wind in Cadaques. The suicide of Mrs Forbes, a perverse old lady. A group of children drowning for failing to master the &quot;art of navigating in the light&quot;. And finally the sinister trip of Nena Daconte and Billy Sanchez from Madrid to Paris.	2004-03-31
US	36232108	RYZOH9P5MD1UO	0434186368	455111837	Baumgartner's Bombay	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Anita Desai at her best	Mrs Desai's novel opens with a lady called Lotte fleeing the scene of a murder. She's just lost a close friend, Hugo Baumgartner. When she gets back home, all that is left of Baumgartner's life are a few postcards sent by his mother during the Second World War. The German text on these postcards is always cryptic: &quot;Meine kleine Maus,&quot; &quot;Mein Haschen&quot; &quot;Liebchen...&quot; &quot;Do not worry, my rabbit, I am well. Are you well?&quot; &quot;Keep well, my mouse, and do not worry&quot; &quot;I am well...&quot; and they're signed &quot;Mama&quot;, &quot;Mutti&quot; or &quot;M&quot;.   And so the reader begins to follow Hugo Baumgartner's life, starting with his childhood in Berlin. At the age of about eight, his father, a Jewish furniture retailer, soon loses his business, his store is ransacked by the Nazis and he is taken to a concentration camp. Baumgartner and his mother are forced to leave their beautifully furnished apartment and hide in the former office of the shop. At school, Baumgartner's situation becomes unbearable: his classmates chant to him: &quot;Baumgartner, Baum, hat eine Nase wie ein Daum&quot; (Baumgartner's dumb, has a nose like a thumb.) Eventually, his survival in Germany becoming a matter of days, his mother agrees to Herr Pfuehl's idea to send his son to India, since he has a few connections there in the furniture production business.   There are many moving scenes as the reader discovers, along with Hugo, the sights, sounds and smells of Calcutta and Bombay. And moving too, the life of this pathetic and insignificant man Baumgartner who simply does not belong. Neither to Hitler's Germany nor to India's society, where he is a perpetual &quot;firanghi&quot;, foreigner, a wounded survivor.   This novel is the achievement of a superior writer with a sharp perception about human nature, loss, solitude.	2004-03-29
US	36232108	R1NX1HP2FZMSPK	0434305464	797172754	The Third Man	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Classic espionage	Mr Graham Greene's short novel is set in Vienna just before the end of the Second World War. The city is described as &quot;smashed and dreary&quot; and when the action starts, Vienna is still divided up in zones among the Four Powers: the Russian, the British, the American and the French zones. Rollo Martins's line is the writing of cheap paperback Westerns under the penname of Buck Dexter. Martins received an invitation from Harry Lime of the International Refugee Office to join him in Vienna. When Martins arrives at the Hotel Asoria, there is no Lime expecting him, but only a cryptic message for Mr Dexter from a man called Crabbin. Martins then decides to look for Lime's apartment, but once he arrives there, a neighbour, a Herr Kurz, informs him that Harry Lime is dead after having been run over by a car. The burial is to take place the same afternoon at Vienna's Central Cemetery. Martins goes to the ceremony and immediately after that, he is accosted by a man called Calloway, a policeman from Scotland Yard, who asks him if he knew Harry Lime.   This is the beginning of Graham Greene's classic espionage thriller, very well constructed with wonderfully drawn characters and a suspenseful plot.	2004-03-24
US	36232108	R1O34L7OS5Q9IB	0142000604	559108275	The Muse Asylum	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sharply devised and moving	Jake Burnett is a freelance journalist working for a New York paper, the &quot;Ledger&quot;. Since being a high school senior, Jake has always been a passionate admirer and reader of Horace Jacob Little's fiction. This author is much talked about because he is famous for the strange circumstances of his personality, his seclusion and his solitude. In fact, since nobody has ever approached him, Horace Jacob Little is not much more than a fiction himself. His true identity is a mystery, not even his literary agents have ever met him since they only communicate with him via a post office box. All of his books only feature a blank cover. There are no illustrations, no biographies and no photographs of Horace Jacob Little. He has never granted an interview and no one knows what he looks like or where he lives.   One morning at Princeton university, Jake attends a lecture given by Professor Mullin about the works of Horace Jacob Little when suddenly a man inches up the side aisle, climbs onto the stage and, after a few confused sentences, identifies himself as Horace Jacob Little. But is it really him? Jake's startled and hyperalert classmate Andrew Wallace has no doubt about it: &quot;If this isn't Horace Jacob Little, then who is? Who is??   And so begins Jake's awkward search of Horace Jacob Little. Perhaps Andrew's &quot;Confessions&quot; which he wrote at the Overlook Psychiatric Institute - a place for the artistic mentally ill, a house full of painters, musician and writers - also called The Muse Asylum and in which he purports to reveal the secret of Horace Jacob Little's identity will be of some help for Jake...   A very ingeniously plotted postmodernist literary thriller.	2004-03-23
US	36232108	R30I0OVNCRQWZQ	0786104643	360496481	A Scandal in Belgravia	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good whodunit	Peter Proctor, a retired Member of Parliament, is attempting to write his memoirs but he is constantly plagued by what is known to be the &quot;writer's block&quot;. Very soon, Peter realises that his block is due to the fact that his mind is constantly distracted by what happened thirty years before when he was active with the Foreign Office. At that time, he used to work together with a young aristocrat called Timothy Wycliffe. Tim lived in an elegantly furnished apartment in Belgravia until he was savagely murdered by a person or persons unknown. Thirty years later, Peter can't accept that Timothy was allegedly beaten to death by one of his boyfriends. And so begins a fast-paced enquiry, as Peter tries to unveil the truth that lies behind this mysterious murder.   Mr Barnard's novel, beside being a witty and extremely well constructed mystery, gives the reader a fascinating view of British society in the 1950s and its changing as well as unchanging moves since.	2004-03-17
US	36232108	R32DHLFW8QRF74	0312192177	8048790	Mr. White's Confession	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An unnerving novel	Herbert White lives a strange life in Saint Paul in 1939. He's a very lonely man, has no friends, is profoundly attached to his daily routines and is an amateur photographer. He particularly likes taking pictures of taxi dancers working at the Aragon Ballroom where Herbert occasionally goes. And so he met Charlie Mortensen - also called Carla Marie LaBreque - and Ruby Fahey. Due to Herbert's eccentric way of life as a recluse, he doesn't feel very comfortable in the presence of women. All the photography sessions taking place at his apartment, Herbert's behaviour is always uneasy whenever a woman comes for posing. When Charlie Mortensen is found dead by strangulation on 30 Sptember 1939 and Ruby Fahey (killed in the same manner) on 22 October, the police suspect Herbert White and arrest him. Slowly White will be drawn into signing a confession stating that he killed the two women. But Lieutenant Wesley Horner becomes suspicious: why did Hebert White state in his confession that he killed the women &quot;by battery to the head&quot; when both of them died from strangulation?   Truth vs. fiction, past vs. present, love vs. hatred, faith and memory are the themes illuminated masterfully by Robert Clark. This is not a mystery story in the classic sense but rather a complex, intriguing and fascinating journey into the human psyche. A beautiful book.	2004-03-17
US	36232108	R9BN6LOTJRKXE	1559277807	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A picaresque sociohistoric epic	In the spring of 1974, Calliope Stephanides, a student at a girls' school in Grosse Pointe, Michigan, finds herself drawn to a chain-smoking, strawberry blonde classmate with a gift for acting. The passion that develops between them, along with Calliope's failure to develop, leads Calliope to suspect that she is not like other girls. In fact, she is not really a girl at all but what the author calls the &quot;dritte Geschlecht&quot;.   The explanation for this surprising fact is a rare genetic mutation and a guilty secret that has followed her grandparents from Greece to Detroit and beyond, outlasting the glorious days of the Motor City, the race riots of 1967, and the family's second migration, into the country known as suburbia. Because of the gene, Calliope is part girl, part boy. And even though the gene's epic travels have ended, her own odyssey has only begun.   Spanning eight decades and an unusually awkward adolescence, &quot;Middlesex&quot; is a long fable of crossed bloodlines, the intricacies of gender and the mysteries of desire.   &quot;Middlesex&quot; is masterfully read by Kristoffer Tabori and I strongly recommend acquiring this audiobook along with the printed novel.	2004-03-09
US	36232108	R3BIKNKS9O58WV	0553583611	871258699	Fatal	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fascinating medical thriller	A pregnant woman starts to haemorrhage, a violinist awfully disfigured by an unknown disease is drawn into paranoia, a miner goes berserk causing the death of two co-workers. What is it that links these deaths? Could it be the way the Belinda Coal and Coke Company disposes of its waste near the town of Belinda? But Dr Matt Rutledge needs proof and soon his research campaign becomes very bitterly personal. Meanwhile, two women unknown to each other are drawn inexorably to Belinda and into Matt's life - and into deadly danger. Massachusetts coroner Nikki Solari comes to attend the funeral of her roommate, killed violently on a Boston street. Ellen Kroft, a retired schoolteacher from Maryland, seeks the remorseless killer who has threatened to destroy her and her family. Three strangers - Rutledge, Solari and Kroft - each hold one piece of the puzzle they must solve. If they don't do this in due time, their own life may be put at risk.  As usual, Michael Palmer wrote a breathtaking medical thriller and a fully enjoyable page turner.	2004-03-09
US	36232108	R4JLBCTMCE388	0708952623	327804516	Less Than Kind (LIN) (Linford Mystery)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not a very thrilling thriller	In 1968 Charles Sommerville, son of the impoverished landowner Philip Sommerville, is on the run from drug dealers in the Welsh Borders. At the same time in nearby Llantrisillio, James and Suzie, newcomers to that part of England, find their sylvan idyll brutally and shockingly shattered by the voyeurism of a farming neighbour... Also in Border country, in Birmingham, policeman John Munroe is liaising with his Welsh colleagues on a routine enquiry. But a mysterious death in the area draws him inexorably into an investigation which is to uncover a tangle of dangerous passions running beneath the outwardly calm rural scene. This book unfortunately features a poorly designed plot - to the point of becoming almost unbelievable - as well as an unskilful characterisation.	2004-03-03
US	36232108	R11QJKU9O6HYUR	0745167632	415513112	Poellenberg Inheritance	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A wonderful adventure	The Poellenberg Salt is a priceless masterpiece of gold and jewels which was given during the rise of the Hitler regime by Princess Margaret von Hessel to General Bronsart. The general is now living secretly in Spain and one day he sends one of his friends, a mysterious Mr Black, to see his daughter Paula Stanley and inform her that the general wishes to bequeath her the Poellenberg Salt. But there are others who claim ownership of the Salt and who are equally tenacious to retrieve it. And so starts a breathtaking chase after the Salt which soon brings several parties to Paris where it is supposed to be hidden. And the violent history surrounding the famous Salt seems to begin to repeat itself. Excellent listening entertainment with this audio book with Mr Sean Barrett's agreeable voice.	2004-03-01
US	36232108	RCSXOG4HCWPZP	0140245146	969190174	The Prince of West End Avenue: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An excellent first novel	Otto Korner is a Holocaust survivor and now lives in the Emma Lazarus house for the elderly in New York. The reader gets acquainted with his fellow residents, a humorous gang of Jewish senior citizens. They are rehearsing for a production of &quot;Hamlet&quot; and Otto finds himself in the role of the Prince. As the staging of the play progresses, Otto's thoughts often drift in the past and he recalls his times as a promising young poet in Berlin, his studies in Zurich and his frequent meetings with a group of Dadaist artists. He also remembers the early atrocities of the Nazi regime when, so he believes, he betrayed his family and his people. A beautiful first novel in the same vein as Isaac Singer, Saul Bellow or W.G. Sebald.	2004-03-01
US	36232108	RCB3T1STHNDQD	0736618112	559668915	The Bridesmaid	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Relentlessly gripping	Philip Wardman is a young man working for Roseberry Lawn Interiors. He is of quiet, sedate character and he hates violence of any kind. At his sister's wedding, Philip meets her bridesmaid Senta Pelham and falls in love with her. She has a white complexion and silver hair thus resembling Flora, the stone statue in Philip?s mother?s garden. Philip's love for Senta grows passionate until one day she claims that they both have to kill somebody to seal their love for each other. And so begins an awkward journey through sick and weak minds, through an emotional, erotic and irrational relationship. Mrs Rendell's novel is appalling, shocking, convincing and relentlessly gripping. Mr William Gaminara offers a respectable performance in this audio book and I enjoyed very much listening to his reading.	2004-03-01
US	36232108	R3KSW946Y3OEMH	0060589841	885405767	Oracle Night	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Compulsive and original	Sidney Orr is a novelist living in New York. At the beginning of &quot;Oracle Night&quot;, he is still recovering from a serious illness. The Novel is set in 1982 and the reader follows the novelist's life for nine eventful days. The plot starts when Sidney discovers a blue notebook at the Paper Palace, a stationary shop in Brooklyn. Soon Sidney falls under the spell of the empty notebook and he starts using it to write the beginning of his new novel. He at once finds himself trapped in a world of premonitions and events which threaten his marriage and undermine his faith in reality. Paul Auster skilfully mingles the realms of everyday life with the imaginary world the Sidney is trying to create in the blue notebook. A compulsive and original novel. On this audiobook, you can hear the writer reading his own novel, which is a nice complement to the novel itself.	2004-02-20
US	36232108	RJKDM3E0E0YBD	1400030382	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A seductive and lyrical novel	In his first novel, David Mason creates a beautifully enchanting adventure narrative, weaving both historical facts and a marvellous plot. Edgar Drake's progress through Burma as he tries to reach the village of Mae Lwin is both suspenseful and instructive for the European reader. Mr Mason's very well documented novel allows the reader to discover a lot about the Indian continent, the technique of piano tuning and the brutalities and compromises of colonisation. A truly beautiful book.	2004-02-06
US	36232108	RSMV2I4FIUO75	1860463495	256202992	The Emigrants	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A moving book	&quot;The Emigrants&quot; first appear to be mere accounts of four different Jewish emigrants in the twentieth century. But gradually the four narratives merge into a poetic evocation of exile and loss. Mr Sebald's precise, almost dreamlike writing - along with many beautiful photographs - works its magic. The account of the displacement of these four emigres is both sober and delicate. Few books convey more about that complex and tragic fate. Michael Hulse's exquisite translation really makes this book a work of art.	2004-02-06
US	36232108	R109QGSMUYESRV	0754009416	735398183	The Blood Doctor	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A nice audiobook	Martin Nanther's great-grandfather Henry Nanther was interested in blood. Henry Nanther became an expert in diseases related to blood, particularly haemophilia, of which some members of Queen Victoria's court suffered. Martin, wanting to write a biography of his great-grandfather, starts researching Henry's life and soon discovers that he was not just an expert in the matters of the blood but was virtually obsessed with it. Martin begins to suspect that his great-grandfather was less innocent about his work and life as he progresses through Henry's medical diaries and journals. It seems that he was trying to conceal something because the tragedies linked to haemophilia in his family do nor appear to be mere accidents. It may even be that they have implications for the blood doctor's descendant. It is Mrs Vine's fair achievement, though not her best book. Henry Nanther's story is lengthily interrupted by Martin Nanther's personal and marital preoccupations, so that the book would perhaps be more enjoyable if it were shorter.   The reader of this audiobook is Mr Robert Powell. He appeared as Jesus in &quot;Jesus of Nazareth&quot; and he was Richard Hannay in &quot;The Thirty-Nine Steps&quot;. His peroformance in &quot;The Blood Doctor&quot; is impressive and I thoroughly enjoyed listening to him.	2004-02-06
US	36232108	RWV1DF5KJUGCL	0312301995	724784491	The Distant Echo (Mcdermid, Val)	Books	1	2	14	N	N	Longish and boring	How many times have we readers been confronted with this boring pattern: the dead body of a young woman found in the night ... and 482 pages later finally we get to know who killed her. Something ideal for the insomniacs! There are many more original thrillers on the market.	2004-02-06
US	36232108	R142D5U2RAN37Q	1850888531	863579586	Ripley Under Ground	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A great reading	Another adventure with Patricia Highsmith's lovely character Thomas Ripley. This book follows the author's &quot;The Talented Mr Ripley&quot; so that the reader is already acquainted with most of the protagonists like Dick and Chris Greenleaf, Bernard Murchisson or Tom's wife Heloise. When Ed Banbury and Jeff Constant, owners of the Buckmaster Gallery in London, decide to open a new show featuring paintings by the famous Derwatt, the situation becomes uncomfortable when the American collector, Murchisson, claims that a painting he bought three years ago is a fake. Knowing that Derwatt died years ago in Greece and that Bernard had been forging paintings by &quot;Derwatt&quot;, allegedly living in a remote village in Mexico, it will take all of Ripley's talent to clean the reputation of the Buckmaster Gallery, as Murchisson's visit to London is imminent. Mrs Highsmith's highly successful ingredients are all present in this novel: crime, horror, humour and suspense.   Nigel Lambert reading Patricia Highsmith's &quot;Ripley Under Ground&quot; is a masterpiece. All the humour and suspense is rendered splendidly by Mr Lambert's beautiful reading.	2004-01-27
US	36232108	RRKV8TCCNL13B	0435901311	852058913	The Grass is Singing (Heinemann African Writers Series)	Books	5	84	87	N	N	Original and striking	Doris Lessing's \\"The Grass is Singing\\" opens with the death of Mary Turner. How could Mary's life have ended with such a tragic fate? As the reader progresses through the novel, he discovers Mary's insufferable existence, her life destroyed by a disastrous marriage to a farmer, Dick Turner. Mary is forced to live in a rural environment in South Africa for which she is ill-suited. Furthermore, Mary's relationship with her husband rapidly deteriorates as she realises that Dick is unable to manage the farm successfully and they are constantly on the verge of bankruptcy. A truly superb novel, tragic and moving to the very last line. Mrs Lessing's wonderfully captures Africa's majestic beauty, the difficult relationship between the whites and the Natives. The psychological portrait of her heroine is exceptionally intense.	2004-01-27
US	36232108	R3M3IHOKEY0RPW	0224026577	533390925	Dalva	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A rare fictional creation	Living on the coast of California, Dalva hears the deep silence of the Nebraska plains where she was born and longs for the son she had to give up for adoption when she was only sixteen. At forty-five, she has lead a life of many adventures, has had many lovers. Dalva is beautiful, fearless and tormented. Then Dalva starts a journey that will take her back to the origins of her family, to the lover of her youth, Duane, a half-Sioux, and to her pioneering great-grandfather whose diaries relate the violent annihilation of the Plains Indians. This novels tells the story of a remarkable modern woman's search for her son. She is depicted by Jim Harrison as a sensual woman, a woman who always subtly does the seducing of her lovers. I certainly was seduced by her!	2004-01-14
US	36232108	R1CVZD6KRF4VMG	0099428539	370199831	Games at Twilight and Other Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beautifully accomplished	Anita Desai's short stories reflect the kaleidoscope of modern Indian life. They are set in contemporary Bombay and other cities and they evoke the colours, sounds, smells and white-hot heat of Indian cities. The stories are peopled with intensely individual characters: there is a painter living in a slum who fills his paintings with landscapes, birds and flowers he has never seen. There is an American woman who turns to the hippies in the Indian hills because she is unhappy with her life in the verdant countryside of Vermont. There is a man spiritually transformed by the surface texture of a melon. And many more. It is a finely written, atmospheric, memorable collection of short stories. As always with Anita Desai, her work is warm, perceptive, both funny and touched with sadness.	2004-01-14
US	36232108	R3N85XPXMWE6N2	0753105756	118505272	Strangers on a Train	Books	4	3	3	N	N	William Robert's great reading	This is the author's highly acclaimed debut novel. Two men, an architect, Guy Haines, and a psychopath, Charles Bruno, meet on a train to swap murders. Charles will kill Guy's wife Miriam and Guy will kill Charles's father. A chance meeting and a rash conversation will trap Guy Haines, almost against his will, in a nightmare. This is a cunningly plotted melodrama and I read it with thorough enjoyment. Alfred Hitchcock shot a film baring the same name and the movie is equally thrilling. Classic suspense is still the best in my view!   In this audiobook, Mr William Roberts reads Patricia Highsmith's &quot;Strangers on a Train&quot; with plenty of enthusiasm and I enjoyed his voice very much. He manages to adapt his intonation beautifully according to the situation, at times tense, then hilarious, then serious again. A great performance.	2004-01-08
US	36232108	R2WDHML5V5D91K	0754007979	989216742	The Human Factor	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent audiobook	Maurice Castle is working for the Secret Service. In this bizarre profession, he has to deal with leaks, security checks, tensions and suspicions. As Maurice approaches retirement, he realises that some of the decisions he made in the past are now having very serious consequences. In this beautiful novel, the reader discovers what the life of a secret agent is like: he is lonely, isolated and becomes almost neurotic. Greene lays bare a machine, the Secret Service, which overlooks Maurice's subtle and secret motivations that impel him. The characters are beautiful, full of tenderness, excitement and doubt.   Mr Tim Pigott-Smith's performance as a reader of Graham Greene's &quot;The Human Factor&quot; in this audiobook is truly stunning. His voice is very pleasant and his vivid reading adds a further dimension to this already excellent novel.	2004-01-08
US	36232108	R8FXA14EBBCT7	0060929596	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A valuable account	In 1967, after a boy suffered a surgical failure during a circumcision, his family agreed to sexual reassignment on the advice of a famous expert in gender identity, Dr John Monney. The boy was surgically altered to live as a girl. For 25 years, John/Joan was described as a medical triumph, setting a precedent and a proof that our sense of being male or female is primarily a matter of environment and education than it is a matter of genetics. The case was however a failure because of the psychological costs which are only today coming to light. Currently living as an adult male with a family of his own, John (a pseudonym) reveals the horrid details of his childhood. Journalist John Colapinto's remarkable work and research produced a riveting story of science, courage and survival.	2003-12-19
US	36232108	RWQMPRT2F8JS0	0140097058	5127984	In the Country of Last Things	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A harrowing account	Paul Auster's novel offers a haunting picture of a devastated society with all its miseries and struggles for survival. It is highly reminiscent of George Orwell's &quot;Nineteen Eighty-Four&quot; and although Paul Auster's novel is also set in the future, it is a chilling reflection of contemporary social reality. It is a short, sustained masterpiece, truly unforgettable.	2003-12-19
US	36232108	R35EX4Y43BGUCA	0553296981	636860937	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A heartbraking diary	Anne Frank kept a diary from 12 June 1942 to 1 August 1944 when Holland was under the Nazi regime. She accounts of the suffering of her family who spent this period of time hidden in the Secret Annexe, just before being arrested on 4 August 1944. Although the &quot;Diary&quot; is now fifty years old, it remains in my view an astonishing and excruciating account of what Jews had to endure during the Second World War. The evidence of Anne Frank's ferocious appetite for life gnaws at us still.	2003-12-19
US	36232108	RRTJNAE1NCHN7	1587886243	919889268	Killing the Shadows	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A sad voice...	I found Vari Sylvester's performance a bit disappointing. Her voice on this audiobook is too monotonous, most of the character are read in the same tone so that listening to her can become tiresome at times.	2003-12-18
US	36232108	R3BGQHEB33U91N	0312266154	919889268	Killing the Shadows	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Killing crime novellists!	A killer is on the loose and his prey are writers of bestselling crime novels. They are unaware that they have written the script of their own murders. Indeed the killer stages the most chilling scenes in his victims' books. For one woman writer, the desperate hunt to uncover the killer's identity becomes a matter of life and death. Will Dr Cameron, an academic psychologist, be able to track the serial offender with the help of computer technology? Soon Dr Cameron will be caught in a race against time as her lover, Kit, also a thriller writer, disappears... The race culminates in a tense confrontation between hunter and a hunter. What will be the outcome? This thriller is really excellent. You should read it if you appreciate suspense combined with a literary touch, in this case the crime genre.	2003-12-18
US	36232108	R2FCFXTFTR2SO2	0060194170	489274794	About the Author	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A perfect literary thriller	Cal Cunningham is a poor bookstore clerk in Manhattan. He has dreamed many times of becoming the writer of a novel that would send him to the top of the bestsellers list. When &quot;Almost Like Suicide&quot;, the great novel based on Cal's life is published, it fulfils all his dreams. But is Cal really the author of the book. And what happened to Cal's flatmate Stewart, who died in a bicycle accident, and who had literary aspirations of his own? This literary thriller is wickedly satiric. Plagiarism, deception and blackmail are part of Call's not only planning his second novel , but also his first murder. A thriller as perfect as if it were written by Patricia Highsmith!	2003-12-18
US	36232108	R37R6QPNYP9RSB	0679736743	145527537	Set This House on Fire	Books	5	12	15	N	N	William Styron's best	In a small Italian village, shortly after World War II, three Americans converge. One is a Southern lawyer, the other is a rough-edged artist with a strong penchant for alcohol and the third one is a delightful aristocrat who is the closest thing possible to wickedness. Out of this reunion, William Styron has crafted a fabulous novel of rape, murder, suicide and deception with an insight of the dreadful persuasiveness of evil. The qualities of this novel are many, ranging from the sense of the striking scene, the fine art of the dialogue, the sharp depiction of cities, Italian scenery and interiors. William Styron is certainly one of the greatest writers of the 20th century. This is my favourite book by this author.	2003-12-17
US	36232108	RJMUDPFXEEMMW	0140186476	167266492	Dubliners	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dubliners	Joyce's book depicts episodes of middle-class Catholic life in Dublin at the beginning of last century; &quot;Dubliners&quot; was first published in 1914. The topics related in the opening stories range from the disappointments of childhood, the frustrations of adolescence and the importance of sexual awakening. Joyce was 25 when he wrote this miscellaneous collection of short stories, among which &quot;The Dead&quot; is probably the most famous. Considered at the time as a literary experiment, they are refreshingly original and astonishing ant the beginning of this century as they were at the beginning of last century!	2003-12-12
US	36232108	R3O2TADPKYUIFJ	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Nineteen Eighty-Four	George Orwell depicts a horrible totalitarian state that suppresses all opposition. In 1984 the world is divided into three parts, Oceania, Eastasia and Eurasia. These three parts are constantly at war. The charismatic figure of Big Brother stands in the forefront of the Party. It is a figure of mythical power. Winston Smith struggles against the Party, he rebels against Big Brother and the totalitarian regime. But his rebellion will result in his own destruction. We should bare in mind that this novel was published in 1949 and we so realise that Orwell's imaginary future world is a brilliant creation, his vision of brutalised and manipulated humanity is gripping and unfortunately still supremely relevant.	2003-12-11
US	36232108	R2GY92JFO9CH9N	0770428916	232124605	The Treatment	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A merciless thriller	In the heat of the London summer, Mr and Mrs Peach are discovered imprisoned in their house in Brockwell Park. They have been bound and beaten and their son is missing. Jack Caffery is to investigate but the similarities to events in his own past make it difficult for him to consider this new crime with the necessary detachment. A nightmare is about to begin...<BR>This novel by Mo Hayder is truly intense, even horrifying at times and certainly unforgettable, though nothing for the faint hearted!	2003-12-01
US	36232108	R1U2R6R8NIQUTE	1568491786	688704432	Zorba the Greek	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unforgettable, ebulliant Zorba!	The novel has ist origins in the author's own experiences of mining and harvesting in the Peleponnesus in the 1920s. The narrator's adventures are exhilarating and havoc-making. If you like a humorous adventure set in the beautiful landscapes of unforgettable Greece, this is the book to read.	2003-11-25
US	36232108	RY0L9AJK73VSH	0140238131	224860179	In Custody	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A beautiful novel	Touching and wonderfully funny. &quot;In Custody&quot; is woven around the yearnings and calamities of Deven, a small-town scholar from Mirpore in the north of India. An improvised college lecturer, Deven sees a way to escape from the meanness of his daily life when he is asked to interview India's greatest Urdu poet, Nur. But every attempt will only end up in desaster.<BR>A beautiful book, mingling melancholy, disappointment and lots of humour. I recommend it most warmly.	2003-11-25
US	36232108	R31XKEFVDOPL9U	0786885181	643495278	The Grand Complication: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As good as Umberto Ecco or Arturo Prez-Reverte	Alexander Short is a librarian. His job is in jeopardy and his marriage is coming apart. He meets a curious figure improbably named Henry James Jesson III, a book-lover who hires Alexander for some research in order to complete a cabinet of curiosities chronicling the life of the mysterious Henri Breguet, an eighteenth-century inventor. As his investigation progresses, Alexander understands that there a further secrets lurking in Jesson's cloistered world than those inside his elegant Manhattan town house.<BR>An intellectual delight, this literary thriller will enchant you if you like books, antiques and watches. And Horace's sentence &quot;Habent sua fata libelli&quot; - All books have their fates - will stay on your mind forever!	2003-11-25
US	36232108	RQCS6A932CL44	0316614300	171825797	Not the End of the World	Books	2	5	17	N	N	Not the End of the World...	These short stories were not really enjoyable to me. I found the humour bland, the characters shapeless, the plot in the stories ordinary (to put it mildly...) Short stories by Nadine Gordimer or Raymond Carver are in my view far superior. So it's really not the end of the world, there are many other books to read!	2003-11-25
US	36232108	R2RKJ0KDAT561A	0375713875	299162221	Miguel Street	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Amusing and poignant	A beautiful portrait of the inhabitants of Miguel Street located in a derelict corner of Trinidad's Capital Port of Spain. Set during World War II, the story is narrated by a precociously observant neighbourhood boy. The mood shifts from sweet melancholy to anarchical fun as we discover the lives of Popo the carpenter, Man-man staging his own crucifixion, Big Foot the bully or the lovely Mrs Hereira in thrall to her monstrous husband. An amusing and poignant book.	2003-11-24
US	36232108	R1GYK143KIATIN	0345433092	870440752	The Eighth Day	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent thriller	This is a very good thriller and I thoroughly enjoyed reading it. The plot is fast-moving and well constructed. I felt a lot of sympathy for the main character, Danny Cray, because he is not the typical hero, in fact he is what you might call an anti-hero. He often lacks self-confidence, he is a hesitating if clumsy man and so the identification reader-hero is all the more easy. I would compare Danny Cray to Cary Grant in Alfred Hitchcock's &quot;North By Northwest&quot;.	2003-10-24
US	36232108	R36Y09YA8D9R6K	0553273299	642769702	Flashback	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Very good medical thriller	If you like medical thrillers, you're going to enjoy this one. The plot is nail-biting, even scary at times. Furthermore, Mr Palmer being a medical doctor himself, the material is carefully researched and utterly credible. A very good read.	2003-10-24
