US	36242422	R1ADAFCDWWA51R	0060541695	920698290	City of Pearl (The Wess'har Wars)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting, but a little too smooth	City of Pearl is the story of two people devoted to protecting the environment - Shan Frankland, a human Environmental Hazard officer, and Aris, a wess'har set apart from his people by a parasite that grants him immortality - at a price. They meet when Frankland arrives at Constantine, a human colony established on wess'har sufferance by a small group of Christian fundamentalists, and friendship develops as they struggle to protect the local environment, including the local aliens, from exploitation by other races. <br />This was quite a good story, though fairly predictable. There was not much in the way of excitement, but the plot flowed along well. If this is the first book in a series, the issue of unresolved plot points disappears. The passing of time was not well signposted, though, which caused problems as you suddenly realise months have passed. Frankland stands out as the interesting, and even sympathetic, character - the others are not particularly well delineated. The only real problem I had with City of Pearl was the lack of debate. Frankland was ready to accept Aris' wess'har philosophies wholesale, without questioning their applicability in different contexts. Increased questioning and intellectual conflict, with each character forced to re-examine their beliefs, might have created a more interesting story.	2005-09-12
US	36242422	R1R83YCUWBG78B	0441011071	937274355	The Maquisarde	Books	3	3	4	N	N	What resistance?	The Maquisarde is the story of Ebriel, a woman who loses her husband and daughter in a supposed terrorist attack. Distraught with bereavement, she is offered the opportunity to join the Chain, a self-styled \\"resistance\\" movement. Running parallel with her story is that of James, a military officer with a troubled past of his own, who begins to doubt the integrity of those he serves. And then their paths finally cross . . . <br />I wanted to like this book better than I actually did. I found the setting problematic. The International Cooperative Alliance, where Ebriel and James begin, is made up of first world countries who have formed a protective alliance to establish a quarantine between them and other regions, which are supposedly racked with war and disease. But this setting is never delineated clearly enough to give the story a really solid background and highlight the differences between InCo and everyone else. Was InCo lying about the need for the quarantine or not? The bad guys are cartoonish, the good guys are undoubtedly heroic - there are few shades of grey in this story. Everything is resolved far too easily at the end. <br />However, the biggest problem I had with the book was Ebriel herself. For a character who supposedly embodies resistance, she's remarkably passive. She never questioned her life in InCo. The Chain found her, not the other way around. She contributes no great ideas, no special talents - she just exists to get sent on whatever mission comes next. It's James who saves her life and finds the evidence to destroy her enemy. This book is also emotionally hollow. How can we grieve with Ebriel for her husband and daughter when they are barely mentioned and her life with them is not described? How can we lament the loss of her old life when she seems to have no trouble adjusting between that old life and the new? Why bother making her a musician when music plays so minimal a role in the story? Ebriel goes along with whatever is happening thensuddenly decides to do something different, but when we see no gradual change in her thoughts and feelings over time (and the passage of time is hard to pick in this book) - we are just told she now feels different about something. <br />I was disappointed with this book after the glowing reviews I read. It's a competent adventure/romance tale, with a minimal science-fiction element. Louise Marley does a lot of telling, but not much showing.	2005-09-12
US	36242422	R3T9VHV79BUE9S	0446600962	983312383	Midshipman's Hope	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Enjoyable series, but not for everyone	Midshipman's Hope is the first book of the Seafort Saga, which follows the adventures of Nick Seafort. It's exciting, male-dominated space adventure as our hero, an officer in the brutal space Navy of a future Earth, advances up the ranks. Sounds boring? It's not. There's enough drama to hold the reader's interest, and Nick is not your typical hero. He's not the brightest or the best, but he does have the knack of being in the right place at the right time and making the right decision.  <br />In Midshipman's Hope, Nick is a midshipman who finds himself catapulated into the rank of captain after a mysterious disaster wipes out most of the senior officers. Despite the doubt of everyone around him, Nick refuses to step down in favour of another midshipman who appears to have more command talent - not because he wants the power, but because he firmly believes that Naval rules and regulations have to be obeyed no matter what. <br />I'm sure it won't come as a surprise to learn that in the following books, Nick's successes keep coming and his fame keeps growing as he faces one crisis after another, with the stakes (alien invasion and colonial rebellion) getting higher all the time. What sets this series apart (at least as far as Fisherman's Hope - I haven't read the rest of the series) is Nick's self-loathing - no happy hero here. He does what he does out of duty, hating himself ever more as the broken oaths, broken laws and betrayals mount up. He's incapable of judging himself fairly, and by the end of Fisherman's Hope he has the breakdown that had to come. But that aspect does balance out the miraculous twists of fate that let Nick win out even when he doesn't expect to. Do you really want a hero for whom everything always works out wonderfully, whether he meant it to or not? <br />So be warned. There is a lot of excitement in this series, the setting is good and Nick is an engaging hero. But there is also a dark edge to these books that deepens as the Saga continues,and you may end up like I did - torn between admiration for and utter frustration with Nick Seafort, a man with many problems.	2005-08-30
US	36242422	R4RCBZDSE7JKE	0446605573	130981714	Seeing a Large Cat (Amelia Peabody, Book 9 )	Books	1	5	20	N	N	Such a bore	The mystery was boring, the characters tedious, and continually having events re-examined from someone else's point of view was a yawn. Why has a mummy in silk underwear been brought to the Emerson family's attention? What is the connection with the mysterious American millionaire and his man-eating daughter? By the end, I didn't much care. <br />The Peabody novels have been going downhill as the series progresses, and I think the essential reason is that the author loves her main characters, the Emerson family, too much. They are perfect by default, no matter how reprehensible or stupid their behaviour, because they are the main characters and her beloved creations - it is only others who can be at fault. Rarely does anything truly bad ever happen to them, and if it does it is because of their \\"virtue\\" and \\"nobility\\".	2005-06-22
US	36242422	R1EAW1WFGGDBYV	190423321X	273095413	Waywalkers (Sam Linnifer)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sam on the run	I pondered whether to buy \\"Waywalkers\\" for many a day. Should I buy something from the teen fiction section of my bookshop? Should I take a risk on something written by (shudder) a teen prodigy? Well, in the end I did and I'm glad of it. \\"Waywalkers\\" is an enjoyable read of the fantasy-meets-modern-world variety. <br />Sam Linnfer is leading a quiet existence as a university research assistant when a call from the police sends his life into a spin. A friend has been murdered, he is under suspicion, and as he begins to investigate he finds that his supernatural kin are up to some truly scary plotting. The book is essentially one long chase, with the reader gradually learning more about Sam and what's really going on as our hero pauses for breath before being pursued yet again. <br />I have to say, Webb's youth does show in some clunky writing (\\"immaculately proportioned cavern\\"?). But she has a talent for observation/imagination that is expressed in some excellent descriptions of places, the plot is really good, and Sam is interesting and sympathetic without ever being too powerful or perfect. <br />I'm going to assume that Webb has picked up the mythology that loads her plot as a picturesque background most readers can relate to, rather than that she has Something To Say on the deep and meaningful side of life. As an action adventure with a supernatural twist, \\"Waywalkers\\" is a fun read that I found quite haunting. If I could, I would give it three and a half stars.	2005-05-09
US	36242422	R1VDYF6F5SWID0	0671021893	939062649	The Siege of Arrandin (The Arrandin trilogy)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Confusing read	In some ways this is a very typical fantasy story, with mighty battles and political intrigue in a medieval setting. But the heroine, Rysana, is a bit more interesting than the usual young and at-first-incompetent protaganist of these sort of stories, and the magic she specialises in was interesting. There are some good ideas and settings in \\"The Siege of Arrandin\\", but I found the story difficult to follow because of the large cast of characters with confusing names. Also, a lot of the siege itself did not make sense to me from a practical point of view. But there has been quite a gap between this book and its sequel \\"The Treason of Dortrean\\", so hopefully the author has improved on his writing skills in the meantime.	2005-05-09
US	36242422	RY78OZ9IL09HP	0441012272	300547902	Kris Longknife: Deserter	Books	3	28	32	N	N	Not as strong as the first book	I really enjoyed \\"Kris Longknife: Mutineer\\", but the sequel \\"Deserter\\" is not as strong a story. (By the way, who chose the silly names for these books? They are in no way a fair description of the action that takes place). <br />Kris launches herself off on an adventure without her beloved Navy when her friend Tommy goes missing on holiday. Accompanying her are her bodyguard and the most dangerous lady's maid I've ever come across in fiction, plus a few others that crop up as the story unfolds. Trading on her despised status as a princess, Kris \\"infiltrates\\" high society and finds that there is more than one dangerous plot threatening her and the planet she's visiting. <br />I do like Kris herself and the plot outline is a good one, but the execution suffers somewhat from a plethora of characters that aren't given enough to do and an poorly-defined setting. Also, some matters were introduced but never engaged with, like alien technology. And I never thought I'd say it, but I wanted some risks and last-minute hitches rather than everything going perfectly in the big finale. <br />I'd like to read more of Kris' adventures (some features of \\"Deserter\\" hint at a third book in the series), but Shepard needs to be careful that Kris stays properly human. At present she's veering dangerously close to superwoman territory. Some plot elements seem to have no better purpose than to demonstrate how consistently wonderful she is.	2005-03-10
US	36242422	RG9GB93V7W2JK	078681859X	506234393	The Amulet of Samarkand, Book 1 (Bartimaeus )	Books	3	3	6	N	N	"Oh Ace One"	\\"The Amulet of Samarkand\\" is a magical adventure with two main characters: Nathaniel, a wizard-in-training, and Bartimaeus, the djinn he summons to assist him. If you know your fantasy there's nothing particularly original in the plot or setting, but it is a good, enjoyable read. <br />I fear the series is going to go down the \\"plucky children save the world\\" route, but this first book at least has a good adventure that does not stretch credibility too far and has an effective balance between drama, humour and tension. One of the most effective elements is Stroud's characterisation of Nathaniel. He might not be the world's most loveable boy, but what else can you expect of someone who's been brought up to believe in his own superiority, but at the same time has been abandoned and abused by those who should have protected him? He's power-hungry, yes; but what else has he ever been exposed to that he could choose to pursue instead to fill the void he doesn't recognise in himself? <br />I think Stroud could have done a bit more to research magic and djinni and the like to make his magic system a bit more solid and credible, and the next books will need a bit more warmth and cheer to keep my interest up.  <br />If you enjoyed \\"The Amulet of Samarkand\\", you may also enjoy books by Terry Pratchett, Diana Wynn Jones (particularly the \\"Chrestomanci\\" series), and Catherine Webb (\\"Waywalkers\\" and \\"Timekeepers\\").	2004-12-07
US	36242422	R8N39WXIITI7Y	0060013168	224677970	Monstrous Regiment (Discworld)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Disappointing new direction continues	I'm still not sure what to make of \\"Monstrous Regiment\\". I'm puzzled by what the point of the book is supposed to be. Is it about war, women's rights, religion? If Pratchett wants to be taken seriously as a \\"serious author\\" (whatever that may be), this is not the way to do it. I found that this book offered no new insights, was not funny, and, unusually for Pratchett, was rather sloppily constructed. Abandoning your strengths is not a good career progression. The story meanders all over the place, and despite the subject matter and his apparent wish to \\"say something\\", Pratchett shows a curious reluctance to have anything bad happen, either to his characters or the horrible little country of Borogravia. There are none of the spine-chilling hints of how bad things can get as found in \\"The Truth\\". It can work to have heroes on the villains' side, but not when public perception of the the villains is turned round so swiftly and easily. I also got the sense that Pratchett was inventing his setting and background to make it fit the plot; there was a sense of unreality about the whole thing. (Who is in control of Borogravia? What happened to Nuggan? Why the long history of warfare? Are the citizenry truly oppressed or willing participants in their wars and therefore their downfall? How did no-one notice how many women there are in the army? What explains the choices those female soldiers have made?) <br />Sure, there's the odd interesting moment in \\"Monstrous Regiment\\", but Pratchett has done very much better.	2004-10-06
US	36242422	R2PQCZY3B44N8T	0751533416	744145585	A Killer in Winter (Matthew Bartholomew Chronicles)	Books	1	12	17	N	N	"Archly" - NEVER use that word again!	I was really disappointed by \\"A Killer in Winter\\". It was confusing and dull, and that's really not what I expect from Susanna Gregory. <br />In December 1354 it's unseasonably cold in Cambridge, it's Christmas time, and there's more than the weather to worry about. Between slimy men looking to sell their treatises on fish, dead bodies in the church, dead bodies in the street, Rob Deynman being elected King of Misrule and a very dodgy band of entertainers, what are Matthew and Michael to do? Life is not easy in Michaelhouse as Matthew Bartholomew, Doctor of Medicine, and Michael, Senior Proctor and theologian, try to solve mysteries and prevent the university students from getting out of hand at this difficult time of year. <br />I think it's past time Gregory's editor came down very hard on her. If she had stripped out some of the elements of the story and concentrated instead on prose and character, this could have been a much better book. As it is, it's overloaded with characters and elements, many of whom/which appear to no good purpose. What was the point of Sheriff Morice, misrule, Grey and Deynman, Harysone's book and strange dancing, etc etc ad nauseam, if they are not to play any integral part in the plot? Philippa and Giles are the supreme example of this. For the part they played in the story and the effect their reappearance had on Matthew, they could have been anyone. Other elements just did not fit. Why had no-one heard of Dympna before? The continual hostages dramas of the ending were frankly ridiculous. And please deal with Matthew's love life. Is he with Matilde or isn't he? When is that finally going to be sorted out?  <br />All the characters have the same \\"voice\\", and there is too much telling and not enough showing where they're concerned. They change to fit the needs of the plot, too. Why are Stanmore and Langelee such wimps all of a sudden? How is Philippa (who can be no older than twenty-five) now middle-aged, without independent means of herown, and totally different in character? How is Giles now a former student colleague of Matthew's, rather than a former Fellow of Michaelhouse? Gregory's prose needs more life and variety in it, a bit more scene-setting. \\"A Killer in Winter\\" is like having a single light in a dark room - whatever you can't see right now doesn't exist.  <br />I really hope the next book is more fun and better quality than this one - the way they used to be.	2004-08-17
US	36242422	R12ADATT8X0AKH	1590130227	913258476	Ramage at Trafalgar (The Lord Ramage Novels) (No. 16)	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Total yawn	Dudley Pope might be thorough on the nautical detail, but when it comes to general historical detail of the period, this book is seriously flawed. Ramage apparently has one servant who does everything around the house (butler, groom, coachman - and poacher and smuggler); his wife, the daughter of a marquis, travels without a maid; and don't even get me started on the scene where Ramage gives his own wife a sponge bath in the London town house of Ramage's parents' . . . These people are wealthy aristocrats, for pete's sake! And they never act like it! Pope needed a serious dose of Georgette Heyer to do the on-shore scenes better.<BR>The rest of the tale? A yawn-fest about the Battle of Trafalgar, as Ramage and his familiar crew race to the scene in the Calypso, carry out an all-too-easy espionage mission, wreck one ship and then capture another during the battle itself. This story should have been flowing and exciting; instead, it is as top-heavy with incidental detail as the Santissima Trinidad. Ramage disobeys orders and gets away with it yet again, naturally.<BR>I appreciate the difficulty of grafting a fictional character into historical events. But &quot;Ramage at Trafalgar&quot; is seriously unbalanced, the large chunk of the book taken up by Ramage's family having nothing to do with later events and introducing a feel that does not match the second half of the book. Why not just limit it to a nautical tale focused solely on the battle? There's more than enough material there, after all. And why have Ramage and Nelson apparently forgotten the events in &quot;Ramage and the Guillotine&quot;? Other Ramage books are much better. This one is perfunctory and boring in its execution.	2004-07-05
US	36242422	R16T9Q65M2L4ZS	1842324713	234912248	Governor Ramage RN	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Adventure in the Caribbean	Well, annoyances exist in the Ramage series, the same annoyances cropping up with monotonous regularity in all the books I've read so far. But for all that, they're decent adventure stories to while away a quiet weekend with. They're less heavy on the naval detail than Patrick O'Brian's books, the language is accessible, the plots flow along and the characters are mostly sympathetic (except for the boo-hiss obvious villains). The hero might be a stereotype, but he's a fun one who's well-drawn.<br />&quot;Governor Ramage RN&quot; sees Lieutenant Lord Nicholas Ramage in command of the brig Triton. He joins an escort convoy for merchant shipping in the Caribbean commanded by his family's enemy, Admiral Goddard. Strange events ensue as one of the convoy vessels is attacked by French privateers in search of its &quot;cargo&quot;, and then a hurricane strikes . . . Can Ramage survive the hurricane and save his ship? Can he hold his crew and passengers together against the twin threats of the Spanish and buried treasure? Can he save his neck from the noose as Admiral Goddard moves to destroy him? Read this improbable but exciting tale to find out.<BR>Those annoyances I mentioned . . . Pope has an unfortunate tendency to dump in the detail that shows he's done his historical homework, often at inappropriate moments. There will always be the occasional point-of-view from another character, but only for the purposes of physically describing and then praising and/or worshipping Ramage. And the &quot;romance&quot; angle - these books are so obviously written by a man - that has Ramage &quot;fall in love&quot; with the nearest available young woman despite the existence of his almost-fiancee, complete with painful dialogue and cringe-worthy physical details, yet remains coy about exactly what Ramage gets up to out of Gianna's sight. But as annoying as these things can be, I still do urge you to try these books - they might not bother you at all!	2004-07-05
US	36242422	R3DZVILH9YBL0M	076534713X	477200685	Voyage of the Shadowmoon (Book One of The Moonworlds Saga)	Books	2	6	12	N	N	What the . . . ?	I am frankly puzzled by the immensely favourable reviews &quot;Voyage of the Shadowmoon&quot; has been garnering. I'm annoyed, too, because I bought it on the strength of those reviews and found it way below expectations.<BR>There's a boat. The Shadowmoon. Apparently it's really special because it can sink and then be raised again. I don't know who built it or why or how the characters came to be sailing around in it, but it's a really special boat.<BR>There's a crew on the boat. Half of them we don't even know their names until the book is half done, but that doesn't really matter anyway because most of them have no personality. Those that do have obscure backgrounds and motivations and most of the time I had little idea what they were doing and why.<BR>There's a world. It has four continents, many kingdoms, but no map. There are secret societies and religions which, like the nations, fight against each other for reasons that are mostly obscure.<BR>There's magic. Its basis and operation is barely explained, and there is much use of magic energies and artefacts, the utilisation of which I often could not follow.<BR>Starting to get the picture? I felt like there was some sort of prequel or campaign guide I should have read before &quot;Voyage of the Shadowmoon&quot; to understand who these characters were and what was going on. Either I was having a really bad weekend, or Sean McMullen did a really bad job of delineating setting, characters and plot. I cannot recommend this book.	2004-06-22
US	36242422	R2MZUCIXB02AEX	076534324X	365510736	The Moon's Shadow (Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Unexpected, but lacking depth	I originally thought I hadn't suffered from not reading any of the previous books in this saga, but now I wonder. Perhaps a number of the characters and events would have had a greater resonance and feel more grounded had I known something about them already.<BR>Essentially this is the story of Jai, who has unwillingly become the Emperor of Eube to save a relative's life and in the hopes of bringing peace to the galaxy. He is young, ethical and idealistic. Unfortunately he is also a &quot;psion&quot; (telepath) in a society where the vast majority of the population are slaves and psions are the lowest of the low.<BR>&quot;The Moon's Shadow&quot; did not develop as I thought it would. I was expecting something along the lines of &quot;Daughter of the Empire&quot;, where a novice ruler uses her unorthodox grasp of law and tradition to survive and thrive in her unwanted responsibilities. This book is quite different. Jai does not show much capacity for wisdom or compromise, only ethics. Much of the book is therefore taken up with him stumbling from one crisis to the next, many of them created or prolonged by his refusal to adapt to his new situation and take advice. For me the most significant problem with this book was a certain lack of grounding. Time has passed, but we do not know how Emperor Jai has been spending his time. We are told he is increasingly unpopular, but we do not know with who or precisely why. Everyone, even the hardest characters in the book, who spend time with Jai are won over by him and think him worthy of their loyalty, despite their knowledge of his secrets and behaviour that is strange and weak by the standards of his new society. Too much telling and not enough showing, in other words. I also found the relationship between a very old woman and a very young man hard to take.<BR>But all that aside, I did rather enjoy &quot;The Moon's Shadow&quot;. Asaro's style is clear and flowing, and editorial mistakes were at a minimum. The setting is really interesting and the many of the characters and events are appealing.<BR>So - worth reading, but not a stand-out for me.	2004-06-04
US	36242422	RPEQW9QXQPU9A	0064473368	150093381	Dark Lord of Derkholm	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Uncomfortable execution of a great idea	I wanted to like this book, but I didn't. This is the first Diana Wynne Jones book I've said that of, but unfortunately not the last. The idea of the \\"behind-the-scenes\\" people in a fantasy adventure plotting to get rid of the troublesome types who regularly appear to make their lives a misery in the name of adventure is a great one. This idea had the potential to turn the genre on its head. Unfortunately it was badly handled in the execution.<BR>Why do I say this? There are too many characters and too many plot elements, too many things that appear to no good purpose or are suddenly there as a solution to a plot difficulty with no warning to the reader. Mysteries are solved with no clues for the reader to pick up on. It's like the reader has been dumped into a load of stuff they should already know. If Wynne Jones had instead concentrated on developing only a few characters such as Blade and Derk (as the beginning seemed to promise) and fleshing out the setting, the book would have been better for it. It would not have seemed so thin.<BR>The other problem I had was with the tone of this book. At one moment it's full of hilarity and pitched at the junior reader's level, at the next it becomes quite disturbingly dark. Are we supposed to assume, for example, that the worst happened to Shona when the soldiers escaped and attacked her? If so, what on earth is that scene, those elements, doing in a book pitched at children?<BR>Sorry. Two stars only.	2004-05-04
US	36242422	R30C2EVB3H9IFW	006447335X	598391900	Year of the Griffin (Derkholm)	Books	2	1	9	N	N	Same faults as "Dark Lord of Derkholm"	Like its predecessor, this book should have been better than it actually is. Like its predecessor, it is full of things the reader should apparently already know, too many characters, too many plot elements that are used to no good effect, too many deus ex machina solutions, and some disturbingly dark elements that I don't find appropriate in a book aimed at children. And in \\"Year of the Griffin\\" you can add to that some utterly silly plot holes.<BR>I don't know, some may find this unfocused tale of students at wizard school seeking to redefine what magic is and can be engrossing . . . But I didn't, because the characters aren't very interesting, there is no sense of time passing, the issue of magic's potential goes nowhere, and the novel ends as an excuse to reintroduce characters from \\"Dark Lord of Derkholm\\", tie up a few loose ends, and marry everyone off.<BR>Disappointing.	2004-05-04
US	36242422	R12K2TJ32SKKA3	0440241561	34739288	The Last Kashmiri Rose (Joe Sandilands Murder Mysteries)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Ordinary	My copy of \\"The Last Kashmiri Rose\\" stated that the author won a prize for the story outline and then went on to write it up as a novel. Unfortunately, I don't think it has progressed beyond the story outline stage. Cleverly's writing is flat. She has all the right words for India, but I didn't feel myself there. Her characters talk, but they don't come alive and have no real personality. The ending should have been dramatic and shocking, but instead was tedious and even faintly silly. Certainly the plot was intriguing, but without the writing skill to bring it alive it just didn't have the interest or impact it should have had as a story. In addition, some of the motivations of the main characters when it came to personal matters (Joe, Nancy, Andrew, Uncle George) struck me as very strange, whereas a better writer might have made it believable. Joe Sandilands, the hero of the tale, himself is little more than a cipher to move the plot along. The two flashes of personality he has are that he is uncomfortable with British treatment of Indians and that he won't hesitate for as much as a second when it comes to an affair that, for all he knows, has the potential to ruin his investigation of a deadly serious matter.<BR>Despite the gentle mockery of Agatha Christie found in this book, Cleverly has the same tendency towards old lady wish-fulfillment romance (also a failing of Ellis Peters) - but unfortunately not the same degree of writing skill.<BR>My review sounds pretty negative, doesn't it? But it all comes down to what you want from a book. I personally prefer really good writing from authors, even for crime novels; something more than clever ideas. But if you just want clever ideas and an easy read, you may enjoy \\"The Last Kashmiri Rose\\" a lot. This is Cleverley's first book, I understand. I hope her writing skills evolve to match her plotting abilities.	2004-03-16
US	36242422	R2OS9NM1KILFFJ	0451453794	706926130	Battletech 16:  Bred for War (Bk. 16)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Usual, competent Stackpole	It's always amusing to see Michael A. Stackpole portray Victor Steiner-Davion as the greatest man in the universe despite his general incomptence, twisted morality and lack of likeability. Thankfully Victor rarely appears in this book.<BR>&quot;Bred for War&quot; has many different storylines, all competently handled, that advance the general history of the Inner Sphere in 3057. Don't even think about reading this book if you're not familiar with the BattleTech setting. We have the resurgence of the Capellan Confederation and the Free Worlds League, the Refusal War between Clan Wolf and Clan Jade Falcon, and the widespread turmoil caused by the afore-mentioned Victor's stupid choices. There's a well-balanced mix of action and intrigue, none of it particularly gripping - but like I said, this is standard, competent Stackpole. You don't expect the Earth and you don't get it, either.<BR>The stand-out is the storyline involving the planet Zurich and Noble Thayer, a writer looking for a quiet hideaway who turns out to be much more than he seems when a revolution sweeps through. This would have been worth a book on its own.<BR>One final point. When is Stackpole going to learn something - anything - about women's clothes?	2004-02-20
US	36242422	RLPQTVW0CLGOF	0451451503	886234938	Wolf Pack (Battletech # 4) (Vol 4)	Books	1	2	8	N	N	A shocker	This is a terrible book. The civil war on Outreach between the factions of Wolf's Dragoons should have been thrilling. Instead, Charette made it boring. The characters were one-dimensional, and their actions frequently inexplicable. The plot was full of cliches, and many threads were never resolved. The source of conflict was obscure. The writing style was never any better than pedestrian. You needed a full history of Wolf's Dragoons (which I don't have access to) to make sense of a lot of the story. Even the illustrations were bad.<BR>Frankly, &quot;Field Manual: Mercenaries&quot; is a more enjoyable read about Wolf's Dragoons, and that's not the way it should be.	2004-02-19
US	36242422	R1DOLBKRHA0M2B	0451453808	374256165	I Am Jade Falcon (Battletech 17) (Bk. 17)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Has its moments	I'm not a fan of Robert Thurston. There's too much baggage in the two books of his I have read, as he seeks to rub your nose yet again in how vitally important Aidan Pryde (praise Aidan Pryde!) was to the functioning of the universe from now until the end of time. Oh, and introduce you to yet another nefarious plot involving the honorless freebirth scum of the scientist cast and their tinkering with the legacy of Aidan Pryde (praise Aidan Pryde!) who was vitally important to the functioning of the universe from now until the end of time.<BR>However! I rather like &quot;I am Jade Falcon&quot;, because Star Commander Joanna is such an unashamedly bad-tempered and aggressive character who won't stop fighting anything and everything till the last possible moment. And Ravill Pryde, her new commanding officer with annoyingly cheerful and devious ways, has his charms as well. If you ignore the Aidan Pryde (praise Aidan Pryde!) element, this is not a bad mix of action and intrigue in which (gasp!) both Joanna and Ravill Pryde LEARN SOMETHING.	2004-02-19
US	36242422	R3ND1RQGZVYAM1	0441011268	339809933	Heirs Of Earth	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Disappointing rush job	I WANTED TO KNOW THE ANSWERS!<BR>And I didn't get them. Nothing was explained or resolved satisfactorily, and I had to wade through very ordinary prose full of proofing errors to reach that conclusion. Characters behaved differently, issues previously raised weren't explored, and things were stated as fact that hadn't featured in the previous books. Infuriating concepts were dumped in at the last gasp in a futile effort to make sense of what had come before.<BR>Please, please, please, Messers Williams and Dix, take the TIME to produce real quality with your next effort; quality like the Evergence trilogy.<BR>What a let down!	2004-02-06
US	36242422	R3NK6LPL5BEMM1	0312979827	770567927	Murder is Easy (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Hmm, maybe working it out isn't so much fun after all!	To my utter amazement, I worked out who the murderer was halfway through the book - and spent the next half  of the book metaphorically screaming at Luke and Bridget for their stupidity in not seeing it.<BR>&quot;Murder is Easy&quot; is quite a good little mystery. There's a bit more romantic tension than is usual for Agatha Christie and many fun red herrings to get diverted by. It's a little loose in its execution, though - the supposed &quot;macabre&quot; atmosphere and Luke's cover story are very perfunctorily handled, for example.<BR>Still, I enjoyed it.	2004-01-28
US	36242422	R1S956M7D6PFAN	0713991984	688527924	Mesopotamia: The Invention of the City	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Good introduction	I enjoyed this book a lot. It's a book that manages to be both scholarly and readable as it introduces the archaeology and history of various cities around Mesopotamia. Archaeology is the main focus, but Leick draws on written texts, notably literary texts, to illuminate the physical evidence. This book also shows how much more investigative work there is to be done in that region of the world.<BR>A good read.	2004-01-27
US	36242422	R1JPOVGT5X5TDG	0060012358	665449973	The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents (Discworld)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One for the kids	Four stars as a kids' book, three stars as an adult's book. It's an interesting little story about what Maurice, the rats, and the dumb-looking kid will do when they arrive in Bad Blintz and discover that something very nasty indeed is going on involving a famine, ratcatchers, and dark cellars.<BR>You could take a lot away with you from this story if you liked. If you just want an interesting story, it works on that level, too. I'm a little restrained in my praise because as an adult, the story is somewhat predictable and dragging, and because there isn't the depth we've come to expect from a Pratchett novel.<BR>But like I said, this is one for the kids.	2004-01-27
US	36242422	R4VK3NW72YQP6	0060013125	591200758	Night Watch (Discworld)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Change of style that doesn't come off	I'm sure there are many, many people who will love this book. After two reads, I don't think it likely my opinion - that this is one of Pratchett's lesser efforts - will change.<BR>The central idea of &quot;Night Watch&quot; is that the individual matters; that an individual and the actions their character leads them to commit can be central to history's progression. Fine. However, my feeling was that &quot;Night Watch&quot; did not illuminate Vimes' character - as opposed to his personal history - beyond what had been established in previous books, notably &quot;The Fifth Elephant&quot;. What is the point if we already know just what Vimes is like and can predict what he will do in every situation? And despite the continuous reminder that, yes, he has his dark side, Vimes never steps over that particular line. Not once. Again, what is the point? Whatever Pratchett may have thought he was doing with this book, what I found it to be was a slightly tedious tale re-treading the familiar territory of Sam Vimes the slightly-grimy-but-honest copper. There's too much baggage for the new reader; all the cameos have no resonance unless you're already familiar with the characters, and the lack of humour in &quot;Night Watch&quot; somehow leaves the Ankh-Morpork of this book adrift from the city as it appears in Pratchett's previous books.<BR>This is a well-written, well-crafted story with some interesting issues to think about, if that's your cup of tea. But for me, Pratchett's real talent is for comedy, and I think that's where he should stay.	2004-01-27
US	36242422	R7VW4RS9CL9EE	0312979746	518513211	The Secret of Chimneys	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Falls between two chairs	If \\"The Secret of Chimneys\\" was supposed to be a comedy, it's not funny enough; and if it was supposed to be a thriller, it's not tense and dramatic and mysterious enough. I'm not sure whether to attribute its problems to lack of skill on Agatha Christie's part or the expectations of the time it was written, though I lean towards the former.<BR>Basically, Anthony Cade jumps at the opportunity to involve himself in the convoluted goings-on surrounding the political future of an imaginary Balkans kingdom, saving the day with good old English pluck amongst a succession of silly characters and foreseeable plot \\"twists\\". Tommy Beresford works as a character, Anthony Cade doesn't. It's a very personal thriller, with mighty events hanging upon the actions of one man; perhaps an attractive idea in the 1920s, but one that doesn't sit well these days.<BR>A curiosity more than anything else.	2004-01-21
US	36242422	R37CGPNDRTV4XA	0312280645	325831369	Tutankhamen: The Life and Death of the Boy-King	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Yes, but . . .	There are many good points about El Mahdy's book. It demonstrates clearly, for the non-specialist, the importance of going back to primary sources when examining historical/archaeological issues, and the need always to employ a sceptical eye and a hefty dose of common sense. It also explains matters in a way that makes them very accessible to the non-specialist. Though I can't speak for the accuracy of the evidence she presents and her conclusions, being a non-specialist myself, in the first three quarters of the book which deal with the &quot;Armarna Period&quot; her material was presented clearly and understandably, and seemed reasonable for the most part. However, I found her examination of Tutankhamen's life in the final part of the book much harder to swallow. It was very rushed and seemed to jump to an awful lot of conclusions.<BR>One final quibble: I am sick to death of authors telling us about their childhood in what so often appears to be an attempt to claim some extra authority in their particular field. El Mahdy has always loved Egypt, taught herself to read hieroglyphs as a child, and decided at the age of ten she was going to be an Egyptologist? So what? What counts is her academic achievements, not her childhood quirks.	2004-01-06
US	36242422	R20BSM8DWLJSR8	0812571339	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Hmmmm	Well, &quot;Crossroads of Twilight&quot; was better than the reviews I've read had led me to expect. I found it exciting and oddly tedious at the same time. I guess it's all that waiting for something to happen . . . Seriously, Book 11 has to be make or break for The Wheel of Time. I'll do Jordan the credit of saying that all the elements now seem to be in place, enough so that some serious fireworks  should occur from now on (&quot;Seem&quot;, &quot;should&quot; - okay, I'm optimistic).<BR>There was not much of a story in &quot;Crossroads of Twilight&quot;. The book largely comprised updates on all the characters, rather than any real action, and I was surprised by the things Jordan chose to focus on, at the expense of some very important things taking place &quot;off-screen&quot;. I can cope with the physical descriptions of new characters, as we all need something to hang a name on with such a large cast, but the minutiae of trays, dresses, and layouts of tents really serves little useful purpose and did come across as padding in this book. Some of the characters are as engaging as always . . . while some are their usual annoying selves. Sadly, only one of the Forsaken appeared very briefly, so no news on what the side of evil is planning now; but for the alert reader there was plenty of sub-text to pick up on, to do with various varieties of skullduggery.<BR>Perhaps the biggest flaw of &quot;Crossroads of Twilight&quot; is that the momentous events at the end of &quot;Winter's Heart&quot; are not engaged with. I truly do hope Jordan has it all mapped out and is not inventing on the fly . . . (Though a number of things do suddenly appear in his books without being previously referenced, such as towns or Aes Sedai secrets, and become new favourites to be used at every opportunity).<BR>So why three stars, you ask? Because three stars is to me a book worth reading, and I'm judging (perhaps unwisely) in the context of the series as a whole. And Jordan below par stillbeats most authors out there, for me.	2003-12-15
US	36242422	R29Z0EHFT8XEOD	0441011020	80979198	Chindi	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not up to standard	I never thought I'd say it of a Jack McDevitt book, but I was disappointed by &quot;Chindi&quot;. It started off with so much promise, but there was no payoff in the end. But more than that, it felt so much like a rehash of the various elements of McDevitt's previous books that the fun I've had reading his work in the past was mostly lost with this one.<BR>The wealthy but not respected Contact Society is pressuring the Academy of Science and Technology to investigate some mysterious signal that no-one really believes originates from aliens. To keep them happy and keep the funding they provide rolling in, the head of the Academy sends them off in a couple of ships to investigate, expecting that they'll wander around for a while, see there's nothing out there, and come home again knowing that at least they tried. Of course, things do not go according to plan. There ARE aliens out there, and the various members of the Contact Society fall into one adventure/disaster after another. <BR>I've always appreciated how uncomfortably human McDevitt makes his characters, but these guys were such a bunch of utterly stupid jerks that I found the story increasingly hard to swallow. None of the new characters really came alive for me, and I've never found Hutch, the pilot, particularly interesting. McDevitt has a great imagination and there are some wonderful elements to the story, but it abruptly shifts from a mission of exploration to a tale of daring rescue with the obligatory hard physics angle, and then dribbles away to a nothing conclusion. None of the characters exhibit any personal growth and we never get any answers to the mysteries that appear. If that was the sort of story I wanted, I'd go back to Arthur C. Clarke.<BR>I agree that a certain amount of the unexplained is a good thing in a story and it's something that has played really well in McDevitt's other books, but I started to wonder with &quot;Chindi&quot; whether there were any answers at all - whether McDevitt was too focused on details to have worked out any master plan behind what was going on in this story.<BR>If you're new to McDevitt or like a certain kind of old style science fiction, you may really enjoy &quot;Chindi&quot; - it's certainly not necessary to have read &quot;Engines of God&quot; or &quot;Deepsix&quot; first. Fans, like me, may be disappointed. More wonder and solidity, and less stupidity, please.	2003-12-08
US	36242422	RFJDT0MFOS7D6	0886776538	642591946	Ring of Lightning (Dance of the Rings)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Promising start not fulfilled	The set-up in Ring of Lightning is quite interesting. Three brothers separated by politics and family conflict, cities powered by magical energies, looming international and internal conflict over the source and use of those magical energies, eldritch beings taking an interest in human doings, historical mysteries, an eighteenth-century style setting . . . This book was a decent read, as there was a certain amount of action and intrigue to draw you in and the characters were interesting enough to make you care about whether they would sort out their problems.<BR>However, the story can be turgid at points, as events are continually reexamined from every character's point of view with the all concomitant wondering about motives, possible courses of action, etc.<BR>There's also the issue of the next two books in the series. If you like Ring of Lightning, you may be severely disappointed by its sequels, as I was. They never fulfil the promise of Ring of Lightning in terms of plot, and descend into psycho-sexual/romantic personal dramas.<BR>So, the first book is worth a look, but maybe you should read reviews of the sequels first to see if you really want to tackle this series as a whole.	2003-11-23
US	36242422	RR8YFIXYA5IJB	0886777046	168551929	City of Diamond	Books	4	7	7	N	N	WHERE IS THE SEQUEL?	I LOVE City of Diamond. It's one of my favourite books. A cast of fascinating characters, a world on a spaceship that's a mixture of the futuristic and medieval, mysterious artefacts to track down, future mysteries to be solved, moments of pathos and humour, a clear and flowing writing style . . . What more could you ask for?<BR>I've been waiting years for the sequels and they haven't appeared. To my knowledge, this is the second time Doris Egan/Jane Emerson has had a series cut short. DAW, what's going on?	2003-11-23
US	36242422	R242OCJE46FL21	014243714X	523371993	The Tale of Genji: (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	48	54	N	N	A world that's gone	The &quot;Tale of Genji&quot; was written one thousand years ago at the court of the Emperor of Japan. It has to be said, this book will not appeal to everyone. It's very long, it has a huge cast of characters, it's loaded with poetry, and the setting is extremely different to probably anything you've encountered before. There's not much in the way of action or excitement. But if you like human dramas at a gentle pace and are willing to tackle something out of the ordinary, you may find a lot to enjoy here.<BR>Set in tenth-century Japan, it's a bizarre world to us, where a person's worth is measured by their handwriting, their ability to match the colours of their clothes, and their ability to spout just the right poem at the right moment; where women hide themselves away for fear of being seen and are completely dependent on men for support and survival; where men can carry on as many romantic affairs as they please and are thought strange if they don't, and shed tears frequently to demonstrate their sensitivity; where ceremony, music and banquets are given far more prominence in the lives of the nobles than their official duties; where exile a mere thirty miles from the capital is a fate worse than death; and where everyone is continually being struck by the transcience of life and how sad everything is, and how they should devote themselves to religion as a result (and almost never do).<BR>Genji is the beloved son of the Emperor of Japan, but because his mother is of low rank there is no future for him in remaining a prince of the imperial family. When he comes of age his father makes him a commoner, which frees him from the constraints of imperial dignity and allows him to serve in government. Genji is the hero for about three-quarters of the book. The main focus of the story is his love life, with the joys it brings him and the problems he brings upon himself through his behaviour. After his triumphant return from exile, his power and prestige grow and grow until, with the death of his beloved Murasaki, he grows tired of life, retires to a monastery and vanishes from the story. While Genji is beloved and admired by all in the story for his many outstanding qualities he is far from perfect, and the narrator, who intrudes herself with the occasional editorial comment, makes this clear. On the other hand, just when you are disgusted by something Genji has done, he will do something else that once again makes it clear that, in kindness at least, he is a cut above the rest of his male contemporaries.<BR>For the last part of the story, the hero of the story is Kaoru, Genji's putative son. The sensitive and religious-minded Kaoru engages in romantic rivalry with his best friend (and Genji's grandson) Niou for the love of Ukifune, with tragic results. The book ends abruptly and unsatisfactorily, but that's not unusual for such ancient literature where unanswered, and often unanswerable, questions about the survival of documents and authors' intentions always arise.<BR>As a human drama, with psychological insights into the characters that seem so very modern and understandable, this is a really good story (particularly in the Kaoru chapters, to my mind). I also really enjoyed the setting, which is so different to how we live today and therefore so fascinating. I have absolutely no knowledge of whether Royall Tyler's translation is a good one in academic terms, but it reads very easily and has a lot of atmosphere. The character lists at the start of each chapter aid understanding, as do the footnotes, maps, house designs, and various glossaries.<BR>It has to be said that, by our standards, many of the men in the &quot;Tale of Genji&quot; behave cruelly and reprehensibly in their relationships with women. If you can work through that, and the other difficulties so unique a story presents, you will hopefully find your persistence satisfactorily rewarded.	2003-10-20
US	36242422	R29Y8Z2TP84VHR	0020425651	400011174	The Dark Is Rising Sequence: Silver on the Tree; The Grey King; Greenwitch; The Dark Is Rising; and Over Sea, Under Stone	Books	4	32	37	N	N	Strong series	I re-read this series recently, wondering if it would still seem as good as it did when I was a child. And the answer is, it doesn't. But it still has a great deal to offer.<BR>The five books are set in Britain, not tied particularly closely to any decade within the twentieth century. They are all quest stories, with the child heroes seeking various magical artefacts to help the Light in its struggle against the Dark.<BR>\\"Over Sea, Under Stone\\" introduces Simon, Jane and Barney Drew, following a mysterious manuscript in search of a golden grail. This adventure takes place during the summer holidays in Cornwall, and introduces their enigmatic Great-Uncle Merriman.<BR>\\"The Dark is Rising\\" is the story of Will Stanton, who comes into his power as an Old One, a champion of the Light, on his eleventh birthday. Assisted by Merriman, he is destined to find the Six Signs.<BR>\\"Greenwitch\\" unites the Drews, Will and Merriman in Cornwall as they hunt for a second manuscript, lost in the hunt for the grail. But can they win out over the power of the Greenwitch?<BR>\\"The Grey King\\" sends Will to Wales in search of the golden harp that is needed to wake the Sleepers, warriors of the Light. He meets Bran, a lonely and troubled boy, who proves to be surprisingly important in his search and the struggle against the Dark.<BR>\\"Silver on the Tree\\" reunites all the characters as they search for the crystal sword, the last necessary artefact, and travel to the final confrontation with the Dark.<BR>There's a great deal to like in these books. Cooper pitches the writing at a suitably adult level so that, while not too difficult for children, they never feel twee or condescending. They are suitably atmospheric, with the settings brought alive by good descriptive writing and a healthy injection of Celtic mythology. Many of the characters are interesting and likeable; Will is the stand-out in this regard. The two \\"Will\\" books, \\"The Dark is Rising\\" and \\"The Grey King\\" are the best of the series. There is more action and a greater sense of risk and tension in these books.<BR>So why has my regard for this series dropped over the years? There are two reasons. The first is that, reading as an adult, I don't find the books all that well-grounded in their mythological territory. Tolkien wrote stories set in a world that feels real. Cooper's ideas of magic, Light and Dark, heroes and villains, are very thin by comparison. As a consequence, to me there is little sense of what is truly at stake in what is supposed to be an all-time epic struggle, little sense of real risk; and all too often there are deus ex machina solutions as the magical heroes suddenly \\"know\\", without explanation, just what they need to do to win out.<BR>The second reason is \\"Silver on the Tree\\". I found this a weak end to the saga, with too many deus ex machina solutions and too many vitally important plot points coming out of nowhere (Mrs Rowlands being one, Bran's love for his human father another). Much of the book seemed pointless filler. The final confrontation lacked power (both with regard to Cooper's writing and in plot terms) and seemed all too easy.<BR>However, these caveats are things that may seem far less important to younger readers - I know they didn't bother me the first time I read this series. And the series as a whole is certainly well-crafted, exciting and enjoyable.	2003-09-09
US	36242422	R2CE7ZGABOH7P3	1857984226	611846553	Songspinners	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Some lovely ideas	Songspinners is the story of Orial, a young woman forbidden any music because of her father's fears of the harm it might do her. But when Orial pursues a study of music in secret, manifesting an astonishing talent, and then discovers a brilliant composer fleeing religious repression in a neighbouring country, a series of events is set in motion that will change her life forever - and the lives of many others - if she can survive long enough.<BR>I thought I should put in a brief synopsis, as no editorial reviews of &quot;Songspinners&quot; seem to have found their way onto this site. There's a lot to like in this book. A number of the characters are appealing or at least amusing; their varying motivations are believable and fit well into the story. Ash has a good gift for visual description, and the accounts of the Undercity and polite society in Sulien (think eighteenth-century Bath in England) are beautifully brought to life. There are secrets to be uncovered, something I always like in a book, and the resolution of the story was appropriate.<BR>Yet I would have liked to like &quot;Songspinners&quot; more than I actually did. Like &quot;Moths to a Flame&quot;, it just all felt very thin, somehow . . . I find it difficult to identify just what I felt was missing - real depth of character and setting, perhaps?<BR>I assume this is one of Sarah Ash's earliest books. I hope her talent continues to develop from this promising beginning.	2003-07-28
US	36242422	R31CSPUVMHAYDZ	0451458052	462210245	Beyond The Blue Moon (Hawk & Fisher)	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Seriously disappointed	I adored \\"Blue Moon Rising\\". It was moving, unsual, and had that real sense of myth that the best fantasy works have. \\"Beyond the Blue Moon\\", whether in comparison to its predecessor or considered on its own, is trite.<BR>Hawk/Rupert's brother, King Harald of the Forest Kingdom, has been murdered and his Champion comes to Haven to bring back the legendary Rupert and Julia (Fisher) to solve the crime and set all to rights. This immediately establishes this book as a Hawk and Fisher story, which is a problem. While the Hawk and Fisher stories are good for what they are, for me the feel of those books just doesn't fit with the atmosphere established in \\"Blue Moon Rising\\". If you want mythic power, emotional power and character insights, you won't find them here. And the whole \\"We're Hawk and Fisher, we don't take nuthin' from no-one and we're so devoted to each other\\" shtick is wearing pretty thin by now.<BR>Anyway, Hawk and Fisher destroy half of Haven as their going away present to the city they hate and travel to the Forest Kingdom incognito to solve Harald's murder. Cue a witless succession of cliches, smart aleck conversations, return of old characters, and an overly heavy dollop of religion before the book ends. But worse than the lame and overly lengthy storyline is that ending. EVERYTHING is resolved, tied up, explained, married off, killed off or buried. By the time Green is done with \\"Beyond the Blue Moon\\", nothing is left. There's no more room for further stories in the land he created. And I think that's sad.<BR>So why two stars? Some people like their favourites series to end this way, and may have no fault to find whatsoever. I'm not one of them.	2003-07-23
US	36242422	R2BLAID6985CZC	0060953497	854810806	The Keys of Egypt: The Race to Crack the Hieroglyph Code	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Enjoyable book for the general reader	This is an interesting and very readable book. It succeeds well in relating the excitement of Champollion's life and drawing the reader into his story. It places him in the turbulent political and intellectual climate of his day, and shows what a dangerous business an academic career could be at that time.<BR>There were some flaws in the book. The first chapter seemed largely irrelevant, and made the book hard to get into initially. Throughout, the authors kept adding little andecdotes and asides that, while colourful, were often a diversion from the point of the book. But my strongest criticism is that I did not feel the book actually told me how Champollion deciphered hieroglyphics and came to be able to translate the ancient Egyptian language. Exactly how did he go from being able to identify rulers' names to reading and understanding the language itself?<BR>So read this book for insight into a really interesting period of history and for illumination of the appealing character of Champollion himself. Read the Adkins' book on learning hieroglyphs for more of an insight into the hieroglyphs themselves.	2003-07-22
US	36242422	RCQKYUQAHERAQ	0553574736	766527144	Heaven's Reach (The Second Uplift Trilogy #3)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not what was promised	I didn't want the answers to life, the universe and everything from this book. I wanted a meaningful conclusion to the story threads that had been introduced in proceeding books. I didn't get it, and some of the time I wasn't terribly clear on what was happening. &quot;Infinity's Shore&quot; showed that Brin is capable of writing a good, small-scale story that is based around characters, not galactic-scale events and mind-blowing concepts. That's where he should have stayed.	2003-04-30
US	36242422	R1WCZPAPQU4IVI	0312981686	397579205	Destination Unknown (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Satisfying thriller	I'm not much of a fan of the thriller genre - there's usually so much detailed intrigue that I can't even keep up with what's happening, let alone figure out what's really going on. So hooray for Agatha Christie! Her thrillers are plot-focused (rather than designed to show off how clever she thinks she is), admirably economical, and contain some really appealing characters.  Hilary Craven is a woman who has lost her husband and child, and is seeking escape by travelling to Morocco. But once there, she discovers that her problems are within her - that there is no escape. She decides to end her life, but is interrupted by the practical Mr Jessop. Jessop has previously been encountered investigating the disappearance of Thomas Betterton, another brilliant scientist who has vanished without a trace. He suggests that if Hilary is so bent on death, she could make herself useful to him while she seeks it. Deciding that she's up to the challenge and convinced that death is what she really wants, Hilary impersonates the wife of Thomas Betterton and heads off into the unknown. She waits for Mrs Betterton's mysterious allies to contact her and take her to join her \\"husband\\", knowing she will be beyond help if her ruse is discovered. And once she is contacted, then the fun really begins.  Hilary is a great character, the mystery she gets caught up in is a satisfying one, and as with all Christie novels, there is a great sense of era as the concerns and foibles of the 1950s (when this book was written) are brought to life.	2003-04-03
US	36242422	R1QMDL7GJKV20Z	0688155456	396997506	Witch Week (Chrestomanci Quartet)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Lots of fun, but uncomfortably true	I didn't like \\"Witch Week\\" the first time I read it - perhaps because I was the same age as the characters and found it too close to the bone? But I re-read it recently, and was really impressed with it as a good story that doesn't let anyone, child or adult, off the hook when it comes to being responsible for their own behaviour.<BR>Larwood House is a English boarding school of the worst sort, full of bullies, horrible food, communal baths and unsympathetic teachers. It's also a school for witch orphans. Everyone is on the lookout for signs of developing magic in the students, so that the inquisitors can be called to interrogate the unfortunate child and burn them if they turn out to be a witch.<BR>Trouble starts when a note is found by a teacher alleging that someone in 2Y is a witch. The teachers plot and scheme to uncover (or hide) the truth, and the students get abusive towards those they suspect, or would like to believe, is a witch. It's very effective picture of just how cruel and hierarchical teenagers can be towards each other. But that description makes the book sound exclusively unpleasant, and it's not. There are a number of hilarious situations as magic starts to run riot at Larwood House, and the characters, particularly Nan and Charles, are very appealing and very much true to life. Finally, when it seems that the situation is getting too hot for everyone, a number of the characters take desperate measures, which lead to the arrival of a certain enchanter and the revelation of an astonishing secret.<BR>\\"Witch Week\\" is not a message book - it's a fun and exciting story with a strong moral streak, as is typical for Wynne Jones' books. Definitely worth reading.	2003-04-02
US	36242422	R1DZY3J25JGQUG	0441010067	754948148	Orphans of Earth	Books	4	3	4	N	N	This is more like it	Williams and Dix are back on form in &quot;Orphans of Earth&quot; after the slow start of &quot;Echoes of Earth&quot;. It's an action-packed book, full of secret plots and counter-plots, double crosses, mighty battles, and astonishing revelations. What makes it significantly better than the previous books is the developing depth to the characters (and they have become more likeable as well), plus a greater depth of context to the setting they operate in. There are also a number of hints of something big brewing and revelations to come.<BR>To recap, the engram (computer program) explorers/colonists from Earth are spread around space, struggling to hide and survive as the miraculous technological Gifts of the Spinners are followed by the awesome destructive power of the Starfish. Caryl and Peter are trying to organise the colonists and build something for the future, in alternating conflict and concert with Frank, another engram who left Earth before it all went downhill, and a very alien fleet of aliens. Meanwhile, Rob is starting to find evidence that the Gifts might not be all they're supposed to be, while Lucia is making discoveries of her own all alone in space.<BR>Yes, the writing/editing is a bit sloppy at times, and you can only hope that the series as a whole will be worth it in the end. But if &quot;Orphans of Earth&quot; is any guide, this series is definitely worth your time.	2003-04-02
US	36242422	R1BT9ZKFLDGSPV	0441008216	250670386	Heart of Gold	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good find	I've given this book four stars, which may be slightly overgenerous; however, I did find the characters very appealing, the plot a bit different, and the book as a whole very hard to put down.<BR>I won't relate the plot, as other reviewers have already done so, and it's really best not to know too much about the story before you read it. There are some amazing events and plot twists that shouldn't be given away.<BR>I did have some quibbles with this book. In places (just a few) it is a bit preachy, and Shinn works very hard to balance the relative evils of indigo and gulden society. While it's true that societies may indeed be equally bad in their own ways, this balance of evils had such a deliberate feel to it that after a while it started to seem slightly artificial. Emotional impact was somewhat lacking, and I think it took to long to get to the romance (but that's the fault of the cover description, not Shinn). My most serious quibble is how Nolan was abandoned at the end. All the final chapters were from Kit's point of view, which left Nolan's actions and feelings a puzzle.<BR>Overall, though, I found it a really interesting and exciting read - thought-provoking and with characters you come to care about.	2003-03-06
US	36242422	R2872E5HK0PUD1	0425182932	533199320	The Horus Killings	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Not worth the money	Paul Doherty was a much better writer before he started churning out book after book at maximum speed. &quot;The Horus Killings&quot; has irritating, ill-defined characters; a weak plot; and no real sense of historical grounding. I can't speak for the accuracy of the history behind this book, but Doherty certainly can't bring Ancient Egypt to life the way he can medieval England.<BR>So read some of the early Hugh Corbett novels instead, if you want a more accomplished and interesting book by Doherty.	2003-01-21
US	36242422	R3913N1J36WIN4	0446603988	14072	The Hippopotamus Pool (Amelia Peabody, Book 8)	Books	2	7	15	N	N	A fizzer	This book started off so well . . . and then died. Peters so indulges herself by packing \\"The Hippopotamus Pool\\" full of almost every character of significance who has previously appeared, and then some new ones, that the focus is too diffused for proper plot development, let alone character development. And what does Peters do with the characters? Walter and Evelyn are wrecked; Cyrus and Kevin have nothing to do; after showing signs of improvement Ramses has gone downhill again; and Nefret has to be one of the most singularly boring characters I have ever come across. Sir Edward (how can a younger son have that title?) and Miss Marmaduke are afterthoughts, and David was pretty well unnecessary. Amelia is back to insufferable, so thank heavens Emerson was his usual self in this book.  Whenever the plot of \\"The Hippopotamus Pool\\" showed signs of picking up, things would go flat again. The Emersons are contacted by a mysterious stranger . . . and nothing happens. They travel to Luxor . . . and nothing happens. They discover the tomb . . . and nothing happens. Between her (I think increasingly odd) determination to have no discovery made by the Emersons impact on the real history of Egyptology and her desire to flesh out what is less and less a mystery series than a family saga, Peters in this book loses the sense of direction and fun that characterised previous books in this series. And as for the ending . . . No-one could possibly have figured it out, and that violates the unofficial contract between mystery writer and mystery reader.  So why the two stars? The journey did have its good points. It wasn't till I'd finished that I realised I felt cheated by this book.  And what on earth is the Hippopotamus Pool anyway? Am I missing something?	2003-01-17
US	36242422	RPAW1XBN69ZHQ	0374474133	172650874	Tales from Moominvalley (Moomins)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A real surprise	I picked up this book because I thought I hadn't read it before, wanting to see the Moominvalley books through adult eyes - not to have my childhood memories of favourite books tarnished. As it turns out, I had read \\"Tales from Moominvalley\\" before (the fungus-covered granny was the trigger for my recollection), but I was really relieved to find that Tove Jansson's books are just as good as I remember - and there is, I think, even more for the adult to appreciate and enjoy than there is for the child.<BR>I generally dislike the short story genre, but not when it's done like this. Every short story is simply that, a short story; not a contrived literary exercise with the obligatory \\"twist in the tail\\". Jansson's stories are charming little gems, full of wonderful moments and images, thought-provoking and touching. Her characters are often the lonely, the lost, and the troubled, and she makes you feel for them and understand them, without ever becoming ridiculous or sentimental. The tales about Snufkin and his tune and the Fillyjonk who believed in disasters are shining examples of this. But Jansson can write humour and happiness just as well, as the tales of the invisible child and the fir tree show.<BR>I really can't speak highly enough of this book. Jansson's wonderful insight into people, her spare, deft prose, and her brilliant imagination make a great combination. Buy it for your children or for yourself.	2002-12-13
US	36242422	R1C1HLWWO7EI3Y	0061002046	568666406	Bath Tangle	Books	2	9	19	N	N	My least favourite	Leave this way down on your list of Heyer's books to read. Heyer's usual virtues of good writing and period detail can't make up for characters who are unpleasant (Rotherham), unlikeable (Serena), or just boring (everyone else, with the exception of Mrs Floore). The story is as slow as Serena finds life after her father's death. Read \\"Black Sheep\\" instead for a fun tale about romance in Bath.	2002-12-12
US	36242422	RQV7B574RH0I1	0061001775	196766806	A Civil Contract	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Reality strikes	This is not a typical Georgette Heyer novel. It is neither an eighteenth century tale of intrigue nor a Regency comedy. I think it is best described as a relationship novel that happens to be set in the Regency period.<BR>Captain Adam Deveril becomes Viscount Lynton on the sudden death of his extravagant, debt-ridden father. Finding himself facing financial ruin, he faces the prospect of losing both his ancestral lands and the woman he loves, the beautiful and romantic Julia Oversley. Lord Oversley, seeking a way to help Adam out, puts him in touch with Jonathon Chawley, a vulgar but immensely rich merchant. Chawleigh's only child is Jenny, a plain and definitely unromantic friend of Julia's, and her father is seeking a marriage into the nobility for her. By marrying Jenny, Adam manages to fend off one disaster and retains his ancestral lands. But how will he recover from his broken heart? What will become of Julia? And how will Jenny cope with marriage to a man that does not love her and that takes her outside the world she is familiar with?<BR>There is a lot to like in this book. The characters are very well delineated, the historical and period detail grounds the story effortlessly, and the story never drags, despite the essential mundanity of its events. Mundanity is really the key here, and I don't mean that as a disparagement, for \\"A Civil Contract\\" is all about the little things in life: home, family, and how people get along together.<BR>Where this book falls down for me is character. I just don't find anything much to like in Adam. He thinks to himself at one point, \\"I take everything and give nothing\\", and that sums him up pretty well. His thoughts about his own nobility as compared to Chawleigh's vulgarity are pretty grating too, considering his father-in-law's kind heart and great achievements (unlike Adam, he was born with nothing). Julia inspired me with nothing but the desire to give her a good slap, and even Jenny herself is not especially interesting (though again, this is the point of the story - her ordinariness). The supporting characters are more fun, from the dragon Lady Nassington, to Dowager Lady Lynton, always ready to inspire guilt in those around her, the fun-loving Lydia, and the Marquis of Rockhill, a peculiar mix of tenderness and sarcasm.<BR>Don't expect great excitment from this book. This is a quiet tale of domesticity and the trials of life as its two protaganists grow together. Very readable.	2002-12-12
US	36242422	R2E07YVXQ3HB9Y	006100166X	91926156	Friday's Child	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Great fun	This is a great story. It's light-hearted and full of fun, but has its serious side and some truly touching moments as well.<BR>Sherry (Viscount Sheringham) has just has his proposal of marriage spurned by the Incomparable Isabella. Further put out of temper by his dreadful mother and uncle, he storms back to London, vowing to marry the first woman he sees. That happens to be Hero, a sixteen-year-old orphaned neighbour who has been devoted to him ever since they were children. Both are happy with his plan, Sherry because it will put him in control of his fortune and Hero because it gives her an escape from the tyranny of the cousins she lives with. But Sherry, who is both wild and irresponsible, does not find it as easy to have a wife as he thought it would be, while Hero, who was never trained for the position she now holds, finds herself falling into one disaster after another. She finds her position growing ever more difficult, especially when she comes to realise that she loves Sherry, but he does not seem to love her. When yet another social faux pas seems like the final straw for her and Sherry's marriage, she takes desperate action that might save the day . . . or will it?<BR>Sherry and Hero are great characters, and make a lovely couple. Both are kind-hearted, irresponsible, hedonistic and hot-tempered. I also love this book for Sherry's friends. Gil is the token sensible person, Ferdy is well-mannered but thick, and George is a highly romantic figure, desperately in love with Isabella and forever trying to pick fights. The back-and-forth between Hero, Isabella, and Sherry and his friends is what really makes this book. Heyer displays her talent for comedy and for choosing exactly the right word to perfection.<BR>Does everything turn out well in the end? Of course it does - but not in the way you might expect. Keep an eye out for the pickpocket turned groom.	2002-12-12
US	36242422	R3NUQS0N8GTLD4	0786927089	422037845	Dragons of Summer Flame	Books	1	52	62	N	N	A travesty	Yes, this book truly is a travesty of all that once made Dragonlance great. Weis and Hickman seem to have caught the latest disease to hit fantasy author circles: I'll destroy the world I've created because it's mine, and because it's mine I have to control it all and once I'm done with it no-one will ever be able to play with it again,ahaha!! <BR>Whatever happened to leaving things at a certain point, and then allowing readers to imagine for themselves what comes next? Don't such authors feel any duty towards, or sympthay for, their readers these days, let alone their own literary works (yes, I do think Dragonlance Legends were that good)? Can't publishing companies allow a series to stand as a good piece of writing, complete within itself, rather than wrecking it for the sake of trying to sell yet another spin-off novel or game module/handbook/accessory?<BR>I frankly don't care whether Weis and Hickman were driven to produce \\"Dragons of Summer Flame\\" by contractual obligations. It is an abysmal book, and the authors' own lack of interest shines out clearly on every page. All the characters are treated perfunctorily, there is no emotional depth to them, and there is one dire cameo after another, simply for the sake of bringing back some familiar faces. The plot is hopelessly bad and jumps around all over the place; it's like the book suddenly began in the middle, and there are still huge chunks missing. People who were in one place are suddenly in another, with no indication of how they got there; there is no real indication of how much time is passing. Even worse, the book reads like a game module, with slabs of pointless history (Who cares what happened to the other Towers of High Sorcery within the context of this story?), features of cities (Who knew that Palanthas has a Thieves Guild? Who cares?), gods I've never heard of suddenly appearing, and events from past books (Many of which I've never read) all jammed in, to what end I cannot imagine.<BR>But worst ofall is the tone of \\"Dragons of Summer Flame\\". The earlier books had real emotional power, and a feeling of being very human, despite the epic events they narrated. This book is totally, horribly flat. In contrast to the way characters' wishes and feelings drove the earlier books, this time we have the pathetically weak, lowest-grade fantasy spectacle of a god seeking revenge for his imprisonment in a magical gem which has been shattered by some weaklings hoping to feel safe. All sorts of cosmological concepts and new races seem to have been created simply so the plot could follow this path. From that point on, everyone just reacts to the coming end of the world in a variety of stereotypical ways.  <BR>Dragonlance Legends brought everything to a fitting end. Weis and Hickman should have left their world alone from that point onwards. The rot set in with the story of Palin receiving the Staff of Magius (Can't we put a stop to \\"son of\\" stories in the fantasy genre?), and has only continued. \\"Dragons of Summer Flame\\" should never have been written. If you loved the original books, as I do, do yourself a favour and never read this book.	2002-11-15
US	36242422	RPU7TY0O3UH8P	0553575422	391056416	Luck in the Shadows (Nightrunner, Vol. 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Ho-hum	I would have preferred to give \\"Luck in the Shadows\\" two and a half stars. It's competently written, but I just didn't find it very interesting. The storyline was very typical of fantasy novels (with strong shades of a certain other author for a large part of the book), and was definitely the first part of a series, rather than being self-contained. The unanswered questions about the artefact that affected Seregil, those hunting it, and the apparent coming war were very annoying. Is the storyline that suddenly developed of plots against the Queen picked up in the subsequent novels? If not, it comes across as filler. A tighter structure, a less typical storyline, and a greater concentration on what skills a good thief and spy needs to have would have improved \\"Luck in the Shadows\\" significantly.	2002-10-08
US	36242422	R1DWS8WF8IVVJ0	0312966318	575432338	An Unholy Alliance (Matthew Bartholomew Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Typical of the series	Two years or so after the events of \\"A Plague on Both Your Houses\\", Matthew Bartholomew is displeased to find himself once more investigating murders and mysterious goings on in Cambridge, 1350. This time, his investigations are not a matter of choice; he and his colleague from Michaelhouse, the Benedictine monk Brother Michael, have been ordered by the University Chancellor to get to the bottom of things.<BR>There's a lot to like about Susanna Gregory's series about Bartholomew. She brings medieval Cambridge to life in all its turbulence and dirt, and incorporates all sorts of period detail so that it seems entirely natural, not like you're being given a lecture on how people lived then. She has created many likeable characters, without ever making them seem unrealistically modern in their sensibilities. Bartholomew, the physician and university lecturer and hero of the tales, is the best of these: thoughtful, dedicated, and kind, but also naive, temperamental, and rash. Other recurring characters, even those with bit parts, are similarly engaging. She really uses the University of Cambridge, having her characters investigate according to the rules of logic they have been taught, and making the colleges, students, and masters a strong part of her tales. Gregory also has some real skill at comic writing, which makes for the occasional hilarious interlude.<BR>I read Gregory's books non-stop, they are that compelling, but I am not always satisfied when I finish them. I am not convinced the reader is given enough clues to figure things out. On the other hand, I practically never manage to work out any mystery novels I read, so maybe other readers don't have this complaint. The plots are very convoluted, so it can be hard to keep track of everything that's going on, and sometimes the denouement doesn't seem worth everything that's gone before. But again, that's perhaps just a personal judgement, rather than an actual flaw. The writing could sometimes be a bit more polished, and all the rhetorical questions do get on my nerves after a while.<BR>\\"An Unholy Alliance\\" is amongst the best of Gregory's books. It is slightly different in tone to \\"A Plague on Both Your Houses\\", but that's not a criticism. It has two intertwined mysteries that it is becoming more and more urgent to have solved: an attempted theft from the University Chest which leads to a mysterious death, and the murders of the town's prostitutes. Bartholomew and Michael get to the bottom of the first mystery in a way they never expected. But will anyone believe Bartholomew when he proposes a solution to the second? The denoument is exciting, and the motives of the criminals and the way everything comes together at the end is believable and satisfying.<BR>One reason I like Matthew Bartholomew as a character so much is because he's not a superman. He often puts the pieces together, but he rarely, if ever, does it all on his own. Nor does he always get it right, or know what to do in every situation, or prove himself able to handle anything and everything. These books are a team effort amongst the characters, and that is one of their strengths.	2002-09-25
US	36242422	RZ814MNWUTFSS	0446363383	297357836	The Last Camel Died at Noon (Amelia Peabody, Book 6)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Back on form	Three and a half stars is what this really deserves, but it's not possible to give it that. This is a good fun read, made better than some of its recent predecessors by a reduced emphasis on how good Amelia thinks she is, a less annoying Ramses, and a stronger plot. Emerson is the same as ever, but I'm not complaining about that.<BR>This is high melodrama and adventure, with plots and mysteries abounding as the Peabody-Emersons set off into the desert in search of a missing explorer and find themselves in the midst of a power struggle in a hidden kingdom. Really enjoyable and with a good setting, though I did think the ending fell a bit flat. Perhaps I should have read my Rider Haggard directly before reading &quot;The Last Camel Died At Noon&quot;, to fully appreciate all the references and jokes?	2002-09-25
US	36242422	RDLI8LZ3MFKD0	0671541730	31978101	Dyson Sphere (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 50)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	One from the remainder bin . . .	This book seems to prove the saying &quot;A champion team is better than a team of champions&quot;. Given the authors' apparent credentials, you could be forgiven for expecting a lot more from &quot;Dyson Sphere&quot;.<br />The question that came to my mind after finishing this book was &quot;Why?&quot; What was the point of a book that executes such mind-blowing concepts in such a shallow and unsatisfying way? A book that could have held so much and delivers so little? Any tale of the exploration of the Dyson Sphere - even one that employs the terrible cliche of taking the Sphere far beyond the reach of mere mortals before anything meaningful can be learnt - needed to be epic. &quot;Dyson Sphere&quot; wasn't. It was perfunctory at best, with nothing explained and everything skated over in a rushed manner. There was no sense of character, and the authors have little or no talent for visual description. The frequent attempts at deep and meaningful statements that punctuated the action sat very awkwardly. At times the writing was so bad I couldn't follow what was happening and what the characters were thinking/saying/doing. And the essays at the end did strike me as somewhat self-indulgent.<br />Okay, there's more science in &quot;Dyson Sphere&quot; than in any other Star Trek novel I've read, but as with any other science fiction novel, something more than good science and fantastic ideas is needed. A plot and characters would have been a good place to start. I would suggest to Messrs Zebrowski and Pellegrino that they try again, do another book unconnected to Star Trek so that they can have as many pages to fill as they please and remain unbound by the conventions of the Star Trek Universe as they explore their own fantastic ideas.<br />I really did find this book in a remainder bin. Now I know why. But I've given it two stars (which may be overly generous) because at least &quot;Dyson Sphere&quot; aimed high.	2002-09-12
US	36242422	R31403VMW5KIMX	0671797042	636423463	Sins of Commission (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 29)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Could have been better	There were some really intriguing ideas in &quot;Sins of Commission&quot; - some very alien aliens, a series of crimes to solve, personal conflicts that need resolution.<BR>Unfortunately, Wright's writing skills do not match up to her imagination. The characterisation did not match that in the TV series particularly well, and the writing was frequently clunky. Some matters, such as Tarses' problems and his solution, were explained less clearly than they should have been.<BR>&quot;Sins of Commission&quot; could have been better. Let's hope that Wright keeps at it, so that her skills come to match her creativity.	2002-09-05
US	36242422	RP9K6B1U51NRJ	0727812262	258790079	The Amtrak Wars: Book Two : First Family (Bk. 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The plot thickens . . .	Steven Roosevelt Brickman returns to the Amtrak Federation after five months of captivity by the Mutes. He thinks he will be a hero - a brave survivor bringing back valuable intelligence that the Mutes are a lot smarter and have a lot more resources than is believed. Instead, he is stripped of everything and consigned to the A-levels to work out his life as the lowest of the low, maintaining the environmental systems the allow the underground Federation to function. And then he is offered a way out, plus a return to the overground. Steve's loyalties are about to be put under even more pressure than before . . .<BR>\\"First Family\\" is as good as \\"Cloud Warrior\\", though it feels more claustrophobic. That's no surprise, though, as that's exactly how Steve is feeling himself as he re-enters his old life. There's perhaps a little less action, but action is not really the point of this book. Despite the importance of the plot, \\"First Family\\" is a scene-setter: from it, we learn a lot more about the Mutes and the Amtrak Federation, and especially the manipulations that have affected Steve's life since birth. The First Family - whom we actually meet - view him as a tiny cog in a very large machine, theirs to use at will. Whether he proves to be valuable or dangerous, they'll use him as much as possible. And Steve is still too naive to realise exactly what his situation is.<BR>\\"First Family\\" also sets up the action for the coming books. Roz and Jodi are reintroduced, and we meet two other Trackers who will be very important later, Kelso and Malone. And Steve accepts a dangerous mission from Mr Snow which is played out in the third book, \\"Iron-Master\\".<BR>It's sad and frustrating to see how Steve is manipulated by those around him, despite his cleverness. But he is determined to find the truth and run his own life, and that has just as much impact on the plot as those manipulations.<BR>The setting and plot of \\"First Family\\" are as intriguing as as those of \\"Cloud-Warrior\\". Justtry to ignore the nastiness of the relationship between Steve and Roz.	2002-08-27
US	36242422	R1QU105HXO2WE7	0396088031	998599484	The Moving Finger	Books	3	12	15	N	N	My favourite Agatha Christie	This book is really enjoyable. It has an interesting plot, a satisfying mystery, and some very likeable characters. It was originally published in the early 1940s, but since the war is not mentioned or referred to in any way, perhaps it is meant to be set in the 1930s.<BR>Jerry Burton is the narrator of The Moving Finger. He has withdrawn to Lymstock, a quiet country village, to recover from a flying accident, accompanied by his fashionable sister Joanna. Both of them are planning to take it easy, get to know their neighbours, and generally enjoy themselves. Then the arrival of an anonymous poison pen letter makes them wonder if they are as welcome in Lymstock as they had thought - until they find that there's an epidemic of nasty letters in the village. A worrying climate is developing, as people are beginning to take the contents of the letters seriously. And then Mrs Symmington, the local lawyer's wife, commits suicide after receiving such a letter. But since this an Agatha Christie book, we know that things aren't that simple.<BR>Unlike a lot of Christie's books, it's the characters that make this one. Jerry is gruff but kind-hearted, and not afraid to say what he thinks. Joanna is likewise kind-hearted, but less obvious about it; willing to niggle and manipulate to challenge people's views or get her own way. Other characters such as Owen Griffiths, the doctor; his sister, the annoyingly hearty Aimee; and Mrs Dane Calthrop, the disconcerting vicar's wife, also capture the attention and move the story along. Megan Hunter, Mrs Symmington's daughter, is another good character, a &quot;changeling&quot; who doesn't fit into village life and is taken under Jerry and Joanna's wing.<BR>So what, you may ask, is the connection of Jerry to the poison pen letters? Being an outsider, he isn't willing to sweep the matter under the rug, and works with the police to solve the crime - the solution of which is both ingenious, and something the alert reader (that is, a lot more alert than me!) has a fair chance of figuring out. Don't expect much Miss Marple in this book, though (which I was kind of glad of - the more I read of her, the less I like her) - she only turns up towards the very end to reveal all. It's kind of a pity she appears at all, since Jerry is strong enough to carry the book on his own, and MM's appearance is merely an in-joke to the established reader of Christie's books.<BR>The Moving Finger has the usual Christie strengths of an ingenious plot, a clarity of style, and justice being done. Add to that good characters and something I particularly enjoy, a window into a world that no longer exists, and you have a very good book. I think it's one of her best.	2002-07-26
US	36242422	R3V11PDG3XOKM	0552142999	956176301	Parson Harding's Daughter	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Disappointing	This book was not what I expected - but never having read anything by Joanna Trollope/Caroline Harvey before, that's probably an unfair criticism. I was expecting a light historical romance, but that's not what this book is. I was expecting Caroline and John to come together, as could be expected from the premise set up in the synopsis, but that's not how things turned out. Think of this book more as &quot;virtue is its own reward&quot; or &quot;a saga of personal growth in the face of adversity&quot; than a romance. There's no fun in this book, and all the characters, with the exception of one supporting character in India, are repellent or uninteresting. Period detail is rather lacking, too.<BR>Perhaps if you know what to expect from this author, you will find more to enjoy here than I did.	2002-07-26
US	36242422	R3FTYONAOS6TW4	0345402928	916153960	Crystal Singer Trilogy	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Pretty awful	There's a lot wrong with Crystal Line. Anne McCaffrey would have done better to have left the Crystal Singer series at two books and not written this at all.<BR>I enjoyed the first two books in this series despite Killashandra, not because of her. She's her usual unpleasant self in this book, only more so. But the problems in this book go far beyond an unsympathetic heroine. <BR>The plot is disjointed. Killashandra and her lover/professional partner Lars travel to an alien planet in a brain&brawn ship to investigate \\"jewel junk\\" - a substance that may or may not be a life-form, and may or may not be intelligent. Having successfully completed that assignment, Killashandra and Lars return to Ballybran to resume their crystal-cutting career. It is here that the plot takes a ninety-degree turn. On Ballybran, tragedy strikes when Lanzecki, Guildmaster of the Heptite Guild, dies. Lars takes over the position - and Killashandra can't handle the change in circumstances. The lovers split, both personally and professionally. Killashandra goes off on her own, while Lars struggles to turn around the stuggling Guild. Eventually, they are reconciled - and then help with the \\"jewel junk\\" is requested from them once more. Tragedy in a couple of different forms strikes, and then everything is resolved happily. By this time it is clear than the \\"jewel junk\\" storyline, which took up so much space initially and promised a different kind of book, is nothing more than a deus ex machina device to manipulate a happy ending.<BR>Characterisation is also a problem. The supposed depth of the supposed love between Killashandra and Lars does not shine through; and given how unpleasant Killashandra is, it's hard to believe that she cares for Lars, or that he could care about her at all. There's no real depth to any of the characters, and the \\"crises\\" that each of them face do not come across to the reader with the force with which they are meant to have struck the suffering characters. Then there's McCaffrey's usual propensity for cheap titillation.<BR>McCaffrey seems to have been struck with a disease that is becoming more and more common amongst authors: the desire to control your imaginary world from beginning to end. All the problems of Killashandra, Lars, and the Heptite Guild and all its members are solved by the end of this book, or as good as - no room for more stories, everything closed off with a happy-ever-after ending. If she felt it absolutely necessary to close out this series, rather than leave it open-ended, she could have given us something better than this contrived, shallow effort.<BR>Crystal Line is not up to the standard of The Crystal Singer and Killashandra. Read them instead, and remember how much better this series used to be.	2002-07-11
US	36242422	R2YLWHMRUPMDJ4	0140258205	937614457	Nefertiti: Egypt's Sun Queen	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Solid, but not inspiring	I was somewhat disappointed by this book. The title gives the impression that it will be a biography of Nefertiti. It would have been better titled &quot;What we think we know about Nefertiti and the Armarna Period from rock carvings&quot;.<BR>Having read a number of books on Akhenaten, Nefertiti, Tutankhamun, etc., I found very little that was new in Tyldesley's offering. A different perspective is always welcome, but Tydesley did not &quot;think outside the square&quot; in any meaningful way. She follows the same chronological trail as other authors, using the same pieces of evidence. While she does delve into the history of the Eighteenth Dynasty, this book could have been more fully grounded in other ways. For example, how would a girl of Nefertiti's social class have been brought up? How would her parents have lived? What is the current thinking on what marriage meant to the ancient Egyptians? What are the daily duties of a queen? Tackling these issues could have brought life to both Nefertiti and the book, and gone some way towards making it the biography the title seemed to promise. If details on these points do not exist, Tydlesley could at least have said so. <BR>Tydesley's style of writing is uninspiring and there was not enough in the way of footnotes and extra information for my liking. Certain points of evidence are interpreted in very different ways by different scholars, and I would have appreciated reading the pros and cons of these debates and thus learning exactly why Tyldesley came to some of the conclusions she did. I agree with other reviewers that better visual aids would have been appreciated in this book.<BR>Joyce Tydesley's Nefertiti is, as far as I can tell from my amateur perspective, a solid offering that covers the main points. But it left me wanting more of everything: more evidence, more theories, more pictures, more excitement, more that was new to me. I would not recommend it unless you already have some familiarity with Ancient Egypt.	2002-07-09
US	36242422	R1Z87UUEJ5T776	0380817144	701835154	Lord of the Silent (Amelia Peabody, Book 13)	Books	1	1	7	N	N	Perfunctory and boring	There's no wit or charm here - just a plodding tale, the resolution of which comes out of nowhere, without suspense. Nothing for a reader new to this series, and precious little for the fan.	2002-07-07
US	36242422	RX27GPU158Z5K	0380798581	734607570	He Shall Thunder in the Sky	Books	2	3	8	N	N	The hagiography of Ramses . . .	What are this book's good points? Well, it's fat (if you like that kind of thing), densely written, atmospheric in its setting, and full of intrigue. There is more time with your favourite characters, if you're a fan of the series, and some amusing moments. There are also many loose ends tied up, and some astonishing revelations about the villains of the piece.<BR>What are this book's bad points? Sometimes it is unclear whether it is supposed to be a romp or deadly serious, fun or high art. Archaeological digging and mystery is kept to a minimum, and Amelia and Emerson do not get much of a role. The focus is squarely upon the boring Ramses and Nefret, their son and ward, respectively. <BR>Exactly why Peters has chosen to go with this departure from what made the others in the series I have read (with the exception of Falcon at the Portal) so much fun, I really couldn't say. But since I care just as much about a good plot as I do about the characters, I would not class this change as a success. In Thunder in the Sky, the bulk of the plot is concerned with Ramses' double-dealing as he attempts to unmask a traitor within the British administration in the early stages of World War One. Woven within this is the unresolved romantic tension between him and Nefret. They love each other, but the usual litany of misunderstandings, assumptions, and misplaced pride still keep them apart. As with Amelia's manoeuvrings with the Master Criminal, it's really only of interest if 1) you have read the other books in this vein and 2) want the focus upon family drama and tying up loose ends. Myself, I prefer the usual archaeological adventure with a mysterious twist.<BR>Thunder in the Sky is competently written, by Peters' standards, though I do think she overreaches herself occasionally in tone. For example, some of Ramses' internal thoughts about the virtues of Nefret after his rescue - honestly, you would think that Nefret was the most perfect woman that ever existed and this book high art. But the story is just not particularly interesting. And I am getting very, very tired of Ramses' perfection.<BR>One for the fans, and then only for a certain type of fan. I could not, in all honesty, recommend this book to someone who has not read an Amelia Peabody book before. If you are new to Elizabeth Peters, start at the beginning of the series.	2002-07-05
US	36242422	R3UEC79AEKG6ZU	0380731959	277955517	The Deeds of the Disturber (Amelia Peabody, Book 5)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Solid, but not inspiring	I found this a solid read, but not one of the best Amelia Peabody books I have read. The characters are as lively and entertaining as ever - though I can't stand Ramses - and it's always nice to catch up with the next installment of their lives. The Deeds of the Disturber was particularly well written, and I think it was an improvement on Lion in the Valley in that respect. I just didn't think that the plot of The Deeds of the Disturber matched up to some of the other books in the series.<br />Amelia and her husband, Emerson, return home after another season of archeological exploration in Egypt. The plan is to stay in London, so Emerson can consult the resources of the British Museum to finish his book. Yet there are mysterious goings-on at the Museum, all focused upon a mummy whose curse has already claimed one life - or is it just journalistic hyperbole? Through their connections to the archeological and Egyptian communities, Amelia and Emerson find themselves drawn into the mystery. Matters become stranger and stranger, leading to a highly melodramatic conclusion. Set against this is a tiresome sub-plot involving their son Ramses and his two little wretches of cousins, Percy and &quot;dear little Violet&quot; - really, how obtuse can two parents be?<BR>Peters makes an atmospheric setting out of the murk of London, and Amelia moves through society both high and low with her usual panache. The return of Kevin O'Connell, journalist extraordinaire, was particularly welcome, and Miss Minton makes a good addition to the cast of recurring characters. There are a number of very funny scenes in The Deeds of the Disturber, and we do learn more about our favourite characters, but the mystery plot does not really add up to anything and is not, in the end, particularly interesting. I was pleased with myself that I managed to figure out part of the mystery, because that's a feat usually well beyond my powers. I'm not convinced, though, that Peters ever gives her readers enough clues to figure it all out.<BR>If you're a fan, you should enjoy this - my criticisms are a matter of opinion, after all. If you haven't read any of the Amelia Peabody mysteries before, you would be better advised to start with a different book - perhaps The Curse of the Pharaohs.	2002-07-03
US	36242422	R1KCFWIES2T5CJ	0380798573	93178652	The Falcon at the Portal (Amelia Peabody, Book 11)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A different sort of novel	Falcon at the Portal was a new type of Amelia Peabody book for me. Very different to others in the series I have read, I did feel somewhat let down by it. The mystery storyline we have come to expect is, in this book, only incidental. Family drama is what Peters has given us instead. In the hands of a less accomplished writer, I would be tempted to call it melodrama. The difficulty for me is, The Deeds of the Disturber is the most recent book in the series I have read before this; so what may make sense in the context of the whole series came out of nowhere for me. The two-star rating is partly because, as well written as Falcon at the Portal is, this book is not what I've come to expect either from Peters or from her series.<BR>The book opens with the wedding of Amelia's niece Lia to Egyptian family friend David - and the revelation that David is suspected of trading in stolen antiquities. This gives the whole Emerson clan a new mystery to look into when they travel to Egypt for their annual archaeological dig. The usual roll-call of old friends and new characters appears once the action shifts to Egypt - and one of them ends up dead at the bottom of the shaft in the pyramid the Emersons are excavating. So between the need to clear David's name and the need to explain the fate of the murder victim, there is a great deal of scope for Amelia's usual feisty investigations, backed up by Emerson's temperamental but kind-hearted assistance.<BR>But sadly, Peters provides little of this. The bulk of the book is actually taken up with the romantic drama between Ramses, Amelia and Emerson's son, and Nefret, their ward. Ramses has loved Nefret for years, and seems finally to have won her heart - until circumstances intervene, when Nefret repudiates Ramses and takes precipitate action, the repercussions of which will be felt for a long time to come.<BR>I did not like the impulsive and unreasonable Nefret. I have never liked Ramses. Peters' treatment of him comes dangerously close to hagiography, and I find all his noble suffering tedious. That said, I might feel differently had I read the other books that introduce Nefret and deal with Ramses as an adult.<BR>I read the Amelia Peabody series for mystery and adventure, and especially for Amelia and Emerson. I'm not really interested in their children and all their carryings-on, and so I would be very glad for the series to return to its original focus. However, this is a matter of personal taste. Others like different things from the series, and Falcon at the Portal is undeniably a well-written book, with some powerful scenes.<BR>So if you want a family drama with all your favourite characters, you may be satisfied by this - but you will have to read Thunder in the Sky afterwards. If you want a proper mystery novel, you should perhaps look elsewhere.	2002-07-03
US	36242422	R22N1IMJDE77KK	006441034X	458436371	Howl's Moving Castle (World of Howl)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A classic	Exciting, funny, and poignant in turn, this book is consistently charming - and there's never a dull moment.<BR>Sophie Hatter lives in the town of Market Chipping. She is the eldest of three daughters, and feels that this circumstance is certain to result in a boring life for her. How wrong she was! A curse is placed on Sophie by the Witch of the Waste, changing her from an eighteen year old girl to an old lady. Feeling that she has nothing to lose now, Sophie slips away from her hat shop and heads off to seek her fortune. Outside Market Chipping, she encounters a dog, a scarecrow . . . and Howl's castle. Howl is a mysterious wizard whose castle drifts about the hills outside the town. He is much feared by the peeople of Market Chipping, not least because he is said to devour the hearts of young girls. Sophie enters the castle and meets Howl's fire demon, Calcifer. Calcifer recognises that Sophie is under a curse, and offers to lift it from her if she finds a way to break his contract with Howl. Sophie agrees, and stays in the castle as Howl's cleaning lady so she can hunt for the information she needs. Then Sophie meets Howl . . . and gets drawn deeper and deeper into the lives of Howl, Calcifer, and Michael, Howl's apprentice. Howl, too, is under a curse from the Witch of the Waste. Can he avoid the curse? And what will happen to him and the kingdom of Ingary if the Witch cannot be defeated?<BR>The characters in Howl's Moving Castle are wonderful. Howl is vain and cowardly, a slob and a \\"slitherer-outer\\" - but as the book continues, we learn that he is far from being the evil wizard he would like everyone to believe he is. Much of the poignancy of the story comes from learning just why Howl is the way he is. Sophie is brave, determined, and kind, but capable of being very fierce. She is far from stupid, but she is rather naive at times. Her realisation of the freedom that being an old lady offers her is delightful. The lesser characters are all distinctive, and very enjoyable, particularly Calcifer.<BR>I found the setting very well done, with enough detail to allow you to imagine it all satisfactorily, but never getting bogged down in description. The plot is a lot of fun, though it may be too subtle in some parts for younger readers to appreciate fully. It is highly imaginative, and moves along at a good pace. It is far from predictable, too; but by the end, everything is resolved satisfactorily. The problems of Sophie and her sisters, Howl, Calcifer, the dog, the scarecrow, and the kingdom, are all solved, and I felt really happy for the characters that they were.<BR>If this book is not already considered a classic, it deserves to be - and it's just as much fun for adults as it is for children.	2002-07-02
US	36242422	R1SU3NBRXVVTR6	1857981685	453186682	Isaac Asimov's Caliban	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Better than Asimov	Superficially, at least, Isaac Asimov's Caliban is like many of the Asimov robot novels: a human investigator working with a robot partner to solve a crime against a political background. The way the story is contructed is somewhat similar, as is the restrained use of language and the &quot;feel&quot;. But I found this book far superior to any of Asimov's novels.<br />A crime is committed at Leving Laboratories on the planet of Inferno. The planet's best roboticist has been assaulted, and unbelievably, the attacker seems to have been - a robot. The Sheriff of Hades, Alvar Kresh, is called in to investigate with his robot assistant, Donald. Meanwhile, the presence of Settlers on the planet, called in to assist with Inferno's failing terraforming, complicates matters . . . and the robot Caliban is awake and on the loose, with only a limited understanding of what is around him.<br />Allen just writes so well, and so much better than Asimov ever did. His characters, both human and robot, leap out at you as real. Alvar Kresh and Fredda Leving, the roboticist, have genuine depth and engage our sympathies. The setting of Inferno is really brought to life, both its geography and people, and we are thus given something that Asimov never gave us: a solid picture of Spacer society. In Caliban, we have the naive observer, who both drives the action and provides a useful commentary on what he sees around him. That commentary links in to the central issues of the novel: why are things the way they are between humans and robots? Is the status quo harmful to both? Fredda's responses to these questions, the actions they lead her into, and what results from them, are really at the heart of this story.<br />I always really enjoyed Asimov's classic robot novels, but reading Allen's has shown me how limited they are. With his superior characterisation and writing abilities, and the way he takes fresh ideas about robots to their logical conclusion, Allen gives us a more enjoyable and thought-provoking read than Asimov ever did.rovoking read than Asimov ever did.	2002-07-02
US	36242422	RP91AZE0YPIWR	0064473457	345960423	Castle in the Air (World of Howl)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A lot of fun	Abdullah is a young carpet merchant. He likes to daydream to escape the more mundane aspects of his life, and creates detailed fantasies of adventure, palaces, and a beautiful princess. His life suddenly becomes much more exciting when he buys a flying carpet and meets a princess, the lovely Flower-in-the-Night - only to have her snatched away from him by a djinni. Fleeing the wrath of Flower-in-the-Night's father and his relatives' plans to marry him off, Abdullah goes in search of his princess . . . and find himself caught up with bandits, djinni, a pair of mysterious cats, a sneaky soldier, and one very bad-tempered genie in a bottle.<BR>This is a lovely story. I couldn't put it down. Abdullah is resourceful and smart, coping well with all the difficult situations he finds himself in; he is compassionate, too. Flower-in-the-Night is charming and clever, and is doing very well at planning her escape by the time Abdullah manages to catch up with her. There are so many funny moments in this book, from the genie's malicious fulfilment of Abdullah's wishes to the problems a flying castle full of princesses can cause their djinni captors. And if you have read Howl's Moving Castle, you do get to meet some old friends again, however briefly - though this story would have been just as good without them.<BR>The title of the story comes not just from Howl's flying castle that the djinni have taken over and renovated, but from Abdullah's daydreams. In the end, all his daydreams came true - but not in a way he had ever expected. So it's just as well that this book has a happy ending for all concerned.	2002-07-02
US	36242422	R3MDTL53J0P5G4	0786916613	639227592	Elfsong (Forgotten Realms: Songs and Swords, Book 2)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Easily her best	This is the best of Cunningham's books. It has a fast-paced plot with a number of interesting elements, but escapes being too complicated, Cunningham's usual flaw. Danilo and Elaith Craulnober come to the fore with no Arilyn around to darken the tone. The ambiguous relationship between the noble Human and the self-centered, evil, yet oddly likeable elf helps drive the action forward, and the bickering between them provides some good comedy moments. The supporting characters are likewise fun, and are well-written to provide assistance or insight to the main characters at the appropriate moments. The villains of the piece are not unsympathetic either, as they have good reasons for their actions, and all of them find themselves caught up in circumstances beyond their control.<BR>I'm still not certain why Garnet, the rebel bard and Harper, should have left the means of undoing her plan with the dragon - a misplaced sense of fair play, perhaps? It would have been nice to have more of an explanation into how the status of bards had declined and how their role in the Harpers changed, and why Garnet was so bitter about it. And the unravelling of her plot and the arrival of the dragon in Waterdeep seemed a little too melodramatic to me.<BR>Yet those should not be taken as seriously detracting from this book. It's a fun read, well written and with some surprisingly poignant moments. A good example of what Cunningham is capable of at her best.	2002-07-01
US	36242422	R1B35OWWGJ2UCY	0345407407	113547668	Traveling with the Dead	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Old favourite	This is one of my &quot;junk reads&quot;, the old favourites I pull out to read one more time when I've run out of everything new.<BR>James Asher is a former spy who has retired into the sedate life of an Oxford don, but finds the habits of his old life hard to break. When he spots the vampire Earl of Ernchester in company with Ignace Karolyi, a man Asher knows full well is a spy for the Austro-Hungarian Empire, his sense of responsibility leads him to chase them across Europe. For Asher knows only too well the power of vampires, and the thought of them in the service of any intelligence service is just too horrible to contemplate. Asher leaves a message with Lydia, his young doctor wife, telling her where to seek news of him in Vienna - but Lydia, following up a remembered reference in a medical journal, realises that her husband is going to seek help of a double agent. And so she sets off after her husband. She is joined in Paris by the vampire Don Simon Ysidro, to whom she had appealed for help, and Margaret Potton, a foolish ex-governess whom Ysidro has beguiled into loving him in order to have a suitable chaperone for Lydia - Ysidro being an Spanish lord of the Tudor era who is very concerned with appearances. Eventually, all roads lead to Istanbul, and we learn the reasons behind Ernchester's involvement with Karolyi, and what is really at stake in the worlds of vampires and Europe of the early twentieth century.<BR>This is a lush book, full of description. I can't speak for the accuracy of the period detail, and I do think Hambly overdoes it sometimes, but the book is certainly atmospheric. The pace lags somewhat after it leaves Vienna, and the goings-on amongst the vampires of Istanbul were rather hollow. I did find it a pity that the resolution of the Ernchester storyline came with such a let-down, followed by bloody melodrama. <BR>However, the characters are really what makes this story worth reading. Even those who appear only briefly are very well drawn;for example, Halliwell, the spy posted in Vienna, and the British ambassador's wife in Istanbul. There are also personal journeys for each of the three main characters: Asher, Lydia, and Ysidro. Asher finds himself caught up in a life he wanted to leave behind, recalling the terrible choices he made that led to him abandon his spying career. He has changed, but that makes the task ahead of him harder still. Lydia finds herself drawn to Ysidro, repellent though she finds his vampiric nature; and Ysidro is drawn to Lydia, despite knowing how she feels about him. The real end of this book only comes with the resolution of the situation between Ysidro, Lydia, and the jealous Margaret. Ysidro makes a hard choice that Asher applauds, recognising what Ysidro has done and why - because he once did the same thing himself. It is a moving end to the book.	2002-06-28
US	36242422	R2XZTHGR5VPFY6	0451456130	126816046	Grave Covenant: Twilight of the Clans II (Battletech, No. 34) (v. 2)	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Unbelievable	I've enjoyed other BattleTech novels that Michael A. Stackpole has written. And to be fair, for what this book is, he does a decent job of it. He writes smoothly, and is able to keep a consistency with other BattleTech novels that have gone before. Given how long the Twilight of the Clans series is, I think it was fair enough to have a lengthy political build-up which explains all that follows. Action is better in a context, and there's a lot more of it in later books for all the action fans out there. So why the two-star rating? The problem I had was with the ideas in this book, not their execution.<BR>1) Inner Sphere resources<BR>In early BattleTech books, e.g. Decision at Thunder Rift, technology was rare, precious, and mysterious. Lostech was highly sought after. Production of new technology, or even continuing production of the old, was difficult. Yet now the Inner Sphere can produce as much as it likes of practically anything it likes. Technological resources are no longer scarce. The Inner Sphere has enough resources, of all kinds, to take on the Clans in Clan space.  The undoing of this original premise of BattleTech at all, let alone in such a short time, is unbelievable.<BR>2) Inner Sphere politics<BR>Why, after all their animosity, would the Inner Sphere states be so quick to ally with each other and reform the Star League? This is another thing that happens too quickly.<BR>3) Personal politics<BR>Yes, we know the Inner Sphere is ruled by feudal lords. But do they have to be so completely unconcerned by the fate or wishes of their own people? All decisions are made by small cliques of characters who deal with each other because of personal friendships, rather than for political or economic reasons. If we must have the technological renaissance, why not a political and social renaissance as well?<BR>4) Victor Steiner-Davion and the boys' club<BR>I'm sick of Victor. Whatever he does, he is always wonderful. He can neglect his duties as a ruler while he is off trying to play the hero, the people on the planets he nominally rules can suffer any number of atrocities because of that neglect, he can lose as many battles as he likes, and every BattleTech author still treats him as a messiah figure. Why? And to top it all off, Victor's friends form a cosy clique of worthy rulers, on the basis of their ability to fight in a Mech and be friends with him. Meanwhile, Katrina, who has twice the talent and intelligence of her brother (he himself admitted that she is a much better ruler than he is), must be evil at every turn; while Omi, who would never aspire to rulership of any kind, is wonderful. I could almost believe that in this new incarnation of BattleTech, the editors have a problem with women in positions of power . . .<BR>5) Genocide<BR>Proposing to kill off anyone on the basis of their membership of a particular ethnic group is genocide. Proposing to wipe out Clan Smoke Jaguar is genocide. I still find it hard to believe that the editors of this series cannot see how morally flawed their books are becoming. But I forgot, Victor proposed the destruction of the Smoking Jags . . . so it must be okay.<BR>I used to really like the set-up of BattleTech. This book was the beginning of the end for me.	2002-06-27
US	36242422	R1OSOA2OLT4J7G	0553578790	754763007	Vision of the Future (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn, Book 2)	Books	1	4	12	N	N	Publishers to blame?	I was extremely disappointed in Specter of the Past and Vision of the Future. Timothy Zahn has proven in the past that he can write very much better than this; why was this book so bad? <BR>The multiple plots were unoriginal, pointless, and did not lead anywhere. Threats to the New Republic? Marauding warlords? Smugglers lending a hand? Desperate secret missions? Sorry, we've seen all that before. There would only be an excuse for reprising so many of the concepts from the Heir to the Empire series if they were made fresh and meaningful again; and they weren't. <BR>I really could believe that Zahn only wrote Vision of the Future and its prequel out of contractual obligations. It's like a book written by a committee: \\"you must produce two books of this many pages including this list of characters that will have these plot features, include this momentous event, and end on this note.\\" The book was too long. The writing style was definitely sub-par by Zahn's standards. There was little sense of excitment. I could believe that he, too, was unimpressed by his own output. And the resolution between Luke and Mara simply did not fit with anything that had gone before.<BR>Vision of the Future is not an accomplished, or even enjoyable, addition to the Star Wars book list. If you think I've been overly harsh in giving this book only one star, maybe you're correct. But when placed in the balance beside Zahn's talent and the expectations this book raised - I'm not feeling generous.	2002-06-26
US	36242422	RO5A8F6YO4EM5	0804112967	772620092	The Shadow	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly good	I'm rarely a fan of movie/TV novelisations. They promise so much, and almost always deliver so little. The Shadow was a pleasant surprise, then - because not only does Luceno provide a faithful rendering of what was actually in The Shadow film, he's produced a book that's a good read in its own right.<BR>For those who don't know the story, the Shadow is a crimefighter in 1930s/1940s New York. He hides behind the role of millionaire playboy, but secretly uses his power to \\"cloud men's minds\\" - mainly twisting people's perceptions to render himself invisible - and his network of informants and helpers to bring evildoers to justice. He was around long before Batman, in case you were wondering. Unlike Batman, though, the Shadow is not a nice person. He likes hurting people. It's just that now, after his rehabilitation in a monastery in Tibet, he has a good aim in mind when doing so. The film relates the story of what happens when Shiwan Khan, the last descendant of Genghis Khan, arrives in New York bent on world domination - with the Shadow's help. The Shadow, with the help of the pushy but charming Margot Lane, has to figure out the plot and save New York. But given the essential nastiness of his own nature, it's not just Shiwan Khan the Shadow may be fighting . . .<BR>Luceno reproduces the dialogue, settings, and characterisations from the film well. He credits those who worked on the film with letting him see the sets and costumes, so you know he's done his homework. But that's not the only homework Luceno has done. He's read lots of the original Shadow pulp fiction novels, and he works the knowledge he has gained from them into his own book without ever making it seem instrusive, or like he's showing off. This allows him to deepen the Shadow's character in a way you generally don't see in a movie novelisation.<BR>Luceno doesn't try to do anything fancy with this book. He retells the story of the film accurately and readably, and has a nice combination of fun and seriousness throughout. Like the film, it will never win any prizes. But I would almost read it in preference to watching the film - and that's something I've never said about any movie novelisation before.	2002-06-24
US	36242422	R44XLO6UVX3VZ	0756400414	388527482	The Complete Ivory (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good find	I found The Complete Ivory on a shelf in the bookshop, thought it looked good and bought it. I'm glad I did. The three novels in this book are all well-written, enjoyable stories with interesting characters.<br />In the first, The Gate of Ivory, we meet Theodora. She is a scholar from the planet of Athena, stranded on Ivory after being robbed one night. Ivory is a barbaric place compared to sedate and intellectual Athena, and is the only planet to have sorcerers - magic truly does exist there, despite the scepticism of offworlders. Desperate to make enough money to buy her passage home, the story opens with Theodora telling fortunes in the marketplace. She finds herself hired to &quot;read the cards&quot; of Ran Cormallen, a wealthy and powerful sorcerer . . . and becomes drawn into the internal struggles of the Cormallen family. Please don't think, from that description, that this is some sort of family saga in the slushy romance vein, because it's not. The focus is very squarely upon Theodora, and her reactions and adjustments to the strange new environment her association with Ran has brought her. When a shocking crisis strikes Ran, she finds a strength she did not know she had, and is instrumental in bringing an end to the difficulties plaguing her employer and his family.<br />Two-Bit Heroes and Guilt-Edged Ivory see Theodora on Ivory once again, getting caught up in more adventures with Ran - I don't want to give away any more of their storylines than that.<br />I did have a few quibbles with these books. Magic is never explained to my satisfaction, though Egan may have kept it so low-key deliberately - it is a feature of the plots, but far from being the be-all and end-all of her stories. I would have preferred some more depth to the stories too, both in terms of the setting (a map would have helped), and in the emotional power of some of her scenes. But these are just quibbles. Egan writes imaginative, lively stories populated by quirky and engaging characters who truly are affected by what goes on around them - and Theodora, who narrates the books, is refreshingly individual.<br />Well worth reading.truly are affected by what goes on around them - and Theodora, who narrates the books, is refreshingly individual.<BR>Well worth reading.	2002-06-20
US	36242422	RBKWCF2454SHG	0812539052	42197739	Exodus From The Long Sun (Book of the Long Sun)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Huh?	I loved the first three installments of The Book of the Long Sun. But this . . . I could not believe it was supposed to be a part of the same series. And worse than that, it was of very poor quality. Nothing was resolved or explained, and the plot took a ninety-degree turn that was jarring in the extreme. I personally prefer to excise this book from my memory and pretend that the series was never finished.	2002-06-16
US	36242422	R2FVPC15MV148K	0061011975	774562648	Bundori	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Hackneyed	I have to say that I was disappointed in this book after reading all the wonderful reviews the publisher reprinted inside my copy. It just did not match up to all the praise heaped upon it.<br />The plot was unimaginative, and the characters stereotyped. Despite the way the other characters praised him, Sano's supposed drive for justice did not shine through, and there were times when he seemed downright thick. Or maybe we've all read too many detective novels by now . . . But I am pretty sure his habit of explaining what he has discovered in his investigation to everyone he happens to meet is not a good thing to do. And I could not believe that he and Aoi loved each other. Like so many things in this book, that just came out of nowhere, and then disappeared again. And do we foresee trouble on the horizon when Sano is caught between Reiko and Aoi? Yawn.<br />I did enjoy the setting, because it was so different to anything I have read about before; though I'm unclear about whether some aspects, such as the ninja, should be taken with a grain of salt. A historical note at the end would have been much appreciated. My enjoyment of the setting was undercut, though, by Rowland's over-explanation of every single point that today's audience might be expected to have a little difficulty with. Just letting the action and conversations flow and keeping the explanations to a minimum would have been a far more effective way to evoke the period. I do understand that warts-and-all evocation of times gone by would result in characters a modern audience would find it difficult to sympathise with, but I sometimes thought Rowland went a little too far in her appeal to a modern sensibility - e.g. the doctor's attitudes, Sano's immediate acceptance of and respect for Aoi's intellect, his questioning of Bushido at the end.<br />I'm not sure if I will read any more of Rowland's books. I'm tempted to, because of the setting and because I like to give authors another chance. However, the sexual nastiness in Bundori was gratuitous and offensive, and I'm not sure I could take any more of it. Quite apart from that, how can we respect an investigator who supposedly has a drive for justice yet tries to rape a woman just because he's angry with her?astiness in Bundori was gratuitous and offensive, and I'm not sure I could take any more of it. Quite apart from that, how can we respect an investigator who supposedly has a drive for justice yet tries to rape a woman just because he's angry with her?	2002-06-14
US	36242422	R1K2JFPB8C87W	0446608858	679570720	Vengeance of Dragons (The Secret Texts Book 2)	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Let down	I was really disappointed in this book after reading Diplomacy of Wolves. I still like the world, many of the concepts, and the basics of the plot. However, I'm still finding it very difficult to like any of the characters beyond Ian and Kait's uncle. Kait herself is no more likeable than before, and as for Danya . . . Are we supposed to excuse her actions because of the way she's been hurt, or are we supposed to think her evil anyway because she was one of the Galweigh Wolves? <BR>The Kait and Ry storyline, meant to be so significant for both characters, was at first contrived (She has to share his cabin because he came to rescue her? Would we like to create some artificial sexual tension here?) and then nowhere near as deep or moving as it should have been. Another problem I had with the writing was that there weren't many clues as to how much time had passed, and it sometimes seemed as if the story was missing big chunks. And the resemblance between Solander and a certain religion in our own world did annoy me somewhat.<BR>I just found that the whole story was too easy, somehow. The Dragons waltz in and transform things with their magic, and then lapse into a life of self-indulgence. It seemed almost embarrassingly easy for Kait and Ry to work their banishment charm tricks on them. And yes, Vengeance of Dragons finishes on a hell of a cliffhanger - but I'm pretty sure I already know what the ultimate ending will be, Luercas or no Luercas. <BR>My hope is that this book is the weak point in the trilogy, and that Courage of Falcons will be as good as Diplomacy of Wolves, if not better. I am still interested enough to want to find out what happens.	2002-06-14
US	36242422	RAIBUWVXHBNNO	0441007090	33168902	Lady in Gil	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Refreshingly different	An ordinary person thrust into the role of hero is a fantasy standard these days. But Lady in Gil stands out because of the originality of its plot and the depth Rebecca Bradley brings to her characters.<BR>Tigrallef is one of the Scions of Oballef, one of the hereditary rulers of the island of Gil. When Gil was invaded by the Sherank, the magical artefact that guaranteed their power, the Lady in Gil, was lost and most of the Scions were slaughtered. Seventy years later, Gil is a hellhole under the brutal rule of the Sherank, and the Scions are well and truly under the control of the Flamens, the priesthood of the Lady in Gil. Every so often, the Flamens send a Scion off to Gil to try to find the Lady so that they can all return in triumph to Gil and reclaim their lost power. But now, the bookish Tig, who was so unpromising a heroic prospect that no-one ever bothered to train him, is the only Scion available for the latest mission.<BR>Tig might not be a hero of the type the Flamens wanted, but he is well educated and has a very sharp mind. So when he arrives in Gil and realises how woefully underprepared he really is, he is more disillusioned with the Flamens and the Heroic Code than ever, and decides to do things his way. And then he meets some unexpected allies . . .<BR>Bradley does an excellent job of bringing the clever, but oddly innocent Tig to life, and showing how he grows into the role of a hero without ever losing the qualities that made him so unique and likeable in the first place. Lady in Gil is very much a character-driven story, with the choices Bradley's characters make the source of the action and pathos in the story. It's certainly not just another find-the-artefact-and-save-the-world story. Supporting characters such as Calla and Hawelli, Shree and Lissula, are very well drawn too, and highlight the different responses people can make to the tragedies in their lives.<BR>Does Tig succeed in his quest? Well, sort of . . . I was stunned by the ending- and then very glad to find that there was a sequel. Read this book. It's definitely a cut above the rest.	2002-06-13
US	36242422	R1V3B48QF41JVT	0786906987	541276945	Tangled Webs (Forgotten Realms: Starlight and Shadows, Book 2)	Books	1	8	15	N	N	Overloaded and ridiculous	Despite its flaws, I did find Daughter of the Drow interesting enough to read the sequel. What did I find? A typical Elaine Cunningham book - and that is not a compliment. Tangled Webs is way over the top. Yet again, there was far too much going on, and the plot was just silly.<BR>Liriel and Fyodor go on the next stage of their joint quest. He is seeking a way to control his berserker rages, she a way to keep her drow magic on the surface, and both of them need to use the Windwalker amulet to do so. That's fine, as far as it goes. But Cunningham cannot resist the temptation to let her heroes fall into a many-layered plot (yawn) with significant repercussions for the Forgotten Realms (again) that only the heroes can bring to a successful resolution (naturally). Along the way, we get pointless cameos (Caladorn, the doppleganger), the return of old foes (Shakti - going nowhere, as usual), and way too many villains (monstrous and otherwise). I would have much preferred a quieter, less \\"significant\\" tale that really focused upon the characters of Liriel and Fyodor and their relationship with each other - I do believe that Cunningham has the talent to pull it off. This story was overloaded with action and with too many characters and plot elements, and it all added up to very little in the end.<BR>Fyodor is not a bad character, though he's given little to do except admire Liriel or worry about her. The whole \\"those who think, and those who dream\\" thing is becoming a bit tired, too. Liriel is a real problem. Cunningham just cannot allow her to be limited in any way. She's beautiful, noble, rich, charming, miraculously able to win everyone's trust despite the fact that she's a drow. The way drow are (rightly) demonised elsewhere, I found it hard to believe that she could gain such acceptance at all, let alone so quickly. And her magical powers are way over the top, considering her age and the training she has had access to. Why is it that she can learn and cast any spell, no matter how high its level, whenever she pleases - often from a single reading? Why should she expect to keep her drow magic at all? Why is it that she can wield considerable clerical powers, despite her ambivalence about Lloth and her own lack of clerical training and commitment? The way Cunningham excuses her characters from having to conform to the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons rules is extremely irritating. Weis and Hickman stuck to the rules in classic Dragonlance, so why can't Cunningham? (Another little thing that grated - the cleric of an evil goddess would command the undead, not turn them) And the issue of whether Liriel is good but misguided, or neutral and wavering, is never made clear enough for my liking. In this, as in everything else, Cunningham allows Liriel to get away with too much.<BR>None of the other characters in Tangled Webs made me care about them; in fact, the Ruathym were unpleasant, and I even found myself somewhat in sympathy with the evil twin sister. The final battle was too chaotic. And as for the scene where Liriel carves her rune - was the sex really necessary? And what was the rune, and where did it come from?<BR>If you want a  great deal of intricate action and plot and aren't concerned by depth, then fine, you might enjoy Tangled Webs. Cunningham certainly has a good flow to her writing. But if you want anything more than that, this is not the book for you.<BR>By the way, when will someone portray drow the way they actually look on book covers?	2002-06-13
US	36242422	R1RDKUE1IT5W2H	0446607460	942586499	Diplomacy of Wolves (Secret Texts)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Excellent start to a series	First books of a trilogy can be a problem, because they are not always self-contained stories. Diplomacy of Wolves is definitely just the first installment of a story spread over three books. But did it inspire me to want to continue reading the series? Yes, it did. The premise of the fanstasy world is very different to other books I've read - a planet polluted by magical fallout, with a severe divide between the mutated and non-mutated, on the verge of an era on re-exploration and re-discovery. Mysterious artefacts and long-lost cities always drag me in, though the map was definitely sub-standard in its reproduction. I enjoyed the novelty of the setting, which was tropical for once, and the technological level, which made this book stand out from the usual medieval-Europe-inspired fanstasy novel. The magic system was unusual and satisfying - too often, magic comes without responsibility or cost in fiction. The story was a good one, with a nice combination of action, intrigue, and the characters' thoughts and feelings. There were even some mysterious villains. When it ended, Diplomacy of Wolves was definitely heading in an interesting direction.<BR>However, I did have some problems with this book. I just did not find Kait an engaging or appealing character. She seemed incredibly naive in many ways, and not a nice person otherwise. Determined, yes; nice, no. And the fact that she is both beautiful AND sexually irresistable because of her Karnee nature was over the top. In fact, none of the characters, with the exception of Ian Draclas and Kait's uncle, were nice people or characters worth caring about. I would also have liked to have it brought home more strongly, particularly to Kait herself, that Kait's family, at all branches and all levels, are probably just as bad as the Sabirs - and stupid to boot. That ambush, for example . . . very, very dumb of them. There was too much grossness and brutality in the story for my liking - yes, I'm squeamish, but too much nastiness finds its way into fiction these days under the guise of \\"realism\\".<BR>But these are points on which other readers may very well disagree. For me, they did detract from this book - but I still looked forward eagerly to the sequel.	2002-06-13
US	36242422	R3UZ93A20IDQVC	0553561189	785845634	Mistress of the Empire (Empire Trilogy, Bk. 3)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Gripping read, but . . .	This book brings to an end the saga of Mara of the Acoma, and her political rise through the Empire of Tsuranuanni. It begins with a tragedy that leads a grief-stricken Mara to realise that she has a new enemy, the awesomely powerful Assembly of Magicians. The story follows Mara through a new series of plots, near-death encounters, revelations, and personal struggles as she once more fights to protect her loved ones and family honour.<BR>Mistress of the Empire is as well-written as its two prequels, and as the tension mounted towards the end, I couldn't put it down. Yet the book did leave a sour taste in the mouth, and that is because Mara ends up with everything. Yes, we know she's lost many people she loved. Yes, we know she's suffered greatly. But at the end of the book she has more power and wealth than ever, the literal protection of the gods, and the love of her life returned. Some balance on this score would have been preferable. In contrast to the other books, it didn't seem to me that Mara really learnt anything in this book, either - it's hard to believe that she's acting for anyone other than herself, no matter how moving her struggles can be. Her supposed concern for the underprivileged just doesn't seem to shine through in this book.<BR>The Assembly of Magicians was an unsatisfactory enemy; its portrayal in other books seemed at variance with its portrayal here, and I did wonder how well the concept had been thought out. And it certainly gave up far too easily in the end. The priests, too, were problematic. They never seemed to care about the cruelty in the empire before, so why start now? There was too much plot contrivance of this sort, and it did undermine Mistress of the Empire. Other annoying contrivances that furthered specific plot ends were the poisoning, the divorce of Hokanu, and the death of Ayaki.<BR>The book was also let down by its ending. The showdown before the emperor's throne was silly, with all its stops and starts, the constant raising of the stakes, and its contrived resolution. And as for the epilogue, that read like wish fulfilment on the part of the authors, rather than being consistent with what had gone before - sorry, I just don't believe that social change would have come that fast. Feist and Wurts have perhaps caught a disease that is unfortunately becoming more common amongst fantasy authors: total control of their imaginary world from creation to destruction, with nothing left unresolved and nothing left for anyone else to play with, even readers.<BR>Yet it was nice to see in this book how much came about through the actions of characters other than Mara, particularly Arakasi and Lujan. The change in Arakasi (always my favourite character) was especially welcome and well done.<BR>If you liked Daughter of the Empire and Servant of the Empire, you'll no doubt enjoy this, too. It's not as good as Servant of the Empire, but it's still a fun read. You might find it best not to think on it too deeply, though.	2002-06-12
US	36242422	R37FPWA8IVKEFF	0441008925	517711274	Echoes of Earth	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Potential, but not up to the standard of Evergence - yet	I bought Echoes of Earth on the strength of the Evergence series. Based on William's and Dix's previous work, I was somewhat disappointed by this book. A lot of science-fiction falls into the trap of being about ideas and science, and forgetting the vital elements of plot and character. I was certainly intrigued by the plot of Echoes of Earth - humanity (if you want to call it that) discovers alien intelligence and then discovers very quickly that being contacted by the unknown can have catastrophic results - but character is where this book fell down, for me. The Evergence Trilogy had interesting and likeable characters such as Morgan Roche, Uri Kajic, et al.; but Peter Alander and Caryl have so far failed to appeal to me in the same way. Caryl, in particular, (the \\"real\\" one, that is) is downright unpleasant so far. The tone of the book is somewhat flat. For example, the way Peter misses Lucia and the \\"death\\" of Cleo Samson should have engaged the emotions and had more impact than they did. I like a sense of wonder in my science-fiction, not the feeling that this is all ho-hum. It did seem to me that Williams and Dix skated over all the technological marvels they wrote about, especially in Sol system, rather than emphasising how astonishing it was. Some of the action in Sol system was pretty hard to understand, too. Without citing particular references, Echoes of Earth is somewhat derivative on a number of its plot points. That was true of Evergence as well, but the authors specifically acknowledged that, and it's not something I mind in the slightest if what you do with your borrowing is fresh enough. But it wasn't fresh enough in Echoes of Earth.<BR>Will I read the sequels to this book? I will - because on the authors' past performance, I can hope that the Orphans of Earth series will get better, and I'm certainly interested enough to want to know what happens next. There were signs of some potential improvement at the very end. But more appealing characters anda greater sense of excitment and wonder would certainly improve things.	2002-06-11
US	36242422	R36F4GYN1D7HGF	0380789132	599210818	An Exchange of Hostages	Books	1	3	18	N	N	Gross	I couldn't finish this book, and I threw it out rather than take the chance that anyone else would come across it by mistake. Matthews has some writing talent, true; but I can't really care about that when I weigh it against the actual plot of her book. An exploration of the soul of a torturer? That's just disgusting. I didn't need to read the details of how people are tortured. I didn't need to read about the sexual grossness I should have expected, once I realised what sort of book this was. And in the 50-60% of this book I read before I threw it away, Matthews never once explained or justified why justice equals torture in her imaginary universe. So yes, my poor opinion of this book is based more on my distaste for its plot rather than its literary merits, or lack of them. But I did not feel that the synopsis gave me anything like enough warning about what I was letting myself in for with this book, and I would not like other readers to make the same mistake I did and read it without realising what it's really about. This book was just gross.	2002-06-10
US	36242422	R1TOWSXAKIOJTS	0786913428	456593771	The Dream Spheres (Forgotten Realms: Songs and Swords, Book 5)	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Time to stop	When reading Elaine Cunningham's books, I'm always troubled by the nagging feeling that her plots make no sense. With The Dream Spheres, I had no doubt: this book makes no sense at all.<BR>The plot is constantly turned in new directions by the introduction of yet another new character or element, and Cunningham so overloads the plot this time that it becomes nothing but an illogical mess. What was this book supposed to be about? The dream spheres? Lily? The absurdly powerful Isabeau Thione? Danilo's family difficulties? Elaith Craulnober? The secrets of Waterdeep's noble families? Bronwyn and Ebenezer? Danilo and Arilyn's romance?<BR>Cunningham really needs to learn that less is more. Throwing in everything you possibly can for the sake of trying to appeal to everyone and playing with your pet characters one more time does not make a strong or well-written story. The continual references in The Dream Spheres to other events that the reader was apparently supposed to know about were highly irritating, and another symptom of bad story-telling. I've read everything by Cunningham on this thread except for Thornhold and the odd short story, and I still found myself lost.<BR>Cunningham clearly shows in The Dream Spheres that she has nothing new to say about her favourite characters. Danilo has his good points, but Arilyn is as dour, bigoted, and boringly invincible as ever. Their story has essentially gone nowhere in all the time that Cunningham has been writing about them. And as for the way she wrecked Elaith in this book (a tortured soul tormented by doubts about his moral character, who puts Arilyn, of all people, on a pedestal), the less said, the better.<BR>Cunningham needs discipline, a stricter editor, and some new ideas. The Magehound shows that she is only partway there.	2002-06-07
US	36242422	RW532TFX3QOKU	0061020052	257629486	Infinity Beach	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Compelling reading	Jack McDevitt's books are as much mystery as science-fiction, and this time, the mystery is a doozy. Is humanity really alone in the universe? If it isn't - where are the aliens?<BR>Infinity Beach follows the quest of Kim Brandywine to discover the truth about her clone-sister Emily's disappearance. Uncovering all sorts of clues and attracting all sorts of danger once she begins, Kim comes to realise that Emily's disappearance is connected to a devastating secret. That secret links mysterious events on her home planet Greenway and a mission sent out in search of aliens twenty-odd years ago.<BR>One of the things I like best about McDevitt's books is how real his characters are. You may cringe at the way they behave, but you know that's exactly how people can be. Shocking things happen, but McDevitt does not dwell on them gratuitously, and there is always a satisfactory resolution, with all loose threads tied up.<BR>Infinity Beach has all these elements, plus some exciting action sequences and McDevitt's usual imaginative plotting. It was definitely compelling reading. The one complaint I have is something picked up by other reviewers: that Kim's motivation for engaging in actions so radically out of character is never really made clear. But it was a minor flaw in an otherwise wonderful book.	2002-06-07
US	36242422	RNAEL74HPRK92	0553575635	333696092	Ship of Magic (The Liveship Traders, Book 1)	Books	2	4	16	N	N	Avoid	I'd never read any of Robin Hobb's books before, so I did not know what to expect. On the basis of this, I never plan to read any more. I hated this horrible book, and sold it off as soon as I could. I gave it two stars instead of one because Hobb does have some imagination and writing talent. But her book is full of stupid, unpleasant people doing stupid, unpleasant things to each other for stupid, unpleasant reasons. And as for the storyline involving Malta - Yuck! This girl is fourteen, and Hobb is female herself! Where the story can go from here I cannot tell and do not care. Avoid.	2002-06-06
US	36242422	R2Z8NPFRRVM765	0441009425	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Overrated	I was attracted to this book because the synopsis promised something like Jack McDevitt's books, a science-fiction archaeological mystery that resonates into the present day. And that is what Reynolds provides - but his tale has none of the depth or humanity that characterises McDevitt's stories. I kept waiting for this story to add up to something, but it never did. It was a meaningless parade of events related in a flat style of writing. Reynolds has imagination, true; but that imagination is limited to settings and a few plot points, and does not extend to characters or any fresh insights. His lack of skill in bringing his characters to life is the worst aspect of this book. They are cardboard cutouts completely lacking in depth, mere fronts for the next plot twist. And Sylveste, the main character, is so devoid of life, his actions so inexplicable, that one cannot understand why he was so important or caused so much upheaval.<BR>If this is Reynolds' first book, he does have some good foundations to build upon - but there's a long way to go. The destination was meaningless and the journey unpleasant. Overrated.	2002-06-06
US	36242422	R1GGWP3Y0LQ1N7	0671684027	189607609	Metamorphosis ((The First Giant Novel) (Star Trek:The Next Generation))	Books	2	7	9	N	N	It had to happen sometime . . .	Jean Lorrah's book explores an issue that the Star Trek: The Next Generation TV series never tackled: what would it be like for Data to get his wish of understanding what it is to be human? <BR>Metamorphosis is reasonably well-written, at least for a Star Trek novel - the problems lie in plot and character. <BR>Essentially, Data stumbles into a &quot;quest to the gods&quot; while on an away mission to the planet Elysia, and when he successfully completes his quest he is given (without specifically asking for it) humanity - flesh, blood, and all. The book then deals with Data's experience of his new humanity, and the unexpectedly serious problems that result from his transformation.<BR>The plot is quite enjoyable, but too contrived. That the existence of a single android in a single place and time should be of such vital signficance, and that the Elysian &quot;gods&quot; should demonstrate this to Data by showing him what would result if he was human and then wiping that knowledge from his memory, all seems a little silly in the end - since Data cannot even be said to have learnt anything from the experience. (After multiple re-readings, I'm still not sure exactly what happened in the scene where Data is changed back, I have to say) The love story angle with Thelia was also contrived and pointless. Yet Lorrah, to her credit, did try to bring some deeper themes to the book, and her take on a horrible Prime Directive dilemma was well done.<BR>I've never felt that Lorrah does a good job of bringing Data to life in either of her books that I've read, and he even seems quite at variance with his portrayal by Brent Spiner. It's more like she turns the character into what she wants him to be, rather than using the character as he is. Her depictions of the other characters from the TV series are more on the mark, though.<BR>Lorrah reintroduces, rather gratuitously, a number of her characters from Survivors, namely Darryl Adin and his crew. While Adin, an interesting character himself, interacts well with Data in some useful scenes, the book could have done without him and the tired re-exploration of the whole Tasha Yar business.<BR>I had two major issues with this story. One is not entirely Lorrah's fault, but it was intensely annoying all the same. Because the TV series had only had a few seasons when this was published and showed no signs of ending, Metamorphosis could not allow anything sigificant to happen to the characters. But changing Data's experience as a human to &quot;it was only a dream&quot; (or in this case, &quot;it was only one out of many lines of probability&quot;) is an awful plot device that I was warned off using in high school. The other major flaw to this book was that Lorrah seemed to believe that exploring Data's new humanity meant only the physical experience of being human. Since he got emotions along with his humanity, it was astonishing that Lorrah did not explore this aspect at all.<BR>Yes, Metamorphosis was quite an entertaining read. But I think that people tend to expect far too little of Star Trek novels. I wanted this to be better, and it could have been better.	2002-06-03
US	36242422	R1DH1WRK9HOS9A	0553099744	469367834	Darksaber (Star Wars)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Terrible	Anderson treads a well-worn path here, with yet another superweapon that must be destroyed. Can no-one think of a more original plot? This novel descends into farce, with the Darksaber project undone by Durga the Hutt's cheapskate mentality, Bevel Lemelisk's gratuitous recollections of his previous executions, and the Darksaber finally being destroyed by accident without ever firing a shot. What was the point? If this book was supposed to be comic, it fell very flat indeed.<BR>Anderson unfortunately cannot resist the temptation to populate the story with the characters and settings from his Jedi Academy Trilogy. They are no more interesting, or better drawn, than they were in those books. The same poor plotting, bad writing, and cringe-worthy dialogue also make the transition (\\"We're the Champions of the Force!\\"). How Anderson ever got a book contract is beyond me.<BR>Many other features of this book grated. Anderson's continual references to the movies and previous books sit so awkwardly in the dialogue and the characters' thoughts that they come across as a deliberate attempt to show off the fact that he's done his homework. Crix Madine's appearance is absolutely pointless. His character is so lacking in depth and does so little that his death had no impact. It could have been another character altogether - no-one would have noticed the difference. The sequence on the surface of Hoth was embarrassingly bad, and nothing more than meaningless filler. Would the supposedly-progressive New Republic really execute Lemelisk, as threatened by Wedge? Why can all the trainees on Yavin be referred to as jedi knights, even though (with the exception of Kyp and Dorsk 81) they are obviously still in training? Callista's abrupt character change in this book is jarring, compared to her personality in Children of the Jedi. And why has Callista got it in for Daala? That is a feature of the story that makes no sense whatsoever. Another thing that makes no sense is how one person isable to cripple a Super Star Destroyer.<BR>And Daala? Ah yes, Daala . . .<BR>I've never been able to decide whether Anderson truly intends us to believe that Daala is a military genius whom prejudice and circumstances have always conspired against, or whether he has always meant us to think that she is, as she herself comes to realise at the end of Darksaber, an incompetent with an over-inflated sense of her own abilities and significance. If it is the former, this is a serious indictment of Anderson's writing abilities. Whatever the answer, it's not difficult to believe that Grand Moff Tarkin whisked her off to command the Maw Installation because he could thereby keep her out of the mainstream of the Fleet, and her total lack of command experience would barely matter in an installation that was pratically impregnable anyway. And the idea that Pellaeon would be frightened of her, after all he's been through, is ludicrous.<BR>Darksaber is embarrassingly bad. You will miss nothing by not reading it.	2002-05-31
US	36242422	ROTDLPKJO9IBW	0671882678	278535678	Descent (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Watch the TV episode instead	Reading novelisations of films or TV episodes can be very satisfying, as the storyline and the characters are given added depth by the extra information that cannot be conveyed visually or within tight time constraints. So I was looking forward to this novelisation about Data's experience of emotion and his unfortunate rediscovery of his brother Lore.<BR>But this book sets a new low standard for Star Trek: The Next Generation novels, at least in my experience. To give her some (limited) credit, Diane Carey tries to deepen this tale beyond a repeat of the script and descriptions of the sets. But she simply lacks the skill, let alone the talent, to do so with any success. Heavy use of a thesaurus and a scattering of awkward, or simply weird, similes, are not a substitute for writing ability. The characters are not brought to life in any recognisable way, and the tone of the whole book is simply off. I continually found myself being surprised by the way the author used/misused the English language. Carey cannot be held responsible, though, for the way the story degenerates in the second half of the book, as Hugh reappears, Lore reveals himself to be a messiah-figure to the Borg, and way too much time is devoted to Dr Crusher's experience of commanding the Enterprise.<BR>On a related note, two things about the storyline really bothered me. First, that Dr Crusher was placed in command of the Enterprise at all is bad enough; that she is never punished for her selfish refusal to obey Captain Picard's orders to go and get help beggars belief. Second, Data executes Lore. Why is it that Lore is never awarded the same rights and considerations as Data? Why can he be switched off permanently because it seems convenient to do so? Why are the consequences of this act to Data never addressed? We have to assume he feels no guilt at all over what he has done.<BR>In the hands of another author, this could have been a very good tale to bring to life as a book. Unfortunately, Carey wasa poor choice. Watch the TV episode instead.	2002-05-31
US	36242422	R2PFYXGSFWLRIQ	0441008712	428996947	Lady Pain	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A satisfying conclusion	I really enjoyed this book. Bradley's characters are engaging, and the story moves along at a good pace. The imaginative setting is brought to life with economy and liveliness. Set twenty years after Scion's Lady, Tigrallef, accompanied by his family and friends, is still wandering the world, seeking a way to banish the Harashil. Facing a dead end in their quest, they travel to Gil, Tig's ancestral home - and doing so sets off a series of unforeseen and deadly dangerous events.<BR>I did wish more time could have been devoted to Shree, Calla, and Chasco in this book, but I certainly did not feel short-changed by the new characters that appeared: Mallinna the beautiful memorian, Jonno the poetry-writing guardsman, and Tig's daughter Katla. The story is narrated by Vero, Tig's son, and Bradley conveys his devotion to duty, his growing despair, and his wish for something new in his life wonderfully. It was also good to see Tig's combination of intelligence and innocent stupidity through another's eyes.<BR>What is particularly good about this book is that Bradley clearly worked out the whole story before she even wrote Lady in Gil. There is no sense that this book was written out of laziness or obligation, like so many fantasy series. It forms a coherent whole with the previous two books, and the ending is both appropriate, given all that has gone before, and satisfying. Lady Pain is a fascinating and truly enjoyable book. Make sure you read Bradley's previous books first so you appreciate it to the full.	2002-05-31
US	36242422	R39AJQCGPSMSOH	0553572938	114540105	Children of the Jedi (Star Wars)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Atmospheric, but too complicated	In many ways, Children of the Jedi was an enjoyable read. Leia and Han's storyline on Belsavis was imaginative and quite well done. What I particularly liked was the atmospheric evocation of Belsavis, particularly in the old Jedi stronghold, and Leia's reexamination of her own past and assumptions. All the little touches about her aunts, jewellery styles, smashball, etc., brought the StarWars universe a bit more depth than it usually has. Early mentions of certain things in passing did come to be important later, and the alliance between wealthy aristocrats who want the Government to leave them alone and Force-using, power-hungry, social climbers was plausible and well-drawn. However, Hambly once again let things get too complicated. There were too many plot elements in the Leia/Han storyline, and the ending was unsatisfying, verging on silly. And then there's the other storyline . . .<BR>Luke's storyline could have been left out altogether, and doing so would probably have made Children of the Jedi a better book. The Eye of Palpatine (yes, another superweapon - why didn't the emperor plan to send in a hitsquad of his darkside adepts instead?) gradually falling apart as all the aliens mistakenly loaded onto it revert to type, the Will, all the various behaviours of those shanghaied aliens, Luke's aching leg . . . it became confusing, and then annoyingly repetitive. And the final destruction of the Eye of Palpatine just indicates the end of another incident that leaves no mark on the StarWars universe.<BR>What would have been worth exploring was the Cray/Nichos element. Cray's science-can-solve-all attitude and then her growing disillusionment as she realises that Nichos is no longer what she wants him to be was really quite touching, and deserved a lot more space. But I suspect that Hambly only invented them to give Callista a morally acceptable way to escape the Eye of Palpatine's destruction and to highlight another issue she added, but never really engaged with -the nature of artificial intelligence (Nichos, Irek, the Will, etc.)<BR>And as for Callista herself? I actually liked her, and was glad when she reincarnated to be with Luke, albeit without her ability to use the Force. Why Anderson and Hambly subsequently changed what had been wisdom, courage, and fatalism to whining selfishness is beyond me.<BR>So overall, Children of the Jedi had its moments. But it was too complicated, tried to do too much, and suffered accordingly.	2002-05-30
US	36242422	RCT7WH3BR5NH5	0553575171	145330012	Planet of Twilight (Star Wars)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Too indulgent	This book was a disappointment. Children of the Jedi had its faults, true, but this book had them all magnified. Too many plot elements, a story that never went anywhere, an overemphasis on description to the detriment of character and plot . . . And I just felt, like many others,that Barbara Hambly did not bring the characters to life. Hambly seems to feel that the journey is more important than the destination, but I cannot agree. In the end, all the drochs, sentient crystals, Newcomer/Oldtimer conflicts, renegade pseudo-jedi, evil corporations, imperial plots, robot fleets, droid escapades, and searches for various missing loved ones added up to nothing. The story was wrapped up far too quickly, and ultimately had no impact or repercussions.<BR>Three pet peeves to conclude this review:<BR>1) The Daala/Liegeus element was unforgiveable<BR>2) What meaning do words like \\"antediluvian\\" and \\"Rabelaisian\\" have in the StarWars universe?<BR>3) What right does Callista have to expect to have it all? Isn't a new lease on life enough for her? Perhaps the Force is trying to tell her something?	2002-05-30
US	36242422	R1AQL7DL83MVKE	185798594X	762174729	Dawnthief: Book One: Chronicles of the Raven	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Good start, but disappointing	This book begins well, and James Barclay had a very interesting premise for his tale of The Raven. In the end, though, the book was disappointing for a number of reasons. Though the setting shows promise (perhaps to be realised in his other books?), some aspects, such as the nature of magic, could have been better delineated. Many of the depictions of military activities in the book would have benefited from a dose of military knowledge, or at least commonsense; at times, the characters' actions just seem silly. The treatment of the female characters is gratuitous, disturbing, and thoroughly offensive. But the biggest problem is Barclay's writing skills. We have to be told, as readers, how strong the links between the characters are and how much The Raven means to them; we do not see it develop. Thus, Denser's switching of loyalties at the end is flat and unconvincing. I was hoping for much better from this book, for the idea of a champion mercenary unit finding itself caught up in more than it had bargained for was an idea I found intriguing. Hopefully, Barclay does better in the sequels to this book - but I won't be reading them to find out.	2002-05-28
