US	36302055	R1IDVWK46F9N7A	1592869971	206211888	Stages of a Woman: A Collection of Short Stories	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Stirring Collection	Stages of a Woman is a bold collection of seven short stories that weaves tales of women's pains, their hopes and dreams, their struggles, and their lives into a literary voice.  The collection is broken into three sections, &quot;Growing Up,&quot; &quot;Being Grown&quot; and &quot;Growing Old,&quot; and each section carries with it powerful, thought-provoking stories.<br />One of my favorite pieces in this collection is &quot;There was a Hole in My Bucket.&quot;  This story is told in four 'verses': The Cause, The Effect, The Truth, and The Healing, and travels through the life of Ava from the age of 6 to 30.  We hear a painful story, in the voice of Ava, of abuse, of how the abuse affected Ava's life, of how she overcame the abuse, and of how she learned to heal.  There are so many reasons why this is a great piece of writing, but the main thing that stuck out for me is Ava's voice as she advances in ages from 6 to 13, to 22, and finally, to 30.  Each verse shows a slightly more mature, more aware Ava that just enthralled me.<BR> <BR>Another strong piece is &quot;I'M PERFECTLY NORMAL&quot;, which is about a very OBSESSED-with-love woman who talks to the reader about how she became so obsessed with love and how if we sit and think about it, what made her &quot;crazy&quot; isn't that crazy; in fact, many of us have probably experienced the same thing.  I loved the voice of this piece because she's so erratic, she's so stuck inside of her self and her thoughts that the reader can't help but to believe she IS crazy, but then she will spit out wisdom that might make the reader ask, &quot;Don't I do that, too?&quot;<BR> <BR>It's appropriate that this collection ends with a story titled &quot;The End of a Journey.&quot;  It's a wonderful piece to end this collection on because as we travel through the stages of a woman's life, we come to this piece about Aries Jaye Jowell or Momma Jaye, a beloved grandmother, mother, and friend, who ends up giving the eulogy at her own funeral.<BR> <BR>So from her first breath...to her last, in this collection, the woman's voice is always the one to tell HER story.<BR> <BR>In the end, what this collection represents is an array of stories that celebrate the journey of life.  Caldwell does an excellent job in this collection with voice and with honing in on the pain and the triumphs of a woman's life.  I would definitely recommend this story to all women of all races.  It's a testament to how strong we can be despite the obstacles we face.<br />Shon Bacon	2004-06-09
US	36302055	R1VIDQSK0W4BH5	1583144870	630544914	Straight To The Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Sweet, Romantic Story (4.5 stars)	In Bettye Griffin's \\"Straight to the Heart,\\" a newly single Monique Oliver is pushing forty and looking to find out why she can't sustain a relationship.  Her \\"investigation\\" leads her to North Carolina, where she falls into the job of running a bed and breakfast for her uncle and dying aunt.  Used to be alone, Monique is stunned when men hit on her left and right--and yet the only man she wants attention from, Russell \\"Mac\\" McDonald, won't give her the time of day.<br />This is just the beginning of Griffin's novel, a work that I really enjoed reading.  It was quiet, in that sweet, good-natured way.  It focused on the relationship between Monique and Mac without using sex as its anchor, which is always a good thing.  Griffin also sets up nice subplots and allows the reader into the lives of the minor characters, who are as important to the story as Monique and Mac.<br />My only issue is that the story ended too abruptly, which threw me because I expected the novel to last at least another chapter or two.<br />Despite that, this is a book I would definitely recommend to those who love romance novels about real, mature relationships.<br />Shon Bacon	2004-04-21
US	36302055	R1X4HSKLKB0I9N	0595233775	52955868	A Deeper Love	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Love Thyself + Love Another = A Deeper Love	Issues, drama, and love abound in Shonia Brown's novel \\"A Deeper Love.\\"  In the novel, we meet Paula Travis and Angela \\"Angel\\" Reynolds.<br />Paula still relives the pain of her childhood as she was taunted for the color of her skin.  Her self-esteem is shot, she trusts few, and she feels as though she's not deserving of love.  Then she meets Angel.<br />Angel is an aspiring writer, who works for a local Atlanta theatre company.  On Christmas Eve, she meets Paula at a lesbian bar and sparks ignite.<br />What transpires from this meeting is a journey that will teach both Paula and Angel about friendship, trust, letting go of demons, and love.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.  I read it in one sitting, in a little less than three hours.  The narrator's (Angel) voice is entertaining and sharp, the pace of the writing is quick, and the tension builds nicely.  I loved the multiculturality in the story, something that is, at times, missing in African American fiction.  I enjoyed that though sex plays a part in the book, the true focus lies in the foundation of friendship and building relationships.<br />With all these good qualities, I did have one thing that caused me to jump up out of my seat and call foul and that was Angel's decision at the end of the novel.<br />I won't even tell you what that is because this book is good enough for you to read and find out for yourself.<br />Shon Bacon	2004-04-20
US	36302055	R18ULWPRAP6K5L	0452284740	121185020	Intimacy	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Get INTIMATE with this book	\\"Intimacy: Erotic Stories of Love, Lust, and Marriage by Black Men\\" is a collection you have to pick up.  I was a fan of \\"After Hours,\\" but INTIMACY raises the bar HIGH with stories that will arouse you and that will make you stop and think.  What impresses me the most is that these stories have sustenance.  These are stories that yes, will make you hot, but they will also draw you into the worlds of the characters.  You'll get to see what they want (other than sex), you'll get to see fully-fleshed out characters with lives who want to make their lives \\"complete\\" by adding that intimate component, whether it's lust, love, or marriage (or any of the many nuances that fall under intimacy).  My suggestion for you all is to buy this book and keep it on your nightstand for about a month, reading a story each night before bed.  If your libido isn't on full thrum at the end of this tantalizing journey, you may want to go and have yourself checked out.<br />Shon Bacon	2004-02-25
US	36302055	R25FR2ADCGK1G0	0974406619	196675144	Anonymity: A Tale of Suspense, Seduction & Revenge	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Solid Debut Novel	Margie Gosa Shivers' debut novel, &quot;Anonymity&quot; introduces us to Cara Fleming, an 'ideal' woman.  She's beautiful, she's caring, she has morals and values, and she works hard to hold her marriage together, even after the juice has run low and her husband has an affair.  As if trying to repair a marriage isn't hard enough, Cara's world is rocked to its foundation when her husband receives an anonymous phone call that leads him to accuse her of having an affair.  In a snap, Cara is 'forced' out of her home and finds herself alone and with divorce papers.  Someone is determined to ruin Cara, and she refuses to go down without a fight; however, she ultimately must learn that the price may be too high in finding out the truth.<br />I was definitely drawn into Shivers' world in &quot;Anonymity&quot; where politics, marriage, and scandalous activities run rampant.  Cara is a complex character and the situation Shivers throws Cara in allows the character shine.  Shivers handles the complexity of the storyline well; I never found myself lost or confused.  From the first page, I was intrigued with figuring out who had it in for Cara and how the story would pan out, and Shivers paces the story nicely, letting the tension rise, and giving readers bits of information to push them further into the story.  My only concern as I read was that at times, I felt I was being told too much information at times, and I wanted to figure out things myself.<br />For those interested in suspenseful thrillers that will leave you flipping pages quickly, you should definitely give &quot;Anonymity&quot; a read.  I look forward to seeing what Shivers puts out next.<br />Shon Bacon	2004-01-24
US	36302055	R24HR40AKWIS0C	0743225384	353982648	Soothe Your Nerves: The Black Woman's Guide to Understanding and Overcoming Anxiety, Panic, and Fearz	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Must-Have on Black Women's Book Shelves	As a black woman who has suffered from &quot;bad nerves,&quot; Dr. Angela Neal-Barnett's book &quot;Soothe Your Nerves&quot; was a welcomed and much-needed work in my life.  Everyone has heard of the SUPER WOMAN, those women who can be mother and worker and homemaker and lover, and whatever other titles there are to staple onto her.  This super woman icon is even more prevalent in the black community, and when you have a culture that for the most part, would rather work out their problems themselves instead of seek outside help, it's not hard to see why thousands of black women suffer from anxiety disorders.<br />What Neal-Barnett does in &quot;Soothe Your Nerves&quot; is first reassure women by letting them know that they are not weak because they need help, and then she explains reasons why black women-historically-have not sought outside help for their problems.  From there, Neal-Barnett offers a variety of methods for women to utilize in order to begin the healing process and embark on reclaiming their lives.  Outside of the great information that Neal-Barnett provides in the book, what I loved most about it is that I finally 'felt' that I was not alone, that there are others, like me, who need guidance, who need to be reassured that there is nothing wrong with them, that these problems can be removed.  Neal-Barnett's book, I believe, can be used as a bridge to spark discussion and bring forth community among black women so we can create support systems and give the help that so many sisters need.<br />Shon Bacon	2004-01-24
US	36302055	R1V9DOGZZQLBJK	0595256155	450057396	The Big Payback	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Payback CAN be sweet	Micah, Juanita and Pepper have been best friends since their teen years and have always had each other's back.  When Pepper's husband, Edmond Waverly Windbrook III--a very sick and disturbed man--beats Pepper almost to death, Micah and Juanita seek the ultimate payback: the demise of Edmond.  This is just a small intro to the world of Betty B. Byers' erotic thriller, &quot;The Big Payback,&quot; a novel that is fast paced and full of intriguing characters that will keep your interests piqued.<br />What I enjoyed the most about &quot;The Big Payback&quot; is its smooth pacing.  Byers has a tight style that enables her to tell readers exactly what they need to know and it made for a fast and smooth read.  Characters are well drawn out, and I would dare anyone to find a character as despicable and mentally twisted as Edmond.  I found myself wanting to get in on the payback and do some damage.  Aside from the round characters, quick pacing and the multitude of plot twists that make the story compelling, I did have one major drawback.  Throughout the story, sections of the story were &quot;block quoted&quot; and slowed my reading.  These sections were meant to provide--I think--in depth analysis on a character's motivation, or to go into a flashback, etc.  In the end, these sections were slow reading, and they felt like information that I wanted embedded into the story and not bracketed off from the story.<br />Overall, &quot;The Big Payback&quot; is a novel that I would definitely recommend, and I plan to check out Byers' previous work and take note of any future novels.<br />Shon Bacon	2004-01-24
US	36302055	RGEGN2REN4YGE	1555836216	239366125	The Long Blue Moan: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Solid novel full of vivid description and drama	Tyrone, David, Face, and Browny: four seemingly different boys of the 70s, all students at Performing Arts High, are brought together when they are assigned the task of forming a musical group.  Despite the success of their first song, the group falls apart, and what \\"The Long Blue Moan\\" shows the reader is the 20-year history and aftermath of these men's lives, lives that are full of drama, dreams, passion, sex, violence, and so much more.<br />There are several positive qualities to Ross' \\"The Long Blue Moan,\\" such as the frankness of his writing and of his characters.  These four main characters represent a myriad of personalities, all unique in their pains and wishes, as well as their desires.  Another kudo to Ross must go out for his detailing of New York City and his rhythmic, poetic writing style which flows well with the NYC setting and the entangled personalities of his main characters.  Ross keeps it real with his male characters, who love men and yet, a few of them, must <BR>deal with the conflicts within themselves that arises because of this love.  Ross places the drama right in the readers' faces and forces us to look at every crevice of these characters' lives.<br />Though the novel's 'realness' is a positive for me, it also presented a negative reaction as well.  There was way too much drama and problems for these characters, and for me, a little drama goes a long way.  Another minor concern for me was the character of Browny.  His character does not grow too much in the story and, typically, this isn't a problem; the problem came when I read various phrases of Browny's that he used as an adult that he used as a kid and it just did not ring true to me.  It was the continuous usage of those phrases throughout the novel that rankled me a bit.<br />Overall, this is a novel that I would definitely recommend to others.  E. Lynn Harris and James Earl Hardy have been two of the most popular black authors to introduce readers to the loves and lives of gay Black men, and I would encourage everyone to add L. M. Ross to that list.  I don't think you would be disappointed.<br />Shon Bacon	2003-07-18
US	36302055	R1X4VMBU5OWZHR	0312307349	605969989	Somebody's Knocking at My Door: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Solid follow-up to THE TURNING POINT	Francis Ray brings us \\"Somebody's Knocking at My Door\\" (the follow-up to \\"The Turning Point\\"), a novel that revolves around the lives of three unforgettable women and teaches about forgiveness, love, friendship, and the healing of past pains.<br />Art historian Kristen Mayfield is out of a job, thanks to Claudette Thibodeaux Laurent's gold-digging, conniving husband, but the elusive Rafe Crawford--who feels responsible for Kristen losing her job--helps her find another, and their rare connection sparks a yearning in Kristen.  Though Rafe also shares this yearning, he refuses to make a move on Kristen; instead, he spends his life fighting to forget his abusive childhood and the hate he has for his father.  Kristen sets out on a journey to help Rafe overcome his past and perhaps start a new future with her.<br />Kristen's best friend and next door neighbor, Angelique Fleming, has struggled her whole life to get ahead.  Through living in several foster homes and working at a \\"gentlemen's\\" club to help pay for college, Angelique is a dissertation away from getting her doctorate in psychology.  On a hiatus from men, Angelique finds herself tempted by Damien Broussard, a devastatingly handsome lawyer who finds an instant attraction to Angelique.  If he can overcome his jealousy of Angelique having worked at The Inferno and if she can accept love, the two could be a perfect match.<br />Claudette Thibodeaux Laurent is a wealthy businesswoman who is married to Maurice Laurent, a man with no scruples and no love for Claudette, except for her money.  Despite the obvious signs of Maurice's infidelities, Claudette keeps her family's honor and overlooks her husband's indiscretions; that is until they smack her directly between the eyes.  As Claudette tries to maintain her hardworking persona while juggling a failing marriage, Jacques Broussard, a friend of Claudette's, anxiously awaits for his chance to express his love for her.<br />In \\"Somebody's Knocking at My Door,\\" Ray offers her readers vivid descriptions of New Orleans and her characters.  The supporting characters added substantial depth to the story.  Ray tackles the subject of childhood abuse in a tender way, and I was very drawn to the character Rafe, who was in so much pain because of the abuse he suffered at the hands of his father.<br />I did, however, have two main issues with the story.  One is that the story felt too long.  Some of the information that pertains to \\"The Turning Point\\" storyline dragged my reading and I found myself wanting the resolution of the story to arrive faster.  My second issue is that the ending/resolution seemed too quick.  The reader spends over 300 pages feeling characters' constraints and wants and desires, particularly Rafe's, and the resolution to his story seemed to end quickly, in spite of the lengthy journey to get to the ending.<br />Despite these two concerns, overall, I enjoyed \\"Somebody's Knocking at My Door.\\"  High marks go to Ray for character development, creating a strong sense of setting, and of letting the reader feel the characters' pains and revel in their joys.  Ray's fans will not be disappointed with this novel, and I would urge newcomers to check it out and pick up \\"The Turning Point\\" as well.<br />Shon Bacon	2003-06-18
US	36302055	RKLG0T28NQMP0	1553063945	925367101	For Love and Grace (For Love and Grace Series #1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid Christian Fiction	Lifelong friends, Dr. Greg Dixon and attorney Derrick Madison, find their friendship rocked to the core when Derrick's mother is killed in an automobile accident and Greg is selected to perform a life-and-death surgery on the suspect accused of causing the accident.  The strain in their relationship is compounded when Greg falls in love with the suspect, a beautiful, young coed by the name of Jessica Grace.<br />This is the center of Kendra Norman-Bellamy's debut novel, \\"For Love and Grace,\\" a book that is solidly written and full of interesting characters who look to God to help them through the troubling times that lie ahead.<br />\\"For Love and Grace\\" was a quick read for me.  I read it in a few hours.  I was really drawn into the story from the first page and Norman-Bellamy draws her characters very distinctly, giving them each something unique to draw upon.<br />Despite my enjoyment of the novel, there were a few things that hindered me from giving this novel a five.  We know that Greg is a catch, but I began to gloss over sections where women were fawning all over Greg.  A few select moments would have gone a long way.  Some of the medical jargon or scenes felt as if I had seen them before in movies or read them in books, and I wanted something a bit fresher and authentic to the profession and this particular story.  Grace's and Greg's mothers--Miss Lena and Miss Mattie--did a lot of comical bantering in the story and at times, it seemed to detract from the story instead of add to it.<br />Aside from these things, my overall read of this novel was great and fast, and I would recommend this novel to all that wish to read a heartfelt novel about love, death, forgiveness, and placing total trust in Christ.<br />Shon Bacon	2003-06-11
US	36302055	R1FL08UETP4X3Q	1573222348	622945505	Drinking Coffee Elsewhere	Books	5	41	44	N	N	LOVE LOVE LOVE this collection	I had previously read a few of ZZ Packer's stories in lit magazines such as ZOETROPE and The New Yorker and I have been anxiously awaiting this collection.  I have not been disappointed.<br />\\"Drinking Coffee Elsewhere\\" is a collection of unique, startling and at times, brutally truthful stories by Packer, a new author.  All these stories, in some way, touch upon themes of alienation, the search for truth (whatever that truth is for the characters), of approval, and of identity.  Stories range from the title piece, \\"Drinking Coffee Elsewhere,\\" about a young black woman who enters a ivy league university and must struggle not only with alienation and her identity but the death of her mother, to \\"Geese,\\" a story about a sister who travels to Tokyo to make loads of money only to find herself destitute and in the company of people just as down and out as she is.<br />What I enjoy the most about these eight stories is that Packer tells stories about black people, but she does so multiculturally, or \\"realistically\\".  The world isn't full of just black people or just white people.  The worlds in Packer's stories travel the globe from Baltimore, to Yale University, to Tokyo.  We see a vast array of people and places and situations, and Packer is not afraid to show us all these facets, nor is she afraid to show us the bleakness of reality.  Her stories do not end with cotton candy and happily ever afters.  Sometimes, life is hard, and Packer portrays these times exquisitely.<br />Anyone who is interested in reading well written stories about the facets of black life, will no doubt enjoy ZZ Packer's debut collection as much as I have.<br />Shon Bacon	2003-06-07
US	36302055	R2TXCNCR8MN8XF	1400046440	187616557	More Like Wrestling: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Lyrical in motion, with hard-edged, yet REAL characters	MORE LIKE WRESTLING is a debut novel that is stirring and lyrical, and raw and real.  Its pages tell a story about all the strife that goes on in the world --alcoholism, abuse, drugs, murder, familial separation-- through the eyes of two sisters whose love for each other is so fierce, they find themselves potentially unable to grow up and out of the pain and inflictions of their pasts.<br />Oakland, California sets the stage for this powerful novel about Paige and Pinch, who are on shaky and volatile ground as they live with their quiet mother and her increasingly abusive boyfriend.  One fateful day, a confrontation between Paige, Pinch and the boyfriend results in their mother renting Paige and Pinch an apartment to live in, alone.  This surprising turn of events --moving a 12- and 14-year-old into an apartment to take care of each other, becomes the point of no return for Paige and Pinch as they find themselves meeting new people and making friends whom introduce them into the world of drugs, dealing, drinking, and death.<br />It is these friends and this new world of unforgiving and ruthless things that begins an unraveling of sorts for Paige and Pinch and their existences.  Each will struggle to find her true essence, will try to come to grips with her past and present in order to move on to her future.  Will the pair be able to break their dangerously tight love in order to escape the, at times, mean streets of Oakland, to escape their dependency on each other and their painful pasts, so that they can see better days?<br />Through the voices of Paige and Pinch, Danyel Smith creates a harshly beautiful portrait of real people going through real trials and tribulations.  Smith's mosaic, fragmented-like writing style is poetic and lyrical, hard and abrupt, and it cannot help but to lull you into not only the stories of Paige and Pinch, but also the stories of the other characters in the story, whom Smith draws out in concrete details just as poignant and revealingas the two narrators.<br />I read this novel in virtually one sitting, needing to race back to it every time I put it down for a second.  I felt connected to Paige and Pinch, and I felt visually entertained by Smith's lush detail of Oakland and the area.  I would highly recommend MORE THAN WRESTLING to readers so they can enjoy it for themselves, and I look forward to reading Smith's future works.<br />Shon Bacon	2003-01-30
US	36302055	R1LV5P7R8XV51S	1929279027	352261831	Best Seller	Books	3	5	5	N	N	3.5 -->Want to see this NOVEL as a MOVIE! <-- 3.5	Imagine you are a writer.  You love to write, but you find that success keeps itself at least an arm's length away.  Magically, one day you meet your favorite author, and he changes your life and offers you the ability to write the greatest best sellers the world has ever read.  With something this great, there has to be a catch, and this is no exception.  Your best sellers eerily depict the real life situations and deaths of people close to you.  Ultimately, you have to ask yourself, is being a best-selling author more important than the lives of your friends...and possibly, yourself.<br />This is the scenario for Hope C. Clarke's wicked, psychological suspense novel, BEST SELLER.  When Kurt Daley, an aspiring writer, receives a mysterious book titled BEST SELLER from her favorite best-selling author, Kurt's literary career sparks wildly.  Not all is golden, however, because Kurt's friends are dying and their deaths strangely link to the macabre best seller she pens.  Before another friend, or her new boyfriend, Robert dies, Kurt finds herself on a mission to learn of the secrets hidden behind being a best seller before time runs out.<br />I have to say that Hope C. Clarke has one of the most original storylines I have read in a while.  She plays a bit with metafiction as well in that this is a book within a book that -- in its own way -- deals with the writing of fiction or its conventions.  Clarke is an author that definitely is not afraid of stepping into the dark side.  Her writing is frightening, fast-paced, and intriguing.  Oddly enough, I found myself more engrossed with the story within the novel (Kurt's novel) than with the \\"real\\" story.  I wondered if Clarke intentionally wrote the novel like that.<br />Despite my enjoyment of the storyline and of the pace/techniques of BEST SELLER, there were many things in the novel that bothered me and made me lower my rating.  Most of these things are technical/grammatical in nature, like getting lost in the dialogueand not knowing who is speaking.  Several times, I noted misuse of quotation marks and without tags, I did not know who was who.  Also, a few name changes in significant spots in the novel (especially with David-Daniel) had me going back and trying to figure out what was going on.  There were also tense changes within paragraphs; far too many for me to just move past them.  The ending was a bit flat for me as well.  I felt the story warranted a stronger ending; I also wanted MORE pages to the story.  Not to give anything away, but by page 25, Kurt meets her favorite best-selling author, Dean, and she receives the book.  I was willing to buy this whole scenario, but I needed more in the beginning of the story, some development of character prior to this moment, so that I could feel centered in such a greatly weird premise.<br />Overall, I give HIGH marks to the unique storyline, the metafictional style of the novel, and Clarke's stark, unencumbered writing style; however, I had too many questions in regards to the technical and grammatical issues I noted to give this novel a higher rating.  I do recommend that others read BEST SELLER, and I will end by saying that I would love to see this done as a movie.  It is very visual, and it is rare to find a storyline like this where the characters are African American.  I look forward to reading more works by Clarke.<br />Shon Bacon	2003-01-04
US	36302055	REQ4B5FVA7BRR	0971627479	430748834	First Love: What Would You Give Up To Keep Yours?	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good story, though a bit long and preachy	First Love is a novel about a young woman who must choose between her God and virginity, and her first love.  Amani Shepard is the youngest of seven daughters and the only one of the brood to save her virginity.  Her mother, Olivia, is also the seventh of seven daughters, and she prays daily that Amani will stay virginal, unlike her six sisters; however, when Amani meets &quot;Miracle Man&quot; Marley, a star college basketball player, her strength in God begins to weaken for the strength of Marley's embraces and kisses.  Will she save herself and her body, or will Amani give in to temptation?  Olivia hopes her daughter can save her virtue without her having to reveal painful secrets from her own past.<br />First Love is a good story; a story that needs to be told. There are not a lot of books, if any out today, about young African American teenagers, who believe in Christ and have strong, religious convictions, and at the same time, lead normal lives like other teenagers.  I felt connected with Amani AND Olivia and cared about their wellbeings throughout the novel.  Callegari adds to her strong, story focus to include characters such as Destiny, Amani's best friend and possible nemesis, especially when Destiny sets her sights on Marley.  There is also the &quot;scheming cheerleader&quot; who plots to get Marley between the sheets.  Though I enjoyed this cheerleader's vindictive ways, I was put off by her backstory.  I thought it was a bit much, and it really did not add to the story.<br />Even with these positives, there are issues I had with First Love.  For one, the story is too preachy.  Almost every other page has a biblical reference/citation, and every page &quot;lectures&quot; on loving God.  In and of itself, that is not a problem; however, for me, this is a fictional novel, and most people want to be entertained and not feel as if they are being lectured to.  It's easier to persuade people when they do not know they are being persuaded.  At times, I felt like I was being hit over the head with the Bible, and that left me with a bad taste in my mouth.  There is a niche in the publishing world for this book, but I also believe that less lecturing could broaden the marketplace for this enjoyable read.<br />Also, the story is a little longwinded.  There were several times I thought the story was &quot;over,&quot; only to find out that I had 100 pages to go, or 75, or 50.  The story's climactic ending happened early for me in the book, so the last several pages tired me out to read.<br />Despite my negatives, I did enjoy reading Callegari's debut novel, First Love.  Callegari has a lyrical style that I think will only grow as she writer more.  I would recommend that anyone interested in a refreshing change to fiction, should pick up this book and give it a try.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-12-31
US	36302055	R1BX8ENXZNL821	1583456244	123594752	Lady Killer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Starts SLOW, Ends FAST and INTRIGUING	Beware of a woman scorned, especially a woman with the intelligence and the means to do harm in ways only once thought of as unimaginable.<br />In Gail McFarland's suspenseful novel, Lady Killer, Detective Jaz Ballantine is on the hunt for his foster brother's murderer.  Jaz is bewildered with who could have done this and why the murderer chose to practically mutilate GQ (Jaz's foster brother) and take one of his teeth.  What's even more mysterious is the body count at the morgue.  It's growing full of young, single, handsome, African American males, all murdered in similar fashion.  Jaz realizes that he has a serial killer on his hands, and a unique serial killer at that.  It's expected that a WOMAN, an African American woman may be responsible for the murders.  Jaz vows to find the killer to GQ's murder, and despite his misgivings, Jaz brings his ex-wife, Dhana, into the case to profile the killer.  Through the vigorous twists, turns, and surprises that plague Jaz and Dhana's investigation, the <BR>two find themselves reconnecting on a more personal level.  As their love grows and ignite, so does the murderous rampage and the cat and mouse games of the serial killer.  Will the duo find the killer and rekindle their love before more bloodshed?<br />I have to say that I really enjoyed this story, more so at the end than in the beginning.  The novel starts off very slow, and I found myself skimming through to get to the more suspenseful parts.  I have to state that I read the uncorrected proof, so I'm not sure if all 422 pages of the novel was published; however, I thought the novel could be a lot leaner, especially in the middle.  I was interested in the relationship between Jaz and Dhana yet, at the same time, I wanted more of the Lady Killer and her story prior to taking \\"matters into her own hands.\\"<br />I can say definitively that McFarland's Lady Killer is the most evil and brilliant female villain I have ever read.  She frightened and excited me at the same time and made me want to finish the novel to see what would happen to her.<br />I would recommend that others pick up this novel and give it a read.  I don't think you will be disappointed.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-12-31
US	36302055	R269BIMWDSB3KI	0738854522	419199683	The Ties That Bind	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Needs more STORY, less SUMMARY	Ties can bind people in loving and painful ways, and in Electa Rome Parks' novel, &quot;The Ties That Bind,&quot; main characters Mia, Brice and Christian are binded in both ways.  Mia is a beautiful, young romantic who has finally found her prince charming in the handsome, Brice.  However, as quickly as Mia falls in love with Brice, she finds herself falling into despair when Brice becomes overly jealous, demanding, and abusive, using her as a punching bag to vent his own personal issues.  One of the major problems that rises is that Mia's idea of a loving mate is someone that sees her as an equal.  For Brice, the ideal mate is a woman who knows her &quot;place,&quot; knows who wears the pants in the family, and is there at her husband's every beck and call.  Brice is not used to Mia's fiery independence; after all, as an ex-womanizer, he is used to having women fawn over him and letting him reign supreme.  Brice's best friend, Christian, is a current womanizer and vows to never fall into that love trap, but when he meets Mia and learns of the pain and heartache she goes through with Brice, Christian feels a tug at his heart strings and an overwhelming need to love and protect Mia.  Will Mia falter and fall into Christian's loving arms?  Will Brice hurt Mia beyond repair or learn from his wrong ways?  Will Christian stay away from the woman he loves to keep a friendship that he cherishes?<br />These are a few of the many questions that are posed and answered in Parks' novel.  At 175 pages, this was a very fast read for me, and the premise of the story held my attention.  However, I think what bothered me is that the story is more summary than scene.  The novel is told from three points of view -- Mia, Brice and Christian.  None of the main characters appeared to have truly distinct voices, there were time lapses in the storyline that confused me, and the characters tell us what happened and do not allow us to SEE what happens for ourselves.  There were several times in the story where I wanted the author to camp out a while and flesh out the scene that was begging to be revealed.  On a more personal reader note, I found myself only truly liking one character throughout the entire novel, and that was Christian.  Brice's excuses read more like the author's excuses for Brice's actions, and Mia began to grate on my nerve a quarter-way through the novel.  However, with the story's premise, I think we should be angry at Mia for staying and should have some animosity for Brice because of his abusive behavior.<br />Overall, I think &quot;The Ties That Bind&quot; could have been a stronger novel with more 'in scene' moments and less summary; however, I am interested in reading Parks' latest novel because I can tell that she really enjoys telling stories, and I want to read the stories that she has to tell.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-12-31
US	36302055	R2LKF16TYH8IIQ	0595187447	112983019	Saturday's Child	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A Good Drama to Lay Back with on a Saturday Afternoon - 3.5	$aturday's Child is Sara Livingston's story.  Sara's middle name is DRAMA.  For example, she is married to a man she has not seen in three years.  She is struggling, daily, to support her and her daughter, Bethany.  Her relationship with her father is shaky.  Her girlfriend has a man with a temper.  On the top of her drama list:  Sara is fed up with love and relationships.  She is done with men; however, when her best friend introduces her to two men in ONE day, Sara finds her self mixed up in a deadly obsession AND what could be the love of a lifetime.  Before all is said and done, Sara must first reclaim and move beyond her past so she can let true love enter her life.<br />Gayle Jackson Sloan's $ATURDAY'S CHILD is a good read.  In over 290 pages, Sloan introduces us to a very opinionated, emotional, yet strong main character who is ensconced in dark subjects such as physical abuse, drug abuse, murder, and rape in an interesting and tension-filled manner.  Sara Livingston is a character that will make you laugh, cry, get angry, and cheer.  Despite my enjoyment of $ATURDAY'S CHILD, I did have some glitches in my reading.  One, I noticed a few instances where characters either sounded the same or used similar dialogue or sayings.  This made it hard to decipher between characters, or to find some uniqueness to individual characters.  My second, and probably biggest glitch in my reading, came in the last 80 pages of the story.  The action picks up TREMENDOUSLY in the last third of the story, and I was on the edge of my seat, reading to see how the story would turn out.  However, things happened excessively fast for me.  People who were not heard from for several chapters returned for major events in the story, and this jarred me and made me have to try to remember who they were.  It disconcerted me, but overall, the story was a satisfying read.<br />I'm interested to see what Sloan comes up with for her next novel, and I recommend that for those of you who HAVEN'T read $aturday's Child, pick it up and give it a try.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-12-31
US	36302055	RANSW5LOPGNER	074322616X	331686496	A Quiet Storm: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Painfully Beautiful Debut Novel	Rachel Howzell Hall makes a stunning entrance into the literary world with her novel, A Quiet Storm.  This story incorporates poetic beauty with themes of familial love and mental illness within an African American family.<br />Stacy and Rikki Moore are sisters, tight in love and in the secrets of mental illness.  Since childhood and on through adulthood, Stacy has lived in Rikki's shadow.  Rikki is beautiful, talented, intelligent, and popular; however, Stacy has also spent her entire life hiding her unstable sister's destructive ways and has struggled to find her own way in life while keeping Rikki from falling into the dark depths of an illness that could have fatal consequences.  Their mother is hell bent on NOT letting Rikki seek medical help for her problem, so over time, Rikki's illness escalates to the point that she's attempting to commit suicide.  Things hit the breaking point when Rikki becomes a suspect in the disappearance of her pediatrician husband, Matt, who has recently asked Rikki for a divorce.<br />A Quiet Storm is probably the best book I've read in 2002 thus far.  The images are vivid, the language is real and at times, very poetic and sensual.  Hall brings out a topic important yet not too often read about in the African American community:  mental illness.  I was caught up in the lives of these characters.  I shed tears, I felt the tugs in my heart and stomach, I attempted to prod the characters to go other ways,<BR>everything.  My only minor criticism is that at times, the narrator's voice seemed a bit young, when I don't think the narrator--at the time the story is told--is young.<br />Aside from that, this is a novel that is painful to read, but Hall paints a captivating story that is informative, entertaining and full of literary merit.  I can't wait to read the next offering by Hall...	2002-10-21
US	36302055	RDMO1VXAT1HBA	0452283329	197881398	After Hours: A Collection of Erotic Writing by Black Men	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Erotica that focuses on the BLACK MAN's thoughts - 4.5	I have been eagerly awaiting After Hours.  A fan of black erotica, I noticed that writings BY black men were pretty scarce, so when news of After Hours came out, I knew I had to read it, and let me tell it, it doesn't disappoint.<br />After Hours contains stories that aren't simply about sex.  These stories actually have depth and make you think while at the same time, they evoke the sensual tension that makes good erotica....GOOD.  And it's a plus that with these hot black male authors writing these stories, it's nice to finally see a positive spin on sex from a male's perspective; it's refreshing.<br />You will find yourself immersed in wonderful stories that will tickle your mind and your sensual bone, especially in stories like \\"If It Makes You Happy,\\" by Cole Riley, which is by far my favorite in the collection.  In this story, a correctional officer gets caught up in the sexual heat permeated by a beautiful inmate and when he essentially ruins his life to have her, he realizes that this beautiful creature has skeletons too big for him...or her to tackle.<br />Aside from Riley's stellar story, After Hours contains nineteen stories from some of the best black male authors in the business today, such as National Book Award Winner, Charles Johnson, Colin Channer, Curtis Bunn, Brandon Massey, Brian Egeston, and many more.<br />If you want to peek into the many facets of the erotic black man's mind - the virgin who is afraid of revealing his inexperience for fear of rejection, the husband who finds himself in an awful predicament when he assumes the sexy notes he's been receiving are coming from an admirer, the man who mysteriously won't allow his girlfriend to kiss him and the hilarious reason behind it, the lyrically beautiful story about a man who wants what he can't have and a woman who can't be for him what she doesn't know she is, among many other deep sensuous tales - then you owe it to yourself to pick up After Hours and be tantalized.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-08-06
US	36302055	R2HWOQ49Z3NZ35	1583141936	427429828	Once In A Lifetime (Arabesque)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Strong characters keep this story together - 3.5	Miscommunication and secrets are at the root of Gwynne Forster's latest romance novel, Once in a Lifetime.  The novel offered great characters that I grew to love, though at times, I found the plot a little confusing and the tension not heightened enough.<br />Alexis Stevenson has recently divorced her rich, yet cold husband and has nothing...except for her darling, four-year-old daughter, Tara.  Her job as a university professor is gone, and she's desperate to find a job to take care of her and her daughter.  Enter a homemaker position at the Harrington estate, in which Alexis will have to brighten up a home that has been closed off for years and lived in by three brothers who have lived like the bachelors they are.  Almost immediately, Alexis falls for the middle brother, Telford Harrington, and so does Tara.  Alexis finds it difficult to take on the task of making the estate a &quot;home,&quot; especially when dealing with her growing feelings for Telford and his obvious attraction to her.  Tara's quick attachment to Telford and her need for a father figure, also make it hard to Alexis to get in too deep with Telford.  Her position is only for two years.  Who's to say she would be asked to stay after that time.  As her stay at the estate lengthens, Alexis finds it hard to deny her feelings for Telford, but when mistrust and miscommunication arises through a series of situations, she realizes that if she truly wants Telford and is willing to fight for him, then all the secrets must be aired out to allow her heart to fully bloom.  Can she bury her insecurities and allow her feelings to be revealed?<br />I have to say, I read this book in pretty much one sitting.  I was really drawn into the characters' lives and their storylines, particularly that of little Miss Tara.  She was about the most vibrant and lovable character I have read in a book in a long time.  The romantic scenes in the novel truly grabbed me and made me appreciate Forster's wonderful writing and way of conveying emotion and scene with few words.  Two things kept me from giving Once in a Lifetime a higher rating.  One, the tension wasn't heightened enough for me.  I never felt that the main characters WOULDN'T get together.  They never seemed in jeopardy, and so I wasn't nervous or scared for the characters and their relationship.  Two, I found myself confused a few times in regards to who was speaking, and how fast scenes and situations switched up in the story.  A couple of times, I had to go back and read to make sure I knew what was going on and who said what.<br />Overall, however, I do recommend that others pick up Once in a Lifetime.  I'm a HUGE fan of Gwynne Forster, and her characters will always keep you glued to their stories.  After reading this and recently, When Twilight Comes, I am definitely anticipating Forster's next literary read.<br />  <BR>Shon Bacon	2002-08-06
US	36302055	R29UOKY9BC3APD	0345447190	955143337	In the Arms of One Who Loves Me	Books	4	4	4	N	N	BEAUTIFUL writing, though story missed SOMETHING - 3.5	In the Arms of One Who Loves Me is the debut novel from author, Jacqueline Jones LaMon.  The novel introduces us to Nia Benson and Seth Jackson, two people who are trying to figure out the career and romantic paths of their lives in order to get to that place where they can exhale; through coincidental circumstances, the two always manage to see each other, if only briefly.<br />Nia is in an 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it' relationship, has a friendship with a woman she really knows nothing about, and has aspirations to run her own public relations firm.  When office politics leave Nia jobless, she finds herself trying to piece together a life that is slowly falling apart at the seams.<br />Seth is a man who loves the ladies, but at the wedding reception for his best friend, he falls in love with a mysterious sister named, Lauren.  As he tries to build his budding music career, Seth finds himself reliving old ways as a naughty friend/neighbor seduces him and leaves him struggling to keep his relationship with Lauren intact.<br />In the Arms is a well-written novel by Ms. LaMon.  She uses her skills as a poet effectively, and she definitely has a way with words that can move the reader.  I read the first chap of her novel on her website and CRAVED to read the entire novel.  As I did, however, I found some things that hindered my reading.  One of those hindrances was the time sequence of the novel.  Each chapter goes back and forth between Seth and Nia, and I had a hard time trying to figure out where, as a reader, I was in the story.  This problem fixes itself towards the end.  Other things that gave me pause can be grouped into one thing, the &quot;unsurprises&quot; of some of the surprise situations.  I don't want to go into detail because I hope everyone will buy this book and experience it for him or her self, but there were situations in the story that just seemed &quot;planted&quot; and not grown organically through the story.<br />Overall, I would highly recommend that people pick up this novel.  Despite my own sidetracks of the story, I believe people will enjoy LaMon's writing style.  Reading her makes me anxious to see what she comes up with next.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-08-06
US	36302055	R1O96HA59GOKPQ	0595203256	309962622	Thrifty Sister: Saving Ways for Black Folks	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A &quot;Tell it like it is&quot; Book on being Thrifty	Sometimes, we need someone to sit us down and talk to us one on one about things, and in regards to living a thrifty lifestyle, author Pat Worthy Benson does just that in her book, Thrifty Sister:  Saving Ways for Black Folks.<br />This is an excellent guide for those who are tired of being preached to about what they should or shouldn't do with their lives when it comes to spending money and setting priorities.  Benson, who has spent over 30 years investigating, testing and living the thrifty lifestyle, is like a friend who sits down with you, tells you how being thrifty has helped her organize her life and how it can do the same for you.<br />There's info galore in this book on balancing your budget and managing your life, creating action plans for major, positive change, eliminating negative traits that are sabotaging your goals, improving your lifestyle on the money you currently earn, planning your future, and even down to the basics such as minimizing and prioritizing your grocery list, tips to keep you beautiful without paying a pretty penny, making a meal stretch, and so much more.<br />I would definitely recommend this book to everyone who feels the money crunch on a monthly basis and would want to get his or her finances and life in check.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-08-06
US	36302055	R17S2D2QSPY8TR	0375507590	675439013	Cubicles: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	GREAT novel full of intricate characters and plotlines	Cubicles is an excellent novel by author, Camika Spencer.  In just one novel, the reader is immersed with intricate characters, racism in the workforce, complex family situations, sisters and dating, friendship, and the backbiting that goes on in corporate America, among other intriguing storylines.<br />Cubicles intertwines the lives of three African American women, who on the surface couldn't be more different if they tried, but through their jobs at Meridian Southwest, their lives connect in friendship, backbiting and mystery.  Faulkner is a young sister with a go-getter personality, who is working twice as hard to get her due at the company.  Joyce is her demanding boss, a sister with a past full of pain, but prefers to cover her past and treat everyone beneath like garbage.  Margaret is a 60-year-old that works under Joyce and finds her self having familial problems, health issues, and a past secret that involves her and Joyce.  Cubicles spans a few weeks in the lives of these characters that culminates to reveal secrets that were buried decades earlier.<br />I LOVED Cubicles.  I was really drawn into the characters and their lives.  Spencer deepens her character development by providing characters that make you hate them one minute, love them one minute, and ache to make them see the light, in the next.  I HIGHLY recommend this novel to readers for the characters are well drawn out and the storylines push you to keep reading.  I am definitely going to pick up Spencer's first novel, and I look forward to her next literary effort.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-07-23
US	36302055	R2MMBIPDBU8I8Y	1575669196	975549248	When Twilight Comes	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Strong characters, moving storyline - 4.5	Many people will relate to the Hairston family portrayed in Gwynne Forster's novel, When Twilight Comes and will find themselves entrenched in a story that so closely mirrors situations that happen in real life.  At first glance, they appear to be a happy family, full of love, trust, and friendship, but beneath the smiles lay connections that are easily broken, especially when money is thrown up into the mix.<br />When Twilight Comes tells the tale of Marge Hairston, a family matriarch, and the publisher and owner of The Woodmore Times, North Carolina's most influential African American newspaper.  Marge is surrounded by her seemingly loving children, Drogan, Cassie and her baby, Sharon.  When Marge becomes seriously ill, she insists that one of her children take over the family paper.  Drogan, who is the family charmer, refuses, as does Cassie and Sharon; however, when Sharon realizes how important this is to her mother, she gives up a promising career in education to step into her mother's shoes...and perhaps to find her place in the world, as well.<br />Marge signs the paper, lock, stock, and barrel, over to Sharon, and thus begins the unraveling of a family, as Drogan and Cassie spew hatred upon Sharon for swiping the paper from them and for making them have to WORK for their futures instead of riding the money trail offered through the paper's success.<br />If this wasn't enough, individually, everyone must deal with their small families at home.  Drogan must deal with his wife and her mysterious outings...and his own affair, Cassie has to deal with her uppity nature and her refusal to be the loving wife that her husband deserves, and Sharon must try to think rationally about her growing attraction to a man that allows her to grow into the woman her mother always wanted her to become.<br />There is definitely enough drama in this novel to keep you flipping pages.  You'll laugh and cry; you'll revel in the successes and be angry at the failures.  Forster develops great characters that you will recognize from LIFE.  With this novel, Forster shows that she can break from her romantic novels to write gripping mainstream fiction...on the level of literature.  Two minor glitches snagged me in the story...one was Judd..and for those who haven't read the novel, CHECK IT OUT.  I just found him to be a little too unreal, despite his small part in the novel.  The other glitch was the ending.  Though it closes nicely, I guess I wanted more, but that's just me.  I always want more.<br />Despite these two minor things, I HIGHLY enjoyed this novel, and it's right up there with SCARLET WOMAN, which happens to be my favorite Forster novel.  I would definitely recommend people pick up this novel and experience Forster in another realm of literature.  I'm looking forward to Forster's next mainstream, and with Once in a Lifetime perched here beside me, I know I will have something good to read while I wait.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-07-23
US	36302055	R3IL3KIVI3EDNV	0965742687	839028622	Baring My Soul	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Words that are music to the ears, food for the mind	For a little book, Stacey Tolbert's \\"Baring My Soul\\" packs a mighty, lyrical and poignant punch.  You can tell right off the bat that Stacey Tolbert, aka The Brown Suga Poet, is a spoken word poet because her words literally leap off the page in a musical way.  The line breaks, rhymes, unrhymes, rhythms all move in a fluid way that makes you want to drink what Tolbert has to say and believe me, this sister has a lot to say and doesn't believe in holding back.<br />In this compact collection, Tolbert touches upon racism, sexism, the political arena, self-respect, self-love, strong women, and many other potent topics that lets you know that behind the pretty words, Tolbert has a strong mind.<br />Though I loved every poem in the book, some of my favorites include, The \\"be\\" Anthology Poems, Hair, and Tolbert's epistolary poems, especially, Dear Nubian Teenage Girl.<br />To all readers who love the written word and an artist's ability to put words together to create beautiful and powerful statements, you owe it to yourself to pick up Baring My Soul by Stacey Tolbert because she does just that...bares her soul, in all its poetic grace.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-07-13
US	36302055	R1U66IFTSO6EOH	0156011123	233232796	Soulcatcher: And other stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Must Read Collection of Slave Narratives	For a class in contemporary literature, I read Charles Johnson's novel, Middle Passage.  The novel provoked a big response in me, big enough that I contacted the author to discuss the book.  The book and the discussion piqued an interest in me to read more novels that reflect my ancestors' painful time in history.<br />When I purchased Soulcatcher, I was excited to find a collection of stories that bring many voices together to tell of the horrible tales of slavery.  Each story was poignant and painful to read, but each enlightened me on the realism of an era where my ancestors were treated like the basic of animals.<br />Each of the 12 stories in this stellar collection provokes attention to a time in history that tends to get swept under the rug; however Johnson, with his tight, and at times, tongue-in-cheek, literary style, painfully brings it out with stories like, \\"The Transmission,\\" a story about a boy's despairing journey on a slaveship and \\"Martha's Dilemma,\\" a story told by Martha Washington about the care of her slaves after the death of her husband to a boy chained in a slaveship.<br />This collection is a must to everyone.  These stories are testaments to a reality that won't be forgotten, and Johnson vividly portrays the horrific within beautiful prose.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-07-13
US	36302055	R2ORY25LNL5HGO	0929599276	781131212	Danny's Got a Gun	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Necessary Story for all Students, Parents...and People	Peaches Smith's &quot;Danny's Got a Gun&quot; is an interactive story that tells the tale of a young student by the name of Danny who is full of pent up anger and after several months, decides to release this anger in a violent way towards people at his school.  It is a stark reminder of what has happened in recent years and what can continue to happen unless we begin a discussion on violence in schools and getting children help before tragedy occurs.<br />The story is interactive because Smith leaves pages blank at the end and ask readers to imagine being someone who is in a situation where someone is threatening their lives. What do you do?  Who are those people involved.  Smith, through her book, makes her own attempt to help this dilemma, and I think she's done a commendable job at it.<br />Danny's Got a Gun is a story for students, parents, school officials, and authority to read, so that they all can be educated and realize that this epidemic will not end until discussion is brought forth.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-06-19
US	36302055	R1IQ49TWXXEAKA	0743222784	224281852	His Insignificant Other: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Relationships at their most comedic, painful, and successful	I read Ms. Siplin's first chapter on her website and was so wrapped up in her main character, that I immediately received the book to read, and I'm so glad I did.  I read it in one sitting, and it is already up on my fave list of 2002.<br />In His Insignificant Other, we have Casey Beck, a 29-year-old sister who lives in Brooklyn, New York.  As the novel opens, Casey has been celibate for several months, blocking the loving from her boyfriend, a man who confessed of having a one night stand with his ex -- the beautiful Mali -- a month into their relationship.  Casey is finally about to release her celibacy-induced build up on her anniversary when the most surprising thing happens.  Mali returns...and she needs a place to stay.  Casey, not wanting to lead the ex to her man, agrees to let her stay with her, and thus begins the bedhopping, dramaful, reflective, hilarious, yet serious novel that Siplin has penned.<br />I fell in love with the main character, Casey.  Her narration of the story was real to me; I saw this sister, I felt for her, and I understood her confusion of the situation she was dealing with.  The friendship between Casey and her best friend, Ariadne, was a great one, and believe me when I say there is enough drama and sexcapades in this novel to keep you flipping the pages with fervor, trying to figure out what happens, who ends up with who, and who will finally get his or her life in order.<br />For a debut novel, I am truly impressed with Ms. Siplin's writing style, dialogue and narrative in His Insignificant Other.<br />I definitely will be on the lookout for future works!<br />Shon Bacon	2002-06-19
US	36302055	R2OM8LQRPUQM9F	074344289X	550574290	The Heat Seekers	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Really a 4.5...Zane at the next level!	I admit it.  I'm a junkie for online reviews, and when I read the reviews for The Heat Seekers, I wanted to read it bad.  Having been a fan of Zane's for several years, I just had to see what all the drama was about.  After I read the novel, I came back to these reviews, and I was pretty confused.  Zane has kicked her writing to a whole other level, and this is probably one of my better readings by Zane.  I think people expect a writer to stay within the confinement of one genre or style of writing without realizing that a true writer will grow, will mature, and will tackle a variety of styles in his or her writing.  That is what Zane has done with The Heat Seekers.<br />The Heat Seekers involves the stories of two sets of best friends -- Tempest and Janessa, and Dvont and Geren.  Tempest is a headstrong sister who has had a string of bad relationships, but when she meets Geren, a refine, handsome investment banker, she starts to believe that she can have that special love afforded only to soul mates.  The problem comes into play when both Tempest and Geren keep secrets that may spell the end of their love affair.  Janessa is an around the way sister who wants to try and put her life back on the right track.  She lives at home with her parents and brother, and she's ready to get a good job and make a life of her own.  At the club, the same night Tempest meets Geren, Janessa meets Dvont, a playa who doesn't believe in love, commitment, relationships, or children.  He's strictly in it for the sex, plain and simple.  When Janessa gets involved with him, her life alters in ways she never expected, and she's forced to see who Dvont really is.<br />I think what drew me into The Heat Seekers is its tone.  It's serious.  More serious than any of Zane's past works.  This novel deals with abortion, unplanned pregnancies, suicide, the \\"ghetto\\" lifestyle, love, lies, and just plain ol' life.  I could not put the book down.  Tempest, by far my fave character, drew me intothe story, and I was eager to wrap up the novel and see what would happen to everyone.<br />I think a lot of readers might be surprised not to see such an abundance of sex as Zane has had in previous novels, but the sexual scenes and innuendoes in this novel are tastefully done and drew me in just as much as any full blown, graphically detailed scene could.  There's something to be said for giving a peek and allowing someone to imagine the rest.<br />In the end, I was extremely happy to see another facet to the writing of Zane.  I hope to see more of this serious, deeper side in her future writings.  I think the reason I didn't give this novel a 5 star is because there are still remnants of that Zane we know and love from her previous works.  This novel has midgets and other off the wall, 'no you didn't go there' situations.  I wanted a full departure, but instead, I received a 3/4 departure, and for me, that was enough.<br />I'm eager to see what twist in the literary road, Zane will put forth next.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-06-19
US	36302055	R25GS3LM03WABJ	0967930308	445543244	The African American Pre-Law School Advice Guide: Things You Really Need to Know Before Applying to Law School	Books	5	5	5	N	N	VERY thorough book on what a student NEEDS to know about law	Evangeline M. Mitchell knows her stuff.  She's a graduate of the University of Iowa College of Law and the Harvard University Graduate School of Education, and now she offers her insight and in-depth research to millions of African American students who wish to pursue law in higher education.<br />This 399-paged reference guide is a must-have for students interesting in going to law school.  Mitchell provides expansive information and knowledge on topics that are pulled into 20 chapters, such as:<br />1.  Do you really want to go to law school?<br />2.  Affirmative Action<br />3.  Things you can do to enhance your application and make yourself a more attractive admissions candidate<br />4.  The Law School Admission Test (LSAT)<br />5.  Choosing a law school<br />6.  Financial aid and money matters<br />Mitchell also offers several appendices with topics like pre-law resources, sample letters, profiles of historically black law schools, application organizer, and law school listings, among others.<br />The African American Pre-Law School Advice Guide is a resource that law school-minded students shouldn't be without.  Everything you ever wanted to know about law school, but was afraid to research is here.  I commend Mitchell for doing all this work to help aspiring black lawyers prepare for the grueling task of attending law school.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-06-02
US	36302055	R1TKYCHZ3KBYN3	0375757104	190902208	Rich Minds, Rich Rewards: 52 Ways to Enhance, Enrich, and Empower Your Life (Strivers Row)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book will make you RICH in empowerment	To anyone looking for an inspirational book that discusses how to empower your life, Valorie Burton's &quot;Rich Minds, Rich Rewards,&quot; is the book for you.<br />The book is divided into mini chapters like Count Your Blessings, Change Your Ways to Change Your Life, Listen to Your Inner Voice, Create Your Mission Statement, Write Down Your Goals, and many more.<br />Each mini chapter is like a talk with Burton, her self.  She gets personal with examples and illustrations that lets the reader know that she is not alone, that someone has made the changes to their life, and she can too.  Excersises such as the Daily Blessing book, mission statement, and vision statment help you to put your wants and desires and positive traits onto paper, so that you can begin to utilize the good things in your life and benefit from them.<br />I definitely plan to start a blessing book and use the suggestions that Burton's little, yet powerful book entails.  Be the best person you can be, to yourself and others, and purchase this book today.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-06-02
