US	36407398	RW9NVJSRK1XM4	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Church Espionage	This is an intriguing romp through Catholic history that held my interest all the way to where Langdon leaps out of a plane with a tarp and lives, landing in the Tiber River and even that didn't hold him down for long. Give me a break. The book is long and during the time I actually read the Da Vinci Code for a respite. They're similar and I suspect there will be more from the rich Masonic legends with more of the Illuminati lore. The rich detail is a Brown trademark now. I don't know where he gets it from via sources but it's well-presented.<br /><br />Well I know where he gets some of it and am amazed that the Camerlengo is revealed to be the pope's child after he kills his father unknowingly, and then he dies in flames by his own choice. I've read that before in another novel: Daughter of God. It's identical and the book came out in 1999 a year before Brown's. It's clear to me what happened. Lewis Perdue's three books on this subject were mined heavily to produce this one and DaVinci Code. One can only hope that justice will be rendered here as this clearly crosses the line.	2005-05-03
US	36407398	R2YIA9P9PCU2H8	0765349671	39666025	The Da Vinci Legacy	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Original DaVinci Thriller	I would have preferred the original character of Curtis Davis been kept but that was an editorial decision. The book is fast-paced with a great number of shoot outs. The goal and object of the codex is a partical beam weapon and the object of Reagan's star wars missile defense proposal, so this isn't a claim to religious artifacts. Da Vinci was so prolific in so many fields with a myriad of ideas and inventions that almost anything can be attributed to his works. Pick a subject.<br /><br />This was a good thriller in 1983 and still is. But Legacy is not the \\"Da Vinci Code\\" even if the \\"Daughter of God\\" is determined to be.	2005-05-02
US	36407398	REZZ6GG1H3HHH	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	12	36	N	N	Who Owns the Code?	First I thought the novel was well-executed and this is helped by the short viginette chapters. The wall paper of Europe and religious history is a nice decoration but the focus is on the myth. And that is all this is. Ther claim of truth at the beginning is misinterpreted in my view. The paintings are real as are the locations. The entities are real but in the case of the Priory of Sion is a debunked sham. Making it real for the novel is allowed though.<br /><br />The problem is that this was already written in two other novels and all of the themes are indentical in the two books. Enough was changed to make the claim of originality in the form of character names and the title of the main thesis: Jesus married Mary Magdalene and they have descendants protecting her bones and legacy. From the looks of things and the attention this is the only declaration that separates the books in question. This one and \\"Daughter of God.\\"<br /><br />Is that enough? Who knows?	2005-05-02
US	36407398	R2JBRPLZ6JEJO6	0312205295	6802791	Down in Bristol Bay: High Tides, Hangovers, and Harrowing Experiences on Alaska's Last Frontier	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Pass the Aspirin	While this is a better book that the second one, there is still something lacking. Depth I suppose. The fishing stories are good but I'm afraid the actual techniques and day-to-day trials are glossed over with tales of drunkeness. The characters are accurately portrayed, but each year is a rerun of the last, a quick summary of the same. Frankly, for all of Durr's qualifications this is the one theme that I can't help but think carries on to this day: The acid Leary professor drops out and stays out. But life is what happens between the parties. During this period, at least I know how he made a living, which is what dismayed me with the Coldman Cometh: thirty-five years of successful bush living on imaginary income, from the readers' perspective. He doesn't share finances here either though so we don't know what he made from the fishing trips.<br /><br />Staying in Alaska without money is tough. And with a family to support even more impossible, yet Durr seems to go about it as if there's nothing to it; the path of least resistence he describes to Pope, but in Alaska there is a great deal of resistence always. I can hear him try to justify the scheme to his late wife who never says anything or gives him a hard time about the difficulties of living on the edge like that, but Durr rarely reveals anything of this nature. He's very much secretive, which is a motivating force for the retreat to Chase and Back-Lake. I found the Durrs to be stand-offish in 1976, suspicious of newcomers to the land, even fellow \\"hippie\\" brothers. This may be due to personal paranoia and the more-people-coming fear, which is the message I got. As it turns out Durr managed to outlast the other '70s settlers in Chase of which I was one, albeit briefly. That evidently was what he wanted in the first place.	2005-04-17
US	36407398	R2QKQZ4GS7WRF0	0312311796	890953832	The Coldman Cometh: A Family's Adventure in the Alaska Bush	Books	3	27	36	N	N	Cold Fish	Is the memoir of Dr. Robert \\"Jungle Bob\\" Durr who I ran into in 1976 at Chase Alaska on a homesteading mission for a neighboring landowner, or lease holder from the 1968 open to entry land program. I was too late for that myself, but Durr, already roaming the country since 1963 was well-positioned to acquire this land at Back Lake. I never saw his lake as the Durrs were snobbish to anyone who dared venture into their territory and we, just like #1 son Steve had it turns out, inhabited the cabin near the tracks at the invitation of Rick La Francis when we weren't living at the greenhouse on Nita Kaufman's property.<br /><br />It's a strange place. Very cliquish. My book \\"Alaska Tales\\" has more of this and the lead chapter is online, but Durr rambles here; prone to literary cliches and superficial skimming of the difficulties faced in building his place and even more important, acquiring the money to stay there and buy the new Arctic Cats I saw him driving during my brief winter stay in Chase.<br /><br />\\"I don't know where the money came from,\\" he writes concerning his first chainsaw. Really? I sure would, and do vividly. Of course in those days most including myself were stoners, but still, what this book lacks is the day to day struggle to get supplies and pay for them. Does he intend to just hang out on a biologically dead lake(the one detail I enjoyed hearing: no feeder streams due to an earthquake) until the end? What about the last thirty years? The New York literary world was just waiting with open arms because of his former literary professorship at Syracuse? Did he ever use his Ph.D to get work locally teaching or whatnot? And how do sons Stevie and Jon, two scruffy marginal local musicians at the time make it there? The other people I met grew dope and sold it. I may not agree with that per se, but at least I get the idea of how they buy snowmachines and Banjos. Frankly I don't know what the hell the Durrs do and neither will anyone else who reads this book from the looks of what I can see in the text.of what I can see in the text.	2005-04-10
US	36407398	R3KSZ8XS64EHBV	0812589718	349337506	Daughter of God	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Treasure Hunt	This is a fine thriller, well-written and interesting all the way through. While I read it with interest stemming from the flack over the Da Vinci Code I found it to be a completely different angle on an age-old story: the myths of the Christian church, intertwined with Nazi confescation of artwork and you have a winning formula. I'd never heard of the Sophia female messiah story before, but the archetype is familiar. Though coming out and declaring her to be Mary Magdalene with offspring from Jesus is left to Brown's rendition with the resulting flack one can expect.<br /><br />To Perdue it's symbolic and the antithesis to the patriarchal Catholic bureacracy built from Constantine to the present day. Of course the so-dubbed Pagan concept of the female Mother Earth as the beginning and end of all things here on the planet is even older. As old as humanity itself, but Homo sapiens are funny. When they get used to things a certain way they hang tough, myth or not. To me this was just a great Nazi treasure hunt crafted masterfully with church dogma.<br /><br />That's enough for me. The key to the secret vault with a painting is one thing. The key to the universe is another mystery entirely that even the best of stories still doesn't cover.	2005-03-29
US	36407398	R3JRADZNAPZ8TS	0446604666	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Comedic Crown Jewel	What a talent Carl is. These characters are outandish charicatures of respected citizens in our culture that shouldn't be. The message: modern pirates are ruining the country, natural environment, and our way of life out of pure greed. What better way to fight back than a lovable ecoterrorist and an an exiled road-kill eating ex-governor. Man o man what a cast. As a biologist myelf I wasn't happy to see that character bulldozed under but I suppose it's symbolic of the way scientists in the know are snowed by crooks and politicians every day. Notice I said both as they don't have to be one and the same.<br /><br />That's another lesson.	2005-03-29
US	36407398	R363IGSRY1HCPU	044661193X	628573598	Basket Case	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Newspaperman's Revenge	Jack Taggert is always in the doghouse. This is the plight I'd be in if I could get a paper to hire me in the first place: in trouble, and demoted. Hiaasen, a veteran columnist and investigative reporter with a journalism degree from the U. of Florida should know. He's been there done that.<br /><br />His columns are great and his books even better without the restrictions of the corporate news media fifedom. Each one seems to get better and each has a new cast equally outlandish funny and believable. There are business insights here that ring true to me, a biologist with a recent J-degree. There's more here than just great entertainment. It's a window into a world that is real and unknown to those on the other side of the page.	2005-03-29
US	36407398	R3MG23PL8O0GFF	1570610614	788422437	Way Out Here: Modern Life in Ice-Age Alaska	Books	3	3	3	N	N	No Sequel This	I breezed through this in an afternoon, but alas found nothing I was looking for after enjoying the first book. Since I wrote a book (Alaska Tales 2001) about my numerous excursions to Alaska over the same period albeit earlier than Leo (1976) to the same area around Talkeetna and points north including the Brooks Range, I really expected more insight and journalistic inquiry in to the area and the people. Some of them I'm sure I remember, but none are recognized here.<br /><br />I mean how many times can one describe the trail in and out of the cabin? This descriptive quickly turned circular from snow to flood to bugs to freeze-up and again. Even the trips away from the homestead are nothing more than brief summaries.<br /><br />I wanted to know about his new wife, first son Janus, first wife Melissa, and how in the hell does he scrape together the few thousand dollars to live there, still? Certainy not from these books. What? I'm afraid there just isn't enough going on to chronicle in the limited field of vision from the ridge above Petersville road. There could be if Leo paid more visits to his neighbors and read some John McPhee as a primer. That's how it's done. This clearly isn't.	2005-03-27
US	36407398	R15UBJ1FR5FR7N	0805015752	696590484	Edges of the Earth: A Man, a Woman, a Child in the Alaskan Wilderness	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A Good Chronicle	Since I did the same thing as Leo, twice, I was very interested in his story. I left Alaska in 1981 after the last disatrous attempt at wilderness living without money on the Dietrich River of the Brooks Range near Wiseman. I like the memoir genre and this one kept me reading. It wasn't surprising to find the relationship trouble and I can indentify completely, only my situation was reversed from Leo's dilemma. It was the woman that was more suited to the impoversihed end of the road existance than I no matter how appealing I found it philosophically. Three years without electicity was enough for me. My girlfriend stayed on 10 years in a different cabin in the Brooks after I abandoned the effort, or it me, as it were.<br /><br />I kept saying to myself as I read Edges, \\"this girl isn't going to make it there.\\" So I wouldn't call it a surprise ending. Frankly, I'm amazed she went in the first place. Even more that Melissa stayed in Talkeetna. His obcession with that particular house site leaves me wondering \\"why that spot?\\", but that's a personal thing.<br /><br />Since I lived in Chase up the tracks I wanted to hear his impressions of the folks I met in 1976, but possibly many left, like the Bentleys, Husteds, but not so the Robert Durr family of back lake, the anonymous \\"professor\\" here. Durr just published his two memoirs as well so I suspect these details are filled in there. Same with the economics: will the cab driving go on indefinitely? What about the future?<br /><br />All in all a decent effort.	2005-03-27
US	36407398	R84G4KZG99V4A	1559502363	122850636	Rancho Costa Nada: The Dirt Cheap Desert Homestead	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The real 'Outside' story	Phil Garlington, California's answer to Hunter S. Thompson has given us a real gift in this frank, funny and brutally honest how-to-memoir. Destined to be a cult classic with exiled would be back-to-the-landers wherever they may be, 'Rancho Costa Nada' shows, not tells how anyone fed up with modern society can chuck it all and still keep some of the small comforts that most folks run the treadmill to have on a daily basis. It's trade off: Freedom or indentured crawl-on-your-belly servitude and many of the more free-spirited can't stand. I'm one of them, and always have been. Like Garlington in his early years, I left for the wilds of Alaska, chronicled in 'Alaska Tales.' The cold reality of that life makes a desert sojourn a good choice for one's later years. In the irreverant style reminiscent of Edward Abbey this author splits our sides with hilarious interviews profiling colorful folks the mainstream has left behind. Phil's ingenuity cobbling together the hogan and amenities is truely inspiring for those on a limited budget. I first became aware of Garlington from the 'Propwash Chronicle' in the anthology 'Out of the Noosphere' from the editors of Outside Magazine, one of the funniest stories I've ever read. Hopefully we'll get an anthology of more of the travels of Phil Garlington.<br /><br />Also recommended: Aces and Eights	2005-02-26
US	36407398	ROQ389PA0JPVJ	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	1	3	9	N	N	Unfit For Publication	I just watched O'Neill's performance on the Dick Cavett Show with John Kerry in 1971 the year I graduated high school with alarm at his defiant rudeness and continued illogical attack on not only Kerry, but even Cavett. This attack-dog zealot has one view and that is this: John Kerry degraded the mythical heroic mission that he and other veterans \\"felt\\" they were on.<br /><br />\\"We're for freedom,\\" he said.<br /><br />Hmm? Where have I heard that one lately?<br /><br />Since O'Neill, who comes from a multi-generational Naval family served after John Kerry, how in the name of reason can he know what went on in the river patrols that Kerry commanded?<br /><br />Moreover, how can he disparage those who served and were rescued by John Kerry who WERE on his swiftboat? This is a clear case of a pro-war veteran against one who decided the policy was unjust and chose to work to end it. There isn't one piece of logic within the covers of \\"Unfit For Command.\\" I don't doubt the conviction they have, but it is unfounded and faith based. They believe Kerry was against them, which he wasn't and they believe he was and is anti-American. He isn't. \\"Some believe 'my country right or wrong,'\\" Kerry said. \\"I believe 'my country right,' I'm with you, but 'my country wrong' it's my job to point that out and work to set it right.\\"<br /><br />Given the lack of evidence for his position O'Neill, who needed help from Mr. Corsi to write this for what reason? PR? Hell if I know. O'Neill and his minions use ad hominem to make their case. \\"The purple heart is the most coveted award by veterans and their families\\" he says in chapter 3. \\"The Purple Heart Hunter.\\"<br /><br />Hogwash. As the son of a Silver Star recipient from the Battle of the Bulge I beg to differ. Silver Stars are THE medal of valor next to the Medal of Honor. All the PH does is say you were wounded in some way. My own father said he was awarded one that he turned down because a concussion caused him to vomit blood temporarily, and he didn't want his mother to know and worry needlessly. Kerry was wounded three times in the river skirmishes and this is enough to warrant the three PH's. Why libel him in this failed effort to discredit his service?<br /><br />O'Neill has no purple hearts or Silver Stars to my knowledge. His argument lacks credibility and is an embarassment to the country and our forefathers. O'Neill should be the one who is ashamed, not John Kerry, who has my respect on a number of levels and my vote. He earned it.od temporarily, and he didn't want his mother to know and worry needlessly. Kerry was wounded three times in the river skirmishes and this is enough to warrant the three PH's. Why libel him in this failed effort to discredit his service?  <br /> <br />O'Neill has no purple hearts or Silver Stars to my knowledge. His argument lacks credibility and is an embarassment to the country and our forefathers. O'Neill should be the one who is ashamed, not John Kerry, who has my respect on a number of levels and my vote. He earned it.  <br />	2004-08-16
US	36407398	R28ZNYQB86QV8H	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	5	47	114	N	N	A Good Man; a Great President	Since I first met Bill Clinton in a campaign rally in Spokane Washington in 1992, I was optimistic that he could lead us out of the dark ages of the previous administrations. Once elected, he unabashedly implemented policies that I suported and in some cases referred to him, particularly in the area of forest policy which as a federal fish biologist is an area I have expertise in. He agreed with me and always responded personally in writing. I miss having that kind of connection with the most powerful man on Earth. Oh how I do. When the battle seemed impossible he offered encouragement. This is a rare thing in politics.<br />The opening of \\"My Life\\" is that kind of personal conversational dialogue just like I found in his letters. It drew me in. As a writer myself, I know how important that aspect is. As I have told him myself, the idea that a poor man can rise from poverty to president is what America is about. While everyone comes to this world with flaws, some are bigger than others. Flaws of public ethical consideration carry more weight than those in the personal arena. Greatness in American leaders is measured \\"warts and all\\" of all holders of the office. The accomplishments of Bill Clinton should stand the test of time and review.	2004-06-22
US	36407398	R3PIZQN2WLRFAX	0812968123	592904146	2182 Kilohertz: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Ice Shattering	Mr. Masiel tells a riveting story of life in the arctic oilfields from the POV of the Tug-and-barge maritime service crews that deliver the supplies to the operation of Prudhoe Bay and beyond. This is a previously untold story of a perilous line of work in an area that is very much in the news today as it was a decade ago when opening up drilling in the Arctic Wildlife Refuge first took center stage in the energy debate. Masiel paints a dim picture of life in the arctic, as it is. I worked there myself in Kaktovik as a biologist, but I was in far less danger the characters in this novel were on a daily basis.<br />Vividly described, this is a must read for anyone who wants to understand what working in the arctic is really like.	2004-04-23
US	36407398	RHERNQNVW2T0G	1893554732	996732934	Mexifornia: A State of Becoming	Books	4	11	20	N	N	Immigration Rational	I admit to reading only one chapter at the publisher's website, but as a Californian for many years, although not native to this region I am one of the more liberal-minded who meet Mr. Hansen in the middle to assess this ecological problem. And make no mistake about it, it is just that. No amount of cultural relativism or nativist ranting will solve it. Only meaningful dialogue that leads ultimately to, as Hansen concludes, a return to controlled assimilation in the melting pot, not the diametrical mosaic we have now. Only then will all of us in the lifeboat find a sustainable future. We don't have that now.	2003-09-28
US	36407398	R1PSAWIZMCQJ1P	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	6	12	N	N	Crimes Against Reason	Coulter is the current mistress of political theatre and given much more respect and air time by the so-called liberal media than she deserves. Like most conservatives, she lacks critical thinking skills, a necessary factor for those who share this skewed, faith-based school of thought. Moreover, accusing Democrats as being treasonous i.e. aiding and abetting a foreign enemy by proxy, borders on libel. Truman, a traitor?With an inuenedo-based thesis Coulter resurects Joseph McCarthy as a fair-minded patriot trying to rid the nation of infidels lest free thought be allowed corrupt the system. By blindly accusing all of those with opposing views as enemies waiting in the wings for a communist totalitarian takeover, apparently led by Hollywood entertainment writers, Treason takes paranoia to an all time high and reason to a new sub-basement level. A quick scan of the news today would support the need for the latter. This work should be listed under fiction.	2003-08-27
US	36407398	R46HIA9WNUO88	0471332097	358684552	John Hancock: Merchant King and American Patriot	Books	5	3	14	N	N	New England Giant	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. My own ancestor Major Reuben Colburn, a patriot from Pittston, Maine was a close friend and business associate of Hancock. While his Maine dealings are only mentioned in passing by Mr. Unger, his research is impeccable and after all the story is, and has to be, told from Hancock's point of view. This is what he was doing during the formulation of our country in legal form. It was surprisingly anti-Adams but I believe this is normal in competition for fame, ideas and recognition both then and now.<br />General Washington and Benedict Arnold employed Colburn to supply and lead a 1100-man army to capture Quebec City in 1775. The mission failed and Colburn was stuck with the bill. He died broke as did Hancock. John Hancock was beloved in New England and Unger portays this with great accuracy and flair. He was big in our family, staying at Colburn House when in Maine seeing to his landholdings. One of Colburn's few surviving letters is addressed to Hancock from Pittston in 1786.<br />Hopefully my new book \\"Patriot On The Kennebec: Major Reuben Colburn and the March To Quebec 1775: His Life and Times,\\" will join this one on a new mission to educate the public about our collective roots as Americans. Both men risked everything to start America, and to them we owe everything.	2003-08-15
US	36407398	R739HZ2KWYUHM	0374104441	513130379	The Founding Fish	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Founding Fish by the Founding Father of The Narrative	Another excellent effort by John McPhee who chronicles science like no other can. I have been reading McPhee since \\"Coming Into The Country\\" in 1976, which prompted me to go there as fast as I could. At a cafe up there I ran into one of his real characters who spoke well of the writer, although not all did. It became the first chapter of my book \\"Alaska Tales,\\" where I attempted to cast light on the same obscure figures as this great teacher. It is something to aspire to over the years, not overnight. This effort is a classic. A fish biography, for me a sometimes fish biologist like many of those he consults and profiles in the story, there is no better idea for a subject in today's world of myth and deception. This is how the truth is told by the master of the craft. The historical anecdotes interwoven with a current era canoe trip is the perfect marriage of the ages. McPhee imagines the men of the Arnold expedition led by my Great....grandfather Major Reuben Colburn at a particular eddy in the Kennebec River of my home state of Maine in an exquisite remanisence. That spot in time is the the focus of my latest story \\"Patriot On The Kennebec,\\" but it is an honor for Mr. McPhee to notice this passed over history. The shad were important to our country's founding. Now maybe more will notice and help to restore America's rivers to their once mighty bounty.	2003-06-21
US	36407398	R2DI0B4R0TU2GJ	0395717590	810027955	The Lost Grizzlies: A Search for Survivors in the Colorado Wilderness	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Defining	I thoroughly enjoyed this tale of the trail, but as science it dosen't bother to include any. Only the fact that standard conservation biology principles are ridiculed. Unfortunately this population of Ursus arctos horribilus is all but gone. They are at California Condor levels if present at all. They see one bear, but what of the DNA analysis? Bass does not tell us here. Bass's bear is more a vision than a reality.<br />The crowd of Earth First!ers from Tuscon and points north represented by the volatile-tempered Doug Peacock, that has allowed Rick Bass to join is a select band of outlaw literary types, that worship the wild and lament its demise. I share this sadness and want to prevent it myself, but my twelve years working as a fish and wildlife biologist did little to encourage me that this is possible. By aligning himself only with outlaw radicals whose personal behavior screams \\"left-wing enviro-nut\\" these noble ideas will be hard to sell by these messengers. Only with mainstream acceptance will change occur.<br />In Bass's home territory of Yaak, Montana this will be a hard sell. Libby is a devastated lumber town where I once worked for the U.S. Forest Service. I was so discouraged that I quit early and left town never to return. Bass runs with a select clique who live in Livingston, Montana a sort of \\"Hollywood North\\" of rich and famous actors and artists the likes of Peter Fonda, Tom McGuane, Dennis Quaid, the brothers Bridges, an endless list. But it's the outlaws like Dave Forman the founder of Earth First!that run the underground sects of the environmental movement, and they have a terrorist thesis; \\"Monkeywrenchers\\" as Ed Abby envisioned. Peacock is the model although he does not actually commit vandalism acts himself. They don't accept newcomers into their ranks easily; particularly impoverished writers from the \\"sticks.\\"<br />I wrote Mr. Bass once of my efforts chronicled in my first book \\"Against A Strong Current,\\" on these conservation matters and received no reply. Acceptance by this group is not my goal but credit is difficult to get, even if one has extensive credentials and a government work record that takes place on scene as part of the in house system working for the same change. It is easy to be upstaged by amateurs. Bass seeks to sell romance sans the \\"Guzzi\\" consumerish trappings. This work is a success at that, but it is not in any sense, biology.and received no reply. Acceptance by this group is not my goal but credit is difficult to get, even if one has extensive credentials and a government work record that takes place on scene as part of the in house system working for the same change. It is easy to be upstaged by amateurs. Bass seeks to sell romance sans the \\"Guzzi\\" consumerish trappings. This work is a success at that, but it is not in any sense, biology.	2003-02-05
US	36407398	R3KV4X68THVL72	1585745456	998217565	The Roadless Yaak: Reflections and Observations About One of Our Last Great Wilderness Areas	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Forever Yaak?	One of my experiences as a biologist for the U.S. Forest Service was a brief stint in Libby, Montana where I was a weekend visitor to the remote Yaak Valley championed by resident conservationist Rick Bass. My first pass through the valley was a shock. The sea of clearcuts from past timber sales were clearly alarming, and I vowed to return for further investigation. In 1994 I studied fish populations in the Libby area now, and then, a superfund site at the plywood mill where we installed a fish weir in an attempt locate the last remaining Bull trout, now an endangered species in the Pacific Northwest. The previous year there were two. In 1994 none returned to the Libby trap. Similar conditions exist on the Yaak River, a major tributary to the Kootenai. Though superficially &quot;wild&quot; in outward apearance this is devastated landscape due to economic activity that has ruined the landscape and the citizenry from asbestosis at the other superfund site, a vermiculite mine once operated by W.R. Grace Corporation of &quot;A Civil Action&quot; fame. They are gone now, but so is everything else the area once offered. &quot;We don't mind looking at the clearcuts,&quot; my boss a dour wildlife biologist told me. It is a legacy that Mr. Bass will be hard pressed to reverse with the current forest management leadership. But we must try. I stand with him in that battle. The chapter in my book &quot;Against a Strong Current,&quot; is called &quot;Three Bull Trout.&quot;	2003-01-19
US	36407398	R2ZETCAXW1IEVL	0375708731	819615677	Burr: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	History sans accountability	I loved this book but alas, I am in the midst of writing a real work of history about the march to Quebec in 1775 that requires documentation of primary sources for any allegations made by the writer. Vidal avoids this tediousness, and I see why. He says as much in his afterward. As a satirical work of historical art this account has no peer and the detail of his research is self-evident, and I fully understand I'm writing about a legend in literature. As for the real story, I'm headed for the history section of the L.A. Public Library to read the &quot;Private Journal of Aaron Burr.&quot; No offense, Mr. Vidal, but I need to hear from it from the &quot;horse's mouth.&quot;	2002-11-02
US	36407398	RPLQ27DLWT00I	0375760911	535819181	The Idiot Girls' Action-Adventure Club: True Tales from a Magnificent and Clumsy Life	Books	2	6	27	N	N	Misadventures in Gender-World	I'd say one would have actually be an \\"idiot girl\\" to appreciate this work. After several pages of the excerpt not only had I no idea where I as a reader was going, but couldn't tell where I'd been, or why. Ms. Notaro recently gained notoriety as my fellow iUniverse author, the only successful one to make the \\"big time.\\" One can't imagine how or why, but she does have journalism training and a prestigious job with the Arizona Republic. All of these feats are signs of our times; a trend that anything a woman does these days translates into success, but unfortunately without much merit. This is a book about nothing; rumaging through the trash on a 114 degree day for what, no one but Ms. Notaro knows. I sure didn't. There is no denying the market is real. The country is chock full of hordes of overwieght Rosie O'Donnell types with much less to offer in the way of talent, and a lust for everything they can't obtain because of their own personal shortcomings, but with a simpathetic system that welcomes any effort they make on a different scale from anything a man would face. A voice that revels in this wallowing at the bottom of life's struggle is made to order. Unfortunately this is what passes for scholarship in publishing. Serious work on real subject matter is frequently dismissed in favor of this kind of public inanity. Not only is it not funny, it celebrates stumbling ignorance, and insults deserving women authors like Linda Greenlaw, (The Lobster Chronicles), whose work reflects real accomplishment.	2002-10-17
US	36407398	R3P0A1X6KM8C1C	0395944171	543646566	Snobbery: The American Version	Books	1	7	16	N	N	Elitist Condescention	It's hard to believe an author who makes his living as a professor could find such light fare as subject matter. Perhaps it's because Mr. Epstein is just like those normal people who think they \\"have a book in them,\\" as he writes in the New York Times in an OP-Ed, \\"but don't.\\" Writing professors can't make a living from their work so they stay in school and are eventually hired to critique students; an environment that is bound to make one \\"smug\\" with a superiority complex. It's a safe cubicle compared to the real world outside of the University walls.<br />Journalism professors I have known who have never written books love to berate \\"first person\\" stories from what they believe are amateurs and imposters. The implication is what could a normal person have done in life that is worth telling in a book? In some cases nothing, but it depends on the individual and the subject matter their lives have dealt with. Frequently, the snobbish literary publishing and media world go for the shallow while ignoring the relavant and deep. \\"Noisy waters run shallow,\\" it has been said, and sometimes shallow is what sells at the expense of the deserving real scholarship, that lacks the marketing comsideration to reach an audience. Mr. Epstein is nothing more than a frustrated stand-up comic with media connections. That has nothing to do with talent, or message.	2002-09-28
US	36407398	R2E3XOG1AOO7JA	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The American voice of History	McCullough is a master of the historical narrative, both as narrator in film and more so in his grand-scale print biographies. His voice is authoritative and distinct in both mediums. If he says it, that is where the &quot;buck stops.&quot; Adams was a primary architect of the American experiment, and differed with Jefferson in many ways based on philosophy; technique mostly. David McCullough takes us on the road from revolution to republic in an epic journey. The story of our country is as great a tale as ever unfolded and this work should cement that back into the collective American character as never before. We must never forget where we come from. Or where we are going.	2002-09-25
US	36407398	R1ESP9OEC48HNQ	0814756468	221805635	Benedict Arnold, Revolutionary Hero: An American Warrior Reconsidered	Books	5	5	10	N	N	The Real Story of America	Martin is the foremost authority on this period in our history. He also manages to be the only historian I have read yet that handled the Arnold Expedition to Quebec with the accuracy and depth it deserves. Martin speaks of my grandfather Major Reuben Colburn with fairness and awards him the credit for his efforts in supplying, leading and maintaining the mission denied him by historians through the ages. Many merely used Colburn as a scapegoat for the failure of the effort, but not Martin. His research revealed the truth as such an effort so often does should an author choose that path, and I applaud him for it. He has also backed me in my effort to convince the National Park Service to grant Colburn House in Pittston, Maine &quot;Landmark&quot; status. Jim Martin is an ally I value greatly, and a man who knows what he is talking about.	2002-09-23
US	36407398	R3E494N6FQQY	0892723645	748291242	Arundel	Books	5	2	5	N	N	My Family Story	Arundel is a masterpiece of historical writing. As the grandson of one of the \\"real\\" characters in the story, Major Reuben Colburn of Pittston, Maine I appreciate the tale as no other could. Enough so, that I am writing a biography of Colburn at present and have nominated Colburn House as a National Historic Landmark. Roberts puts a Southern Maine spin on the true story, and I have points where I disgree with his interpretation but it's as good as it gets for fiction. To answer the first reviewers question about why this was never made into a movie, I have written a screenplay based on our family story of the Arnold Expedition. As of yet Hollywood is not interested. We'll see, but don't expect Steven Nason or Cap Huff to be in there. The real patriots are better, still.	2002-09-23
US	36407398	R13L2CVEMVG7G1	1557100349	474600971	Benedict Arnold: Patriot and Traitor	Books	2	9	38	N	N	Libeling History	Mr. Randall does history a great diservice in his flawed and shallow interpretation of the march to Quebec in 1775. He resorts to rumor-mongoring in the handling of the local Maine heros involved with the mission. Particularly concerning Major Reuben Colburn who organized the expedition and built the 220 bateaux in under two weeks time. I am the grandson of Colburn and writing a biography of his life. Randall openly accuses him of fraudulent, selfish behavior in providing these services for his country. Even alleging Colburn knowingly passed up stores of dried lumber in Falmouth on his way home to Pittston to save money by substituting his own green pine which was heavy and later opened up during the river journey under the abuse of inexperienced boatmen and the grinding of a shallow stream. These charges are false, but then Randall couldn't even get the mapmaker Samuel Goodwin's name correct, calling him \\"Goodrich,\\" perhaps confusing him with Capt. Goodrich one of the company commanders on the march; except to suggest that his maps, requested from him by Colburn were purposely misleading, because of Goodwin's Tory leanings. The leanings were true, but the maps were as accurate as could be found at the time. Besides, Arnold used the outdated version of Montressor's anyway, but it allows the author to lay further blame on Colburn, which appears to be his thesis. Colburn was never paid for the bateaux and supplies; he only received 26 pounds from Washington, and traveled with the expedition repairing the bateaux as they went, without fear of repercussions from the ragtag army struggling against the stream. Some bateaux made it all the way to Quebec but you won't learn that from this book. I recommend James Kirby Martin for a reasoned handling of this chapter in Arnold's life.	2002-06-21
US	36407398	R2W3LTPC9YOOK	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	2	9	14	N	N	Skeptical of Lomborg	The second star is for the negative impact this book has had on the whole issue of environment and conservation. It is widely applauded in many conservative camps including the editorial page of the Wall Street Journal who are always looking for a leftist enviro-conspiracy, and permission to ignore scientists' warnings on global warming, deforestation, and endangered species to overpopulation. What lomborg proceeds to do is mathematically manipulate the facts to make them all magically disappear. Call David Blaine for this illusion is in his realm, not science.<br />A statistician and a professor of political science Lomborg isn't even qualified to have an educated opinion about the subject matter he tackles. I have had this argument with many of the untrained before. \\"We have more trees today than 100 years ago,\\" is a typical entry of this argument, a classic out of context blanket fact. Maybe we do, somewhere, but in what form? A lot of small tree farm-like sticks that make good kindling and increase forest fire risk. Lack of diverse old growth forests is the problem scientists are concerned with, but Lomborg doesn't even address this. Why? Because he doesn't know enough to. To him and like-kind, a tree is a tree and a farm raised fish is as good as a wild fish. Why bother discussing genetics? Lomborg doesn't. As a scientist I could go on and on, it's not necessary. The worst part is that this book could set us back 100 years because it does what science cannot: fit the facts to the story and tell people what they want to hear.	2002-05-22
