US	36430688	RSSVOE66YZV31	0446532436	967980395	True Believer	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not my favorite, but read it for the beautiful writing...	I thought True Believer was a okay story, but the writing was just simply beautiful. True Believer is about Jermery Marsh, a investigative reporter from NYC who writes for the Scientific American and he get's a letter from this woman named Doris in North Carolina telling him about these mysterious lights in this old cementary, so he investigatives and he meets Lexie; the local librarian who has been burned in the past by a stranger who came up from Chicago and left, so when she first meets Jermery, she is cautious that he is only going to be here a week and he is going to leave, that is it. So as Jermery investigates though the rare-books he finds at the library, he gets to meet the people of Boone Creek; the town it takes place in. He is then given the key to the city and it is a local celebrity in the town. Eventually as he gets to know Lexie, he is slowly falling in love with her, but she is keeping her distance and sometimes cold in the relationship. So one day while at the library, Lexie is not there, and since he knows her a little more and where she goes, he finds her on an island where a lighthouse is; this is where Lexie's parents got married, but where killed in a car accident when Lexie was two, so she lived with her grandmother Doris. Jermery goes to the island and meets her there, and there they finally make love. From there, Jermery finds out where the lights come from; it comes from the local paper mill and the train tracks that past by there. This makes Jermery mad because he feels that he was lied to by the town and by Lexie, so he storms out of the library like there was no tomorrow. Lexie and Jermery had their first fight inside the library and the news gets around town. But in truth, Lexie actually loves Jermery and he does not want him to go back to NYC, but she makes a stupid move by telling Jermery that she is going to marry the local sheriff Rodney, so Jermery goes back to NYC and does film the lights but decides to leave out the paper mill and the trains. Then in NYC, Doris comes to NYC to talk to Jermery and to tell him the truth; Lexie loves Jermery, and Jermery loves her back. So he goes back to Boone Creek and decides to be with Lexie after all.  <br /> <br /> <br />The reason I gave this book four stars because I thought the writing was beautiful like Nicholas Sparks always does, but it lacked the emotion his other books have, and I thought Lexie was a cold and bitter person. If you are starting out with Nicholas Sparks, first read A Walk To Remember first, and work your way through his books, but read this later on.	2005-06-10
US	36430688	R2477FP3TZXJJS	0671023209	118279752	Transfer of Power	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Rivals the best of Clancy	I picked this up at the local library, and since I read Memorial Day and Seperation Of Power, I decided to give Vince Flynn another chance because I didn't care for Seperation of Power, but after reading Memorial Day, I knew I had to read more, so I picked up this book. Transfer Of Power is probably the BEST action book out there since Bob Mayer's Eye's Of The Hammer. The story takes place in D.C. of course, and terrorists find out a way to get into the White House; through a secret door that was used by J.F.K. to bring in Marilyon Monroe, the main terrorist is Aziz (sorry I can't spell his first name) take a sort-of dump truck and rams into the door, a firefight happens killing Secret Service members, and while President Hayes is so-called having a meeting with the Prince of Oman...but it is not the Prince of Oman, it is a terrorist posing as the Prince. President Hayes is then rushed to a bunker locking him and Secret Service members inside. Outside, everyone is gasped to see that terrorist invaded the White House and with 30 hostages, one of them being Anna Rielly; a reporter which was her first day at the White House as a White House Correspondent. Talk about a exciting first day. Then Mitch Rapp comes in, but Aziz wants demands met; one of them being UN sanctions on Iraq (this book was written before 9/11 and the invasion of Iraq and Saddam is still in power in this book) is one of their first demands. Eventually the demands are met thanks to the Vice President who is now holding Presidential powers since Aziz cut off communication throughout the White House, and the outside world thinks that President Hayes is one of the captives inside, but they don't know that he is safe. Mitch Rapp is watching everything inside the White House, and a first rescue with SEAL'S and Delta Force fails and they have to draw back and lick their wounds. Yet Mitch Rapp has a plan to get inside the white house, and he can only turn to one person that know's the in's and out's of theWhite House. He meet's one of the reinventors in his apartment and he has blue prints to every kunck and cranny in the White House. Eventually, Mitch and his friend are dropped into the White House through a air-vent, and one of the terrorist decides thta he is going to rape Anna Rielly, but Mitch kills him with his 9mm with a sliencer on it. Now Mitch, his friend, and Anna wait in a closet waiting for the next orders. Aziz then as another demand; to freeze billions of dollars on Iran and to transfer the money into a private account. Eventually he let's some hostages go. The main brass is getting tired of the Vice President because the generals want to go in there, and get this over once and for all, but the Vice President tells them that he will not risk American lives, so the generals wait in disguist. Now Mitch must try to find a way to get to the President, but Mitch finds out that the terrorist are trying to break down the bunker door with drills, and it is just a matter of time before they get to the President. Now in a bold move he then breaks the device that blocked the connection to the outside world, and President Hayes is back in business. Now President Hayes orders the raid to get back the White House, and success, but Aziz get's away...or so we think... <br /> <br />In Brazil, Mitch Rapp is there to kill Aziz, and finds his place and wipes him off of the earth. <br /> <br />This book I had to say was just plain amazing!!!! Vince Flynn does not waste a SINGLE page with this novel, and I can't wait for him to make more of his work this riviting. This book is a must	2005-02-25
US	36430688	RIMWCRBW967K4	0451187482	960178130	Dominion	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Bentley Little can take something simple...	and make a horror story out of it. When I read the back of the book, and have read The Association and The Summoning, I wanted more of Bentley Little, so picked up this tale. Dominion is about Dion Semele, a teen who moves with his mom April to Napa California from Arizona to start a new life, there he meets Penelope Daneam, a sort-of outcast girl who has a very unusual family; she lives with her mothers, and I mean mothers (she has seven mothers who own a winery). At school Dion meets Kevin, a smart-ass kid who makes fun of Penelope calling her a lesbian and other names. It is there that Dion starts to fall for Penelope, and since they have the same class; Greek Mythology to be more exact, and Dion is a wiz at it. Eventually, murders start to happen around Napa; people are getting chopped up and there are wine bottles around the murder scenes, but no clues for the police. Eventually, Dion goes to Penelope's house, he meets her mothers, and he notices that one of them are flirting with him, but he ignores it. Eventually, Penelope and Dion are dating and things are going well, until something happens... <br /> <br /> What happens is that everyone in town gets drunk off of Penelope's mother wine and it turns people crazy! They start killing other people and have sex with dead corpses and people they don't know, it is like a huge orgy of death and sex. It is there that Dion finds out that he is the human form of Dionsysus; the Greek God of Wine. He is then smothered in blood and wine and the Greek God is brought back to life. Penelope's mother is having sex with him and impregnates her mother with his seed. It is there that Kevin and Penelope try to get out of dodge, but the roads are blocked off by debris of burned-out cars and garbage, then out of the chaos they go to their mythology teacher's house and find out that he is part of a cult of some sort that kill the mythology god's that are brought back, so now he calls on other members of the cult to torch the wineryPenelope's mother has so that way it can dry out their supply and kill Dion for good. Eventually April (Dion's mother) comes back to her senses and brings Kevin and Penelope to Dionysus, and eventually kill him. At the end of the book, the government comes in and calls Napa a nuclear dump, and they promise to clean it all up. In the end, Kevin and Penelope get together as a couple and eventually marry.  <br /> <br /> <br />I have to say that book reaks of orginality, and kicks ass! Though the book takes sometime to get good, it is still a good read.	2004-12-27
US	36430688	R3PI521JYYY3EC	074348343X	388490440	Tommyland	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Definitely what I expected...	Tommyland, I thought was a kick ass book. You get to learn about Tommy Lee through his parents, his days in Montley, and his relationship with his former wife Pamela.  <br /> What makes this book good is the writing, and how he has his 'anaconda' come into the picture to share his comments in the book. Tommy Lee was born to a American father and a Greek mother, his mother didn't speak a word of English, but the love for each other was there, and when Tommy was growing up, he fell in love with music, and started to play the drums which then lead to him joining a band; Montley Crue to be more exact, and at the age of 17, he got a record deal, but he wanted to quit high school to pursue his career, but his father at least wanted him to get his High School Diploma and get more schooling just so that he could have something to fall back on if his career in music fails. Eventually, during high school, Tommy was a shy person, but he could get the ladies I can tell you that. In one chapter, he tells his readers how to do 'sexual' things with a woman, and advice. Tommy then talks about his times with Vince Neil; which in Tommy's word's was a 'straight a**hole.' Yet, he stayed in Montley because he loved what he was doing. Eventually as Tommy got older, he then met Pamela, had two boys which he describes as seeing something you created as 'one of the most moving experiences a person could ever have.' Eventually, stress from work caved in on their marriage, and they divorced. Now earlier in the book, Tommy marries Heather Lockeler which at that time in the 80's she had a rising career in the TV field; T.J. Hooker and Dyansty. But it ended when Tommy visited a porno suit with Ron Jermery and got 'oral pleasure' from one of the porn stars, eventually just a couple of hours later, Heather filed for divorce. As Tommy got older, things between Montley and his life got in the way, and he left the band after 20 years of kicking ass. He then created his own band called 'Method's of Mayhem' and came out with a CD. The CD was different from the other stuff he did with Montley, but he thought it was a good CD anyway. Tommy then tells his readers about his love for music, and so forth.  <br /> <br /> <br />The book is good and the writing is good also (though ghost written), and it would make a good present for a rocker like myself or a huge Montley fan.	2004-12-22
US	36430688	RAIQT6Y0KUUQV	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The life and times of the 80's...	Bret Easton Ellis, I thought did a GREAT job writing American Psycho. Yet some of the things in this novel are very graphic; the sex and the killing scenes. Yet, when Ellis was writing this novel, it took him a week to write the killing scenes. Bret also did some research on serial killers for the killing scenes that Pat Bateman does in the book. The book is pretty much like a diary, Pat Bateman is a successful Wall Street worker who is making lots of money, but Ellis refuses to say what Patrick really does, but all we know is that he works for P&P, and everyone he hangs out with, dresses the same (and Bateman painfully describes what they are wearing and what they are eating) and every paragraph starts out with 'I'm wearing an Aramani shirt with a Polo sweater, with cashmere gloves, and a Gucci suit.' kind of talk. Yet I suggest that you skip the first 100 pages because NOTHING happens during the first 100 pages of the book. Don't worry you are not missing anything. On one chapter, Ellis writes a 5 page paragraph describing Bateman's apartment. Yet Bateman spends his night either with hookers, or killing them with chainsaws, ripping out their arms, and having sex with their dead bodies. There are some funny parts that Ellis writes in there when he is describing the so-called 'hardbodies', oh Bateman and his friends are heavy coke users, and go out to clubs to try to pick up women, but yet the story does put out the issues of the 80's; the yuppies, MTV, Ronald Reagen, and the social deterating with homeless people and the poor being turned out on the street by the thousands.  <br /> American Psycho is very orignial, but yet very disturbing. Some of the violence scenes would make Scott Ian of Anthrax and Rob Zombie proud of Ellis because he describes the death scenes like you are right there. The book is rather well written, and definitely worth reading. Take my word for it.	2004-12-07
US	36430688	R2OWM2YO9NNMT	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The message is clear, but somethings dont quite make sense	The Coldest Winter Ever, I thougth about it when I first got my hands on it. I just finished it a couple of hours ago, and I have to say that the message is clear. Yet Winter seems in the book like she does not want to break away from the life she seemed customed to when she was first brought here in this world. The Coldest Winter Ever is about a 17 year old girl named Winter, her mother named her Winter because she was born on a cold winter in NYC. As Winter tells her tale, we learned that her father Ricky (but in the book he is constantly known as Santigio) is a dealer who takes his family out of the hood and into a upper-class neighborhood in Long Island, yet Winter is a spoiled woman and is very high maintenace when it comes to clothes and her looks. Yet, when a drug bust goes successful while Winter is out with friends, her father is sent to jail, and their house is ransacked; everything is taken, and now her mother and two sisters have nothing, and nowhere to go to. So now Winter tries to use her street smarts and tries to stay with family, but when her mother and her go to see a lawyer, they find out that they have no money because the man that was watching the money for Ricky, the police got them too, they got all of his henchmen except for Midnight who is slick and knows what is going on. So now, Winter's mother is getting sick, and is becoming a crack addict, her two sisters are in child protective services and are in a foster home. Eventually, when confronted, she is sent to a board and care called House Of Success. She then meets other girls, and tries to make their lives better with fixing their hair and such for money. She tries to run a game, but her girl Simone goes to jail while she is pregnant, and when she calls Winter, she ignores her because she wants $1500 to get out of jail. Winter does not give her the money, so now when Simone gets out, Winter is on her list of kicking her ass, so she goes to Sister Souljah and stays there for a little whileand meets big time rapper GS. Souljah knows GS personally, and Winter is going nuts for him. So when they go to a concert backstage, she is brought back to his house with other girls because he wants to have sex, so Winter is chosen out of 40 girls, but when she goes to bed with GS, she finds out that she was not sleeping with GS, it was one of his bodyguards and she is pregnant with his kid. Winter then gets an abortion, and tries to catch GS, but then she runs back with Bullet and set up a little drug game, but eventually is caught by her mother who is now a crack addict, and Simone. It was there that they arrest Winter and Bullet for possession of cocaine and a gun. So now, arrested and serving a 15 year prison sentence, she is counting down the guys until she gets out, but meets Midnight and her two sisters along with her father who is serving a 3 term life sentenance and was being in solitare lockdown because he killed two inmates. So it ends right there.  <br /> <br /> <br /> The reason I gave it four stars is that if Winter was so smart, why didn't she try to improve her life and get out of the drug game? Why didn't she try to improve her life and stay with Souljah until she could get on her feet? Though the book was good, whoever the editor was did a lousy job, there are some grammer problems, but they are easy to ignore. Good book though, but nothing too write home about.	2004-12-06
US	36430688	R3UZ92B1X21AE	0446613266	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross #8)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Decent, but not the best Cross book...	Four Blind Mice I thought was pretty good at times, but sometimes I thought that it got real boring too. Yet Four Blind Mice is about three Vietnam vetrans committing cold-blooded murders. The book begas with one of Sam's best Army buddies getting tried for murder of a woman, they found his Army knife with his DNA and fingerprints on it. Yet he goes to jail and is put on death-row for the murder. Yet he pleas his innocents to Alex and Sam. Once the ball get's rolling, they try to find out who is responsible for the death of this woman. The three Blind mice are sick individuals who tape their murders and watch them like they were a Hollywood movie. Their next victim is a prostiture named Vanessa which they take her to the backwoods and kill her at point-blank range. They also kill a cop near Fort Bragg because he was at the wrong place at the wrong time.<br /><br /> Then a break in the case for Alex, a mysterious woman calls Alex telling him that Sam's friend didn't kill the woman, but the Army refuses to believe that he didn't kill any woman, and that he was with this wife at the time of the killing. Something does not make sense to Alex, why would someone kill for fun and who is setting people up? The thing about the three mice is that they first started to paint their victims blue (sort of like the Blue Man Group), and they make it look like a pact suicide. Yet it isn't. As they get deeper into the case, the murders start to come back, and Jamilla, Alex's girlfriend at the moment comes to see him, and they spend some time away from the case, but then they are back on it, and finally Alex's get a mysterious e-mail from a person calling himself the foot soldier, and trying to help Alex and Sam. Then, the mice go to West Point and kill a general and his wife in cold-blood, and take a couple of Asian women hostage and kill them and have sex with them. I have not finished the book, but the book is decent, and personally if you want to read a good Alex Cross book, read Kiss The Girls.The Girls.	2004-11-19
US	36430688	RHVREGZJL9DF7	0671047345	141415139	Separation of Power (Mitch Rapp Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Lukewarm at best...	This was my first Vince Flynn book, and have been a huge Clancy fan (I ignore all his new stuff, but I love the days of The Sum Of All Fears and Patriot Games days), so I decided to pick up Separation of Power. The death of CIA director leaves the CIA in a question? Who is going to succeed him? It turns out that President Hayes picks Dr. Irene Kennedy, but one senator already hates her. So he meets with another senator to look around for dirt on her and try to diminish her reputation. Dr. Irene Kennedy has spent a lot of time working for the CIA and for Mitch Rapp. Then the leader of Mossad (Israeli's version of the CIA) Ben Friedman finds out something shocking; Saddam Hussein is making a nuclear bomb, and has made three of them, but hid them in Al Hussien hospital where they are in a bunker. Ben sends the Foreign Minister of Israel to Washington to talk to President Hays, his message; get rid of the nukes or Israel would. So stressing out of Saddam joining the nuclear race, it means that Saddam could get rid of Israel forever or bring a nuclear bomb to Washington. So they call Mitch Rapp to go to Baghdad and get the bomb. But something is bothering Mitch, while he was in Germany doing a mission, he was almost killed, and he wants to find out who wanted him dead. So Mitch and his girlfriend Anna go to Milan Italy which Anna thinks that it is for vacation, it is , but Mitch is also there to meet with Dontalla; a agent for Mossad, and on a tape, he see's Dontalla in Germany. Once he meets up with her, he finds out that Mossad wanted him dead. Now he is looking for the person who wanted him dead and why. Back in Washington, Dr. Irene Kennedy is then brought to the Senate for questioning, and the news breaks out. Dr. Irene Kennedy was responsible for secret missions where it killed 20 people, and exposes Mitch Rapp as a spy and cold-hearted killer. Since Mitch is out, he has to quit the spying business, but is brought back up for one more mission; go to Baghdad in a white entourage and pose as Uday Hussein. Except to complete this mission, President Hays calls for bombings so that they could take out radars so Mitch and a group of Delta Force could go in and get out in the middle of the night. They complete this, and back in Washington, Dr. Irene Kennedy tells President Hays that one of the congressman comitted a crime; he gave the name of a top covert agent, and it is against the law to bring a agent out. Once Mitch gets back, he is retired since the congressman brought him out.  <br /> <br /> <br />I say the book is lukewarm because I felt that there was little or no suspense when the sting went down. I guess I read the wrong Mitch Rapp book, but I am going to read more of him because I like Mitch, and if you are a Clancy or Ludulm fan, read another book by Vince Flynn or Bob Mayer.	2004-10-26
US	36430688	RMHCF5O6RIPOK	0316603570	335598141	3rd Degree	Books	5	2	5	N	N	What a ride....	3rd Degree is the third book in the series, and I have to say that this was better than 1st to die, and 2nd Chance. Lindsey is walking her dog when a house explodes right in front of her. With the fire still raging, Lindsey races in there to see if anyone is still alive in there, luckly she finds someone, but a infant that was in there, died in the fire. So now begins a investigation, but a group who call themselves August Spies claimed responsibility. Now the man who owned the house, he was a internet millionaire, but the reason August Spies did this, they so called wanted to liberate the world of evil coporations who don't give AIDS vaccine to Africa, and other humanitary needs. They hold responsibility to the coporations, and plan to bring them down. As the book moves along, more violence happens, and the Women's Murder Club get's mail from August Spies, which they call for more violence, and are trying to attack at the G-8 meeting. As the book get's near the end, the reason they are killing certain people because there was a deadly raid by a radical 60's group, the cops who did the raid are now dead, so they go after their relatives because they killed their members. It is a act of revenge for August Spies. Then while things could not look any better, they get a tip from a woman that is helping the mastermind in Berkeley. They then stop the bombing of the G-8 meeting, but one of James Patterson's characters die from August Spies. I have to say that this was a great book, possibly his best work ever. There is a lot of suspence from page one. I finished the book in two days, the chapters are short, and the speed never slowed down one single bit. If you are looking for a good ride, read this book.	2004-09-22
US	36430688	R2Z04GFFMZXF6M	0393326713	424289102	The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (Authorized Edition)	Books	5	14	31	N	N	Finally some answers..	Once I heard that the 9/11 Commission Report was coming out, I had to get it. After reading the book, it answered all my questions, like 'why did Al Qaida do this, and why do they hate Americans?' The answers are in this book. It first starts out with the hijacking of the planes on the day in 2001, up to the crash into the WTC buildings. The book then talks about the how counterterrorism evolved in government with the help of Richard Clarke; former counterterroist czar, and from questioning of President Bush, Dick Chency, and Khalid Shiek Muhammed; the mastermind of 9/11. From KSM, oh how they planned to hijack ten planes and crashing them into the White House, a couple of nuclear power plants, and into the Transamerica Tower in San Francisco. The book then goes on to tell the world about of the Hamburg cell in Germany where some of the hijackers stayed until they were called to kill Americans. Also another question why they came to the U.S. the hijackers came to America to go to flight school since it was too expensive to train in Germany. We also get to see who the real hijackers were; some had extreme views of Islam, and some were just normal people who went along with their lives but who got caught up with the jihad Osama Bin Laden called them on. The book then furthers points out who Osama bin Laden is; it turns out that his family are billionaires who got rich off the land boom in Saudi Arabia who build palaces for the Saudi family, and re-built mosques all across Saudi Arabia. Now here is the things; 15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudi, one man came from Egypt, Lebanon, and other Middle Eastern countries. We also get to see Presidential briefs about the terrorist attacks when the Bush Administration first came into the White House, the out-going Clinton Administration briefed the Administration that they have to get rid of Osama Bin Laden since he was responsible for the bombings of the U.S.S. Cole, the 1993 WTC attacks, the Embassy bombings in Africa, and 9/11itself. Osama Bin Laden active in the whole jihad thing when the Soviet's invaded Afghanistan where he helped the mujahdeen (Islamic warrior) and who had contacts with the CIA where they gathered Stinger missles, training, and money. Eventually, when Iraq invaded Kuwait, Osama talked to the Saudi royal family to declare jihad on Saddam since Saddam was vile, and not a good Muslim, but the Saudi Royal family decided to talk to the Americans to get rid of Saddam. This pissed off Osama. He deannounced the Saudi Royal family, and his Saudi citizenship was revoked, so he found refuse in Sudan where he took care of the vetrans of the Soviet-Afghan war. Then, the government in Khartoum told Osama to leave. This he did, so he could not go back to Saudi Arabia, so he found refuse in Afghanistan with the Taliban was slowly controlling the county, so he took himself his wife and children to Afghanistan where he decided to plan the 9/11 attacks. There were were warning signs everywhere. Bush was briefed on before 9/11, but he didn't want to be bothered with it. Bush had a different agenda before 9/11. In a briefing, on August 11th, President Bush got a briefing saying that Osama Bin Laden is planing to hijack planes and crash them into buildings. Yet they didn't know where or when, and the intelligence sharing was very poor among the CIA, NSA, and the FBI. The book ends after 9/11 and the war in Afghanistan beginning. That is most of the book in a nutshell, if you want to learn the truth, read this book. Every American should read this book.	2004-09-10
US	36430688	REHJUY1EPGKAX	0786014806	392822507	The Summoning	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Kind of slow at first...	But still worth reading. I came across The Summoning from a reviewer on amazon, and he recommended Bentley Little, so I went to the local library and found The Summoning. Having not read a single Bentley Little book, so I decicded to pick this up. Was it a good choice? Yes. The Summoning is scary in parts, but the characters I thought were excellent. The Summoning takes place in a small town called Rio Verde in Arizona, and it is about Brad Woods, and Sue Wing. Brad Woods does autoposies for a living, until bodies drained of all body fluids come into his shop. So all over town, people find animals drained of all body fluids, people all over town think that the town has vampires. No human can drain all body fluids with through the neck. Sue Wing's parents are Chinese, and who own a restaurant, her grandmother then tells Sue Wing Cup-hu-girngsi (corpse-who-drink-blood). Her grandmother knows about cup-hu-girngsi because she experienced it when she was a little girl in a remote village in China. In a church, a pastor is rebuilding a church for the second coming of Jesus Christ where he had a vision to build. A young couple is killed when their bodies are again drained of blood and other body fluids, a cemetary is dug up overnight, and the bodies are dug up. Sue Wing then goes to the local newspaper so that she can get some credits for college, but then things go terribly wrong.  <br /> <br /> <br />I have not finished the book yet, but I am slowly making my way to the end, and I have to say that a majority of the book is kind of slow, but the scenes where the people are killed is scary as hell. Worth reading if you have read everything by King.	2004-09-09
US	36430688	R24Y60VT3Z4PTX	0743490304	315416156	Deception Point	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Ok, but unrealistic at times...	Deception Point I thought would of made a great suspense novel if Dan Brown did not talk about the F-14 Tomcat where it has ski's? And where the bad guys shoot ice bullets which are just as deadly as real bullets? Come on, no such thing exist. I am a teck-junkie and there are no such things as ice bullets and a F-14 Tomcat that has ski's. Anyway, the book is about a meteor in the North Pole where a team of NASA scientist are uncovering it, and when the main heroine Rachel Sexton comes in and discovers that it has life! Back in Washington, a Presidental candidiate who is denouncing NASA as being a waste for the tax-payer, and talks about how he wants to downsize NASA and get rid of it once and for all. But they are not the only ones who knows about the meteor. A group of Delta (now that is real) forces are on the ice ready to quiet them about what they found, then things go horribly wrong.<br /><br />Note that I didn't finish the book because most of the book was slow, and the ski's and the ice bullets just made me mad because in the beginning of the book there is a message saying that everything with all the technologies are fact, which I know are not. If you want to read a good novel, read Digital Fortress.	2004-09-08
US	36430688	RUZA0TSJBDQXE	0446606812	372605776	Message in a Bottle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	For a good cry, read this book.	Message In A Bottle is about a divorcee named Teresa Osbourne; a newspaper columnist for the Boston Globe, and a single mother. Then while on vacation at Cape Cod, she finds a bottle that has a letter inside. It is from a man named Garett who wrote it for someone named Catherine. The letter moves Teresa, then she publishes the letter but does not use the names in the letter. Now she does some research, she finds more letters from Garett, Teresa then does some research, and eventually finds Garett. So she goes down to North Carolina, and meets Garett. It turns out that Garett is a nice man, and so Teresa and Garett hit it off. So after sailing, it is there that they start to fall in love. From there, they have nice dinners, but Teresa does not tell Garett about the letters she found. So when Teresa goes back to Boston, she then goes back down to North Carolina with her son Kevin who on the last trip he was in California with his father David. Teresa then goes back down to North Carolina with Kevin, Kevin and Garett hit it off, Kevin and Garett go snorking which Kevin loves. From there, they see each other from Boston to North Carolina, but when Garett finds the letters from Catherine, he is enraged with Teresa because they were his letters were personal to him, so he goes back to North Carolina enraged, but eventually Teresa goes back down to tell him what happen. Eventually, they call it off because Garett does not want to move to Boston with Teresa feels heart-broken, Garett does not want to move to Boston because he does not feel at home. Then something happens. Garetts father calls Teresa where he has terrible has happen. Garett has died from a storm while sailing. He is then buried next to Catherine. Teresa finds a letter from Garett at the beach. Teresa reads the letter, then throws her own letter out there to be adrift maybe never to be found.  <br /> <br /> <br />This book is a tear-jerker, and especially for a guy, this book starts out kind of slow, but onceyou get toward the end, it did break my heart to see two people who loved each other, and it was just very emotional. This is worth reading.	2004-09-03
US	36430688	R3QYQF2F0C4AX0	0451188454	582723746	The Bone Collector: The First Lincoln Rhyme Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Read this book....	I saw the movie a couple of years ago, I thought it was ok, but then I saw the book, and immediately got it. I have to say that this book puts James Patterson to shame. The story takes place in NYC, and the UN deligation is there holding a summit, but the book starts out with a man and a woman taking a cab, but when he misses their stop...things go for the worst. They are killed, and now a murderer is on the loose. Then comes in Lincoln Rhyme, a no nonsense arrogant (and I do mean arrogant) former police officer until he got hurt which he cannot walk anymore and now spends his time in bed. Now when Amelia Sachs spots a body, then the hunt for the killer begins. At first they go through forensic clues, they build a profile about the killer, but yet the author Jefferey Deaver does give us some clues to who the killer is, but still you have to keep on reading to find out who is causing all these killings. Eventually, as their profile gets bigger, he then makes a couple of mistakes. Take for example, when the Bone Collector tries to kill a German woman, but got away, he tries to get rid of all the clues from the crime scene, but still he leaves forensic clues for Lincoln Rhyme, though he cannot get out of bed, he tells beat cop Amelia Sachs to be his eyes and ears when she is walking the scene. As the book moves forward, and coming so close to catching the killer, eventually they get a fingerprint! They follow the print, and a old leaf they found at a scene. So now as they get closer and closer, eventually the case is taken away from Lincoln and his people helping him solve the case, but when they saved a victim from the pier, he tricks them by kidnapping a woman and daughter. The book is rather interesting, and worth reading. I am not done with it yet, but wow...the suspense is just amazing, the action feels real, and the forensic talk is there. This is a must-have for any person who loves forensic work, and loves mysteries.	2004-08-31
US	36430688	R13TQ2GL8P0STL	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Definitely much better than The Summons and King Of Torts	I say that The Last Juror is better than the last two novels he came out with. Now The Last Juror is not another Grisham novel with a young lawyer in trouble or knows a secret he knows and takes the money and run to a nice island to Grand Cayman Islands. The Last Juror takes place in the 70's in Ford County; Grisham returns to Ford County since the release A Time To Kill. Now this time, instead of a lawyer, a newspaper writer gets into the murder and trial for the murder of Rhonda by Danny Padgett who Rhonda didn't accept a dance from him, so he murdered her in front of her children. Now, Wiley (the owner of Ford County Times) grabs the trial and is there from the beginning to the end. Danny is eventually sent to prison in life; in the 70's life only meant 8 years, during the post-trial, Wiley keeps reporting the local stories, hangs out with a couple of Vietnam Vets who love poker, yet they always invite Wiley to play since he always loses. It is then that Danny is released from prison, and goes on a killing spree when he told the jury that sentenced him to life, three juror's are killed, and immediately Danny is fingered for the killings of the jurors. At first the book starts out slow, slow like A Painted House slow, but Grisham lets the story simmer and the last 50 pages I thought were the best he has ever written. If you are looking for a good book that is slow, but yet suspensul? Get this book!	2004-08-25
US	36430688	R7ETW1KRFD8KU	1594200076	469542612	Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan, and bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A deep history.....	Ghost Wars tells the story of the front of the Soviet-invasion of Afghanistan and how under Ronald Reagen supported the mujahdeen who declared jihad on the Soviets. During this time, the CIA and the Pakastani ISI gave huge amounts of money, training, and weapons to the mujahdeen &quot;freedom fighters&quot; who came from all over the Islamic world to fight. Eventually as the war dragged on, and with the redrawl of Soviet troops leaving a Soviet-puppet government Najbullah in power of Kabul. The Soviets and the American governemnt made a deal that as long as the Soviet troops were out of Afghanistan, the American government stopped funding the mujahdeen which then lead to chaos in Afghanistan, and the rising of the Taliban which they declared they were going to get rid of the war lords and impose a strict Islamic government in Kabul. When Bush Sr. was voted out of office, Clinton ignored Afghanistan all together, and turned his attention to Bosnia, Haiti, Kosovo, and Somilia. Eventually Osama Bin Laden comes into the picture, in the book it talks about Bin Laden as this radical who was supported by the Taliban. Steve Coll (the author of the book) digs deep into the secret history of Afghanistan, he then talks about the CIA, and their secret war against the Taliban, and supporting the Northern Alliance by Massoud who was leading their fight against the Taliban. When the Taliban conquered Kabul, they imposed a similar like religious police against women; they had to wear the Iranian-style burqa, and were not supposed to be in public without their burqa, or a male relative or husband. When the Taliban got Kabul under their grasp, they got recognized by Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia, which in Saudi Arabia, they have a religious police also. I am not done with the book yet, but it tells how the Taliban got into power, and what happen during the 1980's up to Sept.10 2001. This is worth reading if you want to understand what your government has done in the past 20 years.	2004-08-06
US	36430688	R2PI8LJAINOZMF	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Ehhh.....	The Street Lawyer is ok. The Street Lawyer is about Michael Brock; a successful laywer at Drake&Swenny in Washington D.C. he is married; though his marriage is going in the crapper which John Grisham does not say why it is going bad, but he makes a lot of money, until a homeless man comes to the office and takes the lawyers hostage. The bum's name is Mr., he likes to be called that, so he asks everyone have they ever helped the homeless? They all say no, have they ever given money to help the homeless? No. When the SWAT team get word of what is happening, they take Mr. out with his brains blew out and Mike's face is covered with the man's blood. So he takes a couple of days off, then he investigaves who Mr. really was. It turned out that he was evicted out of a warehouse which it was destroyed. So now he decides to help out the homeless people at a homeless shelter, and he see's this young woman who is sleeping in her car, then back at home his wife Claire; she is a doctor making money also, but Mike decides that Mr. changed his life. So he quits the firm at Drake&Swenny, and becomes a street lawyer. He meets his street lawyer named Moroki, so he joins the firm starting out with $30,000 a year; at Drake&Swenny, he was making $900,000 a year. Now to Mike, money is not an issue. So he tells Claire that he is a poverty lawyer, she gets a divorce, and he moves out to this dump of an apartment, then the homeless woman he met at the homeless shelter died because her muffler got stuck in the snow, and died. She also was evicted from her apartment. As Mike digs deeper, he finds out that Drake&Swenny evicted Mr. and other homeless people from their apartment where they were paying $100 a month, but was evicted because they got an eviction notice, and was torn down. Mike goes back to Drake&Swenny to get the file where the eviction notice was made. He then is caught with the file, but he makes his case in court. Eventually, Mike wins against Drake&Swenny for $3 million dollarsin damages. While the case is moving, Mike falls in love with Ruby, a woman that of course is homeless and a drug addict. They get together, and before she is entered in a detox center, they go to a beach house Mike rented, and they think.  <br /> <br /> <br />I gave the book three stars because I felt there was no suspense, no nothing. I think that this his worst novel yet, now don't get me wrong, he can write, but this was not Grisham's best novel. If you want to read a good book read The Firm.	2004-08-06
US	36430688	R1VFRONGYE7EKZ	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Most of the book is good, the ending sucked!	The Partner I thought was a good novel. The book is about Patrick Lanigan (I got it on audio CD, so excuse the misspelling), a lawyer who faked his own death so he could steal $90 million dollars from his former firm. Now he is in Rio in Brazil until he is kidnapped by a man named Jack Stefano who was hired to fine Patrick and bring him back to the U.S. for murder, and some other charges. They caught Patrick when he was jogging on a dirt road when he stopped to help this person who was changing a flat, but it turned out that their plan was to lure Patrick, then throw him in the trunk and drive off. Patrick has a new life, a new love, and is loving it until it starts to crash down in front of him. Once he is in custody of Jack Stefano, he hires a group of Brazilian thug's to interrogate Patrick to tell them where the money it. They use mean's of torture which it leaves Patrick black and blue in the more &quot;sensitive&quot; areas. Finally after being tortured, Patrick tells Stefano's men that the money is in a bank in Rio and belongs to a Rio firm where Patrick's girlfriend Eva works for.<br /><br /> So once this is said and done, he is then flown back to Memphis to be charged for murder, and other charges. See this is how Patrick did it; Patrick faked his own death, stole the money, and disappeared for four years until now, he is back from the grave! While Patrick is being taken care of by a Pakastani doctor, his lawyer Sandy; college buddies, and who attended his fake funeral, now represents him. Now Patrick's wife, and her boyfriend got life insurance from Patrick's death, and so far she has spent almost all of the money, she then finds out that Patrick was alive all this time, and could be sued by the insurance company, so her boyfriend takes matters into his own hands; for them not to get sued, he is looking into the hire of a contract killer, and since Patrick and his former wife have a child together; Ashley Nicole, she is now caught into the matter. Now questions start to arise, where is the money? WHERE IS THE MONEY? Patrick just gives a stupid look, and shrugs his shoulders. He does not know where the money is since it is wired from banks to banks all over the world. Once Sandy and Patrick meet, Sandy asks Patrick how did he get away; Patrick met a old man that was dying, so once he died, he took the corpse of the man, and put it in his car, and let the corpse burn. Once that was done, he met a little boy who was living in the woods trying to run away from his abusive step-father, so Patrick gave him some money and a bus ticket, and was never seen since. Patrick then watched his funeral in a tree not far from where they were hosting it. He was watching his own funeral, and laughing at the thought of people thinking he was dead. Sandy can't believe it! Back in Rio, Eva is then arrested and brought to the U.S. and they are asking her where is the money, he does not tell them, and so is caught in the legal battle with Patrick. As things start to unfold, we find out that Ashley Nicole is not Patrick's daughter, he took a drop of blood of her's when she was a baby, and had the DNA checked to see if he was the father; the test came out negative. Patrick then switches the tables telling Sandy that under Stefano's custody, he was tortured, but he tells Sandy he was under the FBI's custody, and the FBI tortured since Stefano proclaimed that he was with the FBI. So now, he want's to sue the FBI for torture, but as the book end's, Eva's father is captured for her information of where the money is, she does not know, but the money could be anywhere. So they let her father go, and now she is sent to Europe with some cash, and goes shopping. Before the trial could begin, Patrick tells Sandy that they cannot hold him because he didn't do anything wrong. He didn't kill a man to be in the car, he used the corpse, but that was it. So Patrick thinks he is a free man, but they charge him for muliating (sorry for the misspelling) a corpse, he served 18 months, and is then released. He goes back to Rio, meets with Eva, but she is gone forever.<br /><br /> Like I said, the ending sucks! Most of the book is worth reading, but don't be shocked to finish the book only to find out that Eva played Patrick for a fool.e served 18 months, and is then released. He goes back to Rio, meets with Eva, but she is gone forever.  <br />  <br />  <br /> Like I said, the ending sucks! Most of the book is worth reading, but don't be shocked to finish the book only to find out that Eva played Patrick for a fool.	2004-08-02
US	36430688	R1O5W3RNOMWO4D	0375703845	939433309	Glamorama (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	And the point of this book is?	I am a huge fan of Elli's work, I read them all and I love them all, but when I picked up Glamorama, I thought I was in for a good read, but I was proven wrong. Glamorama is about a fashion model named Victor Ward; if you read The Rules Of Attraction, then you know who I am talking about, but even if you didn't, don't worry you didn't miss much, who is opening his own club in Manhatten. He is being constanly interviewed since he is the 'it-boy' of the moment getting his 15 minutes of fame. The first 200 pages I found were kind of boring and repetitive (American Psycho is too), but he is then followed by a mysterious man, so now he decides to take a break from the life he lives. He takes  a trip to Europe and that is when thing's go awkward. He then becomes part of a terrorist network making bomb's, so now he is a fashion model/terrorist. The rest of the novel lead's to more of a Chuck Palahniuk kind of ending. The point of the novel? I didn't find one, but still I thought I should give it 4 star's because the novel is VERY DIFFERENT from any work done by Ellis. This is not my favorite novel by Ellis, but I suggest that you read his earlier work like Less Than Zero to The Informers. If you like Chuck's work (like I do), then you will like this novel, but this novel is not for everyone. Some people will like it, some people won't. You make the choice either to read it or just get out of the library. Just get it out of the library and judge the book for yourself.	2004-07-19
US	36430688	R2SVMBG3HQZCA6	0782141269	73109470	A+ JumpStart: PC Hardware and Operating Systems Basics	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good for beginners....	This book is a good start toward learning the basics of a PC, but this book will not help you pass the A+ test. Now that is out of the way, it does give a good description of what a motherboard looks like, what buses look like and how they work. <BR> The book does give you some good pictures of how to put memory on a motherboard, and it does have some good points in this book. One of them has to do with the new words that most people don't know what they mean, for example, like what TCP/IP does and what it stands for. It also shows you the command lines like what FDISK does, the basic boot process, basic networking, basic troubleshooting, and just about basic problems you will run into a as a technician. The thing I don't like about this book is that it does not deal with the more technicial detail like the Power On Self Test, the FRU, how the IRQ's work, how to troubleshoot advanced problems; hardware and software. The book is short, and it will help you get the basic technicial skills. Not the best since I am a certified PC Technician, but for anyone who wants to learn how a computer works, then get this book. This book is not for the person who has years of experience, and know what they are doing. So to the beginners who want technicial skills, get this book. It will really help you get a good grasp on computers.	2004-07-09
US	36430688	R1NOQ97ZP69I6F	0060092572	376914649	The Terminal Man	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very interesting....	The Terminal Man is a pretty old novel, but it stills stands the test of time. This novel came out in the 70's, and some of the events in this novel seem a little far-fetched in those times, and kind of understandable in these current times. <BR>  Harry Benson has violent blackouts where he attacks people and does not remember what happens. So when Dr. Pherson decides to operate on Harry Benson to stop the blackouts, he plants a soft of pacemaker for the brain to stop it. The operation goes successful, but Harry Benson is soft of a paranoid individual who thinks that computers are taking over the world. Harry is a programmer, so he has that kind of thought running through his head. The operation has proven successful with chimps, except that they snatch out the wires, so this is their first time doing it on a human. The sort of pacemaker is about as big as a pack of cigarette's and is implanted in his shoulder. The thing works as sending shocks to the brain where it gives off sort of like a good signal. Then something goes wrong. Harry now knows how to get the good shocks by himself, and escapes from the hospital. Now they are on the lookout for him, it is then that he tries to kill one of the female doctors who worked on him, and kills a stripper who brought him earlier a black wig and a couple of other things. He kills her also. While on the lookout for him, he sneaks back into the hospital and hides in the basement to destroy the huge computer they have there. Eventually he is found and killed. <br />Though the novel is pretty old, some of the things discussed in this novel are actually real. There is a sort of device that is to help people with depression like the same things discussed in this novel. This is a good novel, short, but it still worth reading.	2004-07-08
US	36430688	R2IBJDNK97RFT	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	5	16	24	N	N	This man has a interestng life.....	William Jefferson Blyth Jr. or A.K.A Bill Clinton came out with his autobiography called My Life. Now since I have gotten deep into this book, this man is just amazing. Clinton talks about his early childhood memories back in Arkansas as this big kid who's father was killed in a car accident when he was just a baby. His mother was very supportive of Clinton where he grew up poor and paved his way into politics. Clinton became a Democrat when he was very young where he saw poor people like himself and from that day on, he wanted to make a change. Eventually his mother remarried to a car dealership owner named Roger Clinton. From then on, he called himself William Jefferon Clinton. His father, (Roger Clinton) was a drunk who abused his mother from time to time, but deep inside he was a good man. He just had a weakness for the bottle. Then Clinton talks about the birth of his younger brother Roger Clinton, and some of the hardships where his mother and brother decided to get away from her husband to escape the abuse. Eventually he got into Georgetown in Washington D.C. and got a Rhodes scholarship. As he got older, he then got more political when Johnson wanted to pour more troops into Vietnam protesting sending more kids there. He then helped out a couple of candidates who were running for President by passing out flyers and going on cross-country trips. So far I am not done yet, but I still got another 800 pages left of the book, this is just an early review. Some of the details he puts in this book are very great, and he painfully puts his family, friends, and the events to life instead of just another cookie-cutter autobiography with characters. This man I found to be great interest to me, and if you want to read a good autobiography, read this book.	2004-07-08
US	36430688	R3M9D6CT7540VI	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	11	16	N	N	You have to read this book....	I say that because this book holds a lot of detail going way back to the Reagen Administration. Richard Clarke knows his stuff. In the book, Richard talks about the war on terror. Now the war on terror has been going on for a long time; it has been going on since the Clinton Administration after the bombing of the U.S. Embassies in Africa. When Clinton left office, and Bush was coming in, Richard Clarke told the Bush Administration that Al Qaida is planning to attack America in the coming months. The thing is that Bush ignored the warnings coming from Richard Clarke until it was too late. Al Qaida first came into the light during the first World Trade Center attack in 1993, and they were looking at Al Qaida waging a war against America. Their goal is to overthrow unIslamic governments and install a 14th Century-style theoracy where women have no rights, and men are forced to grow beards as part of the Islamic custom. As the years went on, Richard Clarke points out that the Bush Administration ignored ALL of the warning's he gave them, and briefed them on everything about Al Qaida. They refused to listen. Then the Bush Administration wanted Richard Clarke to find connections with Al Qaida to Iraq. They didn't care if it was false or real, but in 1993, done by one of Clarke workers, found that there was no connection between Al Qaida and Iraq, but there is connections between Syria, Iran, and Pakistan to Al Qaida. Again they refused to listen to him then. Also there was almost war against Iran for supporting the Egypitian Islamic Jihad where they were fighting the Israel's in Lebanon. Clinton wanted regime change in Iran, but he didn't fillful the action since he was caught in the Monica scandal thanks to the Republican party. There was more media attention drawn on that than the war on terror. Clinton made it a top priority on his list of things to do, but time was running out for Clinton and so came in Bush. Clinton wanted Bush to get rid of Al Qaida, but he failedto that also until 9/11 happen. Toward the end of the book, Richard Clarke talks about Iran, and Pakistan where he see's in the year 2007 that Pakistan is now a country where the Taliban is reinvented, and the govenment of Harmid Karzi fails to bring peace througout Afghanistan. It is still a little to late to come to processures, but we just have to wait and see.	2004-07-06
US	36430688	R24C4I2U4NWSV8	0312995423	201960968	Digital Fortress	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Way better than The DaVinci Code!!!!	Digital Fortress I thought blew the socks off the DaVinci Code. Then that is my own opinion. Digital Fortress is about Susan Fletcher; a cryptologist working for the NSA (National Security Agency) who comes across an code that is unbreakable by TRANSLTR; a super computer that can crack a million lettered code in six minutes. <BR> Now the man who created the code; Mr. Tankado who worked for the NSA, but now he is dead and a ring that has the key to decipher the code is GONE! So now it is up to David; Susan's boyfriend where he goes on a cat-and-mouse chase to find the ring where he is being followed by a man in rim glasses. He then tries to get information out of the people David talked to, one person he just killed. Now back at NSA, Susan made a trace to see who sent the code, and all she has to go on is a name: NDaktoa. But there is something that is scary; if the code could be sold, then anyone in the world can send it to the NSA which it can cause havoc and release information about secret operations, protected witnesses, and just about every secret that the government has. It is then that Susan finds out that this Japanese man who wants the code is trying to buy it off of NDakota, and it turns out that NDakota is working for the NSA! So now, the man who's name is Greg Hale. He then kills one of his co-workers when the power goes out in the NSA building, and now he wants out! I am not yet done with the novel, but man I thought this was much better from Dan Brown. Since being what one reviewer a 'geek', there are some facts in here about the super computer clocking pretty fast with millions of processors going all at once. It can happen if someone is willing to put money into the machine. So if you want to check out a good thriller, read Digital Fortress.	2004-06-29
US	36430688	R2IUX1GKIFEAQ0	1880418592	782981224	Song of Susannah (The Dark Tower, Book 6)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	This book make's no sense...	I patiently waited for Song Of Susannah, after I read Wolves Of The Calla, I thought it was one of the best Tower novels. Up through 1 through 5, the Dark Tower series was great with the action and the detail about Roland and his ka-tet, but once SOS came out....I didn't know where King is going with the series. <BR>SOS takes place just after just hours after the defeat of the wolves. So now, Susannah has gone to New York City in 1999, so this world which is just like the world we live in today, and she is ready to have her chap which then she is being controlled by Mia Daughter of None. As she travels along New York, she tricks a Swedish Ambassador for the UN to rent her a hotel room in a five-star hotel thanks to her ball. Then Father Callahan, Roland and Eddie go to find Calvin Tower to see if he is all right. There is a huge gun fight between Jack's men and Roland and Eddie. Now their mission is to find Stephen King (I don't know why he put himself in this book, just to show you that King is showing his age) who wrote Salems' Lot which had Father Callahan in it. Father Callahan and Jake try to find Susannah, but with no apparent luck. Toward the end of the book, Susannah is then captured by the low men and the vampires. It is then that she has her chap. Then there is a writers journal that is supposed to make up the ending. The reason I gave this book two stars was due to the fact that I don't know where the Dark Tower series is going. King turned a great series into a joke. This book in my opinion is a sick joke played among everyone else. I just hope to God that Dark Tower 7 does not turn out like this. Don't read this book unless you are a Dark Tower junkie.	2004-06-29
US	36430688	R1BFUCENTE14E8	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	12	21	N	N	Very well written...	I got this book on audio CD, and I have to say that this book really open my eyes about how the United States puts itself out there in the world. Noam Chomsky goes through some good issues such as the Bay Of Pigs invasion during the Cuban Missle Crisis, and through the total history of the last 20th century.<BR>  Also Noam then talks about during WW2, during the Allied Occupation of Italy, the allies brought back the secret police because the Italian people would not accept democracy and they only chose to get back to facism under the dictatorship of Mussiolini. Noam then turns his attention to the War in Afghanistan and Iraq. See America's dominance first started in WW2 and has moved forward with the overthrow of democratically elected governments in Iran, Brazil, and Guatamelia. Then he turns his attention in the book in the 80's to the Iran-Contra scandal which the Pentagon gave weapons to the Contra's in Central America and to release the hostages at the former American Embassy where the hostages where being held for 444 days until Reagen was elected president in 1980. It was then that he ordered the invasion of Grenada, Haiti, and Operation Just Cause where the local's where gassed by the American military in Panama to capture CIA-backed but now enemy combatant Noreiga. He then addressed the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan where the CIA and the ISI flowed weapons to the jihadist fighting against the Soviet's and the Soviet-backed Communist government in Kabul. Once the Soviet's left, Afghanistan then fell into chaos where the world turned a blind eye to what was going on until some 13 years later when Al-Qaida terrorist flew planes into the World Trade Center on Sept.11th. When Sept.11th happen, everyone was sympantic to the Americans, but the people of Central America did not show any sympanty to the Americans because they knew that the American government overthrew democratically-elected leaders which were replaced with dicators who were loyal to the United States and comitted genicide which the U.S. government turned a blind eye of what was happening there. Noam then goes forward with America's passion for a military space program which was called Star Wars where missiles from satellites can be fired anytime at any country that provokes harm at the United States. So far this is a very good book, and if you want to know the truth, then read this book.	2004-06-28
US	36430688	RUXUNCIHWMQQR	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Having read this book again...	I came across more things than I missed reading it the first time. Like I said in a very early review of this book, how George W. Bush when he was governor of Texas, his company Unical wanted to run a oil pipeline through Afghanistan during the rule of the Taliban. Also the Taliban came to Texas to spend some time with the governor enjoying the treatment's of five-star hotel rooms, and just about everything to make them comfortable. <BR> Oh, and how during the time of 9/11 when planes were grounded, the Bin Laden family left the country due to them being hurt by the American citizens. They were then transported with the Air Force to Europe, and the FBI didn't keep them in their custody or ask them any questions. NOTHING! When President Bush was chosen by the Supreme Court, Karl Rove, Paul Wolfawitz, and Donald Rumsfield came up with a plan to during the Clinton Administration to conquer the world. They just needed a candidate and a event; President Bush, and 9/11. And what did they call this war to conquer the world; The war On Terrorism. <BR> Mike then goes on to say that during Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan, the Afghan President Harmid Karzi is a worker for Unical! WHAT? Yes it is the truth! Mike then goes on to say that American is a Liberial paradise. Sure conservatives have talk radio, the liars at Fox News, and the list goes on. So why are they so mad? Because the conservatives know that most Americans are Liberials. They just don't call themselves that. <BR>I could go on about this book, but I am short on time. So if you are a liberial, then read this book! Ignore all of the negative comments about this book! Read it, and just have a good time with this book.	2004-06-21
US	36430688	R1R8DELZIOUG0K	1880418592	782981224	Song of Susannah (The Dark Tower, Book 6)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not the best....	But hey it is the Dark Tower. SOS starts out just hours later after the fight against the wolves. Now Susannah is now taken over by Mia Daughter of None and has gone back to New York 1999. Now this world is unfamilar to her since she is from the early sixties and segeration still has not been abolish from public places. So now as Mia who is pregnant with her chap, she is then held up at this machine where Mia controls Susannah, and she switches back from Mia, Susannah, and Odetta. Now Roland and Eddie go back to New York to save Calvin Tower and kill off Jack and his men. It is then that they are on the quest to find Stephen King; the man who wrote this series and Salems' Lot. Calvin Tower cherishes Salem's Lot because they made a mistake on Father Callahan's name on the cover. They believe that Mr. King is responsible is one of the King's who hold the Tower from falling. Jake and Father Callahan are now in the future trying to save Susannah. Jake and Father Callahan are mostly not in the book until later on. It is just Roland and Eddie to find Mr. King and see what he know's. This is just an early review, so I still got a couple of chapters left.<br />This is not the best Dark Tower novel. The best so far has been Dark Tower 1 through 5. I was kind of disappointed with some of the novel because some of it does not make any sense. King is a great writer, but he has kind of gotten out of his relm with this book. I just hope that Dark Tower 7: The Dark Tower comes out great like The Return Of The King. We just have to wait.	2004-06-17
US	36430688	R13HU2QHXTGAM	1932234004	75828016	Ring	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Pretty good....	Ring of course the movie is based on this book; in Japan it was released on the title Ringu, and it was remade in America as The Ring staring Naomi Watts. Now of course the book is TOTALLY DIFFERENT from the American version. Investing the deaths of four young people, under their autoposy showed they died from heart failure. Now Asakawa a reporter is now investing the death's of these young people. Now he traces their steps to this hotel he rents for the night. It is then he discover's a tape that is unmarked. On that tape is a strange images on the tape. At the end of the tape it say's whoever is watching this tape will die in seven days. So now with only a couple of more day's to live, he the teams up with a serial rapist Ryuji to help him discover some of the images on the tape. One of them being a volcano in rural Japan. As they get deeper, it gets scarier! In a long time, I have never read a novel that chilled me through the bones. Koji Suzuki has been called the Stephen King of Japan. This novel is worth reading to anyone who wants to be scared. Especially King fans.	2004-06-17
US	36430688	R2U7G65Y9CPDO6	0452282764	562863710	Help Yourself: Finding Hope, Courage, And Happiness	Books	5	12	15	N	N	This is such a well written book...	Help Yourself gave me the chance to do what I am doing right now; fixing computers. In this book, Dave talks about the pains of his childhood, but that didn't stop him from being alive. Just because you are in a negative environment does not mean that you will succeed. In this book, he helps you that only you can make a chance, and nothing is impossible if you put your mind to it. He also credits people like Colin Powell from coming up from poverty to become the Secretary Of State (but he did not put the Secretary Of State, just the Joint Chief's of Staff because this book is kind of old). He also gives you the courage to live out your dreams, and to make yourself a better person. He writes in the book that if you can get rid of the negative crap out of your life, and try to look at the positive things, then you will be a much more happier person. The pain that he describes is real and very painful. No matter how hard he tried in school, his drunken mother always told him that he was stupid and she hated him and wished that he was dead. He survived and proved his mother wrong. The thing is that he does not hate his mother, or his father from turning a blind eye to the abuse. Dave wrote that no one should hate anybody no matter what they put you through. This is a very good book, and a real life saver.	2004-06-11
US	36430688	R27UCCPG0T7RCO	1400047838	140421558	Fugitives and Refugees: A Walk in Portland, Oregon (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This book RULES!!!	This is about as close as you are going to get to a autobiography of Chuck Palahniuk, but hey, it is all good. Fugitives and Refuggees is not your ordinary travel book. This book looks deep into the &quot;other&quot; side of Portland. Most of the book talks about places to eat, see, and also one of my most favorite chapters where you can go for some good strip shows in Portland. I have to say that I love Laurie (Chuck's roomate) and how when she was younger, she would go sneak into her father's bed, and give him &quot;oral pleasure&quot;. Some of the thing's that Chuck did when he was younger was strange, but yet I am glad to see that I got to know a little bit more about one of my favorite authors. So if you want to go to Portland, then read this book. There are some strange landmarks there too, and some of the shows there are fun to go to. Some of them are strange, but they still worth checking out.	2004-06-09
US	36430688	R1TX185IWG9DHP	0891414142	354194190	Eyes of the Hammer	Books	5	54	58	N	N	This makes Clear and Present Danger...	look like a comic book. Of course Clear and Present Danger was longer, and Clancy yacked about how powerful a rifle is, and how big a ship is, Eyes Of The Hammer ignores ALL OF THAT, and gives us the full action. Eyes Of The Hammer is about Special Forces that sneak into Columbia and to destroy the drug labs. <BR> Bob Mayer of course was a former Special Forces soldier, and the action felt real, and was quite exciting. The plans and the tactics felt real and how the soldiers fought very realistic. Eyes Of The Hammer ignores all of the CIA business, and it just deals with the military operations. The thing I had a problem is that some of the writing was kind of poor, but still I felt this was a strong book. Worth reading.	2004-06-08
US	36430688	R2C59U34K40VB3	0345370775	392304217	Jurassic Park: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	After all these years...	This is still one of Crichton's best. We all know about the plot to Jurassic Park (if you seen the movie, then you know), but if you don't....then where have you been in the past 11 years?! Jurassic Park is about how cloning Dinosaur DNA (the construction of life itself) from mosquoties trapped in amber. So now Hammond; a rich successful man then comes up with an idea to bring back the dinosaurs and have them in a theme park for the world to see. It sounds nice, but as Dr. Grant, his associate Ellen both palenotiogist (excuse the spelling), Ian Malcom; a math wizard who tell's Hammond and the crew about Chaos Theory and how the park is going to fail. Now you also have the lawyer Mr. Gammond (in the movie he dies, but in the book he lives), and Hammond's grandkids Tim and Lex. We then meet Dennis Nerdy; a programmer who works in the control room constructing the security in the park, Mr. Arnold, another programmer who is overseeing the park itself. Then Mr. Wu; a scientist who clones the animals. Now the thing is that Mr. Wu tells the crowd that all of the dinosaurs are female so they cannot bread. But then Dennis Nerdy is the man in to grab the dino embroys to sell them to a man named Donson; both of them will be billionaries by selling the embroyos to coporations and so forth. With this Nerdy then SHUTS DOWN ALL THE POWER to the park so he can go in there and get the embroyo's which Dr. Grant, Tim, Lex, Dr. Malcom out there in the park looking at it. Then the T-Rex comes out and sideswipes one of the cars which Lex and Timmy are in. Dr. Grant then get's thrown in with them. So now they are in the park with the dinosaurs. <BR> Nerdy then grabs the embroyos and tries to get to the docks with Dondon is. Except he is killed by one of the free animals. <BR>So while the whole crew is trying to find him, they are stuck with no power! Now in the park, Dr. Grant, Lex, and Tim are trying to get back to the visiting center which is not a easy feat. They come across the T-Rexand raptors along the way. So now, Ian Malcom's Chaos theory is right. These animals are living in a different world, and they cannot be house-trained because that is not how God created them. Man brought back animals that were dead for 65 million years, and man didn't know how to contain them. That is pretty much the whole book in a nutshell. The action is GREAT! There is more scenes in which the movie didn't have, but just read the book and trust me it is worth reading.	2004-06-03
US	36430688	R22H59LL1DDXBN	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Having gone through abuse...	I understand how David feels throughout his novel. Now I was not abused with forced starvation or having to wear old clothes everyday (that was later in my life), but the accout of the pain he felt, I was crying because I know that me and him went through with unstable mothers who beat us, and were treated like s*it. David tells us the fun times with his mom when he was younger, but as he got older, his mother would play sick games with him; having him put his finger in his throat to see if he ate, and not letting him take a bath and going to school looking like crap. Some of the things he put's in this book showed me that you can get beaten like him or even through a horrible situation, and still be able to survive. The games his mother played with him was once he was done with his chores, she gave him scraps of food and he would have to finish the plate in a time-limit, and if he didn't, he didn't get any food. There were times where he went without food for ten days. He would have to sneak into other kid's lunch boxes and steal food. There was another time where he would go to the local supermarket and steal food and hide it in the bathroom. One sick thing his mother did to him was when he was forced into the bathroom with bleach and ammonia in a bucket and was forced to stay in the bathroom until he was throwing up blood. <BR>His father was not there most of the time, and he loved his father, but his mother was such a evil bitch! It is amazing to see that someone like Dave succeed through this and was able to become a stable adult with a foster family who loved him. It breaks my heart that this kind of abuse still goes on to this day, and still it is not exposed until it is too late. Read this book and get a understanding of how me and Dave had to go through. I never was tortured, but I was beaten until I was limping for sometime. It is not fun to be humilated by the woman who brought me into this world, but then they know that they got what's coming toward them. Just read the book and understand his pain.	2004-05-29
US	36430688	R1DVJBS2XOC40L	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Oh the lies they tell...	Al Franken is funny as hell in this book. I found some of the things true and also funny. Al goes after Anne Colture; nutcase. There is a reason she is a nutcase. In her book Slander and Treason, Al explains that in her book that liberials hate America, that liberials are the new terrorist to America. Liberials are against the working man and woman and want to bring big tax cuts to the rich. Then there was his encounter with Bill O'Reilly. Bill got mad because of how he looked like on the cover of his book. Al then goes on to tell the world that Bill lies on his show all the time. One of his lies that when Bill was on Inside Edition, he said that he won two Peadbody Awards; the most greatest award in journalism. Which of course HE DID NOT! So Al called Bill and addressed this to him. He then said that he meant to say that he won a POKE award, not a Peadbody. Al then takes on (and I hate this man) Sean Hannity. Hannity says the same thing that most consertives say; Liberials are communist, liberials are evil, and they hate freedom. I found this to be untrue. For one Liberials don't hate America, we just love America in a different way. Al then goes after Fox News Channel, and how most of the people working for them; Brit Hume, Sean Hannity, Bill O'Reilly, and the ONLY Liberial who works on Fox is poor Alan Homes. Of course when a Muslim man calls Bill on his show, when Bill said something about the Koran, which he felt hurt for Bill saying that. He called Bill a 'racist'. Bill then GOT MAD like he always does, and told him 'LOOK YOU HAD YOUR TIME TO TALK!' Whoa! Talk about the 'No Spin Zone.'. <BR> Al then happly goes after Bush and his administration, and Dick 'Haliburton' Cheny. Al hits everything on the mark about the right, and I did do my research about the things that is discussed in this book. Al then talks about how the Republicans went after President Clinton, and blamed him on the 9/11 tradegy. Instead of taking blame for themselves, they wanted to blame 'the President before them'. I swear, these liars are STUPID! Oh thank you Al, we need you and people like Jim Hightower, Michael Moore, Molly Ivns, and the hard-working liberials.	2004-05-25
US	36430688	R2FTU7DM1MEGUV	0345391055	782303291	Disclosure	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Best book I have read in a long time...	Disclosure deals with a man who is sexually harassed by a woman. Tom Sanders is the main character in this book, and right now at work he is dealing with a merger with another company, so when his former lover Merdith becomes to his company and who takes his job from him, he is then invited to her office for a meeting; but what happens is that she makes a move on him, but since he is married and not wanting to do it, he is then caught in a plan to bring him down because he wants to file a law suit against him. So when he brings in his lawyer; Ms. Fernandez, she then tells one side of the story, but when he calls one of his co-workers on a cell phone, he then realizes that he didnt end the call so he left the phone on and on the answering machine it recorded the WHOLE event. She then realizes this, and she tells the truth. So now Tom then calls his wife and tells her to leave town for a little bit because he does not want her to get into the mess he is in. <BR> So now, he then counters her past employment; at the time all of the men who worked for her, they either resigned or where transfered away from her. So she has a past for doing sexual harassment. Now the book gets juicy toward the end and I have to say it is just plain exciting. This is a GREAT thriller! I have read it a couple of years ago, and still the book holds your interest toward the end. Great!	2004-05-19
US	36430688	RIXRPDALTALR	0679743243	852717862	The Informers	Books	5	0	1	N	N	If you liked The Rules Of Attraction...	then you will like The Informers. I loved The Rules Of Attraction (and also all of Bret Easton Ellis's books), and I came across this little book and I dove right in. Some of these stories are Easton's best writing, and his characters are STILL unlikable, and they do stupid stuff like drugs, and all that other mess. With these characters; and like most of Bret characters, they always do coke or smoke a joint afterwards. <BR> In one of the stories, it has a touch of American Psycho which Jamie who is a vampire who drinks human blood and murders his victims brutally, like what Patrick Bateman did. The book mostly contend of characters who live in the same city; Los Angeles, and they get their drugs from the same dealers, and they went to the same school. They dont know each other, but all of the characters in this book have a lot in common which is some of the things I just mentioned. Of course the stories I found out ruled, and it was different because Bret likes to ramble into detail; like he did in American Psycho, but he didnt do it that much. Also you could tell by reading the book that Bret had a couple of problems when writing their characters when they are talking. They would stop. Pause. and begin again. Does this make the book bad? No of course not. But this is some good stuff. Worth checking out, and another point, a couple of names in this book; Tim Price, Sean Bateman, are mentioned and if you read The Rules Of Attraction and American Psycho you would know these two characters already. If you dont, then read TROA and AP.	2004-05-14
US	36430688	RBPA1JAIYUE3C	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	This house is built with great writing..	To correct myself, I read House Of Sand and Fog again and to say it, I found the second reading very good. Of course House Of Sand And Fog is about Colonel Berhani; a former Iranian Air Force colonel under the Shah's Air Force. So now, when the fall of Terhan came to the Islamic Revolution, he then escaped with his family and went to California. So now, Berhani is trying to repair his status by buying a house that the county is selling and so he buys the 'bungalow' and things start to turn for the worst. We then meet Kathy; a drug addict who recovers from her addiction and finds out that the county sold the house to someone else and she didnt know that they sold it. So now she is caught in a legal battle with Berhami while he keeps his wife Nadi and his son Ismail in the dark. Then comes in Len; a cop who gets caught in her struggle for the house. Len then falls in love with Kathy, and things start to heat up between the two because they come from two different societies and cant understand each other because of their differences. Then Len breaks into the house and takes hostage Berhami, Nadi, and Ismael in their bathroom. So now things dont look good, and the end is very tragic. I am not going to reveil the ending, but rereading this book made me apperciate a good book when I see it. Some people might not like this book for the way Les acts in the end, but the writing it TOP NOTCH and the characters are fresh and interesting. Andre Dubus III brings Nadi and Berhami to life, and I do have to give him some credit for doing his research on the Persian society and their langugage Farshi. <BR> So if you are looking for a book with some good writing, then this book is for you.	2004-05-12
US	36430688	R1MAKD6WSAAKJE	B00007CWQI	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Not Worth Reading...	The Bear And The Dragon I felt was not worth reading. President Ryan is back in action, but this time instead of being the man that Clancy has shown to us in the past, we now get a complainer and someone who talks down to his staff like they are children. We then meet Chester Normani who is in Communist China to sneak into the governments secret through having sex with one of the Chinese interns. <BR> Then in Russia, a pimp is killed thanks to a RPG in Moscow, and oil and gold is discovered in Siberia. Now as the Russians rush to Siberia, China then gets the idea for invading Russia because they have oil and gold and that is what China needs to get their economy booming again. So now as they go into war mode, we then get back to Ding and John Clark who then go to Moscow to train with the Russians. So now, China and Russia are at war, and of course America steps in and in shock only three F-14 Tomcats are lost to the Chinese. There are no American casulities which I found kind of strange. Then the war is over, and Jack Ryan retires the Presidency to Robby Jackson; his Vice-President who is assassinated because he is the first black man to reach that spot. <br />So why did I not like the book? I found this book very stupid, and too long. There is so much mention of sex I thought I was reading  a bigger portion of Choke by Chuck Palahniuk. Not worth reading, if you want to read something by Clancy, read Debt of Honor.	2004-05-11
US	36430688	R58BFGUWLPJW9	0446532452	935112124	The Wedding	Books	5	1	3	N	N	If you are married, then you will love this book...	Of course I am not married, but that is beside the point. I read The Wedding, and I have to say it was touching. It is the sequel The Notebook (which I really loved), and it is about a married couple (I can't remember the names because I read it last year), and their marriage is going down the drain, so now one of their daughters Anna is getting married, so now as they get the wedding plans together, their relationship is getting better as they get their plans together. They start to talk more and they start to fall in love again. The husband then talks to Noah (if you read The Notebook, then you know how I am talking about), for advice because he was married to his wife for 50 years until she died. So now he spends his time spending with the swans believeing that his wife was reincarating as one of the swans. So now as the wedding time comes down, then the real surprise happens. The ending is beautiful (and for a guy) this brought me to tears because the ending felt so real and so full of hope. If you are a guy reading this, and if you have a girlfriend, read this novel to her or A Walk To Remember. Trust me, you are going to have a good time reading this book to the one you truly love.	2004-05-08
US	36430688	R1PW0AQ7LYVO4K	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Oh Man....	I thought Red Rabbit was horrible, but man, this is horrible! The Teeth Of The Tiger is about a secret organization called 'the campus' where it is a anti-terrorism organization (sort of what Rainbow is). So now we meet Brian and Dominac; Brian is a former FBI agent, while Dominac came back from fighting in Afghanistan to join the organization. Then we meet Jack Jr. now a grown man and ready to follow in his father's footsteps when Jack Ryan was hunting down the Red October, and getting the Special Forces in Columbia after a failed operation to get rid of the Cali drug cartel. <BR> So now, terrorist hook up with the Cali cartel in Columbia to sneak them in America so that the terrorist can attack a shopping mall in D.C. So now, Brian and Dominac go into the mall to shop for some new shoes and they discover the plot. So then Jack Jr. Brian and Dominac head to Europe and get the main man for coming up for this operation. <br />So why the one star? For one, Clancy got LAZY with his writing, and he calls the terrorist 'scumbags'. He is VERY RACIST toward the Arab characters in this book, and him writing that it takes Brian and Dominac 30 minutes to run a mile, for one these men were fit, so why would it take them 30 minutes to run a mile? I can walk a mile in 30 minutes. The book is POORLY written and it begins good, but is SAGS like a poor swimmer who is sinking in water. I felt this novel had potential, but Clancy didnt take his time and I felt that he would just retire.	2004-05-08
US	36430688	RQKMXDA73LGEO	0670031410	978709002	Thieves in High Places: They've Stolen Our Country--And It's Time to Take It Back	Books	5	4	6	N	N	What regime should we change?	Jim Hightower is just plain funny. Thieves In High Places describe how our Politicians are being controlled by big coporations, and just with one pull of the string, they have the politicians in their hands; both parties are controlled by CEO's, which is sad to see. Now did you know that Wal-Mart has their employee's working over 8 hours WITHOUT paying them, and not cloocking out. Also Wal-Mart has kids in China paying them 5 cents a hour working 80 hour work weeks which they suffer from depression, and inhailing paint fumes for the little toys they sell in Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart also comes to town, and destroy's the little guys, and the thing is they are getting away with it! Also in this book, Jim then explains that President Bush is being controlled by big coporations, and Enron has given money to President Bush in 2000, and when Key Lay got under hot water, Bush did nothing to the people who got him in office. I guess that if you got the money, then hey they can get you in office, and when they get in hot water, then they let you suffer.	2004-05-07
US	36430688	R2JS1SQ4UMLCTG	087067997X	732902118	Never Die Alone	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Something different for me....	I usually like to read big authors like King, Clancy, Grisham, Patterson, Chuck Palahniuk, and Bret Easton Ellis. So when I decided to read Never Die Alone (having seen the movie), I decided to read the book. I thought the movie was ok, it was not Adamedy Award material, but it was interesting. <BR> Never Die Alone is about King David; a small-time drug dealer who comes back to the East Coast about spending 10 years in sunny California. Now King David has come back to repay some much needed loans to Moon; a big-time drug dealer himself in NYC. Then we meet Paul; a writer who has had a bad interview with a publisher and is at the local bar having a drink. Then King David comes in and pay's everyone tab's. Then when he gets outside, he is attacked by Moon's men; Mike and Blue. King David calls Moon to tell him that he has the money and that he is on his way to his place. Mike then shoots King David and grab the money. When the shots go off, Paul then comes outside and helps King David to his car. Paul then gets him to the local hospital but he dies leaving Paul the owner of his car, money, and everything else he owns. While driving in King David's car, it is then that Paul discovers a diary written by King David and Paul begins to read; it tells of King David's trip to California, he then meets up with Jamie; a actress who is trying to make it big. Then David gets her hooked on cocaine, and when she does not follow his rules, he then slips her herion to see if she can tell the difference; she cant. <BR> So now as she becomes a addict, he then makes some connections and gets some more cocaine and some heroin on the side. Then he dumps Jaime like a bad habit. Then he meets Junaita; a attractive black female who is making something of herself. Then he gives her cocaine, and he does the same thing he did with Jamie to see if she can tell the difference. She can't either. So now, she becomes a addict and the cops are hot on his trail, he then leaves California to head backto NYC and he has about $50,000 hidden in his car. While Paul is reading the diary, Mike calls Moon about how he killed David; Moon's orders was to bring him to him and he would handle him, so now Moon sends his men to kill Blue and Mike. Luckly Mike escapes from being killed and he see's Moon's men kill Blue along with his sister right in front of him. So now, Mike is on a mission to kill Moon. With that job done, Paul then runs into Mike and Paul gives him the money and the car and leaves forever.<br />Now the unique thing I found out about this novel was this; this was based on truth, or so that is what the book says. I do have to admit that King David was a cold-hearted snake and personally he deserved to die in my personal opinion. You can judge that for yourself.	2004-05-07
US	36430688	R1UINSG7OHUDZ9	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just goes to show that Grisham can write.	I ran across A Painted House from a friend who had it and he told me that it was worth reading. So I brought it a couple of weeks ago, and I have to say that this is a very interesting tale. Luke is our narrator (unlike all Grisham tales when the tale is told through third person), he is just another kid who works on his father's cotton farm in Arkansas. Then one day, while getting workers for their farm, Luke then meets this worker named Hank; a vicious man who has a explosive temper. Then while in town, Hank kills two people, and when the town sheriff comes to the farm, Luke denies seeing Hank picking up a two-by-four and beating them to death in front of the whole town. The story starts out slow, but this is a book that you want to read slow because you dont want it to end. Some people who reviewed this book thought it was slow like molasses on a winter day. This is a book worth reading just to read on a slow summer day and you dont rush through this book to see what happens, things happen slowly just to bring the reader into the world of 1952. This is definitely Grisham's best.	2004-05-04
US	36430688	R1HV3XM05T065A	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	One of the better Dark Tower novels....	Finally, after 5 years waiting for the next Dark Tower novel, it is here! We leave off with Roland and his Ka-tet getting closer to the Dark Tower. Now we then run into them again and now something is going on....Susannah has another personality; her name is Mia Daughter of None and now Roland expects the worst; (...) . So now, they run into a town called Calla Burynes and we meet again Father Callahan (the runaway Preist from Salems' Lot) and the towns folk. They then tell Roland that Wolves to the town every 25 years to take their children. So now the ka-tet get ready to fight the wolves and stop them taking their kids once and for all. Now Father Callahan tells his tale of getting out of Salems' Lot and coming to New York City. There he see's vampires there, and the Low Men wanting to get him (To see who the Low men are, read Hearts In Atlantis). So now we then come back to Calvin Tower; a book store owner who Jake brought a riddle book back in Dark Tower 3: The Wastelands. He is now in danger, and he has connections to the Tower, and he is being harrased about this empty lot where the rose lay's. So now the rose is in danger of being destroyed so now they have to get Calvin Tower out of New York City and somewhere safe away from men who want to convince Calvin to sell the lot. So now, we then come back to the ka-tet and now as the time gets closer to the Wolves, Jake then discovers a secret. One of the town's men and Andy; a robot the kids like to play with is involved with the Wolves taking their children. Then Eddie kills Andy and so now the time of the Wolves come and they kill the Wolves with plates and with the ka-tet's weapons. <BR> Now when Susannah disappears, it is then that the demon-child is close to being born, and now he is taking control of her with Mia Daughter of None. <br />If you want to understand the Dark Tower, dont start with this novel, go back to Dark Tower 1: The Gunslinger and work your way through. If you start here, you wont understand what the Dark Tower is about, and about Roland and how the ka-tet came to be. Now only a short little while until Dark Tower 6: Song Of Susannah. Oh I cannot wait.	2004-05-04
US	36430688	R3TZX08FC2E9XO	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	3	4	N	N	How to understand a new enemy....	Taliban I have to say is one of the most interesting books I have read in a long time. Ahmed tells us the history of Afghanistan and how the Taliban came into power through bloody war. Also he tells us how the Taliban came together through the war with the Soviet's, and how they think. The Taliban ran Afghanistan until the U.S. led invasion threw them out of power in that country and established a provisional government ran by President Harmid Karzi. Of course this book came out in 2000 before they were thrown out of power, but the Taliban leaders banned sports, kite-flying, music, they destroyed women's rights forcing them to wear the buqura and not allowing them to attend school, to work, and they put some harsh rules which they go by the Shaiah rule. They wanted to bring back the time where the Prophet Muhammed was still alive; meaning that they wanted to bring Afghanistan back to the 7th century. Now when we look at the Taliban through this book, we wonder 'why would these men do something like this to women and be so damn strict?'. During the time of Muhammed, things were different in the 7th century, but things have changed and they didnt like what they saw in the world with women going to school, working, and being in society. <BR> Women during the time of the Taliban were forced to stay inside the house and could not go out unless they were with a man of blood or their husband. It's sad that these men were so extreme, but under Islam, this is not the way that the prophet Muhammed wanted; he wanted peace and unity with the world, it was the Taliban who wanted to bring back the world to the 7th century, and am I glad we got rid of the Taliban? Yes, but still in Afghanistan; beyond Kabul, women are still treated like crap because of warlords that have rules like the Taliban. Is this book worth reading? Of course, but try to read it with a open mind and understand how these men think.	2004-05-04
US	36430688	RS1UWW625CHS6	0452284724	511631376	Wizard and Glass (Revised Edition): The Dark Tower IV	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Definitely worth reading...	Dark Tower 4: Wizard and Glass. Now this is a step backward in the Tower series, but there are somethings I did find problems with. One thing I did not like was Roland's past being so long. It spreaded through 540 pages, which I personally thought that it could of been about 300 pages, but King stretched it like what Tom Clancy did it in Red Rabbit. But unlike Clancy, King took his time and created a world unlike we have ever seen which Clancy needs to do research to make his world as real as possible. Wizard and Glass takes off just a couple of moments after the third book, and of course they got off and now Roland tells his tale of love, and finding his place and fighting off Randall Flagg. The story is quite interesting, but I didnt like the tale of a sci-fi western, but I personally dont like Westerns so I didnt like the Western part. The rest of the story is telled rather well. The end is good, and is worth your time? yes.	2004-05-04
