US	36491720	RXTRWH1EBC2JP	0898702216	218209798	Evangelical Is Not Enough: Worship of God in Liturgy and Sacrament	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A brief, but compelling, apologia for the liturgy	Recently, several Evangelical Christians have converted to more traditional and sacramentally oriented churches.  The big headlines were that most of these converts were going over to Catholicism and to a lesser extent Eastern Orthodoxy and the Anglican Communion.  But, few seemed to notice that one of the main threads through all of these conversions was a strong desire for more meaningful worship after a rush by many conservative Evangelicals to make their services more contemporary.  Thomas Howard's book &quot;Evangelical Is Not Enough&quot; speaks perfectly to those longings and shows how the liturgy satisfies them.<br />Growing up in a conservative Protestant background, Howard felt that more sensual and liturgical brands of worship weren't &quot;spiritual&quot; or were nothing but a &quot;dead ritual.&quot;  Through a journey that spanned several years, Howard explains how the liturgical worship he used to view as a &quot;famine&quot; became a feast to the eyes, ears and touch.<br />Given the title, one would think that this is a fierce polemic on the inadequacy of Evangelicalism.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  While making sure to praise the Evangelicalism that nurtured him in the faith, he also critiques its deficiencies as someone who loves his fathers in faith so much that he must point them out because of that great love.  Howard anticipates virtually every objection that people from his background can make against liturgical worship and answers them briefly, but in a cogent manner.  <br />While this is a topic that can be extremely dry, Howard packages his views and spiritual journey in such magnificent prose that the reader is awakened to the drama that takes place at the seemingly hum-drum Mass, Divine Liturgy or Anglican services.  This book isn't a complete and thorough apologetic for liturgical worship that goes through every possible objection and answers them with copious footnotes and greek grammar.  It does provide for a breezy readthat is guaranteed to get you excited about worship, no matter what communion you hail from!	2004-01-27
US	36491720	RPP1T3PSWFMPS	093595211X	486808578	Apologia Pro Marcel Lefebvre (Apologia Pro Marcel Lefebvre)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Just The Facts...	In a controversial life such as that of Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre, usually the facts take a back seat to wild accusations, speculation and recriminations.  The Archbishop's case is no different.  He was accused of being a \\"dinosaur\\" (horror of horrors!), undermining papal rule and being a tool of the extreme right in European politics.  Michael Davies' three volume \\"Apologia Pro Marcel Lefebvre\\" cuts through all of the sound and fury and presents only the facts through interviews with the principals, reprints of articles in various Catholic periodicals, diaries etc.  One of the best things I got from these books was a real sense of objectivity.  Davies doesn't apologize for everything Lefebvre has done, he contextualizes them within the post-conciliar church.  It is a tragedy that so many dissenting theologians were allowed to run rampant and teach their errors that endanger souls without fear of reprisal while the Vatican seemed to cower at their attacks and fearful of the press while the SSPX, which could've been a strong boon for renewal withing the church, was suppressed. <br />I enjoyed the books, although at times they could be a dry read, and I think that it desperately needs to be re-released because the events in the third volume wrapped up almost 6 years before the Archbishop's excommunication.  Although I don't want to praise Lefebvre's actions in that matter, I would certainly benefit from Davies' insight into the situation.<br />All in all, I found these books to be very interesting and informative.  <...	2004-01-27
US	36491720	RI2JTBDHWSKM5	0965608611	846085130	Been There, Should've Done That II : More Tips for Making the Most of College	Books	5	58	59	N	N	perfect for the recent high school grad...	I recieved the first edition of this handy little book upon graduating from high school and read it cover-to-cover in an evening.  <br />The basic format of the book is a collection of quotes from college students giving helpful truisms concerning various areas of the college experience.  The editing and format is easy to read and well suited to any incoming freshman or seasoned college student.  <br />As someone who actively helped people find their way in college as a resident assistant, I can't recommend this book enough.  It explodes myths that many incoming freshman have, such as: college is one huge party, professors will always be looking over my shoulder like high school, college is solely about academics, mommy and daddy need will take care of getting everything signed, paid for etc.  <br />In short, its a perfect graduation gift.	2003-12-31
US	36491720	R3MWVBAC20LG5	0785242627	466335093	Foxe's Book Of Martyrs Nelson's Royal Classic	Books	2	29	51	N	N	Historical Importance = 5 stars  Actually history = 1 star	John Foxe's book of martyr's is a classic as far as historical importance is concerned.  With Queen Elizabeth solidifying Protestant power in England and suppressing the Catholic religion, John Foxe's propaganda linking the Protestant martyr's during Queen Mary's reign with the early martyr's of the ancient church became extremely popular.  The popularity of the book, along with the Reformation tradition of nationalism and xenophobia, helped spread hatred and fear of Catholics throughout England as traitors who were beholden to a foreign ruler.<br />It's relatively easy to see that the history takes a back seat to the &quot;spin&quot; after the deaths of early church martyrs (Foxe borrows slavishly from Eusebius' Church History for this) are recorded.  Amazingly enough, Foxe makes orthodox Christians out of the Albigensians, a group of heretics who, if transported to the 16th century, would've been burned at the stake by any Protestant cleric or ruler.<br />Foxe reserves the most venom for &quot;bloody&quot; Mary.  Although a legitimate monarch, she was not as skilled at the fine art of propaganda and Protestants, who had virtually mastered the art, exploited that.  Her first mistake was that she married a spanish man, leaving her wide open to xenophobic attacks by Protestants portraying her as someone who was subverting England through &quot;foreign influence.&quot;  Second, when a small minority of religious extremists tried to overthrow her legitimate rule and the traditional religion of the people, she responded by using the death penalty for heresy.  Protestants seized on this and claimed that they were being punished unjustly for maintaining &quot;biblical&quot; Christianity.  When Elizabeth was making martyr's out of Catholics (and in greater numbers than &quot;bloody&quot; Mary), Protestants appealed more to nationalist sentiment by saying that the Catholics were traitors trying to subvert their free state.  This worked masterfully to demean catholics in the eyes of the English, becuase instead of threatening some abstract theological concept, the catholics were said to be subverting the country.  Something that struck fear in every English man and woman.<br />Stuck in the middle of this is a brief apologia for John Calvin.  I'm pretty sure that this wasn't in the original edition of the Book of Martyr's, but the essay contains similar propaganda techniques.  Calvin is portrayed as a prophetic voice that was roughed up by the institutional church that cared more for authority than pure doctrine.  The essayist glosses over the cruelty and intolerance of his rule in Geneva and attempts to pin most of the blame for Michael Servetus' execution on Farel, claiming that Calvin wanted Servetus to repent and not to execute him (ignoring some of the more incidiary quotes in which he claimed that if Servetus came to Geneva, he wouldn't leave alive).  The essayist wraps it up by making the head scratching claim that Calvin was a &quot;friend of civil liberties.<br />The historical importance of Foxe's Book of Martyr's cannot be overstated.  It was hugely popular in its day and shaped England's attitude toward Catholic's for hundreds of years to come.  In fact, modern day heirs of John Foxe in the fundamentalist camp view this as almost on par with the scriptures themselves.  Although the Foxe's writing is almost transparently propaganda to all but the most committed fundamentalists today, it is still historically important towards understanding the mind set of the times and shouldn't be ignored.e eyes of the English, becuase instead of threatening some abstract theological concept, the catholics were said to be subverting the country.  Something that struck fear in every English man and woman.<br />Stuck in the middle of this is a brief apologia for John Calvin.  I'm pretty sure that this wasn't in the original edition of the Book of Martyr's, but the essay contains similar propaganda techniques.  Calvin is portrayed as a prophetic voice that was roughed up by the institutional church that cared more for authority than pure doctrine.  The essayist glosses over the cruelty and intolerance of his rule in Geneva and attempts to pin most of the blame for Michael Servetus' execution on Farel, claiming that Calvin wanted Servetus to repent and not to execute him (ignoring some of the more incidiary quotes in which he claimed that if Servetus came to Geneva, he wouldn't leave alive).  The essayist wraps it up by making the head scratching claim that Calvin was a &quot;friend of civil liberties.<br />The historical importance of Foxe's Book of Martyr's cannot be overstated.  It was hugely popular in its day and shaped England's attitude toward Catholic's for hundreds of years to come.  In fact, modern day heirs of John Foxe in the fundamentalist camp view this as almost on par with the scriptures themselves.  Although the Foxe's writing is almost transparently propaganda to all but the most committed fundamentalists today, it is still historically important towards understanding the mind set of the times and shouldn't be ignored.	2003-12-28
US	36491720	R37RU3JD1VZFVR	0310230055	993975616	Revelation Unveiled	Books	1	30	53	N	N	Puts the FUN in Fundamentalism	After a big, public black-eye over failed rapture predictions in 1981 and 1988 it was widely believed that the &quot;pre-tribulation rapture&quot; theory that was just under 200 years old at the time would finally be relegated to the dustbin of history as one of the more curious oddities of American fundamentalists.  <br />However, when Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins released their wildly popular best-selling series &quot;Left Behind,&quot; it re-energized the flagging school of prophecy and is now almost considered a cornerstone of orthodoxy within conservative evangelical churches.<br />To capitalize on these successes LaHaye re-released an older commentary he had produced on the Revelation with updated info and charts.  The packaging is slick and easy to understand.<br />The main problem is... well... with the numerous theological and historical gaffes.  He cannot seem to answer some of the most basic questions about why the letter was written to the 7 churches.  Why would St. John write a letter to 7 churches under going severe persecution about something that was completely unrelated (19 chapters at least) to the events at hand?  He prizes the &quot;literal&quot; method which interprets every passage in the literal since (unless the wording is hyperbolic in nature etc.) and claims that the church became corrupted by Celment of Alexandria and Augustine who prized the allegorical method of interpretation.  This is almost too silly to even comment on because the two church fathers mentioned above didn't interpret scripture allegorically always and didn't interpret literally always, they just believed that scriptures can have multiple interpretations.  Ironically, most of the New Testament writers uses the allegorical method to interpret the Old Testament (St. Paul seems to be a big fan of this method, see Romans 5 and 9, 1 Cor. 10, Galatians 4:21-31 etc.).  Moreover, LaHaye himself is forced to allegorize most of Revelation, even allegorizing the 7 churches to whomthe letter is written (something that indeed probably should be understood literally and requires a great leap to interpret allegorically).<br />The Catholic bashing also follows the typical fundamentalist formula of brutal &quot;straw-man&quot; arguments.  He takes a cue from the Lorraine Boettner handbook by putting out a list of Catholic &quot;additions&quot; to the gospel without commentary that is used to shock Fundamentalists and uninformed Catholics at how far Catholics have strayed from the &quot;true gospel.&quot;  The problem is that reasonably informed Catholics could have given an anwser to everyone of these &quot;additions&quot; had Mr. LaHaye just asked and, in fact, many works of Catholic apologists have been produced for the precise purpose of answering that particular list.  Second, the guilt-by-association argument is promoted heavily.  LaHaye gets a lot of mileage out of the fact that Jesuits educated the devout skeptic Voltaire, as if the mere fact that he was educated by Jesuits makes him an instant skeptic.  The &quot;guilt-by-association&quot; argument is used against virtually every contrary opinion (mainly amillennialists and postmillennialist) too.<br />Another big problem I had with it is that the book simply panders to the texts that LaHaye believes teach his belief in a &quot;Pre-Trib&quot; rapture without much discussion of other possible interpretations or biblical texts that flatly contradict him.  For instance, the New Testament is littered with texts that explicitly say that their will be a resurrection of the righteous and the wicked (John 6:39, 40, 44 55; 11:24; 12:48; Acts 24:15, Luke 11:31-32; Romans 14:10-12 etc.), which LaHaye doesn't even attempt to harmonize with his belief that Christians will be raptured 7 years before the rest of the world.  This method (sadly typical among most Fundamentalists) leads to a rather boring read for anyone wanting exciting biblical discussions.<br />The bottom line is that this isn't a very good commentary on Revelation by any standard.  It borrows way too much from popularizers of this particular rapture theory, it doesn't really prove its case, and all the information you'll get about groups that disagree is mud-slinging and guilt-by-association.	2003-12-16
US	36491720	R23NB5ZO0Y6YI8	0930462092	308862166	The Days of Vengeance: An Exposition of the Book of Revelation	Books	5	39	44	N	N	An amazing, somewhat flawed, commentary on Revelation	David Chilton's \\"Days of Vengence\\" is simply one of the most intricate and facinating commentaries on Revelation that I have ever read.  Chilton does this by asking simple questions that many commentators who believe in fantastic future calamities involving new world orders and such seem unwilling to even acknowledge: who was the letter written to?  what was the purpose of the letter?  what did the author mean when he said that the things happening in the letter would happen soon?  what do all the allusions to the Old Testament mean?  Once someone asks these questions and looks seriously for the answers than the dispensational position concerning a \\"pre-tribulation\\" rapture seems less and less plausible.<br />The book itself sets a standard for in-depth analysis.  Chilton convincingly shows that the symbols and Old Testament allusions are placed with great care by St. John and shows how all of the symbols place themselves within the flow of salvation history.  I was personally stunned by the richness with which he describes God's covenant with Israel, the \\"covenant lawsuit\\" structure of Revelation and the inaguration of the new covenant.  <br />The slight flaws of the book were the relatively few places in the book in which Chilton's Calvinist presuppositions drive his conclusions.  For instance when speaking of the possibility of being erased from the Book of Life, Chilton launches into a brief and very misguided defense of the docrine of Perseverence of the Saints.  The author also takes a needless detour bashing those who defend free-will by taking a tangent from one of the numerous verses that show God's soveriengty over human history in Revelation and then comparing it to some tract that he found in which the tract's author presents a position of borderline Pelagianism.  This is, at best, bad straw man argumentation.  I think it is excusable because the purpose of the book wasn't a defense of Calvinism, but in exposition of Revelation.  These minor details stick out only because they break with the overall work's dedication to sound and detailed exposition of the letter and the Bible itself.  In other words, they are not reflective of the work as a whole.<br />If you want to read the book for free, the Institute for Christian Economics has this book and numerous others at their website:<BR>[...]	2003-12-14
US	36491720	R2G4J7JDXUABKP	0761529241	83762458	Triumph: The Power and the Glory of the Catholic Church: A 2,000-Year History	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Popular History of the Church...	If you've read a high school history text book, you know only part of the story of the Catholic Church.  Most simply lump Catholicism in with all other religions (while not noting its impact on western civilization) and all dutifully point out inquisitions, crusades, bad popes and their political battles.  Usually, none of these incidents are put into the context of their respective times.<br />Enter \\"Triumph: The Power and The Glory of the Catholic Church,\\" a popularly written history of the faith.  With all of the fervency of a convert, Crocker shows how the anti-Catholic polemicists (Protestant, Atheist or otherwise) simply subscribe to propaganda and not history.  While Crocker doesn't make Popes like Alexander VI as anything more than a scoundrel, he shows how, in spite of his flaws, he carried on the Catholic tradition of supporting the arts and sciences. <br />Is the book, as some have put it, basically written using this formula: everything Catholic = good, everything else = bad?  Well, yes and no.  I answer \\"yes\\" in the sense that because so many histories have been written as polemics against the Catholic Church, Crocker has to contextualize and provide the Catholic response to several different events in Church history.  He doesn't settle for pat answers and actually uses documentation from sources that cannot be construed as pro-Catholic in any way.  I also say \\"no\\" because of the reasons provided above and the simple fact that Crocker, while writing with a sly wit that often makes great jokes at the expense of contra-Catholic polemicists, does not descend to the level of propaganda.<br />The book is written in a style that anyone can (and should!) read and is a wonderfully written popular response to the many people and institutions that do not look favorably on the one, holy, Catholic, and apostolic church.	2003-12-09
US	36491720	RHQXN5A6TK04H	089555464X	181969978	Europe and the Faith	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Catholic Christianity and Roman Civilization...	This old classic by English Catholic author/historian Hilaire Belloc provides a Catholic response to modernist and Protestant polemics against the Church.  Belloc shows that the Catholic Church was essential in perserving the knowledge and greatness of pagan antiquity, insuring that after the \\"fall\\" of the Roman Empire, European civilization would have another springtime (in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance).<br />Another central part of Belloc's thesis is that the Roman Empire never really \\"fell\\" to \\"superior\\" barbarian hordes as it has been presented in some textbooks.  In fact, the Roman Empire absorbed all tribes who came to then for the benefits of civilization.  Out of this New Barbarian Order came feudal Europe, formed by classical learning and Christianized by the Catholic church.  In the Dark Ages, the faith preserved this civilization while it was under attack from the Muslims, Magyars and Vikings in succession.  It was in these centuries that the seeds that would later flower in the Middle Ages and Renaissance were nurtured and protected.<br />Belloc concludes by showing the devestating impact (personal, economic and in government) that the Reformation had on European civilization (a thesis that he explores in greater detail in How The Reformation Happened and Characters of the Reformation).  He proclaims the chief of effect of the Reformation was \\"the isolation of the soul\\" and chief by-product was a progressive sense of dispair.  He then boldly states that Europe's former glory will be confined exclusively to history textbooks unless the continent returns to the Faith that shepherded and nurished its greatness.<br />I felt that this, like all of Belloc's books, was an excellent read that boldly defends Catholic truth and explodes many of the Protestant assumptions that are still latent in American and Northern European civilization over 80 years after the book's publication.	2003-12-08
US	36491720	R1RE9DRUTTQ0W0	0310234697	410592075	The Case for Faith: A Journalist Investigates the Toughest Objections to Christianity	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Interesting, if incomplete...	For those dipping their feet into the vast ocean of theist vs. atheist apologetics for the first time, The Case For Faith offers a great introduction to enduring problems with theism in general and Christianity in particular.<br />Unlike the book's forerunner The Case For Christ, The Case For Faith deals with problems that a believer is likely to hear about or has already been presented with.  More people are likely to ask a Christian &quot;If God is so good why does evil exist?&quot;  than a question about the corruption of New Testament manuscripts. <br />The book itself is a breezy read for most anyone who can read at a high school level.  The author uses 8 interviews with leading Christian apologists to weave together a response of sorts to some of the most tenacious problems that people of faith struggle with.  The answers are often anecdotal and by no means definitive, but they provide something to think about for both Christians and Atheists.  The author's journalistic style makes difficult concepts (such as the area of theodicy) much easier to understand and read than such better-reasoned apologetics from Aquinas and Augustine whose style often leave modern readers scratching their heads.<br />I think the main reason that this book is the target of either effusive praise or derision is the fact that some people view it as the be all and end all of apologetics.  This naturally would leave Christians saying &quot;well that way easy&quot; and not think about deeper issues or responses that athiests might give them and athiests saying &quot;hey, wait a minute!&quot; while not understanding that just a taste of the Christian response to their arguments and not the main course.	2003-12-08
US	36491720	R1UY81R4ZX7SF8	0142437301	512173793	The Power and the Glory (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Excellent Read	The Power and The Glory by Graham Greene is quite simply one of the best novels in 20th century English literature.  It is based on the author's travels in Mexico during the revolutionary uphevals of the first half of the 20th century.  <br />The setting is in a Mexican state that has outlawed the Catholic Church and forced all priests to either marry or be shot.  This leaves only two priests in the entire state: one captitulates and marries, the other is the whiskey priest (an alcholic who has, among other things, fathered an illegitamate child) who decides to try to escape.  Although most of the people he comes into contact with disdain his presence, he feels bound to serve them in his priestly capacity.  Even though he is a horrible example as a priest (and the children will most likely form their views of the Catholic faith from him), he still, by virtue of the sacrament of Holy Orders has the power to say Mass and give the body and blood of Christ to the people, hear their confessions, forgive their sins and baptize their children and feels duty bound to do these things despite the great risk to his safety and his own feelings of complete wretchedness and inadequacy.  <br />Hounding the whiskey priest's trail is the most pious of athiests, the lieutenant who sees the extermination of the Catholic Church and the priests in particular as the first step towards a new world free from superstition and the corruption (both real and imagined) that Church imposes on his native Mexico.<br />The book starts off slowly, but once it gets going, Greene makes it almost impossible to put down.  Although all of the main characters are either anonymous or known by their first name, Greene portrays them (and the Mexican state) so vividly that the reader almost feels like he/she is really a part of each scene (which might be why many of Greene's novels have been successfully translated to the silver screen).  John Updike relates in his introduction that a woman who endured the Mexican persecutions of the Church who read The Power and The Glory afterwards, reportedly said prayers for the soul of the whiskey priest at her next Mass.  I cannot think of a higher compliment to any author.<br />The highlight, for me anyway, was the exchanges between the lieutenant and the whiskey priest after the priest is captured.  The righteous indignation of the lieutenant and the gentle, erudite answers of the priest make the last few chapters of the book virtually impossible to put down.<br />I highly recommend The Power and The Glory as a great book exploring the topics of sin, grace, duty and sacrifice in a manner that appeals not only to Catholics but to people of all faiths or no faith at all.	2003-12-06
US	36491720	R28UQR678UR6OC	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	5	0	0	N	N	the book you hope you never have to use...	Ever wanted to learn how to use a defibrillator, leap from a motorcycle to a car or how to deliver a baby outside of hospital?  Then this is the book for you!  Even if you don't particularly want to learn how to successfully navigate the situtations listed above, the book is still a great read.  Virtually any impossible situation that you can remember from the movies is disected an easy-to-follow process.  You will have plenty of good laughs and stares of disbelief while paging through this book.	2003-12-03
US	36491720	R781JWXOT2JRV	078526163X	127270039	Eternal Security: Can You Be Sure	Books	1	21	35	N	N	A Head Scratching Read...	Every now and then I catch Charles Stanley while channel surfing.  He seems like a very nice, grandfatherly-type guy and as I was paging through the religion section of my local bookstore and found this book by him, my curiousity was struck and I decided to sit down and read it.  <br />I believe that Stanley's purpose was not to make a theological treatise and to aim squarely at the layman.  On one level, this would make the many logical and scriptural gaffes forgivable.  But since it is teaching an error to people who are by and large not as discerning as the more theologically astute, it makes the book downright dangerous.<br />For instance, under a heading concerning the history of the doctrine, Mr. Stanley does not concern himself with the early church at all, but fast-forwards more than a millennia-and-a-half to the controversies between the Calvinists and the Arminians that ultimately lead to the Synod of Dort.  The slight of hand trick makes it look like the Arminians (and consequently all Christian denomenations who teach conditional security) to be abandoning the historic Christian faith.  The big problem with this is that in overlooking the first 1500 or so years of Christianity covers the fact that no one taught this doctrine of Eternal Security (or Perseverence of the Saints) during that time and virtually every leading light of Christian theology during this time either ignored it because conditional security was assumed or openly repudiated Mr. Stanley's (and the more refined Calvinist version) beliefs.<br />One of the big sticking points for Mr. Stanley regarding the doctrine is an excessively legal understanding of the atonement.  Mr. Stanley believes that Christ was punished in our stead for sins (past, present and future) and that once we are declared 'not guilty' we are always 'not guilty'.  The problem is that this is purely speculative reasoning devoid of a scriptural point to prop it up (which is suprising since most people who believe this doctrine consider themselves 'Bible Christians').  Nowhere does it say that all our sins past, present and future have been forgiven forever (in fact 2 Peter 1:9 directly contradicts it).  What would be the point for Jesus' intersession of us if this were true?  Nowhere does it say that Jesus was punished for our sins; it does say that he suffered for our sins, but that's a big difference.  If our being &quot;born again&quot; is the result of a legal declaration of 'not guilty' one would think that the Bible would be rife with courtroom scenes, but it is not.  Instead justification, sanctification, salvation etc. are described in transformational terms and have many eschatological factors as well as present ones.  These theories form the backbone for what Mr. Stanley believes and always color his reading of scriptures contrary to what he believes.  To warn other Christians of their error without really proving the main prop to your beliefs is very dangerous and leaves him wide open for a thoughtful critique by any serious Christian.<BR>   <BR>That is just a sample of the various techniques Mr. Stanley uses to prove his doctrine.  I really cannot recommend this work in good conscience as it distorts and misinterprets Christian Scriptures and history and might actually influence people to succomb to sinful behaviors (he believes that no sin, no matter how heinous, can seperate us from God; this is contradicted by even a cursory reading of the scriptures).	2003-11-25
US	36491720	R3FDMR67D6RA7E	157392802X	564436967	The Happy Heretic	Books	3	3	14	N	N	Organized Religion = Bad, Secular Humanism = Good	...that's about the extent of what I learned from Judith Hayes \\"The Happy Heretic.\\"<br />But, I have to admit that as a conservative Catholic I did have a fun time reading the book, and I think that that was partially Ms. Hayes' point.<br />However, in defending her main point, namely that secular humanism will deliver us from all of the trouble in the world and that organized religion (far from helping out) causes the lion's share of that trouble, I believe that she is less than successful.  All of the favorite dead horses of the secular humanists are beaten yet again: the bad popes, ancient practices divorced from thier cultural context, the problem of evil, inquisitions and virtually everything the Southern Baptist Convention has said in the past couple of decades, etc.  Since the author refuses to interact with any of the numerous works of apologetics that have defended the traditional Christian viewpoint on the matters she presents, the dialogue between atheists and theists really isn't resolved or even moved forward.<br />While the author does point out the great contributions that Humanism has given to our civilization, she is less-than-forthcoming with any of its faults.  The way the author sells her philosophy, you would think that in addition to curing all of the world's ills, secular humanism would also make humanity smarter, taller, more attractive and stronger!  A typical example of this is her response to critiques pointing out the possible pitfalls of euthanasia are basically: \\"It won't happen if we all follow humanism so butt out religious types!\\"  This sounds suspiciously like the fundamentalism she claims to have chucked since she became enlightened.  Moreover, none of the numerous atrocities commited in the name of atheism over the past century aren't even mentioned, let alone given at least a brief apologia.<br />While I appreciated the humor, the attempt at converting me from my faith came off like a Billy Graham-style evangelistic rally: long on style, short on substance.  ...	2003-11-08
US	36491720	RAERCT21D176W	157392802X	564436967	The Happy Heretic	Books	3	4	14	N	N	Organized Religion = Bad, Secular Humanism = Good	...that's about the extent of what I learned from Judith Hayes \\"The Happy Heretic.\\"<br />But, I have to admit that as a conservative Catholic I did have a fun time reading the book, and I think that that was partially Ms. Hayes' point.<br />However, in defending her main point, namely that secular humanism will deliver us from all of the trouble in the world and that organized religion (far from helping out) causes the lion's share of that trouble, I believe that she is less than successful.  All of the favorite dead horses of the secular humanists are beaten yet again: the bad popes, ancient practices divorced from thier cultural context, the problem of evil, inquisitions and virtually everything the Southern Baptist Convention has said in the past couple of decades, etc.  Since the author refuses to interact with any of the numerous works of apologetics that have defended the traditional Christian viewpoint on the matters she presents, the dialogue between atheists and theists really isn't resolved or even moved forward.<br />While the author does point out the great contributions that Humanism has given to our civilization, she is less-than-forthcoming with any of its faults.  The way the author sells her philosophy, you would think that in addition to curing all of the world's ills, secular humanism would also make humanity smarter, taller, more attractive and stronger!  A typical example of this is her response to critiques pointing out the possible pitfalls of euthanasia are basically: \\"It won't happen if we all follow humanism so butt out religious types!\\"  This sounds suspiciously like the fundamentalism she claims to have chucked since she became enlightened.  Moreover, none of the numerous atrocities commited in the name of atheism over the past century aren't even mentioned, let alone given at least a brief apologia.<br />	2003-11-08
US	36491720	R347MSZG53L4XT	0060663723	848970811	Mormon America: The Power and the Promise	Books	4	20	24	N	N	A Peek Inside &quot;Mormon America&quot;	Non-Mormon America's conceptions of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints usually are one of four things: the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, The Osmonds, clean-living and family values.  What most outside of the church don't know is that the LDS faith is the most successful religion founded on American soil and, if current growth rates remain stable, will become the first major world religion to come about since Islam.  These facts alone should make thoughtful outsiders at least a little curious about what the Latter-Day Saints teach and why.<br />Enter Mormon America: The Power and The Promise by Joan K. and Richard Ostling which provides an excellent resource for those curious outsiders.<br />The book itself is written in an informative, well-documented and journalistic style (some of the chapters appeared as part of a Time magazine cover story).  Instead of a skeptic's condescendtion or a fundamentalist's hysterical &quot;hell fire and brimstone&quot; condemnation, the Ostings provide a fair overview of the Mormon's history, doctrine, practice and future.  For every instance of an odditiy, contradiction or embarrassing moment in the previously mentioned catergories, the author's provide the standard explanation given by LDS apologists in addition to the criticism given by both non-Mormons and Mormons alike.<br />On a personal level, I found the LDS concept of continuing revelation to be one of the most facinating parts of the book.  While it seemingly could provide a way to explain  uncomfortable practices from the past (i.e. polygamy, denial of the priesthood to African-Americans etc.), I would think it would undermine any attempt to form a stable basis for morality.<br />As a person who has grown up around Independence, Missouri and been on the fringes of Mormon culture (having several Mormon friends), I can say that this book is accurate (although not always comforting or &quot;faith promoting&quot; to Mormon's themselves).  It deals fairly with sore spotsbetween Mormon's and people of other faiths and should help greatly in increasing understanding between the two often antagonistic camps of Mormonism and traditional Christianity.	2003-11-07
US	36491720	RUJJRSZVRJHL2	189062621X	991819171	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes	Books	4	10	14	N	N	A collection of interesting essays...	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes by David Horowitz is a book that will either make you smile or angry beyond belief, such is the nature of the topic and the polemical tone that resonates througout the book.  Most of the essays critique how the radical left has handled racial politics from the 60's up until the time of the books publication (late 90's).  The essays themselves are well-written and (although the tone is still polemical) cogently argued responses to the usually overly-emotional arguments leveled against conservative racial politics.<br />Horowitz himself brings a unique perspective to these essays since he used to espouse radical Marxist views and converted to the Conservative camp in the 80's.  His insider expose of 60's radicals is a needed antidote to a subject that is almost always hagiographically handled in media.<br />While the material is dated (it comes from around the time of the Clinton impeachment hearings), it still provides several great salvos against the racial preferences and shows how it is simply an unacceptable policy in a pluralistic society like the United States.	2003-11-04
US	36491720	R24FHEWYIMS2TB	0385479670	701055253	Catechism of the Catholic Church: Complete and Updated	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Everything you've ever wanted to know about Catholicism	If you ever wanted to know what the Church teaches and why, you can't go wrong with this new edition of the catechism.  The catechism is written in a coincise and easy-to-understand manner making even the most perplexing doctrines and moral stances understandable to everyone from the layman to the advanced theologian.  While it is not a thorough apologia for any of the topics mentioned, it provides a good foundation for anyone, Catholic or otherwise, to understand church teachings.	2003-11-04
US	36491720	R3B0ID345EDQ9Z	1576730360	129268418	I Kissed Dating Goodbye: A New Attitude Toward Relationships and Romance	Books	3	10	14	N	N	The First Salvo in The "Dating Debate"	When it was released a while back, 'I Kissed Dating Goodbye' was hailed by much of the Evangelical Christian world as the biblical model for marriage preperation.  It swept church camps by storm and soon many a teenager were making courtship vows and promises to abstain not only from sex until marriage (which I fully agree with) but also stuff like kissing and other intimate activities like it.  Now that the initial 'dust' that followed its publication has settled, many in the Christian world are taking a closer look at it and finding that A + B does not equal C in Mr. Harris's equation.<br />First I must point out the many positive aspects of this book.  He points out explicitly what many conservative Christians seem somewhat timid of accusing the modern world of: dehumanizing sexual relations and destroying the beauty of sex by making self-gratification the only aim of it and a lazsie faire approach to dating and marriage that has destroyed American homes, leaves people in emotional anguish,  and scarred our children.  For that along Mr. Harris deserves a hearty 'Amen' and a pat on the back.  Few are courageous enough to clearly point out the evils of this behavior.<br />The problem I have with it is the proposed solution.  While Mr. Harris strenuously avoids calling dating a sin, by implication, he basically says that dating is not God's way.  While I would agree that the level to which dating has sunk recently is appaling and is definitely sinful, the author fails to prove to me that, given proper boundaries, dating is inherently worse than courtship.  Consider this: the author points out that the emotional attachments that result from dating can injure people emotionally.  However, if someone courts a person and ultimately they do not marry, how can both people avoid emotional turmoil?  The problem is that even the author's model of courtship, which purports to keep temptation and emotional involvement to a minimum cannot prevent it because it involves emotional risk, like EVERY relationship.  Every relationship you have or will be in invovles a risk emotionally and spiritually.<br />In conclusion, I think the author made great points, but his conclusions are overly-simplistic.	2003-10-14
US	36491720	R1W6M27N5VB2FH	0618346244	669379389	The Lord of the Rings. 3 Vol. Set	Books	5	4	4	N	N	one volume to rule them all...	I have to admit that I hadn't read the books before the films were released.  Even after seeing the first film, I wasn't a fan.  However, my former roommate's enthusiasm for the series (he bought the DVD the day of its released) and a second viewing of The Fellowship of the Ring made me a convert.  The books themselves astounded me with their depth, moral quality and sheer imagination.  A book that I had previously associated with geeks who rolled die with more than 6 sides made me think about questions like the nature of good and evil and whatnot, all within the confines of a thrilling narrative.  If you are wary about the book, check it out for yourself.  Its a great read and adds even more depth to your viewing of the excellent films.	2003-10-07
US	36491720	R3D7BP119K071Z	0310241820	64463183	Bible Jesus Read, The	Books	5	6	7	N	N	a wonderful excursion into the Old Testament	The Old Testament stands as an enigma to post-modern Western culture.  Although it contains a highly relevant message, it is wrapped in the customs, wars and seemingly endless geneologies of an ancient people. <br />This brings us to author Philip Yancey who, like most people (Christian, or otherwise) had an aversion to the Old Testament.  This continued until a writing assignment required him to read the books, songs and prophecies in-depth bringing the overall message of the Old Testament front and center to him.<br />The Bible Jesus Read is by no means a complete survey of the Old Testament.  Yancey picks Job, the Psalms, Deuteronomy, Ecclesiates and the prophets and gleans some basic themes form each in a powerful essay format.  But it is a great read!<br />The author brings up the most common questions that the layman has about the Old Testament (Why does the God of the Old Testament seem so unlike that of the New?  etc.) and recounts his personal reflections on them.  While he never provides a cut-and-dry answer to any of the questions presented, the journey of personal reflection is what really elightens.  You will come away with a better appreciation of what the Old Testament has to offer and have some misconceptions resolved.<br />The Bible Jesus Read is a triumph for the author.  It takes an extraordinarily difficult subject that many people aren't interested in at all and turns it into an immensely enjoyable reading experience.  I was in a condominium in Colorado after an exhausting day of skiing when I was given this book by a friend.  Although I was tired and was planning on hanging out and watching a movie with some friends, I was glued to the book.  By the time I had to go to bed, I had practically finished the book!  It is truly a joy to read and has sent me on a search to devour as many of the author's books as I can.	2003-10-03
US	36491720	RBD2OWPKHBKVD	0830815554	134412653	The Race Set Before Us: A Biblical Theology of Perseverance & Assurance	Books	3	15	21	N	N	The Calvinist Giveth, and the Calvinist Taketh Away...	After hearing that this book was essentially the book to read concerning the doctrine of final perseverence, I was excited to read this book and hoped to be intellectually stimulated by their arguments even though I, as a Catholic, don't see eye-to-eye with their viewpoint.  There were several strong points to their arguments, but ultimately those were concerning points which I was already in agreement with the authors.<br />To start, I thought the authors made excellent points with the irenic tone of the book, the necessity of enduring faith and obedience.  This is a topic in which polemics frequently get very nasty, very quickly and the book wisely avoided this route and sought to go for the hard biblical evidence.  Secondly, they did a good job of debunking the major planks of the \\"free grace\\" position (only a single act of faith secures salvation forever, sans obedience love and even continuing belief).  Its nice to see Protestants affirm the fact that Jesus wasn't kidding when he told the rich young man he had to obey the commandments to inherit eternal life or that people have to \\"endure to the end\\" to be saved. <br />Moreover, I thought the authors did an excellent job of pointing out that salvation in the New Testament is primarily an escahtological event rather than a one-time occurance.<br />So why the 3 star review?<br />Basically, if you wanted to be convinced of the truth of the Calvinist doctrine of perseverence than this is probably not the book for you.  The authors spend most of their time debunking the \\"free grace\\" position than actually proving the case for eternal security.  Consequently, their reading of Romans 8:29-39 and John 6 & 10 go basically unchallenged when there are perfectly logical explanations for each text.<br />In addition, the main framework with which they view salvation (the already/not-yet tension in soteriology in the NT) is primarily viewed in contrast to the free grace position.  The authors don't show how their view of thetension contrasts with those who deny Perseverence of the Saints, but still agree that such a tension exists.  Frankly, I cannot see how they find any \\"not-yet\\" in their tension when all that falls in that category inevitably will happen.  This leads the authors to numerous vacillations between the trying to keep the unconditional election unconditional and the contional perseverence conditional.  It ultimately leads them to make the conditional perseverence clauses subservient to the unconditional promises (something the authors repeatedly condemn Arminians and \\"free grace\\" theologians for).<br />The use of warning and admonition texts was also extremely selective, as one reviewer noted.  This becomes painfully obvious when the author, while pointing to the enduring nature of the faith in Hebrews 11, fails to note the faith that failed to endure to the end, that of Israel (hebrews 11:29).  This also colors their view of the NT texts that speak of Israel's apostasy.<br />Finally, there is a problem with this book that invariably follows any attempt to focus on one of the 5 points independent of the other 5.  Since they are so logically tight, the points don't make much sense outside the other 5.  But since the authors are conentrating on the fifth point, the authors have to assume a lot of things with out properly establishing them or answering counter arguments (i.e. calvinist predestination, limited atonement and the penal substitution theory).<br />As a brief side note, the anti-sacramental leanings so color their view of the Scriptures that they make incredible gaffes in scholarship.  After quoting John 3:5-6 they say it is obvious that people cannot see the kingdom of God without being born by the Spirit (*slaps forehead*).<br />While it is well written and interesting.  Ultimately the vacillating back and forth with \\"already/not-yet\\" falls on its face when they discuss election.  However, it is still an interesting book and is well worth the money no matter what view you hold.  Another interesting thing that will certainly cause more controversy with Protestants in the future is their view of good works.  While they affirm that faith is the only thing that can make us right with God, they also say that good works are necessary for inheriting the kingdom of God.  The authors maintain there is no contradiction, but don't attempt to deal with this in detail.  This leaves me interested to read more of what they have to say about justification.	2003-09-24
US	36491720	R2FRFSO8LDNCBG	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic Steinbeck...	East of Eden is easily one of Steinbeck's best novels (and that's saying something considering how many great books he's wrote).  The novel itself is an allegory following the Biblical accounts about the fall of man in the garden of Eden and Cain and Abel set in rural California.  Although the book is quite long, its a fast and easy read.  The only problem I had with the book is that Steinbeck, at times, tends to make the themes (free will vs. destiny) and the allegory a bit overly-obvious.  But this is a minor point and its a great book (Steinbeck won the Nobel Prize shortly after this novel).  I would highly recommend it and am glad that Oprah has brought this book out of the required reading lists for high school english and back into the public eye.	2003-09-23
US	36491720	R3MM9KKKMI3PJU	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Best Book I Was Ever Forced To Read...	Twice, once in a Junior High English Class and again in High School I was required to read John Steinbeck's \\"Of Mice and Men.\\"  Each time I have read it since, I have enjoyed it more and more.  It is a brief, easy-to-read but emotionally resonant novel about two migrant workers set in the California countryside.  As with most of Steinbeck's classic work, the prose is very discriptive while not being clunky or overly verbose.  The themes of friendship and brotherly love are apparent on every page and aren't as emotionally manipulative as many books that try to be today.  I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a great read.  Unlike many alleged \\"classics\\" I've been forced to read in class its actually a great book and I had no problem reading it outside of class (I couldn't say as much for A Farewell To Arms, but oh well :-) ).  I would recommend this book for anyone from a mature junior high reader up.  The violence might be a little much for someone younger than that (and might be a reason why the book has been, unfortunately, banned so many times).	2003-09-23
US	36491720	RBMZ883P7OI3G	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Spiritual Counseling In Reverse...	The Screwtape Letters is a classic whose wit, clever premise, and thought provoking themes have engaged the intellect of many readers for nearly half a century.  There's not too much I can say about this book that others haven't, but I would recommend it to anyone (Christian or otherwise) who wants a great read.  The &quot;chapters&quot; (letters between Screwtape and Wormwood) are brief and easy to understand, but have a depth that most novels can only hope for.  As a final sidenote, this edition of The Screwtape Letters contains the essay &quot;Screwtape Proposes a Toast&quot; which Lewis wrote after the book became widely known.	2003-09-16
US	36491720	R3I6OW7A0ZJIJ0	0801002060	48521031	The Works of James Arminius: The London Edition (3 Volumes)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	If you want to know what Arminius taught, read his works...	There's probably not a single Christian theologian who is as misrepresented as James Arminius (except for maybe Augustine).  Most critiques of his theology focus on the more extreme descendents of his teaching and almost never interact with his works on there own.  Most don't even quote him!  <br />So how did this humble and devout man become so hated in many evangelical circles?  Arminius studied under Theodore Beza and drew large crowds in the Netherlands with his expositional preaching.  However, one day two ministers came from a debate with a Catholic humanist named Dirck Coornhert, whom they felt exposed Beza's supralapsarianism as making God the author of sin, and asked Arminius to analyze the charges and refute them.  After careful study, Arminius concluded that the supralapsarian theory, and Calvinist predestination in general, contradicted the Bible.  Although no one refuted his arguments directly, that didn't stop people from attacking him publicly.  Finally, Arminius asked for a national Synod to resolve the question.  He died awaiting the trial.  Eventually a Synod (at Dort in Holland) was called and basically condemned Arminius' followers in a kangaroo court-style.  <br />Although the scholastic style of writing that Arminius employs is a bit tough for the modern theological reader and torture for the layman.  These works are essential to understanding how the Bible explains the tension between the man's will and God's grace.  In addition, few Arminian commentaries or systematic theology books come even close to the careful exegesis and irenic spirit displayed by Arminius.<br />The highlights, in my opinion, are his declaration of sentiments (which would be the best introduction to his works for the layman) and his analysis of Romans 7 and 9.  His exegesis of both chapters is rarely interacted by Calvinists.<br />...	2003-09-15
US	36491720	R37USUD74WQR72	1579181244	610993873	Not by Bread Alone: The Biblical and Historical Evidence for the Eucharistic Sacrifice of the Catholic Mass	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Sungenis Style	All of the books written (or edited) by Robert Sungenis are all basically in the same vein.  Slowly cover every inch of ground Biblically, linguistically and historically; then, systematically destroy the opponents arguments.<br />It worked in Not By Faith Alone and Not By Scripture Alone and it works well here too.<br />Mr. Sungenis explains the nature of God's covenant and the atonement in the Old and New Testaments and applies it to the theology of the Mass and the Real Presence.  Finally, he develops the theology of the Eucharist historically through the writings of the church fathers.  Through the course of the book, he shows how the Protestant (and Liberal Catholic)  positions are simply unworkable Biblically or historically.<br />If you are really interested in theology then dig in.  It is written at an advanced laymans level.  Its exhaustive, encyclopedic scope might intimidate some readers, but I encourage anyone to read it.  The theology of the Lord's Supper is central to the Christian life, so study it carefully and I guarantee you will profit greatly from it.	2003-09-10
US	36491720	R14RGAMKNM77IO	0895553872	176184474	The Catholic Controversy: A Defense of the Faith	Books	5	38	38	N	N	The Catholic Controversy	Up until the time of St. Francis de Sales, the printing press had been used as a battering ram for reformers of all stripes to destroy christendom.  <br />However, with the start of St. Francis de Sales' mission to the French Calvinists that changed dramatically.  When people refused to listen to him because of contempt or fear of reprisal, he printed tracts and slipped them under doors or put them up on public squares to bring the Calvinists back to the Faith.<br />The result: nearly 72,000 French whose parents abandoneded the Faith a generation ago were brought back to the Catholic Church.   <br />If you read this book (a collection of the tracts St. Francis wrote), you'll see exactly how it happened.  The arguments are cogent, simple, easy-to-follow and strike at the heart of whatever matter they address.  The arguments against Protestantism in general and Calvinism in particular are relevant and still thorns in the side of the Reformed apologetic several hundred years later.  If you're Catholic or Protestant you owe it to yourself to read this collection of tracts!	2003-09-05
US	36491720	R2ZM13U07VI5	0891072330	329719457	A Christian Manifesto	Books	4	25	31	N	N	Standard Schaeffer...	Like most works by Schaeffer A Christian Manifesto contains Schaeffer's standard rundown of Western Civilization after the Reformation.  If you've read any of his books you probably know his take on things.  However, the reason I would recommend this book is his emphasis on how Christian truth is not just for Sunday mornings.  It affects every facet of our lives, including politics; which, prior to the 80's was a field that most Evangelicals had previously been reluctant to enter.  His insight into the acceptance of abortion in Western culture is unique and must be read by anyone who wants to understand the issue.  <br />With these good points, I must point out that some of his historical analysis, with regard to the Reformation, is definitely faulty.  He tries to point out how political activism of the Reformers insured the success of the Reformation in Northern European nations.  Then he tries to tie it to peaceful (to an extent) anti-abortion activism.  His historical analysis is so scant because he probably wouldn't want to point out that the reason the Reformation was successful in those countries because the reformers themselves promised a select group of nobles absolute power and free reign to loot Catholic lands.  Once the rulers were in the hands of the reformers they could enforce whatever they wanted to.<br />Despite flaws like this  felt that overall it was a good, thought provoking read.	2003-08-30
US	36491720	R2OPAXFXCNTBZ	0891072926	940952346	How Should We Then Live? The Rise and Decline of Western Thought and Culture	Books	4	6	21	N	N	Great Diagnosis, Strange Cure...	This is one of the best books to point out the slow break from Christianity that has pulled Western Civlization into a moral tailspin.  If you want to know why a nation with every mark of an advanced culture can approve of abortion without batting an eye, buy this book.<br />The problem is that he presents a distorted view of the Reformation and thus makes a faulty case for the cure as a return to &quot;Reformation Christianity.&quot;  How does he do this?  Well for starters he flat-out ignores the fact that Sola Scriptura is almost a guarantee of the religious relativism he strenuously condemns (how can it not, any possible interpretation can be thrust upon a text without an authoritive interpretation).  He strangely claims that the Reformation lead to Democracy, which, considering that every nation that sided with the Reformers did so out of greed and desire for absolute power is strange to say the least.  One of the negative aspects of the Reformation that he does address is that everywhere the Reformation took hold edured destruction of art and wholesale looting of monestaries on a massive scale.  He tries to answer this charge by saying that the destruction pertained, for the most part, only to people who owned the art and images themselves.  While it might be true for some of the cases, it makes no sense to apply this to the numerous cases of destruction and looting of monestaries, churches and church lands (along with numerous instances of martyrdom among the clergy in those lands).<br />While I would wholely recommend the book to anyone who wants to know how are culture descended into relativism.  However the author's biases color his view of history to a degree that it might make him uncredible in the eyes of more historically oriented observers.	2003-08-26
US	36491720	R2TUVRQWS02796	0736902082	417546197	Reasoning from the Scriptures with Catholics	Books	2	37	54	N	N	The book that lead me to the Catholic Church	When I first read this book three years ago, I had already read and profited from several of Rhodes' other books.  I had never really viewed Catholicism as an anti-biblical religion, however, with my Protestant background I had always felt that there was something &quot;weird&quot; about it.  So I decided to check out his critique of Catholicism.<br />After reading it, I came away with the view that something was definitely more &quot;weird&quot; with Protestant theology than Catholic theology and that lead me to research the topic more closely and, eventually, convert to the Catholic Church.<br />So how could a book so thoroughly dedicated to making people not want to be Catholic, turn a person into a devout Catholic?  Well for starters misleading quotes, ignoring or downplaying scirptures that directly contradict the author's views and slipping in numerous unproved assertions as though they were fact.<br />For instance, Rhodes insists on the idea of the perspicuity (clearness) of Scripture and that although not every verse is clear, the main doctrines are clear(saying that &quot;in the Bible the main things are the plain things and the plain things are the main things&quot;).  But when he tries to answer the assertion that the Bible nowhere says that its the final authority on matters of faith and practice, he jumps back and says that there doesn't need to be an explicit statement in the Bible teaching Sola Scriptura.  Wait a minute!  What happened to the clearness of Scripture?  Of all things, that should be a &quot;plain thing.&quot;  Moreover, Rhodes doesn't even attempt to deal with Phillip's preaching to the Ethiopian eunuch in Acts 8.  An instance that directly contradicts his doctrine of perspicuity.<br />This sort of analysis carries over into his specific explainations of verses.  Consider Acts 2:38:<br />&quot;Peter replied, &quot;Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receivethe gift of the Holy Spirit&quot;<br />He starts his explanation by saying: &quot;Admittedly, this is not an easy verse to interpret.  But a basic principle of Bible interpretation is that difficult passages should be interpreted in light of easy, clear verses.&quot;  Now lets think about this for a second, is what Peter is saying to the Jews really all that unclear?  It certainly seems to be a simple response to a simple question the Jews asked (&quot;Brothers, what shall we do?&quot;) after being affected by Peter's preaching.  The way he &quot;answers&quot; this is by appealing (selectively, I might add) to a nuance in the Greek language and by piling on verses that emphasize faith in salvation(but never faith ALONE).<br />Explanations like this can be found in virtually every chapter.  The only way this book will convince you that the Catholic Church is wrong is if you are only looking for something to confirm what you believe to be true.  While I respect his desire to share the good news with us Catholics and his overall curteous manner.  I still cannot recommend this as a good exposition of the Protestant position (or, more correctly, the Dipensational Protestant position) or a good critique of the Catholic position.  Save your money.	2003-08-25
US	36491720	R1L443CX30MWUV	1556610912	269892823	Life in the Son	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Good explanation of conditional security	Life in the Son is a good critique of Eternal Security that doesn't contain much of the polemics that are so common in many books and articles (on both sides) on the issue of Eternal Security.  Shank explains the key verses that always become flashpoints in debates in an easy to understand manner.  There are a few problems with his book that I would like to point out.  For instance, he seems to concentrate more on contradictory Calvinist commentaries of the verses rather than explaining the verses themselves.  But all in all, its a pretty good book.	2003-08-25
US	36491720	R25FBHLEK7CY7Y	0842313354	136742732	Chosen by God	Books	3	14	24	N	N	Great introduction to Reformed Theology	For the budding theologian, Chosen By God is the best introduction to Reformed Theology that a person can purchase.  If you are already knowledgable in this field of theology you probably won't want it because the arguments don't go into much depth philosophically or exegetically.  The tone of the book is irenic and the polemics that normally temper the Reformed apologetic are thankfully absent.<br />That said I feel that the beginning theologian should be warned about a few things:<br />1) Like most Reformed books on predestination, Dr. Sproul heavily promotes Romans 9:1-23 but cuts off St. Paul before he can develop his point completely in chapters 10 and 11.  The three chapters form an entire discourse on the status of the Jews and the righteousness of God and shouldn't be understood in a disjointed fashion. The reason the Calvinist has to avoid Romans 11 is simple: if the Jews can be cut off and the Genitles ingrafted in and vice versa, the notion of absolute predestination (especially Perseverence of the Saints) can't stand and makes St. Paul contradict himself.<br />2) The subtle implication that Catholics are Semi-Pelagian is infuriating to anyone remotely familiar with the historical issue. While reading I kept thinking: \\"Hey, we condemned Semi-Pelagianism and Pelagianism before Sola Fide was ever invented.\\"<br />3) On his section on the assurance of salvation.  He comes close to addressing one of the greatest problems with Eternal Security: \\"the people who are not saved, but \\"know\\" that they are saved.\\" In other words, how can people who exhibit every aspect of Christian living fall away?  The thorn in the side of the Reformed apologetic is that if Perseverence of the saints is true, then no Christian can really know if he or she is saved or not.  This is because the superficial (or some people say \\"professing, but not possessing Christian\\") has every earmark of real Christianity, for instance, these people were:<br /> They are said to have believed (Luke 8:13); been a branch attached to the vine (John 15:2); received the gospel and stood firm in it (1 Cor. 15:1); been reconciled through Christ's body (Col. 1:22); been enlightened; tasted of the heavenly gift; been made partakers of the Holy Spirit (Heb. 6:5); been sanctified by the blood of the covenant (Heb. 10:29); been bought by Jesus (2 Pet. 2:1); and escaped the corruption of the world by knowing our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ (2 Pet. 2:20). Yet these people did not persevere. <br />Calvinists say that the people described in these verses were therefore obviously never true Christians.  The problem becomes acute when the Christian compares himself to these people mentioned in Scripture.  If the superficial ones can be all of the things listed above and still fall away, what assurance do they have?  Unfortunately, Dr. Sproul skirts around the issue by making a distinction between true and false assurance.<br />But I digress, since this is just an introduction, I didn't expect Dr. Sproul to address these issues .  However, if you are looking for a great introduction to Reformed theology, you can't do any better than this one	2003-08-23
US	36491720	R30LSWSHB2DKMR	0140433740	912187649	Apologia pro Vita Sua (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of the best autobiographies in print....	Written as a response to sladerous accusations of lying and insincerity, Cardinal Newman composed one of the best autobiographies in the English language.  To properly defend himself, he develops the history of his religous opinions from his earliest memories, through Oxford movement and finally to his conversion to the Catholic Church.  Along the way he gives the reader some of the best prose that has been employed to descrbe religious experience.  The book concludes with a point-by-point refutation to the arguments of Rev. Kingsley, that incidentally contains some of the best arguments against Sola Scriptura and other guiding principles behind Protestantism.<br />After publication, Newman's Apologia helped raise the esteem of Catholics in the eyes of the English people and helped make him a Cardinal. I whole-heartedly recommend this to anyone looking for a moving spiritual autobiography.	2003-06-10
US	36491720	R3Q3M5SIRYA0PR	0140433740	912187649	Apologia pro Vita Sua (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One of the best autobiographies in print....	Written as a response to sladerous accusations of lying and insincerity, Cardinal Newman composed one of the best autobiographies in the English language.  To properly defend himself, he develops the history of his religous opinions from his earliest memories, through the Oxford movement and finally to his conversion to the Catholic Church.  Along the way he gives the reader some of the best prose that has been employed to descrbe religious experience.  The book concludes with a point-by-point refutation to the arguments of Rev. Kingsley, that incidentally contains some of the best arguments against Sola Scriptura and other guiding principles behind Protestantism.<br />After publication, Newman's Apologia helped raise the esteem of Catholics in the eyes of the English people and helped make him a Cardinal. I whole-heartedly recommend this to anyone looking for a moving spiritual autobiography.	2003-06-10
US	36491720	R23VAB5U9GSIMU	1579180558	843012855	Not by Scripture Alone: A Catholic Critique of the Protestant Doctrine of Sola Scriptura	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Another great volume from Sungenis and pals...	In his characteristic style, Robert Sungenis leaves no stone unturned in his salvo against Sola Scriptura.  The biblical verses (slim at best) that are marshalled to support the Protestant view of Sola Scriptura are examined under a microscope and shown that they cannot support sola scriptura.  Arguments from Protestant authors (John MacArthur, James White, RC Sproul, John Armstrong, Norman Geisler etc.) are systematically debunked.  I read this volume with doubts about the truth of Sola Scriptura, but I wasn't for fully rejecting it.  Now I cannot accept Sola Scriptura as a valid rule of faith.<br />The only real criticism that I have of this book is ironically the same criticism of one of the books this volume rebutts.  Like \\"Sola Scriptura! The Protestant Position on the Bible\\"  the essay format of the book tends to overlap ideas, making the book overly redundant.  Although it is not as guilty of this as \\"Sola Scirptura!\\" (and to a greater extent, \\"Justification by Faith ALONE\\"), it still is a weak point, in an otherwise outstanding work.<br />As a post-script, many critics of this book have claimed that the authors didn't understand sola scriptura.  While this is the standard condescending response to any critique of Reformed theology, it must be pointed out that this conclusion is completely unwarranted.  First, many of the authors themselves were of the Reformed persuasion and then converted to Catholicism (Sungenis himself went to Westminster Theological Seminary, a stronghold of Reformed theology).  Second, before offering a critique on any aspect of Sola Scriptura, they quote what leading Protestant sources (i.e. RC Sproul, James White and The Westminster Confession of Faith) have said on that aspect before delivering their critique.	2003-06-07
US	36491720	R2TAU9CPCM9WHJ	0851513824	897051411	The Death of Death in the Death of Christ: A Treatise in Which the Whole Controversy about Universal Redemption is Fully Discussed	Books	2	26	83	N	N	The best work on limited atonement....	While this is the best and most exhaustive work on limited atonement I've ever read, it simply isn't very convincing at all.  Owen sends forth several texts that speak of Christ redeeming the church or his people in particular and then bases how everyone who should view the atonement on these passages, making the so called &quot;universal passages&quot; subservient to the &quot;particular passages.&quot;  The fallacy of this is obvious.  First, although any good Arminian will concede the plain meaning of the particular passages, he/she would skillfully point out that not a single text in the Bible states that Christ died for ONLY his people.  Moreover, any skilled exegete would point out that Paul also said that Christ loved him and gave himself up for him, but not ONLY Paul.  <br />Owen's worst performance has to be in his explanation of 2 Peter 2:1.  Instead of submitting to the plain meaning of the text, Owen tries to shift the burden of proof by trying to say that &quot;Sovereign Lord&quot; cannot refer to Christ (although the greek word despoten is used to refer to Christ and earthly masters just as the word kurios is) and &quot;bought&quot; cannot refer to redemption (although 1 Cor 7:23 &amp; 6:20, Rev 5:9 specifically refer to redemption in the New Testament).  Moreover, if bought does not refer to Christ's redemption, why would these people be lost in the first place?  While his attempt to make &quot;all men&quot; into &quot;some men&quot; are weak at best, his performance on 2 Peter 2:1 is inexcusable and should serve as a warning to anyone (Calvinist or Arminian) who would impose his or her presuppositions onto the text.  <br />If you want to learn more about the doctrine of limited atonement, this is the book for you.  It's written in an exhaustive (and unfortunately, very dull) manner.  However, don't let this book be the last work you read on the atonement, John Goodwin's &quot;Redemption Redeemed&quot; is a good Arminian explaination of this most important doctrine.	2003-05-26
US	36491720	R1QSU6Y3M86WKH	0825431654	786623366	The Doctrines That Divide: A Fresh Look at the Historic Doctrines That Separate Christians	Books	3	13	37	N	N	If you're going to write a book about Baptist theology...	...don't place it under the disguise of objectivity! The book misleads the reader into thinking that he/she will get a fair overview of various doctrines that are causing schism (strangely enough he doesn't address Sola Scriptura, quite possibly the #1 cause of schism, but I digress).  Instead you'll get the Reformed Baptist position, some mud slinging and guilt-by-association for the other position, then a hasty rebuttal of the opposing position (this was especially the case on the section on baptism, which didn't even review one of the key texts for baptismal regeneration: Acts 22:16).<br />If you're just getting into theology and agree with the Reformed Baptist perspective of scripture, than you might find this book very interesting and helpful (Lutzer has some cogent arguments in the Christological chapters).  But please, don't let the caricatures that he sets up as Catholic theology color your view of Catholics, there are much better defenses of our view points than Lutzer will let on.	2003-05-24
US	36491720	R1QPJW0T6MAS57	0764225219	659539617	Chosen But Free	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Better than what the Calvinists reviewers claim...	...not as good as what the Ariminian reviewers claim.  Its not very hard to prove from scripture that God loves everyone, that He wants everyone to be saved, and that he is sovereign over everything; unfortunately, Geisler does it in a way that probably won't persuade any Calvinists of the weakness of their position(I know it didn't when I used to be one!).  <br />The real weakness of the book is that it lacks in-depth biblical exegesis.  Basically, for each doctrine in the TULIP, there is a brief chapter that outlines the doctrine, lists a few passages that seem to support the Calvinist position, responds to them briefly and then list a few passages supporting free-will.  While his treatment of the hotly disputed passages in Romans 9 was sufficient to debunk the Calvinist assertions about the text, it was not the treatment that such a difficult and intriguing passage deserves (sidenote: Arminius' treatment is available online and is MUCH better and more thought out than Geisler's).  The other great weakness of this book was his defense of Eternal Security.  While any defense of a doctrine not contained in the Bible is going to be weak, Geisler's brief treatment tries desperately to turn the plain meaning of so many texts on their heads (for example, how does he know that the people's faith that Hymeneus and Philetus shipwrecked was a false faith? Does Paul ever say that?).<br />This seems to be the big problem for Arminians scholars countering Calvinists lately.  Sadly most have relied on heavy handed polemics or rapid-fire proof texting instead of good scholarship.  This seems to be why there is a current revival of Calvinist teaching (especially on-line).  Instead of leaning on the strong scriptural case that has been built throughout Christian history, they seem to try to appeal to the lowest common denomenator.  Fortunately books like Sungenis' Not By Faith Alone have countered the in-depth exegesis in recent years.<BR> <BR>On the other hand I found his use ofCalvinist exegetes trying to deal with passages like 2 Peter 2:1, 1 Timothy 4:10 etc. topped with Spurgeon's resignation that all men really does mean all men to be hilarious and refreshing to read.  Why can't people accept that Paul taught both that men will not turn to God without his grace and that the human decision is still free?  Statements favoring both can be found throughout the New Testament (compare Ephesians 1:4-5, Romans 9-11, 2 Timothy 1:9 with Acts 17:30, 1 Timothy 4:10 and 2 Peter 3:9)!  Oh well...<br />As a post-script, I have not read the Potter's Freedom by James White, but since his book concerning Sola Fide (The God Who Justifies) was all sound and fury signifying nothing, I don't expect too much from it.	2003-05-24
US	36491720	R25XHQU9A7SWKX	0898701775	868484268	Catholicism and Fundamentalism: The Attack on "Romanism" by "Bible Christians"	Books	5	14	17	N	N	a bit dated, but still the best antitdote to fundamentalism	Karl Keating's book is a handy reference for anyone who has come away from a conversation with a Fundamentalist absolutely frustrated. All of the chapters are coincise and describe a particular ministry (like Mission To Catholics), a particular doctrine or devotion (i.e. Marian dogmas, Infant Baptism) or the sourcebook that most Fundamentalists draw some of their more venomous charges from (Lorraine Boettner's \\"Roman Catholicism\\", who I found out after reading the book, lived about 10 miles from where I went to college).<br />Some of the groups Keating covers have faded into obscurity, however others have taken up the mantle left by the Boettner's and the Brewer's of the world. While some at least try to interact with the Church Fathers and Catholic beliefs that aren't horribly caricatured. They all inevitably fall back on many of the arguments that have been ably refuted in this handly little book.	2003-05-18
US	36491720	R19CR3L8MSMVLZ	1573580287	795418932	Sola Scriptura: The Protestant Position on the Bible (Reformation Theology Series)	Books	2	8	33	N	N	Good polemics... but I am still unconvinced	The book &quot;Sola Scriptura: The Protestant Position on the Bible&quot; is formatted as a series of essays from Reformed authors trying to prove one aspect or another about Sola Scriptura, one of the cornerstones of the Reformation.  This approach is unfortunate because it really doesn't afford each of the authors a chance to dig deep in the scriptures and try to defend their view.  Thus the reader who is unconvinced of the scriptural grounds for Sola Scriptura (I number myself in this camp) won't find much in the way of a systematic response to the numerous internet &quot;e-pologists&quot; who have, in my opinion, exposed the weak scriptural and philosophical grounds of this vital doctrine.  <br />Moreover, most of the authors, in fact try to slip through numerous unproved assertions as though they were fact.  These include: the Word of God is solely contained in the scriptures, Scripture is self-authenticating, the &quot;inner witness&quot; of the Spirit confirms the truth of the scriptures (this is, by itself, interesting because many of the authors condemn the hopelessly subjective nature of mainstream evangelicalism... seems like the pot is calling the kettle black), Jesus or the Apostles quoting an OT book automatically makes it part of the canon (Ecclesiates, Esther and Song of Soloman are not quoted in the NT, moreover Paul quotes pagans in both Acts 17 and his letter to Titus) etc.<br />Although space does not afford me a detailed review of the flaws of each author's essay, I wanted to point out one that stuck out in my mind in particular.  Dr. Sproul mentions the fact that Luther questioned the canonicity of James and tries to salvage Luther's dispicable and hopelessly subjective comments as not undermining the authority of scriptures (Luther excluded James and Hebrews from the canon because he felt it undermined the doctrine of Sola Fide), but when he condemns the modernists who excluded passages of scripture that they felt did not concern &quot;the historical Jesus,&quot; he hypocritically condemns them.<br />The final two objections I have are the most serious.  First, none of the authors seriously address the most crippling indictment against Sola Scriptura (and the reason most begin to disbelieve it): it leads to doctrinal anarchy, lack of authority and religious relativism.  The history of the post-Reformation church bears this out.  Second, no one addresses 1 Tim 3:15, yet another indictment against Sola Scriptura.  <br />In conclusion, if you are looking for a &quot;silver bullet&quot; to beat back those who would attack Sola Scriptura, skip this one.  It's too short to really dig deep into the issues surrounding this controversial doctrine.  But, if you're looking for a brief, one-sided and polemical book that will probably confirm what you probably already believe... buy it!	2003-05-08
US	36491720	R3CJZZRJ68Q19R	187761193X	54153407	Justification by Faith Alone: Affirming the Doctrine by Which the Church and the Individual Stands or Falls (Reformation Theology Series)	Books	2	13	24	N	N	Very passionately written, but...	I'm not sure why I bought this book. The more systematic &quot;The God Who Justifies&quot; failed at nearly every turn of the page to refute or even interact with Not By Faith Alone by Robert Sungenis, so how much could I expect from a brief collection of essays that one reveiwer rightfully pointed out leads to overlapping ideas that seem to play like a broken record.  In addition to overlapping themes/tangents, the authors also made numerous unproved assertions, gaping holes in their argumentation, contradictions and almost laughable historic gaffes.  Here are some examples:<br />1) Dr. MacArthur asserts at the end of his essay that sola fide was taught by Augustine (which is absolutely hilarious to anyone who has actually READ any of his works).  But, the truly hilarious moment comes just a few pages later when R.C. Sproul (quoting Alistair McGrath) says that Augustine had a fundamental misunderstanding of the nature of justification (because of the meaning of the Latin word for justificaiton).  Wow! Whose the fact checker for this book?!?  Moreover, it should be noted that Augustine's sacramental theology was condemned numerous times throughout the book.<br />2) Dr. Gerstner claims that Aquinas was a Protestant!  His reasoning is that since Aquinas teaches justificatio impii (justification of the ungodly) he must've been an evangelical deep down inside.  It's amazing that he can claim this given the fact that Aquinas systematized &quot;mertium de condigno&quot; for the church.  Moreover, Session 6 Chapter 7 of the Council of Trent said: &quot;For although no one can be just but he to whom the merits of the passion of our Lord Jesus Christ are communicated, yet this does take place in this justification of the ungodly...&quot;  Was the Council which Gerstner and the other authors who contributed disparraged constantly really a forefather to the Reformed faith?  With selective quoting like this, the possibilty might still exist :-) !<br />3)  No one seriously interacts with the fact the only other time &quot;...credited to him as righteousness...&quot; is used in scriptures is to describe Phineas (Psalm 106:30-31), for a righteous quality intrinsic to him.  This is obviously a fatal flaw to Protestant theology that forces the Reformed camp to either admit that God actually credits righteousness to people because of a quality in them, just like Abraham (Romans 4:18-21), or it forces them to admit that Paul selectively quotes OT passages and ignores others just to prove a theological point.<br />4) Dr. Armstrong claims that James is trying to say that Abraham offering up Isaac merely vindicated his actual justification in Genesis 15:6.  There are many problems with this, but what I'd like to point out is that if Genesis 15:6 was Abraham's only justification, than he was a lost heathen when he left his homeland BY FAITH (which incidentally is listed by the author of Hebrews in the FAITH hall of fame along with the incidents in Genesis 15 and 22, not bad for one of the lost, eh?).<br />5) Dr. MacArthur claims to show that Jesus taught Sola Fide, but the majority of the essay is dedicated to the writings of Paul.  In addition, passages in which Jesus explicitly says that the final judgement is going to be based on works (Matt 16:27, 25:31-46 etc.) or that salvation is indeed dependent on works (Mark 10:17-31) are not even mentioned!<br />6) Dr. Gerstner continually maintains that Christians will be rewarded for their works in heaven and that their final justification does not depend on them.  He does this by quoting absolutely no biblical passages to prove his point.<br />7) All of the authors at one point or another say that justification always proceeds sanctification (which therefore protects us from the fatal error of mixing the two).  No biblical passages are cited in support of this and the passage that contradicts it (1 Cor. 6:11) is never mentioned.  <br />I could go on and on, but I'll stop the list there.  The last chapter is a rebuttal to the book Rome Sweet Home.  I haven't read the book, so I can't say how well Gerstner proves his point.  But it does serve as interesting insight into how people who belive in Once Saved Always Saved deal with the fact that people abandon the faith.	2003-05-07
US	36491720	R1HLEDBCQN64P3	0895554666	149216695	Characters of the Reformation	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A good companion to How The Reformation Happened	While others might fault Belloc for repeating essentially the same thesis about the Reformation that he put forth in How The Reformation Happened, he still does a marvelous job of sticking with a good formula and adding new twists to it.  In this work he does brief sketches of the lives of the most influential political, military and philosophical figures of the time and shows how they related to the religious revolution known as the &quot;reformation.&quot;  As he weaves these 23 lives together he shows the reader how their private and public choices lead to the shipwreck of Christendom and how the European civilization after the Reformation was rebuilt.  All in all a facinating read that I highly recommend.	2003-04-13
US	36491720	R1SHU3VAM7NQD0	0895554658	309975963	How The Reformation Happened	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Well written and interesting	This is a blazing, gloves off history of the Reformation!  Belloc highlights the political and military struggles of the period (almost leaving the religious turmoil as an afterthought).  Belloc uses this as a device to show the reader that the events surrounding this period were far more than a religious quarrel, it involved conspiracies between zealots who allowed church lands to be looted and people who favored the absolute power of the monarchy over and above any temporal papal power.  It's a good and quick read that engages the intellect.	2003-03-14
US	36491720	R2XZAD4IXF1KB9	0800753429	942576028	The Bondage of the Will	Books	1	30	93	N	N	Am I reading the same book as the 5 star reviews???	Being raised a Protestant I was taught to admire Luther for bringing us out of the darkness of Catholicism in the Middle Ages.  But reading this book has made me wonder whether he was right at all.  His &quot;response&quot; to Erasmus' claim about the scriptures not being as clear as Luther made them to be(Erasmus basically said &quot;how can they be totally clear if people have been debating this topic for so long&quot;) was simply to say that the scriptures are clear and that Erasmus was blinded by sin for not believing it so.  In addition, Luther's treatment for Matthew 23 (Jesus weeping over Jerusalem and saying how he longed to gather them) is in the same style of argumentation.  Instead of reading the plain meaning (i.e. Jesus wanting to gather them to himself and be their messiah) Luther goes on a tangent saying that we should stand in awe of a God who weeps over the people He dooms to destruction!  If that isn't forcing one's theology on the text without consideration to what the Bible is actually saying, I don't know what is!  Moreover, Luther is condesending and spiteful throughout the text.  His absolutely venomous language is a big turn off in my opinion.  If his position magnifies grace so much, why doesn't he practice it?	2003-03-12
US	36491720	R14WJ5RXUAIK9W	0764222880	383769649	The God Who Justifies	Books	3	15	39	N	N	Very articulate, but ultimately unconvincing...	In \\"The God Who Justifies\\" James White does an admirable job of trying to rally Evangelicals behind Sola Fide (whether any of them were there in the first place, from the Reformation onward, is another interesting question... but I digress...). In typical Reformed fashion he beats to death the Pauline corpus and virtually ignores the rest of the New Testament. James is tossed on stage, briefly, summarily brutalized, and then hastily tossed away. Possible alternate explanations of Paul are largely left unaddressed. Dozens of references in the Gospels and the rest of the NT to \\"... and they will be judged according to what they have done\\" or verses explicitly saying that salvation depends on obedience (ex. Matt 16:27,Rev. 20:12, Jesus' words to the Rich Young Man or the entire Sermon on the Mount) were ignored. The author has loudly in several places complained about various people who don't agree with Sola Fide \\"not interpreting the context\\" of various passages, but I can't help but wonder if a group of theologians who so consistently ignore unambiguous passages with frightening regularity are examples of the pot calling the kettle black.<br />I was also throughly disappointed with White's failure to interact in a meaningful way with some of the most important arguments in Robert Sungenis' book \\"Not By Faith Alone.\\"<BR> <BR>For example, the \\"explanation\\" for why no one believed Sola Fide for such a long time also failed to convince me. He virtually admits that no one believed Sola Fide from Paul until Luther in the opening sentence of this explanation, saying: \\"There are only a few valid contextual citations ... that can be mustered in reference to justification by grace through faith alone in the writings of the early church.\\" Then his first \\"valid contextual citation\\" divorces a quote from it's context in Clement's Epistle (in the Epistle he maintained that people were \\"justified by works, and not words\\"). It only goes down hill from there and one is left wonderinghow anyone got to heaven before the 16th century.<br />His supposed answer to the \\"Phineas dilemma\\" (Phineas is the only other person in the OT that was \\"credited\\" with righteousness, and it was based on his works, Psalm 106:31) doesn't even address the fact that his \\"answer\\" makes Paul yet another one of those people who don't \\"interpret in the context\\" (in Paul's case, he would be guitly of selectively quoting the OT to fit one's theology).  Morevoer, Dr. White makes a laughable error by saying that Phineas' \\"crediting of righteousness\\" was not his initial encouter with God, unlike Abraham in Genesis 15:6 (I guess Genesis 12-14 is not in Dr. White's Bible).  This leads to one of three uncomfortable conclusions: either Dr. White made an error that any good Sunday School student could point out (which is unlikely, since he cites Genesis 12 and Hebrews 11:8 elsewhere) or he is being purposefully deceptive (which I hope would not be the case) or something else(?!?). <br />The one positive thing I enjoyed about the book is that it was better in every concievable way to the Soli Deo Gloria publication \\"Justification by Faith Alone.\\"<br />In conclusion, while Mr. White can be very forceful and articulate in many places when arguing for the Reformation principle of Sola Fide, on the whole, I found his analysis unconvincing.	2003-03-02
US	36491720	R1BT4KMRBILSMT	1579180086	326171573	Not by Faith Alone: A Biblical Study of the Catholic Doctrine of Justification	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Exhaustive and engaging...	When I first cracked this book open, I was a Protestant who was skeptical about faith alone, but still thought it was the best explanation on what the Bible says on how to get to heaven. Afterwards, I can firmly say that faith alone is definitely a faulty interpretation of scripture. <br />The first three chapters attempt to harmonize the teachings of Paul, James and Jesus in the realm of Justification (this impressed me greatly, because The God Who Justifies virtually ignores Jesus' teaching on justification and does not give a satisfactory answer why, to its detriment). The next few discuss various distinctions between Protestant and Catholic views on justification and the book wraps up with a look at the historical development of sola fide from the Reformation to the present(which proved to be one of the most facinating aspects of the book).<br />Sungenis' writing style won't win him a Pulitzer anytime soon but that is neither here nor there. He sets out to state clearly and fairly the Protestant position(s) regarding every (and I mean every!) single key passage used to defend sola fide and shows that the best explanation of each text supports the Catholic view of justification. This systematic approach impressed me as well. No reference too obscure, no greek verb too confusing and no seeming contradiction too perplexing was left unexplained.<br />The one problem I had with Not By Faith Alone was that I don't know greek. So wading through a gaggle of references to tenses, nouns and verbs in a language I didn't understand was... well... greek to me(but facinating none the less). <br />Other than that single problem, if you want every aspect of the doctrine of justification explained from the Catholic viewpoint, pick this one up.	2003-02-08
US	36491720	RGDJKFGVQCIOE	0801070791	367661213	The Justification of God: An Exegetical and Theological Study of Romans 9:1-23	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Best Calvinist work on Romans 9...	...however, it doesn't address the argument of the person who had the best non-calvinistic explanation of Romans 9... (drum roll please)... Arminius!!  Piper in a calm and persuasive manner goes inch by inch through each verse and utterly demolishes the hypothesis that Romans 9 discusses nations, not individual destinies.  However, that wasn't Arminius' premise (which in some places is remarkably similar to Piper's) and the fact that Piper didn't go over verse 30 leaves a hole in his explanation that's big enough to drive a truck through.  For all of its in depth analysis of the Greek and Hebrew, the book is still extremely readable and a good page turner.  Anyway, if you are an Arminian, you will most likely have your views challenged in a good way and if you're a Calvinist, you will probably walk away from it satisfied, but look around for Arminius' explanation, you might be pleasantly suprised that there are legitimate intellectual reasons for being an Arminian.	2002-12-12
