US	36593828	R31IEQWBJ4H8HH	0671041517	502843733	The Last Guardian (Warcraft, Book 3) (No.3)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Short and simple, but good.	While this is the quickest read of the three Warcraft books (with less pages and larger type set) it still does a lot to reveal some of the core history behind the world of Azeroth.  The mad wizard Medivh has been a cornerstone of the Warcraft story from the begining and this book does a great job of processing the lore into something easily understood.<br /><br />While Jeff Grubb isn't my favorite author, he gets a passing grade on this one.  The characters are intriguing and the plot engaging.  The character:character interactions were my favorite aspect (between Medivh and Khadgar, Khadgar and the orc emissary).<br /><br />Quick and easy to read, but also enlightening.	2005-10-04
US	36593828	R20EI6UPECMCPT	0743411692	777395642	Xenos (Eisenhorn Trilogy Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Intense!	This is a marvelous book for any fan of Sci-Fi.  I've never played the actual 40K game but didn't feel confused by any aspect of this book.  In fact, this book did a lot to bring the situation in the 40K universe into sharper focus.  By telling the story from the perspective of Eisenhorn, Abnett is able to portray the Inquisitor's true feelings and gives the whole story a very personal feel.  It must have been harder to write the book in the first person, but I think it enhances the power of the story.<br /><br />As in other Warhammer books, this one is non-stop, page-turning action.  While sometimes predictable, this book is in no way boring.  All of the characters are great and the plot is intense.  The dark vision of the 40K universe is compelling and unique.<br /><br />Can't wait to read the rest of the series.	2005-09-26
US	36593828	R3OPBAOB40F4WX	0553279025	410225256	The Paladin of the Night (Rose of the Prophet, Book. 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The plot thickens	This book picks up right where the first left off and continues to build an interesting and suspenseful storyline.  The immortals play an even greater role in this one and Mat-hew, Zhora, and Khardan are caught up in the plots of an evil god and find themselves in a position to influence the future of their entire world.  The secret of the two magical fish in a ball is uncovered and Quar's minions continue to conquer the world.<br /><br />A highly entertaining read.	2005-09-16
US	36593828	R1NCD9TZ8KDZAP	0060875410	122518901	The FairTax Book	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Looks like the same person wrote a lot of neg reviews	This book outlines a plan to move our tax collection system to a more open and straightforward technique in which consumers would be able to see exactly how much they are paying to the federal govt.  It will not raise the tax burden on anyone excpet the wealthy (and them not by much if at all) and will ensure that politicians spending the money will be forced to be more accountable.<br /><br />Looking down the list of previous reviews, it seems to me that one or a couple of people against this idea (tax attorneys, CPAs, IRS agents) are writing many reviews under different names.  You should ignore these nay-sayers.  Read the book for yourself and you'll be hard pressed to provide any solid reasoning for why this system would not work better than the current one.<br /><br />No tax collection system will be perfect, but it is hard to argue against one that is simple and straight forward.<br /><br />SUPPORT THE FAIR TAX!!	2005-09-06
US	36593828	RC9JN2S9YZGVJ	039548930X	669379389	The Return of the King: Being theThird Part of the Lord of the Rings	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magestic	The third book of the trilogy is amazing, full of emotion.  All of the hobbitts become famous as heroes of the realm by accomplishing daunting tasks to help defeat the dark lord and gain freedom for Middle Earth.  Saruman is reduced to a truly pitiful creature that is still full of spite.  Aragorn is revealed as the rightful king and takes his place at the head of the realm.<br /><br />There are also a lot of real world lessons delivered in this book.  Evil must be stood up to and fought against even with everything to loose.  Freedom is the ultimate reward and valor deserves much respect.  Some people will never repent or admit their mistakes but will always blame others for their downfall (Saruman).  And many more I'm sure.	2005-09-01
US	36593828	R3OOIRWC3SNQVR	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Compelling, but not concrete	Diamond makes a sound case with many examples to hold up his theory that there are no inherent biological advantages among human races.  While his premise that as agriculture develops, a kind of snowball affect takes place leading to greater and greater levels of complexity of civilization, and that some areas are better suited to the beginings of agriculture than others, that doesn't entirely account for the differences between modern cultures.<br /><br />Diamond's theory seems very reasonable when considering the origins of civilization and why the earliest complex societies were in the Fertile Cresent and in China, but he takes it a step further in trying to explain the differences between modern societies such as China, Germany, Brazil, Zaire, and the US..  I think it is obvious that modern societies have been heavily influenced by more than geographic barriers and ancient head starts in agriculture.  Also, I think it takes away from the scientific/unbiased feel of the book when Diamond keeps throwing around the term \\"racist\\" with all of its negative connotation for anyone who argues that there are inherent differences within the human race [and then he actually goes on the say that he believes his uncivilized islander friends are actually smarter than Americans], while there obviously are some differences (at least in looks) and very well could be differences in abilities as well.<br /><br />Basically, this is an interesting read that offers many insights into the evolution of global societies and may accurately explain why some peoples never developed or adopted advanced civilization's ways, but doesn't explain the persisting divergences between advanced, modern societies today.  It also doesn't prove that there are no racial differences that would give one group an advantage over another.	2005-08-23
US	36593828	R3OLIYORIH13SB	0886778492	874990469	3: Otherland: Volume Three: Mountain of Black Glass	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	chizz	I actually liked this one better than the first two because of the increased rate of plot development.  Everything start happening really fast toward the end and all the side plots are starting to come together.  Some of the questions left by the first two books are finally answered in this one (although this one also presents some new puzzles).  And of course Williams intorduces a couple of really intriguing new VR nodes (the endless house and the land of Troy).<br /><br />There is a heavy sense of desperation for the characters in this third book that wasn't there in the first two.  You can really see the increase in the action and a sense of urgency as each of the side plots are approaching their climaxes.  The next book promises to be exciting and to be full of unanswered questions.<br /><br />I highly reccommend this entire series.	2005-08-22
US	36593828	R30P5HQFVWO1IP	0743426908	625556247	Lord of the Clans (Warcraft, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Fun and informative.	This book about Thrall's roots and coming of power is great for historians of the world of Warcraft, as it really helps set the tone and mood of the world prior to the begining of Warcraft III.  As a book however, Lord of the Clans is not all that stellar.  While it does have exciting action and cool characters (both good and evil), the book lacks real depth and is overly simplified.  Nearly all the humans portrayed here are weak and spiteful, while all the orcs seem to be noble and caring..  Are these the same orcs we saw in the first book?  Also, the orc shaman is revealed to be extremely powerful because the elements seem to find their causes worthy, while the humans don't appear to have any real mages except for servant healers to keep gladiators fighting.<br /><br />While I thought the book was fun and entertaining, I actually thought it could have gone to a little more effort to capture the feel of Warcraft the game.  I'll still read more Warcraft books and I do recommend this one to any Warcraft fan.	2005-08-22
US	36593828	R27KN9ZYSMOPE0	0671783734	213503270	Trollslayer (A Gotrek & Felix novel)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Explosive early tales of Gotrek and Felix!	Gotrek and Felix battle the forces of chaos in a novel of non-stop action and plot progression.  As a collection of early Gotrek and Felix short stories in one volume, Trollslayer has a few minor negative aspects such as repetition of a few key phrases.  However, these short stories actually tie in nicely to make a good overall story that progresses in an orderly manner through time, creating a very enjoyable and sequential tale.<br /><br />In this first novel, Gotrek and Felix (both complete badasses) are introduced and some of their first adventures together are told.  An exciting book to say the least, the heroes are caught up in radical plots by evil villians one after another, with very little \\"spacer.\\"  Basically, you get action, action, action the whole way through, which may dull your senses after a while but makes for a quick read and isn't too bad if you remember to keep the stories in their original context as seperate short stories.  Anyway, this first tale of Gotrek and Felix and their early escapades against the forces of darkness and Chaos in the world of Warhammer is exciting and fun.  Highly reccomended.	2005-08-08
US	36593828	RYMQ76J8WIY4T	0553276387	154417110	The Will of the Wanderer (Rose of the Prophet, Vol. 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Trilogy has a lot of potential, an original setting.	Yet another unique and creative world is created by Weis and Hickman in this trilogy from the authors of the Dragonlance Chronicles trilogy.  In the Rose of the Prophet trilogy, a divided world ruled by separate gods, each jealous of the others, is the scene for a dramatic story of love, pride, and deciet.  While the plot and the characters took a while to fully develop, by the end of this first book the reader is totally absorbed in a world in which nearly everything is possible.  The characters are well defined and likeable, and the story has potential to be a truly great fantasy trilogy. <br /> <br />While there are obvious parallels between this new world and our own world (especially comparing modern religions with the psuedoreligions of the story) and some of the characters seem a little mold-fitting, the story and the realm are both original in the extreme.  Weis and Hickman are masters at creating new and unique settings and they have proved it once again in this trilogy.	2005-08-01
US	36593828	R15OW5UEIFXM9Y	0812533054	856857613	Seventh Son (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fascinating new realm is introduced.	The Tales of Alvin Maker represents a departure from Card's science fiction norms but still has many of the elements that have given him such fame as he has.  The main character is an innocent child blessed with special abilities and one on whom the fate of many will undoubtably depend.<br /><br />In this first book of the series, Alvin Miller Jr., the seventh of seven brothers is born and a very intriguing new world is introduced in an early America that is almost a blend of how it really was and a totally fantastical place in which magic and curses are a part of every day life.  People live in fear of evil spirits and the Red man, and rely on Torches and Makers with special \\"knacks\\" (magic abilities) to guide them through life.  In a world where the village priest seems to be lead by some kind of devil and little boys can cause materials to bend themselves to their wishes, anything is possible.<br /><br />While reading these stories (as in any alternate history) you may become a bit confused or mislead about some true American history (because so many true things are mixed up with fantasies) but I still reccomend this book.  I have high hopes for the rest of the series.	2005-07-22
US	36593828	R240GJW5LSMJAD	0060574216	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: The Classic Guide to Understanding the Opposite Sex	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Understand your partner	This is a book that I feel everyone in a significant relationship should read.  By understanding some of the key differences between men and women, better relationships can be built with more realistic expectations and more forgiveness.  When men understand why women act the way they do and why they expect certain things from men, they can more readily accept them for who they are and give reason to sometimes unreasonable seeming requests (and the same is true for women).<br /><br />While most of the points in this book are fairly evident, there are a lot of insights that most people don't really think about that have big impacts on relationships.  I find it somewhat refreshing to read a sometimes brutally honest books about the biological differences between men and women in this age when all the emphasis goes to strong independent women who are equal in every way to men.  In fact, there are major differences in our very cores that influence the way we view others, feel emotionally, think about the world, and even our wants and needs.<br /><br />I strongly recommend this book to anybody, male or female, who wants to understand what is going on in your partners head and wants to build a more trusting and understanding relationship.	2005-07-15
US	36593828	R1BIYDFGSWSU0M	0671041525	895901061	Day of the Dragon (WarCraft, Book 1) (No.1)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A well written introduction to Warcraft fiction.	Knaak can always be relied upon to provide solid foundations and to stick with established limitations in fantasy worlds.  Its got to be one of the most difficult challenges for fantasy writers to come up with and produce an interesting story in a world that has already been created and established by others.<br /><br />I was very pleased with Knaak's efforts in this novel.  He spins an entertaining tale with fun characters and intriguing plots at the same time as setting the tone for the Warcraft fantasy novels.  While much of the geography seems to be diferent in the new World of Warcraft computer game, I think that can only be blamed on the game producers.. It seems like Knaak went to a lot of effort to conform to the world of Warcraft as it was in 2001.<br /><br />I really enjoyed this book and hope that the other Warcraft books will entertain me as much as this one did.	2005-07-13
US	36593828	R2Z0IX3FYP8ICP	0886777771	445199901	River of Blue Fire (Otherland, Volume 2)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Enjoy the variety of many different VR simulations in an exciting tale!	In this second installment in the Otherland series (which is meant to read as one LONG single novel) the plot is uncovered to some degree through the travels of the characters through the Otherland Network, which they are starting to understand in bits and pieces.  While some people seem to be bored by the characters adventures through numerous and wildly varying simulations and seem to just want resolution to the story, I enjoy all the different lands and experiences the travelers go through and believe that Williams is the kind of writer that does not include a lot of frivolous things in his stories.  Even parts of the story such as the giant kitchen land with humanesque utensils and foods helps to shed some light on the workings of the network as well as lead up to important steps toward resolution (remember the freezer).<br /><br />Basically, you've got to read these books for the right reasons.  They were authored and sold as works to shine a light on what might be possible in the not too distant future with virtual reality becoming more and more a part of our lives.  These books are so popular because people are intrigued by the possiblities of VR and so it is not surprising that Williams includes a lot of different circumstances for the reader to appreciate what would be possible in a future such as this.  Dont complain that you have to read through another chapter in another simulation, enjoy it!!<br /><br />Highly recommended.	2005-07-06
US	36593828	R18F3C48Z6BZB4	0061054186	268279831	Whispering Woods (Magic: The Gathering, Bk. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A better explanation of the magic of MTG.	While I really enjoyed the first MTG book, Arena, I thought it lacked a decent explanation of how the magic actually works.  I mean, where do the summoned creatures come from and where do they go when a battle is finished.  In this book, an attempt was made to do some explaining about this and really helped the reader get a better grasp on just what is happening during wizardly battles.  In this book, summoned creatures are real beings simply being teleported into the sight of a duel and remain behind aftwards until sent somewhere else by a wizard.  This system makes more sense to me than the one in which monsters are just created from nothing or summoned from some kind of void in a wizards pouch.<br /><br />The story in this book is also fun and fast-paced.  Greensleeves and her brother Gull are introduced and begin their adventures under the employ of a wizard after their home is destroyed by a wizard duel.  While the book may seem a little kiddish (especially the characters names), the story is actually detailed, violent and gory, with all the good elements of a good pulp fantasy.  A fast and enjoyable read.	2005-06-27
US	36593828	R3U3LHZB0TSNZ	0345356365	722626928	3: The Wishsong of Shannara (The Shannara Chronicles)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A solid conclusion to the Sword of Shannara trilogy.	While the three books of the Sword of Shannara Trilogy read as individual stories each with definite beginings and endings, The Wishsong of Shannara provides excellent conclusion to the trilogy.  Each of the three books has different main characters and very individual plots and would be ejoyable reguardless of the reading order.  In the Wishsong of Shannara, the trilogy is brought to its dramatic conclusion and the land is primed to enter a new era without the threat of the dark magic found in the first three books.  Allanon's story seems to be told in full and the age of the Druids passes into history.<br /><br />The Wishsong of Shannara is a very exciting and engulfing novel that has everything of the previous two books.  Brin and Jair Ohmsford are well developed and intriguing characters that the reader can really become attached to.  The supporting cast is awesome and the plot is monumental.  The climax is (in my opinion) the most exciting of the trilogy.  This book will not dissapoint.	2005-06-23
US	36593828	R24OI82KY8CFMZ	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Better than the movie.	This second installment in teh LOTR trilogy is without a doubt my favorite.  Particularly the first part of the book in which Aragon, Gimli, and Legolas track down Merry and Pippin, and the Ents awake to defeat Saruman's orcish forces.  This is just top notch fantasy that doesn't slow down much at all from cover to cover, keeping the reader turning pages.<br /><br />While I liked the first movie maybe a little more than the first book, I thought the second book was better than the movie.  There are lots of good parts in the book that are left out (Faramir and the elaphaunt) or just changed completely (Sam's use of the ring of power) that change the overall feel of the story in a way that takes away from some of its attactivness.  I was actually surprised to find just how much liberty the makers of the movie took in altering the story.	2005-06-18
US	36593828	R17B7UWF2Z2ZJW	1844161641	544264686	First & Only (Gaunt's Ghosts)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Non-stop, page-turning action!	This is the first Warhammer 40k book I've read, but there's no way it'll be the last.  In this first of the Gaunt's Ghost books, the Tanith First and Only and their inspiring leader are introduced.  The team of warriors is lead through terrible battles in which characters are brought to life with vivid detail and killed off in gory fashion.  This book is not for the faint of heart but is great for someone seeking a thrilling adventure in the dark and unforgiving universe of the 41st millenium.  I ended up reading the entire second half of the book in one day (instead of doing chores that really needed doing) because I couldn't put it down.  Just had to see what was going to happen!<br /><br />The book was just what I expected: a dark and fast-paced war story with elements of honor, bravery, deciet and betrayal.  The world of Warhammer 40k is absolutely brutal and engulfing and I really look forward to reading more novels in this unique setting.	2005-06-18
US	36593828	R2MOYVR282PLKP	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	5	10	17	N	N	While somewhat exaggerated, brings up many important points.	I dont care if you're a liberal or a conservative, you must agree that discourse and dialogue are crucial for a healthy society.  Savage's primary goal is to induce such.<br /><br />While much of this book is devoted to rantings and ravings against the ACLU, PETA, \\"Demoncrats\\" and the liberal media, Savage does bring up many important issues that are largely being ignored by the current establishment.  Everyone agrees that we have to take some action, one way or the other, to deal with immigration, government responsibility, religion, schools, and the courts.  While you may not agree with Savage on these topics, at least you should agree that there are problems and that they need to be debated and dealt with.<br /><br />A thought provoking book that I highly reccomend.	2005-06-07
US	36593828	R2RWQ8J5MGHQ12	0886777100	634336906	Otherland, Vol. 1: City Of Golden Shadow	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A cult phenomenon	The Otherland series has become one of the most popular references for the world of futuristic virtual reality.  Williams has garnered a large gathering of people that look to fiction to satisfy their thirst for the wonders of VR.  Those of us who dream of the possibilities of the future are encouraged and inspired by the work of Tad Williams and others.<br /><br />In the first installment of the Otherland series, Williams does a good job of introducing the possibilities and limitations of his version of VR, in which people can plug in for indefinite amounts of time for experiences that can be scarily realistic.  Limitations are set much as they are today, with money being the primary obstacle for the best VR experience.  The rich all own the most expensive equipment and thus have the most realistic VR modules.  Otherland vol. 1 reveals a world in which top of the line and secret VR technology is being used for some kind of obscure evil plot by some of the most powerful people in the world.<br /><br />As you'd expect, the best parts of the book come in the form of very imaginative and exciting VR nodes in which various characters have diverse adventures in places resembling everything from classical fantasy to modern pleasure clubs.  These settings give the story a sort of jumpy feeling, in that the reader is always being taken to a new area in which all the rules are different.  The book does get a bit dragged-out and boring in some of the RL scenes, but for the most part it flows nicely.  The biggest gripe I have is the lack of any kind of conclusion to the story (which can be explained by the fact that the whole series is really written as a single story), and in fact the reader is left without really understanding much of the plot behind the story.  What are the bad guys up to?<br /><br />A fun book to read and an exciting 4-book story.	2005-06-06
US	36593828	RP4CBD8WO9ITC	0671784218	558171559	Hammers of Ulric (Warhammer)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Extraordinary storytelling...	... isn't something you normally expect from joint-effort novels, but this book turned out to be a nice surprise.  Being my first Warhammer novel, I dont really know how it compares to the others, but I was really impressed.  The world of Warhammer is just what I've been looking for.  Mature fantasy in a dark and magical world.  Good vs. Evil and intriguing characters that dont really fit into either of those categories.  If other Warhammer novels are as good as this one, I'll be reading many more.<br /><br />Hammers of Ulric is an exciting and fun book to read.  The story line is intense and suspensful, the characters are awesome.  The whole story is full of mayhem and destruction, even some of my favorite characters meet brutal ends (which makes the story more realistic and interesting).  The White Wolves of Ulric are nearly unstoppable and really fun to read about.  I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for some hack-and-slash/dark fantasy adventure.	2005-05-24
US	36593828	R2YW0U2PPI0Z1B	0765305232	393437308	Chainfire: Chainfire Trilogy, Part 1 (Sword of Truth, Book 9)	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	Well... it sounds like the next book will be good!	This book introduces a new and fascinating storyline, but leaves the reader without any sense of conclusion.  Goodkind's other books in this series have all been pretty much self-contained while still adding their bits to the overall tale.  While Naked Empire was a pretty good self-contained story but didn't progress the overall theme at all, this book is just the opposite.  The overall story was moved along significantly but the individual plot of this book was left without any kind of conclusion.  Basically, the book just ends with a promise of an exciting plot for the next installment in the series.<br /><br />I did enjoy this book because of the unique plot and the greater involvment of Cara and Nicci.  However, Richard was like some kind of pitiful little toddler the way he walked around in self-pity and remorse the whole time.  Where is the hero from the first 6 books that never doubted himself and wouldn't put up with people who stood in his way?  I do like the the heavy philosophy of self-reliance and individual freedoms which have crept in to take a major place in this epic series.<br /><br />I'd almost recommend waiting to read this one till the next book comes out so you can read the whole story all at once.	2005-05-20
US	36593828	R110EC8P6BN2MA	097640110X	214695800	The Hedge Knight - Second Edition [Graphic Novel]	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Wonderful art work enhances the story.	This is the first graphic novel that I've read and I was thoroughly impressed.  Martin's short story of Dunk the hedge knight and his first tournament experience is well told and fun to read.  The art in this book is really great and gives the story a more intimate feel by allowing the reader a visualization of the events as they unfold.  The story is definitely enhanced by the detailed art work and makes for a very enjoyable read.  I look forward to reading some of the other stories from Legends in this graphic format.<br /><br />A very enjoyable one/two day read and worth the price.<br /><br />Highly recommended.	2005-05-17
US	36593828	R3I307RM4D2N4E	0399148892	16612293	Freedom's Ransom (Freedom Series, Book 4)	Books	1	5	11	N	N	More boring than Friday afternoon cable television.	This is the worst book I've read in a very long time.  Besides not having any kind of excitment or intrigue throughout the story, even the characters in the book seem bored.  The reader just gets the feeling that McCaffrey doesn't really care anymore.  I mean, while the characters from this Freedom saga are great and easy to fall in love with, we dont really need to hear about their everyday exploits that are honestly more boring than watching cable TV on Friday afternoon.  Who gives a rat's ass about Zanail trading coffee beans for spare batteries and truck tires?<br /><br />Besides just being boring, this book did almost nothing to expand the plot of the overall storyline.  We want to know about the Farmers! Beyond vague promises that Zanail will track them down in the next book, nothing was mentioned at all about this most intriguing aspect of the series.<br /><br />Sorry McCaffrey, but I dont think I'll be reading any more of you Freedom saga (if you could even get any more published).	2005-05-12
US	36593828	RKGBCL27R526B	0345285549	238137791	The Elfstones of Shannara (Shannara, No. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wow.  Even better than the Sword of Shannara.	Having gotten used to mediocre sequels from authors who know that their books will sell after writing one big hit, I was pleasantly surprised to find that Brooks actually elevated his writing in this book.  While both books were great and consist of epic themes with end-of-the-world consequences, Elfstones had a lot more heart-pounding, gut-wrenching action.  I mean this book is exciting.<br /><br />The reluctant hero of Amberle initially doesn't understand the full importance of the quest imposed upon her.  It doesn't really matter though because she darn sure understands the terrible consequences of refusing to go on (with the Reaper breathing down her neck throughout the book).  All of the characters in this book are so vividly described as to be almost tangible.  Honest to God, the reader feels a real connection to these heros and a real disgust/fear of the demons.  This is one of a very few (maybe the only one ever) that actually brought tears to my eyes so real were the feelings.<br /><br />Seriously one of the most beautifully written books i've ever come across.  Strongly reccomended.	2005-05-04
US	36593828	R2CMHNMFWYINW1	0061054240	929164492	Arena (Magic - The Gathering, No. 1)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Surprisingly good!	I was wary about reading a book based on a trading card game (even though I love MTG) because of the limits put on the author when much of the world they are writing about is already laid out.  Maybe partly because of this trepedition, I found myself unable to put this book down, captivated by the story.  Its a damn good book where I didn't really expect to find one.  A plesant surprise!<br /><br />While its true that the occasional attempt to conform the book to the MTG game by casting some of the more popular spells from the game and by trying to explain the limitations and mana requirements of magic took away from the seriousness of the book, the core story is very well told.  The plot, characters, landscapes, and action are top-notch and the reader is drawn in by tantalizing mysteries (The main character's true identity isn't revealed until very near the end of the book).<br /><br />Having played Magic the Gathering (particularly the older editions) will enhance your enjoyment of this book because of some ambiguousness of some of the spells used.  With knowledge of what a craw wurm is you'll have a better understanding of what is happening.  I'd still say that anyone that hasn't played the game would enjoy this book anyway.<br /><br />Forstchen was a great choice of author for the first of the MTG books.  I look forward to reading more of them and more of his.<br /><br />Strongly reccomended.	2005-04-23
US	36593828	R1N49T5Z2H841B	0765312131	598325741	Ordermaster (Saga of Recluce)	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	A solid addition to the Recluce Saga.	Modesitt delivers what his readers expect in this new eddition to the Recluce Saga.  While following the same basic story outline as his past books, of a humble man discovering his talent for magery and then being forced to use it to influence world events in huge ways, L.E. is also able to continue adding much detail to his rich world of Recluce.<br /><br />In this sequel to The Wellspring of Chaos, Kharl the cooper/beggar/sailor/carpenter/mage/lord continues his adventures on the island nations of Nordla and Austra.  Fighting (and killing) mage after mage throughout the book makes for an exciting read and having the story take place in another part of the world besides Candar and Recluce helps in expanding the reader's understanding of the lands and their people.  By some accounts, Kharl could be the most powerful order mage we've encountered up till now, able to withstand the effects of death and chaos better than other powerful mages.  He surely faced and defeated more white wizards in one on one combat than any yet written about.  Even if he isn't the most powerful per se, he has undoubtably discovered one of the most powerful uses of order in unlinking bound order and thus creating a chaos explosion.  Regardless, Kharl is one of my favorite characters of the entire series.  Powerful and imposing, he stands up to every challenge boldly  (no matter how uncomfortable or unfamiliar) and prevails.<br /><br />If you've become tired of Modesitt's world of Recluce, stop reading these books for a while.  I find that if I space them out by a couple of months or more I am not turned off by the seemingly repetitive story lines.  Each character and story is different in large and small ways and all are enjoyable.	2005-04-19
US	36593828	R2RXGON7FLIHSO	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A detailed and fair look at conservative power in America	I picked up this book expecting to find your everyday conservative propaganda, explaining why Bush is the greatest president in history or why abortion is leading our country straight to the pits of Hell.  Instead, what I found was a refreshing and extremeley interesting look at the evolution and dominancy of the American Right.<br /><br />This book offers an exhuastive (not to mean tiring) explanation for how the Right Nation became so dominant in American politics.  From the very beginings of conservative thought to the modern time of even the \\"liberal\\" Democrats behaving like hard-core conservatives by most European standards, The Right Nation thoroghly examines the rise of conservatism and details an American spirit with such a powerful trust in self and suspicion of federal government.  The clash between the ever more conservative Republican party and the ever more liberal Democrates, and why the Republicans seem to have come out on top is detailed here in ways that reveal the true workings of American politics as well as the firmly held beliefs of the majority of American citizens.<br /><br />While this book is jam-packed full of interesting facts and staticstics, some of the most striking to me were the comparisons between America and Europe.  Besides just being far more conservative than Europeans, Americans have a deep set belief in themselves and in their country.  I forget the exact numbers but it is really high (about 30%) of Americans who believe that they will advance to become one of the top one percentile of wage earners in America.  While the might suggest to some people that Americans are just stupid, to me it conveys a sense of confidence and positiveness that is part of a great American can-do spirit.<br /><br />I am sure that extremists from either end of the political spectrum found this book to be baised in one way or another and I think that is a good indication of the fairness and balance with which this book was written.  The material presented here has been researched to an almost rediculous degree (thus the ~50 pages of references in the back of the book) and discussed in a open and honest fashion.  Not everything about the conservative movement has been beautiful, but the conservative movement and the people involved should feel proud to have achieved so much and overcome so completely.<br /><br />While most of this book is easy and enjoyable to agree with, there are some things that I must dispute.  Despite the seeming dominance of conservatives in American politics, there is still a very strong liberal presence steering America in a more liberal direction.  Mainly the court systems and their forcing of issues on the American people.  When people are afraid to build playgrounds for their children, cities are filling in public swimming pools, and police departments are refusing to give stranded civilians a jump all because of fear of lawsuits, you know something is wrong.  There is still much work to be done to lessen the overbearing weight of governmental regulation on the people and to fix up a court system so that people can truly be free and not live in fear of being sued by scam artists or criminals.presented here has been researched to an almost rediculous degree (thus the ~50 pages of references in the back of the book) and discussed in a open and honest fashion.  Not everything about the conservative movement has been beautiful, but the conservative movement and the people involved should feel proud to have achieved so much and overcome so completely. <br /> <br />While most of this book is easy and enjoyable to agree with, there are some things that I must dispute.  Despite the seeming dominance of conservatives in American politics, there is still a very strong liberal presence steering America in a more liberal direction.  Mainly the court systems and their forcing of issues on the American people.  When people are afraid to build playgrounds for their children, cities are filling in public swimming pools, and police departments are refusing to give stranded civilians a jump all because of fear of lawsuits, you know something is wrong.  There is still much work to be done to lessen the overbearing weight of governmental regulation on the people and to fix up a court system so that people can truly be free and not live in fear of being sued by scam artists or criminals.	2005-04-11
US	36593828	R1YZX31DNYHPWP	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A classic in its own right.	This book is a stand alone epic fantasy that deserves more respect than it has recieved.  The Sword of Shannara is one of modern fantasy's icons and for good reasons.<br /><br />I recently re-read this book for the first time in about ten years and was VERY much impressed.  While there are some heavy similarities between Brooks' world and the world of Tolkein, that is expected and forgivable.  Brooks even comments about the influence Tolkein had over him at the introduction to the collector's edition.  This book also has much that is unique.  The idea of a post-apocolyptic world in which magic has taken the place of technology is attractive and interesting, and the storyline of Shea being the unkown last of a line of ancient kings and holding the power to save mankind from darkness is exciting.<br /><br />I personally like some aspects of this book even more than the Lord of the Rings.  I thought the characters and situations in this book were described in such vivid detail that the reader really feels a strong connection with the heros.  Also, Brooks is able to create a more life-like world by giving even the \\"evil\\" races some form of humanity, going so far as to play up a troll as one of the most honorable and self-sacrificing characters in the story.  Contrary to what some of the critics say about this one, The Sword of Shannara is far more than just another rendition of LOTR.<br /><br />I highly reccomend this epic fantasy to readers of all types.	2005-03-31
US	36593828	R15NLEW627ZEC2	1891799177	55368181	Welcome to the Ivory Tower of Babel: Confessions of a Conservative College Professor	Books	4	30	38	N	Y	Where is the diversity of thought in higher education?	Thanks you Dr. Adams for shining some light on what is essentially a liberal takeover of higher education.  While most of the stories in this book stem from relatively few encounters with extreme left-wing nut cases, the core idea behind the book is important and unavoidably true.<br /><br />As a graduate student at the University of Florida (which is not really known as an ultra liberal institution) I have had much first hand experience with the hypocritical left.  From gay pride week to virulent anti-Bush propaganda in the classroom, I have seen it all.  The worst part about it is that it actually ends up having some effect on most students.  If it wasn't for strong grounding in my beliefs, talk radio and internet blogs, I'd probably be out on University Ave right now protesting the war!  Seriously, when EVERY SINGLE PROFESSOR (many of whom you respect) in your department routinely attacks Bush's policies and character, it is easy to see how many students beliefs are influenced.  That is especially true when most students get their news from the liberal student newspaper, the liberal Gainesville Sun, liberal television news channels, or the Daily Show.<br /><br />Honest to God, I think it is a marvelous idea that Dr. Adams has about instituting an affirmative action policy on highering of professors based on political views.  If an institution's goal is more diversity, why is it that the University system has got one of the lowest levels when it come to DIVERSITY OF THOUGHT??	2005-03-21
US	36593828	R1IIOHBW6MOWI4	0399143971	804031392	Freedom's Challenge	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	An overall enjoyable series, but where is the "Challenge"?	As far as the overall story line and characters go, I'd say this book (and the whole series) has five-star potential.  However, one major gripe I have is that the story went along so smoothly, with never a bump in the road and the characters weren't faced with any difficulties that actually threatened their goals or existence.  Actually, every plan they came up with is accomplished without even the slightest glitch and the most traumatic moment for the main character Kris is when she has to wait a few extra days for Zanail to get home and she is worried that something went wrong (which of course it didn't).  I was sure that in this third book, the conclusion to the main story line, there would have to be some kind of surprise or \\"Challenge\\" that would take the characters unprepared and maybe lend a little excitment to the tale.  It's just hard to stay absorbed in a book that is completely predictable and contains zilch for suspense.<br /><br />While the series is well-written and for the most part entertaining and thought-provoking, its just plain disappointing not to encounter some kind of unexpected \\"Challenge\\" to the people of Botany.	2005-03-18
US	36593828	R1TC16JDLVW1S4	0142000000	244426828	Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad (Movie Tie-In)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A terrible story told very well.	Craig accomplished something very important in this account of the Battle for Stalingrad.  He tells the story in a way that acurately reflects the heart and soul of the battle while simultaneously producing a book that is as enjoyable and engaging as a novel.  By collecting most of his material from actual interviews with the survivors of the war, Craig presents a highly personal account of an unbelievably tragic yet heroic piece of human history.  This account is highly accurate historically (except for the few vocabulary errors pointed out in other reviews) and reveals the enormity of the Battle for Stalingrad and WWII as a whole.  The clash between Hitler and Stalin is unmatched in human history and the amount of disregard for human life during that time is hard to understand.  Even if it is hard to imagine something like this happening in more modern times, it is good for people to remember stories such as this one and not to forget the lessons of the past.  Books like this make learning history enjoyable and give us human names and emotions to make the story real in our hearts.	2005-03-07
US	36593828	R3QZCA3F0ZCYFJ	0312853955	484188631	Children of the Mind (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Picks up for an exciting ending to the Ender Saga.	After reading Xenocide, which I thought was a bit boring for lack of action and was really just a book on fictional philosophy, I didn't really have high hopes for this book.  I was very pleased to find that this book contained more of the old Card I was used to reading.  The story line reaches a desperate climax as the death of Jane and the destruction of Lusitainia seem inevitable and yet are prevented by the resourcefullness of three (four counting Jane) species working together for the first time in the Enderverse.  This book contains some very interesting ideas about life, love, and happiness by exploring the inner thoughts of all sorts of people from Ender himself to his puppet-like creations, Young Valentine and Peter.  The characters in this book are easy to fall in love with and bring the reader through many human emotions.  Children of the Mind provides good and solid closure to the Ender saga for everything except the Descoladores.  I wouldn't mind reading something about the future of the united races of Humans, Buggers, and Piggies and their relationship with the creaters of the descolada virus.	2005-02-23
US	36593828	R3L52LWZ94XGM8	0399142703	26419470	Freedom's Choice	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	A good addition to the story.	While I didn't enjoy this book as much as the first in the series, I still found myself staying up too late reading because I just couldn't help getting drawn into the plight of the unwilling colonists.  Zanail and company  really start taking control and affecting their own destiny in this instalment of the story.  Although some of the book seems a bit like old news and I couldn't help feeling bored with parts, the overall story continued on strongly and the stage was set for an exciting conclusion to the story in which the people of Botany may play a crucial role in events that could change not only their own new world, but Earth and the rest of the Universe.  Hopefully (as seems likely) the Eosi/Catteni and the Farmers will come head to head in a conflict that would be entertaining to say the least.  I look forward to reading the other books in this series.	2005-02-14
US	36593828	R2O0D0NAS5WWNF	0395489318	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring: Being the First Part of The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Dont hate me for it, but I like the movie better!	I'm sure this won't be a popular review, but hear me out.  I've heard a lot of people complain that the movies didnt' follow the books closely enough and that they could have been much better if they had done so.  However, after reading this first book of the trilogy, I can honestly say that I personally enjoyed the movie more than the book.. I found it to be more exciting and awe-inspiring.  It may just be that I saw the movie before I read the book (a sin, I know) and my first impression was just so great that I'll never forget it and it would be very dificult to out-do, but there are just some parts of the story in which I think were improved upon in the movie.<br /><br />While both the book and the movie are undoubtably two of the best pieces of art in their genres, they should be considered to be two distinct works.  The movie included a few things that the book didn't and ommited a few things that the book dwelt on.  While some people think that the movie should have been identical to the book as much as possible, I am glad that the director felt some degree of artistic freedom and was able to make some adjustments that he felt would make for a better movie (and which I agree with)..  The book wasn't written as a movie and some of the story just wouldn't have been as good in a movie.  Anyway, maybe its just by bias because of my having watched the movie before reading the book, but I thought the movie really outdid itself and was able to improve on the story.<br /><br />I still think that this is a wonderful book and realize that Tolkien is the Godfather of all that is Fantasy.	2005-02-02
US	36593828	R1BL08SW91R4VL	0441003389	602505473	Freedom's Landing (Freedom Series: Book 1)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	My first McCaffrey book and I thought it was great!	I didn't really expect too much when I picked this book up (after hearing some less than encouraging remarks reguarding other works of McCaffrey), but I was pleasantly surprised to find that I almost immediately got caught up in this one and ejoyed it the whole way through.  While its true that the editing job was insufficient (or maybe it wasn't even proof-read after the type-setting?), I didn't think that it really took too much away from the overall story.  The characters were great (I especially liked Sergent Mitford) and McCaffrey was able to keep the excitment level at a fairly high point throughout the book.  My favorite thing about the book is the concept of world building.  Its cool as hell that the characters were able to start from basically nothing and progress over such a short period of time (3 weeks?) to become nearly self-sufficient.  This isn't so outrageous as some others (see other reviews) would have you believe either, since the world already contained much of what the people needed including: housing, food, electricity, mechanicals, and electronics.  Basically, this is a great book with tons to be praised and little to be criticized.  The relationships between the different alien species and the remarkable tale of human survivorship make for a thrilling read.  I strongly reccomend this book and plan on reading other McCaffrey books in the near future.	2005-01-11
US	36593828	R2FMBGOGQGMYUW	1400060303	956247749	Why Courage Matters: The Way to a Braver Life	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Amazing stories of amazing people.	This short book tells the tale of six or seven very courageous people with short commentary by McCain in between.  The people in this book defied the odds and accomplished the impossible.  Each of their stories are unique, and McCain explains how each of them show courage in different ways under different circumstances.  One consistency between all of the stories in this book is that each of the heros had strong beliefs that drove them to act in amazing ways in the face of extraordinary challenges.  Courage is a hard thing to define, but I think McCain has done more than a fair job of it here, using these people's stories as examples.<br /><br />The one thing I wish this book told more about was McCain's own courage as a prisoner of war in Vietnam.  He really down plays his own heroism a great deal in this book..	2005-01-06
US	36593828	R2X03BHXPRV825	1560760672	485958569	The Parched Sea (Forgotten Realms)	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	There was just something missing in this one	While this book was enjoyable for the most part, I really felt as if it was missing something throughout the story.. Its hard to say exactly what that something is, but I just wasn't fulfilled after this Harpers novel.  More detail should have been provided in some instances and the background characters were too predictable (the sheiks and the Zhents).  There's something else though that left me with a bored feeling throughout much of the novel.  Maybe it was just a little too predictable or maybe I was just looking for something with a little more serious/mature feeling, but I just couldn't ever really get into Ruha and Lander's plight.<br /><br />I guess everyone is entitled to their own opinions, but I was surprised to see this novel getting an overall 4.5 star rating on Amazon.	2005-01-04
US	36593828	R1H8792RJJ95EY	0786915269	787618175	The Annotated Chronicles (Dragonlance: Dragonlance Chronicles)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Great, but first timers shouldn't read the annotated version	I absoultely love that Chronicles trilogy.  These are the books that got me into reading fantasy and I still am (10 years later).  The Dragonlance Chronicles could be my favorite fantasy stories of all time.  There's a lot of heart and feeling in this story and in these characters.  While some have called the DL chronicles immature or too simplistic, I strongly disagree.  Seriously, this is one of the only fantasy books that can really bring tear to my eyes (almost).  Maybe its just me, but I think the reader really gets to feel attached to these characters. <br /> <br />However, I really don't reccomend the annotated version of these for the first time reader.  The annotations can really be distracting from the story and really don't lend much understanding to the story.  Many of them were actually pretty stupid and obvious and I actually found that I enjoyed the books much less.  While they may provide an interesting insight here and there, I'd only reccomend it for the really avid DL fan. <br /> <br />	2004-12-17
US	36593828	R3PV6DQQJNIEAX	0060731583	486983213	AMERICAN SOLDIER	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Reveals the hard work and careful planning for these wars.	Besides outlining the spectacular and honorable life a spectacular and honorable American, this book clearly illustrates the amount of work that our guys have put into the wars in Afganistan and Iraq.  Both have truly been great success stories the likes of which have never been witnessed before in history.  The incredible speed and accuracy of our armed forces have resulted in two wars with never before seen domination of the enemy and unheard of low levels of civilian casualties.  This book makes me proud of our country's military'a abilities to get the job done at the same time as administering life-saving help to the innocent people that may be affected by these necessary wars.<br /><br />In American Soldier, you can read about a true war hero whose bravery and dedication have helped to make the American military what it is today.  General Tommy Franks represents some of the greatest attributes of the character of traditional American values and sounds like the kind of guy that the average American could really relate to and feel comfortable around.  This book was inspiring and entertaining.  Strongly reccommended.	2004-12-07
US	36593828	RNWKXTRT2JPSB	0765309076	209580980	Wellspring of Chaos (Saga of Recluce)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A really great book but definitely not the best of Recluce!	This may be the best book Modesitt's released in the last five years or so, but I wouldn't call it the best of the Recluce series.  Being fairly predictable and sometimes a bit too plodding, this book didn't live up to its real potential.  Most of the book was really great and I am still tempted to give a 5-star ranking.  Mainly, Kharl is a truly great character that the reader really feels like he understands.  More mature than your normal fantasy hero, and more set in his ways, Kharl is a simple man who believes in what is right but feels lost in a world that doesn't seem to hold the same values and is full of gross coruption.  When Kharl tries to do what little he can to uphold his values, the backlash is such that he feels his life is over.  It's all he can do to survive and this book takes you from Kharl's most desperate time through his inevitable great triumph and beautiful reward.  Also, Modesitt finally got around to giving us a tour of the other lands of his world.  Austra, Nordla, and Hamor were visited by Kharl during his time as a sailor and they all have much potential for future books.  I'd especially like to read more of Hamor.  I hope that Modesitt will continue with his story of Kharl in future books.	2004-12-01
US	36593828	R1NCXROK7L77GA	0061051713	767649962	The King of Dreams (Prestimion Trilogy)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not the best way to finish off the Majipoor saga.	This book, like most of the other Majipoor books, was disappointing at best.  Although I do enjoy the detailed world that Silverberg has created, I just have a hard time really getting excited about a story line that even the characters in the book don't seem too concerned over!  Way too much time is spent on insignificant little sideplots and wearisome detailed descriptions of everything from the food thats eaten to the color of the leaves of a tree.  I want more action, more conflict, and more excitment!  I know part of that is just Silverberg's style, but most of these Majipoor books just havn't done it for me.<br /><br />This book in particular really should have been much better.  The basic plot had great potential, with Mandralisca using the Barjazid helmet to mess with peoples minds and the possibility of a inter-continental war.  Also, the way the book ended was weak.  You take 400-something pages to gradually (very gradually) build up to a climax and then have it end in a completely predictable and insanely quick way.  Nothing in this entire book was a surprise (except maybe that Septach Melyn appears to be gay??) and although some of it was quite interesting, it didn't really do much to add to the overall story or to keep the reader interested.<br /><br />I think Silverberg was just tired of writing about Majipoor and just decided to F-it and cap it off with this second rate work.	2004-11-17
US	36593828	R14KR49RIN6MR6	0765305224	768895051	Naked Empire (Sword of Truth)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Now you're just trying to drag out the series	Attention Goodkind: Finish this series and start a new one!<br /><br />I've really enjoyed reading this whole series, but I can't help to feel that Goodkind is just trying to milk it for all its worth.  I mean, in the end of this book the characters are all in the same situation as they were in the beginning!  Richard down in the old world presumably heading up north to finish off the battle with Jagang.  Zedd still guarding the Wizard's Keep, the D'Haran army guarding the mountain passes, Jagang's army ready to invade D'Hara, and the world of magic is still threatened by the release of the chimes...  It just seems like nothing really got accomplished in this one.  Instead, a whole new empire of people (the Bandakar, pristinely ungifted) were discovered and the plot took a book-long detour where Richard was forced into solving yet another unforseen problem.<br /><br />For the most part though, this book was enjoyable and well written.  I like the logical philosophy of the obviously Conservative Goodkind.  Everyone must look out for themselves and make their own life better (rather than depending on the government for support) and hold other people accountable for their actions.  The story was intriguing and entertaining. The characters were personable and fun to read about.  Overall this book lived up to my expectations of Goodkind.	2004-11-01
US	36593828	R3XM2D9SY6AFC	0786916095	623319343	2: Dragons of Winter Night (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume II)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The best book of one of the best fantasy trilogies out there	Dragons of Winter Night is my favorite book of the awesome Chronicles trilogy.  The story undergoes major changes with a general trend from the smaller world of the first book, in which the companions are pretty much isolated in their own little adventure, to the larger world of this book, in which the rest of the land gets more involved with the story.  The cast of characters is expanded with the addition of Silvara, Kitiara, and Derek Crownguard and the other Knights of Solamnia.  Also, the other races and groups of Krynn get more involved in this one..  The dwarves, the Silvanesti elves, and the humans of Tarsis and Palanthas.  Even the dragons and the draconians become a bit more personal and human-like.<br /><br />The plot of this one also expands the story exponentially.  With the discovery of the Dragon Orbs, the Dragonlance, and the existence of the good dragons, some hope is given to the people of Krynn even during their darkest hour.  The book ends with the unavoidable and foreshadowed death of the hero Sturm Brightblade in what is one of the most gripping scenes in fantasy I've ever read.  With Tas learning how to use the Dragon Ord and Laurana somehow controlling one, Raistlin learning to control another one, Tanis in bed with the enemey, Gilthanas on some secret mission with a silver dragon, the Solomnic Knights united after Sturm's sacrifice, and the return of Fizban, this book leaves the reader with a serious burning desire to read the last installment of the trilogy.<br /><br />This book is my favorite of the trilogy because I feel that this is the book that the story really begins to fully mature and live up to what it was meant to be.  It seems that Weis and Hickman really started taking this story  more seriously with this one, maybe getting away from the classic D&D type story telling of the first book.  While it does provide a pretty dark and gloomy overshadowing on the lives of the heros, there is also that enticing little bit of hope that influences them to continue their fight.influences them to continue their fight.	2004-10-20
US	36593828	R2HVAI67X82DVJ	0812509250	4976316	Xenocide: Volume Three of the Ender Quintet	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Full of philosophy, no action to speak of.	This was a very disapointing read.  The first two books of the Ender series are some of my favorite books of all times so its easy to see that I would have high expectations for this one.  Instead of the suspense, excitement, and novelty of the first two books, this one basically sinks into complicated (and fantastical) philosophical debates over everything from the meaning of life to instantaneous travel and everything in between.. While those might seem like pretty interesting topics, Card definitely spends way too much time and serious thought into them only to have them all solved by a simple answer that doesn't really make any sense anyway.  It seemed that Card was really trying to show his readers how much of a genious and deep thinker he is.<br /><br />The whole book is spent on Lusitania with Ender and his friends trying to figure out a way to replace the descolada while keeping the pequininos alive and to find a way to get all the people off the planet before the fleet from Starways Congress lets loose with the Little Doctor molecular disruptor cannon.  I did somewhat enjoy the tangent of the Godspoken of Path and their Congressionally induced brain defects that makes them into some kind of think-tank for the government while imprisoning them with their redardation.<br /><br />Overall, the book had a lot more potential than it lived up to.  The plot stayed mainly on focus but got really bogged down in extra heavy philosophy, making for a pretty boring overall read.  I will say that the book left off with great possibilities for the next (and last) book of the series.  With most of the philosophising out of the way (I hope) and with the uncovering of the evils of Congress, the introduction of young Peter, and the freedom of the Lusitanians from the descolada virus, the next book should hold some pretty exciting scenarios.	2004-10-15
US	36593828	R8LU9HAFPSG6I	0786915749	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume I)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Modern Classic.	This first book in the wonderful Dragonlance Chronicles Trilogy introduces a world that people have come to truly love.  The world of Krynn has given rise to what must be a hundred novels that loyal fans gobble up.  This loyalty is inspired mainly by these first three books in the saga, starting with Dragons of Autumn Twilight.  It was the first Dragonlance book I read (as it should be everyone's) and it is the one I will always remember most vividly.  The introduction of some of the coolest characters in fatasy literature and their crazy adventures through a new and unique world fighting draconians, goblins, and dragons.  Tas, Flint, Tanis, Caramon, Sturm, Raistlin, Goldmoon, and Riverwind will always be the classic fantasy heroes to me, whom I can compare and relate heroes from other books.  These characters are not the unrealistically superhero-like and unstoppable players like in some other books (Drizzt for example) but are instead very life-like (as far as fantasy goes) with some pretty major faults of their own.<br /><br />It is interesting to see how the writing style of Weis and Hickman has changed over the years and its obvious that in this first collaborative book they tried very hard to stick to the AD&D format which actually might take some good away from this first book of the series.  Overall though, this book and this series is one of the greatest fantasy stories I've ever read and has become a classic that every fantasy fan should read.	2004-10-05
US	36593828	R38JTCH0ML2AUI	0553106406	463185109	Assassin's Quest (Farseer, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Got a little dragged out but finished off a great trilogy.	Assassin's Quest is the final book in the excellent Farseer Trilogy.  When taken as a whole, this trilogy is really one of the best fantasy stories I've ever read, and that is saying a lot.  That being said, this final book of the series was a bit frustrating at times.  It was still really good and fun to read (the characters and the drama in these books make them hard to put down) but at times it really seemed to be stretched out too much.  I mean, this whole book was just about Fitz's journey to find King Verity somewhere past the mountains and only in the last 30 pages or so did anything really get wrapped up.  But, that's the way it was meant to be so I won't complain too much..  This book does a fairly nice job of tying up all the loose ends and mysteries that the reader has been wondering about ever since book one (except Hobb never really explained Forging to my satisfaction).  The characters learned tough lessons and Sacrifices were made out of almost all of them in some way but the ending came out to be a fairly happy one.  I look forward to reading Hobb's next series, The Liveship Traders.	2004-09-28
US	36593828	R3GCJL53DH8SSO	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	5	13	17	N	Y	Simply DEVASTATING!	A clear look into the character of John Kerry.<br /><br />I doubt that anyone who actually reads this book could bring themselves to vote for John Kerry, no matter how much they might dislike Bush.  This book was written by Kerry's own \\"band of brothers\\" that he loves to talk about.  Every single commanding officer and over 200 other Vietnam Vets that served with Kerry have publically come out to stand against him.  Only one of Kerry's fellow officers (1/20 of the officers in that picture that airs on Kerry's campaign ad) has shown his support for Kerry.  Who are you going to beilieve about what happened and whether or not John Kerry really is fit for command of the United States?  These men who were there and served with Kerry and have let their anger at him go unpublished for thirty years but now have no choice because he is trying to become the President, or John Kerry, the radical anitwar protestor (who met with the leader of the Viet Kong in Paris while his brothers were still over their dying) turned proud war hero?<br /><br />This book chronicles story after story of Kerry's deceptions, betrayals, and blatant lies.  These stories come from a wide variety of sources so that even a sceptic must believe that at least some of them hold the truth.<br /><br />Senator Kerry will say anything and everything if he believes that it will help him win the public's support.  We've seen this in many occasions as Kerry has flip-flopped on issue after issue, strictly depending on what seems to be the popular or proper position of the ocassion.  He has proved himself a hypocrite time and again even in this '04 presidential race.  Trying to make Bush out to be hiding something about his National Guard records while at the same time its Kerry who has refused to sign form 180 which would release his records. (Bush has signed the form).<br /><br />Kerry won't even answer to most of the allegations in this book.  He instead wants to make out the authors, and indeed all 200-something vets involved in this group, to be some kind of anit-patriotic, Republican attack machine.  There is no credible link between these Vietnam Vets, who have held in check their resentment of Kerry for so long but who no longer can because of the threat they believe Kerry presents to the nation, and the Republicans.  These people are the true war heros and they simply want America to know the real John Kerry.<br /><br />If you have questions about who you are going to vote for this November or if you'd just like a closer look at the character of John Kerry, I strongly reccomend this book.d all 200-something vets involved in this group, to be some kind of anit-patriotic, Republican attack machine.  There is no credible link between these Vietnam Vets, who have held in check their resentment of Kerry for so long but who no longer can because of the threat they believe Kerry presents to the nation, and the Republicans.  These people are the true war heros and they simply want America to know the real John Kerry.   <br /> <br />If you have questions about who you are going to vote for this November or if you'd just like a closer look at the character of John Kerry, I strongly reccomend this book.	2004-09-18
US	36593828	R3DVPONTGYZSSU	0312873794	17144504	Scion of Cyador (Saga of Recluce)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great story and characters, too much repetition	I really enjoyed reading this book and its really on a 5-star caliber, but I just can't help being a little frustrated at how repeptitive Modesitt is, not only throughout the series, but also within this one book.  I mean, how many times do you have to describe how much Lorn loves the Pearapple tarts and does he really need to read the same five poems over and over again??  Even still, I'd give this one 4.5 stars because this really is a great story that was a lot of fun to read.  Lorn and the other characters are really great and the whole land of Cyador with all of its political factions, secrecy, and plotting makes up to a very believable and exciting world.  I'd reccomend this one but remember to read the Magi'i of Cyador first (you don't need to read the rest of the series though and actually these two would be a pretty good place to begin).	2004-09-16
US	36593828	RD9BZ3MU870G5	1563524872	199819751	The Terrible Truth About Liberals	Books	5	10	15	N	Y	Boortz tells it like it is!!!	I sure am thankful for people like Neal and Rush who attempt to help people like me and you remember what America stands for and what it can be.  They do this even in the face of an overwhelmningly liberal media that controls basically everything someone who doesn't listen to talk radio sees and hears..  Even after being labeled as \\"hate radio\\" hosts and having the media turn millions of Americans against them, Boortz and Limbaugh continue the fight.  And what an important fight it is too!!  We can't afford to let control of this country fall into the hands of these liberal politicians who will say and do ANYTHING if they think it'll get them votes.  (Just look at John Kerry and his tendency to flip or flop whichever way he thinks will be the most popular at any moment).  In this book, Neal Boortz spells it out plain and simple: the liberal agenda and the threat that it poses to America and to our freedom to be an individual and make choices on our own.  It's not just an illogical tirade.  Neal backs up his claims with concrete examples..  I strongly reccomend this book to anyone, liberal or conservative or in between.	2004-09-14
US	36593828	R11VIALZA58Q4X	0061058106	181191924	Lord Prestimion (Prestimion Trilogy)	Books	2	1	2	N	Y	YAWN...  Very boring.. the worst of the series thus far.	Well, even though this book was quite long, not much actually happened in it.  The storyline at the end of this one hasn't really changed much at all since the last book.  Basically this whole novel was centered around the Procurator of Nimoya's escape from Prestimion and the Coronal's efforts to locate him..  The spreading madness on Majipoor was emphasized but nothing was ever done about it be Prestimion..  Most of the book was taken up by descriptions of the landscape and fauna of the places that Prestimion journeyed through..  Nothing really exciting or surprising happened at all.  Yawn..  Wouldn't reccomend this one.  I guess I'll go ahead and read the last of the series since I've already come this far, but I don't really have high hopes for it..	2004-09-07
US	36593828	RZGCDBEA4VOP3	0812513509	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (Ender Quartet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Might be even better than Ender's Game.	In some ways, this book was even more enjoyable than Ender's Game, and that is saying a LOT.  Speaker for the Dead seems to be a lot more of a mature read to me for several reasons.  One being that Ender himself is more mature and confidant and so his thought processes and actions have more depth behind them..  Ender is almost like some kind of \\"holy man\\" in this book while in Ender's Game he was more of a depressed little boy.  Actually, I thought that the whole concept of this book was cool as hell even though I was a bit skeptical at first learning about the \\"Piggies\\"..  but even they turned out to be interesting.  I'd actually go as far as to say that this is the best book by Card that I've read thus far.  Really looking forward to Xenocide!	2004-08-27
US	36593828	R1CJR37Q8X54EI	0553573411	675959125	Royal Assassin (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	The whole world collapses for Fitz, a wonderful read!!	Once again I was VERY impressed with Hobb's writing and world building skill.  After reading the first two books of this series I almost feel like I actually know the characters.  A couple of them I really like and a bunch of them I really hate. It really makes it interesting when the author can actually make her readers care about the characters.  While this book might not be as complex as some of the other popular fantasy out there (George R Martin, Robert Jordan) its still a really great read and I would reccomend it to anybody!<br /><br />In Royal Assassin, Fitz has come back from the Mountain Kingdom knowing that he has enemies and even knowing who they are while still not being able to do anything about it.  Its incredibly frustrating for him to watch as his world is wrecked all around him and him being powerless to do as he wishes because his King forbids it.  Throughout the book, bad things just keep happening more and more and Prince Regal gets more and more blatant with his treachery until it all comes crashing down in the last part of the book.. The next in the series should be really great.  Hopefully Regal will get whats coming to him (as Im sure he will!)<br /><br />Definite *****!!	2004-08-19
US	36593828	R2IL45X7WNX9QU	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Over-the-top wit.	Everyone should read this book.  It doesn't have the greatest plot or the coolest characters, and it isn't a \\"I can't put it down\\" type of exciting novel, but it will help you relax and think about life and the world in a new way.  It's also easy to read so that you won't feel like you've wasted too much time after you've finished.<br /><br />This is really a funny book and throughout the whole thing you really can't know what the expect next because everything is so crazy as the be totally unpredictable...  At some points though I think that Adams tried a little bit too hard to be witty, ending up with some points in the book that are so ridiculous as to be sickening.  I really enjoyed this but I'm not running to the store to get the next one.	2004-08-10
US	36593828	R30EX3ZQGXZNF2	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	4	5	9	N	Y	Good, but a bit disappointing.	I had heard so much hype about this being \\"one of the best books by the best SF writer ever,\\" that my expectations were unfairly too high.  While this book was really well written and surely deserves to be considered a classic, the story just didn't really overwhem me like I had hoped.  It basically consists of an interstellar envoy's (Ai) adventures attempting to convince the leaders of the worled known as Winter to accept the reality of and to become part of the Universal community.  Sounds like it could be really exciting right?  Well, it should have been a bit more so than it was.  For one thing, the book was quite predictable and tended to drag out some boring parts here and there.  A lot of time was spent following the characters along a journey over a glacier (about 25% of the book) and it didn't really have a big impact on the plot of the book.  Some pretty interesting character relationships were developed and the whole culture of Winter was very interesting (the people there are unisexuals..)  So, the book was good but don't expect too much or you'll be disappointed too.	2004-08-10
US	36593828	R1D8Z9MR18UPXY	0812579488	745453187	Magi'i of Cyador (The Saga of Recluce)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Dissapointing.  The begining of the end for Cyador.	While much of this book was pretty entertaining, the characters are cool, and the basic plot worked up to be decent, this is still a pretty boring book.  It gets really repetetive and is somewhat predictable.  I guess the main point of this book is just to set the reader up for the next one (at least I hope that's what's going on..)  The Magi'i of Cyador is basically just the story of Lorn growing up and getting himself into position to do some great things in the upcoming troubles for his land.  Lorn is a Mage, a Lancer officer, and a trader (basically a member of all three powerful classes of his culture) by the time this book ends and it seems to me at least (remember I havn't read the next book) that he is in pretty good shape to muve up quickly in the world, maybe even to the VERY top.  I think that I didn't really  enjoy this book too much because it tended to get bogged down in the daily routines of Lorn and didn't explain all of the secret plottings and moves of his enemies.  I just hope that the next book will be really good because this one just felt like it was setting you up for another story.	2004-07-20
US	36593828	R1T1VZ5FG6XU71	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very compelling, but should give more opposing arguments.	Strobel does an excellent job of examining the evidence for the Ressurection of Christ from all angles.  His findings are very logical and convincing.  This is a really good book to read if you are as confused and skeptical as I have recently become.  The methodical way that Strobel presents the evidence in this book argues very very strongly for the truth of the Bible.  The only shortcoming as far as I'm concerned is his neglecting to really give the full arguments for the liberals and atheists (or if he did, they sure don't have very solid cases).  I would highly reccomend this book to anyone interested in learning about the history and the evidence of Christ and the church.	2004-07-08
US	36593828	R1X1KCDDFBAUZ6	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Wonderful	This book was way better than I had expected!  Great story-telling (even though I don't usually like the first person), great characters (Burrich and Chade are my favorite), suspense, mystery, and just plain crazy plot turns make this one an easy 5-star!  While most of the book is pretty tough on Fitz (the main character) and might be a bit depressing, the last couple of chapters are completely awesome.  This is really an exciting and entertaining book and I can't wait to read the rest of the series.  Highly reccomended for anyone who likes a unique world with a great story.	2004-07-08
US	36593828	R13DL00RWBM06B	0812533313	787762089	The Worthing Saga	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Awesome book, awesome concept	I think that this is one of Card's best books.  A little more mature than Ender's Game and simply more entertaining than the Homecoming series.  In the Worthing Chronicles (the first and main part of this book), the story of Lared and Jason Worthing is told.  The book contains a very complex universe in the distant future with many diferent planets and cultures.  The most fascinating is the culture of the planet Capitol and the use of somec to obtain \\"immortality\\" by the rich and famous.  The connections between this society and our own are somewhat disturbing with the complete abandon of any kind of morals and the separation of the elite classes from the others.  My favorite character in the book has got to be Abner Doon, whom some people consider the \\"devil\\" but could be said to have saved the human race.  The lives of Lared and the other villagers are very interesting and Card's way of writing to explain multiple cultures and tie in the distand past with the present is amazing.  The last part of this book, Tales of Capitol and Tales of the Forest of Waters, help to tie together a lot of missing information and just make the whole story better by increasing the reader's understanding of the very complex universe that Card has created.  I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and reccomend it to anyone of any age.	2004-06-29
US	36593828	R2K8LP47A5FHPP	0312867670	896363932	Colors of Chaos (Saga of Recluce)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Probably the best of the series so far.	This book along with the previous book, The White Order, make up a really great story about the white mage Cerryl.  While every other book in the series is written from the perspective of the Blacks and portrays all chaos wizards to be totally evil (which most of them seem to be), these books provide a look into the workings of the Whites.  It turns out that not all whites are truly evil and in fact many have very honorable ambitions to help the world rather than take it over.  The Colors of Chaos was especially interesting because it told the same story as The Magic Engineer (with Dorrin the smith) exept from the perspective of Cerryl.  It shows how there are two sides to every coin and that peole from both sides (except a few such as Jeslek & Anya) actually believe that they are on the side of good.  In this story, told from the perspective of the Whites, Dorrin the smith and Recluce seem to be the bad guys because of their support of rulers who refuse to pay the road tariffs (to the detriment of all of Candar).<br />Also, Modesitt's writing style has come a long way from his earlier novels and this book was much more interesting and gripping than its predecessors...  I strongly reccomend this book for any Modesitt fans or fans of fantasy in general (although I believe that you'll have a much better appreciation of this one if you read the others in the series first).  This book does much to patch up the complex story of the Recluce Saga.	2004-06-17
US	36593828	R3B1JSICT9GUAG	0880389206	5618724	Exile: Forgotten Realms (The Dark Elf Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The story continues with just as much excitment as you hoped	As you've come to expect, Salvatore gives us another thriller!!This one is really fun to read.<br />The story of Drizzt continues in this novel of the Underdark in which Drizzt battles within himself to maintain his identity and not loose himself to the instinctual hunter/killer that he feels himself becoming. Drizzt journeys through the subteranean world, encountering many challenges and even making a couple of friends. His time in Blingdenstone, the deep gnome city is really cool and Belwar is a cool character with mithral forged hands.. Most of the excitement comes from Drizzt's father, Zak, who has been reanimated by the Spider Queen to hunt down Drizzt. The book ends in a really awesome way, with the fall of Drizzt's evil family and Dinin joining an outlaw group of rouges, which has definite promise for the next book.	2004-06-17
US	36593828	R1M9S3YP6OA57G	0743474678	548287109	The Dragon Masters: The Definitive Edition Of The  Hugo - Award Winning Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A couple of classics form the master of S.F.	Both of the novellas including in this book are great.  I actually enjoyed the Last Castle a little more than The Dragon Masters.. I think that's just because of the characters and comical interactions among them.  These honorable princes of Earth are so full of being dignified that they refuse to dirty their hands even when it comes to saving their own skins!  Finally a couple of them see that the benefits of living make up for any damage a man's reputation might take by doing labor.  Also, the genetic engineering of alien races for the benefit of humans(which is a common theme in both stories) is a cool concept, although it is hard to believe that humans might become so completely dependent upon their slaves as they have in the Last Castle.  This is a really easy book to read and very enjoyable so I highly recommend it.	2004-06-02
US	36593828	RXPVDFYJEWOZ7	0061057800	552938824	Sorcerers of Majipoor (Prestimion Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Personally thought it was the best of the Majipoor so far.	This is the Tale of the coming to power of the Coronal Lord Prestimion.  Its really got the flavor of an epic saga, the way the book progresses through time and events.  It's got friends, enemies, lust, idealism, betrayal, sorcery, defeat, triumph, and war.  There is really very little that this book lacked.  The characters are bad-ass (good and bad) and the plot is interesting.  Very few parts of the book dragged out too long and the story progressed very quickly, keeping the reader interested, throughout the entire book (and its a long book).  I strongly reccomend this book to anyone and can't wait to read Lord Prestimion, the next in the series.	2004-05-28
US	36593828	RGP62VU51QKE2	1560760478	246260210	Sojourn: The Dark Elf Trilogy, Part 3 (Forgotten Realms: The Legend of Drizzt, Book III)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Maybe the best of the Drizzt books I've read	This book was awesome.  Exciting and emotionally moving the entire way through.  While some of the other Salvatore books are pretty basic hack and slash fantasy, this book provides much more than that.<br />The story is of Drizzt's first experiences on the surface world away from the Underdark in which he lived the first 40-something years of his life.  He encounters many difficulties and pains, but also learns to appreciate the beauty and the wonder of the world around him.  Drizzt is confronted mainly by misunderstanding and distrust of those he meets, but does find some friends, including an old blind ranger that shows in the truth of his destiny: to be a Ranger.  My favorite character of the book has to be Roddy McGristle with the mean yellow dogs, an obsesive bounty hunter that is determined to get Drizzt if it costs him everything.<br />I highly reccomend this book to anybody.	2004-05-18
US	36593828	R2M5RSXLQP3NE6	0575072563	688775501	Debt of Bones (Sword of Truth Prequel Novel)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A great SHORT story telling of the rise of the boundaries	While this book wasn't on the same level as the other books by Goodkind (meaning that its not an epic story of 700+ pgs) this short novella is still great.  It tells a story that has desperately needed some clarification in relatively few pages.  Zedd is a badass who cannot be stopped and the other characters in this one don't distract the reader from the main purpose of the story.  I can understand how some fans could be disapointed, but you can't expect an epic tale about a time gone past and a story that you already know the outcome of.  For anyone interested in Goodkind's Sword of Truth series, I would reccomend this book.  It doesn't take much time (one day) and adds to the realism of Goodkind's world.	2004-05-12
US	36593828	R1K77NA94W3DV2	0812541715	94363789	The White Order (Saga of Recluce #8)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Finally a stroy from the other side of the coin	While this wasn't really the most exciting book of the series, it was still one of the best.  Mainly because of the alternative perspective that it gives the reader about Whites.  This book chronicles the rise of Cerryl, who one day becomes the leader of the Whites in their fight against Recluce.  This book makes it clear that all Whites aren't evil and that the school of white mages actually teaches and believes that it does more good for Candar than bad, and even the bad is only a necessary action for the future good of the people.<br />This book is very well written (as are all of Modesitt's books) and the characters are great.  The story line is cool, with plenty of action as well as lots of intrigue within the order of the Whites (mainly counter play between Sterol and Jeslek).  This book is definitely a valuable addition to the saga of Recluce.  Modesitt continues to fill in the missing blanks of his multi-generational story.	2004-05-09
US	36593828	R10TJXN5S93ZSM	0880389206	5618724	Exile: Forgotten Realms (The Dark Elf Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another thriller, as expected.	The story of Drizzt continues in this novel of the Underdark in which Drizzt battles within himself to maintain his identity and not loose himself to the instinctual hunter/killer that he feels himself becoming.  Drizzt journeys through the subteranean world, encountering many challenges and even making a couple of friends.  His time in Blingdenstone, the deep gnome city is really cool and Belwar is a cool character with mithral forged hands..  Most of the excitement comes from Drizzt's father, Zak, who has been reanimated by the Spider Queen to hunt down Drizzt.  The book ends in a really awesome way, with the fall of Drizzt's evil family and Dinin joining an outlaw group of rouges, which has definite promise for the next book.	2004-04-26
US	36593828	R1RI0616G2WBNK	0671251112	676377593	The Dukes:  A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A tale of nobility, what!	The book was dissapointing because of the lack of action and suspense, but very interesting in its insights into 18th-19th century life of the England's nobility.  The story line itself was only somewhat entertaining and progressed rather slowly through four generations of Dukes (Augustus, Alfred, Charles, and Simon).  The characters were really good, believable, varied, and fun, but the absence of drama and action made for a pretty unexciting book.<br />For anyone who is just interested in learning more about the way of life 100-200 years ago in England, particularly among the nobility, this would be a good book.  Pretty fun to read, very detailed about everything and seemingly accurate about most.  This book really provides an interesting insight about the times and makes you realize how drastically everything has changed since then.	2004-04-21
US	36593828	R2K6P8YDZ836IQ	0812532988	708369507	Earthborn (Homecoming)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Good book but disappointing: missed the old characters	This is really a great book as far as the storyline goes, but I was hoping to get more of the old characters.  While they were talked about as legends and heroes, I really wanted to see what actually happened to them.  Specifically, I was expecting to learn about the war between Nafari and the Elemaki.<br />I can't really complain too much though because I really did enjoy this book, including the new characters.	2004-04-13
US	36593828	R3A4J1KYRA4J6B	0811840417	39158240	Robota	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Great art and solid story	While the story here is pretty simple and wouldn't normally be considered a great sci-fi epic, it is still a cool concept and really well-written.  I actually thought that the story would have been more generic, maybe even boring.  But, I was plesantly surprised by the plot twists and surprises I found. And, the art is totally awesome.	2004-04-13
US	36593828	R26U3KPFGAFHND	0553573276	436037115	Mountains of Majipoor, The	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A great short story in the realm of Majipoor	While I wouldn't put this book on the same level as Valentine Pontifex just because of its size, it is still a really fun book to read.  WHile the events here do not affect the world of Majipoor in any big way, the simplicity and excitment of this one are really great.<br />Basically, the story consists of a prince from Castle Mount (Harpirias) being sent on a mission to recover a team of scientist that were captured by a lost tribe of barbarians (the Othinor) in the Kyhntor Mountains.  While the story line was very simple, the action was great and the interactions among the characters (which had major communication problems) were entertaining and interesting.<br />This is a short, easy read, and I'd reccomend it to anyone who has enjoyed Silverberg's other Majipoor novels.	2004-04-02
US	36593828	RGQW7QYFVT99Z	0880389052	243097701	Homeland (Forgotten Realms)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great action and provides understanding of the drow.	This is a great book about Drizzt's upbringing as a drow and his struggles against his culture.  A lot of light is shown on the mysterious world of Menzoberanzon and the rest of the underdark, as well as the drow ways and society.<br />With lots of action and great story telling, this book is hella fun to read.  The intrigue and secret (but not so secret) plotting and betrayals that are so common in Drizzt's homeland help the reader to better understand the ways of the drow and the reasons for the corruption of most drow people.  The fights between Drizzt and Zak were sweet and the last part of the book, in which Drizzt killed Masoj and Alton and defied his matron mother Malice, was awesome.  Exciting stuff.	2004-03-30
US	36593828	R2AZJJIY7VJTMV	0812571304	253185172	The Chaos Balance (Saga of Recluce)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A good story, but very similar to others in the series.	This books chronicles the fall of Cyador and the rise of Naclos.  Even though the history and information about chaos/order relationships contained in this one are important for a reader wanting to understand the world of Recluce, I was somewhat disapointed by the fact that this book reads almost exactly like the others in the series.  Basically, Nylan, your typical smith/order-mage, spends most of the book struggling to understand and master his powers.  The book ends in the same way most of the others have- Nylan destroying a huge White army at the last possible second and being punished for it just like all the other heroes have been, by going blind and aging.  I did like the characters in this one, good and bad, but I felt like I knew what was going to happen the entire time (which it turns out I did) so I didn't really get caught up in the suspense very much, just tried to get through it in a hurry to more on to the next one, which doesn't make for enjoyable reading.  Hopefully in future books, Modesitt will change up the general story outline, maybe detailing the colonization of the planet by the Rats.	2004-03-23
US	36593828	R1GFJ29G8BIC3H	0812532961	246316332	Earthfall: Homecoming: Volume 4 (Homecoming Saga)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Wonderfully imaginative.  The recolonization of Earth.	This book, just like all the others in this series, is great for many reasons, but what I especially liked about this particular one was the greater role played by the angels and the diggers.  In getting to know the digger/angel people (particualarly Pto and Poto) on a personal level, a whole new demension is added to the story.  All of the original characters continue to act just like you'd expect them to, so something new was needed and Card provided it with the introduction of the angels and diggers and their societies.  I really liked how all of the events in this book unfolded and the next book promises to hold lots of excitment.  Shedemei as somekind of \\"Mother Earth\\" and Nafai and Elemak as the angel's and the digger's kings, with war on the way.  I only hope that the last few pages of this book are not literal because that would mean that the next book would contain none of the old characters at all, but instead would take place sometime in the distant future when only legends and stories survive from all that has happened so far.	2004-02-27
US	36593828	R3W0XS74N3EMOQ	0061054860	138119246	Valentine Pontifex (Majipoor Cycle)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Everybody is too harsh on this one	I really enjoyed this book, actually thought that it was better than the first two in the series.  Hissune and the other princes on Castle Mount were realistic and cool, Faraataa was a really good (crazy as hell) bad guy, and the sea-dragons were finally revealed as the all-knowing god-like creatures that Silverberg intended for them to be the whole time.  Like everybody else, I was disapointed that Valentine didn't toughen up a bit, but it would have changed his character too much and Silverberg's whole message was to promote the power of love, not hate, man!  The descriptions and the detail of the world of Majipoor were excellent (and didn't drone on as much as the first book) and the immediate impact of the pestilences and plagues on society was realistically horrible.  Something similar would not be out of the question of happening in our world and, unfortunately, I believe that the impact it would have on us would be similar.  I look forward to reading the next installment of the Majipoor Saga, the Mountains of Majipoor.	2004-02-20
US	36593828	R3TDPH0VTVU6CN	0812532635	247851703	The Ships of Earth (Homecoming Saga)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent continuation of the story.	While the reader doesn't really get to experience the actual ships of Earth in this book, it is still really enjoyable.  The character interactions in this one are absolutely wonderful, providing realistic representations of human emotion and thought patterns.<br />The story itself is really good too.  With such a misfit group of people thrown together, you'd expect a lot of drama.  Well, you won't be disappointed because this book contains a rediculous amount of plotting and planning by two-faced people who all think that they understand everything, while they actually don't have any clue as to what is really going down.  Nafai becomes a complete bad ass at the end of this one, and his brothers reach a peak of their treachery.<br />A really great tale.  And only Card can advance seven years of his story in two paragraphs without pissing off the reader!	2004-02-14
US	36593828	RERELZH02SL2X	0767903439	900427094	The Marriage of Sense and Soul: Integrating Science and Religion	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Science vs. Religion?  Why must it be so?	Ken Wilbur has got to be one of the smartest authors that I've come across.  While a good portion of this book was a bit over my head, I did come away with a good understanding of his major point.  It is important for modern society and science to accept the reality of spirituality and this will not happen if science continues to categorize anything without hard evidence to support it as nonsence.	2004-02-14
US	36593828	RSD4RNGWO8U7E	0312859058	951716918	Fall of Angels	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Even further back in time.  Good, but predictable.	The Fall of Angels chronicles the arrival of the Angels on the world of Recluce, the founding of Westwind, and the birth of the Legend.  The book follows the same general theme as most of the previous books, with an Order-mage/engineer forging weapons with which to defend against the forces of Chaos.  I really liked the characters in the book, and Modesitt brings out his best a far as dialogue and character interaction.<br />While the book was really fun to read and and the story line progressed smoothly and quickly, I thought that it was very predictable (thus the sub 5-star rating).  I mean, considering the fact that the reader knows that Westwind survives and that the Legend lives on, there weren't really too many possible outcomes for this one.  Also, with Ryba's foresight, she kept predicting occurances that would come later in the book.  I'd really be interested in reading more about Heaven itself.	2004-02-06
US	36593828	R35FZI7LYKYK3I	0812532619	641114031	The Call of Earth (Homecoming #2) (Homecoming Saga)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Top notch Card	This is an all around excellent book.  An incredible cast of characters, a great plot, plenty of crazy twists and turns, and dialect that brings it all to life.  While all of the characters from the first book play a big part in this one too, the new character, General Moozh, puts this book on a diferent level.  It's going to be hard for the rest of the series to live up to expectations if General Moozh isn't replaced by someone as likeable.  However, this books leaves off with the Earthbound party just leaving Bascilica, so the rest of the serires should hold some great excitement.  This book was enhanced by the abundancy of dreams, in my opinion.  It brings a somehow more serious and meaningful prospective to the whole story.  I just hope that the rest of the series can live up to such a high standard.<br />One question:  What scene is the cover of the book depicting??	2004-01-24
US	36593828	R2UOM6BSLDYGCK	0812532597	755744029	The Memory of Earth (Homecoming)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	So, So, as far as Card goes	After reading the Ender's Game series, its hard not to be a bit dissapointed by this book.  I'm not going to get too discouraged however, because I see the foundation for lots of potentially awesome scenarios (which I hope to find in the rest of the series) established in this book.  The characters in this book are actually some of the coolest I've seen in a while, although after reading this first book, you don't really feel like you know them very well. Still, the good guys are really good and the bad guys are really fun to hate.  There are still a lot of mysteries that are yet to be unveiled and I'm sure that the next four books will explain some of them fully.  The low rating basically comes from the lack of serious action.  There are a few exciting parts, but not what I've become used to in Card's books.  The overall plot is cool as hell though, with the Oversoul computer loosing control over the minds of the planet Harmony and trying to find a way to return to Mother Earth.  Even though this book isn't one of my favorites, I still look forward to reading the rest of the series.	2004-01-21
US	36593828	RF681K6UPA0YJ	0061054852	129624646	Majipoor Chronicles (Majipoor Cycle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fun book to read that provides a lot of background	The Majipoor Chronicles are basically just a series of short stories based on events of the past on Majipoor.  Together, these stories really bring to life this fantastic world in the mind of the reader.  The events transcribed in this book occured over a long range of time (~9,000 years I think) and provide insights into the way of life in many different times and places.  While non of the stories deserve a 4 star rating standing alone, all of them together get the mark because of the extraordinary amount of insight they provide about Silverberg's world.	2004-01-13
US	36593828	R1BFIWVCZ3Y3JX	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Fails to do honor to the true blue nowhere.	The characters in this one make for a pretty exciting story, but I was hoping for something more based on the true Blue Nowhere.  This is your typical thriller murder mystery novel with a few high-tech terms thrown in there every now and again.  To me it was thoroughly disappointing.  And the story was kinda rediculous, especially towards the end of the book.	2004-01-06
US	36593828	R5SKH3HE85LPC	0812548248	43827686	The Death of Chaos (Saga of Recluce, Book 5)	Books	5	0	3	N	Y	The best book of the series!! (so far)	In the Death of Chaos, the story of Lerris, Justen, Krystal, Tamra and the other exiles of recluce comes full circle.  The story line was great, with lots of awesome battle scenes and crazy magic preformed by black, white, and gray wizards.  The story culminates with Hamor attacking Candar and Recluce with a massive fleet of battleships and cannon.<br />Not only the story line makes this the best book in the series thus far.  The characters are lovable and believable, while at the same time completely badass.  The dialect and the relationships between characters in this book are very well thought out and realistic.  The one thing that I thought Modesitt could use a little work on is his obsession with minute details, some of which don't really need to be included.  I mean, he kinda turns a long story into an even longer book by included lots of information that isn't really pertinant to the storyline.	2003-12-23
US	36593828	R2US4CH269HBE9	0312867018	950879616	The Fallon Legacy	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The best of the trilogy	In the Fallon Legacy, the story concentrates mostly on James Fallon, Robert Fallon's long lost son.  The story takes you through James' adventures in the Texas frontier.  Amidst much excitment and adventure, Robert Jordan is able to provide the reader with an extraordinary amount of history and culture from the Mexico/Texas region.  The characters in this book are awesome.  Some of the most loveable and hateable people I have ever read about.  The Fourrier family continues to haunt the Fallons all the way up to the last chapter of the trilogy, but the Fallons are once again able to persevere, although with some heart-wrenching losses.<br />.<br />While the adventure and romance of this novel were very entertaining and fun to read, the best thing about the book, and indeed the whole trilogy, is the fresh perspective that it provides on the history and the culture of America 200 years ago.  Books like this help to preserve our heritage.	2003-11-26
US	36593828	R1NZUI24XM5NCM	0061054879	530664710	Lord Valentine's Castle (Majipoor Cycle)	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Could have been a lot better	The extremely fascinating world of Majipoor is introduced in this novel.  There are lots of great things about this book, but it doesn't really live up to its potential.  While the characters, plot, dialogue, and imagery are all top rate, there is a serious lack of action and suspense.  The book is very predictable (from the first chapter you'd be able to guess at most everything that happens in the rest of the book). I actually would have given this book three stars if not for the last couple of chapters, which contained some good action and threw in an unexpected (but welcome) twist.<br />The story takes you through Valentine's journey to take back his castle from a usurper.  While there are a couple of times during the journey when he is challenged in some way or another, he is able to coast through most of his journey without too much adversity.  While the story had all the elements of a truly epic adventure, Silverberg dissapoints by failing to give his character more than a small challenge every now and than.  (There couldn't have been more than 2 battle scenes the entire book, and even those weren't very suspenseful).  For the most part, Valentine and his friends have a free ride along their journey.  They are always able to find everything they need and luck stays with them the entire way.  Overall, this book was disapointing because it just didn't live up to its potential.	2003-11-24
US	36593828	RLL9T2BCOVTH	0446523429	721815612	Last Refuge of Scoundrels: A Revolutionary Novel	Books	3	2	5	N	N	HAHA, funny , but accurate??	Paul Lussier does a good job of bringing the Founding Fathers down from their glorious pedestal by portraying them as really despicable and cowardly men.  I feel that he assuredly overexagerates much of his degrading descriptions.  (I'm sure Ben Franklin wasn't near as bad as he seems from this book, but even Hancock and the Adams cousins must have been better than the slimeballs portrayed here).<br />While this book was fun to read and provides a very different perspective on the American Revolution, at least from a political perspective, its also confusing in that you don't really know what to take seriously and what is purely fiction.  I'd say most of it is purely fiction (at least I hope so).  The main story is told from the perspective of a young man who finds himself fighting for a revolution (that he doesn't care about) and in love with a woman (who is also a whore).  The book takes you through all that happens to this guy and at the same time progresses through key occurances of the Revolution.  Along the way, the Founding Fathers are portrayed as complete bufoons with no interest except their own petty wants.  The British are made to look like they never really knew what was going on and the F. Fathers to incite a Revolution without ever really meaining to (which may very well be true?).  I mean, I'm sure that the people of the time may not be as great as they are made out to be in middle school textbooks, but this book takes it a little (or a lot) over the top.<br />This book was entertaining but not very informative about the true happenings of the American Revolution.	2003-10-29
US	36593828	R2VSZVSH7BT23E	0785812873	877921776	Phantom Army of the Civil War and Other Southern Ghost Stories	Books	1	4	7	N	N	What a dissapointment!!	I really don't know what kind of evil spirit must have possessed me in order for me to purchase and read this book!!  I guess I was hoping for some kind of usolved mystery of the Civil War (like a phantom army that fought a battle and dissapeared or something), but I was completely disappointed.<br />The cover of the book was designed for just the purpose it accomplished with me:  to fool people into thinking that the book would talk about some kind of Civil War story.  However,it delivers nothing of the kind.  The story about the phantom army is all of five pages (short ones) and really doesn't have anyting to to with the Civil War.  The rest of the book is comprised of poorly written and almost certainly fictitious stories of haunts in the South.<br />Trust me, this book isn't worth your time.  There are much better ghost stories out there.	2003-10-22
US	36593828	R2SHK2PJ5NSS0Z	0312855699	192302546	The Order War (The Saga of Recluce)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Another good book, but a step down from the previous two	This book brings the Rucluce Saga full circle with the introduction of Justen the Gray and the destruction of Fairhaven.  I was really excited about this story because I thought that those two topics could be really great.  However, I was somewhat dissapointed in many aspects of this book.  I don't really know what it was, but I just wasn't able to get into this book as much as I did the last couple.  Much of the book seemed to drag on with very little being accomplished, and while the action was thrilling (with Justen and Gunnar whipping the Whites, and the Whites whipping innocent people in turn) it was few and far between.  I think more could have been done with the druids (I don't feel like the reader really learns much about them) and with the Black Devil (which just supplied transport for Justen to get to Fairhaven) and what was with the metal rods that Justen used to kill those last Whites??<br />Look, this is a good book that fits nicely into the saga, but it just didn't live up to what I was expecting.  I still look forward to the next book, in which the story returns to Lerris.	2003-10-22
US	36593828	R35LKU2CTQL6M5	0399215492	368646193	Mossflower (Redwall)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Another excellent book for any age	I'm not kidding, this book is really good! I don't care how old you are, I believe you'll enjoy this one.  Easy to read, flows very smoothly the entire time,  loveable characters, vivid scenery, and cowardly villians.  I really don't know how they can say give this book a reading age of 9-12.. That almost made me not want to read it, but I'm sure glad that I did and look forward to reading the next one.<br />My favorite part of the book?  It'd be hard to say, but I'd have to go with the battle between Martin and Queen Tsarmina.  There were lots of other great scenes too though.  One question I have is why didn't Gingivere ever help in the fight against his evil sister??  He would have been a great help in the fighting besides being able to carry Abbess Germaine quickly back to the injured Martin. I guess he's just a pussycat though.<br />I highly reccomend this book along with Redwall.  To anyone.	2003-10-08
US	36593828	R27L1N0SCVJJW0	088038901X	924065681	The Halfling's Gem (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A great finish for a fantastic trilogy	In the last book of the trilogy, the adventurers keep up their constant stream of crazily difficult scenarios but once again come out on top of their foes.  Maybe it was just me getting kinda tired of the same story, but I thought that this last book of the three wasn't as good as the first two.  (That's where the four stars, instead of five, comes from)...  In some places the book almost seemed rushed, as if Salvatore was looking forward to finishing the story, but overall the book was very good and exciting.  The adventures just didn't quite match up to the scale of the other books (Bruenor's fight with Shimmergloom), but the presence of bad-ass weapons (Catie-Brie's bow and Drizzit's two scimitars) was cool.<br />While the adventures of this book were somewhat weaker than in the others, they are by no means weak by any standards.  The pirate ship attack, fighting the ratmen in the sewers, Wulfgar's fight with the Hydra, and of course Drizzit's and Entreri's showdown..  The book ended on a wonderful note with Regis (temporarily) taking over the theives guild and Bruenor taking his place as the King of Mithral Hall and Wulfgar + Catie-Bire/Drizzit + Lady Alustriel hooking up.<br />I look forward to reading more of Salvatore's books featuring Drizzit Do'Urden.	2003-09-30
US	36593828	R24XWF20H4K0LC	0765300265	103095266	The Pillars of Creation (Sword of Truth)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	A wonderful book providing a new perspective	I thought that this book was great!  Better in fact than books 3-6 of the series.  It was nice to get a relief form hearing about how much Richard and Kahlan love each other, yet can't be together for some off the wall reason.  The Pillars of Creation introduced awesome characters in Jenssen and Oba, and I thought that the way the whole book was told through their perspectives was new and interesting.<br />I can't believe people are giving this book such horrible reviews, I mean, you can't tell me that this book wasn't fun to read. Plenty of action, lots of emotion, loveable/hateable characters, and new vivid scenery.  The fight at the Confessor's Palace, where Zedd and Adie single-handedly took out nearly all of Jagang's army, was great.  Oba's mad thought process was terifically amusing and the greusome details of his many murders was right up my alley. (I especially liked the shovel to his mother's head).<br />Anyway, I think that this was one of Goodkind's best yet, deserves fives stars all the way.	2003-09-25
US	36593828	R3R2HVBN1BA8EP	088038672X	12144424	Streams of Silver (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another thriller from Salvatore!	This book may even be better than the first one, and that's saying a lot.  What really put it a notch ahead was the wonderful array of foes that the heroes had to deal with.  Artemis Entreri has to be one of the coolest evil dudes I've come across, and Bok the golem (who could pound through castle walls with his bare fists) put vivid images in my head.  Don't forget about Dendybar the Mottled, the Trollmoors, the Druegar, the Shadow Hounds, and especially Shimmergloom, a shadow dragon.<br />This book got Regis and Cattie-Brie more involved too, and I must say that Cattie-Brie kicked some serious tale!  The best part of the book has to be the last fight against Shimmergloom.  Bruenor is freaking nuts, but he sure put a hurting on the beast.  While the book ends in a pretty desparate situation, with Bruenor assumed to be dead, and Artemis making off with Regis and Drizzit's shadow cat, a great adventure is promised for the next one.  I look forward to it greatly.	2003-09-12
US	36593828	R336Q4ITAYL7EY	0060926317	318377142	Mutant Message Down Under	Books	3	4	12	N	N	A really good message for people to hear.	I give this book a lower rating because of the poor writing it contains.  I do reccomend the book because it will give most people a very different perspective on a lot of things in our world.  I am glad that I read it.<br />This book tells a very sad tale about a primitive culture that is close to being lost from this planet with very little to record its existence.  They feel that modern society has caused their downfall (which it may have in many ways) and that there is no longer a place for them in this world.  While this society is very primitive when compared to our standards, I believe that there is a lot that we could learn from their way of life.<br />I think that this book brings up very important issues dealing with society today.  While I am not a &quot;hippy&quot; or much of an environmentalist, I do believe that people have very screwy perception of what life is all about and what will bring them happiness.  I feel that society has fallen away from spirituality and from concern for nature that we possessed in the past.  I think that the Abos belief in life and in living in nature actually makes good sense.  I believe that people would be much happier living among nature, and allowing nature to provide for us than we would competing among ourselves and restricting our lives to cities and highways.<br />I am not sure how realistic it is for me to hope for a change in society that would transform it so drastically from what it currently is.  However, I do think that people REALLY need to seriously consider the consequences that our actions may have on the environment and life in the future.	2003-09-03
US	36593828	RJT362MMY6G7Q	0880385359	6406789	The Crystal Shard (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Completely took me by surprise	After reading The Cleric Quintet, I wasn't really expecting much form this book.  Man was I surprised to find one of the best fantasy books I've ever read!!<br />This is a classic fantasy in the way of rediculously strong heroes fighting bumbling orcs and goblins, but it was much more too.  Drizzit, Wulfgar, Bruenor, and Regis are some of the greatest characters I've come across, rivaling the likes of the Dragonlance heroes (which is saying a lot).  Drizzit especially stands out as being especially cool.  It would be hard to think of a champion with better (and as believalbe) qualities than him.  He's confident enough (and he should be) to take on giants, dragons, demons, and powerful wizards.  And hardly relied on luck at all!  Throughout this book the good guys kicked a** again and again, leaving the reader with a great feeling of victory!<br />This book was absolutelty wonderful.  I reccomend it for anyone who enjoys a good fantasy, no matter what age they are.  Salvatore came a long way from when he wrote the Cleric Quintet.  I give it four thumbs up.	2003-08-29
US	36593828	R2S1S6QD9N8S1M	0812567609	754680742	The Fallon Pride (Fallon series)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A good read, but not quite as good as The Fallon Blood.	After reading The Fallon Blood (which I found to be excellent) I had high hopes for The Fallon Pride.  Unfortunately I was a bit dissapointed.  This book just didn't grab my attention in quite the same way the first book.  This is strange because I actually found the characters in this book to be even better than in the first book.  Particularly Miller, Kemal, and Robert.  Also though, Catherine was one of the most enjoyable characters to hate that I've ever encountered.  I think a little more should have been included in some secondary characters, such as Tomas Martin, Karl Holtz, and Jasper Trask, but I guess you can't always include EVERYTHING you want in a novel.<br />One aspect of the book which I found really irritating was the complete idiocy of every other American in the book besides Robert.  Especially concerning the American politicians and generals.  Whereas the first Fallon book gave me valuable insights into the begginings of our country and inspired my pride of America, this book had the opposite effect.  While there was still a good amount of history, I never felt like I really knew what was going on in the country except for the Fallons' personal drama.<br />Overall, I think that 4 stars is a generous rating for this book, and maintain that the first of the series is much better.  While the Fallon Blood was educational and interesting, the Fallon Pride was dramatic and pointless.	2003-08-25
US	36593828	R3W1CIUZYQ403A	0345440773	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A good book even if Leigh Eddings wrote the whole thing.	In the Redemtion of Althalus it seems obvious that Leigh Eddings was in charge of most (if not all) of the work. Nonetheless, I still think that this was a wonderful book.  While it does contain a lot of repetition, and seems like it would be an easy story for a small child to follow, the characters and the plot kept me captivated.  Wonderful ideas such as Everywhere and Everywhen showed some imagination and the classic fight between good and evil never fails to be entertaining.<br />While I would not classify this book on the same level as David Eddings' earlier books (mainly the Belgariad and Molloreon) it is still a great read.  I reccomend it for everyone, but if you have a child and are looking for a good book to read to them, pick this one.  It would be perfect.	2003-08-14
US	36593828	R1MEM79R0CVTW	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Not a good book to force kids to read.	This has to be one of the most depresing books I have ever read.  Basically nothing good happens the entire time and the main character has some serious head problems..  While this book might provide an interesting look into the thought patterns of an adolescent male, I do not see why it is hailed as a classic by our literary society.<br />The best thing I found about the book was that it was short.  If I had been forced into spending much more time on this piece, I do not think I would have finished it.  If high school teachers want to influence kids to enjoy reading, there are much better books than this one (Ender's Game, The Belgariad, to name a couple).  I think a major reason that lots of young people are convinced that they hate reading is because they were forced into reading &quot;intellectual&quot; books like this one in school.  A bad practice I say.	2003-08-14
US	36593828	R237MHSMYPQHAN	044651862X	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Gives you something to think about.	I just have one question for Jame Redfield -- How much of this book is just fiction that you made up, and how much of it do you really beleive??<br />In the Celestine Prophecy, Redfield takes you through an adventure that seems very realistic except for the extraordinary spiritual revelations and experiences of the main character.  The book basically brings the reader through a series of spiritual insights (nine of them in nine chapters) that are meant to cause a spiritual evolutionary leap for humankind.  While many of these insights ring true (such as the preoccupation people have with work, and the fight over energy between people), some of them are really long shots (such as the final insight, in which people become invisible except to others who have also achieved complete connection witht he universe).<br />I would like to think that Redfield was inspired to write this book by some kind of higher power, and there might actually be some kind of divine future for the human race on this world (a world in which we would all live alongside nature, in huge forests, with all of our needs met by automated machines, and no need to work), but I really have a hard time in believing that such is the case.  I do think that people would benefit by becoming more connected with nature, and with the energy of others.  And I do think that the future that we are headed for right now will produce something far worse that what Redfield predicts in this book.<br />I strongly reccomend this book for everyone to read.  It is not some kind of weird new age book with a bunch of complex and hard to understand ideals of a cult leader.  It is an entertaining adventure novel that rings true in many ways and might give everyone something to think about in their day to day lives.  However, I do caution people who might take it a bit too seriously (I personally know some of these people).  It is a unique story, but it is only a story.<br />Ahh.. go read it for yourself!	2003-08-11
US	36593828	R26KKUZ6HIS9F7	0312855702	551495323	The Magic Engineer	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Modesitt's best yet!!	By reading Modesitt's books in sequential order, the improvement from one book to the next has been obvious to me.<br />*Note that I have only read the first three books so far, and I know that it would be hard to keep improving throughout the series*<br /><br />In The Magic Engineer, Modesitt has produced a remarkable book which turned out to be completely unique in many ways.  While it began almost the exact same way as The Magic of Recluce, with a young man being exiled for doubting the perfection of Order to go out into Candar and become a man, the book took on a much more mature tone once Dorrin got settled in as an apprentice blacksmith in Spidlar.  The imagery in this book was much better than in the past two, and the limited use of sound effects was also an improvement.  With such wonderful characters as Brede, Kadara, and Leidral (who are much easier to picture and to keep track of than the secondary characters in the other novels) Modesitt brings you in to a marvelous world in which you can feel close to those you are reading about.  (Don't tell me that you didn't get upset when Dorrin had to leave behind Meriwhen, who was only a horse!)  Also, with the wonderful inventions of Dorrin, which were very well described so as to be easily pictured by the reader, Modesitt almost has the reader feel proud of some accomplishment.  I especially liked the weapons Dorrin forged for Brede.  Completely slaughtered the stinking Whites!  It was awesome.<br />I would definetly rank this book as Modesitt's best work so far and look forward to reading some more of his novels.	2003-08-05
US	36593828	R1ZMHUZBP9YVPH	0312859732	642033732	The Fallon Blood	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A great read, and very informative about the American Rev.	Michael Fallon, in the Fallon Blood, is one of the most interesting and believable characters I have found.  This book covers his trials and his successes over an extended period of time that covers the American Revolution.  I found the book to be very exciting and dramatic, while at the same time historically accurate and educational.  I would reccomend this book to anyone.  A very enjoyable read.  What is Robert Jordan's real name??	2003-07-25
US	36593828	R1T9RU997CP6Q3	0066210151	409576673	The Book of Shadows: A Novel	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Talk about leaving me hanging!!	An excellent plot and a very interesting idea, but it kinda leaves you hanging.  The characters and the mystery of this book were some of the best that I have encountered.  However, throughout the book, a lot of time was spent on describing events of the past and experiences of others, while leaving the main character doing exciting things such as reading other books, ect.  While the book was very enjoyable, and I would even recommend it to my friends, I really wanted something more from it.  Some great characters (Sebastiana, Asmodei) were introduced and the reader was sort of teased by the prospect of getting to know them better. (which you never will).  The author never went into detail about why a few things happened (such as Asmodei trying to kill the girl, and what Sebastiana did in retaliation) and I really felt like I was left in the dark about a lot of details that I would have enjoyed reading about.  Also, the book ended rather suddendly with the main character just about to embark on a wonderful sounding adventure which seems like it would have been more exciting than the rest of the book.  What seemed to be a secondary plot (freeing Madeleine's soul) turns out to be the whole story and nothing as exciting as I would have liked (and expected) ever really happened.  Maybe I'm too critical but I think three stars is a generous rating.	2003-07-24
US	36593828	R1R28UFA12RYYU	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	An excellent read for all ages	The first book in Jacques' series surprised me with its excellent imagery and relatively mature message.  Although the writing style is simple and easy to read, this is not really a kids book.  Although it is listed as being for ages 9-12, I  believe that this book would be enjoyable (even exciting) for people of any age.  I'm 22 and plan on reading the next (Mossflower).  So, if you're contemplating reading this book, I strongly reccomend it and you shouldn't worry about it being below your reading level.  It is an extremely enjoyable book from start to finish.	2003-07-14
US	36593828	R2QNV02DQA16PI	0812519671	45577249	The Towers of the Sunset (Recluce series, Book 2)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Much better than book 1	This book brought up my opinion of Modesitt a lot. It was much more enjoyable when written in second person and with fewer hard-to-make sound effects. The overall plot of the book was great, introducing the beginnings of Recluce as a Black wizard isle. While the evil characters could really have been developed to a greater extent, and some of the more exciting scenes seemed a little hurried, I truly enjoyed this read and am looking foward to reading the rest of LE's books.<br />P.S.  If anyone has a hardback copy of this book, I'd really like to negotiate for it.	2003-06-26
