US	36632284	R30IHOAA43T3RH	0140187723	762099645	Martin Eden (Penguin American Library)	Books	5	9	14	N	N	&quot;Realistic Idealism&quot;	Jack London, a writer, journalist, adventurer; a tough man and a hopeless romantic. Although he is primarily known for his stories of adventure dealing with the Gold Rush, the Wild West and North, and of course for his marvelous novels with animals rather than people at the center of attention - he was also a great writer in many other respects, his &quot;Martin Eden&quot; being the best example. Slightly autobiographical, &quot;Martin Eden&quot; remains the single grand achievement of Jack London, one of the saddest books ever written, which made me notice that although most books end well, it's not always the case. How I wished the ending was different! And then I realized that some stories simply cannot end well, just like in real life events are more apt to destroy us rather than strengthen us, not to mention the fact that happy ends seem as real as fairies. Many people read books to escape from reality, to find that one place in the world where things turn out how we wish them to turn out. While I cannot deny this inherent human need, and I myself am not free from such wishful thinking, I seem to need brutal realism as much as I need consolation, among other things. &quot;Martin Eden&quot; shook me terribly when I was just a young moose, and since then I have read this novel several times, including the original English version, and it firmly remains among my favorites.<br />Realistic this novel is, as are many books dating from that period, where the XIX century trends were still firmly instituted in the imagination of the turn-of-the-century generation, despite numerous efforts to revolutionize literature undertaken at about that time. Published in 1909, &quot;Martin Eden&quot; offers a wide array of topics and themes, all convoluted in a compelling, classical narrative. Firmly set in the aforementioned realism, depicting the society with brutal, unforgiving eye of the commentator, at the same time the novel is an apotheosis of idealism, as romantic, naive and detached as any other idealism out there. A young man serves at the sea, and at one point he meets a young lady from the &quot;upper middle class&quot;. In time, their relationship deteriorates from brute force attraction based on instinct, from cheerfulness and spontaneity to a grave series of misunderstandings based on the divergence of expectations one holds with respect to another, the more they know each other, the more so, to finally loathe in their lover what attracted them in the first place. &quot;Martin Eden&quot; is one of the most beautiful and touching love stories ever written, the more so because of its frankness which never borders on postmodern exhibitionism which plagued literature of the XX century.<br />&quot;Martin Eden&quot; served London as a tool of social commentary, and thusly he expressed his disappointment and disapproval for the social class divisions, and as many before and after him, painted the bourgeois black with a fervor worth of any young radical. Nevertheless, as much as this sensitive socialism dated since then, it's a pleasure to read compared to what goes for literature almost a hundred years later, the journalistic socrealism of ideologues who imagine that they are writers. More generally, it's a sad fact that the XIX century essentially ended in 1914 with the outburst of the World War I, in all dimensions, including literature. &quot;Martin Eden&quot; thus may be considered as the last breath of the good old times that are never going to return.	2002-05-31
US	36632284	R1XULGT7GMJ9NL	081170355X	705149199	Captain Marryat: Seaman, Writer, and Adventurer	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Dreadfully incomplete	Every biography, if not of the encyclopedic type, has some profile, an outline of goals the author wants to reach. Often it is necessary to limit the scope of work, because there are other vast volumes on topic already written, and at the same time the topic allows for specialization. Unfortunately, the book by Tom Pocock does not venture in any kind of specialization, and instead, on less than 200 pages it attempts to present a uniform portrait of Captain Frederick Marryat. As the title suggests, an attempt is made to cover his literary heritage, his enormous seafaring experience, his political and military engagement, and of course worldwide travels. My disappointment is unbounded, really, and let me argue why this is the case. <br />To start with the most serious source of incompleteness of this volume, let me say that it does not offer any insight into the literary heritage of Captain Marryat whatsoever. From time to time, the author mentions that at this or that point in Marryat's life he was writing, published, or tried to publish this or that novel or a diary. Merely a line or two at most is devoted to the subject. For all it is worth, the whole content on literature is limited to one page in total. At the end of the book there is a list of the books written by this ingenious man. Pocock does not add anything worth writing home about about these books. I can't doubt that he read them, but if he did, he didn't show it. And this in the light of the fact that Marryat was the most popular writer in Europe of the 1830s! Marryat influenced many noble authors, starting with Melville and Conrad-Korzeniowski and ending with contemporary nautical fiction writers like Pat O'Brien, not to mention his indirect influence on anyone who has tried his pen in the field of adventure, maritime or not. Marryat and Dickens were great friends who supported and consulted each other in the time their lives overlapped, and the biographer merely focuses on the sociopolitical aspect ofthis friendship, as if he was not aware of profound literary influences which flowed both ways, and spread like an eagle over the whole Continent of writers, not to mention America. I hoped, in vain, to learn more than I had known beforehand about the connections between writers, Melville, Verne and Conrad-Korzeniowski in particular; I hoped to receive at least minimal treatment and analysis of the particular works of Marryat. I got none. The man basically gave birth to nautical fiction as we know it today, he created several immortal literary archetypes, he had a unique perspective of a naval officer, a writer and a brilliant social observer, and his diaries from travels to America and Canada deserved analysis &quot;deeper&quot; than just a brief quote or two. He wrote about children, about animals, and finally, in his literature of adventure as it was, he incorporated a wide array of themes, ranging from horror, mythology and magic to heavyweight topics of religion, the Holy Inquisition, warfare, exploration and competition. The potential reader of this volume should give up any such hopes. This book offers nothing of the kind. <br />Apart from writing, Marryat was a politically and socially active man, and even here the book fails, despite some coherent efforts on part of the author. In a dry style of a scribble, the biographer merely notes the events, as they came, only occasionally venturing into some analysis of what happened or did not happen and why. The biographer wrote other volumes, including books on Nelson, and I couldn't get rid of the impression that in the case of this book he simply recycled an old formula, and tried to fit an Alpha and Omega of a man like Marryat into a narrowly defined scheme. This couldn't have worked, and it didn't. Complete chunks of Marryat's lifetime were ignored in this way, while others were overblown out of proportion. Indeed, decency is a lost art on the part of the biographer, as the following fact indicates in light ofwhat I have written about so far and what I chose to be silent about out of empathy. In at least two instances, if I remember well, Tom Pocock writes a small essay on the fact that one of his own ancestors knew Marryat, and desperately tries to input some meaning into the oh-so-distant relationship between the two men. Marryat, if asked, wouldn't remember the ancestor in question, but we are show otherwise. This is simply scandalous. To ignore half of Marryat's life in order to make space for this? Excuse me? This biography is outrageous, and although if you know nothing on the subject, it will be of some use, dishonest as it is, at the same time it is a complete waste of money otherwise.	2002-05-26
US	36632284	R34F8U3WZVHY47	0399148353	890709141	Leaving Katya	Books	5	19	22	N	N	"Russian: more of a diagnosis than a nationality"	I must offer my congratulations to Paul Greenberg, who had a good material for a novel, and persevered through the years to complete its writing. The conception of a personal novel, \\"Leaving Katya\\", undoubtedly must have been a daunting task, a catharsis for the author, a fact willingly admitted by the author himself. That said, the novel is quite a surprise for a Slavic reader with American experiences like myself. The source of the surprise is that Paul Greenberg managed to nail quite a few essential barriers that divide the Russians from the Americans, or the Slavs from the Anglo-Saxons, as we may venture to say without a substantial loss of generality. At one point, late in the novel, the protagonist confesses that to take Russia out of him is as possible as changing his (weak) character. \\"Leaving Katya\\" is a story about two incompatible people who are thrust upon each other by the cruel hand of Fate. Thus begins the long-standing Daniel's infatuation with Mother Russia, aroused by his personal experiences with his newlywed Yekaterina Konstantinova, but not surprisingly, strengthened and firmly instituted or, to apply a better phrase, institutionalized by his numerous visits to the falling Soviet Union and then Russian Federation. <br />Short as this novel is, it merely skims portions of the surface of the complex relationship between Russian émigrés and America, American impressions of Russia, Russian impressions of America, and the idiosyncrasy of both lands. Nevertheless, since no deep analysis seems to have been the aim of the author, one cannot hold this fact against him and his novel. The modest goal of \\"Leaving Katya\\" is to provide a personal insight into the inevitable clash of cultures. The sparks must fly all around when a conscientious member of a nation with an over thousand years long history is faced with the melting, culture-less pot of America, and vice versa, the identity-less member of the blandly uncharacteristic American mass is faced withthe strength of the Russian nationality and an enormous cultural and behavioral burden it necessarily carries with itself. The author bitterly notes the feeling of inadequacy he feels in such circumstances, broods over his jealousy and his inferiority complex. On the other hand, he never gives up, and despite the stone of awareness roped to his neck, he fights for what he considers his, for whom he considers his, Katya, as it were. I smiled to myself when initially Daniel mused in his daydreams; how grand it would be to join the cultures, to enrich the forthcoming generation with the wealth of cultural heritage from both lands, to only wake up with a hand in a night pot afterwards, when a realization dawns on him that it is simply not possible. With a cultural heritage as strong and as unique as Russian, you cannot count on any kind of its reconciliation with its antithesis, the American uniformized society consisting of disconnected individuals with no particular identity. Either one side melts into the other, or vice versa. Only when we allow one flower to die, the other may bloom. Such is the inescapable fate, this is the truth to be faced, one which cannot be avoided. <br />On the other hand, Greenberg makes a series of brilliant per-exemplum observations on how both lifestyles of the protagonists, for lack of a better word-and by extension, the cultures they come from-fail to preserve what is most crucial, necessary for the survival of the nation - the family, the bastion of identity. The sad difference is that the Eastern family was mangled and vandalized by the system, while the Western family just evaporated in a self-selective natural process of decay. \\"Leaving Katya\\", while a bit too brief and underdeveloped in some aspects, is brutally close to the truth when it comes to the analysis of the cultural differences. As such, it might be of interest for people who are fond of their critical outlook on their own society, whichever it might be, but also for people whose fate resembled Katya's or Daniel's to a smaller or larger extent. Like myself.	2002-05-23
US	36632284	R1GG91Z452JSLJ	0670882305	938794795	James Joyce (Penguin Lives Series)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A beautiful homage to the artist by the artist	Having read this small volume, I believe that I have read one of the most beautiful books ever written. I have read numerous biographies in my life, from laborious, super-detailed massive volumes, the doorstops, through quickly written popular biographies, to bare sketches, cynical or amusing interpretative biographies, but never have I read a real work of art. \\"James Joyce\\" by Edna O'Brien is a homage to the artist by the artist, and it set me on my knees in every aspect. Edna has always adored Joyce, but also understood him both as an artist, and as a human being, the understanding even more important, because never was there a writer more misunderstood and hated, alive or postmortem, than poor James Joyce. <br />\\"The he [the critic] posed a question. Had Joyce a future? The answer was no. As poet and novelist Joyce would always fail. Joyce's future is assured. His shade haunts every great writer who has followed him. The essays, treatises, books and seminars abound, but more tellingly, and perhaps more viscerally he is still hated.\\" p.170<br />During Joyce's lifetime, it was natural that his art of vision stirred the literary circles, for never had there been a daring experimentation and a literary revolutionary like James Joyce. It was even more natural that the public loathed the writer, for he dared to paint life as he saw it, as he personally experienced it, never looking back to the prevailing code of morals, be it Irish Catholic, prudish middle-class English, or even more prudish Puritan American; or any other code for that matter! For Joyce, there was no barrier he would not cross, no sacrifice he wouldn't make to unravel his vision. A sad fact is that his native beloved Dublin loathed him perhaps the most, unable to see apotheosis of his country in his presumably blasphemous and anti-Irish stories and novels. Disenchanted, Joyce turned his back on Ireland, and never came back. From the very start to the very end, Joyce was refused publication, was ridiculed, slandered and humiliated. <br />\\"That Joyce has risen above so much misunderstanding is surely a testament to those wounded eyes and the Holy Ghost in that ink bottle. The battle as to who owns James Joyce infiltrates many a Joycean occasion, a claim so proprietary and absurd that it deserves no answer. Genius is singular and Beckett was indeed right when he said that the artist who stakes his life is on his own.\\" p. 171<br />And this kind of attitude is still prevalent at the turn of the century, decades after the death of the poor author of just a handful of books. In decades that passed since his death, all literary forms were tried, all holy cows contested many a time, new forms of expression invented, and forgotten, nothing really shocking a reader anymore, and yet it's still Joyce who is a symbol of inarticulate, a symbol of rebellion and bad taste, especially for those who have never read a single work by this author. If you ask whether his books were controversial, the answer is yes, whether his books were hard to understand, the answer again is yes. All this does not justify all of attacks the author had had to endure, even after his death, miserable as it was. His fiction is not for everyone, and I myself have turned down one of his novels, having miserably failed with my language. But it never occurred to me to try to burn the author on the righteous stake of his lack of appropriateness. Whether or not I, as a reader, agree with the opinion that Joyce was a genius is secondary. I have read his works, and I do appreciate the challenge, and the fact that he, the artist, widened my horizons, augmented my perception, because he made me think, think hard and analyze. Ultimately, I believe that it is a general, widely applicable regularity, a universal phenomenon; easy books we like to read, they slip through the larynx of our neural network like honey sled down the Pooh's mouth, and sometimes they leave a trace, a shred of action, a character or two, merely a silhouette, but few novels make us think, and if we are willing, stand up to the challenge of allowing the author superimpose his vision over ours, detract the train of conventional thought we are naturally used to employ, prickle our thinking so that we find ourselves in the depths of dark, blue water, with no direction prevalent or dominant, devoid of any holds of reality, those crutches our mind uses for identification and analysis. To let ourselves go with the stream of his fiction is to let ourselves experience an afterlife, where the only stronghold is our imagination, and ears willing to listen to the melody of the artist's voice. That we emerge from this dream slightly wounded, a bit scared, mangled over, directionless and sometimes either delighted, or depressed and vulgarized? Then, if we do come back, we may safely re-employ our senses and try to comment on the commentable, positive or negative, what does it matter? It's the experience that is of the ultimate value, the unforgettable fire of literary expedition into the hybrid conjunction of our own mind, and the artist's. I like to think that my mind is unique enough to produce an equally unique mixture of his thoughts, and my own. Whether or not I liked what I read, is irrelevant. <br />Edna O'Brien diverged completely from the usual way biographies are written, and God bless her for that. Rarely pieces of trivia or data are mentioned, this book bursts in seams with life, a real life of James Joyce, focused on the man himself, and his art, above all else. A small book, a poem in prose, a beautiful elegy, and ode and a sonnet, an ambitious, delicate work I will keep rereading to the end of my life. I love you, Edna.	2002-05-23
US	36632284	R3CO1XWSQ39T6A	1558215492	184757711	Annapurna	Books	5	4	6	N	N	All that was left was pain and disillusionment	Before the outburst of World War II, there were many expeditions to the highest mountains, and with one exception, none of them ever succeeded at its goal, namely: to conquer the 8000 metre summit for the first time in history. However, in 1999 there was proof enough for alpinists that Chomolungma (also known as Mount Everest) was indeed climbed by two British alpinists, Mallory and Irvine. It's not a court proof, but proof enough just the same. These recent discoveries shed a different light on the events right after the war, when Nepal opened its borders for foreigners, and expeditions attacked the gigantic summits, one by one. Contrary to style adopted in prewar times, the new expeditions mostly used the siege methods, when alpinists used the labor of others, often Sherpas, to climb the mountain. Even if some of them succeeded, a purist wouldn't say that it was them who climbed the mountain. Ever since there is a controversy as to whether a siege method can be counted as an ascent at all. In 1950, the French expedition finally succeeded with Annapurna, one of the smallest eight-thousanders. Combining the siege method with the classic alpine style, the expedition's four climber core successfully attempted the ascent of the summit. For personal reasons, the strongest pair of climbers, Lachenal and Terray - was separated, and thus two light teams were formed out of the core of four climbers. Due to inadequate clothing and severe conditions during the ascent, the first team suffered extreme frostbite, and managed to descend with life only due to the support of Terray's second team, who thus wasn't given the chance to ascend. There were many unpleasant affairs hidden under the surface during the French 1950 expedition, and to gather the best reckoning of the situation, it's best to reach to the original sources, only two of which are available in English, namely this book, Annapurna by Maurice Herzog, and Conquistadors of the Useless by the friendly bear Lionel Terray. Before you try to form any opinions on what really happened, and why, during the 1950 expedition, do read both books. Needless to say, there are some other attempts to describe the expedition, some written by contemporary journalists with a sorry premise with its tabloid roots. Make no mistake, if you are looking for sensation, you should think twice. This is no area for sensation. Unfortunately, the mob is interested in the highest mountains because of two elements only. One: the sport and competition, a sorry and misguided premise if there ever was one, and two: the death toll. Both motivations repel the alpinists with any moral code. The sad fact is that Herzog's book, excellent in many dimensions, attracts mass readership because of the bone-chilling action and intense suffering afterwards, whereas Terray's memoir is left in obscurity because it contains none such, mostly. Fortunately, it's not the case everywhere, and in the mother country of both writers, as much as in the rest of Continental Europe, we know better, and give credit when it's due. <br />While it will always remain uncertain whether or not Lachenal and Herzog were the first men to climb the eight thousander, or whether or not the men who deserve that distinction were Mallory and Irvine · it's I think best to give all of them proper credit. Far up in the mountains, climbing has little to do with the life in the lowlands, and the journalist/bailiff attitudes do not apply. We honor all of these men whose achievements represent the essence of manhood, and thus the essence of alpinism. \\"Annapurna\\" is a classic alpine memoir, a must read for all of us who are personally interested in alpinism, or climb for the love of mountains.	2002-05-22
US	36632284	RINOKIGJLRWL3	0452272696	40910924	What I Lived For: A Novel	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Just another brick in the wall - a foreigner's perspective	I read &quot;What I Lived For&quot; in Polish several years ago when it was freshly translated and published in a deluxe hardcover series in Poland. My impressions faded a bit in their freshness since that time, but I still remember what tickled me while reading this novel. Never having been to America beforehand, I tried to form the image of this country based on literature, motion pictures and third-hand information coming from people of my cultural heritage who have been there already. This novel by Joyce Carol Oates helped me form the initial expectations, adding just another brick in the wall of expectations, to borrow a phrase from Roger Waters. Much like the Floydian Wall, that house of cards fell down and disintegrated almost from the very first day of my visit to America, but after several years spent here, I think that if nothing else, Oates's novel is about the only remaining bastion of my old impressions. I still perceive the fictional world of Oates as representative for America, or to be precise, a slice from the overall cake of a picture. Her fiction, though never being pompous or in-your-face-yankee-style patriotic quasi-fiction of the engaged kind, it serves quite well as a door to America, to the anxieties specific to the upstart middle class, an endemic layer of the American society half of the country aspiring to, the newcomer generation in particular, the other half having just outgrown it and moved forward. There is a multitude of possible answers to a trite question what makes America so special, what makes it a magnet attracting people from all over the world. &quot;What I Lived For&quot; is one of these answers, and a compelling one at that. The book starts off with a brutal scene several decades ago, and we are introduced to the life of one &quot;Corky&quot; Corcoran, a son of the relatively poor Irish neighborhoods, whose life will soon turn about to be one long quest in the search for an escape valve from the maze of the labyrinth of hiscomplexes, the inferiority complex with financial grounds being one of the most prominent ones. Corky moves upward, and as soon as he reaches one rung higher in the social ladder, he turns and faces his thus-far perfectly acceptable peers in condescending manner. As soon as he becomes a locally recognized man of moderate power, he decided to reach down to the bottom, and familiarize with the masses. There are few scenes in literature that depict the snobbish artificiality and resulting embarrassment better than many scenes in the second half of &quot;What I Lived For&quot;. Oates looks very critically at the typical new-American upstarts for whom grace and tact are lost art. America attracts people of specific personality; by the laws of nature it is a self-selection process. The worst kind, and the most brilliant kind are attracted to come to that &quot;golden land of opportunity&quot;. And then the second and third generations are not free from their inferiority complex, as this novel illustrates. While it's only one aspect of the American phenomenon, it is not a negligible one, and that is one of the reasons why this particular book is translated and popular in Europe. While the details fade away in time, the overall impression is long-lasting, and should you happen to be more familiar with the specifics this novel is rich with, the more sense it makes. Joyce Carol Oates has written a thought-provoking book that bitterly asks questions few people seem willing to answer.	2002-05-21
US	36632284	R1NDW7DY8VQ8RR	0684843323	156249009	The Complete Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway: The Finca Vigia Edition	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A sea shell with a few small pearls	I never thought I would ever attempt to review Hemingway, but since my feelings about his prose are so ambivalent, I decided to try. \\"Forty Nine Stories\\" was the second volume by Hemingway I read, the first being \\"The Old Man and the Sea\\", which I had to read in the grade school, and did not quite understand at the time. My parents' private library was filled to the brink, and Hemingway and other esteemed American authors have been placed at the front; worn-out copies, tired beyond measure with many readings they had to suffer through. Disappointed with the novella I had to read at school, quite early I started to devour the contents of the aforementioned library, despite my mother's warnings that it might not be something I could handle at such an early age. I don't know, perhaps to prove otherwise, I plunged deep into \\"The Great Gatsby\\" by Scott Fitzgerald and the Forty Nine Stories. The first story in this collection knocked me out, literally. 'The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber' introduced me to the adult literature, along with some other volumes I courageously attempted to read at about 11. No other piece of writing by this author ever matched this first, head-on impact. Even nowadays, when I have read the whole volume of \\"The Complete Stories of Ernest Hemingway\\" both in Polish and in English - twice, I still can't find anything coming ever close to this masterpiece. A married American couple embarks on a safari in Africa, and use the help of a professional hunter. This simple scene serves as a proxy for the overwhelming per-exemplum picture of a convoluted relationship between men and women. That story haunts me to this day. Ever since I wondered why the lady in question behaved as she did, why was all this so complex, and whether I would have to face such a difficult task of satisfying a femme. It seemed tough to me at 11, and even now, almost two decades later, it has a tint of mystery the existence of which I can't deny. I have gone through various stages of forming opinions with respect to this story. I took sides, I claimed a thorough understanding of the situation, to dismiss it clockwise as time passed. A truly beautiful aspect of the whole affair with 'The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber', to me, is that Hemingway nowhere seemed to preach in one direction or another. It takes a genius to write a short story in a plainest of languages, a story which leaves a man wondering all his life about the issues being a part of another man's imagination, a fictional world of no apparent relevance in a day-to-day life. <br />Sometimes his early stories have much in common with shorthand notes made by a traveling journalist, but then it's hard to find an equivalent despite the overwhelming number of traveling journalists who attempt to write now and then. Last, but not least, if you are fond of the romantic outlook on Spain, and are completely foreign to the land and its inhabitants, Papa's stories and novels will be an invaluable resource, though completely fictional. Sometimes, it is better to read about the land than to visit it yourself and burst the bubble of happy euphoria. Trust me, it really is. Papa loved Spain and its people, as is clearly evident in his writings. In \\"The Forty Nine Stories\\", there is a small masterpiece about a boy with a dream. He wants to be a matador. His dream costs him his life. Didn't you cry, having read this story? I did, tough guy that I am. Apart from the first story in this outstanding collection, this one scarred my memory for ever. Still, after all those years, I want to reach out, and prevent the knife from entering the soft insides of the boy's belly. I want to kneel right there, and hold the dying boy, a little man with a little dream. This story reminds me of Hans Christian Andersen, although completely different in style and tone and subject matter. To read a work of art is to achieve a new level of understanding the world, both in an introspective, intuitive way, and in an external, more evident way. <br />Such is Papa Hemingway; your feelings fluctuate, and in time, you develop a special fondness for the author, that cozy, warm attitude reserved for authors whose works influenced your life, had taken over your imagination like the mob had taken over the Bastille. Hemingway is worth coming back to, if you do not let yourself be discouraged at an early stage. Do not take a word for granted, explore Papa yourself, and \\"The Forty Nine Stories\\" is a grand point of departure for a very long journey.<br />A final note: I recommend the Finca Vigia edition, since it contains the original first forty nine stories, along with numerous stories published later, and a grand preface by Scribner himself.	2002-05-20
US	36632284	RJVIEYI9ZMHHB	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	21	24	N	N	On the idealism of youth	I had a misfortune to listen to the &quot;A Farewell to Arms&quot; audiobook before I attempted to read the novel itself. Unfortunately, a bad speaker is apt to spoil the otherwise good novel, as this case indicates. That should also teach me to never attempt to listen to the book if I am not aware of the contents. Ever since, I follow the first things first strategy. As far as this particular book by Hemingway goes, I think the title is one of the most charming, ever.<br />Set in the last years of World War I in Italy, &quot;A Farewell to Arms&quot; is a classic novel about the side effects the war imposes on the young, 'beardless warriors', to borrow a phrase from Richard Matheson. Apart from those who find combat their duty they can't shirk from, there are young, idealistic men who are attracted to the idea of the war as a symbol of a point in timespace that will allow them to show the qualities they possess, anywhere from patriotism to bravery out of range. It is a truism that many of those young volunteers have been scarred for life by the war experiences, if they happened to outlive their enemies, that is. While &quot;A Farewell to Arms&quot; does not center on the psychological aspects of combat, it does emphasize the phenomenon of young people's naïvet&eacute;, and how fast they mature in the circumstances. Needless to say, their idealistic spirit, while being not entirely compatible with the wartime conditions, makes them easy prey for both the enemy, when they let themselves involved in situations they are not able to handle on their own, and to young women who accompanied the army. Rarely is there a more dangerous mix than love and war, as this novel beautifully illustrates. If not for minor quirks specific to Hemingway's style of writing, and A Farewell to Arms is one of the best examples of this style at work - one might regard this novel as a grand wartime love story. Unfortunately, considered as such, it does not really hold a candle to Erich Maria Remarque's wartime novels, and &quot;Arch of Triumph&quot; in particular. When a young, idealistic protagonist finds himself in a hospital, his beloved takes care of him often enough in addition to the miniature army of nurses, and perhaps it's the fault of the audiobook I listened to, I admit, but the dialogues, the verbal lovemaking and twirling they exchange couldn't appear more artificial. Is that how people in love behave? Are they also so cold, frosty, even? I seriously doubt so. There is no passion between these two young people, not that I could detect any. But perhaps it's just me, and I demand a little bit more from love.<br />These little unimportant quirks notwithstanding, I heartily recommend &quot;A Farewell to Arms&quot; for a few reasons. It's a good way to approach Hemingway's larger works of prose, it's a good way to introduce yourself to the literature of the 1920s, where the memories of the World War I were still fresh, and not overshadowed by the monstrosity of what happened just a decade later. The next major World War changed the world much more than it is usually perceived, another major event of this type in recent history might be only the Anti-French Revolution and the following Napoleonic Pax Franca. Last, but not least, as indicated above, this novel provides a very interesting outlook on the idealism of the youth. All things considered, if you are in your teens, I recommend this book with a firm conviction, and if you are older and have not yet explored Hemingway beyond some short stories, or not even that, &quot;A Farewell to Arms&quot; will be a good point of entry to the Papa's World.	2002-05-20
US	36632284	R2F1YVQSW1E9P7	0312420323	678676875	A Good House: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A chronicler's narrative	The debut novel by Bonnie Burnard caught me unawares, simply because whatever I had expected, I hadn't expected this. Set in a small Canadian town on the shores of Lake Huron, \\"A Good House\\" is a chronicler's narrative, a history of one large family, or rather a set of blood-interconnected families. Divided into chronologically ordered parts, the novel unveils the events from the family's life, just as it started, with scattered hints regarding previous generations, and then the overlapping histories of children chime in, their lives chronicles as decades pass, and they lose their childhood in favor of the dramas, joys and troubles of adulthood. We observe them from a distance, as they age, get married, divorce, die and get reborn in the generations two times removed. That distance is quite well-kept throughout the narrative, being the most prominent feature of the novel. In fact, despite the dialogues and first-person thoughts prickling our reader's mind from time to time, the narrative quickly comes back to the steady flow of description. Not even a third-person narrative that is, simply because the objects change like in a kaleidoscope, families fuse together, and there are no characters who are allowed any kind of introspection. Even Margaret, the backbone of the family, does not deserve anything more than a casual look, as if the author had decided to write a story about some imaginary town with equally imaginary family. The fact that this is work of fiction does not imply that the reader is not to feel engaged, to live with the characters, standing there, just beside them, silent and observant. Reading \\"A Good House\\", I did not have that feeling of being lost; at all times I was aware that I am reading a book, that not even the author could relate to her own characters. I am quite sure that was intended, but as intended as it might have been, I am even less sure that the final effect was anything to write home about. Whenever the new part of the book looks atus with the bold typeface, within the very first page, or two at the most, we learn that this or that happened in the meantime, a few of the characters have been removed to make place for twice as many. Indeed, it's a bit of a strain to keep track of the names, barely mentioned lives, bits and pieces of events. All of this contributes to the general feeling that \\"A Good House\\" is a chronicler's tale, written from the point of view of a very distant relative, omnipotent enough from technical point of view, but not quite as potent with respect to the structure. All this said, I admit I liked the novel enough, especially its softer edge, compared to contemporary American literature, as if Canadians were just a tad closer to Europe and its traditions. If you like family-oriented books, that's a very good book to spend some time with, but I doubt it will stand up to second reading.	2002-05-03
US	36632284	R3AOH6P47W2GZB	0553212524	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Rejecting the human race	It's indeed ironic that great works of literature are censored, not only prior to publication, but also after the books hit the shelves. Depending on a period and country, even a incontroversial author like Jules Verne suffered from closed-mindedness. That totalitarian regimes see fit to burn books, or to actively block publication and distribution of some books, in hope that the nation will not see the uneasy point of view often expressed in books - that fact does not surprise anyone anymore nowadays. But that such practices have been utilized in the land of the free and the brave - makes us wonder how different these two systems are. What had poor Verne done to deserve censorship? \\"Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea\\" was censored prior to publication, and the original manuscript never saw the day during Verne's lifetime. Against his will the author had to cut the social commentary from his trilogy, of which this novel is the first volume. By today's standards, the punishment was incomparable to the guilt, but even then it was disturbing that a work of fiction, a splendid tale of adventure written for the purpose of entertainment and education of the reader, not a political pastiche, mind you, had to have been censored. In particular, the crucial part of the novel had been cut, one in which we learn what were the origins of Captain Nemo, his motivations and heritage. Only years later, after Verne's death, the original manuscript was published, to reveal that Verne originally intended Nemo to have been a Polish nobleman, who escaped his Vaterland after the failure of the 1863 uprising against the Russian Empire. Nemo decided to remove himself from the society, literally from human view - by constructing the famous Nautilus, a submarine, in which he cruised the tranquil abyss of the oceans, where no hand would touch him, and where he wouldn't have to stand the pettiness and cruelty of his fellow human beings.<br />Thus, if you happened to have read the censored version, you would be genuinely puzzled as to the motivations of the Captain. Today, many abridged versions of Verne's novels appear in print, where most of the content is done away with, and what is left is the bare-bones action storyline. To mutilate the book in this way is to commit an unforgivable crime in general, and to hurt the author and readers in particular. \\"Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea\\" deserves to be widely read just as it had been intended by the author, with its wealth of scientific and prophetic information left untouched, with the commentaries and philosophical musings intact. Only then, within the grand context, the adventure makes sense, only then it is art. I have read this novel circa twenty times; I have admired Captain Nemo for years; I have held my breath in the depths of the Golfstr&ouml;m in the Norwegian Sea during the storm, and during many thrilling moments in the book, not to mention the unforgettable conclusion of the novel; I have tried to solve the mystery of the waterborne ship made of steel, with its many complicated instruments; I have followed the arguments hurled between the Captain and the involuntary passengers of the Nautilus; and finally, I was trembling all over whenever I reached the culmination of the adventure. Verne was a genius, and Captain Nemo was his most original character creation, one I am very fond of for personal reasons, as is I am sure the case with many other readers of the prophetic French author.	2002-04-29
US	36632284	R2SWNXHA5Y9HJ3	0140071075	887689385	We Have Always Lived in the Castle	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Merricat, said Constance, would you like a cup of tea?	Have you ever wondered what is inside old seemingly abandoned mansions, or ruins? Perhaps many of us grew up in the vicinity of a derelict building, and felt the creeping uneasiness when we approached the site. There it was, covered with moss and vine, pregnant with silence, with no birds singing anywhere near, with that special gloom hanging over the site; sun or no sun. A daredevil or two might have ventured inside, to be scared out of their wits. It's a similar atavism to the one displayed by any member of the Western civilization who enters the boneyard. We know that there is nothing there that means us any harm, and yet... I like to suppose that this was the source of inspiration, or at least one of such, for Shirley Jackson and her \\"We Have Always Lived in the Castle\\". <br />Set somewhere in the XX century, judging from the technology, \\"We Have Always Lived in the Castle\\" might just as well be placed anywhere in time, for as usual with the stories of Mrs. Jackson, the setup is hardly relevant; it's the story that matters, not the packaging, which only helps explain why the stories outlived the author. A small village, and their small-minded villagers, or so it seems at the very beginning, and a mysterious site, with its equally mysterious inhabitants. When we start to read the novel, it's very hard to ascertain who is who and what is the heart of the matter, to speak in grahamgreenese. Only as we near the end of the book we start to understand what has happened and why, but Shirley Jackson holds us in suspense till the very end, with which I am most pleased. In many stories of Shirley Jackson, this one in particular, as much as in 'The Lottery', evil is the most normal occurrence, something not to be questioned, or fought upon; we accept it, somehow. I couldn't help moving back in time to the period when America was in its infant stage, and my imagination served images so well known from Washington Irving's \\"The Story of the Sleepy Hollow\\". Gothic as they were, both stories share a similar feeling. <br />\\"We Have Always Lived in the Castle\\" has other, lighter, shades to it. In particular, we have an opportunity to enter the mind of a young girl, figuratively speaking. Girls have secrets, they have always had. Merricat, for instance, buries things. She has a hideout at the creek, behind the branches and bushes. She has her chants and mantras. She has her talismans, her precious treasures. She is polite and delicate, but also wild with combed hair but very uncombed thoughts and behavior. A very willful girl. It would never come to my male mind to react the way she does, but then, aren't we from different planets? That's all the charm - all these differences. <br />As a side note, whoever designed the cover for this book should be feathered and tarred!	2002-04-28
US	36632284	R2UKHCUKEJSFCU	0618126910	177300630	Wild Decembers	Books	5	15	19	N	N	On pride and vanity	Edna O'Brien has chosen the Irish countryside as a source of inspiration, although for decades she has been away from the land, only visiting from time to time. In her memoir, \\"Mother Ireland\\", there is a statement many expats can identify with:<br />\\"Irish? In truth I would not want to be anything else. It is a state of mind as well as an actual country. It is being at odds with other nationalities, having quite different philosophy about pleasure, about punishment, about life, and about death.\\" p. 129<br />It's not that some traumatic events have left an irremovable scar on one's personality. We can't forget the culture we were born into, because we are defined by our heritage, and our thinking, our identity is shaped by our Vaterland. For years the writer has suffered bitter comments coming from the natives of the Emerald Island, her own ilk - comments that denied her the right to write, as if there was an obligation to be chained to the land to be able to write about its inhabitants. Indeed, sometimes to see things in a proper perspective, you have to leave your environment. In the age of global information and easy transport, there is no external obstacle that would hamper the ability to relate to the land left behind. Some of the greatest works of the world literature were conceived on emigration. It's thus obvious that the value of the book depends only on the individual talent of the author. In the case of Edna O'Brien, there is no lack of the latter.<br />\\"Wild Decembers\\" is yet another novel set in the provincial world of Irish villagers. As usual, O'Brien purveys the darker side of humanity. In small communities of the countryside, any newcomer is under suspicion on the basis that newcomers are not to be trusted, for there is no complete information about him on the part of the villagers. That fact alone leaves them uneasy, and even if pure good-naturedness makes them treat him with respect, he is always to be blamed should anything happen. Obviously, sooner or later something is bound to happen, and guided by pure instinct, the community turns against the intruder, much like in any community, whether human, or that of animals. Such are the laws of nature, and the smaller the community, the more likely it is to conform to these laws. The urbane world of metropolies compared th the countryside seems like another planet, where one is allowed the simple comfort of anonymity. There is no anonymity to be enjoyed in a village; its inhabitants live under an umbrella of the extended family, and the black sheep, the dissenters, are not to be tolerated. The drama begins when the feelings enter the stage, as is the case with young Breege, whose brother has about a hundred bones to pick with Michael Bugler, the newcomer. The former two live in an almost incestuous relationship, where the brother assumed the position of a husband, whose divine right, as understood by generations of villagers, is to control every move of the wife, and to accept or decline every decision she is trying to make. The point is, that small misunderstandings, which might be resolved on the spot, were there a minimal willingness to cooperate - those petty events and quarrels take the form of a conflict of immense dimensions, where the village as a whole are sometimes more or less active participants, yet always willing to play the role of spectators, the mental descendants of the Roman mob filling the circus to the brink. In \\"Wild Decembers\\", Edna O'Brien analyzes the sources of this everlasting newcomer problem, tries to identify its causality, and does so with success. One of the most interesting aspects of this particular novel is the emphasis put on pride and vanity. Prejudice against newcomers can easily evaporate, if the latter are agreeable enough, but what can't be done away with is the human pride, an overblown \\"sense of honor\\", so to speak. <br />Books by this author may not be uplifting, but if you are able to reconcile yourself with this fact, there is a wealth of cultural information to be learned from her works, not to mention the sheer pleasure of reading the unique language of Edna O'Brien.	2002-04-27
US	36632284	R1YYPZ8AE3JLJ7	0300082401	435845781	Ferdydurke	Books	5	65	73	N	N	Linguistic archetypes and immaturity	&quot;Ferdydurke&quot; by Witold Gombrowicz has finally been properly translated into English. Not that this is an event worth mentioning in general, but the point to be made is that the world of translation offers room for all kinds of mischief and sloppiness. Who would have thought that it were perfectly acceptable for publishers to allow translation from a second, and not native tongue? Imagine, for purposes of illustration, that a work of a classic British author translated into German not directly, but from Suahili, for this was the language the book was first translated into. Would you be satisfied with a product of this type? This was the fate of Gombrowicz, his native tongue was done away with, and the Anglo-Saxon world of bibliophiles had had no other choice but to read a lemon. Perhaps this is the revenge of the Heavens on the author himself, for never was there any other Polish author who had his native country in such a low regard as he did. In his &quot;Trans-Atlantyk&quot;, Gombrowicz dared to ridicule everything a Pole holds dear, together with the whole idea of a nation as such. Were he to live today, he would embrace the idea of convergence and the global village of consumptionism, as opposed to Europe of Nations. That was one of the main reasons for Gombrowicz's emigration to Argentina, where he spent almost all of his literary career. <br />&quot;Ferdydurke&quot; is an early novel by this author, and it's never as crass as the aforementioned &quot;Trans-Atlantyk&quot;. In fact, it constitutes part of a literary canon in Poland to this very day, and there is no educated Pole who hasn't read or at least heard of &quot;Ferdydurke&quot;. Scenes from this book, gestures, and neologisms entered the mass vocabulary, and once you learn some of these expressions, you cannot unlearn them, for then there is no better way to express yourself, but to use the phrases coined by Gombrowicz. Whatever issues Poles have with this author, one thing is certain: we aregrateful to him for augmenting our language. Gombrowicz created an archetype of a confused man, whose karma is to move back in time, back to school, with the mentality of an adult. I will even risk a claim that this fact alone lies at the very heart of science fiction - for how might that be possible, and what would happen if such occurence took place? How would that affect the object in queestion? Perhaps my perception of this problem is a bit skewed due to my occupational hazard of a scientist, but for me, &quot;Ferdydurke&quot; is a laboratory novel, where with a literary set of tools we analyze both the situation, and the object, in the vein of the medieval alchemist. This novel, hardly known in the English-speaking world, will be an exhilarating reading experience for you, provided that you will trust me and pick it up. The amusing analysis of the immature world the protagonist found himself in, mixed with elements from all literary forms, from plain mystery, via comedy, to sophisticated analysis of society, makes Ferdydurke an experimental novel of potential interest for all bibliophiles and lovers of the nonstandard.	2002-04-26
US	36632284	R100G7WEPIT9LW	0679642366	53340599	The Mysterious Island	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A new translation of "The Mysterious Island"	Jules Verne is a literary monument, his books are still read and popular a century after his death, and it is not too difficult to predict that this state of affairs will prevail as long as books are read and civilization does not cut its roots off. Nowadays, whenever one hears that one book or another is labeled as science fiction, images immediately come to mind - space stations, aliens, whatever. More than one and a half a century ago, however, when the Western world experienced industrialization at an exponential rate, and when literature peacefully embraced a new form of expression, the novel - science entered the literary world, and widened its scope, to immediately possess the minds of creative individuals. It is a fact that come the second half of the XIX century, the fast pace of scientific discovery influenced writers, but what is even more important, is that the visionary concepts embedded in the science fiction literature of the time in turn influenced the men of science. <br />Verne initially embraced the idea of technological progress, and ventured into lands thus unknown with a long series of modern novels, which were both educational, and conceptually adventurous, not to mention the fact that the pure thrill of adventure emanating from his books arrested the hearts of his contemporaries, and generations to come. Later in his life, Verne again prophesied the future, having observed that the enormous technological leap can not only benefit the society, but also hamper the fast-growing civilization, causing dangers of utmost importance to be reckoned with. Accordingly, his novels of late became grim, destructive, and dangerous from the point of view of progress and its public relations, as we would say today. Despite the fact that he was the most popular novelist of his time on the Continent, he did experience problems with censorship, which was his constant source of frustration. Even his most revered literary achievement, \\"20.000 Leagues Under the Sea\\", was denied publication unless he removed the political context. Astonishingly, even a hundred years later the original text was not restored. Only in recent decades we had the opportunity to read his masterpieces of adventure as they were originally written. <br />\\"The Mysterious Island\\" was first translated into English still in the XIX century, and until last year, that was the only translation available. The morose fact is that the translation in question deviated substantially from the original. In this was the Anglo-Saxon readers were at a slight disadvantage compared to readers from the European Continent, where translations were faithful, and who could also read Verne in the unhampered original. Anno Domini 2001, as irony would have it, two new English translations appeared in print, both of which claim to restore the authoritative text of Jules Verne. What a treat! If you spent many an hour in your youth reading \\"The Mysterious Island\\", I heartily recommend this new, updated translation. If you have not had an opportunity to discover the hilarious world of adventure by Monsieur Verne, it's high time you started.<br />Depending on the edition, \\"The Mysterious Island\\" is published in several volumes, or in one thick hardbound volume. It might be interesting to note for the newcomer, though, that this novel is a part of interconnected set of masterpieces of adventure, which may be read independently with no harm on the part of the reader, but the best experience is to be achieved if the novels are read in the order Verne intended, that is, \\"20.000 Leagues Under the Sea\\" as a first entry, then \\"The Mysterious Island\\", and finally \\"The Children of Captain Grant\\". <br />\\"The Mysterious Island\\" would be a classic robinsonade, if not for its scientific bent of positivism, a trend strongly present in most works of fiction by Jules Verne. Several individuals are cast away on a lone island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. Of course, they do not let themselves fall into despair, but instead they start building the society anew. Although full of technical elements, \\"The Mysterious Island\\" is primarily an exotic mystery, where the unprecedented flavor of adventure overwhelms the reader for days to come. I heartily recommend this novel to all young people of both sexes, the sooner they discover Jules Verne, the better, for they will never forget that experience, nor will they ever part with the exquisite fiction of Jules Verne.	2002-04-23
US	36632284	R1B8S4FR9BYDXK	0935526854	140407865	The Phantom Ship (Classics of Nautical Fiction Series)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	The Flying Dutchman	Once upon a time, somewhere in the middle of the XVII century, Mynheer Captain Vanderdecken defied God and brought a curse of the Heavens on himself and his crew, to sail in doom and suffering until the Day of Judgment, bringing despair and death to encountered seamen, unless the holy relic is offered to him, for that is the only chance of forgiveness for Captain Vanderdecken. The phantom ship thus haunts the Cape, later to be know as the Cape of Hope, at the southern outskirts of Africa, but of course, since it's no longer of this earth, it may appear anywhere at the wild seas, serving as a fatal prophecy of disaster. The captain's wife keeps the secret to herself, until one day her son is grown enough to make a decision to go to sea. Frightened out of her wits, the widow reveals the secret, and thus Philip Vanderdecken learns that his fate, his destiny, is to find his doomed father and salvage his soul from eternal hell. And so begins the most revered nautical tale of adventure, a literary account of the Flying Dutchman legend, written by Captain Marryat, the man who spent the best years of his life at the seas in the service of the United Kingdom. Written in the first half of the XIX century, when the literary form of the novel was in its toddler stage, \\"The Phantom Ship\\" is astoundingly modern in expression, although the language is often very ancient. Together with the protagonists, we sail around the Cape, we travel around the globe through the Magellan straits dividing the savage land of Patagonia from Terra del Fuego, the door to the Antarctic; in a never-ending series of breathtaking adventures we discover the nautical world of the XVII century, where the Indian and Atlantic Oceans with the surrounding shores were the battlefield where Portugal, Holland, Spain and England fought for domination. Despite the fact that this text will soon be two hundred years old, I can guarantee that you will read this novel more than once, simply because good adventure nevergets old, and the ancient world of wooden ships is as enchanting as ever. And then there are the historical and theological aspects of the book. Needless to say, in the mid XVII century the Holy Inquisition was at the peak of its power. \\"The Phantom Ship\\", the mythical tale of the Flying Dutchman, is also contextually rich, and offers a plausible, though grim, portrayal of the times. The books is thus serious, analytical, well-researched, and enriched by the author's personal experiences - in addition to the invariably entertaining and often horrifying tale of the cursed ship. The century which just passed was the century of the imperfect man, with atrocities and weaknesses in the spotlight, and it's indeed refreshing to read a novel where it's a perfectly natural phenomenon that all things are in place, men were men and women weren't; and the words, terms and descriptions hadn't lost their original meaning yet. This novel is guaranteed to entertain, do not hesitate to pick it up.	2002-04-22
US	36632284	R2YIIYRDAJV9SF	0312277032	717819417	Rainlight	Books	4	8	9	N	N	On memory	\\"Rainlight\\" is a little novel that will probably go unnoticed in the long run, simply because it's delicate, and does not stomp on your conscience with the grand issues of this world, it has nothing that may attract a sensation-looking reader, nor it has any revelations to offer. Instead, \\"Rainlight\\" is a small gift to be unwrapped and read, an invitation to a small world of just a few people living in upstate New York, trying to cope with the ordinary. A bit gray, like life of most of us, the book focuses on the faltering memories of our kin whom we had lost long ago, in another era, when we were barely able to speak and walk. How much is there left? How accurate are our memories? Lucky indeed are those of us who only casually think about it every blue moon, for some reason that is as external to us as almost anything else that happens in our life. Our memory goes through a period of renaissance when our children are born, and we have a nagging opportunity to compare three generations and the mysterious ways of ever-evolving genes. Then amongst us there are those who are not that lucky, young children who lost their parents for this or that reason, old enough to understand the loss, young enough to partially forget. Lots of water must flow under the bridge until the scars heal, mostly they just fade away to linger somewhere in the subconscious. It's a hard thing to do - to live through the breakthrough: at one moment there he is, at another moment, there is not; not anymore. All that is left is memory. And so we try, try to recall the traits, customs and habits that made the suddenly departed - unique. How much is there left for us to gather? In \\"Rainlight\\", a small girl, Madeleine, is trying to preserve the memories of her father while she still remembers, and to recover her lost memories. She's working on it, working very hard, there is nothing more important than memories. In this delicate story of loss and longing, Alison McGhee shows how different various members of the family react to their own, private variety of loss, and to one big loss that unites them in ways unspoken - through understanding that comes in time. The Moose, of course, tenderly recommends.	2002-04-12
US	36632284	RIE1OPU5OWRM1	0060931736	177553936	Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, The (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	An ingenious little book	&quot;The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie&quot; is the first book I read by this famous Scottish writer, and right after I finished, I searched the web to learn that Dame Spark has played an important role in the development of trends in modern, contemporary British literature. Due to the heavyweight nature of the reading matter I recently devoured, I decided to buy the shortest book by Muriel Spark, and it turned out to be one of her most important ones, with a charming literary archetype, the lovable Miss Brodie. At first, I had thought to myself - what an amusing little book! - but when I finished the novel, I had quite a different set of perceptions, although I still think that the essence of this this book is more of anecdotal humor than of anything else. A perfect, encyclopedic example of how, in literary fiction, delicious entertainment may be successfully married with profound philosophical issues. <br />Only a small subset of pupils are lucky to be educated, and prepared for life by teachers with a true calling, like Miss Brodie. Teaching is an occupation like any other, yet it's the most instrumental for shaping the personality and outlook of a young human being. Some parents are good teachers, that's their duty after all, though again only a small subset of parents are the true mentors worth their salt. Yet it's the school and then the university, that has enormous impact on us. Being a teenager means to find oneself in a constant, continuous trauma of discovery, where all kinds of events and situations force us to make decisions, to make judgments, to distinguish the right from the wrong, and last but not least, what to do with one's life. So many of us wander aimlessly because there is no one who might give us a helping hand, who might nurse the blooming talents we might have, and so we drift through life and wonder why some are luckier than others, or do not wonder at all, which is even worse. Young people need some authority to look up to; not the authorityin the authoritarian sense, but in the classical, ancient meaning of this word. Education at its best is not a dead transmission of edification, but an active development of the soul and the mind, a guided development of culture, where a sensitive young person learns to not be afraid to evaluate the world around her. <br />Miss Brodie had only a short-lived contact with a small set of young girls, but she managed to influence their whole life, whether the initial enchantment with the mentor lasted forever or not. &quot;The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie&quot; is a satire, thus it should not be taken literally, in case you were so inclined. I have been lucky to have been guided by mentors, and I will never forget their lessons, although most of them have been implicit, and then many of them understood only after a long time. This novel means the world to me, because if there is one thing I was born to do, it's teaching, and teaching in a highly personal way. There is little that can make me more happy than a contribution to someone's young life, a devotion of one's prime, to quote the ingenious Dame Muriel Spark.	2002-04-08
US	36632284	R15PMW9HLFN810	0425165582	316168356	Books of Blood, Vols. 1-3	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Que sera, sera...	\\"Books of Blood\\" is the first book by Clive Barker, dating from 1984 - a collection of short stories of often violent and sexual content, most of them with a strong supernatural bent. I am glad to have discovered an author who has so fertile an imagination, and who apparently refuses to be pigeonholed and categorized, despite the fact that virtually all of his works, including stories for children, novels, short stories or plays, involve the otherwordly element to a smaller or greater degree. I appreciate the open-mindedness of the author. This particular collection does not feature a unifying theme, and the stories vary both thematically and with respect to the length, intensity and quality. Some of the stories are morbid, others violent, as the title might suggest to the potential reader, and yet others have explicit sexual content of the form I couldn't care less fo, i.e. rape, prostitution, homosexuality, cannibalism, ritual murder, you name it. It's a tough book to read, but despite the bloody or often dubious subject matter, these stories are sometimes fascinating. Barker has the unique ability to create the fantastic paralell worlds of imagination, only apparently resembling our own world at the strand of nightmares. If you have nerves made of steel, you might enjoy this book thoroughly. Sadly, the stories are very uneven, ranging from utterly horrible (and I do not mean horror here) to the ingenious, with many shades of gray inbetween. The best story contained in this volume is 'The Yattering and Jack', an indeed \\"knee-slapping hilarious\\" story of Jack and .... the Yattering, the poor demon. It's one of the best stories ever written, quite deep, no matter how you approach it, traditional and at the same time innovative, and most of all, incredibly entertaining. I can bet spruce needles against reindeer food that having finished this story you will whistle or hum \\"Que sera, sera...\\" for days, if not weeks, to come. In summary, a book well worth reading, a signal that a new, interesting author had entered the world of fiction in 1984.	2002-04-07
US	36632284	ROO9K2IZYRW7V	0618197303	157710736	In the Forest: A Novel	Books	5	18	18	N	N	In the forest of madness	&quot;In the Forest&quot; borders on creative nonfiction. Based on real, gruesome events which took place in one of the western counties of Ireland, the book is a fictionalized account of these events, augmented by equally fictional life story of the protagonist. It's hard to say that Michen O'Kane is a protagonist, really, because the weight of importance is quite substantially dispersed in the novel. Although the events and the backbone of the storyline are central to the narration, I think the author has undertaken quite a different direction in the book; the ultimate accent is put on the setting, the neighborhood, the analysis of circumstances, rather than the usual set of characters, be they major or minor. The author almost never ventures deeply into the character's introspection, which is merely just another block in the mosaic, never dominating the remainder. Despite that fact, &quot;In the Forest&quot; is a fascinating psychological studium of deviation. Having provided the literary account of the slaughter and the paranoia that preceded it, Edna O'Brien wanted to pin down the reasons why at one time in the life of a man, a seemingly unimportant event can change the whole life of this individual, what are the motivations that inevitably push him to the edge of the abyss, and then one step too far, past the point of return, and precisely why there is no point of return, once the mind snaps, once the critical mass of confusion is achieved, and the darkness of madness starts to dominate from that point on. <br />One might suppose that to provide a fictional background for the shocking, real-life events is quite common and unoriginal, and that the reader might pretty well guess what to expect from the novel of this type. The point is, &quot;In the Forest&quot; is not the novel of any such type, and certainly you will be surprised if you think that &quot;In the Forest&quot; can be categorized using any genre classifications. To pigeonhole a novel of this class is indeed a crime. Short chapters, one by one, introduce us to many viewpoints, where narration styles are blended, perspectives skewed, mixed and exchanged, where exactly when you expect the action to pick up, the flow of the story becomes sublime and poetic, and when you get progressively used to the book being a wonderfully painted portrayal of the Irish country with the unique communities inhabiting them, the flow is brutally intercepted with a sequence of chapters with all accents inverted. Reading this book is a pleasure hardly comparable with anything that may await the reader of contemporary fiction in the new century. <br />Edna O'Brien is I think one of the greatest living and active novelists of our day. It's quite uncommon for a writer to get better and better over the many long years, usually it's the other way round. Anno Domini 2002, it's no longer enough to say that Edna O'Brien has her own, instantly recognizable style, that her writing is of unmatched class, of sparkling beauty and mesmerizing, poetic narration, where even the unthinkable and devastating shines on like a lone diamond down by the Irish river. An absolutely stunning phenomenon of this writer is that she continues to innovate, to expand the boundaries of the literary world of fiction. After so many years, several highly revered books, the new entries leave us wondering if there is any limit at all. We find ourselves in an awkward situation, where each and every books of Edna rises the threshold of expectations, and yet the next entry surpasses the predecessors and the updated expectations alike. &quot;In the Forest&quot; is pure delight, the exhilarating reading experience, the penultimate dot over i, after which nothing else seems to add anything of interest on the topic.	2002-04-06
US	36632284	RYPFVR7M8YAR6	0679725318	210931818	Invitation to a Beheading	Books	5	49	54	N	N	Gnostical turpitude!	&quot;Invitation to a Beheading&quot; is a strange book. First of all, it sports a brilliant preface by the author, and truth be told, this preface is superior to the contents of the novel itself. In response to just a few pages, you feel compelled to buy the author's &quot;Lectures on Literature&quot;, which are only a poor substitute for the real experience of listening to Nabokov in person. The author explains the intricacies of translation, done by his son, Dmitri, under the father's supervision, with particular emphasis put on the title. If you are lucky to know Russian, you will be able to appreciate the importance of the problem at hand, and in addition you will see how well this book is translated into English. At different points in his life Nabokov wrote in three different languages, and &quot;Invitation to a Beheading&quot; dates from 1934, in a period where the author still wrote in his beautiful and melodic mother tongue. This is an early book by this author, and ever since its publication it was compared to Franz Kafka's &quot;The Castle&quot;, which annoyed Nabokov a little, which he ironically expresses in the aforementioned preface.<br />&quot;Spiritual affinities have no place in my concept of literary criticism, but if I did have to choose a kindred soul, it would certainly be that great artist [Kafka - the Moose] rather than G. H. Orwell or other popular purveyors of illustrated ideas and publicistic fiction. Incidentally, I could never understand why every book of mine invariably sends reviewers scurrying in search of more or less celebrated names for the purpose of passionate comparison. During the last three decades they have hurled at me (to list but a few of these harmless missiles) Gogol, Tolstoyevski, Joyce, Voltaire, Sade, Stendhal, Balzac, Byron, Bierbohm, Proust, Kleist, Makar Marinski, Mary McCarthy, Meredith (!), Cervantes, Charlie Chaplin, Baroness Murasaki, Pushkin, Ruskin, and even Sebastian Knight. One author, however, has never been mentioned in this connection - the only author whom I must gratefully recognize as an influence upon me at the time of writing this book; namely, the melancholy, extravagant, wise, witty, magical, and altogether delightful Pierre Delalande, whom I invented.&quot; <br />Any type of plot summary will not give this book justice, for you must know that this book is not about the plot. In the case of Invitation to a Beheading, writing a blurb is much like writing a blurb with a summary of an Emily Dickinson poem. Well, once upon a time ago, in the paralell universe of the fantasy realm of Nabokov's imagination, Cincinnatus C. is captured, and found guilty of gnostic turpitude, a crime escaping definition. Cincinnatus has visions. He writes about them. His family visits him in the fortress, where he is locked. And he does not understand a thing of all this mess he found himself in. Yet he does not lose his wit, and tries to manage his fate as best he can. And it turns out that he can manage pretty much, considering. The book is Russian to the bone. Nowhere else are born authors with such a specific sense of humor and absurd. Mother Russia gave us many writers with unique, inimitable style. Nabokov is one of them, although a at the same time having been a prodigal son who never returned to his native land. Like Trevanian, he carried the kernel of culture within himself, he was the culture. Like any other escapist fantasy, Invitation to a beheading can be interpreted in many ways, and that has been done for the last 60 years, and then some, but submissing myself to the author's will, I will leave the story without any further comment. Suffice it to say that this novel is a difficult book, but if you happen to be so inclined, you will jump up, ruffling your hair, to paraphrase the author. I hope you will!	2002-04-06
US	36632284	R7RDA5JF9864W	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Specific Gravity of Emotion	This novel is supposedly one of the famous unreviewables, one might say, and for quite a few reasons, one might add. Obviously, the subject matter of \\"Lolita\\" has always left some readers uneasy, to say the least, but as a European, I took it for what it was, a brilliantly written story of love, with a somewhat shifted specific gravity of emotion. The protagonist is in a way [handicapped], for his emotional development was arrested somewhere in the early teens, and ever since, despite the burden of consciousness that adulthood brings, he is unable to restrain his lust whenever the special circumstances arise - that is whenever he finds himself in the vicinity of a nymphette, as he explains the phenomenon to himself, or in fact any young girl resembling his object of love from the past, to be precise. Faced with the loss of the beloved, he constantly seeks the same tint of emotion, making him more and more ridiculous the older he is. Here lies the tragedy of arrested development, for not only Humbert has a serious problem, which he is unable to resist to get into repeatedly, to finally succumb to passion for Dolores, the famous Lolita, but also because he is aware of the wrongness of his actions, his tendencies, his life - for we have to realize that for Humbert, all other things ceased to exist, his life evolved around only one planet, like an abandoned moon in the far corner of the galaxy, where the rest of the society never ventures, although being at the same time aware of the moon's existence. It's a classic tragedy, a modern counterpart of the Oedipus myth, viewed rather from the perspective of the elder, not the younger.<br />If you haven't read the book, you might wonder about the origin of the immense popularity of \\"Lolita\\", a book which was successfully filmed twice, despite the relatively disturbing subject matter. Nabokov displayed an enormous civil courage, having dared to publish the novel while the book might just as well turn out to have been his literary grave. The novel is still popular because many people recognize the helplessness of the protagonist, who found himself facing the insolvable problem, exceeding his abilities to resist. The subject may be easily extrapolated to all other phenomena of humanity, for the human being is fundamentally weak, prone to both a mischief, and a cardinal sin of all possible flavors. Ever since the publication of \\"Lolita\\", the characters from this novel became immortal, having entered the mass conscience, augmenting the vocabularies of all nations - exactly what we think of the archetype, the image so convincing that all that is conceived later in the imagination of other authors, is referred to it, where the image serves as a basis for comparison from which there is no escape. <br />Only one question remains to be answered, and that is why is it that no other book involving a similar theme ever enjoyed such popularity, why weren't these books as revered as \\"Lolita\\" has been. The answer, simply, is that no one ever came close to the literary genius of Vladimir Nabokov, and what under his pen appeared to be a masterpiece, coming from other authors appeared to be a kind of deviant tripe, a good example may be one of the earlier novels by McEwan, namely \\"The Cement Garden\\". Nabokov's book is a psychological study and a beautiful love story, something we can't deny despite the inevitable uneasiness, whereas other attempts to write about that specific gravity of emotion were nothing short of obnoxious. <br />Finally, I think that there is no point in recommending this book to anyone. Some readers will have a strict opinion before they attempt to read this novel, if ever, and others will be attracted to the subject matter, and will never finish, because their expectations of the sensational material will never be met. Yet others will pass on this book, and that's just as well. I think that if you like excellent writing, if you like good literature of the highest order, you will not only read Lolita, but also other novels and stories by Vladimir Nabokov - and you will not need a recommendation to do that; you will explore Nabokov on your own, guided by the longtime reader's intuition.	2002-03-27
US	36632284	R2YLW84SDVMMMA	0374516812	9117281	The Lottery and Other Stories	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Seven types of ambiguity - an inimitable & original voice	Shirley Jackson was a writer of a unique talent, whose stories carried the inimitable stigma of originality, both in the structure of the stories per se, and in the subject matter. It's refreshing to know that her stories are still read almost forty years after her death, that the mere fact that she authored longer works ever since classified as the background work in horror genre - didn't diminish the importance of her more ambitious works, collected in this volume. In other words, we should be grateful that Jackson was not pigeonholed as a writer routinely delivering the literary equivalent of circus and bread to the mass reader. Although \\"The Lottery\\" is her most widely recognized short story from this collection, almost every single story contained here is worth the laurel. <br />The book starts with \\"The Intoxicated\\", where in a single scene Jackson conveyed the enormous tension between a drunk man and a girl, talking in the dimness of the kitchen, during the party. Right off the bat, during the first few pages of this book, we have an opportunity to see that Jackson's stories may be interpreted in various ways and that her stories serve as a departure station of a train of thought that inevitably follows. Each piece is a mighty knock on the reader's head, forcing him to break the reading for a while. To think. Now, that's powerful storytelling. Then follows the best piece of the collection - a heartbreaking story of \\"The Daemon Lover\\", which is as far apart from its predecessor as possible - both in intensity and in the subject matter. A small, brilliant allegory on the despair of a woman scorned. I have read many a novel with the abandoned woman in the center, but never have I understood so much about the essence of despair as I did from \\"The Daemon Lover\\". One by one, Jackson delivers ingenious stories, all uniformly devoid of references to the outside world of literature, with all characters bearing similar, or identical names, as the anonymity is essential. Drained of almost all points of reference, the stories allow us to focus on the real content, on whatever Jackson wanted to convey, and the latter is delightfully disputable, and I wish I had someone to talk to about \\"Trial by Combat\\", or \\"Like Mother Used to Make\\". The book is divided into several parts, sorted thematically, if that's what it is, for each and every story in this book is so original and distinct, that it's hardly possible to sort them in any way. The first part ends with \\"My Life with R. H. Macy\\", one of the most humorous stories ever written!<br />The second part of the book features stories with children, and indeed some are absolutely delicious: \\"Charles\\", or \\"Afternoon in Linen\\" being the best examples. However, the author is deadly serious in some other stories, for a change, and our smiles quickly fade when we read \\"After You, My Dear Alphonse\\", or Flower Garden. Then again, in \\"Dorothy and My Grandmother, and the Sailors\\", Jackson comes back to the abstract tone of the opening story in this volume, and combines the humorous with the gravely serious, with the powerfully analytical. Her stories are very short, but rarely so much diverse content and chameleonly atmosphere has been ever squeezed into so little space, with the plainest setup possible. Then comes the third part of the collection, with slightly longer stories, and the supposedly autobiographical \\"Elizabeth\\", where Jackson tells an enormously depressing tale set in New York, a tale of a single lady, a secretary in a literary agency. You think that's bland and common? I dare you to read \\"Elizabeth\\", and attempt to claim the same after you finish! The author's keen observational sense is very evident in \\"The Dummy\\", \\"Come Dance with Me in Ireland\\" and \\"Seven Types of Ambiguity\\"; the title of the latter being one of my favorite titles, ever. The aforementioned stories are by no means complex. Just snapshots, situationally pregnant stories, carving a narrow, deep cut in the flesh of the mammoth otherwise known as the human nature. This book seemed to never end, for my infinite enjoyment. I laughed with \\"Of Course\\", I was paranoid with \\"Pillar of Salt\\", I was compassionate with \\"Men With Their Big Shoes\\", I was alternatively dreaming the unreal and feeling the mind-numbing pain with \\"The Tooth\\", and I was furious, proud and vain with \\"Got a Letter from Jimmy\\". And then, as might have been expected, I was grossed out and horrified with \\"The Lottery\\". A powerful ending of this superb collection of short stories.	2002-03-27
US	36632284	R1FO4MRSO3TNFG	0691043175	50744749	Experimental Economics	Books	4	5	11	N	N	Valuable reference	&quot;Experimental Economics&quot; was the first serious textbook on the subject, for many reasons. First of all, this subset of economics is not considered theory, since it's theories being tested and scrutinized, which constitutes the essence of the sub-field. On top of that, experimental economics is relatively unpopular, despite its breakthrough in the last two decades, and is taught in very few select doctoral programs in the United States, ignored pretty much everywhere else. The reason for this is that although infinitely useful for case-by-case testing of individual choice theory, or to some little extent, asymmetric information effects in broadly understood game theory and mechanism design, the experimental methods described in this book, and experimentation in general, has a severly limited use for theory, be it economics, or social psychology. From the logical point of view the field should not be expanded in other directions, simply because experimental testing due to their inductive nature, may not serve as a basis for constructing new theories, or expanding existing ones. As such, the field is sterile, and not fertile, as might seem judging from the prolific output of the scholars specializing in experimental economics. Therefore, the field is of limited use for analysis of phenomena where no data is being collected, nor it ever has, due to the immanent nature of these phenomena. In this respect, experimental economics is virtually the only tool to test the logically valid economic and psychological theories conceived outside the experimental field, as it should be. Davis and Holt's textbook is quite dry, and I'd rather recommend &quot;The Handbook of Experimental Economics&quot;, or a good selection of papers, but still, since there is no alternative, and since the authors do a reasonably good job of collecting and analyzing the vast material in a concise form, the book should finds its way to the shelf of all serious students and researchers of abstract individual choice, and possibly, mechanism design.	2002-03-26
US	36632284	RCR1357H5XHLC	080411918X	832554018	A Patchwork Planet	Books	5	7	8	N	N	On the autumn of life	In the literary world of writers, it's not often the case that one of them devotes all their efforts in that arena to paint a picture of one city, the beloved place - not the city which one is born into, but the city, which one consciously chooses for a lifetime. European cities are so charming, bursting in seams with history, that they can boast of numerous bards, artists, writers, who saw no other inspiration in the world but their city, who tried to express that cozy, familiar feeling towards the inanimate shared by so many people. Needless to say, it's not just the building, streets, or particular location that constitutes the city, but its history and its past and current inhabitants, mostly, who in turn are attracted to the city to have no wish to live anywhere else whatsoever. And hence a self-sustaining equilibrium is evident. Anne Tyler is a writer of Baltimore, in an American state of Maryland. All of her novels bar one are set in this Eastern-American industrial city. Thus far I have read four books by this novelist, and each and every time I just smile, seeing the town in my mind's eye. What's this town, according to Anne? With indeed rare exceptions, the city shares an atmosphere with the smallest villages anywhere in the Northern Hemisphere. You can't help but notice that everyone knows each other, that human relationships mutually influence one another, that it's hard to do anything without your neighbors knowing about it right away. <br />For Anne Tyler, it's the human dimension that matters most, she is not interested in abstract ideas per se, rather preferring to inquire on the nature of human relations via very focused and narrow analysis of select families and neighborhoods. It's not to say that her works lack perspective because of the utter nonexistence of abstraction, the grandiloquent approach so commonly devoured in purely masculine fiction. I strongly believe that these two approaches to literature, among others, hybrid combinations - complement one another. To have the broadest possible view, a human being of culture should pursue both, to find the ultimate reader's experience. Anne Tyler's fiction is about the best feminine literature of the XX century. Not because of her gender, but because of her outlook, her attitude, and the system of values eminent in her prose. For me, reading all of her books has been a traveling adventure, where one by one I visited the Venusian galaxies, where everything is perceived differently, understood differently, and where I had a unique opportunity to absorb the feminine, to gain an invaluable insight into the metaphysics of the femme.<br />Such is also \\"A Patchwork Planet\\", one of the recent novels by this gifted author. Truth be told, it really does not matter at all whether you read this author's novel written in the seventies, or two decades later, simply because time stopped in Baltimore - or, rather - in Baltimore of Anne Tyler, all important events of life run according to the one and only Baltimore time, with the rest of the world forgotten. This time, Anne offers us a valid analysis of redemption, and the ways the neighborhoods deal with the ones who need it. Anyone who lived in a small town, or in a close-knit neighborhood, will immediately recognize the reputation problem. Once you have a momentary lapse of reason, or do a nasty deed a few times in a row, and get caught, well then, you are in for a long-term trouble of mistrust, for even years of good behavior will not erase the memories of neighbors, co-workers, colleagues and members of the extended small-town family. If there is a new problem of similar nature, hey - you're the first one to be suspected! And so the storyline develops, interwoven with the more profound analysis - or, in light of what I have said above - per exemplum portrayal of the autumn of life, the often grim and miserable fate of the elderly, who are forgotten by their own families, living in solitude, in a prison of their memories, cast to the shorelands of the scarce generosity of their equally lonely neighbors, whose number is smaller and smaller every year, or left to the mercy of commercial companies. It's such a sad book, and I wish those of the younger generations who live in denial, who remove their elderly from their memories, remembering only when they have to, pitifully rationing their cowardly artificially expressed and empty love every blue moon, and even that not being taken for granted. In Anne Tyler's Baltimore, a miracle happens. A small company is instituted, when one day a middle-aged lady realizes that an enormous number of people are the castaways of the modern civilization. Although primarily operating as any other business out there, this small Rent-a-Back company is the only family for the abandoned, for the cranky, for the sweet, for the unhappy, for the despairing, for the senile, for the grandmotherly with no grandchildren to share love with. It's a beautiful book, \\"A Patchwork Planet\\" is, and thank you again, Anne, for this invaluable gift.	2002-03-25
US	36632284	R1NIQFF09HTNFF	0345311809	384709649	Shibumi	Books	5	11	19	N	N	A book for my son	It's indeed rarely that I had an opportunity to read so good a book - a novel which excels in so many aspects. \\"Shibumi\\" by Trevanian has left an imprint on my soul, being one of those books which I wish I had memorized from A to Z. I will no doubt read it many a time in future, and if I ever have a son, I will give it to him when he reaches proper age. <br />Dear son whom I don't yet have - hopefully, you will discover the beauty of the mountains and learn that the value of alpinism lies in the exploration itself, in dissolving one's soul in alpine-scented solitude, that this is one goal really worth fighting for - the virginity of the mountainous landscape, its preservation from the assault of civilization. I will give this book to you just as soon as you are ready for the seducing charms of adult literature, and will finally start to notice the difference between well-crafted book and book of profound impact and importance. I know what you will be going through, but I won't bore you with details on how exhilarating this discovery is. Time will come for you, and it's best to discover literature for oneself. Probably you will be either embarrassed by one or two paragraphs from \\"Shibumi\\", paragraphs dealing with the art of love, and the relation of the ephemeral to the carnal, as I don't doubt you will find the relationship of Hana and Nicholai quite peculiar. But son, that's just fine, for time will come for that, too, and don't you worry about it for even a moment. The seed will be planted in your young head, and with the impact this book will have on you, I can bet spruce needles against reindeer food that after several adventures with ladies, or after a decade or two, whichever comes sooner, you will recall the pair from \\"Shibumi\\", and will learn to appreciate the wisdom of the messages embedded there in so delicate a way that had eluded you before. <br />This novel has a wealth of messages waiting for you, some to be discovered at the adolescent stage, some tobe discovered many years after you enter the fully adult life with all its grim responsibilities waiting for you, and finally, some to be truly appreciated when you reach that stage of so-called middle age, when the accumulated wisdom of life will dominate your thinking, and you will no longer be fretful and as exceedingly spontaneous as you had been before. You will marry, you will enter professional relationships, choose a job for life, and I hope also travel a lot, since traveling opens the mind, teaches us to appreciate other cultures and different ways of different people. Nicholai, the protagonist of \\"Shibumi\\", was a man of no land, having accumulated what's best in a select few cultures, a man who rejected certain phenomena of life you will no doubt take for granted. As I have already mentioned, at first you will notice the obvious, the joy of pure thrill of climbing, the action-packed storyline, the peculiar relationships of Nicholai, and the infinitely strange people he chose to live amongst, the Basque. You will be no doubt surprised at the apparent venom with which Nicholai refers to various countries, America in particular, to nations, to some select individuals, and to modern trends that dominate in the world. An arrogant and critical attitude is just adequate when applied to the masses, to the average, and you will have to learn that generalization is the only way to tackle the general issues at hand, and that individuals should be treated openly, individually, warmly, whereas ideas and concepts deserve no mercy whatsoever. One of the more important aspects of \\"Shibumi\\" is that it's essential that one identifies with some culture, or tries to benefit from many, if one is capable of that; and that the real danger to one's humanity is of becoming a mongrel, a culture-less person of no moral values, or weak spine that bends to wherever the wind blows, a miserable person for whom comfort of life is more important than thinking, the eternal homeless soul. Such people are everywhere, sadly, all around us, and that's why I hope your travels, and deliberations of your own, and finally, messages contained in \\"Shibumi\\", will teach you to appreciate small nations of great tradition, the pariahs of the postmodern civilization of consumptionism. Trevanian is a brilliant, ironic and arrogant writer, and my hope is that you will be just like him and his characters - in the sense of the moral values and traits of characters, but I also hope that you will develop and cherish your own personality, treasure your uniqueness. <br />Having chosen your own path of life, I hope that at one of the later stages in your life, you will appreciate the real, philosophical content of this book, the profound ethics, the moral spine of the main character. \\"Shibumi\\" is the novel about moral choices one has to make, about honor above anything else. It's only too natural that the human being, living amongst his peers, will try to do everything to be appreciated. A man needs to be appreciated. However, I hope you will learn yourself that there are some rules to be never broken, that if there is a conflict between popularity and acceptance - and your moral values, you should not hesitate for a split second. I have always been grateful that I have had a light of principles that guided me through the filthy caves of life. I hope you will have one, too, and read \\"Shibumi\\" nodding all the time. But if the novel is an eye-opener for you, then that's just as well, for all is well that ends well, and it's never too late for improvement.	2002-03-24
US	36632284	RX9XGM2YQBOGW	067946333X	477028395	Fury: A Novel	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Hell hath no fury...	\\"Fury\\" is the newest-to-date novel by Salman Rushdie, short, neat and compact, and yet incredibly rich in detail, and setup, populated by lovable characters, but at the same time deeply philosophical with enormously influential contents, more often than not disguised within the unsaid, the context you have to be familiar with, the subtext of the grand space in-between of the actually written lines. <br />Like many other good novels, \\"Fury\\" is a treatise on humanity, disguised under the compelling storyline. The book does not consist of a single thesis the author wants to prove, as it is often the case with lesser authors, but instead much is left to our intellect, we are left alone to draw the final conclusion as we wish. What Rushdie does is pursues a set of philosophical inquiries, twists the reality, dumps the subject matter into various cultural pots of dye and solution, analyzing the issues at hand from as many perspectives as possible. Ever since homo sapiens started to meditate on the nature of the world, and the nature of the human being, it has been of utmost importance to determine what drives us to do what we do in our life, why are human actions so contradictory, or why do they seem to be such - what is the true nature of the human being. Philosophers claimed all attainable positions in this regard, and yet no definite answer has ever been posed. The point of philosophy lies in inquiry, in meditation over the profound concepts and forces, despite the fact that from the point of view of traditional physics, such deliberation is fruitless and unnecessary. Definite answers are of more use in everyday life, in business, are valued by people with the immanent nature of the merchant. Yet for all humanoids of culture, these questions and the quest for discovery constitutes the meaning of life. Rushdie theorizes on the human nature, and one by one, gives us his conclusions.<br />\\"Life is fury, he'd thought. Fury - sexual, Oedipal, political, magical, brutal - drives us to our finest heights and coarsest depths. Out of furia comes creation, inspiration, originality, passion, but also violence, pain, pure unafraid destruction, the giving and receiving of blows from which we never recover. The Furies pursue us; Shiva dances his furious dance to create and also to destroy. But never mind about gods! Sara ranting at him represented the human spirit in its purest, least socialized form. This is what we are, what we civilize ourselves to disguise - the terrifying human animal in us, the exalted, transcendent, self-destructive, untrammeled lord of creation.\\" p. 30-31<br />I am enormously pleased to say that this grim view on the human behavioral motives coincides with my own. Although ultimately the good overcomes the evil, although either extremum is rarely achieved by the human race, it's the petty evil that rules the world, dominates our actions, whether unmasked, or hidden deep below many layers of civilization superimposed on us from the birth. All that is valuable in this world is created in passion, propagated by the destructive fire of creation, the fury, the powerful furia of the human spirit. What else is love but fury? In modern times, we civilized peoples learned to stifle the fury, mitigate the burning brain, chain the wild personality. Is that it? Is it all we needed to do - to devise the instrumenta of self-bondage - to put out the furious fire of creation forever? The answer, obviously, is no. All troubles in this world, and all good things in this world as well, for that matter, stem from the fact that the powerful human spirit the destructive god of creation within us - is unbeatable, indestructible, when all is said and done. All kinds of deviations that pollute the civilization are the children of the stifled fury, when the pressure is too high to be sustained and controlled any longer. As a human race, we continue to create and innovate, because the individualistic fury of each creative human being refuses toalign itself to the chain of civilization. <br />Rushdie brilliantly elaborates on this subject, in a delightful series of philosophical inquiries, where the answer is that of a chant, coming to the reader in spasms, in waves of understanding, and all that served within a delicious mixture of prose, philosophy, ethics, and the powerful commentary on the modern age. For you have to know that \\"Fury\\" is a multidimensional novel, which is by no means limited to the heavyweight meditations. The fact is, \\"Fury\\" is thoroughly enjoyable, the characters and the events are bound to stay with the amused reader for a long time. This novel is pure entertainment. The author seems to be in the strict minority of writers who are still able to use irony and sarcasm as a literary medium. I hail you, Salman. Last but not least, Rushdie's newest novel is best proof that for him as a writer, as a human being of culture, only the sky is the limit. I dare say Rushdie is more European than many of our writers back on the Continent. Rushdie is a Great Caveman, an honorary title assigned to all writers of intellect, courage, culture and cavemanly tradition. Allah Akbar, Salman - may your inspiration never leave you.	2002-03-21
US	36632284	RYWEDWSAL5COF	0970472994	442383107	Anne Tyler: Three Complete Novels: A Patchwork Planet * Ladder of Years * Saint Maybe	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Amazing bargain	This volume is a collection of three novels by Anne Tyler: &quot;A Patchwork Planet&quot; of 1998, &quot;Ladder of Years&quot; of 1995, and &quot;Saint Maybe&quot; of 1991. Hardbound and durable, this volume is a better option for a reader who has started reading Anne Tyler, and even for the reader who already owns one or two paperbacks with novels contained in this volume. This volume is simply beautiful. Pleasant serif typeface, good, bright paper, nice cover artwork, and finally, amazingly low cost. You get three hardbound novels for a price of one paperback. In addition, all three novels of Anne Tyler belong to the more interesting subset of her literary heritage, so there is really nothing to be suspicious about here. Psst, do not tell anyone I have said that, but such bargains are possible only in North America. Nowhere else I would be able to get hold of three interesting novels combined in one hardbound volume for almost nothing. Do not hesitate, dear reader, and rush to purchase this collection. Now!	2002-03-21
US	36632284	R5NZFPXBCZ31K	1573229083	539275432	My Dream of You	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Cross-pollination of a journalist's essay and a memoir	Once upon a time, there was a middle-aged, unmarried Irish lady, who spent most of her life in London, as a journalist, working for a traveling magazine. Having severed her relationship with the Mother Country, her relatives, she drifts through life seeking happiness, and not being terribly successful in that quest. On the spur of the moment, she decides to make a substantial change in her life, and make some use of her writing abilities, and fictionalize the old story of love between an Irish pauper and an English landlady in the dark times of the famine. That story wasn't quite of the Cinderella quality, because the Cinderella himself was a man, to be sure, and second, because there wasn't really much to tell, no fairytale to expand on, and there was no happy end for both lovers. As might be expected, although not hoped for, the fictionalized romance was essentially a journalist's essay, suffering from wordiness, and skimming only the surface, despite the effort put into the retelling. I am sure that Nuala O'Faolain is a talented person, however, as this book clearly indicates, her talents lie quite elsewhere, not in mainstream fiction. She has a keen observational sense, that much is evident, however, with a scope of work as wide as this one, she somehow cannot escape the occupational hazard, and the book, or at least the relatively small part dealing with the romance is not much more than an essay, which delivers about as much essence as a long magazine article would. Famine - how much there was to tell, how much to discover, or rediscover, rather - from a new perspective of the XXI century, from the point of view of a lady of Irish heritage, who knows the ins and outs, the charms and peculiarities of the country. Unfortunately, the topic is just barely touched, as if common decency dictated to at least put a threadbare skeleton of a setup. There is not much to learn from this book in this respect. Instead, the fictionalized story of the Talbot divorce case is apure romance of the flesh, so to speak. The author is clearly interested in the carnal dimension, her writing reflects that tendency, and when all is said and done, the whole literary adventure seems to be quite bland. So many words, and so little essence.<br />Then there is the second dimension of the book, the memoir. In scattered bits and pieces, the narrator tells us the story of her life, what are the current aches and pains, with the events of the past unearthed if only to provide an explanation for the current, miserable state of affairs. The lady repeatedly tries to answer some basic set of questions, circling around and about, and finishing as confused as she started. Perhaps there is no simple answer to questions like this, so perhaps she shouldn't be blamed for not having offered us a reasonable, robust and sound explanation. Why is she alone, why there was only one person she was able to attach herself to emotionally, and in fact that man, her colleague, has never been her lover, while at the same time she never refused anyone else, who bothered to ask, or even slightly hint at? Why did she hurt everyone who loved her, where did this force come from a force that transformed her life into a series of carnal adventures, some uplifting, some grim, and some utterly forgettable, why? She does not know. I don't know either. This book is a memoir of a confused lady, that's what it is, and it's intriguing to read, no doubt, but somehow the confused state of the writer seems to be contagious. So much has been written, and as a reader, I am deeply confused. I regret that I haven't been able to extract more from this book, perhaps I am too young, and my personality hasn't evolved enough for me to be able to understand the musings and anxieties apparent in \\"My Dream of You\\". On the other hand, I have an impression that the author's attempts have turned out to be too shallow to be memorable, her quest toward discovery of what it means to be Irish is never definitive, full of slogans and stereotypes, nothing to be fond of. If you would like to read a real work on that topic, you might try Edna O'Brien or Alice Taylor, and last but not least, the great son of the Emerald Island - James Joyce.	2002-03-10
US	36632284	RPBNQCYZVSLX4	0679750185	147498198	The Cement Garden	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Plot-driven novella	\\"The Cement Garden\\" is one of the early novellas by Ian McEwan, a winner of the 1998 Booker Prize for his novel \\"Amsterdam\\". Perhaps there is a reason why this book is not as popular as it might be, given the later-day success of this writer, as indicated by the awards. \\"The Cement Garden\\" is a plot-driven story with a great potential which nevertheless has never been exploited. <br />The family of a marriage with four children falls apart when both parents suddenly die. Even here, in the very beginning of the book the storyline is unconvincing. After the father dies from stroke, the mother follows him in short order, apparently from incurable illness. In the very first chapter, the very first page even, when this information is passed to the reader - I wish the author had given some more thought to the actual events. The coincidence of their passing away is too artificial for my liking. Even the dysfunctionality of the family does not ring true. Of four children, only one appears to be sane, and what exactly is the probability that out of three teenagers and one toddler - one will turn out to be an early transvestite, and two others incestuous? The plot itself was bland, everything might be intuited right away. If only there was more to this book that the aforementioned storyline, that wouldn't hurt. Sadly, it isn't the case, as McEwan hints at the upcoming events in a bold fashion.<br />The potential of the tale was not explored, and McEwan seemed to hesitate as to the actual course of the story. Circling around the seemingly unexpected solution to the situation the four children found themselves in, McEwan never dared deliver what he undoubtedly wanted to. This novel was hailed as the second Lord of the Flies (originally written by William Golding), and it just might have been, but wasn't, when all is said and done. In the writing itself, there is no hint that the author would one day win the Booker Prize. Having just closed the last page I have not retained anymemory of anything original to the writing style of McEwan. All faults of this book combined together give an impression of a forced work, where everything seems to be stretched and artificial.	2002-03-10
US	36632284	R25STDCR0KIFWI	0140247742	270062913	Dubliners: Text and Criticism; Revised Edition (Critical Library, Viking)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Beautiful, context-difficult, yet accessible collection	I suppose &quot;Dubliners&quot; as a collection of short stories is an excellent starting point for a newcomer to the literary world of James Joyce, for several reasons. The stories are written in plain English, a statement not to be under estimated, for Joyce is known for conscious, far-reaching experimentation within the English language, which ever since has inspired critics and theorists of literature, but at the same tame presented a common reader with a real challenge, ever so more overwhelming for the native speakers, not to mention those for whom English is a second, or third language. Joyce's most known works are as hard to read as they are to translate, this being the reason why &quot;Finnegan's Wake&quot; remains one famous book which is rarely translated, and even more seldom done so with any success whatsoever. &quot;Dubliners&quot; however comes nowhere close to the later-day experiments of this author, even if stories contained therein are thematically interconnected with &quot;Ulysses&quot;. The prose is plain and captivating, often brutal, sometimes lyrical, but always dignified. Reading &quot;Dubliners&quot; is an adventure in itself, because if you happened to enter Joyce's world with the aforementioned volumes, you probably expected a similar experience. This book contains the very first literary attempts by this author, when although innovative in some respects, the stories fit well into the classical literary framework of the XIX century. Therefore, because of its accessibility, it's highly recommended to read &quot;Dubliners&quot; as your first volume by James Joyce. With this background, the ultimate task of dealing with &quot;Ulysses&quot;, for it's a battle rather, than a casual reading, as Joyce himself projected, intended, and announced upon its publication - this task shall be much easier, and for once, even the reading of the aforementioned might prove successful and satisfying. <br />The stories contained in &quot;Dubliners&quot; are intriguing mainly because of their construction. Thematically interconnected, they constitute a coherent series of snapshots of Dublin, one of the largest cities in Europe at the time, and terribly under represented in literature. Characters appear as quickly as they fade away within the space of just a few pages, for you should know that the vast majority of stories in this volume are very short. So often the short stories are misunderstood, so often readers are genuinely perplexed. Unnecessarily so, because even if we agree that a short story should be brief and to the point, it's only too difficult to conceive a small pearl, which serves as a igniting spark of imagination, leaving the reader lost deeply in thoughts, genuinely affected by the content. It's not the case that everything should be explained, that the reader should be spoon-fed with logical presentation of events and causation. It's not the case that the ending of a short story should be definitive, so that there is nothing to subtract, nor anything to add when the last page is turned over. A good short story does not end with its last page, an observation I wish shall be helpful for you in your struggle with this literary form. It need not be a struggle, shouldn't be in fact, and if reading &quot;Dubliners&quot; will help you finding the answers on your own, so much the merrier.<br />Act after act in a play, we have a unique opportunity to see the real Dubliners, of all classes, occupations, with all different histories, lifetimes, passions, all types of human failure and success, all relative, built into the rich contextual background of Dublin, the city which should have been a capital of a country that also should have been but wasn't, at least not yet. These stories are not an assault on the storyline, as one might briskly attempt to categorize; their structure is classical, and yet Joyce contributed to the literary world by pushing the frontiers of the short story, at the same time retaining thecompactness of the the contents despite of their enormous scope. It's not enough to read each story on its own, not in this volume. Although they are independent in the dimension of the storyline, the individual stories are essentially small jigsaw pieces of a puzzle; not in the sense of a greater, hidden meaning lurking there for a reader to discover, but in the sense of a multidimensional portrait of the city, the nation and its ailments, peculiarities and unique oddities. Much like Tyrmand's Varsaviana novels, &quot;Dubliners&quot; is an ode to Dublin, a city one loves so much to be sick of it, in Joyce's own words. There is a great deal to learn from James Joyce's &quot;Dubliners&quot;, if you are so inclined, and the beautiful, accessible and yet context-difficult writing makes it a thoroughly enjoyable pleasure.	2002-03-04
US	36632284	R2BRWOUPJ89C2F	1586420216	404341454	The Unknown Sigrid Undset: Jenny and Other Works	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Heartbreaking stories, masterpieces of literary fiction	I have recently bought &quot;The Unknown Sigrid Undset: Jenny and Other Works&quot; published by Steerforth Press. This volume is the most carefully edited omnibus I have ever seen. It's clear that book lovers have done their work here, people who put love for books above everything else, including strictly commercial motivations. &quot;Jenny&quot; was out of print for what - 70 years? Perhaps more. The old translation from the 1920s apparently utilized the archaic English language, and thus Undset herself had decided to take it out of the circulation. You can also find an online interview with the translator, Tiina Nunnally, who translated it anew, and learn how difficult it is to bring old Scandinavian novels back to life, so that they are accessible to the XXI century reader, and yet do not lose anything of its original charm and style. It is a noble deed, really, in this day and age - to reprint the pearls of literature and in such careful way at that.<br />&quot;Jenny&quot; is a story of a young Norwegian lady, a painter and a spinster, who remained in that state despite the fact that she was both physically attractive, and very well liked, a young persona whose companionship was sought by her peers. A small group of artistically gifted young Scandinavian people spends their summers in Rome before World War I, to remain there for a long time, only occasionally coming back to the native soil. Her observations, the observations of a young traveling woman, are full of wisdom, full of realism so much unlike the sentimental, eerie otherworldliness and nonchalance of the contemporary characters, for you have to remember that &quot;Jenny&quot; was written in 1911, when the effects of the decadent new wave in literature and culture were still strong.<br />At moments I am reminded of the atmosphere in Maugham's &quot;Of Human Bondage&quot;, the parts where Philip enters the bohemian world of the painters during his venture as an art student, but it's only a distant recollection, because Undset's novel is infinitely gentler, and the fact is, more fresh than Maugham's - and I find it much more to my personal liking than Maugham anyway. Undset is mercifully brief in her descriptions, which are devoid of ornaments, and I find that I get the picture in a much clearer way, I feel as if I were there, with them, assisting the characters from the position of a crow, sitting on a cold marble stone lion, observing everything in my omni cognitive way of a crow. Maybe it's just because I grew up in Europe, in those mossy old places, where earth gives life to small plants in-between the cracks of old carved stones and buildings, where the early old city morning is incomparable with anything you've seen or felt. <br />&quot;Jenny&quot; is a grand love story, a tragic story of a young woman who did not seek carnal pleasures, the easy-come-easy-go type of relationship that people her age seemed to enjoy. Attractive and intelligent, she was lonely, very lonely, and when she finally subsided to the impulse, the whole life has changed. With her lover, she entered the morbid world of suppressed unhealthy emotions, which he carried from home like a burden of a graveyard stone on a chest, immovable and paralyzing. The insecure man drowned Jenny in his toxic love, for love is always toxic if the object is not the other person, but he who loves, or rather claims to love. Once the young Norwegians briefly return home, we realize why he behaved as he did, and so the tragic story begins, and for the next two hundred pages a reader will be spellbound by the powerful voice of Sigrid Undset. <br />&quot;And the worst thing would be to share life with another person but deep inside feel just as lonely as before. Oh, no, no. To belong to a man, with all the subsequent types of intimacy, both physical and spiritual... and then one day to see that she had never known him, and he had never known her, and neither of them had ever understood a word the other person said...(...) So she had to try painting again. Presumably it would be an utter disaster, since she was walking around sick with love. She laughed. That's what was wrong with her. The object of her affection hadn't yet appeared, but the love was there.&quot;<br />This novel is a masterpiece of literature, and it's hard to believe that Undset was very young when she conceived this novel. Only from her letters to her longtime German pen-pal, we learn that she started writing as a very young girl, and that she devoted all her young life to writing, slaving away in an obscure office to be able to support her writing of &quot;Kristin Lavransdatter&quot;, a historical trilogy for which much later, in 1928, Undset was awarded a Nobel Prize for literature. Don't be put off just because Undset is Norwegian, and now forgotten. Her writing is wonderful, and I wish people discovered this writer anew, because she deserves recognition, but even more she deserves modern readership. Try it - you won't be disappointed.<br />Besides &quot;Jenny&quot;, the book contains also a novella, &quot;Thjodolf&quot;, and a short story, &quot;Simonsen&quot;. Both are rather depressing, to tell the truth. The latter is a story of unmet expectations and brutality of life in the turn-of-the-century urban Norway, while the former is a heartbreaking story of a woman and the adopted child. Written when Undset was just sixteen, &quot;Thjodolf&quot; is one of the best novellas I have ever read, and definitely powerful enough to shatter you to pieces. Sigrid Undset was a writer of unmatched class, and it's a pity that her works are not popular nowadays. Let us only hope that the current edition will alter that state.	2002-02-26
US	36632284	R1RTSZY1JEXW8X	0915308592	251161942	A Pagan Place	Books	2	9	20	N	N	Literary intellectual exercise, but not much more than that	&quot;A Pagan Place&quot; is one of the earlier novels by Edna O'Brien, written in 1970. Set in an unknown place in the Irish countryside, the story has no beginning, and no end, and it's quite difficult to establish what in fact constitutes the content of this novel. All dialogues are gone, for they are embedded in the narrative, so that you not always know who is saying what, with all those pronouns; for how else would you cponstruct a dialogue when you wanted to hide the attribution of what is being said and by whom? He said, she said, he noted, she noted, he said, she said, ad nauseam. If only it were clear how to attribute the reported speech, but it is not, unfortunately. Characters appear from nowhere, without any explanation as to who they are, and truth be told, it is not all clear at the end of this novel. All these effects were intended, and one might suppose that by doing this, the author wanted to force our concentration, to have our senses sharpened to the maximum. I have put quite much effort in reading this volume, which by the way took me four months to complete, and I did concentrate, but then the end result was miserable, I must say. &quot;A Pagan Place&quot; is clearly inspired by James Joyce and his stream of consciousness experimental fiction. Dialogues, thoughts, narration, descriptions are all fused together and words flow in meandering streams the directional gradient of which appears to be random. The invisible narrator refers to you personally, although the persona being spoken to is actually one of the characters. It's mightly confusing, but would be acceptable if it were the only literary experiment devoured in this book. As it is, all the aforementioned elements combined make the book hardly readable. The message, if there was any, was lost. Having arrived at the last page, I thought that if the book was half shorter, or half longer, it wouldn't make any difference whatsoever, and that is unforgivable. With a background of the story as rich as this one, O'Brien might have done much better. I guess she sacrificed everything on the altar of postmodern experimentation. All her books carry this stigma, but &quot;A Pagan Place&quot; features imbalance between traditional structure and experimentation. Therefore, reading this novel is a one-of-a-kind experience, a literary intellectual exercise, but not much more than that.rich as this one, O'Brien might have done much better. I guess she sacrificed everything on the altar of postmodern experimentation. All her books carry this stigma, but &quot;A Pagan Place&quot; features imbalance between traditional structure and experimentation. Therefore, reading this novel is a one-of-a-kind experience, a literary intellectual exercise, but not much more than that.	2002-02-24
US	36632284	R2UENEB4Q1GB83	0374283443	255713733	Victoria: A Love Story	Books	5	5	5	N	N	First love	\\"Victoria\\" is an archetypal love story for young people, one might say. Devoid of carnal connotations, the novel is an eerie, poetic portrayal of the complicated feelings of youth. The desire is never matched by the corresponding action; the lovers confused, unsure, uncertain, longing for explanation that is never offered. Torn apart by contradictory sentiments, they attract their loved ones only to push them apart when they come. \\"Victoria\\" is an astonighingly accurate account of budding sensuality and the torment of first love. So many of us have no clue how to tame the soul gone wild; whether to let oneself flow with the current, or swim backwards, against all odds - and more to the point - so many of us have no idea how to react to equally wild and incomprehensible behavior of the loved ones.<br />\\"Victoria\\" is only a minor work of Knut Hamsun, overshadowed by other novels and novellas, but after over a century, it's still fresh enough to charm the young, sensitive people. For me, the experience of rereading this novel after fourteen years feels like a postcard sent from my own self; to be read when I am old and wrinkled. Indeed, I feel like the eldest mushroom in the world, one who has forgotten the first love and how different the air smelled back then...	2002-02-23
US	36632284	RQ2CBQ8FX46SR	0316197475	606241462	Your Blue-Eyed Boy: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	On irreversible decisions - a story of passing time	&quot;Your Blue-Eyed Boy&quot; is a novel about time lost. You cannot regain the features of the body you once had, every single cell of your flesh underwent many a transformation, and more to the point, your mind has changed. Irreversibly. The past cannot be brought back, feelings, if they ever return, soon vanish under the thick layer of the present, the overwhelming mindset that had gripped you long ago and refuses to let you loose. Perhaps it's for the best, perhaps it's as it should be, for what would happen if we were able to reverse the flow of time? Would we gain as much as we think we would? The answer is yes, indeed we would come straight back to the world of lost impressions, in spite of our altered bodies. The irony is that such reversal is insane. Our ever rational mind revolts against that very idea, for everything we have now, would be lost. You cannot eat the cake and still have the cake, as they say. There is a price for everything in this world. Are you willing to make that irreversible move?<br />The life of a thirty-eight years old judge changes when she receives a call, and then a letter, and then a visitor from America, a sequence of intrusions in her steady life consisting mainly of desperate trials to make ends meet. In an instant, she travels back in time to the era when she had been just eighteen years old, a stranger in a strange land of America, where she met her blue-eyed boy. At that point you think that what you're reading is a mere blackmail thriller, but if you do, then you're deeply mistaken. The book has a barebone storyline, yes, and I strongly advise you to persevere and read the novel to its end, should you happen to have a deeply ingrained aversion to thrillers and mysteries as yours truly. Thanks Helen for small favors, the book didn't turn out to be shallow. The novel is a touching, and yet cruel evaluation of the primary truths of life, sad as they are. There are difficult choices to be made, and there is the horror of passing time we have to reconcile ourselves with. There is infinitely much more to this book than it appears from the terse descriptions, or even from what it seems to be about when you read a couple of chapters. Your &quot;Blue-Eyed Boy&quot; is a novel apt to be largely misunderstood, that seems inevitable. I might also add that those of you who like uplifting stories should better stay away from all books of Helen Dunmore. You might not endure the contents in one piece.ing time we have to reconcile ourselves with. There is infinitely much more to this book than it appears from the terse descriptions, or even from what it seems to be about when you read a couple of chapters. Your &quot;Blue-Eyed Boy&quot; is a novel apt to be largely misunderstood, that seems inevitable. I might also add that those of you who like uplifting stories should better stay away from all books of Helen Dunmore. You might not endure the contents in one piece.	2002-02-21
US	36632284	R3TI7YPPL399TP	1585671967	736542120	The Royal Physician's Visit	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Intellectual, rich and highly readable historical novel	Who might suspect that an account of Danish XVIII century history might be so fascinating! You might not be interested in the subject matter, the bit of Danish history of 1760-1784, more or less, but there are two aspects of \\"The Royal Physician's Visit\\" that one might find interesting. On the one hand, it's a creative nonfiction, since it's not exactly a fictionalized story, but the real events and personae expanded on in a readable way. On the other hand, the prose of Enquist should attract lovers of good, high-quality literature. He has his own distinct style, where even the trite sentences you find so often in pupils' compositions, fit perfectly into the framework of the narration. Devoid of linguistic ornamentation or archaisms, the book is highly readable. This, and the fact that the author magically avoided the dullness of wooden prose that so often is the case in historical fiction, or even creative nonfiction - all this is a success of Per Olov Enquist as a storyteller, who despite all odds managed to conceive a fascinating historical volume, which deserves to be widely read. Having delved deeper into the book, you will notice that Enquist quite often repeats words and sentences, introduces events briefly - to mention them a few times in the narration to fully come back to them later, when the seed of information is already planted in your mind. It's as if he worked on you, in these circular strokes of narration, to facilitate the injection of historical material, to make the fossilized historical personae more interesting, and finally, to add flavor to the story. I quickly overcame my apprehension at reading a historical book (usually, they are heavyweights), and I felt like reading a thriller, although there is no trace of conventional thrill in the book. The very first chapter reveals the end of the story, should you be unacquainted with the history of Denmark, and yet the reader's experience is that of enchantment and the nervousness usually accompanying other types of literature, where you can't wait to see what happens. Enquist keeps the fireplace of the reader's interest always full with fresh wood, from time to time jerking up the flames with balls of crumpled paper. <br />\\"The Royal Physician's Visit\\" is a multithreaded story, not only very engaging in the sense I have described above, but also because it provides an opportunity to widen the reader's horizons, to edify him, provide an incentive to search further, and finally, to make him aware of interconnected historical events of highest importance, not only from the pure historical point of view, but also from the rich, cultural perspective. You will learn that the Struensee's era of 1768-1772, the Danish Revolution in the spirit of the Enlightenment, was symptomatic for the fate of the whole Scandinavia in years to have come. At the time, the society consisted of two classes: the gentry, including the Royal Court, and the masses.<br />\\"The masses, unfortunately, don't understand the blessings of the Enlightenment. Unfortunately. For you. The masses are only interested in filth. In rumors.\\" p. 178<br />The aforementioned masses initially welcome the reforms of Struensee, especially the relaxation of moral laws and the introduction of freedom of speech - to turn against him, and thus the reforms, for the very same reason. The relationship between the Queen and Struensee is a pivotal element that might be supposed to have led to Struensee's fall, even though the masses didn't see anything wrong in their own doing. Of course, with the support of the mob, the Court opposition manages to overthrow Struensee, and revert all reforms. So much the history says. But the seed was planted, and as Enquist observes, it was not immediately clear for the cheering mob that what they wanted was really what they did want. 'Nihil novi sub sole, one might say; the mob, the society as a separate organism does not exist, or if it does, it has no brains whatsoever. <br />Again, the seed was planted, and two centuries later Denmark is in the lead in implementation of libertine ideas of freedom from anything, responsibility and morals in particular. It all started in the Struensee's era. But why did he fall? Was the coup the real reason? Listen to Enquist's account of Goldberg, the chief machinator in the Court, the insignificant one who will hold absolute power on the ashes of Struensee's reforms: <br />\\"He [Goldberg] feared that Struensee was no ordinary intellectual. But he had an inkling of what his weak point might be. Guldberg alone, from the bunk of the river, had understood. Struensee's weakness, paradoxically enough, was that he had no desire for power. His hypocritical idealism was genuine. Perhaps it was because Struensee didn't wish to be entrapped or corrupted by power. Perhaps he had renounced the great game. Perhaps he was a thoroughly pure human being in the service of evil. Perhaps he harbored a naive dream that purity was possible. Perhaps he didn't want to be sullied by power. Perhaps he might succeed at this, be able to withstand the filth of power, not kill, not annihilate, not play the great power game. Be able to remain pure. And that was precisely why Struensee was doomed to fall.\\" p. 140<br />The Danish/German reformers were in relatively close contact, direct or indirect, with the French philosophers, widely perceived as the viper's nest of Enlightened fools, or as dangerous minds, depending on the one who was frightened; Rousseau, Voltaire, Diderot. For the first time in literature, some of these philosophers entered the fictionalized account, and were waxen fossilized figures of history no more. It's a fascinating book, \\"The Royal Physician's Visit\\", very intellectual and rich, and yet very readable. The latter is of course the virtue of Enquist's literary talents, but it's also due to excellent translation by Tiina Nunnally, an acclaimed translator of Scandinavian literature. An exquisite reading.	2002-02-18
US	36632284	R1CXKC2ZOBZ3OM	0679762221	677408907	The Djinn in the Nightingale's Eye	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Mainly of interest for collectors	\\"The Djinn in the Nightingale's Eye\\" is a thematic collection of short stories and one novella, all more or less written in the fairytale convention. As a potential reader, you should be aware that this is not a regular volume by Byatt, but rather a collector's item. Snip: (...).	2002-02-17
US	36632284	R3IUSMHAW68TXT	0439113229	91753143	Brother Brother, Sister Sister	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brothers, sisters, girlfriends, bottles, diapers... poopee!	A little bit of sunshine didn't hurt anyone. I have come back to the bright days of primary school, with all those important affairs, and that indescribable feeling of being able to live forever just as I was. I preferred to read Jules Verne, \\"Three Musketeers\\", \\"Winnetou\\" or Moomins, but then I never shied away from so-called girls' books. Now I can boast myself that I read all books of the \\"Anne of Green Gables\\" series when I was small. Now, having fallen in love with Helen Dunmore's prose (I have recently read a good old fashioned novel, \\"A Spell of Winter\\", by this author), I decided to look what else she might have written. I didn't hesitate much to buy \\"Brother Brother, Sister Sister\\", since I had a hunch that it was going to be a light, bright and shiny humorous book that would take about 20 years' burden off my back. And so it did!<br />\\"(...)And I didn't really want to go out in the playground anyway, because I'm still not talking to Rachel and it's so boring, not talking to people when you have to keep remembering about it, and everybody else keeps remembering about it and giving you little looks when you go near the other person you're not talking to.<br />(...) Then I saw a flicker of Rachel's red skirt. She'd just come in with Clare to get something out of her drawer. She was not looking at me in the careful way you have to not look at people if you want it to look as if you're not looking at them.\\"<br />Wouldn't you be? Hey, if you have a daughter, she'll familiarize with Tanya, the heroine - in an instant. That book is all about daughters. What do we have here? Tanya is writing her diary, ever so seriously, and it just happened that her dad lost his job, and her mom gave birth to quads. And so the story begins. Very funny events, lots of lovable mess, and of course playground friendship tangles to untangle. Lovely book, I tell you.	2002-02-14
US	36632284	R2RUU98O1C5AJK	0439206693	455745637	Zillah and Me	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A bright, sunny book for young moose	Helen Dunmore writes lovely books for young girls, that goes without saying. Even a mushroom like the moose, ultimate or not, was fascinated enough to eat this book in one gulp with no water. If you have a daughter, especially anywhere in-between 8-13 years old, this is a perfect gift guaranteed to have your child reading madly, with her cheeks flushed and mouth slightly agape. For just a few pennies, \\"Zillah & Me\\" gave the old mushroom of a moose so much sunshine... You sure you wouldn't like to share a mysterious ride back into the times when you were a young, small mushroom?<br />Katie and her mom have to leave their house London and travel to Cornwall. A new fish in the pond, Katie half-expects to be a stranger, the new one, which everyone stares at much like a raven at a bone. However, with her sunny character, she does not give it much thought, as at present there are things that worry her much more:<br />\\"If you need the toilet you have to go downstairs, out of the back door, then down the path to the outside toilet at the bottom of the garden. Can you believe that we've come to live for a whole year in a cottage without an inside toilet? In fact there is no bathroom at all. There's a sink in the kitchen where we can wash, and a tin bath that Mom says we can fill with hot water from the stove.<br />'We'll light a fire, and have our baths in front of it. It'll be really cozy. Just imagine, Katie, a bath by firelight.'<br />Hmm. I can see that we won't be having baths too often. I think of the power-shower in our house in London and feel a pang of homesickness. My friends would kill me if they knew that the first thing I missed was the shower. But at least we've got running water, and electricity, so I can read in bed. Imagine if we only had candles... But the outside toilet is going to be a problem. The spider angle was the first thing I checked out. My findings were:<br />1. an exceptionally large black spider crouched on top of the toilet door, ready to zoomdown as soon as anyone got comfortable; <br />2. a nest of spidelings in the corner, waiting to turn into large spiders and join their mom on top of the door;<br />3. (last-minute discovery) a small brown spider with very hairy legs crouched inside the toilet roll, waiting for me.\\"<br />Katie meets Zillah, a local girl, daughter of her mom's good old friend. Initially, the girl seems to be very unpleasant, closed in her own shell, but our goodhearted Katie does not give up, being more mystified than offended, and so begins the uneasy acquintance, which over time transforms into a great friendship, cemented by a great secret the two of them share. Yes, says the old mushroom of a moose (when I was at Katie and Zillah's age, I thought the age of 30 was much like being a prehistoric fossil. Well, didn't you?), yes - that's exactly what one can expect from girls. Secrets! Always secrets, haha. The old mushroom of a moose is smiling as he writes these words, being as far from serious as he can get, for due to this lovely little book he was just transformed into a little boy, feeling the unmistakable scent of the world, the scent of childhood. Moose is an old grump - by golly, almost thirty years old, but he sure can enjoy a good, bright story like \\"Zillah & Me\\", and can only wish he had his own children to tell these stories to, or read aloud much like Katie's mom in the Cornwall cottage, by the fireplace...	2002-02-14
US	36632284	R1K63YJNJHNJEJ	0805048960	162088923	Hunters and Gatherers: A Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A pastiche on close-mindedness	\\"Hunters and Gatherers\\" is in fact a very funny way of answering a basic question: what happens if the ideas we believe in obscure our judgment, and become a prism through which everything is evaluated, and instead of being a simple flavor of life, as any opinions are, become *the* way of life. Any ideas one believes in are harmless, as long as we do not reach the point of no return, and as long as we do not stop thinking. This novel should be a must-read for all parents whose children are prone to identifying themselves with various sects, New Age in particular. Read it before it's not too late.<br />Francine Prose's \\"Hunters and Gatherers\\" is a honey for the caveman's heart. New Age and feminism take a severe beating in the novel. However, I looked around to spy a little on what else Francine Prose has written, and I was glad to see that in a way she specializes in humorous critiques of the modern-day absurdities of all types. Indeed, Prose has no mercy and ridicules the close-mindedness of the true believers of The Goddess, very adequately portraying the cosmic absurd of the malevore ways in general. <br />What's more, it is also an insight into the sects, much like John Updike's \\"In the Beauty of the Lilies\\". I was bored to tears with that last one, although I have to give Updike that he portrayed the sects and mentality of the victims quite well. \\"Hunters and Gatherers\\" sometimes raises the hair on our neck. Is it really that easy to fall prey to the New Age sect? What kind of character must one have to become a victim? If the special circumstances arise, all it takes to lose a child is a coincidence, or a minor incident, and bang, we may never see our daughter again. As comic as this book is, it is also dead serious in the background. There is no shortage of charlatans out there, and equally enough, there is no shortage of emotionally unstable people, let alone teenagers. If you have problems with your child, perhaps this book will wake you up, and throw the scales off your eyes. If you do that in time... <br />Prose is very witty and observant, and I enjoyed the book throughout, but her writing lacks that universal touch a bit, which really disappointed me. Does it sound contradictory? It really isn't.  \\"Hunters and Gatherers\\" is a thoroughly enjoyable book, in harmony with my own outlook on the malevore trends, but still, I doubt I will ever come back to this book. Why? I know the story, I had my laugh or two, but there isn't much more to this novel. Perhaps because I knew all this already... Nevertheless, this should not discourage you from reading the novel. If you haven't read any book of this type, you'll love this.	2002-02-11
US	36632284	R2FQA032HKFDVX	0451170385	887327600	Four Past Midnight (Signet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An enjoyable mix of stories	\\"Four Past Midnight\\" of 1990 is not exactly a usual short story collection, but the four seasons of novellas, just like \\"Different Seasons\\" of 1982 was, a previous volume of this type from Stephen King. Snip: (...).	2002-02-11
US	36632284	R12SV6W4RG50EA	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Newfoundland coast	\\"The Shipping News\\" is one of three novels Annie Proulx has written so far. Short stories used to be her specialty, but having read this novel, I must say that it's definitely superior to \\"Close Range: Wyoming Stories\\", a recent 1999 collection of short stories. Snip: (...).	2002-02-10
US	36632284	ROQCZ2CUUH36E	014018855X	525778194	The Captain and the Enemy (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Intriguing novel of love and its mysterious ways	One of the last novels by Graham Greene, \\"The Captain and the Enemy\\" was written in 1988, just three years before the death of the master. Although his prose is as always enjoyable, a little detached and sentimental at the same time, in the novel there seems to be an indication that Greene was aware of the shortcomings of the old age. The books is written in a form of a careless memoir with too many holes in it, no doubt intended ones, considering the contents, but now and then Greene ventures into the reflexive mode of general narration, and I couldn't help but have an impression that I listened to an old man's voice of admission. For a writer, it must not have been easy, but then Greene kept writing all his life, and virtually all of his literary heritage has been revered to this day; a wonder the man had never won the Nobel Prize for literature - another proof that one should not hold too much value in such awards. <br />In a way, \\"The Captain and the Enemy\\" is full of contradictions, whether intended or not, but on the other hand, this small book incorporates all lifelong passions of Graham Greene, where yet again he touches the multidimensional subjects of interest from yet another viewpoint. The book starts in a humorous way, to quickly transform into a good-natured and intriguing story of a small boy whose life is one great patchwork, him not having a fixed place in the world, with all family connections never materializing themselves. The mother - dead as long as he remembers; the father, or 'The Devil' as everyone is fond of saying - loses the boy in chess, or was it backgammon? The boy never seems to unveil that mystery which no one bothers to tell him. Then there is the Captain, the winner of the game, whatever it was, and his woman, Lisa. As you shall see when you read the book, there is no other way to call her, but the woman. Never in the center of the storyline, although incredibly essential for one's understanding of the novel, Lisa enters the storyas abruptly as she does exit, leaving us virtually scratching our heads. Such is the whole novel, in fact, full of mysteries, secrets, blanks spaces, only some of which shall be filled in eventually. <br />One of the greatest strengths of the novel is the portrait of the pair, Lisa and the Captain. Although Greene takes infinite care to never really show us them both, or none of them separately for that matter, it seems to me that the key to understanding \\"The Captain and the Enemy\\" lies in letting go of the reader's routine, and the yearning for the full explanation, resolution of all threads, explanation one is used to be spoon-fed with. If you accept the fact that the story leaves much to you, all of those blanks to fill in, patchwork to sew together - you are already well-prepared. However, as much as the details are important, the key is to adopt the narrator's viewpoint, or better, the Captain's, if you dare. Why did they live apart from each other all their life, and why it seemed they loved each other dearly, although there's never any real sign of it? Greene was capable of writing a great love story without having his characters ever mention the subject, nor mouth the four-letter word themselves, for that matter. So far away, and so close. <br />\\"I brought up the forbidden word. 'Does he love you?'<br />'Oh, love. They are always saying God loves us. If that's love, I'd rather have a bit of kindness'\\" [p. 84]<br />I finished this four-part novel in one day. At first I enjoyed it immensely, but as I read on, I had more and more trouble understanding its real meaning. As the book progresses, we change the scenery and land in Panama of the late 70s, where another part of the Captain's life is revealed, and the book adopts the flavor of an espionage thriller. As I closed the book, I had mixed emotions, and needed to air my head a bit to at least attempt to grasp the full meaning of this novel. Good literature makes you think, and that we can't deny Greene. Hisnovels slowly grow on you, and leave a long-lasting impression and a desire to come back, one day. Which I shall do, and I wish you the same, dear reader.	2002-02-10
US	36632284	R18KWXGOPZ0DDI	0684852225	55789944	Close Range : Wyoming Stories	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Wyoming Stories: a very uneven collection	\\"Close Range: Wyoming Stories\\" is the newest collection of short stories by Annie Proulx. With various stories written in various periods of time, Snip: (...).	2002-02-07
US	36632284	R1O86HZ1TGNDO0	0312878273	652735495	Nightmare At 20,000 Feet: Horror Stories By Richard Matheson	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent, masculine stories of sparkling, brilliant logic	\\"Nightmare at 20.000 Feet\\" is best proof that good science fiction, perhaps the best science fiction that can be written does not require ornamentation of language, flowery descriptions of mind-numbing length, artificial archaisms and myth rip-off. Snip: (...).	2002-02-07
US	36632284	R1093NJD9LEQA6	0811213218	1957091	Dreamers (New Directions Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Optimistic	What a delight this little book is! And to think that I expected Hamsun to be either experimental, or to have a heavy writing style so common among classic writers... Snip: (...).	2002-02-03
US	36632284	R2DWQLW27UKZJA	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Southern Saga	&quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude&quot; might be analyzed from various standpoints; political, sociological, historical and literary being the most prominent among them. Politically engaged literature has always been controversial, and it's much too easy to dismiss an author because of the nature of his political leanings. I don't deny that Márquez, Dostoyevsky, Bulhakov, Kesey and many other authors had a clear vision of the world, a vision they incorporated into their writing. Certainly, the political outlook and national heritage are inseparable from the particular work under consideration - but is that all there is to literature? I vehemently disagree with that point of view, since novels may be either &quot;written to order by poor hacks for the consumption of the illiterate&quot;, to quote Maugham, or they may be universal and timeless - with all shades of gray in-between, where a book stands on its own, more or less, offering us at least something beyond the overwhelming vision. Where does &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude&quot; fit into the pattern? I think it fares considerably well, considering the political burden it carries, messages it conveys. Analyzed within the larger framework of Márquez's literary heritage, the novel offers us quite much, its socialist vision notwithstanding. The times of rebellion and guerilla have passed, the soviet way of thinking, whether political or economical, went bankrupt, rendering the fire of the novel quite bland and naive, I'd say. Written in the late 60s, &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude&quot; offers us a well-written fictional documentary of the emotions and visions polluting Latin America in that decade. I have read quite a few literary accounts of these times, and &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude&quot; is the most readable of them all, since the redeeming qualities of this novel reach far beyond the political dimension. Needless to say, Márquez is guilty of various sketches of similar tone and nature,short stories and miniatures also dealing with the bankrupt socialist vision. My sound advice would be to skip all these minor works, and treat yourself to this novel, which is rich in many different ways, being as close to universal as Márquez could get in that day and age. Many years later, he wrote a delicious novel, &quot;Of Love and Other Demons&quot;, which lighter in tone than &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude&quot;, calmer, toned down, more humorous, and as deep in the analysis of the Creole society. <br />&quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude&quot; is a multithreaded family saga of the Buendia family. Abstracting from the political connotations of the novel, I was continuously amused with the particular family tradition the Buendias were fond of. Namely, all their male offspring were christened either Aureliano or Arcadio, and since the novel's plot stretches well over the century, as the title might suggest, it is indeed increasingly difficult to keep track of which particular Aureliano or Arcadio is guilty of. The generation mix in the innocent reader's mind, forcing him to go back, and who knows - even make notes? I am very fond of the Buendia family, I admit I admire Márquez's portrayal of family ties; the way they evolve in the south, in a region which is so far from anything I have ever known. If you come from the Caribbean or the Latin America, it will all sound familiar, but to the Hyperborean moose it's fascinating. The southern saga is enchanting because of the distinctive voice of Márquez, whose observational skills and his ability to retell the family stories with their atmosphere preserved even under translation - are of the highest order. As much as I disagree with him with respect to his vision and sympathies I have mentioned in the introduction to this review, I give him due credit for the apotheosis of the Latin American tradition and culture. Reading &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude&quot;, we grow increasingly attached to the Buendiahomestead, mourning along with the author; mourning the passage of time, the disintegration of family ties, the wretched fate of the homestead, the lost lives of the serial protagonist, as emphasized by the reincarnation of Aureliano and Arcadio. Each generation of Aureliano and Arcadio, if you allow me to use this blatant metaphor, is progressively less attached to the land, to the culture, and increasingly engaged in affairs external to the local village, the cultural roots, as they were. Márquez finds himself missing the good old times - and honestly, he can't be blamed, as this phenomenon is universal. As different as we are, the nations scattered all over globe, we seem to follow different, divergent paths which nevertheless carry us towards the unknown which is not necessarily better than where we used to be. Indeed.<br />On a personal note, I discovered Márquez thanks to one particular relationship I was once involved in. My muse at the time has a great influence on my reading patterns, and despite my enormous reluctance towards Latin American literature, I picked Márquez, and since then have devoured his prose to my satisfaction. Weird as it may sound, I associate Márquez with winter, with frosted glass of the window, with the puffy bed, where I was hiding from cold, reading Márquez, now and then stopping to look outside the window, into the frozen landscape of the city. I feel so, because that was my life, an important moment in it, and thus it's my own, private Márquez, one which I am reluctant to share with others.	2002-01-30
US	36632284	R11H7EQBFKKGVP	0802138764	548911824	A Spell of Winter: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A long sought treasure of a novel...	&quot;A Spell of Winter&quot; is an old-fashioned novel, where once again the flow of narration charms us in an instant, and we are carried off into the nineteenth century English countryside, and enter the small world where Catherine's life undergoes a transformation. It's a small world, for the story evolves around the house, a family mansion of the Allens, a dysfunctional family we grow to love as pages turn around and about. The novel is a pleasure to read, bu all accounts. beginning with an old-style clear typeface, beautiful dust jacket, well-bound hardcover, and ending with the characters, the frozen setting and dusty mysterious atmosphere of the storyline. Helen Dunmore is virtually unknown in America, perhaps because only recently the audience had the chance to discover her works. I am happy that I found A Spell of Winter sue to seemingly random book search patterns I have. Having read thousands of books, I have developed a sort of intuition which whispers in my ear: that's the one! I have bought Helen Dunmore's novel trusting my intuition, and having just finished it, I would like to make a heartfelt recommendation for fellow old-fashioned bookworms like yours truly. The novel is engaging, never dull, the writing style is unique, impossiblt to compare with anyone else's, the narration is soft, dreamilke, and even very topics which others would have found difficult, if not impossible to write about, were touched here with infinite gentleness, like a womanly barely audible whisper, a story told intimately, reserved for your ears only, in confidence of an embrace, in a small room of an old house lit only by a weak yet cheerful candle. I am sure some of you have lived through this; listened attentively with love when the dearest significant other opens her heart; slowly and gradually unfolding the most important tale of personal life. Have you? &quot;A Spell of Winter&quot; is the confession, such confession, this particular confession that makes you slightlytremble all along, while you are aware of both the intimacy and the importance of the moment. It might have been a diary. Yes, it might have been, but then it wouldn't have been as good as it is. Brilliant dialogues, where there is no word lost, or added beyond what is needed, devoid of ornaments, and yet beautiful in its simplicity. I have fallen in love with the voice of Catherine, the charming protagonist of the novel. Eccentric and feminine, Catherine unveils the mystery of her spectacular girlhood in the family mansion. One might say that whoever else tried to touch that subject, would definitely fail, having trivialized it, trampled over with some superimposed vision, where we would have no choice but to follow the interpretation served us by the author. Dunmore allowed us to follow the events, as they came, with her exquisite prose carrying us like the dolphin over waves, in a twirl, leaving it for us to ponder about. There is not a single artificial moment in the book, and boy, wasn't that easy to commit! Dunmore has class and grace, and I am sure that whatever she chose to write about, she would do that with her unique, delicate strokes of feather, leaving you amused, sighing, longing to enter her fictional world without a second look back. I didn't want the novel to end, nor did I want any of the chapters to end. Each page is like a lyrical poem; a poem written for you and you only. It's a rare feeling, you know?<br />&quot;A Spell of Winter&quot; is the most beautiful novel I read in many years, and I will not exaggerate if I claim that it's place is among the notable books of the XX century. I will come back to this book many times in future. Rarely indeed I feel like starting to read all over again when I have just only finished. When a novel ends like this one, you just can't help but sigh and take a long walk. Reality is too much to bear. A tale of passion, tradition, youth, wasted lives, redemption, forgiveness, family ties, abandonment, eternal love, and the unbreakable spirit. I discovered Helen Dunmore and I couldn't have been more happy. I have written this review to share my impressions with you, dear reader. &quot;A Spell of Winter&quot; - a small diamond you will want to keep close to your heart, and take with you everywhere, with that 'specific gravity of smile' on your face...	2002-01-28
US	36632284	R2915CJVMIC88M	0670272663	734693861	Different Seasons	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Superb collection of mainstream novellas	&quot;Different Seasons&quot; is a collection of four mainstream novellas written between 1975 and 1982. As the author admits, after a huge novel he felt a need to write a small-form novella, which nevertheless might be considered a novel at a stretch of imagination. King repeated the experiment 8 years later, publishing another collection also consisting of four novellas, a collection handsomely entitled &quot;Four Past Midnight&quot;. Both volumes are proof that King feels right at home with about any literary form, including novellas. That's a rare phenomenon among the writers, which only contributes to the overall high opinion of Steve King as an omnipotent author. All four novellas included here are uniformly strong; some claim that this volume represents about the best that King can master. Whereas one might argue as to whether this is the number one book among those written by this prolific author, one can't really deny that &quot;Different Seasons&quot; may be placed somewhere at the very top of his abilities. <br />The first novella, 'Rita Heyworth and the Shawshank Redemption' has been hailed as a stunning literary achievement of Stephen King. Indeed it is, for we may say that it was the first work of that author that finally showed that he was capable of writing a good story in virtually any genre. More than that, as he steadily wrote and published the novels, we learned that his works are in fact genreless, that most of them are universal and timeless, since they carry messages that appeal to all generations, and will continue to do so in a hundred years as well. Moreover, over the years King became the author who most contributed to the Americana thread in the literature of the XX century. His portrayals of the society, especially the small-town, close-knit neighborhoods, is yet to be matched by anyone. The main strength of his works is the actual story, whatever it is about. In 'Shawshank Redemption', King portrays the wasted life of a businessman whohad been unjustly sentenced for life on account of his assumed guilt in the slaughter of his wife and her lover. I have never read as good an account of life in prison, and one cannot overestimate the burden that the awareness of the whole life to be spent in a box has on the inmates. First, one hopes, then one protests, then one fights with the grim reality and slowly gets adjusted to the ordered life in prison. Then one becomes an institutional man. No one hopes for too long. Only one man hoped all the time. The banker. As you will see, the novella is an apotheosis of the spirit. Hope springs eternal.<br />The second novella, 'Apt Pupil', was adapted to silver screen a few years ago, just like 'Shawshank' was, but for those of us who read the book, it was a bitter disappointment. Almost identical, it completely changes the ending, adding a soppy happy end to provide a false feeling of &quot;redeeming quality&quot; for those who can't cope with reality and need artificial sugar no matter what. King wrote a story about a young man who becomes slowly fascinated with an old national socialist, a German commander of the concentration camp whose identity the boy discovers by accident. King hypethesizes on the effect that brutality and real horror might have on a young personality. The conclusion King draws is a clear one. The young admirer becomes the one he admired. The novella ends in a bloodshed, and what we get with the movie adaptation is a silly teenagerish story. The moral messages of King were trivialized, trotted over, ignored. That's unforgivable. If you haven't seen the movie and haven't read the novella, I strongly advise that you buy the book and pass on the adaptation.<br />We are then treated to the longest, third novella in the collection, 'The Body'. A prelude to a work much larger in both scope and size, It, which King wrote between 1981 and 1985, The Body is a story of friendship between a bunch of schoolboys. It's a story of preadolescent boys whoselives are transformed by a supposedly minor event. The world looks much different when you are a young lad, and there is nothing that beats discovering the world's mysteries with best friends. This world undergoes a major change and the point of this long story is to emphasize that at that moment of change, it's important to catch the moment, realize what is just going to happen, come to temrs with it, yes, but also preserve what is of value in the outlook on the world we are about to lose forever. The bottom line is that with the perspective of dull, unimaginative life of an adult, we should try to preserve the appreciation for fantasy we used to have, the belief that everything can happen, that cheerful naivete of young days. <br />The book ends with 'The Breathing Method', is a haunting old-fashioned tale in a tale. Elderly ladies and gentlemen meet regularly in a club, where each time a different life story is told. The main tale seems to have much in common with the classic occult story, &quot;The Omen&quot;, and the determinacy of events. The point made is that some events are not to be changed, we can't escape our fate. 'The Breathing Method' is very old-style and those of you who are fond of XIX century mysteries, will appreciate it even more than I did, and I admit I felt completely captivated.	2002-01-20
US	36632284	R1O4A9R3P4XKD6	074352005X	989781532	LT's Theory of Pets	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Humorous tale	Stephen King is fond of experimentation with media, indeed. He was about the first major author who released his works only in an audiobook form back in 1999.	2002-01-15
US	36632284	R11QKZ01K1ZJEN	0140236015	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest: Revised Edition (Critical Library, Viking)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Timeless, universal classic	The Viking Critical Library edition of Ken Kesey's &quot;One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest&quot; is worth every cent of its price, not that it's a high one anyway. The page count is double that of the novel, and what you get in this excellent edition, is a preface, a short biography, and a plethora of literary criticism, a very exhaustive collection, ranging from forgettable, strained and biased work to brilliant criticism. It's not just a novel, it's a compendium you get for a price of one. I strongly recommend this particular edition of the novel, and would encourage you to keep an eye for other volumes published by the Viking Critical Library.<br />Kesey was not appreciated after his first novel, &quot;One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest&quot;. His later novels and stories received abysmal reviews at the time of publication, his life was widely perceived as wasted. In fact, with &quot;The Electric Kool-Aid&quot; Tom Wolfe summarized Kesey as a one-note, one-novel author. Since when quantity is equivalent with quality? The same statement can be made of Joseph Heller and Harper Lee. The latter didn't even try to write more than one novel he published! I claim that that particular novel of Ken Kesey earned him the place in the timeless literary pantheon, that it immortalized the author, and whether or not his fiction of the latter day is redeemable, is a secondary issue, almost irrelevant, I'd say.<br />&quot;One Flew Over Cuckoo's Nest&quot; is indeed a universal novel. Many circles, political movements, ranging anywhere from anarchist and socialist to conservative and libertarian - tried to assimilate Kesey into their ideology, into their vision, whatever that was. A good piece of literature is universal, timeless, with redeeming features that are always true (or untrue, for that matter), whenever they are read, and if they contribute to the reader's development regardless of their generation. &quot;One Flew Over Cuckoo's Nest&quot; was one such book - it dealt with universal truths, with the basic premise of life - that we should be free, no matter what, that if once depraved of dignity, we can't regain it back, and then it's not worth continuing afterwards, that it's a once-only gift from heavens. We can also self-depreciate, too - as an aside note. <br />A very strong moral message the novel conveys is the opposition of the individual and the society. In a way, Kesey's book is similar to John Kennedy Toole's &quot;The Confederacy of Dunces&quot;, where a similar point is raised. &quot;One Flew Over Cuckoo's Nest&quot; is an apotheosis of personal freedom, and a warning against the tendencies evident in modern societies. A free individual is disengaged from the society, although coexisting with it on a daily basis. Exactly this point provides a wide arena for interpretation, and if you enjoy analysis of this type, you will definitely appreciate Penguin's critical edition - for there's much material that will satisfy your curiosity, if need be.<br />Abstracting from that usual tendency to stress the individual-system opposition presented in the novel, I think that one of the main threads of interest, for me at least, is the keen observation Kesey makes about the human nature. If given the chance, the animal creeps out from us, and goes wild. No matter how civilized we are, it's always there, lurking. Also, we have oceans of cruelty in us  maybe not all of us - but a vast majority definitely do. Where we differ - is the degree. Life is not black and white, but grey, all shades of grey. If given the sufficient opportunity, we shall turn against our brethren. I believe in this, and Kesey seems to have at least hinted at that. I won't make a prolonged philosophical digression, although that's the proper playground here, but I do think that we are essentially bad, evil, primitive, with a good side to us, which is like a self-conscious and often automatic chain that holds us in place. Religions superimposed the idea of temptation over that basic premise, and where religions differ is the actual interpretation of symbols. What I find of more value as a lukewarm believer, is the caveman sub-layer of our human nature. Evil and good are not balanced. The former is kept like a genie in a bottle, the more we are civillized, the more so. it is not equilibrium. And from time to time, the evil creeps out, or, rather, bursts out, and then there's trouble. Some people feel right at home with their real nature, and thus are more adept at obtaining the equilibrium. Often devoid of empathy, they execute their wishes if given the chance, and they do so more efficiently than the rest of us - precisely because they are more balanced. I keep coming back to Kesey's Nurse Ratched. If I were to characterize her in one word only, use only one adjective, I'd choose &quot;unemphatic&quot;, if there's such a word.<br />&quot;One Flew Over Cuckoo's Nest&quot; is a novel that gives food for thought. It will last you for days, months, or even a lifetime, along with a few other giant works of the XX century. Irrespective of his career of the later day, Kesey is immortal precisely because he conceived that universal novel which gives rise to so many interpretations, is such a fertile work of one man's imagination. And that in addition to the actual excellent storyline! Kesey was a giant for me. May he be blessed with peace forever.	2002-01-15
US	36632284	R260KKAXP0LGOT	059513534X	932371464	Freezing Tillie: An Alliance of Strangers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Notable debut	In summary, this debut novel is a very readable story, one which you'll most likely storm through, but it is also a notable book to which there is more than seems to be at the outset.	2002-01-15
US	36632284	RJN2U9RTOU6PZ	0312105606	605777182	To School Through the Fields: An Irish Country Childhood	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Warm tales	What a delight this little book is! Within the space of only 151 pages of standard typeface, Alice Taylor has told many a tale, charmed us with her warmhearted stories from her childhood.	2002-01-02
US	36632284	RL5TZZN02Z98K	0452280508	424198943	Mother Ireland: A Memoir	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Heritage	This is my second book by Edna O'Brien, and it only confirmed my high opinion of this talented writer. Snip: (...).	2001-12-23
US	36632284	R1SM9LTDVEPTVR	0312421117	259015169	Elegy for Iris	Books	5	21	21	N	N	"But where the dead leaf fell, there did it rest"	(...) I have been interested in Iris Murdoch for a long time, not really having a clue as to what her novels might be like, what I should expect from her; should I steel myself and keep guard, or quite to the contrary - open the door to her literary world and let myself immerse in it completely. As is consistent with my long-standing ritual, I approach the writer from unusual angles - this has certainly been the case with Iris Murdoch. Instead of listening to friendly spirits telling me this and that, I acted spontaneously, and started my exploration from a postmortem memoir written by her husband, John Bayley. Exploration it shall be, for having read this volume, I am absolutely certain to release the internal guard, and open the door to the unknown world of Iris.<br />\\"CLOSER AND CLOSER APART\\"<br />The memoir is an elegy for Iris, and it is not a typical biography, for it is written by her husband, with whom she spent over forty years together. Just like their marriage was, the introduction of Bayley to Iris was awkward, and I couldn't help but smile at Bayley's admission to his shortcomings as an admirer of Iris back in the fifties. Romantic at heart, helpless in practice, Bayley manages to attract Iris, and the story is indeed enchanting, even if told with such a burden of perspective of what happened later, or rather, just as he was writing the memoir. As is often the case with academics, they live in an unreal world of unmet expectations, sharpened visions and blurred emotions. Such was Iris; such has been Bayley. Every now and then the romantic and yet very earthly story of their early years and then marriage is interrupted with the present day reality of Iris terminal case of Alzheimer's disease. Interrupted, yes, but never disturbing. Bayley bravely relates the intrinsic features of living with Iris, as she slowly descended into memory oblivion, to her personal character traits as they became progressively apparent to him as they got used to each other. Getting used to it took a lot, as it happens with extraordinary minds that met each other in life. In great detail Bayley describes how apart they were during their marriage, and how much they both needed that apartness for their marriage to work properly. If you are looking for a detailed study of Iris Murdoch as a writer, with equally detailed account of her life, you might consider reading Peter Conradi's newest biography of the author. What that biography, or for that matter, any biography written by a stranger, will never give you, is a personal commentary on the internal life of the couple. Not surprisingly, there goes a saying that what other people do not know about your marriage is exactly what makes it yours. John Bayley raises the curtain a bit for us to see something we otherwise wouldn't have been able to see. And what we see is astonishingly consistent, albeit compact set of observations, recited in reserved tone. Let me only say that Bayley took a lot, accepted much, disregarded even more as a man, as a husband. Perhaps it takes a bird of a feather to flock together in a marriage like this? That I do not know, as much as I would like to, being an academic myself. Maybe just one discovers it for himself. In any case, being apart brought them close together, and that's what counts. A line from John Bayley is due here: \\"you can live with someone for years, and not feel in the least married\\".<br />\\"WHERE DO WE GO NOW?\\" \\"WHERE DO WE GO NOW?\\"<br />I have read many accounts of Alzheimer's disease, but I have never seen an account as personal and truthful as this one. Usually, out of respect for privacy, or lack of words in grief, those close to the victim give way to their grief and misery in writing, showing compassion and understanding, while avoiding the true nature of life with the victims. That of course is understandable and perhaps expected, therefore I was increasingly astonished of the direction Bayley took in his \\"Elegy for Iris\\". As much as words candescribe our pain, our love, our compassion and all other feelings, there is nothing like the reality, if shown just as it is. That is what Bayley had done in this book. That is what makes it stand out. Speechless, I followed the events from their married life, as told by Bayley in an offhand tone. The book is divided into two parts, \\"Then\\" and \\"Now\\". While in the former the storyline of their life is seamlessly interlaced with the present morbid circumstances, the latter part is a diary, and where page-by-page we are struck with naturalistic account of the everyday struggle. It was as much Bayley's struggle as it was Iris's, if not more. Whereas the beginning of the terminal illness is a shock to all parties, it does bring a blessing in the long run in the form of oblivion. The more developed the case, the less the victim suffers as it is. I was touched by the author's graphic admission to anger, irritation and even rage. Graphic; not only because of the detailed description of the irritatingly recurring events, but also because of the portrayal of the corresponding emotions - I probably won't forget as the helpless husband saw his purple face in the mirror. His helplessness, anger and love - all of those thoroughly mixed, cemented together in those last months of Iris Murdoch's life. Their life in those times underwent a profound change, where their life's maxim was completely reversed in meaning. \\"Now I feel us fused together. It appalls me sometimes, but it also seems comforting, reassuring and normal.\\" These are about the most sincere words that I have heard spoken. (...)	2001-12-17
US	36632284	R3OP65K1GJBYDS	3251000160	687757695	Eristische Dialektik, oder, Die Kunst, Recht zu behalten: In 38 Kunstgriffen dargestellt (Haffmans' helfende Hand-Bibliothek) (German Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Eloquent preesentation of the logic of discussion	The book is very small and short, but it contains a wealth of information. After a brief introduction, spiced with ancient Greek terms, you are welcomed to the eloquent presentation of over twenty basic methods of discussion. Schopenhauer is objective; he does not claim what is ethical or not, he presents all methods per se, leaving it to you to figure out what is morally acceptable or not. After all, sophistry is as ancient as discussion methods, and should you decide to argue for the sake of argument, this book will definitely be of reference to you. In a similar vein, if you would like to know what techniques are used against you, and how to prevent them, you will learn that studying this document will make you a stronger discussant, as he is stronger who understands more and who is aware of what he is getting into. The only English translation (done in the 1890s) of &quot;Die Eristische Dialektik&quot; by the German XIX century philosopher, Arthur Schopenhauer - is buried deep in some libraries, practically a rare bird. I believe it's the earliest compact document of this type, and certainly it's the first one ever that categorized and identified the discussion methods.<br />This small book serves also as an instructional booklet for the uninformed. It's definitely better to avoid using terms we do not understand, than misuse them in ignorance. The public is rarely aware of the difference between &quot;argumenta ad hominem&quot; and &quot;argumenta ad personam&quot;. I have time and again seen outspoken individuals be confused over terminology throughout my life, so I thought it would be useful to clarify two notions often mistakenly interchanged in speech or writing. Once can learn it elsewhere, but why not take the Meister Schopenhauer book in hand?<br />&quot;Argumentum ad hominem&quot; - argument referring to person's background, to his or her expressed views, and not strictly to the pure general issues under discussion. Example: &quot;Since you haven't traveled to Tibet so far, you most probably are not aware that Tibetans do not eat rice as their primary source of nutrition, but they eat wheat instead&quot;. <br />&quot;Argumentum ad personam&quot; - usually negative (although not necessarily) argument referring to the personal features of the adversary. Example 1: &quot;Your arguments, Socrates, are as filthy as your personae&quot;. Example 2: &quot;This congressman looks like a real statesman. I trust him and accept what he says&quot;.<br />As we see, the latter is the subset of the former, i.e. every argumentum ad personam is an argumentum ad hominem, but not every argumentum ad hominem is also an argumentum ad personam. What's the usual confusion? People use these two terms interchangeably, which is incorrect. Argumenta ad hominem can be very balanced, informative, and useful in discussion, while argumenta ad personam do not contribute to the discussion, and most likely are of negative nature.<br />Some of the methods analyzed and exemplified in this book, beyond the already described, are: Generalization, Ex Homonymia, Sophisma a dicto secundum quid ad dictum simpliciter, Pro-Syllogisms, False Theses, Petitio Principii, Socratic Queries, Enraging the adversary on purpose, Masking moves, Fight fire with fire, Induction, Comparison &amp; Labels, Argumentum ad absurdum, Argumenta ad hominem &amp; ex-consessis in queries, Double meaning and homonyms, Mutatio controversiae, Relativity &amp; Moral Relativity, Fallacia non causae ut causae, Sophismata, Reverse petitio principii, Exaggeration, Apagoge &amp; fabrication of consequences, Exemplum in contrarium - Instantia, Retorsio argumenti, Achilles heel, Argumentum ad auditors, Diversion, Argumentum ad verecundiam, Apparent self-depreciation intended to humiliate the adversary, False categorizing, Methodological confusion over empirical and theoretical aspects, Ignoring rational arguments of the adversary - the method of silence, Motivation, and finally the Flood of useless information.<br />Having read this book, you shall be intellectually richer, and less addled in discussions with experienced adversaries. This book also offers an insight into the moral nature of humans. To what ends shall we go to achieve our goals?	2001-12-06
US	36632284	R1NXUN2VRH30GT	1572160489	36850031	Memories of Marbacka	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wonderful Childhood	One might wonder what constitutes a good memoir. With biographies, it is usually the case that the biographer focuses on the details of the subject's life, trying to provide the reader with as much information as possible.	2001-11-25
US	36632284	R17AT5UVJTYZ5X	0521280311	856469110	001: The Methodology of Scientific Research Programmes: Volume 1: Philosophical Papers (Philosophical Papers Volume I)	Books	5	19	26	N	N	Methods of Scientific Research	Philosophy of Science is a crucial subset of philosophy, since it directly affects scientific research. We need to know what constitutes a properly constructed theory, and more to the point, which claims are not theoretical, or perhaps not even scientific. With that goal established, we need to know how to empirically verify the theory in question. Theories are developed within axiomatic systems, are based on assumptions, and present us with a compact thesis, or a set of theses. A theory is scientific if we can falsify it with empirical data. If a theory is not testable, then it is not a good theory, since we cannot accept or reject its propositions. An obvious point is to be raised here - when and under which conditions shall we reject a theory?<br />Methodological studies flourished in the XX century with the works of Karl Popper, Milton Friedman, Imre Lakatos, Harold Kuhn, Paul Feyerabend and other philosophers. The contribution of Imre Lakatos was significant. With his version of corroboration and refined fascificationism we were able to apply new standards towards the methods of rejection of scientific theories. A single rejection of the scientific theory is not likely to falsify it, unlike advocated previously. However, the main point is that while the absolute truth is always of importance, i.e. whether a given theory is considered &quot;true&quot; because we have not been able to negatively falsify that theory; it is more important that various theories can be compared to each other, even if they are all imperfect. To this end, we can specify a set of thresholds, and say that a research programme A is more empirically valid than a research programme B if it does withstand a larger number of empirical tests. Of course, as simple as it sounds, it is a useful method of evaluation of theories, and can be augmented as needed within a given science.<br />Philosophy of Science and methodology is of utmost importance to theorists, since more often than not, nonscientific methods of theory construction are used, and even worse, empirical data are inductively used to hypothesize about the causes for the pattern of these data. It's methodologically invalid and by construction, these theories are not falsifiable since they are derived from data. This is true especially within economic theory; labor economics and macroeconomics in particular.<br />The works of Lakatos are summarized and condensed in various descriptive volumes on the Philosophy of Science, however it is illuminating to read the original works of this ingenious philosopher, since by doing so you gain an additional layer of understanding. <br />I will not go as far as saying that it should have been a must reading for any scientist, since such proposition would be hardly realistic, but I will say that it is a treat for those who have already tasted methodology in a compact form, and would like to expand their knowledge.	2001-11-25
US	36632284	R1IFNU2CFFJU52	0452280516	718160644	Time and Tide	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Emotional	\\"Time and Tide\\" is an excellent literary novel, very emotional in style and essence. I was deeply touched by this book, and I am very grateful to one of my friends for recommending me Edna O'Brien as an author. Snip: (...)	2001-11-06
US	36632284	RA90CB2PS8MZA	0898863619	927458696	The Ascent of Everest	Books	1	1	12	N	N	The soldier's idea of a book	\\"The Ascent of Everest\\" is an enormous disappointment as a book, which was meant to introduce the reader to the mystery of the Mount Everest conquest in 1953, as written by the expedition leader. Snip: (...)	2001-11-05
US	36632284	R1GYAF5O3NJ4VG	0880016078	874398137	The Essential Tales Of Chekhov	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Russian short stories	In his writing, he was able to capture the feel and atmosphere of the Russian village, country, and the Russian soul. Snip: (...)	2001-11-04
US	36632284	RL0B51YKBR3FG	0312186967	776066517	Publish and Perish: Three Tales of Tenure and Terror	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Academic Satire	\\"Publish & Perish\\" by Professor Hynes is a collection of three interconnected novellas. Whereas other authors often write according to the expectations of the public, James Hynes discovers new lands, and is not afraid to paint the world as it really is. Snip: (...)	2001-11-03
US	36632284	R104V6B1JQ0UM3	1931313644	867479683	Arch of Triumph	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Wartime Love Story	\\"Arch of Triumph\\" by Erich Maria Remarque is a wartime love story. This is the classic love story and anyone who reads it, will never forget it for the rest of her or his life. Snip: (...)	2001-10-29
US	36632284	R2F92PRK7DDX2J	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Insight on memory in an appalling packaging	Dreamcatcher is one of his recent books written right after the near-fatal accident where Steve King presented a very interesting concept on how our brain works. Good, if not for the appalling packaging. Snip: (...)	2001-10-28
US	36632284	RG4MADPIRP3TE	0679442006	63274353	This Cold Heaven: Seven Seasons in Greenland	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lyrical	\\"This Cold Heaven\\" is a mesmerizing patchwork of personal traveling account of a writer dedicated to the frozen land of Greenland, anthropological survey augmented by the historical flashbacks to the times of the land's discovery. Snip: (...)	2001-10-28
US	36632284	RWEZNP1FY73OY	0140298339	597004632	Before You Sleep	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very good debut book	I would encourage anyone who is interested in Scandinavia - to grab this book as soon as possible. It's a nice complement to the serious literature from this region. Snip: (...)	2001-10-15
US	36632284	R2YN3QQPF0M78A	155704256X	652561673	Dad: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Underestimated book	This is a book that makes you think, the characters are not described within a few lines, divided into good and bad, like it's so often true in books selected for clubs across the country. Snip: (...)	2001-10-09
US	36632284	R1YSFUYDINUN2K	067976223X	964654633	The Matisse Stories	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Gentle stories of admirable detail	This tiny collection of three short stories by A. S. Byatt is a very light reading to be completed within one hour, preferably while taking a sun-bath with an ice-cream ready for casual consumption. Snip: (...)	2001-10-09
US	36632284	RRTJDKBWD2U8T	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Knee-slapping hilarious - Commedia del Arte	A concept novel, thought out in every single detail. The thematic flow is compact - closed and bounded. Snip: (...)	2001-10-03
US	36632284	R3AM0MAX7SZI9F	0385199570	825352881	The Stand: The Complete and Uncut Edition	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Apocalypse Now	\\"The Stand\\" discusses a few essential topics for the human race in the 21st century. Despite the complexity of our societies, or maybe just because of it, we face an immediate danger of extinction as a species. Snip: (...)	2001-09-22
US	36632284	R31F64JP75KRDO	0140185224	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Emotional kaleidoscope	This is a very long novel; it does not feature too many dialogues, nor does it have any action that would be faster than an angry turtle. Snip: (...)	2001-09-21
US	36632284	RHWJFU2KWZ40U	0140291091	459703484	The End of the Affair (movie tie-in)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Before and after the one and only Love of a Lifetime	I was impressed by the essence content of this very short book. I have never made as many notes from other books as I made from \\"Affair\\". Snip: (...)	2001-09-20
US	36632284	R39EFKE42TAL0I	8310074913	825158967	Bromba i inni (Polish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very original book, both in concept and the subject matter	\\"Bromba i inni\\" is one of the most interesting little books for children. A distinguished theatre director and writer has written only three books for children which immediately achieved the position of classics. Snip: (...)	2001-08-22
US	36632284	RYKTSNUYKTKU3	051013081X	130649556	Who Will Comfort Toffle? (English and Swedish Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of my earliest memories	The shortest book by Tove Jansson constitutes a minor item in Her bibliography, but as they say, \\"small is beautiful\\". This miniature is poetry in its shining best. One of the best love stories I have ever read. Snip: (...)	2001-08-01
US	36632284	R19ZLVZWWXX150	0872204529	616244485	What Is This Thing Called Science?	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Start right here	This small book by Alan Chalmers is a very good introduction to the Philosophy of Science. It offers not only a well-written and concise overview of the main methodological trends and schools of thought, but it also contains a good discussion of peripheral issues, like relativism and rationality, objectivism, individualism, etc. <br />The fact that this is the easiest book on methodology ever written does not mean it's accessible to all readers. Some background of college type is necessary, for the reasoning is deductive and implies at least basic knowledge of Logic and the fundamentals of hard sciences. Still, if you want to read Feyerabend, Kuhn, Lakatos or Popper, you should start right here.	2001-08-01
US	36632284	RM2G6X6UG1KZO	0312204426	66792691	The Wild Colonial Boy: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Ulster	James Hynes's debut novel is a political thriller set in the British Isles. Like all his books, it's a swift read with a perfect balance between dialogues, description and commentary. Snip: (...)	2001-07-31
US	36632284	R26YHOT5KDDJ7K	0898867789	892134820	Conquistadors of the Useless: From the Alps to Annapurna	Books	5	2	11	N	N	The Man in Full	The book is a treasure for the conquistadors of the useless, and I am one of them. Snip: (...)	2001-07-27
US	36632284	R2NAYRBZE720IO	0027897508	506402230	Journey With Grandmother	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Not only for small Vikings	This is one of the short books which can be read to a child in every circumstance. The appropriate age is 4-12. SNip: (...)	2001-07-27
US	36632284	R7C69CHPC6UB8	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Sahib's India	\\"The Passage to India\\" is a classic novel on India written by a British author. The perspective is thoroughly that of a colony, while the distribution of sympathies is irrelevant for this statement. Snip: (...)	2001-07-27
US	36632284	RYDA7YIBAPUWQ	0006514952	844571296	Of Marriageable Age	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Straight to your heart	When a Man of the West opens the book and tries to make a dent in it, hard time may come. Writing is so different, so slow, seemingly detached, Orient-scented and full of meditation. Snip: (...)	2001-07-23
US	36632284	R2AYBGAP4THT8Y	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Pulp fiction thriller	&quot;Cujo&quot; is one of the very few novels by Steve King that are solely plot-oriented. The dog-gone-rabid frame is perfect for a short story, yet it can hardly suffice for the backbone of the three hundred odd page novel. In a failed attempt to rescue the novel from being sketchy, the author introduces us to the silhouette lives of a few characters. Still, precisely because the characters are cartoonish, and because the stories and subplots are detached, they seem somehow redundant, pasted in, glued to the dog-gone-rabid skeleton of the novel. In effect, what we get is an inferior Koontz-like &quot;thriller&quot; that is half a bore, and half an artificially inflated short story. Everything that happens (or does not happen for that matter) in the book serves one purpose only - to justify the &quot;climax&quot; situation. I am not going to point out all weaknesses of the construction, like the empty notion of cheating wife presented as a bare fact, the advertising company issue being as bizarre as you can get. Take the latter out of the novel, and the only change you are going to get is the smaller page count. <br />All of these comments do not apply to his other novels, although I have one more &quot;Firestarter&quot; to read, which is not a good prospect, I hear. &quot;Cujo&quot; is just a half-baked book with a weak central idea (the only idea, in fact), nothing more. It could have been so much better. For example, the characters that could very well live in other books by this imaginative author - are two antisocial countrymen, Joe Camber and his buddy.<br />To summarize, &quot;Cujo&quot; is unfortunately a cheap pulp fiction thriller with (mostly) pathetic characters. Well, everyone has humps and slumps, and we should expect nothing else from writers. They are no different than we.	2001-07-03
US	36632284	R1MMBF0663W9ON	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Splendid literary historical novel	\\"The Quincunx\\" is a Victorian novel written very much in the spirit of the times, rather than from today's perspective. Snip: (...)	2001-07-03
US	36632284	R1Z58PWGG5O5N8	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Classic	Crisp, clear-cut prose that never trails off in undesired directions. No redundant word. Snip: (...)	2001-07-03
US	36632284	RNESJEIBVAOX5	0449911802	793426177	Celestial Navigation	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Mysterious ways	On the other hand, as this novel clearly points out - for woolgatherers like us life is a continuous struggle, a long chain of necessary sacrifices, the forced reconciliation with the demands and limits every day imposes on us. Snip: (...)	2001-07-02
US	36632284	R15D058ASE6O94	0453008003	591143364	Gerald's Game	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Games	We play games, and due to the nature of this world, sometimes we get into big trouble, and extraordinary experiences happen to quite ordinary characters, namely, to us. Snip: (...)	2001-06-04
US	36632284	RA3Y8HOLQSMNS	0449911594	1665039	Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Dinner	The hard truth of life is that we are happy only in the short intervals granted by the fate. Being happy, no matter for how long, does not make life purposeful. Snip: (...)	2001-06-04
US	36632284	R3IYGL10XDFE0W	042516313X	595375829	Breathing Lessons	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Optimistic message	Tyler paints the picture of a succesful and happy Marriage of two upper-middle-aged people. The point is that this is a happy Marriage of two completely different personalities, both of whom are very human, and nowhere near perfect. Snip: (...)	2001-05-04
US	36632284	R3PR1R9L3KNA2Q	020170014X	167519209	Adobe FrameMaker 6.0 Classroom in a Book	Books	5	31	34	N	N	An elevator for a steep learning curve	Adobe FrameMaker is a high-end product for desktop-publishing professionals and as such does not have a large customer base. If you need to create and design your own books, look no further. You probably have heard that this program has a very steep learning curve. Once you master the mysteries of this complicated and convoluted program, book design will be very easy and time-consuming. The problem is - where to start. <br />Adobe provides a very detailed manual in the product box. I am a first-time user, and although I understood the first few chapters I read, I was still unable to begin working on the second edition of my book (the first one was typed and set in MS Word). The point is - the USER GUIDE, or the enclosed manual is very detailed - it describes and explains every possible setting. Thus, it's more appropriate function is a FrameMaker encyclopedia, and not the &quot;guide&quot; for starters. This is only good, because there are too many programs out there whose manuals are too general. They are just bare overviews, and usually you have to buy a separate &quot;Bible&quot; textbook. <br />So, you have all documentation you will ever need - included in the program shrink-wrapped box. In order to learn the basics, it's best to purchase some introductory book. Adobe's &quot;Classroom in a Book&quot; provides this very important introduction which in the format of hand-guided lessons will let you go up that curve in a leisurable way of your own. <br />I finished reading the book in one day, performing all lessons included on the CD. Tell you what - I am ready. Not only I know the &quot;basic basics&quot;, but I KNOW WHAT TO LOOK FOR in the User Guide documentation.<br />Adobe &quot;classroom&quot; books are high-quality texts that are used for ACE training (Adobe certified expert). If you want to be an ACE, I do not need to convince you to buy this book. If you want to get quick, but good hands-on the best desktop-publishing product on earth, look no more. It's here.	2001-04-09
US	36632284	R2X6203JXEMGHC	0374518793	134708682	Auto-da-Fé: A Novel	Books	3	0	12	N	N	Difficult	Canetti's prose is difficult to read in English. The translation is a little wooden, and you have to devote your concentration to the structure of the sentences more than you would, have you been reading a native Anglo-Saxon author. Snip: (...)	2001-04-03
US	36632284	R3CXFBUSCBSBYV	0553582909	199284738	Icebound	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Ice-cap thriller	The book seems to be written according to the mystery/thriller recipe. I knew in advance what would happen next, precisely because, having read a few thrillers, I happen to know the recipe according to which this book was written. Snip: (...)	2001-04-03
US	36632284	R1HIOUO4R1J9OC	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Uneven	\\"The Tommyknockers\\" starts as many of King books do. Something unusual happens to a Maine resident, a blue-jeans everyman. Then, an apocalypse of events follows and we get what we like so much in his fiction: ordinary individuals facing problems which are usually too difficult for them to overcome. Snip: (...)	2001-04-03
US	36632284	R1S0LUDSSRVWWA	0679781382	999618850	Asylum	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fine novel	\\"Asylum\\" is a fine novel that will provide food for thought for a long time. It's a breath-taking read. I would encourage you to read this novel only if you are not vulnerable to strong emotions, or for some other reasons that will dawn on you when you finally grab the book and start reading it. Snip: (...)	2001-03-17
US	36632284	R299D8FDLBIOH7	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Compelling	\\"I Am Legend\\" consists ot the title novella and several short stories, spanning the life career of Richard Matheson. Snip: (...)	2001-03-03
US	36632284	R3SAYY466HWM60	0374453071	295058101	Moominpappa's Memoirs (Moomins)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I wish I were a boy again...	Moominpappa's Memoirs is the the most imaginative book of the series, although all of them are marvellous. This volume gives you a perspective on the history of Moominland. Snip: (...)	2001-03-03
US	36632284	R1V1CVGF2OKQXT	0312203322	450798880	The Lecturer's Tale: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful	The essence of the book is the conscious caricature of the self-illusioned comradeship of the literary academics who have lost any connection with reality whatsoever. Snip: (...)	2001-02-25
US	36632284	R12PY2ZRERFOT6	052133893X	88991881	Natural Monopoly Regulation: Principles and Practice (Cambridge Surveys of Economic Literature)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Comprehensive, modelling-based, rigorous	This is perhaps the only graduate textbook on Natural Monopoly Regulation available. Unfortunately, it's available only in libraries, as it went out of print soon after it was published. The company has no known plans of reprint, which is a real disaster for all graduate students of the field.<br />This textbook is comprehensive, modelling-based, rigorous, and yet maintains connection with the realities of the peculiar regulated markets in question. This implies that not only pure theoretical models are discussed and analyzed, but also the specific regulations are embedded into presentation.<br />Despite the fact that the book was written in late 80s, it still serves as an invaluable reference. I wish it were in print...	2001-02-19
US	36632284	R3NWZMYLF3SIVP	0451155750	497098217	The Dead Zone (Signet)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Undesirable desires	King has repeatedly explored the human nature and its weaknesses. Quite a handful of his books are rich variations on the basic fairy-tale theme of wishful thinking. Snip: (...)	2001-02-19
US	36632284	R1CNZ9S7HQXMTN	0521586119	583407791	Nonparametric Econometrics (Themes in Modern Econometrics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Up to date	This is the most accessible and the most comprehensive text on nonparametric econometric methods I have seen. The field is highly technical, and there has been a need for the book that would combine ease-of-use with the scope. Moreover, the book is up to date and covers all econometric methods, instead of focusing on a specific branch. Recommended.	2001-02-03
US	36632284	R1UU3FMO4SNZC3	0198772238	917848400	Industrial Economics and Organization: Theory and Evidence	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Old time rock and roll	This textbook represents an old-fashioned approach towards Industrial Economics, based on the structure-conduct-performance paradigm that dominated the field since the 50s until the 70s. The modelling revolution of game theory, auction theory, mechanism design and other tools has not been accounted for in this text. Moreover, the modelling itself is completely lacking from the presentation of theory. In fact, there is little theory here, just verbal stories and extensive case studies. Introductory textbooks do not necessarily have to be bursting with mathematics, yet some logical structure of thinking would be welcome. There exist better textbooks that develop student's intuition. A minor vice of the book is its verbosity. Too much form &amp; too little essence.	2001-02-03
US	36632284	R9X2G19HXGWYL	0262200848	486100649	Optimal Regulation: The Economic Theory of Natural Monopoly	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good starter for the field	This is one of the very few textbooks on Natural Monopoly Regulation. The level of presentation is undergraduate, which also means virtually no mathematics. It covers the basics quite well and may be considered as a good starter for the field. The book is full of illustrations that facilitate learning. Contrary to volumes written with the old descrirptive approach, this book teaches the student to think in terms of economic modelling.	2001-02-03
US	36632284	R37IXXA5J0JIOI	0521564735	811789598	General Equilibrium Theory: An Introduction	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Concise introduction to the mechanics of General Economics	This textbook is a concise technical introduction to the mechanics of General Equilibrium, one of two main branches of economic theory. The text does not cover this extensive field in all its capacity. Instead, we have a step-by-step construction of the main models presented with great care for details, so that the reader can learn precision, careful modeling and all necessary details. Moreover, it's useful for people who have difficulty proving theorems. <br />There is a special bonus that might encourage you to buy the text. The fixed-point theorems are covered in a brilliant, really excellent way. There is no way around that tool in General Equilibrium, and while having difficulty with more sophisticated texts, I found Starr's book to be very helpful in this respect.	2001-02-03
US	36632284	R64K4SVC4KS7T	0671046179	815342548	Blood And Smoke Cd	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Never too old to use new media	I have just bought my first audiobook, only because it was King. I smoke and just die to give up the habit. Never too old to use new media! Snip: (...)	2001-01-23
US	36632284	RWD7C7GXGRUDZ	0451168615	717487152	Skeleton Crew	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Inspirations	It is perhaps impossible to rate a collection of short stories than span 17 years. Some ideas can only be conveyed in short format and, once a reader is prepared, he can enjoy the compact and dense environment of a one-shot game - reading a few pages that force him to to concentrate. Snip: (...)	2001-01-23
US	36632284	R1LK4G9GFBQ2RR	0451161343	137038717	Thinner (Signet)	Books	1	3	8	N	N	1-dimensional	King's own words describe his prose as a literary equivalent of McDonald cheeseburger with French fries and ketchup. Snip: (...)	2001-01-21
US	36632284	R2TMNI1VE3NV8S	1571971394	790059235	Astrid: A Viking Saga	Books	4	4	5	N	N	It's an adult book, despite the title	Although it does have minor flaws, such as no real connection between some parts of the book, &quot;Astrid&quot; is a wonderful book to read, written by a Norwegian woman born and living in the States. The most important observation that should be made, is that the atmosphere of the book is real, you do not have the impression that it is written from today's perspective. Given the incompleteness of original sagas, Henriksen did a decent job, having managed to keep the story consistent and as full as possible. Who knows, maybe the detachment of some parts of the book were intended. If so, there is nothing that should prevent you from reading this book. You should not have an impression that the book is for children. Having read the book, I may assure you, that it is not suitable for kids. On the contrary, some events are either drastic, or have sexual content. Nevertheless, it was written with taste and you will enjoy the book throughout. The book is very Norwegian, if that may be stated by a person that has never been there... Very recommended.	2001-01-21
US	36632284	R2F9MOWA6B51WC	0195115821	650036295	Nonlinear Pricing: Published in association with the Electric Power Research Institute	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Handy compendium	This is the most detailed monography on nonlinear pricing that one can get nowadays. Written by one of the most active and innovative theorist the book is filled with the masterly blend of both applications and theoretical models. Accessible to anyone who has a solid grasp on the fundamentals of microeconomic theory. It was written in the beginning of the 90s and since then significant research has been done - including the mechanism design aspect of nonlinear pricing theory. Thus a new, revised edition would be welcome both for researchers and students.<br />This is really the best and thorough book on the subject. The only wish I could have is the too light and concise treatment of nonlinear pricing in noncompetitive markets that are far from both extrema of monopoly and perfect competition. Nevertheless, an excellent read.	2001-01-21
US	36632284	R2TLI24IX7LJRF	0256171769	782627118	Microeconomics	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Does the job it was written for	This is a very well written textbook. There are many textbooks out there on the markets and this one has been written with the beginning reader in mind. It is just too easy to scare the beginner with too-serious, too-academic dry language. Economics is fun to learn and the first textbook a student ever keeps in hand should make him interested, curious, wanting more and more, and of course, amused. The language of Katz and Rosen's textbook is by no means frivolous, but it is entertaining. They do not pull the rabbit out of the hat and startle the reader. Instead, they guide readers from familiar environment towards the unknown, always being down to earth and somehow, interestingly, economic theory sneaks in - in the meantime.<br />The order of theory presentation and the structure of the book really facilitate learning. I have used this book with the introductory microeconomics course, along with a few other ones - just for a test. They all preferred this one so we stuck with it for the remainder of the course.<br />In the middle of the book one finds a transparency with a graph, which, when applied, shows the effects of some parameter change. Excellent idea, as the student can see dynamically what happens with the application. It's like a hand-operated video... It's a pity that there is only one such transparency. <br />In summary, recommended for most introductory courses in microeconomics. it will keep students interested and will not scare them at all. Why want anything more?	2001-01-21
US	36632284	R2JV9KVTF9U5DK	0155139118	994220862	Contestable Markets and the Theory of Industry Structure	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Essential reading	It's not a textbook, yet might be used as one. It's not exactly a monography, yet ex-post may be considered as one. &quot;Contestable Markets...&quot; is a detailed exposition of a consistent theory of market structure and its determinants. In fact, it's built upon innovative work of late 70s and early 80s that not only provided a new set of tools for examining imperfect market structures, and natural monopoly in particular, but also provided (de)regulatory institutions with much needed theoretical agenda in the 80s.<br />It is an essential reading for anyone specializing in the field of Industrial Organization. Parts of the book may be of use for the advanced microeconomics course.	2001-01-15
US	36632284	R1PY2E9YUWQMB	0321031423	671307673	World Trade and Payments: An Introduction	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Thought provoking, intelligent textbook	This textbook for International Economics is a rarity. It's intelligent, exceptionally well written by the experts in the field. It does include a thorough review of the state-of-the-art theory of international trade and finance. To facilitate learning and yet challenge the reader, the authors equipped each chapter with really tough exercises. Only having solved them one might have an impression that he grasped the metarial really well. Good exercises are an indispensable companion of a student. Here we have one of the best I have ever seen. And I have seen a lot. Superior to other textbooks and highly recommended.	2001-01-15
US	36632284	R26Q20UOSO2PN0	0198283814	798983725	Game Theory and Economic Modelling (Clarendon Lectures in Economics)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	A lecture, not a book	This is an offhand lecture by a professional in the field. It's not a textbook or a monograph - it is a side look at the state of the field. The author explains why game theory was useful in explaining various phenomena, but at the same time gives us hints for why it failed to explain others. You will learn that the abundancy of equilibria and structure in repeated games will enable you to prove almost anything, which is the weakness rather than a strength of this tool. Kreps defines the limits of the field and tells the reader what is yet to be done in game theory - and why. <br />A good read after a theoretical textbook. It allows you to stop, turn around and ask yourself a few fundamental questions.	2001-01-15
US	36632284	R1PSPO48NWQASD	0444704345	283765632	001: Handbook of Industrial Organization (Handbooks in Economics 10)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Essential companion for a graduate student &amp; researcher	The Handbook is an essential companion for a graduate student in the field of economic theory. Although both young researchers, graduate students and experts in various economic fields will find it useful, it's really indispensable for anyone who is professionally interested in the field of Industrial Organization. <br />It's a professional guide to the extensive literature on noncompetitive markets, both theoretical (Volume I) and empirical (Volume II). It's not a textbook, although may be used in advanced microeconomics and IO courses as a companion. It was published in 1989 and a lot changed since then. Highly recommended. <br />Volume III is about to be published and alltogether the three volumes are a must.	2001-01-14
US	36632284	R2SU1YUJ2UGI8Q	0715562843	686377693	Nansen : The Explorer as Hero	Books	4	11	13	N	N	By no means a typical biography	This is a very dynamically written biography of Fridtjf Nansen, polar explorer who established the farthest north not to be beaten for a couple of next years. The journey in &quot;Fram&quot;, custom built ship, is bizarre enough, indeed. As intended, the ship entered polar ocean close to the Siberian coast of Taimyr Peninsula, where it was locked frozen in the ice for the next three years. The expedition mainly performed some scientific observations, self-imprisoned in the lonely ice of the north. The drift helped the frozen ship move slowly towards the North Pole with no activity on the part of explorers. It failed however to approach the pole itself, so Nansen set for the pole using dogs and sleighs, together with only one human companion, Hjalmar Johanssen. Cut off from the ship and inventory, they tried hard to achieve their goal. Having failed, they decided not to come back to the ship, which itself would be hard to find given the conditions of the environment and the ice drift. They headed for Svalbard instead, hundreds of kilometers away, instead. Meantime, they discovered an unknown archipelago, or at least it seemed so to them. They spent winter there in the ice cave, having hunted enough walruses to make a living. The story is full of adventures, exciting, unexpected, amusing or just otherwise sad, but always engaging. Read for yourself how they ended up. The journey for the farthest north is only part of the book, which is extensively long, covering all Nansen's life, and all of his activities, including the League of Nations leadership, for which later he was awarded a Nobel prize. Very recommended, as it is by no means a typical biography.	2000-10-31
US	36632284	R3QJ13S2R8EO5I	0375754741	368327816	The Last Place on Earth: Scott and Amundsen's Race to the South Pole, Revised and Updated (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Essentially a biography of Roald Amundsen	This is an updated and revised version of the book originally published in 1979. Thrilling. Amazing. Wonderful. It made me interested in polar expeditions of that time. The book is not concentrated on the race itself - it is essentially a biography of Roald Amundsen, the greatest polar explorer of all times. The book should draw your attention, because it is so much different from the Anglo-Saxon polar literature, which glorifies their own heroes, whether or not they deserve that. In particular, Robert Falcon Scott is notoriously pictured as hero, a fallen angel, a victim of circumstances and/or others' unfairness. Oh yes, this is very British. The story is fascinating. In summary, a must read.	2000-10-31
US	36632284	REP0PHG9CKXMW	0312200382	23679462	Under the Snow: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Gorgeous landscape	Beware, because all Ekman's stories are situated in Swedish social environment, which is very different from any other. Her books are as cold and harsh as the climate in Scandinavia. I must go there sometime. Snip: (...)	2000-10-31
US	36632284	RHZFOKK7X85MT	1559702435	823035226	Dina's Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wassmo	Wild Northern Norway. More to the North of this Most Northern Country than most of Norwegians live. Herbjrg Wassm creates the atmosphere that you allow yourself to get involved to the maximum extent. Snip: (...)	2000-10-31
US	36632284	R1Y5QHL1M108NE	0312152477	769675279	Blackwater: A Novel	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Scandinavian Thriller	Another book by Kerstin Ekman, in the same tradition as \\"Under the Snow\\". Time? The sixties with their own weirdness, hippies' communes and woman sharing. Snip: (...)	2000-10-31
US	36632284	R1LNP94XNF9REN	0374315264	52888743	Comet in Moominland: Can Moomintroll save his beloved valley?	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lovely and touching	I have started to explore Scandinavian literature as a very young boy, at the age of four. When I enrolled the first grade of grammar school, I already had gone through numerous fairytales, Scandinavian children sagas, stories, and of course the Moominland. Snip: (...)	2000-10-31
US	36632284	R196HXHRHU5N9M	0451167317	877287899	The Dark Half	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Quick-paced crime thriller	Quick-paced crime thriller: That's the best description of this magnificent novel. Located of course in Maine, this time in Castle Rock. Both this book, and 'Needful Things' have several characters in common.  Unlike another pair of novels, 'The Regulators' and 'Desperation', the  characters in question preserve their personality and biographies  throughout the novels. Although after finishing 'The Dark Half' you may  have an impression that all is well that ends well, read its sibling novel  to get to know that this isn't so at all. I have found the 'Half' colorful  and enchanting. This novel bound me to itself, so that I felt compelled to  finish reading at one shot. Chances are you will too. King often utilizes  one writer's trick of emphasizing character's persistent thoughts in  separated lines or special type. In 'Carrie' it was for instance  &quot;dirtypillows&quot;, in 'The Shining' it was &quot;redrum&quot;, and  here it's &quot;the sparrows are flying again&quot;. These mantras remain  rooted long after reading the book in question. The writing technique is  very convincing, serving as a complement to sequential presentation of  words spoken and thought. How many times a day you use one expression in  your head's voice and quite another goes out of your mouth? Coming back to  the main plot of the book, one can imagine how much pissed off King must  have been when his Bachman pseudonym was revealed to the public. On the  other hand, the book suggests that he had some bitter thoughts observing  the divergence of the volume of sales of his Bachman books and the ones  written under his proper name, respectively. Well, all is well that ends  well at least in this respect. Years later, in 1995, he exhumed his Bachman  pseudo to write a companion novel to 'Desperation'. It was very handy and  King used it in a brilliant way, indeed. Hence, reading 'The Dark Half' in  2000, one can look at the bitter writer's experiences with some  perspective. As for the book itself, I claim that few writers have King's  talent to write books you can't put down, and at the same time be able to  amaze the reader with both descriptions and dialogues. Let me use a clich:  we don't read King for blood or any other feature like this. We read him  because virtually each book of his carries the stigma of good literature  and uniqueness. We read his books because He wrote them, no matter what the  book is about. Don't we? So what? Well, LONG LIVE THE KING!	2000-05-05
US	36632284	R3QCRJAVSMV6XN	0451197968	321732450	The Running Man	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The future is not what it used to be	The future is not what it used to be, as the old saying goes. How should we look at a futuristic novel 29 years after it was written? I call the book futuristic, as it does not earn the name of science fiction. What immediately struck me is the similarity of this book and the recent  blockbuster, The Matrix. There are differences, obviously, but they are not  crucial. There is the Matrix, and there is the Network. In both  environments, people in their whole mass live either terrorized, or  corrupted, but almost everyone is living in a sort of a bad dream. The  Bachman's world of 2025 is not a pleasure to live in. Inhuman institutions  which took the earth over - that has been the dread of XX century, now  coming slowly to its end. Many authors fantasized about it in a great many  of ways and it does not really matter whether the novel is framed as  realistic, naturalistic, pure science fiction, or just futuristic, as in  the case of The Running Man. We may sketch yet another comparisons. This  book and The Long Walk sport the same theme of a wild national pastime,  where human life is sacrificed to entertain the bloodthirsty masses, and by  no means the boogeymen - all the ordinary people, all of us, or, rather,  all of them. Circus and bread, that's all the society need, sad but true,  at least since the Roman Republic. Similarities may be pointed out between  the book and the last to date Bachman novel, The Regulators, in the sense  of the power the media have over us. The danger of detachment from reality.  In The Running Man, the evil is personalized in the Free-Vee, an Orwellian,  omnipotent super-television. Coming back to what I mentioned at the very  beginning, the future-world Ben Richards lives in is a little funny from  the point of view of a guy who lives in a cyber era of the Y2K. Technology  is faster-paced than the best industrial prophets can estimate. A funny  thing is that Ben's aircraft is Lockheed. Well, the firm went bankrupt  several years after the publication of the novel. One can list such  oddities, but why the hell? Does the fact that 2001 the Space Odyssey was  directed in the 60s DETER all the entertainment? No, it doesn't. Same goes  here. To me, it's a sort of fun to read old futuristic prose and compare to  the reality. One might wonder why King wrote such a novel, so much unlike  the other ones. First of all, it only proves his ability and breadth of his  capacity as a writer. On the other hand, what we look in his prose is not  so much the scene, the environment, as the characters themselves,  narration, dialogues, and IT, something unique and King-ian (or King's  King-ese? King-ous?). All in all, I liked the book very much, was  entertained throughout, was brave enough to disagree with the author that  Schwarzenegger is not a good type of guy to portray Ben Richards, and of  course I was sad with the way it ended. Before I finish, I have to  complain, though. I have just bought a Signet paperback sporting FOREWORD  by Stephen King. What is the purpose of foreword? We all know, I suppose.  Nevertheless, as I worked my way through it, I had to grimace when King  revealed the ending of the book in his preface. Oh, Master, why have you  done it? You, who often complained that readers have itchy hands and peek  at the last pages because they can't hold to the end? You, who published  The Green Mile as a serial novel and publicly admitted that you liked the  idea that readers couldn't just open the last page and see the end? I am  angry with you, Mr. King. But just a little. Inside, I am glad as hell that  I had an opportunity to read this outstanding novel. Thanks. And I ask for  more.	2000-05-02
US	36632284	RIZN2L8DLIIH9	0451196716	882393531	The Long Walk	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Circus and bread	That's unmistakably Bachman! Who else could have written a story where characters are shot one after one, one after another, sometimes in pairs, in triangles, but mostly on their own. With all others watching. Waiting  for the finger of fate touch them and pass the leprosy of death. Grim  novel, but somehow beautiful in its own right. Like 'The Regulators',  written 26 years later, here we have no winners. The two novels are  sisters, in fact. In the latter the main fetish is television, in the one I  am reviewing, it is sports - with live performance and spectators. It  reminds me of the old movie with James Caan, 'The Roller Coaster'.  Participants are wolves to each other, and although at the beginning they  have their sanity working, not long after they lose all humanity and real  ground, transforming into animals who operate on instinct. The  self-preservation one. There is one thing we share as a society, which King  emphasizes as symptomatic and ever-present. The circus. Remember ancient  Rome and gladiators? Rome's people needed circus and bread, and since then  the human race has not changed much. I could perfectly imagine myself as a  spectator of The Long Walk. I do not deny that there is a blood-thirsty  animal inside my own self. And I am not alone, I guess, which makes this  novel more real than one might think initially. A final word about the  writing style. Abstracting from the subject of  fiction here, we can  clearly see that already as an undergraduate, Stephen King was perfectly  able to get a good grip on our throat, to make us read madly, to interrupt  the main  story with leisurely paced amazing digressions, to put life into  his characters - make them 3-dimensional and ripe, to transplant his  memories of fatherland into fascinating environment, and finally, just to  write a helluva lot of a good story.	2000-05-02
US	36632284	R1JNXLOYUBKHGL	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Death, Life, Purpose and Random	This book is and isn't a sequel to 'It', the longest and most sophisticated Derry story, with some similarities, and cross-references. Snip: (...)	2000-05-02
US	36632284	R1TJAYVJPP7ZUY	0451197879	321732450	Roadwork	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The shaky cease-fire still holds	Like movies, some books just get old.The book is full of allegories and direct references. Snip: (...)	2000-05-02
US	36632284	R2A4VKIVOK2LIZ	0684853507	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Leisurely paced	I think that King has achieved a new level of ability with this book. It is long, structured, and as often with his books, interesting and engaging. Snip: (...)	2000-04-25
US	36632284	RJNNVF5XXFKMK	0670858692	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Ze Bool	I regard this work by Stephen King as one of the weirdest. This book is like a first draft, a sketch. Snip: (...)	2000-04-24
US	36632284	R2U21ELPPU1J3L	0385086954	769595666	Carrie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Religious nuts are nothing to fool with	The soundtrack for the movie is one of the best I have ever heard. I had it in my mind while reading the book. Snip: (...)	2000-04-18
US	36632284	R3C5ZI3MHY9KVQ	0385182449	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How much would you give to make them come back?	Very good story with a handful of characters. Really scary sometimes. Do not watch a movie, enjoy the book. The idea explored is thrilling, indeed. This was one of the few times I have been distressed by a particular book  of this sort. I still think about the way it ended. I imagine the feel of  her hand. For some time after finishing the novel, I dream about it and  wake up cold-sweating and trembling. Does that convince you to go and pick  the book off the shelf? 'Pet Sematary' is the first King's approach of the  issue of fulfilled dreams and desires. Here, these are connected with the  death of the loved ones. Can something happen to make them come back alive,  as if nothing happened? Yes, but.... Well, go for the book. In 'Needful  Things' King extends this analysis to longings that are not this desperate  - with different consequences for the &quot;lucky&quot; ones, who have  theor dreams fulfilled. Quite a few King novels share particular literary  details. One that stands out is the mantra that recurs throughout the book,  like a motto. Usually it stays in our minds long after we put the book  away.  In 'Insomnia', the mantra is: done-bun-can't-be-undone. As if in a  reference to 'Pet Sematary'. Yet another issue. The novel's oldtimer is a  representative closed-mouthed Yankee, Stephen King's trademark.	2000-04-18
US	36632284	R32049E3EP2DCD	0452278902	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Old Sparky	Well, Stephen King is like an old wine - the older, the better. Like 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption', this serial novel is the masterpiece, a diamond of literature. King's works do not deserve to be classified as  merely horror. This book should convince you enough. The author is not  afraid to explore new means of communication with his constant reader. This  time, the sequentially published 6 parts of the novel, recently combined in  paperback, kept the readers anxious for half a year of distribution. As the  America's Boogeyman admits himself, he did not have a clear idea of how the  book would end, and what he would write later, after publication of the  first volumes. The novel did not shake my point of view as for the  necessity of the death penalty. Some guys deserve the rendez-vous with the  Old Sparky. King's strength is in portraying characters, and 'The Green  Mile' provides us with absolutely wonderful example. There will be no such  character like Dolores Claiborne, but I guess that in the novel with  several characters and no intention of psychological study, this the  maximum one can achieve. In general, the book will entertain virtually  anyone, not only those who like Stephen King. I await the DVD release of  the film adaptation with Tom Hanks.	2000-04-18
US	36632284	R254KWA1H0OBD8	1880418363	562576523	Desperation	Books	5	1	3	N	N	God is cruel!	Whoa! This is the masterpiece, combined with 'The Regulators'. This book is just monumental, along with 'The Stand', 'It' and 'Needful Things'. They are currently producing the movie and I can't just wait until the DVD goes  for the market. Imagine Stephen King on vacation, going to the West Coast.  Driving through a deserted vilage in Nevada, his brain immediately produces  the mayhem that resulted in extermination of virtually all inhabitants of  the mine-town. The narration is &quot;plastic&quot; - King put a lot of  effort to enable readers to visualize the desert environment and dust of  sun-blasted Nevada. Personally, I would prefer to be in North Greenland,  than in Nevada. Nevertheless, even such a polar-bear as me found it  convincing. I only wish that King had put the extended and juicy story of  the mayhem. The novel is about God and His cruelty. Another example of  phisolophical stigma that is present in King's recent writings. Why do  innocent ones have to suffer? Why those, who seemingly less deserve to  survive, eventually end up well and those who have never hurt a fly and had  always been good-natured folks - have to die without warning or purpose?  God is cruel. So are we. Haven't we been created in his image?	2000-04-18
US	36632284	R2IR5TCTDHABM8	0451191013	575466033	The Regulators	Books	5	8	10	N	N	I am fetished...	Here we go. After 10 years, Stephen King exhumed his well-known Bachman pseudonym. This volume, and companion 'Desperation', share the characters, although having read one, you will be seriously surprised how he shuffled  the cast of characters. I claim that this is an outrageously excellent idea  - haven't seen one so far. Bravo! This has been my greatest pleasure of  reading those two books one after another. This one I read first, and  strongly recommend doing so. Characters are introduced within first several  pages, whereas in 'Desperation', there are substantial lags between the  intros of particular heroes. Reading in this fashion, you will wonder and  wonder, how else the characters were mutated in the latter book. I guess  that guys who reversed the sequence were equally amazed, but in the way I  can't grasp right now. 'Regulators' is a fast-paced, dark, cruel novel,  ideal for the cinema script. I actually found it thrilling. The lonely  suburban street in the middle of nowhere, Ohio. A sequence of vans enter  the street. The massacre rampage begins. Put yourself into such a  situation. Try at least. Now, I guess that fashions and dedication to  teleseries and film characters inspired King to construct the main theme of  the book. The nedd to identify with flawless celuloid heroes. Detachement  from reality, which usually in now way resembles the pastel environment of  television and movies. For those who are bored with the idea of a small kid  with supernatural powers, who always survives the mess King envisions in  his numerous novels: here there are no winners. Especially among kids. Who  said that Bachman is just King without a consicence? Last comment - the  book design is very inventive, as you will see if you purchase the  hardcover edition. I am a book-lover and felt fetished by this carefully  edited volume. Go for it!	2000-04-18
US	36632284	R3JHCVSFF681RV	0451172817	742574412	Needful Things: The Last Castle Rock Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What if your 'needful thing' is a living person?	Fast-paced, with increasing tempo throughout, exceptionally witty sometimes; one of my favorite scene involves Nettie and Wilma's duel. I was both amazed and stunned by the powerful imagination that supplied such a plot. (...)	2000-04-18
US	36632284	R32JYKXPA71WLD	0684867621	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon : A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A delicate story	\\"The Girl...\\" is a short story aboutbeing lost in the woods. The little 9-year old makes a series ofmistakes that force her to spend more than a week in the wilderness, thick Northern forest of Maine and New Hampshire. (...)	2000-04-13
US	36632284	R28792CAR2TR8T	0451177096	252564915	Dolores Claiborne	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Stunning study...	The book is interesting from various points of view. One that strikes you right away on the very first page is that it is a monologue part of a dialogue, where the interlocutor text is completely unimportant. I haven't seen this before, and I am syrprised how WELL it worked out. Of course, some readers will be dissapointed just because of that, but I suppose that if they want to get scared each year with the new Maestro book, then they might as well stick with Salem's Lot and reread it. (...)	2000-03-23
US	36632284	R2KMYZNUIZR55R	0345387651	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Charles Irving or John Dickens?	Charles Irving or John Dickens? hard to tell. This book is moving, delicate and full of moral problems that are either solved or not. Very true. Also, Irving is in high spirits and that is reflected in his style of  writing. Despite the multilevel wonderfulness of &quot;Garp&quot;, I think  that it is &quot;Cider House Rules&quot; that is his best piece of writing  in the sense of style and mastery of word. I am happy that I read the  original English version first. Now they are making a movie based on this  book featuring ... John Irving the Master himself.	2000-03-06
US	36632284	R2PGG8671UXWOG	0345418018	680934194	The World According to Garp (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Classics	This is a classic, a must read for absolutely everyone. With that book, Irving established himself as a monument in literary history. &quot;Garp&quot; is complex. Do not try to read if you like easy literature. I have so many comments, that I find it difficult to say  anything about this book. This is what often happens to me. If I really  love some piece of literature or music, I can't say a word, although I have  a lot to say. Well, is it a good enough recommendation to encourage you to  read this giant book? I doubt so, but believe me, that if I were able to, I  would write all I can to make you read it.	2000-03-06
US	36632284	R12IN9GKEPU2YJ	034536743X	234748596	The 158-Pound Marriage	Books	5	0	1	N	N	I do not understand why they need dire action to like a book	This is his third novel, and as critics say, all his first four novels may be considered as one huge project. Each of the first three concentrates on some aspect of life, while in \\"The World According to Garp\\" these themes are unified. \\"Marriage\\" is all about envy and consequences of letting oneself free with desire. Even if everyone seems to accept excursions outside of marriage, the participants are bound to fail later on, no matter what happens in the early stage. Joy and apparent gain is temporary, while the loss and damage is of long term character.	2000-03-06
US	36632284	R84U7C3JQUULU	034540047X	388275186	The Hotel New Hampshire	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Irving at his best	Guess where the plot is based. In Vienna! And in New England, another region of action for his books. We also have a grandfather from Iowa, a retired wrestling coach. Irving is himself a wrestling coach from New England, who visited Vienna in his youth. But this should not drive you to  think that either Irving writes an autobiography or that his books are  repetitive. In fact, far from both. His books are linked, but who said that  it is a disadvantage? &quot;Hotel&quot; is his most comedian book. Very  funny, with change of pace right in the middle. A story of the family with  futuristic father, living in the clouds. There was a movie with Jodie  Foster and Nastassja Kinsky. Yummy!	2000-03-06
US	36632284	R21NF6T20D4536	0898865123	189480173	Storms of Silence	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Tibetan Simpson here	This book is less entartaining than his other ones, but in fact it is not intended as a substitute, but as a complement for the other ones. We havefor instance the  poetic description of skinhead bully and the clash in the pub, a typical Simpson story, multiplicity of climbing, and the  complete study of Simpson's face and the consequences of using his mimics.  Apart from these Simpsonites, the book itself is a treatise on Tibet, once  a peaceful, free country - the Roof of the World. Read that and understand  what you did not want to know. It would be fun to read this book before or  after seeing &quot;Seven Years in Tibet&quot;.	2000-03-06
US	36632284	R3K8V16QL4SMG2	0375501371	685444613	A Widow for One Year: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Mr. Irving, I am waiting for your next entry. You have 24 hr	Some ones love adults. Much more adult than themselves. This is a story about deep age differences between lovers or could-be lovers. This book is about sex in various forms which are all far from standard, although  nothing filthy. As an additional spice, another theme from Garp returns  here in full motion, namely oversized fear for children. Irving once wrote  in a preface to the newest edition of Garp that he is constantly worried  that his children will die. He has nightmares every day and claims this is  a good thing to have ones as a good parent. Here these fears are  exemplified quite drastically. If you ask me what thing has stayed in my  mind a year after reading the novel, I would tell you the following: Ruth's  breasts. There is a lot in the book about how impressive they are. In fact,  Irving can't help himself and every time Ruth appears on the stage, there  is something about that. Quite good analysis of fixation. Hm...	2000-03-06
US	36632284	R3AXAGEADEZMWU	0345367421	648212641	The Water-Method Man	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Life is wasted like water through fingers	Time is wasted like water through fingers. Inability to do something with one's life. Patience of women living with the main hero seems to be enormous, but it must end somewhere. Here we have a study of someone, who is not able to get a grip of his own life, tries to escape decisions, in  particular those which concern his life the most. I won't tell the story,  but I was depressed afterwards. There is a lot of truth in this book. I  felt very uneasy, reading it, but I think I will read it again. You bet.	2000-03-06
US	36632284	RKIASWBWAG1KH	0898866103	912267094	Nanga Parbat Pilgrimage: The Lonely Challenge	Books	5	6	8	N	N	LAST MAN STANDING	I have just reread this classic in English. Hermann Buhl was the best mountaineer the earth had ever given birth to. The conqueror of Nanga Parbat and Falchen Kangi, one of two people who devirginized 2 eight-thousanders, along with Kurt Diemberger. His all ascents stand in  contrast with the siege methods of the time, but the ascent of Nanga Parbat  set the limit of endurance and courage, to be met decades later. His style  compares to the style Mount Everest was ascended in the same way as Jerzy  Kukuczka's 14-summits compare to Reinhold Messner's, respectively.	2000-03-06
US	36632284	R3DHCPX12V5I3D	0060916540	876635042	Touching the Void: The Harrowing First Person Account Of One Man's Miraculous Survival	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Horror...	Horror. This book should be filed under horror in bookstores. It is an account of one fatal adventure in the Andes. Joe Simpson and his climbing partner decided to climb a virgin, difficult wall in the Peruvian Andes. Joe has an accident near the summit, breaks his thigh. Of course weather changes to hurricane and although the continue descent, they are both bound to death.	2000-03-06
US	36632284	RG3D6BRL3D282	0345367413	501452642	Setting Free the Bears	Books	2	3	4	N	N	It is a debut of the GIANT	Debut book by John Irving is disappointing only when you have previously read all others, like I did. The story is about Vienna (a recurring theme in all of his prose) and misery of the postwar aftermath with foreign occupants. The Viennese Zoo animals were released and eaten at the end of  the war. Irving fantasizes about this event. I could not manage to finish  the book, however. He is a talented novelist, but I should have switched  the order of reading and start with &quot;Bears&quot;. After all others, I  am not able to recommend the book even to myself.	2000-03-06
US	36632284	R16WK0N6UDM3TW	1563410338	176131063	Before Our Eyes: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Miscommunication	This book is primarily about family relationship at their low points. One thing is easy to observe. Namely that American independence style of life (the main ingredient, I think) bundled with cold family relationship is very likely to generate the whole range of attitudes in the adult life. Not necessarily healthy ones. It is never a good thing when parents cannot communicate with their children. Children must feel love, devotion and real interest at all times. Later, the frustrations come out. Add alcohol and you are done. A good reading, but there is one objection I have. I do not want to reveal the plot to all those who have not read yet, not to spoil their fun, but the first of the affairs in the book is described flatly, just matter-of-factly. No deep ground, just an observation. This is not something that I find convincing. The second one is artificial and there is nothing I can add to that description. Nevertheless, all technical comments aside, what remains is a good reading, I think. I wish only that the author had devoted more time to construction.	1999-11-23
