US	36709981	R1SLYS06ZLM06I	044661176X	232251178	Once Upon a Blind Date	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Matchmakers become the matchees in this caper.	_Once Upon A Blind Date_ was truly a joy to read.  Maggie O'Mulligan decides to find her best friend, Dominic, the wife he (sort of) wants. He is a fabulous catch but the sparks just aren't there for the two of them.  Meanwhile across town, Charlie Kennelly thinks his favorite neighbor, Julie, could stand to get back into the dating scene.  She's an amazing pastry chef that would be perfect for some guy...just not Charlie.  Charlie was practically left at the alter and has decided that he doesn't want to settle down.  He writes the `Bachelor at Large' column for a women's magazine.  <br />Maggie completes Dom's profile (as a `old fashioned' guy looking for an `old-fashioned' girl) on an online dating service, and then she starts contacting other singles.  Charlie and Julie review the first batch of responses to the profile Charlie filled out for her.  Poor Julie is a little put off by all the nuts that respond.  Until she sees Dom's.  Charlie convinces her to plan on the two of them meeting in a public place and they can each bring a friend.  Dom wants to go with the guys to the Knicks game but Maggie schedules his date for that night.  Julie (at Charlie's suggestion) sends over the tickets for where they are supposed to meet up...the Knick's game.  Never mind that Julie doesn't know or care for Basketball; Charlie knows this is how she can score points with him.  Dom and Maggie get the tickets while they are at work.  Dom is excited since the seats are better than where his friend's were and Maggie is confused why an `old-fashioned' girl would plan a first meeting at a basketball game.  <br />Needless to say once everyone meets up, it's obvious that two chaperones have more in common than Dom and Julie.  The story flows from one fatal date to another as the matchmakers refuse to give up.  Somewhere along the way, they start spending personal time together and boy do the sparks fly!!!!  Maggie and Charlie ride a roller coaster on the way to end of the story.  It's fun to take the ride with them.  Not once did I think, \\"enough already or get to the good stuff.\\"  I felt like the whole story was the good stuff.<br />Wendy Markhan has a nice writing style that flips between the characters seamlessly.  It's frustrating when an author tries to write from the various points of view with a bias towards one character.  In _Once Upon..._ there wasn't any awkward transitions.  None of the characters were dislikeable which is a breath of fresh air.  Not every story needs a witch or jerk to make a character appreciate their \\"true\\" love.  Sometime people just don't mesh.  <br />I really enjoyed this book and I look forward to reading _The Nine Month Plan_, which is sitting on my bookcase.	2004-03-17
US	36709981	R1P2X2PHSY6S9K	0060085452	27148357	Boy Meets Girl (The Boy Series)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Boy Meets Girl With Lots Of Trouble	Meg Cabot does it again in BOY MEETS GIRL.  The story follows the same format as THE BOY NEXT DOOR.  It is told through the technology age: emails, court depositions, telephone recordings, notes on a dinner menu, etc.  There are a lot of characters from THE BOY NEXT DOOR who reappear and are still working at the New York Journal.  <br />Our story here starts with the law firm where Mitch has joined at this father's request after a near fatal heart attack.  Mitch is given the task of defending the Journal's new HR assistant, Kate Mackenzie, when she and the company are sued for wrongful termination of Ida, the beloved dessert cart operator.  Ida refuses to serve her delectable treats to certain members of the management staff.  This time, it's Stuart Hertzog, the Journal's legal counsel and fiancé to Kate's boss, Amy Jenkins the \\"T.O.D.\\" (Tyrannical Office Despot).  Stuart has a conflict of interest so he passes this case along to Mitch, even though he doesn't get along with him.  <br />Kate is attracted to Mitch, as he is with her, but every time she is near him, something embarrassing happens to her.  Her ex-boyfriend is the only man she has been with and since he won't commit after ten years together, Kate leaves him and camps out on her Jen's couch.  Through a series of events, Kate finds herself living with the Journal's style editor, Dolly Vargas.  (Yes, she makes an appearance after her stint in THE BOY NEXT DOOR.)  Amy tries to pin the termination issues on Kate and Mitch works hard to prove Kate's innocence.  <br />The best parts of Meg Cabot's books are the insights into the corporate world.  Every business has those social climbers who will stop at nothing to make themselves look good.  Then you have the popular employees who seem to get the knife in the back.  This book is clever in it's unfolding of the story around this type of setting.  I couldn't put the book down and read it in one sitting. I agree with some others that I hope this isn't the last wehave heard from our friends at the New York Journal.	2004-01-13
US	36709981	R3JN03EQE4UPS5	037383599X	563216117	Simply Sensual (The Simply Series, Book 3)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Simply HOT, SEXY, and SEDUCTIVE	Carly Phillip's third installment of the SIMPLY series is a winner with me.  We knew after SIMPLY SINFUL that Grace was the next person Emma Montgomery was turning her matchmaking eye towards.  Grace has been living in New York off her trust fund when she realizes that she cannot put her parent's expectations behind her.  So, learning from her brother, she stops taking money from her trust fund and finds a job helping people.  She is hired as a photographer to create a brochure that will show how poorly some children live.  This is tricky because Grace wants to show the kid's potential while touching people with her pictures so they will give generously to the fund.  In order to accomplish her goal, she has another job to supplement her income.  She must also travel to areas most people consider dangerous in New York to get her pictures.  Grace has done this without the knowledge of her family.  As a result of her tight lips her grandmother, Emma, is concerned over her welfare.<br />Emma hires a P.I., Ben Callahan, to keep an eye on Grace.  Emma isn't looking for personal details but rather a report that Grace is happy and safe in her life.  Ben needs the extra money to help his ill mother move into an assisted living facility.  Ben takes residence in the apartment across from Grace.  There is an instant attraction when they first meet.  This book showcased the chemistry better than the last two books in the series.  <br />As for Grace, she is trying to go beyond her comfort zone.  She feels an attraction to Ben and decides to do something about it.  She is cute as she tries to play off the sexy vixen when she really is a sweet and down-home kind of person.  Grace finds Ben tagging along with her as she goes into the neighborhoods to take her pictures.  On one particular day, she is attacked and told not to return or she will be seriously hurt.  This starts a minor mystery that brings Ben and Grace closer together.  Grace is happy to have found someone who wants tobe with her because of who she is and not what family she belongs to.  Lots of tension breaks out when Grace finds out the truth about how Ben came into her life.<br />I enjoyed the way this relationship unfolded.  Two adults who felt something and let things go naturally.  They do average activities like washing a car and turn it into a sensual chore.  This is the best of the series to date and maybe we will find Emma working her magic again sometime soon.	2004-01-13
US	36709981	R2TVBYD8TJZEQL	0373835795	439523659	Simply Scandalous (The Simply Series, Book 2)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Pleasant but not WOW	Carly Simon's second installment in the `Sinful' series takes over with the second Luck sister. Catherine's family is colorful at best and scandalous at worst.  There were mob ties with her Aunt's husband, a prostitution business she and her sister inherited (under the guise of a charm school), and to top it off, her father left their mother at an early age.  <br />Logan Montgomery is from one of the town's oldest and wealthiest families.  The matriarch is Emma Montgomery, his grandmother.  Emma wants to see her two grandchildren (Lance and his sister, Grace) married with kids.  (Ms. Phillip's likes to have older women cause havoc on the younger generations in her books.)  Logan is a Public Defender who has chosen not to live off the familial money.  His father is called \\"The Judge\\" and is overbearing.  He wants his son to follow into the family role of lawyer then mayor.  However, Logan doesn't want this for himself.  <br />His gran, Emma, comes tries to convince him that he needs to ruin his reputation...fast!  During her annual garden gala, she points out Catherine Luck, the caterer.  He doesn't go along with her plan but is intrigued with Catherine.  They become involved and there is a little drama thrown in the mix but mostly this is a story about their evolvement as a couple.  <br />I was a little disappointed by the lack of build up.  With that said, it was well written and the character's were likeable.  I wish there were more obstacles for them to overcome and more shenanigans from Emma.	2003-12-29
US	36709981	R3HA7RUQRFEBOG	0060534370	196447941	Playing House	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A new voice in Urban Lit to keep an eye out for!	Patricia Pearson's \\"Playing House\\" was such a treat.  I was getting bored with the same old formula that seems to possess chick lit writers.  This book reinvigorated by love of the genre.  Nothing in this book takes itself too seriously.  <br />Our friend, Frannie, is living the single life in NYC.  She has recently hooked up with an experimental jazz musician.  They are keeping things casual.  Her work at a magazine is paying the bills (barely).  Calvin takes off for a tour in Europe when Frannie puts two and two together and figures out she is pregnant.  Her first reaction is to head back home, to Canada, to see a doctor and her family.  Once there, she pulls herself up by her bootstraps and heads back to the big apple to prepare for the new addition.  While on her trip home, she finds that her work visa has expired and she is stuck in Canada.  Luckily, her yuppie brother and sister-in-law are leaving the country and she can housesit in their posh pad.  <br />How to tell Calvin is another issue.  Frannie breaks the news and he shows up.  Calvin is sort of an Ethan Hawke kind of guy.  (A little different, into obscure things, grungy and oh so cute.)  Calvin is a typical artsy, poor, and unique guy.  Sure he's frustrating at times but he basically wants to do the right thing.  <br />There were many points where I just laughed and felt like Frannie could be one of my friends.  Ms. Pearson's cleverly written story weaves a magical reality around this couple.  It's more realistic than fantasy and funnier than fiction in its accuracy.  I'm keeping an eye out for more stories from Ms. Pearson.	2003-12-29
US	36709981	RYZVY739RQ9Y9	0446610542	540641208	The Bachelor (The Chandler Brothers, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Newsman and Stud Loses Bet and Finds Love	In Carly Phillips book, \\"The Bachelor,\\" we are introduced to the Chandler brothers.  There is Chase Chandler who gave up his dreams to run the small town newspaper when his father died.  Then there is Rick, the middle brother, who was previously scorned in love and is a confirmed bachelor.  Lastly, Roman is the baby who comes home from his foreign correspondent job when their mother takes ill.  Little do they know that Raina plays on their sympathies by letting them believe her condition is much worse than it really is.  Her fondest wish is to see her boys settled and have grandkids.  The sons have a terrific idea to determine who will be the \\"lucky\\" person to fulfill Raina's dream.  Roman loses or wins (depending on your point of view).  <br />While back in the town that hasn't changed since he left, Roman starts to scout out potential wives.  That's the think about small towns...not much selection.  The one person he won't consider is Charlotte Bronson for the role.  She was the only one who rejected him in high school.  He is still confused by her actions because they had chemistry.  Charlotte's father had dreams of making it in Hollywood and left the family behind to pursue his dreams.  He came back after long absences only to leave again.  Roman's plan is to find a wife that won't mind him traveling to far off places and then cruise back into town to be a father and husband when it's convenient.  Knowing Charlotte's past, he refuses to hurt her.  The trouble is when they catch up with each other, there is that same pull.  <br />A subplot is there are burglaries going on in town and Charlotte's store is the common denominator.  Rick asks Roman to help him track down the thief.  The characters involved are colorful and quirky.  Since this is the first book in the series, you want to meet the townspeople so you know who they are for the next novels.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It delved into the emotions of relationships in a real way.  It was not overlyserious but I would not call it a romantic comedy.  It is similar to \\"Ally McBeal,\\" in that it falls somewhere in the middle.  I can't wait to start the next book in the series, \\"The Playboy\\" tonight.	2003-12-04
US	36709981	R1J8VKIKAGD464	0767915593	238389596	Straight Talking: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Rollercoaster Fiend Slows and Takes the Carousel	In Jane Green's \\"Straight Talk,\\" we find Tasha making bad relationship choices.  She goes for the quick and fast which invariably break her heart.  Bachelor number is Andrew...he loves...Andrew.  Being a TV producer for a top British morning show, Tasha is used to egos so she gives a lot more than she gets.  They were together (and one of those couples you love to hate) for a long time and it seemed to work until he wanted out.  Needless to say, there was another woman involved.  After this long relationship, Tasha sort of roams.  Thank goodness she has her best bud, Simon.  He is always there and they have such a good time together.  He's just too dependable and pedestrian compared to Tasha's  past men.  Also in the periphery is Simon.  He is a Hugh Grant type of bachelor...loads of fun but don't think of commitment.  <br />Once again Jane Green keeps me turning the pages.  She has become one of my favorite authors.  Her characters are glaringly imperfect which endears them to me.  I like reading about people who are on the path of self-destruction but find the epiphany.  If you enjoyed any of Jane's books in the past, this is one for the collection.  However, if you are considering reading one of her books, I would recommend Mr. Maybe or Bookends as a better start.  They are a little lighter and will get you hooked on Jane's writing style.	2003-12-04
US	36709981	R125Z4H2AEXKZ2	0451209710	468627713	The Dewey Decimal System of Love	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Quirky Romantic Comedy That Delivers	Josephine Carr's romantic comedy will leave you wondering how someone so talented could be known for writing in the suspense genre.  \\"The Dewey Decimal System of Love\\" was a treasure that I found among the tables of urban literature.  I was intrigued by the twist of the plot.  Ally is a sensual librarian who has been celibate for fifteen years.  <br />Meet Alison `Ally' Sheffield, the head reference librarian at the Free Library of Philadelphia.   She has a shield of propriety to protect her by day:  boring clothes, hair up, and a detached approach.  However, when she is on her own, she scoots around town in a sporty convertible, relaxes in her luxuriously restored apartment, and attends the Philadelphia Philharmonic.  The heart stopping change in Ally comes when she meets the new conductor of the Philharmonic, Aleksi Kullio.  To get closer to Aleksi, Ally volunteers to organize the music library that the Philharmonic has dumped into a storage room.  Imaging Ally's thrill when she comes across a letter between conductors that will aid Aleksi in the direction of his current symphony.  In a concurrent plot, Ally is assisting Aleksi's wife, Michelle, in doing research on a book she is writing.  Ally becomes suspicious that Michelle wants to kill to Aleksi, since she is researching poisons.<br />As any woman in love, Ally asks for assistance from her best friend, Suzanne.  Suzanne is currently a stay-at-home mom but was a lawyer in the not too distant past.  She agrees with Ally that Michelle is up to something, so she agrees to help Ally tail her.  Needless to say, mayhem occurs.  As the reader, you are given enough crumbs to keep you reading but not enough to see the big picture.  I like to be kept in the dark and guessing.  <br />With a cast of minor characters that keep Ally's life colorful, you want to see her happy.  She has a humanness about her that grabs you and keeps you interested even though she is unlike anyone you know.  Ms. Carr has a gifted prose and thestory flows even throughout the book.  I certainly hope she undertakes another romantic comedy since she successfully created a refreshing breath of air with this novel.	2003-12-02
US	36709981	R3AAHKYCEL2AYS	0399526277	807546626	What Southern Women Know (That Every Woman Should): Timeless Secrets to Get Everything you Want in Love, Life, and Work	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Sugar and Spice... and everthing nice!	While on a recent business to Tampa, I came across this book.  I thought it was a cute title and I needed a book for my flight home.  I completely fell under the spell of this book.  Most of the advice is good manners, taking care of yourself, and using the difference between the sexes.  As I was reading the sections, I often thought of my co-worker Kate.  She follows these `rules' to the T.  Having grown up in Florida, she is a true southerner.  Since we are in California, she is often teased about being conservative or old-fashioned in her thinking.  Kate is someone who literally has men (personally and professional) falling over her, so I can honestly say that the tips Ronda Rich talks about work.  I don't think of Kate as manipulative in any way but rather, she just gets it.<br />This book will appeal to those women who need a reminder in this day and age that it's ok to be feminine.  It certainly doesn't mean you are weak.  Unfortunately, I think if you do not subscribe to that basic thinking, you will not find this book useful.  As someone brought up by a mother who grew up in New York (Long Island) before heading out west, I found that many of the topics were things I was raised to do.  They are the items that fall under etiquette and that are so easy to let slide in our busy daily lives.  As women we instinctively put others first, which takes it's toll on us.  This book also reminds us to be good to ourselves.<br />Kate is now reading this book and we talk about the sections.  This was a fun and informative book!	2003-10-10
US	36709981	R2CZQROM7QGB0	0740727451	246177882	Swell Style: A Girl's Guide to Turning Heads (Swell Little Books)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Creative thoughts meet flight of fancy	This is a cute book with some fun tips.  Want to find a signature color...look at the three jellybeans at the bottom of your purse for inspiration.  This is a tongue in cheek book with some unusual ideas.  If your favorite childhood picture shows you wearing madras, revive your \\"groovy childhood self.\\"  For all the crazy suggestions, there are some genuine tips.  \\"Sometimes the best thing for your look is the piece you leave behind.\\"  In the looking pretty section, you get the lowdown on polish, personality, posture, compliments, and insults.  <br />If you are looking for a step-by-step book to pull yourself together, this will be too lacking for you.  This is more for the woman who is already on her way but wants some new ideas for divine afflatus.	2003-10-08
US	36709981	R2RDLM8GX039FM	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best surprise I've had in years!	This is the most beautifully written book I have ever read.  The language weaves a spell around you and the images described are breathtaking.  I have to admit this isn't my usual type of book.  The hype got to me so I broke down and got it.  Boy, am I glad I did!  <BR>It is such a treat to be swept away into a foreign land and given an insight into the culture and daily lives of its people.  This is a simply written book but it compliments the land, people, and story so well you don't mind.  <br />`The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency' begins with Precious Ramotswe and a modest moment.  It is an afternoon where Mma Ramotswe introduces us to herself and Botswana.   She is enjoying her time at her \\"only female detective agency\\" in Botswana.  The novel travels from the present to the past in such a fluid way; it makes you believe that stories could only be told in this way.  <br />Alexander McCall Smith creates a strong female character that is down-to-earth, while being intellectually and morally evolved.  Precious carries her client's problems as her own.  They instinctively become yours as you feel a part of her life.  She shares with us the beauty and tragedy of her beloved Botswana.   This country is lucky to have someone who loves it so much.  As we are introduced to the people in her life, don't be surprised if you end up feeling sorry of those don't take her advice.  Her logic defies comprehension and you find yourself agreeing with it without question.<br />It is a treat to find a character that you wouldn't mind being like.  Mma Ramotswe is worthy of imitation.  For a story that will tug at your heart and having you cheer Prescious' clever ways, I highly recommend this book.	2003-10-06
US	36709981	R1BLL648JZ4MTY	067131727X	705215710	Dinner Party Cookbook: Menus Recipes And Decorating Ideas For 21 Theme Parties	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Perfect addition to any cookbook collection	Karen Brown's book offers a terrific format for throwing parties.  The recipes are easy to follow and delicious.  I like the fact that the ingredients are common so you aren't searching various specialty stores to complete the ingredient list.  The themes are spread out throughout the year so it's easy to plan a party at the drop of a hat.  Not only does this book have lots of recipes, it goes into everything from suggested invitations, appropriate music and decorating ideas.  My only complaint is no pictures.  I admit I'm a fan of the glossy books and like to see the author's interpretation of what was said versus my ideas.  However, the book is so well done that I think you will refer to it over and over like I have.	2003-09-26
US	36709981	R3800G54AIXAZT	0446524565	397442743	Swell: A Girl's Guide to the Good Life	Books	5	6	7	N	N	If charm school is dead, this is the new manifesto	I thought this book was a blast to read.  There are such good tips from a wide-range of areas we encounter in life.  Let's face it, memorable women are those that can do for themselves when they need to.  For instance, under being a hostess, the authors go into how to handle bores, unexpected last-minute guests, and how get stains out items.  (It's not a party until someone drops or breaks something).  They even go over how to handle drunk guests.  The gratuity section discusses the difference between tipping and how to duke someone.  I live in a metropolitan city but had never had the need to learn this skill.  However should the need arise, I am confident I could accomplish this with aplomb.  <br />Since I enjoy entertaining, I particularly found those topics helpful.  Being known as someone with a quick smile and a good joke will keep getting you invited to parties.  Pulling off a memorable toast will elevate you to `star' status.  However, if you can converse and partake in party games, hail a cab, and flirt with the best of them...the world is your oyster.  There is an air of humor in all of the advice but who wouldn't want to feel like they are the shining star of the party as they spread their mojo around.  There are style tips, posture suggestions, walking advice, and even a breakdown on indulgences, like cavier and champagne.  <br />My thought is anytime you can polish your skills or learn new ones, go for it.  There is no more entertaining read to accomplish your goal than this.	2003-09-26
US	36709981	R33VF9V67J6G51	0452272351	659554412	Art of the Cocktail Party: The Complete Guide to Sophisticated Entertaining	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A must have for throwing the best cocktail parties!	Leslie Brenner's book is a terrific reference book for anyone who enjoys entertaining.  The book starts off with an outstanding recap of the history of cocktail parties.  The author includes tidbits like the most popular drinks from certain eras.  Who would have thought that the `cocktail dress' deserves it's own discussion?  <br />Like any good entertaining book, this one has loads of recipes.  They cover drinks, canapés, and hors d'ovres.  There are theme ideas if you want to go that route too.  I was surprised over the quantity of recipes listed, 130.  You could refer to this numerous times and not repeat a menu.  <br />As if the book isn't complete enough, there are also tips on the practical aspects of throwing a cocktail party.  They include the types of glasses to be used, suggested garnishes to have on hand, and musical suggestions.  There are few books I would consider handing out as a gift but this definitely is one.  <br />My only complaint is that it didn't have pictures.  I'm being picky here and it is not a reason not buy this book.  With that said, I wish you lots of fun as you plan your own cocktail party!	2003-09-26
US	36709981	R1R5C7SG199SQI	0312983298	412907251	Full Speed (Full Series)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Moving a step closer to a great series	`Full Speed' is the third installment of the series but only the second one of Max Holt &amp; Jamie Swift.  The story starts right where we left off from \\"Full Tilt.\\"  I like that we didn't miss any of the action.  Max and Jamie are hot on the trail of Harlan Rawlins.  He is a T.V. Evangelist who is somehow tied up into the attempts on their lives.  <br />Max and Jamie aren't together long before Max decides to send Jamie home (to keep her safe).  However, Jamie wants the story for her paper so she decided to continue on her own.  Since Max literally left her standing on the side of the road, Jamie purchases a beat-up truck with a surprise.  His name is Fleas, a bloodhound who comes with the truck.  He has his own personality, much like Muffin.  <br />As Max and Jamie go off to Sweet Pea, TN to resolve the mystery that started back in Beaumont, SC, they catch up with each other at the good Reverend's revival.  Jamie has decided that since Harlan has a weakness for women, she will get his attention to gain his trust.  Max meets up with her here and they start working together...again.<br />The tension was kept on low during this story.  I figure it's sort of like dating...things should be heating up after the third date (in this case the third book in the series) not cooling off.  Max and Jamie had their moments but nothing too electrifying.  I will continue to read this series but it hasn't made me crazy waiting for the next installment.  It's a good series but hard to settle for when the Plum series is SO incredible.  It has that something extra that is just missing from this series.	2003-09-25
US	36709981	R295HIUQ5XGKB7	031298328X	650761638	Full Tilt (Max Holt)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Still a middle of the road series but with lots of potential	Full Tilt bears no resemblance to the Stephanie Plum series. The mystery involved is light compared to the Plum series, so understand that from the beginning.<br />Maximillian Max Holt, which we were first introduced to in Full House, has grown up in a big way.  He is recently divorced from a Las Vegas stripper and wants to visit his sister Deedee.  Max has made millions in the computer industry (think Bill Gates kind of wealthy) and has some smaller business interests.  Being raised by his uncle Nick (from Full House), he has a thing for small town newspapers (Nick was the owner of a local newspaper).  He has become a silent partner in the Beaumont, SC local paper.  We find out that Deedee has moved there with her husband, Frank Fontana.  Frank is a former professional wrestler who is now running for mayor of Beaumont. Deedee is still the diva but she has a heart now that she has found true love.  <br />Upon his arrival, Max meets with Jamie Swift, who took over the paper since her fathers death.  Jamie and Max are like oil and water.  Max is flippant where Jamie is serious.  Jamie likes a routine and Max likes adventure.  Jamie is set to marry one of the towns biggest catches.  He is from old money.  Max is convinced that Jamie is making a mistake but doesnt think he can offer her what she wants.  Yet, he is the one she turns to when her life is in danger.  There is a murderer in the small town and the whole crazy cast of characters are involved.  The interactions are good but not very intense.  (Remember this story takes place in the south where everything develops slowly.)  <br />The best part of the story is Muffin.  She is a computer program Max created (with a sexy Marilyn Monroe inspired voice) that is sort of like Kit in Night Rider.  The difference is that she can assimilate new information, which leads her take on human characteristics.  I have to admit that I was a little unsure about the Muffin idea but by the end, she just became another character.  <br />The story was a set up for the next installment.  The futuristic aspects lend this to be much more campy than I expected.  However, the story was entertaining for what it wasa decent start to a potentially hot romantic romp.  The next story should be interesting to see if we get closer to that level.	2003-09-25
US	36709981	RTXUP1IUW1I	0312983271	746882277	Full House (Max Holt No. 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Full of promise that is not quite reached	`Full House' is a sweet romance.  I think that you will enjoy this book if you like light-hearted romantic stories.  The only comparison to the Stephanie Plum series is a group of quirky minor characters.  The mystery involved is light compared to the Plum series, so understand that from the beginning.  Something seems off about the story and it's probably due to the re-writing.  The story was revamped (which I wasn't aware of until after I read the book) and flow was two-stepping between flowing really well and being jerky.  <br />The story begins with Billie Pearce, a single mom who is enjoying time without her kids. She is a schoolteacher and plans on enjoying her summer.  She embarks on a summer of personal improvement by taking Polo lessons.  Billie is a strong and caring woman.  However, she is not good at Polo.  Her ineptitude endears her to Nick Kaharchek.  Nick is a good-hearted guy; a newspaper owner, the stable owner, and a true family man.  Nick takes care of his nephew, Maximillian `Max' Holt.  Max likes to live outside on his uncle's property.  He also likes to make homemade bombs and cause havoc.  (He's a genius who is bored).  As Nick and Billie become closer, she finds herself getting an unexpected roommate.  Nick's cousin, Deedee (Max's sister), is a self-absorbed celebrity.  She needs down time and is in a relationship with a professional wrestler, Frankie Fontana.  Deedee and Billie form an interesting relationship.  Deedee even tries to set Billie up with a friend of Frankie's, who is a professional wrestler.  Needless to say, Nick is having none of that!  <br />This book was entertaining for what it was...a campy, romantic, and mildly mysterious romp.  I look forward to the next in the series, if only to see if the characters develop in their full potential.	2003-09-25
US	36709981	R8GW4T5DIO9U7	0515134899	385176147	Body Check (New York Blades)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fun and Entertaining Read	Deidre Martin's first novel is a gem.  As a sports fan, it was fun to have the interweaving of the world of hockey in a romantic comedy.  Here's the breakdown:<br />PR miracle worker, Janna MacNeil, faces her biggest challenge.  Clean up the image of the Stanley Cup winning New York Blades to the satisfaction of their new (family oriented) owner.  (Think Disney owning the Ducks here).  To accomplish this feat, she needs to get them seen doing charity work and staying out of trouble.  In order to accomplish this, she needs the backing of the Blade's captain, Ty Gallagher.  <br />Ty is a man on a mission...to win another Stanley Cup.  He thinks that the owners only deserve his time on the ice.  He is the leader and it is his task to make sure the player's heads are all focused on the same prize.  When Janna approaches Ty, he flat-out refuses.  In his mind, PR is a distraction and not something he wants to be told what to do.  If he feels like helping, he'll do it on his own without media around.  Needless to say, sparks fly between Ty and Janna as they try to work together for the common good of the team.<br />The story makes you feel like you are part of the team for the entire season.  You meet the different players, the team's staff and the families.  The main subplot involves Janna's roommate, Theresa and is the topic for Ms. Martin's second book.  <br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book and can't wait to see if the next one holds up to the same standard.	2003-09-04
US	36709981	RG9XHTCY6PU6Z	0553586130	940788275	7 Days and 7 Nights	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Opposites Attract in this Mars vs. Venus Romp	Wendy Wax has created a gem for her first novel.  Dr. Olivia Moore has a morning talk show called \\"Liv Live.\\"  She helps callers with their problems.  Most of her callers are women.  Plus being a woman who has gone through a very public (think tabloids) divorce, she has a lot of experience to dwell from while helping her callers.  The radio station's late night show, \\"Guy Talk\\", hosted by Matt Ransom, seems to be the catalyst for the male callers to express their (perceived) women-biased opinions of \\"Dr. O.\\"  Matt really just wants to talk about football and cars but he finds himself giving out relationship advice.  Matt is voted \\"Atlanta's Most Eligible Bachelor\\" again (he has held the title since his arrival into Atlanta).  <br />The radio station, WTLK, is a smaller radio chain, twenty stations.  The suits have decided that \\"Guy Talk\\" and \\"Liv Live\\" are too expensive and they need to get rid of one.  Charles, WTLK's PR guru, has convinced the station manager, T.J., to pull a publicity stunt as a competition and food drive.  The two radio personalities will be locked up together for 7 days and nights.  Each will perform their show from the small apartment.  Also there will be a webcam (without Audio) for people to spy on them.  The goal is to get their listeners to donate money and food on behalf of their cause.  Matt and Dr. O aren't thrilled about this but each wants to continue their show.  <br />As they start living together, we learn all sorts of things about each of them.  Hummm... they used to work together in Chicago (back in the day).  I really like the way Ms. Wax didn't make Matt too obnoxious.  He is a typical guy whose motto is \\"relax and have fun.\\"  Dr. O was a little uptight but not so much that she can't benefit from Matt's philosophy.  Like any good relationship, they learn from each other.  The observations between the sexes were clever.<br />Another storyline was the story of Dawg and JoBeth.  Dawg was once an Atlanta Football player who was injured.  When we first meet them, they are living together and have been together for three years.  JoBeth wants to get married but Dawg's previous marriage has soured him on the idea.  Dawg calls into \\"Guy Talk\\" and gets told by Matt that he should have been up front with JoBeth about it never getting serious.  Meanwhile, JoBeth calls into Dr. O's show because she is confused.  Dr. O tells her to stop giving the milk away for free.  <br />Ms. Wax has woven two stories about how men and women communicate and see things.  Both stories struck the right balance between he said and she said.  Stereotypes are kept to a minimum and the humor pretty high.  My only complaint was the storyline between Matt and Dr. O after they left the apartment somehow seemed to float out there.  It got reeled in by the end but for about 50 pages it was just sort of out there not really connected to the rest of the story.  Overall, this was a very entertaining book.	2003-09-02
US	36709981	R1PWCV6W2J76HM	080411952X	480474378	The Unsung Hero (Troubleshooters, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Getting the Bad Guy &amp; The Girl	Tom Paoletti must take a 30-day leave or risk getting discharged from the Navy.  As commander of Unit 16, an elite Navy Seal team, he grudgingly agrees.  On his last mission, Lt. Tom (L.T.) sustained a head injury. Now that he has time to waste, he wants to go home to New England and visit his Uncle Joe.  While in the airport, he sees a man that reminds him of an assassin that is presumed dead.  Confused enough to doubt his own eyes after the accident, he calls his suspicion in to the Admiral.  The Admiral agrees to put out feelers about `The Merchant', but orders Tom to stay low.  <br />While home visiting, Tom runs into the one person who ever tempted him into staying in his small hometown, Dr. Kelly Ashton.  Kelly is the daughter of his Uncle Joe's best friend, Charles Ashton.  Charles was a wealthy local businessman who employed Joe after they met in WWII.  Upon Tom's return, he learns that Charles is dying of cancer and doesn't have more than three or four months.  Helping Kelly with Charles (while trying to perform inquiries about `The Merchant') brings up old and strong feelings for Tom.  However, more pressing matters lead L.T. to call in reinforcements to help in his search for an international killer.  <br />There are two subplots going on as well.  The first is the story of how Joe and Charles met during WWII.  I'm not a fan of flashback storytelling and this was not an exception here.  I found it distracting when I really wanted to spend time with Tom and Kelly's story.  Another story that better (keep your fingers crossed) inspire their own book is Mallory, Tom's niece, and David.  David meets Mallory when he asks her to be the face and body of the comic heroine he is creating.  Their story is weaved throughout the story and was one that I looked forward to reading about.  <br />Once again Suzanne Brockman has given us a thrilling page-turner.  Despite the historical flashbacks, I still felt this was worth reading.  The characters developed are Ms. Brockman's strong suit and this book is no exception.	2003-09-02
US	36709981	R17CYNXT16CC9V	0312265867	394337300	To the Nines: Stephanie Plum Novels	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Winner�and Without One Car Blowing Up!?!?!	Stephanie Plum just keeps getting better.  We now catch her getting all slick with Vaseline and chasing a lead to Las Vegas, while the people she talks to are dying.  Ranger would accompany her except he's having a disagreement with the State of Nevada over weapon's violation charges.  A girl can't go to Vegas alone (I think there is a state law outlawing such behavior) so Stephanie takes Lula and Connie.  <br />Another round of hilarious humor is delivered in this refreshing story.  (No cars get blown up, can you believe it???)  I literally had to set the book down numerous times, because I was laughing so hard I started crying.  There is just something about Lula and Stephanie that tickles the funny bone.  Lula plays a stronger role in this installment, while our regular cast of crazies take a backseat.  It seems other readers have complained that Grandma Mazur wasn't showing her usual antics.  However, I enjoyed the break.  This book is full of things outside the typical Plum formula but it kept me interested.  Getting to know Joe's family was a pleasant surprise.  <br />Joe and Ranger are around to help protect Stephanie.  Joe is in a lot of scenes but seems more subdued this time around.  It's almost like Stephanie has broken him in and he is immune to her antics.  He moves Stephanie in for protection since she is involved in something they can't quite figure out.  Ranger is still in the picture and works with Joe (in shifts) to protect her.  It's quite a good thing going for Stephanie (and us) to watch her the situation with her two protectors.    <br />My only complaint is Stephanie REALLY needs to visit the Batcave (hopefully for an extended period of time but I'll take what I can get)!!!!	2003-09-02
US	36709981	R3RFPWP6MA2O5X	0385335849	705219353	Remind Me Again Why I Married You	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not the follow-up I expected	Rita Ciresi's continuation of _Pink Slip_ will undoubtedly be met with fanfare.  The first novel where we saw Lisa struggle to grow up and all that entails has transported us into the future, five years later.  The ending of the first novel felt abrupt to me so starting up again five years later was frustrating.  As I was reading _Remind Me Again Why I Married You_, I tried to remember why I liked the first novel so much.  (All the honesty, the relationships between Lisa and her family, and Eb's endearing but goofy ways)  Well, the honesty remains but it didn't reach me the same, kind of like seeing it everyday for five years.  Gone are the family members who would have been a great resource for exploring married life.  It was like Lisa and Eben were on their own.  I miss the old characters.  Eb's quirky traits just seem so middle-aged here.  The honesty was here but somehow not a revealing.  <br />The book is told in alternating voices between Lisa and Eben.  I like the idea of that but it wasn't pulled off completely.  Lisa had so much moxy and life in Pink Slip that she seems to have sold out here.  Maybe that is the intent.  Not once did Lisa and Eben show that they grew to love each other.  I was disappointed but there's the honesty card coming up again.  Not once did I think about not completing the book.  I wanted to see where Rita was headed.  I may not like the transportation but the trip was worth it.  Just because the story isn't what I wanted it to be, Rita Ciresi stayed true to what her story for Eben and Lisa was.	2003-08-26
US	36709981	R2JF6F40STPRAB	0440241162	273850052	Nerd in Shining Armor	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great One Liners From A Hillbilly	\\"Nerd in Shining Armor\\" is perfect fluff for a lazy day.  Vicki Lewis Thompson captures human stereotypes with characters having a quick wit, a humanness about them, and absurd situations.  Good comedy comes from exaggerations and this book uses that technique to hook us in from the first chapter.<br />Genevieve Terrence is the perfect employee and a good daughter.  She tracks her companies' invoices and has caught the eye of one of the companies' partners, Nick Brogan.  Nick is notorious for taking a secretary on a business trip (for a nights worth of fun).  When Nick asks Genevieve to go with him to Maui, she thinks that this is a good idea.  Her mother, Annabelle, is worried about her little girl.  She thinks Genevieve's idea about getting Nick to settle down is hogwash but then again, she didn't make the best choices either. Annabelle let two fast-talking handsome men seduce her.  Each seduction led to a baby, Genevieve and her fourteen-year-old brother, Lincoln.<br />Genevieve loves the sacrifices that her mother for herself and Lincoln.  Annabelle received an unusual family inheritance and was able to move her kids away from the backwoods of Hollow, Tennessee.  She thought Hawaii was pretty far and since her family won't fly, they wouldn't be coming for visits.  Genevieve still lives at home and helps her mom out with her brother.  The family has tried hard to integrate into the Hawaiian culture.  This includes not talking with twangs or country phrases.<br />The only problem with her seduction plan that Genevieve can see is a co-worker coming along.  Jackson Farley has had a crush on Genevieve since the first day he started working in the company.  He has been intimidated with her cool composure.  It doesn't help that he has a minor medical condition that makes him appear goofy at times.  Luckily, it's nothing serious and can be compensated for by a good tracking system.  Jackson is glad that he will be on the trip to help \\"Gen\\" as she gets over her impendingheartbreak.<br />The trip turns into a huge adventure for the whole family.  Nick is not really going to Maui and Gen and Jackson are thrust into a life and death situation.  As we know from the movie \\"Speed\\" with Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock, intense situations makes for strong emotions.  The same is true for Gen and Jackson.  Jackson is transformed into \\"Jack\\" the assertive guy who is Gen's savior.  Gen on the other hand reverts back to her twang and hillbilly ways.  Annabelle and Lincoln hook up with Nick's partner (and Gen &amp; Jack's other boss), Matt Murphy.  Matt rents a cruiser, while Lincoln channels his sister's presence; this quirky family captivates him.<br />This is a story mostly about romance but with a dash of mystery to keep you on your toes.	2003-08-18
US	36709981	R18T5HBZYBHLIJ	1573223573	848656052	What Not to Wear	Books	4	32	34	N	N	If you love the show, here are the rules!	I love the show on BBC America.  This is the reason I got the book.  It's nice to have a reference for the tips they give since I can't seem to remember them all.  The pictures really help visualize the worst vs the best look.  <br />A plus that I found helpful is that they list multiple options to correct problems.  Who wants to feel like they only can wear one type of clothing!?!?!  Another great feature is the list of shops to find the clothes you want.  Fab idea!!!  Lastly, the book is thin enough to tuck away and take with you to the stores.  <br />The reason I didn't give this a five is albeit, some picky things.  First, patterns weren't realy discussed at length.  It would have been nice if they addressed things like stipes (horizontal & vertical), plaids, geometrics, paisley, etc.  Also they could have grouped the worsts together to show how to cover multiple issues.  Like a big butt and a big bust.  Instead they are in individualized sections.  Plus color combinations would have been helpful. They have an eye for colors that I wouldn't necessarily think to put together.	2003-08-18
US	36709981	R2TPDFI7NLMV0M	0060512377	248692245	Does She or Doesn't She?	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Sophmore Mini-Slump	Alisa Kwitney's second novel isn't a crafty as The Dominant Blonde.  The book starts each chapter with the main character's secret fantasies.  Unfortunately, I think it takes away from the potential of what the story could have been.  There were just too many of them.  <br />Delilah Levine has a husband who shows minimal attention to her and a daughter who seems pretty well adjust considering the fact she has a flaky mother.  Delilah becomes attracted to her new plumber, Ford.  He spends a lot of time at the crazy Levine house \\"fixing\\" the building's pipes.  As her life goes out of control, Delilah finds herself spending more time with Ford.  Her husband, Jason, is a corporate lawyer at a company that is developing a new aphrodisiac called Biosensual.  <br />Delilah finds her husband's notes on the top-secret project on the backside of the soap opera script she just submitted.  Well, the producers love her \\"long\\" notes and want her to flush out a corporate espionage storyline around the aphrodisiac drug.  After she shares with her husbands boss her great story idea, accidents keep happening to her.  <br />With Ford's help, Delilah gets to the bottom.  However, you will be thrown for a loop as well.  Much of the story comes at you from behind a corner.  Overall, a good read.	2003-08-16
US	36709981	R1ULQMFPB7N0N2	0451208862	78764489	Dead Girls Don't Wear Diamonds (Blackbird Sisters Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	5	41	42	N	N	No Sophmore Slump Here!!!	Nancy Martin's second book in the Blackbird series is another winner.  We pick up the story the next fall.  Libby is close to her due date, Emma has decided to buy a horse and train herself, and Nora gets involved in another murder.<br />At a celebration party for Oliver Cooper (He was nominated for the next Department of Transportation Secretary), Nora runs into her college boyfriend, Flan Cooper.  After an innocent private talk, Flan's wife, Laura, finds them and thinks the worst.  Nora talks to Laura and finds out she and Flan are having trouble.  During their conversation, Nora notices that Laura has changed her appearance to resemble her.  Nora's talk to Laura ends with the understanding that Nora is not interested in Flan any longer.<br />The next day, Emma tells Nora that Laura was found dead...an apparent suicide.  Flan asks Nora for help; since he can't image his wife would kill herself and realized that he is the prime suspect.  Nora starts to snoop around and gets a picture of Laura that she can't believe.  Laura is known with the estate crowd as a jewelry thief.  <br />There is a new cast of supporting characters, which give this book a different flavor than the last.  They are still eccentric so you'll be entertained.  Michael is around and ends up helping Nora with her mad capers.  <br />This was a great second story with a stronger mystery than the first novel.  I can't wait for the next story.	2003-08-13
US	36709981	R2DOA94VLMH9FP	0451207246	862475559	How to Murder a Millionaire (Blackbird Sisters Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Solving A Murder With Vintage Style	If you like Jennifer Cruise or Janet Evanovich books, you'll love Nancy Martin's series.  There is a cast of quirky people, a mini-mystery to solve, and lots of great banter.  <br />Nora Blackbird finds herself at thirty-one, having to work for the first time in her life.  She and her two sisters grew up among the high society of Philadelphia.  The Blackbird name is know for being around since the Civil War, for the \\"curse\\" of the Blackbird women, and always providing the rumor mills for ripe gossip.  When Nora's parents left the U.S. for a sunnier locale (and for tax evasion), they split the remains of the family fortune among their three daughters.  Libby, the eldest and mother earth type, received the family furniture.  Nora, the middle daughter was left with the original family estate (and a two million dollar property tax bill, hence her need to find employment).  Emma, the baby of the family, owns the families' multi-million dollar art collection.  <br />Nora asks a longtime family friend, Rory Pendergast, for a job at his newspaper.  Rory has a special place for the Blackbird sister's and hires Nora to work under the cities most feared gossip columnist, Kitty Keough.  Kitty is non too happy at Nora's new position.  Since this position will not make much of a dent in the tax bill, Nora is forced to sell off some acres of ancestral land.  She sells it Michael \\"The Mick\\" Abruzzuo, who reportedly is related to a New Jersey crime family.  <br />While on assignment at a party at Rory's house, Nora stumbles upon Rory's dead body.  The lead homicide detective, Lt. Bloom, thrusts her into the investigation.  He needs someone who understands the ways of the elite.  Nora continues to investigate long after the police are finished with her help.  Along the way, Michael becomes an ally.  Nora is careful not to ask him questions that she doesn't want to know the answers to.  As the investigation continues, Emma and Libby disappear.  There is a cast of hysterical characterswho come out of the woodwork to add to the flavor of the story.  Nancy Martin gives us plenty of twists and turns to keep us guessing.  Her storyline keeps you interested the entire way through.	2003-08-12
US	36709981	R42N8DR2LQ4B8	0373250274	46887746	See Jane Date	Books	3	0	2	N	N	This Story Will Seem Familiar	As the lead character, Jane Gregg, is pleasant and like so many of the heroines of chick-lit.  She is stuck on the cusp of entry level and working to make it to the next step as an associate editor.  She has worked hard for the last six years and deserves her due.  Unfortunately, I didn't feel all that strongly about Jane's cause.  We all have to &quot;pay our dues&quot; and some industries take a little longer.  I would have liked to have seen some incident that we as readers could rally around this hardworking and intelligent woman who was unjustly treated.  As it stood, antipathy is all I felt.<br />Basically, Jane needs a date for her cousins wedding at the Plaza Hotel in NYC.  Since her last long term boyfriend, who broke her heart and is now engaged, Jane has been on a rollercoster of dates.  After a conversation with her Aunt Ida that leads to the refusal to be set-up on a blind date for the wedding, Jane makes up a boyfriend.  She enlists the help of her friends of the &quot;Flirt Night Roundtable&quot; in finding eligible men.  As the clock ticks, she finds Dr. Timothy Rommely.  By this point her &quot;boyfriend&quot; lives in a brownstone near the park and is a doctor so how convenient that she find Timothy.  Jane puts all her eggs in one basket so you can imagine what happens.<br />The best part of the book was Jane's relationship with her high school nemesis, Natasha Nutley...aka &quot;Gnat.&quot;  Jane's boss is out on maternity leave and she gets the chance to work with Natasha on a steamy tell-all about sleeping with an A list movie star for three weeks.  Gnat turns out to be a joy to work with and not what Jane seems to remember.  Jane carried with her the past from high school, which is what so many people do.  All the same routines and feelings of inferiority plague Jane but Gnat seems to have grown.  Jane starts to let go after Gnat is a dream to work with.  Jane comes to learn about how life was like for Gnat growing up and the two end up friends.  Gnat turns out to be the best-developed character in the book and her interactions with Jane is what kept me reading.<br />This is a good book to pick up for light reading.  Enjoy it for its humor, whacky characters and charm.	2003-07-21
US	36709981	RNIS96L968TMT	0375759689	143588783	The Cooking Club Cookbook: Six Friends Show You How to Bake, Broil, and Bond	Books	5	7	10	N	N	To Meet, To Talk, and To Eat ...Life Is Good	The idea of a cooking club with a group of friends is terrific.  Too many times we grow apart from those close to us as marriage, kids, and careers occur.  I first saw this book about six months ago.  I have a collection of cookbooks but am particular of what I add to it.  Before I bought it for myself, I decided to give it as a gift.  One of my closest friends from high school recently became a stay at home mom.  She was trying to broaden her culinary skills in the kitchen and she doesn't consider herself much of a cook.  She loves the cookbook and can't thank me enough.  I went out and purchased it so we could share the club even though the miles separate us.  <br />The layout of the book starts with a recap of how the club came into existence.  The troubles they face living in NY, tiny kitchens and lugging groceries, was interesting to someone like myself who never is without her car.  I particularly enjoyed the emails between the women showing how they came up with the monthly theme.  It really shows the personalities of the members.  The pictures show off the food deliciously.  <br />We can only hope that they will continue to include the rest of us in their club!  I highly recommend you try to gather a group of 6-8 and try this yourself.  My favorite recipe is the bread salad.  I get lots of compliments every time I make it.	2003-07-21
US	36709981	R2PDENETKQ0MUU	0451410580	271939084	Jake & Mimi	Books	1	13	14	N	N	Don't Waste Your Time or Money	It's a surprise others have been so generous towards this book.  Usually, I'm the one to be positive when a book has let me down but I honestly can't recommend this.  The story is marketed as a 9 1/2 week thriller but it missed it's marked.  <br />The first mistake is noted in other reviews...poor character development.  Jake's character is tolerable if Mimi's wasn't so weak.  You never get the feeling as to what makes her tick or motivates her to the voyeristic behavior she increasingly displays.  Just when you think the book could salvage itself (by having Jake &amp; Mimi get together and finding out the results) it doesn't happen.  The ending was such a yawner that I barely registered the words.  By that point, I just wanted to finish the book.<br />I don't like wasting my time and money to be disappointed when it could have been so promising.	2003-07-09
US	36709981	R18WRGAZ88HI4K	0786869186	98507536	A Patriot's Handbook: Songs, Poems, Stories, and Speeches Celebrating the Land We Love	Books	5	12	15	N	N	I Feel Patriotic Just Owning This Book	I first heard about this book after Caroline Kennedy was interviewed.  Being that it was the week before the 4th of July made me think that it would be a nice book to have around for the holiday weekend.  <br />I would consider myself a would-be patriot.  My intention is to always be proud of our countries history.  It's just hard when you have gaps in your knowledge of the little things that shaped our country.  Democracy is such a grand experiment that we take for granted that we are all part of it's evolution each and every day.  This book reminds us of the major and inspirational steps in our growing process.<br />The collection is seperated into categories.  The first one is Flag and contains poems, stories, and US Supreme Court cases involving our national flag.  It's one thing to know the first stanza of the Star Spangled Banner and sing it at baseball games but how many people can recite the entire thing or even know that there is more to it.  <br />The flow of the book makes it easy to read a little at a time.  You'll find yourself picking it up and read a couple of pages.  History can be so stoic but in this format, it is alive with the men and woman who came before us.  <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is searching to learn or remember what being an American really means.	2003-07-09
US	36709981	R2WU6X2ZEIEWD	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	What's A Girl To Do?	Well, if you're Stephanie Plum it's time to take charge of your life.  After her career as a lingerie buyer (for a supplier cheesier than Fredrick's of Hollywood), Stephanie finds herself without any more possessions to hawk off.  Her mother suggests she go work for her cousin, Vinnie, at his bail bonds company.  Of course, Stephanie doesn't want the filing job...she wants to be a Bounty Hunter.  <br />The cast includes lots of quirky characters that keep you entertained.  Stephanie hooks up with a seasoned BH named Ranger to learn the ropes.  He takes her under his wing but your left wanting him to take her other places...  Stephanie also comes back into the life of Joe Morelli.  He is a vice cop and they have a history that stared when she was six and he was eight.  (Not to mention the fact that she lost her virginity to him)Between these two men of honor, she gets the assistance she needs to apprehend the bad guys.  To get her daughter over more often, Stephanie's mom bribes her with desserts.  The dialogues at these dinners are snappy and laugh out loud funny.  <br />Janet Evanovich has created a suspense-ridden romp that grabs you by the shirt and drags you in for a wild ride.	2003-04-09
US	36709981	R2R97SKE0YD48V	0385335830	41523586	Diary of a Mad Bride	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Marching Down The Isle and Into Insanity	Laura Wolf's first book is over the top and humorous in that \\"I just hit my funny bone and it hurts but I'm laughing,\\" way.  Amy Sarah Thomas is a woman who is convinced that she will never marry so she has been preparing everyone in her life for that fact.  Amy is \\"not the marrying kind.\\"  Needless to say when she gets engaged to Stephen Stewart, her family and friends are surprised and react with dismay.  Amy doesn't take this well and feels that she is being plotted against by the universe, bridal shops, shoe stores, and her Gram.  As she reacts to more crises than the UN Secretary General, it is fun watching her self-inflicted pain and realization that she is turning into (gasp!) one of those brides.<br />Amy's obsession to find the \\"perfect\\" items for her wedding can be appreciated to anyone who has either been a bride, bridesmaid, or groom.  Grooms will no doubt find this helpful to explain why daisies can NOT be substituted for flowering ginger (a particular issue between Amy and Stephen). As someone who has never been a bride, I have been a bridesmaid numerous times.  Each bride has their own hell to go through over their wedding and some brides take you into the fire with them and some like Amy try to go it alone (until the flames get too warm, which always happens).  I'm sure some brides-to-be would not appreciate viewing themselves in this light, so my recommendation is that if you are not 100% under control of your wedding (you hired a wedding planner) you may wish to shelve this book until the honeymoon is over and your bridesmaids have forgiven you.  <br />Amy does not represent all brides and Laura Wolf did not write her be the case study for all women.  Rather, Amy is typical of a woman's desire to do her best at everything important to her and what could be more important than marrying the man you love.  This is something I think all women can relate to and that's why I think you'll enjoy reading this book.  It is campy, uncomfortable in its truth about us, and heartwarming in its conclusion.	2003-01-22
US	36709981	R3O1BUZII9490W	0373250169	255773259	L. A. Woman (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	You Never Know What You Can Do Until You Are Forced To Try	Cathy Yardley's debut book is not going to set the literary world on fire but it may keep you snuggled in bed for the day or night. This is a quick read which everyone needs once in a while. <br />The story begins with Sarah Walker a twenty-five year old who thinks she has it all figured out. (Didn't we all at 25!?!?!) She is engaged to her college beau, Benjamin, and has agreed to move to L.A. to set up house for them, while Benjamin ties up loose ends in Northern California. Unbeknown to Sarah, they have picked an apartment in West Hollywood. Since Benjamin has not arrived due to having trouble with his work transfer, Sarah is the one to learn firsthand that West Hollywood is a colorful place to live. After a row with her finance, Sarah goes in search of dinner to console herself that Benjamin isn't moving for at least three months. As luck would have it, this is where she meets Taylor and endears herself to him. Taylor takes Sarah under his wing and helps her find a roommate, Martika. <br />Sarah and Martika forge a friendship that originally grates on each other but ends up fulfilling a void that each woman has. Sarah learns from Martika to be more self reliant and confident. Sarah finally tells off a horrendous boss after her character grows into her new skin. Martika on the other hand stops thinking about how she can help people, how she can take care of the situation and learns to let go of the past to live in the present.<br />The story flows as these two women learn from each other. I like the fact that for the most part, these two characters are bound together in sisterhood. It's nice to read about characters who are not constantly competing with each other and can openly disagree but not be vindictive. By calling this a \\"coming of age\\" story I feel that I'm shortchanging the intent of Ms. Yardley...I think this is more of a \\"coming of consciousness\\" which means much more. Be prepared for the story making a full circle and seeing if Sarah makes the same mistake twice.	2003-01-22
US	36709981	R2HETRN0ZABHUK	068481465X	563982708	Home Comforts: The Art and Science of Keeping House	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Keeping House, Not Playing House	Cheryl Mendelson is my new hero.  So long Bridget Jones and Neglia Lawson.  This book is so well put together and researched that it is going to become THE book for people to reference about keeping house, like What to expect when you're expecting is to pregnant couples. Like most people, my mother and father weren't the Cleavers.  I found myself, a single woman, owning my own home with minimal skills for the job.  I've been looking for help and until I read Home Comforts, I felt like nothing was meeting my needs.  This book will surpass your wildest dreams of how and why things need to be cleaned, looked after or organized.<br />The book starts with Ms. Mendelson's story about how she came about writing this book.  My own grandmothers came from different camps on how to keep a house.  One had six sons (my father included) who learned how to run a house (using the daily, weekly, monthly and seasonal cleaning methods) as though they were daughters.  There was nothing they were too proud to do.  Whereas my other grandmother did everything herself (unless if fell into my grandfathers realm of fixing) and thought it insulting to have her children do what was her responsibility.  Needless to say, my mother didn't have the skills to run her own house except for what she observed and learned from my father.  Ms. Mendelson's story is about her Italian and Anglo-Saxon heritage.  The history of how people have gotten away from the activities of running a house effectively helps you take a look at where you get your ideas from about homemaking.<br />The premise of  Home Comforts seems a bit antiquated but it is more important today than ever.  Think about it...how many men do you know who \\"putter\\" around the house or women who have a cleaning schedule for the days of the week.  Initially, it reminded me of when I was a girl and had different underwear with the days marked on them.  It was very regimented and made me feel guilty if I deviated from the correct day.  However, Ms. Mendelson shows us by having a plan to keep our homes clean and healthy, our quality of life will increase.  The amazing part is that she includes the benefits of flexibility and takes into account our busy lives.  These skills were passed down and somehow got lost in the \\"liberation\\" of women.  I remember when as a seventeen year old, we took a trip to see my Aunt.  She was a stay at home mother and took pride in keeping her house and cooking the family meals.  I thought at the time that her life seemed so sad because she was tied down by chores (which seemed like boring and unnecessary work).  Now, I realize that I missed out on sharing something special with the women who helped shape my life, since it was not the politically correct thing to do.  (Just who thought that is in question here.)<br />This book will help anyone who wants to learn the rationale behind why chores are necessary.  Besides giving practical teachings of how to do them, this book is about having all the facts so you can make the best decisions for your life.  It is not militant but more overwhelming since I didn't have the background of what I should be doing.  Additionally, I have bought this book for all my friends and the feedback is positive.  I've only just started my pilgrimage to house discovery so I wish you luck and good reading!s. Mendelson shows us by having a plan to keep our homes clean and healthy, our quality of life will increase.  The amazing part is that she includes the benefits of flexibility and takes into account our busy lives.  These skills were passed down and somehow got lost in the \\"liberation\\" of women.  I remember when as a seventeen year old, we took a trip to see my Aunt.  She was a stay at home mother and took pride in keeping her house and cooking the family meals.  I thought at the time that her life seemed so sad because she was tied down by chores (which seemed like boring and unnecessary work).  Now, I realize that I missed out on sharing something special with the women who helped shape my life, since it was not the politically correct thing to do.  (Just who thought that is in question here.)   <br />This book will help anyone who wants to learn the rationale behind why chores are necessary.  Besides giving practical teachings of how to do them, this book is about having all the facts so you can make the best decisions for your life.  It is not militant but more overwhelming since I didn't have the background of what I should be doing.  Additionally, I have bought this book for all my friends and the feedback is positive.  I've only just started my pilgrimage to house discovery so I wish you luck and good reading!	2003-01-22
US	36709981	R3CJB1EH3VAMR5	155166948X	34594744	Prince Joe (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 1)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Patriotic Seduction	This is the first book by Suzanne Brockmann that I have read and I thoroughly enjoyed the experience.  As a single woman in San Diego, I am familiar with the &quot;boys&quot; who grace our city.  Additionally, I was luck enough to have a roommate who was the Public Affairs Office (PAO) for the Seal training center, &quot;Buds.&quot;  I know some Seals firsthand and the characters depicted are as real as these men.  Suzanne Brockmann has done her research!  They are unassuming and down-to-earth like &quot;Prince&quot; Joe but carry an amazing ability to assimilate into all types of situations.<br />Our heroine, Ronnie, is a publicist for a small European country who is trying to get US aid to drill for oil.  While on a US goodwill tour, an assassination attempt is made on the Prince.  As a result, Ronnie is to create a prince out of a New York bred Navy Seal, Joe Catalanotto.  This doesn't appear an easy task, except Ronnie doesn't know much about the Seals and how they are trained to absorb any role asked of them.<br />If you liked the movies, &quot;Dave&quot;, &quot;Top Gun&quot; and &quot;Romancing the Stone&quot; this book creates some of the same warm and fuzzy feelings.  Plus you get a bonus of learning about the awe- inspiring jobs that the Seals do for our country.	2002-12-23
US	36709981	R5N3XGM963RLU	0553493981	828205732	Recruited: An Alias Prequel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The Making Of A Super Agent	Let's be honest...Only die-hard fans of the show will bother looking at this book.  The beginning of the story gives us a glimpse of life from Syd's world.  She is self-aware of her flaws, but it is those characteristics that we identify with as viewers.  I agree with some of the other reviewers that the book was geared towards young adults but it didn't really bother me nor did I find that it took away from Syd's story.  <br />Beginning with the college years, gives you a baseline of how Syd has grown.  As you read about Francie, you can just see her flitting around Westwood, chatting up the guys, and hearing about all the parties.  She is definitely a girl who doesn't let the grass grow under her feet.  On the show, she has matured from this but basically is still the go-getter from her early days.  If I remember correctly, Syd and Francie met Will at UCLA yet he is not discussed at all in the book.  Also, there was no mention of Danny Hecht, her deceased fiancé. (With this show, you never know and he may show up as an agent from another agency)<br />I thought the story of her rise within SD-6 was interesting for the most part.  It really sets the reader for additional books on the years prior to the show.  The \\"boring\\" years of doing intel reporting wasn't too descriptive and we didn't hear too much of her personal life during this time.  However, once she is brought into the heart of SD-6, it picks up momentum.  Her interest of Noah Hicks, another SD-6 agent, is the first time we see how these two met.  The story stops before they start dating, which we know they do from the show. There are minimal details about Dixon, except to introduce him.<br />In all, the story was entertaining and a quick read.  There was room for additional info but I guess they want to save more for the next book(s). Syd's character is true to the show and nothing rang false as I read the book.  It would be fun to have a few flashback episodes that would cover these years.	2002-11-21
US	36709981	REP7SMXPGGOA0	0399147381	304671626	Hemlock Bay (FBI Thrillers, No. 6)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Will the REAL Catherine Coulter please stand up!?!?	I just finished reading this book over the last three days and I feel like I wasted valuable personal time.  This latest installment of Savich & Sherlock was a real disappointment.<br />The story finds our daring duo on the trail of a serial killer who is either male or female, has supernatural skills and can only be seen in her true form by secret agent man, Dillon Savich.  I've never been a fan of mixing supernatural hocus-pocus with suspense.  It never seems to add to the believability.  Are their killers who seem superhuman and are hard to catch...of course but magically disappearing from crime scenes is lame.  It also gives our hero and heroine less validity as top crime fighters.<br />The major reason to keep reading the book is the sub-plot of Lily Frasier's stolen artwork.  Lily is Dillon's sister and has survived an abusive husband, her daughter's death, a new marriage where she has supposedly tried to commit suicide twice, and just had her grandmother's paintings stolen.  Enter a college friend of Dillon's, Simon Russo.  He is an art broker and helps Lily track down the true whereabouts of her grandmother's paintings.  I liked the underworld of forged and stolen art by ruthless collectors.  This really should have been the story.  <br />I hope that the next installment is written with more care since this is definitely the weakest book in the series so far.	2002-10-31
US	36709981	R2PELYAY3VZLDF	0060185201	973308970	The Ex-Boyfriend Cookbook: They Came, They Cooked, They Left (But We Ended Up with Some Great Recipes)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	That Which Doesn't Kill Us, Leaves Us With Great Recipes!	I heard the authors being interviewed on NPR and knew I had to get this book! They share stories from all stages of their lives, add great recipes and always make you wonder if a woman really had to endure these males. During the interview, they came clean that not all the stories came from them, but some happened to a 'freind-of-a-friend'. The fun part is trying to figure out which is which. <br />Knowing that the two most powerful things in most of our lives are food and love, this is a clever twist on short stories. Each story has a complimentary recipe associated with it. All I have to say is you are bound to met interesting men while working at farms. (You'll have to read the stories) Who would have thought it could be such a pick-up place?!?!? <br />I highly recommend this crafty culinary romp for the recipes and the stories. They will make you laugh, cringe, shake your head in belief (yes, not disbelief)and hungry!	2002-08-02
US	36709981	R2N4BGMHP8OA51	0060083298	429568377	Dominant Blonde, The	Books	5	18	18	N	N	SUN, DIVING, MYSTERY &amp; A ROMP	I found myself in the bookstore, a half-hour before I needed to meet someone.  I didn't really need another book but I just couldn't resist browsing.  I came upon a table of books with a sign saying, &quot;Urban Literature.&quot;  All the books had covers that clearly screamed, &quot;Chick Lit&quot;, so I was skeptical of this perceived name change.  It seemed to me that someone decided that the current genre name wasn't serious enough and it needed more mass appeal.  I found Alisa Kwitney's book &quot;The Dominant Blonde&quot; there.<br />Lydia Gold is an enigma.  Her bleached blonde hair, curvaceous figure, and doe eyes make people want to protect her because they think she has no brains.  As one of the characters share, &quot;All (I) had discovered was that she looked and spoke like a glass of Hollywood champagne but she went down like the best Irish whiskey.\\"  <br />If only Lydia had taken her Grandmother's advice about trusting a man: you must know how he spends his money, how he holds his drink, and how he loses his temper.  When we meet Lydia she has finally taken this advice.  Amazingly, she finds a man like none before.  Abe is so taken with Lydia that she overlooks the lack of passion in their relationship; it burns out after all. <br />While on vacation in Epiphany, Abe goes out diving solo from the dive group.  Lydia gets concerned so she gets the captain, Liam MacNally to help look for him.  Abe is missing.  As Lydia is dealing with tragedy, she finds out Abe has taken three million dollars from her parent's business.  Lydia starts putting clues together while cozying up with Liam.<br />Liam is written as a man with intimate knowledge of how women think.   Alisa Kwitney's portrayal of men and women was astounding.  I thought she nailed it truer than any other author.  The dialogue between Lydia and Liam was so honest and insightful.  If only other writers could capture this, we would have higher quality books all the way around.  <br />This is sleeper that doesn't seem to have been marketed, which is unfortunate.  &quot;The dominant blonde&quot; is by far my favorite book this year.  I now know why the bookstore called that table &quot;Urban Ligature.&quot;  This is a straight up good read with more substance than your typical &quot;Chick Lit&quot; book.  I grudgingly bow to their prowess.	2002-07-27
US	36709981	R3MG4V89TYFFBI	0061042935	537116893	Everywhere That Mary Went	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Secrecy That Seduces From The Beginning!	Lisa Scottoline's first novel is quite an accomplishment.  A story that is gripping and gives you clues but not in an obvious way.  I was surprised until the \\"big revelation.\\"  The characters are not super-human.  They are regular people which lends to the authentic feel.<br />Mary DiNuzio is a litigator on the fast track to partnership in a top lawfirm in Philly.  Mary has thrown herself into her work after her husband's unexpected death.  We are first endeared to Mary as she is asked to sing by a judge during a hearing.  She wins the motion on her arguement but this shows her understanding of how the game is played.  <br />She starts to get the feeling that someone is watching her. Mary starts getting notes and calls where no one speaks but is still on the phone.  A suspicious car is also seen frequently as Mary goes around down.  Eventually the police are called but they don't really believe her accusations. <br />Mary has a male secretary named Brent.  He keeps her sane, safe, and on track to make partner.  Mary's best friend, Judy, is also concerned about the calls, notes, and car following Mary.  They work together to figure out who is sending notes to Mary and following her around in car.  <br />There are glimpes of Mary twin sister, Angie, and her parents.  A new love interest, from the lawfirm , keeps us guessing about his motives.  <br />These characters are woven around Mary like a cocoon.  The pacing of the activites are so craftly written.  Watching the story unfold is like driving in traffic.  Sometimes you feeling like you're moving along, the next minute you're getting cutoff, and lastly you just don't move.  A wonderful mystery for those who enjoy a challange.	2002-07-12
US	36709981	R2KMOVU4XOEVNF	0312974256	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Harper Valley PTA Meets Thelma & Louise	Jennifer Crusie has a way with words, scenes, characters, & connecting with her audience.  \\"Welcome To Temptation\\" starts as Sophie and Amy Dempsey drive into Temptation.  Think of Mayberry but with residents on an acid trip; Ordinary things have a surreal affect.  <br />Phin Tucker is depicted as the reasonable third-generation mayor.  He befriends Sophie and Amy as they film their \\"documentary\\" on the local star that has returned to her roots, Clea.  He knows something is up but can't quite put his finger on it.  As a result, he keeps a close eye on Sophie.  While Wes, the town's law enforcement takes on the responsibility Amy.  <br />We are given a cast of misfits and are taken into their world.  What seems like everyday tasks for the rest of us is adventurous for these people.  Nothing is ever how it appears in a Jennifer Crusie story and this is no exception.  Entertaining books don't always make you laugh out loud but this one made me, many times.  <br />I recommend this book to anyone who does not mind descriptive sex scenes.  It also helps if you have a cinematic imagination because this book will read like a movie or sitcom.  It had just the right mix of romance, humor, and mystery to keep me glued to the pages.	2002-07-11
US	36709981	R2V0USB8ZH8OM0	0312971125	441085885	Crazy for You	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Life Is A Game Of Dominos	Jennifer Crusie has a way of describing an ordinary event and taking us on a journey.  These trips are full of excitement, disbelief, pure humor and love.  \\"Crazy For You\\" is no exception. <br />Quinn McKenzie is happy to just be and not ready to ask for more from life.  She is living with the small town's legandary football coach, Bill.  Everyone thinks she has the perfect life.  Quinn never thought to question things either until the day one of her high school students gets her to take a stray dog.  Bill is a control freak who usually gets his way by taking or naggng Quinn into acceptance and a dog is not part of the picture.  Bill humor's Quinn for a day and then takes the dog to the pound while she is at work.<br />As a response, Quinn's veil is lifted and she starts making all sorts of changes.  Quinn's metamorphasis is contagious and pretty soon everyone whom we have been introduced to is breaking out of their molds.  The men in this story are all standing by scratching their heads.  Some take it better than others.  Bill's lack of coping skills give us drama. While, Nick (Quinn's ex-brother-in-law) starts our engines.  <br />Jennfier Crusie's characters remind me of David Kelley's from \\"Alley McBeal\\", \\"Boston Public\\", & \\"The Practice\\".  They are bizarre, charming, and a hoot.  For pure fun give \\"Crazy For You\\" a chance.	2002-07-09
US	36709981	R9URZGBOZ1KWA	0060185147	737127896	Courting Trouble	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Summer Was Made For Books Like This!	\\"Courting Trouble\\" is about a newly hired attorney, Anne Murphy, in an all female law firm.  I read it the week before the 4th of July and got into the storyline.  Anne is herself out of town on a last minute 4th journey.  In her absence, the house sitter is murdered.  Maybe it's being a redhead (who grew up watching \\"I Love Lucy\\" religiously) that inspires Anne to continue to be dead.  She hopes by doing this to catch the killer.  She is forced to ask for help from her co-workers, whom up to this point have not given her the time of day.  Needless to say, sisterhood prevails and some memorable predicaments occur.  <br />The story is not a traditional mystery, as we find out who the prime suspect is early in novel.  However, the tempo is consistent and there are some unexpected turns to keep you interested.  There were a few things thrown at you that could have been left out.  Anne's relationship with her mother left me unfulfilled and I would have appreciated more scenes with the opposing counsel.  <br />With that said, this was the first book by Lisa Scottline that I have read. I have since bought some of her earlier books with the anticipation that they will be as pleasurable.  <br />If you are a die-hard mystery fan, this will probably be a disappointment.  On the other hand, if you enjoy entertaining, crisp written or suspenseful (with a dash of romance, but not on the level of Elizabeth Lowell) books, this should keep you busy on a lazy day.	2002-07-09
US	36709981	R1K5OVC98UC2SW	1551669048	943477818	Warrior (MacKenzie-Blackthorn, Book 5)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Large, Powerful, & Tawny Brown	This could describe the man or the cougars, you choose.  <br />This is the first of the Mackensie/Blackthorn series I have read.  I enjoyed this story from start to finish.  From their first meeting in the town bar to the time spent in the hills tracking cougars, my eyes were glued to the pages.  <br />Ms. Lowell has succeeded in providing us a couple who is vunerable, interesting and has a little mystery. Eden is out tracking cougars in a ranching area.  Nevada is licking his wounds from his past work with the CIA. Together they make living remotely on a mountain seem like the sexist thing.   <br />I find that Ms. Lowell's writing isn't always consistent.  In this case though, it is supurb.  She brings to life her characters that are missing in some of her other books.  You care about each of them like they are friends and the chemistry between Eden and Nevada burns your fingers as you hold the book.<br />As summer is approaching, put this on your list for an afternoon read either at the beach, lake, or park.  I doubt it will take you longer than a day to finish it.  Unless of course, you decide to reread it!	2002-06-12
US	36709981	R3SN3I6H8M8V3Q	0061031070	398144595	Moving Target (Rarities Unlimited)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Moving Storyline, Stagnate Romance & Bumper Cart Suspense	Elizabeth Lowell's current story includes suspense, incertitude and a history lesson on Celtic (15th Century) Illuminated Manuscripts. This formula comes as no surprise to Lowell's fans. Unfortunately, the pieces didn't make a complete picture. <br />Serena Charters was raised by her reclusive grandmother. You quickly learn that even though they shared a one-room cabin in the deserts outside of Palm Springs, Serena was kept at arm's length. It's not surprising that she has trust issues, which come up frequently during the story. Fast- forward to the aftermath of her grandmother's murder.  Serena receives some pages of Celtic Illuminated Manuscripts. <br />Erik is an expert in 15th Century Illuminated Manuscripts. He is hired as a consultant by Rarities Unlimited to verify if the pages Serena has are authentic or counterfeit. The House of Warrick has already viewed the pages and declares them fakes, so they hire Rarities Unlimited to concur. Erik is caught between his \\"connection\\" to the pages (and Serena) and doing his job. <br />Ms. Lowell has a knack for including interesting occupations that surround her characters. The interesting world of Illuminated Manuscripts, auction houses, and high-end collectibles get woven into the story. The flashbacks to the past were less interesting. I'm not a fan of creating characters that have lived centuries before only to find each other once again. To me, this was a poor substitute for more present-day romance between Serena and Erik. <br />You get a chance to see some previous characters again and are introduced to some others. I have no doubt we will read more about them in the future. If you are looking for a decent read but nothing to keep you up all night turning the pages, take a chance on this.	2002-06-12
US	36709981	R254I5DTJLELED	0385496117	277275627	A Certain Age: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	How low can you go?	Watching Florence Collin's downhill spiral is sort of like driving past a five-car pile-up.  You try to determine who was at fault.  You're amazed at the damage and think there is no way anyone could have survived.  You say a quick prayer for everyone involved.  You want to avert your eyes, but your mind is telling you to keep looking.<br />I know I'm bonding with a character if I would consider having them over for dinner.  Tama Janowitz did not create a woman who I would invite to even take out my trash.  However, I could not help watching with a guilty pleasure, her demise.  She is shallow, a thief, and just plan clueless about almost everything.<br />With all that said, the characters are well developed, the writing sharp, and you want to continue reading.  Don't be surprised if you gasp, stare at the page in shock, or have to momentarily set the book down to absorb what just happened.  If you are looking for happily ever after, this isn't the book for you.  If you want a character that challenges you to like her despite herself, give this one a try.	2002-05-09
US	36709981	R180IZ5U73YQJU	0375505148	177795746	Girls' Poker Night	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Betting It All	Jill Davis writes exactly how my mind works.  In short sentences and chapters.  They float from topic to topic that make up the big picture.  This is a clever story with characters that are insightful in their own way.  <br />&quot;Goddess Ruby&quot; reached me since I found so many similar personality traits.  Her goal is to move past her comfort zones in life and the story is about how she does.  <br />Ruby's relationship with Michael, her boss, rang true.  Michael is someone who is older, who wants to &quot;get it right&quot;, and who pushes Ruby to a place where she is vulnerable.  You can't help but feel that Ruby (or her poker pal's) growth is yours.  It's as easy to laugh with them as it is to get mad, sad or proud.  <br />Jill Davis gives us a complete story.  Her characters are so authentic, you think you are part of the group.  I highly recommend Girls' Night Poker to anyone who wants a well- written and entertaining book.  Don't be surprised if you can't put it down.	2002-05-09
US	36709981	R2S7IA2EMHAB4T	0385323638	337263488	Pink Slip	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Growing Up Is Hard To Do!	Rita Ciresi puts together a cast that should be on Broadway.  Pink Slip reads like the acts of a play.  Although, Lisar, Lise, Lisa, Elisabetta (which ever you prefer) would have been that girl voted, \\"Most Likely To Sleep With You\\" in high school, her need to connect to people makes her charming and endearing.  You can picture her alone on stage sharing her stories.<br />Lise is at that point where each of will be or have been.  She is living her adult life.  Much like going to a high school reunion, you can't help comparing yourself with her.  Rita Ciresi has captured honesty in her character interactions.  Some are uncomfortable like her reaction to Al, her brother-in-law.  (Sorry, you'll have to read it to find out).  <br />I thoroughly enjoyed the journey with Lise until the last chapter.  I wanted to finish the trek with her but felt like I got sent home before the trip was complete.  Despite the abrupt ending, I cannot discount the writing, storyline or characters.  If you enjoy books where the heroine is not perfect and may never be, I suggest A Certain Age by Tama Janowitz.  I can only hope Rita Ciresi continues Lise's journey and that we get to share in it.	2002-05-09
