US	36716654	R2KP6RZXIZS377	0312424442	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Entertaining beach read	I can't shake the feeling that there may be a deeper, nuanced social commentary underlying the plotline of the book that I missed entirely; however, I did read it without taking any time to \\"digest\\" the text. I read \\"Charlotte Simmons\\" for the plot alone, and found that in itself utterly enjoyable. There are few surprises--each character ends up with the most satisfying (for the reader) ending possible--which may annoy readers looking for something more than a happy ending. But for anyone looking for a beach read with side dish of brains, this book is an excellent choice.	2005-08-30
US	36716654	R1N9D73F2TAGWJ	1580631789	10456057	Brush With the Law	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hysterical guilty pleasure	A lot of these reviews concentrate on how well this book correlated with the reviewers' own law school experiences. It is utterly unlike my own law school experience, but I have several classmates for whom it's a near-perfect match (albeit substituting powder cocaine, mushrooms, ecstasy and marijuana for crack). This book is basically a fluff piece; it's a nice respite from the outdated and overwrought \\"One L\\" and the \\"work-hard-don't-play-at-all\\" prep book \\"Law School Confidential.\\" Further, I loved that the narratives are basically recounted with a smirk--it's authentic, to me, because there was so much wry smirking during law school that I wondered if my classmates were at all capable of saying anything with complete sincerity. Overall, \\"Brush with the Law\\" isn't going to change anyone's life--or their mind (about law school)--but there are so many books impressing upon students that law school is like intellectual concentration camp, that it's nice to see just one concentrating on the low-key side of law school life.	2005-08-30
US	36716654	R3EFIQ0JVTH395	0140196277	231004632	Looking for Mary: (Or, the Blessed Mother and Me) (Compass)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Heartwarming story for persons of all faiths	Although I'm sure most of the people interested in this tome will be Christians, I'd like to appeal to people of other faiths to give this short, delightful book a chance. Although Donofrio's story is focused on her development in the Christian faith, it's a great tale in a more general sense of how much peace that faith can bring into a person's life. There are two simultaneous narratives in this book: the chronological sequence describing Donofrio's pilgrimage to Bosnia, and the unsequenced story of her life leading up to the pilgrimage; I find the weaving together of the two narratives to be engaging and interesting--and, surprisingly, not confusing in the least! Donofrio employs naked honesty in the confessions about her life \\"before,\\" which took a lot of guts. I hope it will help readers see (1) just how self-centered a lot of modern life is, and (2) that there's no such thing as a life that's \\"too bad\\" to be turned around with faith. Further, I think it's great that Donofrio discusses the importance of community to her faith development--several modern \\"religions\\" have cropped up that are based in the individual, but only in *organized* religions can one expand her faith development through her ties with others. I also think this book is interesting in that it explores a common phenomenon--that is, that Catholic women are often much more devoted to St. Mary than Catholic men are. Donofrio offers no scientific or psychological explanations, but her own exploration of her relationship to Mary is quite edifying in and of itself. Last, I think this is a great book for people like me who have never experienced any kind of crisis of faith: I think it can help us understand better how to reach out to our friends, help them discover the inner peace and completion that faith can bring, without scaring them away. I'm sending this book to everyone I know--my recently divorced friend who's casting about for a new man to complete her, my lapsed Catholic friend whose boyfriend's lack of faith has kept her from going to church, my pious aunt and grandmother who are always wracked with guilt over some minor transgression, my teenage cousins who don't seem too enamored with the whole idea of the Catholic faith. I just don't think there's anyone, especially women, who won't take something wonderful away from this book.	2005-04-02
US	36716654	RPNA7SPXPEVDZ	0758208413	108818985	Escape From Bridezilla	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Annoying errors detract from an otherwise cute book	This book is an unabashed fluff piece: the perfect beach read. As such, the plot was satisfying even though character development was quite thin.  <br />     That being said, this book is rife with errors, which are so irritating as to detract from its delightfulness. Words are misspelled throughout the book (e.g. \\"vocal chords\\" instead of the correct \\"vocal cords\\"), which is annoying. Even more annoying, however, is that many of the author's pop-culture references are misspelled (e.g. \\"Alicia Keyes\\" instead of the correct \\"Alicia Keys\\"). It's difficult to believe that the protagonist is as plugged-in to pop culture as the writer wants to imply, when she can't spell the references correctly. The grammar in the book is atrocious as well--\\"that\\" is used where \\"who\\" would be proper and \\"who\\" used instead of the proper \\"whom\\" consistently throughout the book. There is a glut of sentence fragments. While it's apparent that de Montravel is trying to use an informal writing style, the fragments come across as confusing and just plain wrong, rather than as informal and stream-of-consciousness. Further, de Montravel has a bad habit of using \\"1,800\\" as her stock \\"very large number.\\" Instead of switching among \\"about a zillion,\\" \\"a lot,\\" \\"so many,\\" etc. phrases meaning \\"very many,\\" de Montravel uses \\"about 1,800\\" every single time. Sometimes the number appears on back-to-back pages. It comes across as very strange: does this number have some special meaning? On the whole, then de Montravel's writing style leaves a lot ot be desired: her efforts to be informal don't work because there's no \\"flow.\\" Maybe a two-week writing class could help?   <br />     The designer name-dropping will be fun for an avid fashion follower, but it remains unclear to me how the protagonist can wear multi-thousand dollar outfits every day and still have money concerns. In the \\"Shopaholic\\" series, Kinsella solves this dilemma by giving the protagonist massive credit-card debt; in \\"Escape from Bridezilla,\\" however, Emily only has an AmEx, which is a card that must be paid off each month--debt cannot accrue. So who is paying these AmEx bills each month? And since *someone* is paying for Emily's lavish lifestyle, why is she so concerned about money? Very confusing. Further, the designer name-dropping isn't useful as a device in the book. Other authors use name-dropping to illustrate what Park Avenue Princesses certain characters are; de Montravel, by contrast, is trying to portray Emily as something other than a \\"rich girl\\" caricature--so what part does the name-dropping play?  <br />     My major substantive disappointment however, is that the description on the book jacket described a descent into Bridezilla behavior (something like \\"Shopaholic Ties the Knot\\"). However, wedding-related madness takes a minor role, at best, in this book. On average, it's only mentioned every once in a while--and then except for one trip to Vera Wang that is mostly glossed over, it's only mentioned in passing, as in \\"how is the wedding planning coming?\\" I was hoping for a delicious glimpse into the mind of a Bridezilla; instead, I got another generic \\"Sex & the City\\"-wannabe chick-lit tome. Yawn.	2005-03-29
US	36716654	R22CO0NRGTEGLW	0312312148	733208987	The Hitched Chick's Guide to Modern Marriage: Essential Advice for Staying Single-minded and Happily Married	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Biased and preachy	The singularly important flaw in this tome is the extreme attitude with which the author approaches marriage. Although the title and book jacket promise a book with across-the-political-spectrum appeal, Norwood is obviously far less \\"traditional\\" in her beliefs than most middle-of-the-road American brides. For example, in her discussion of name changes, she devotes page after page of diatribe against such an outdated system, and only a single line (not even a sentence) reminding women that name changes are an option. In fact, well over three-quarters of married American women change their names--is Norwood just totally ignorant of the prevalence of that practice? For a book that aims for wide appeal, the vitriol was pretty un-called-for. Despite the consistency with which American mothers drop out of the workforce to care for their children full-time, Norwood derides stay-at-home moms; throughout the book she sniffs that concentrating on household management could only lead to depression and could never be as fulfilling as working outside the home. Norwood also seems to go much further than the hope that wives will be their hubands' equals--she seems to want the wives to hold all the cards in the relationship. In fact, she even titles one section, \\"What's Yours Is Ours, What's Mine Is My Own.\\" Although she professes neutrality on the issues, she errs on the side of condoning such behavior as having extramarital affairs and hiding money from husbands. Overall, it is very clear that Norwood is \\"nontraditional\\" in a way most readers are not even close to being; as a result, readers who consider themselves conservative or middle-of-the-road will find this book deeply unsatisfying and even offensive (since the message seems to be that if you're at all conservative then you must not be a \\"modern\\" wife).  <br />As an aside, I'd also like to point out that this book has only been published in the U.S. and uses U.S.-based statistics. The spelling is all American, and the core audience seems to be upper-middle-class American women. Why, then, is this book so riddled with Anglicisms? Toward the end of the book I definitely got sick of figuring out the meaning of words like \\"biscuits\\" and \\"bespoke,\\" scratching my head over seemingly random capitalizations (\\"Realtor?\\") and reading quotes from women named Gemma.     <br />	2005-03-19
US	36716654	R24VQB2R1FL13X	0374524262	236399248	The Last Empire: De Beers, Diamonds, and the World	Books	2	26	32	N	N	Does not live up to its title	This book's title describes it as one about \\"De Beers, Diamonds, and the World.\\" Instead, a more accurate title would have described the book as telling of \\"Political Inequality Between the Races in South Africa.\\" True, the book discusses De Beers quite a bit, but the discussions seem incidental to the author's focus on the plight of South African blacks throughout history. The description of De Beers's diversification is less than cursory; the book often omits major business decisions completely but then later assumes knowledge of them by the reader. For instance, the book leaves out any mention of *how* De Beers came to own an interest in copper mining, but still mentions such mining interest a couple of times toward the end. Further, complex business relationships, such as that between Anglo-American, Consolidated, and De Beers, need much more explanation than they get. The author spends considerably more time discussing how \\"Anglo-American\\" was chosen as the company's name than what its exact corporate form is and how it its relationship to De Beers works out in practice. Last, I take issue with the writing style itself. The prose is heavy and dry; even interesting characters' stories are flaccid and dull. Overall, this book is a good complement to other South African history books, but as a book about diamonds and the workings of De Beers (the book it puts itself out to be), \\"Last Empire\\" falls utterly flat.	2005-03-02
US	36716654	R2L3568JP9QW0T	0375704515	761338189	Nobrow : The Culture of Marketing, the Marketing of Culture	Books	1	9	11	N	N	Awful beyond description	The main problem with this book is that the content is totally unrelated to the title. The title puts forth that the book will discuss how marketing has affected American culture, but the book constitutes no such treatise. Instead, the reader is assaulted with a series of the author's autobiographical vignettes. Despite Seabrook's best efforts to tie these together with the occasional sentence or two about marketing, the tales remain disjunct. Further, they're totally uninteresting! I kept reading in the hope that the book would match up to the promise of its cover description, but it never did. What a waste of money and time.	2005-01-06
US	36716654	R3TXPMG2Q4ED5Q	0883631288	369621116	Chinese Americans: The Immigrant Experience	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the best coffee table books ever	I bought this book as a gift and ended up keeping it for myself. Not only is the historical information complete, but it is also spiced with interesting tidbits that make the text a great read in and of itself. On top of this, the photos are just phenomenal, and quite additive to the text. This book is the total package.	2004-11-28
US	36716654	R1O3ZA1C5H5WBM	0142004170	838683592	The Chinese in America: A Narrative History	Books	3	5	18	N	N	Complete but unengaging	For completion alone, I would give this book five stars. As a total package, however, I'm not impressed. The title states that the book is \\"a narrative history,\\" which suggests a memoir style. However, the book reads almost as dry as a history text. One major strength is the seamless interposition of Chinese history in China over Chinese American history in America, and the logical connections between historical events in the motherland and immigration patterns to the U.S. This may be a good introduction to Chinese American history for those unfamiliar with the topic (like my \\"jook sing\\" husband), but for those well versed in Asian-American issues this book adds nothing to the other literature.	2004-11-28
US	36716654	RWFIKJZGGY6UN	1559278757	265469425	The Dirty Girls Social Club: A Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Great reading of a cute book	My only complaint with the author's reading of her book is that it had to be abridged. The abridged version was enjoyable (can a CD be a 'page-turner?'), but it was over too soon! The author did a great job of differentiating voices for characters, without going over the line into the ridiculous.	2004-05-02
US	36716654	RW1V6PF355IHW	0525942572	691036209	Beyond the Narrow Gate: The Journey of Four Chinese Women from the Middle Kingdom to Middle America	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Mediocre	This is not a terrible book. But it's not a good one either--especially in a field that has so many extraordinarily well-written memoirs (like &quot;Wild Swans&quot;). <BR>&quot;Beyond the Narrow Gate&quot;'s lack of originality and style are its biggest problems. The author is telling a story that has been told many times before. Although Chang's women immigrants are better-off financially than the immigrants most memoirs are about, that fact actually makes &quot;Narrow Gate&quot; LESS interesting, because the women's hardships are less stark, more psychological than physical, and thus extremely difficult for Change to adequately convey. <BR>Chang's writing style is unexceptional. Her words do not draw the reader in, and there is a lack of complementarity between the story Chang is trying to tell and the words she uses to tell it with. Her language could be much richer, her descriptions more textured (adjectival phrases are our friends!). Worse, this story, of which the personal impact for the author is constantly reiterated, is not told in an intimate manner or with any sense of humor whatsoever. The telling is extremely straightforward, with too few embellishments and too little intimacy, which is off-putting, to say the least. <BR>There are also some smaller, but similarly irritating problems. First, this book touts itself as a record of four Chinese women's journey to America. In fact, that story is recounted as a background for excessive odes to Chang's mother that are not related to the story. There are frequent and redundant discussions of Chang's mother's exuberance in life, complete with unnecessary anecdotes that are neither contributory nor all that interesting. <BR>Also, especially in the first half of the book, Chang goes into long tangents about poets, such as the rather obscure Wallace Stevens, or earlier American authors. She tries to weave their experiences into the story of the Chinese immigrants' experiences--to what end, I have no clue. The device merely irritated me. <BR>Chang jumps between spaces, time, and characters in a wholly disconcerting manner. It's never made clear why certain characters, like Suzanne and Delores, feature heavily in some chapters and not others, since the book is not written in a consistent chronology. Chang also throws in a lot about herself as she was doing the research for the book--half of one chapter is devoted to a visit to an old priest in New York, who doesn't even remember Chang's mother. For a book that's supposed to be about the elder Chang's immigration experience, there is an excess of anecdotes about the author's research-related experiences. <BR>Last, Chang's insistence on writing out the character's exact words, no matter how broken their English, is annoying. Most children of immigrants, while acknowledging that their parents' English is nonstandard, have grown up hearing that version of English and therefore it sounds natural to them, and not broken. Therefore, Chang could still be true to her subjects by recording their speech as standard English, because that's how their children actually understand them. The broken English is very hard to read and takes away from the seriousness both of Chang's subject and often of the conversations that are being recorded. <BR>Overall, like I said, this isn't a TERRIBLE book. If it dealt with a topic that had fewer volumes already written on it--say, for example, the Thai or Hmong immigrant experience--I would actually give this book another star. But the Chinese immigrant experience is one that has already been recorded in some of the best tomes of this century, and so I don't think readers should waste their time with as mediocre a book as &quot;Beyond the Narrow Gate.&quot;	2003-10-19
US	36716654	R33SCAVG5HX1V4	0393322106	218325066	When Broken Glass Floats: Growing Up Under the Khmer Rouge	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not as Well-Written as Loung Ung's Account	This book lends itself to easy comparison to Loung Ung's tome &quot;First They Killed My Father,&quot; and while &quot;When Broken Glass Floats&quot; is a good book it's not as fulfilling as &quot;First They Killed My Father.&quot; &quot;When Broken Glass Floats&quot; leaves large chunks of time un-narrated, doesn't discuss the ramifications of the author's Chinese (as opposed to pure Khmer) heritage, and generally is a less engaging read. It finds a strength, however, in its greater number of &quot;cultural asides,&quot; that is, places in the text where the author directly addresses the reader and notes some small detail of Cambodian culture. Additionally, this book would have benefitted from an epilogue regarding the author's post-Cambodian life in the U.S., and would also have benefitted from some discussion either in the text or via footnotes, of what was actually happening politically at the time--it would make the story flow a little better.	2003-10-06
US	36716654	R3BIB8XTAYVONC	0060930527	592171238	Paper Daughter: A Memoir	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Unexceptional	Mar's memoir may be a better read for someone not accustomed to reading about the Chinese-American immigrant experience, but those well-read in the field are unlikely to be impressed. Mar does not use hindsight to explain things that confused her in her childhood, such as the significance of speaking Toisan instead of proper Cantonese. Her childhood experiences are not so different from those of American-born Chinese, or frankly of smart children in general. Her experience with the joy of being around other smart kids is more closely tied with the &quot;smart&quot; experience than the &quot;immigrant&quot; experience. And her tango with anorexia, along the same vein, has more to do with the &quot;type-A female&quot; experience then with the immigrant experience. Overall, this book is a good memoir of one woman's life, but there are too many ideosyncratic facets for this to tout itself as a good representation of the modern Chinese immigrant experience in America.	2003-10-06
US	36716654	R4VBWEO2TT6M9	0743533658	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fabulous reading of a fabulous book	I disagree with the reviewer who thought the CD version is &quot;boring.&quot; I found it to be very engaging. Additionally, it's an appropriate abridgement--it's not so short you lose the flavor of the book and the fun details. As for the book itself, it was interesting enough to hold my attention, and I generally hate biographies.	2003-09-15
US	36716654	R1LD2VMVG2GKNH	0618334661	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Disappointing after &quot;Fast Food Nation&quot;	After bring impressed with &quot;Fast Food Nation,&quot; I began &quot;Reefer Madness&quot; with high expectations which simply were not met. While the book is reasonably well-researched, there is simply too much preaching. The obvious biases of the author in all three essays (!) brings the accuracy of his hard data into question. The writing style is rather dry, which makes a strange climate for the sensationalism of Schlosser's claims. This book is neither as objective, nor as well-researched (there are more field anecdotes and narrative history than hard numbers), nor as interesting as &quot;Fast Food Nation.&quot; What a shame.	2003-09-09
US	36716654	R2O4FZHD3PC3I	0452283701	885128653	Diamond: The History of a Cold-Blooded Love Affair	Books	4	1	2	N	N	And overall great read	Hart left out Israel. This is my only complaint with &quot;History...&quot; Other than that omission, the book is satisfyingly complete, covering all major contributors to the diamond industry at every stage in production (that is, not just mining countries, but also countries where the rough diamonds are processed), without being excessively long or overdetailed. It is educational, but because the book is intersperses &quot;field stories&quot; with edifying text, it never gets boring or overly dry.<br />Additionally, Hart's writing style itself is quite engaging.	2003-08-20
US	36716654	RZ4KJY63ERCEC	0142001619	707931219	Salt: A World History	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Kurlansky is a spectacular writer	Kurlansky's research is relatively complete. There was no mention of Central Asian countries, which have had quite a salt saga of their own, but otherwise Kurlansky does an excellent job of including all of salt's major roles in world history. More inclusions would probably have made the book excessively long and would have risked losing the reader's interest. It is perfect as it is. <br />The joy of this book, however, as fascinating as the TOPIC is, is Kurlansky's WRITING. He has the most perfect mix of dry humor--almost unnoticeable unless you're looking for it--and straightforward delivery that I have ever come across. He makes a topic that could lend itself to rather boring prose and keeps the tone light without losing the informational value of his work. I'm utterly impressed, and hope that he will now write books on every commodity in which I have an interest, so that I never have to read anyone else describe a commodity again.	2003-08-20
US	36716654	R24OGOJ56XF2OB	0811837904	899185588	Girl Culture	Books	5	9	11	N	N	What a spectacular collection	Words can add little to the beauty of these photographs. The introduction and conclusion are utterly unnecessary and frankly are a little preachy, but the essays in the subjects' own words are fascinating. This is a book one absorbs more than reads.	2003-08-20
US	36716654	ROY5UXA176P1B	0743428188	427242449	The Twentieth Wife: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	More fiction than history, but very well-written	Like most historical fiction, this book is more fiction than history. However, the historical details are present, and not in a superfluous manner--they were sufficient to keep me from getting frustrated and were acutally woven into the story, not just halfheartedly thrown in. <br />As for the story itself, Sundaresan is a good writer, and knows how to hold her reader's interest. The characters are reasonably well-developed (I say &quot;reasonably&quot; because some are better developed than others), the descriptions are enough to keep the reader's imagination fired but not excessive, and the plotline itself is strong. I wouldn't put this book in the top-10 I have ever read, but it was still a four-star read and I will be one of the first to own &quot;Feast of Roses&quot;, the sequel to &quot;Twentieth Wife&quot;, when it comes out on paperback.	2003-08-20
US	36716654	R13IFIIRE36AIK	0393324397	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	8	14	N	N	The best book I have ever read in my life.	Easy to read. Well-written. Utterly complete. Well-researched. I don't know if you can win a Pulitzer for nonfiction, but Stiglitz would deserve one. Never has an economist woven in economic concepts so subtly and made them so easy to understand. Never has ANYONE made the IMF and the World Bank so easy to understand. And this combined in a book that puts almost every other nonfiction author in history to shame, for its clear and concise style. And did I mention that Stiglitz is open about his biases, and also suggests solutions for all of the problems he notes? And that he's realistic and practical? I'm bowled over. I'm giving this book to everyone I know. WOW.	2003-05-05
US	36716654	R33TP07FXCEW56	0066621194	375642585	China Dawn: Culture and Conflict in China's Business Revolution	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Disappointing	This book has several major problems. First, it purports to examine a far more broad-ranging set of topics than it actually does. It does not, as the jacket copy would have you believe, discuss in detail the implications of &quot;600 million Chinese get[-ting] wired and becom[ing] the world's largest group of Internet users,&quot; nor does it talk about &quot;what [will happen] when China's state-owned companies link up with the global marketplace.&quot; Instead, it relays the stories of a couple of Chinese techie entrepreneurs, with side discussions of other Chinese businessment, and with a passage or two about macro implications thrown in for good measure. <br />Second, this book at least has the makings of being a good business story, along the lines of &quot;When Genius Failed&quot; and that ilk. However, there isn't a storyline that can be easily followed. There is too much switching back and forth between Edward Tian's goings-on and Bo's goings-on, and for that matter every-other-business-person-mentioned's goings-on. There's too much alternation between the third person and the first person (e.g., &quot;we&quot;) points of view. It's unclear how often Sheff was there in the proceedings, and a lot of the first-person anecdotes are the ones least related to the story being told. Sheff says things along the lines of &quot;and then we went to a bar, where over drinks he told me X.&quot; It would have been much more readable if Sheff could have left out the whole &quot;going to the bar&quot; part and just told the story relayed to him there, in the third person. And further, because Sheff's first-person anecdotes tend to be more personal moments rather than business meetings, the first-person point of view always ends up sounding like name-dropping (&quot;I'm good friends with this brilliant entrepreneur!&quot;) instead of sounding like a real contribution to the story. <br />In sum, Sheff never makes clear that extrapolation from the micro to the macro is eithernecessary or possible, and &quot;China Dawn&quot; isn't a good enough story to stand on its own as a business narrative. Some books overreach--this one doesn't reach nearly far enough.	2003-04-28
US	36716654	RNZV2J5U6957J	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The first three chapters are enough	While this book is incredible--the characterizations of the American upper middle class are both identifiable and suitably backed up by endnotes--it gets a little repetitive. The chapters are quite long, and they all have the same theme, so I actually think each chapter could stand alone. I recommend reading the first two or three chapters and then moving on with your life. By all means don't read past chapter four, because the last three chapters, which deal with &quot;Pleasure,&quot; &quot;Religion,&quot; and &quot;Politics,&quot; are not only redundant in their themes, but also much weaker, less cohesive, and have less &quot;I know just what he means!&quot; cache than the first part of the book.	2003-04-27
US	36716654	R1J62HGC744UUP	0446673781	302948748	One L: The Turbulent True Story of a First Year at Harvard Law School	Books	3	21	29	N	N	Irrelevant	In the seventies, this was probably a pretty good approximation of law school life. However, since then all but the Socratic method have changed. First, Turow came to law school from another career. Now, most law students come to law school straight from college, putting them in a different age group and with different interests than Turow has. <br />Second, Turow was married in law school. This is a major, and perhaps the most important, difference between himself and the average law student. His marital problems relate almost exclusively to married people and not near as much to boyfriend/girlfriend relationships. The latter type of relationships are more fluid and would have been more likely to break up, but in a Turow's marriage the breakup of the marriage is never seriously contemplated. Also there aren't many boyfriend/girlfriends who would move to be with the other partner--it's almost exclusively spouses and fiances who make this kind of move. To some degree, Turow's marital problems related to his wife's move and adjustment to Boston, and this isn't something that most law students have to deal with. Additionally, because Turow is married, he doesn't deal at all with (a) the minefield of dating in law school, (b) having a long-distance relationship fall apart over the first year of law school, or (c) loneliness in a new environment. Almost every modern law student has to deal with at least one of these, and Turow covers none of them. <br />Next, the racial and gender background against which Turow is writing has changed considerably. Top-tier law schools aren't populated with WASPs the way they were in Turow's time, and lower-level law schools are even more diverse. Now more than half of law students are women. Being a white male in law school is a totally different status now than it was thirty years ago. <br />Even the structure of law school has changed since Turow was in it. Just in the last year, Harvard has joined a growing movement among law schoolsto put first-semester students in smaller sections in order to make the experience less impersonal. While I can't say Turow's enormous sections don't still exist, they're now almost always padded by school-sponsored, smaller group activities to facilitate bonding among students. <br />In Turow's day, it was well-nigh impossible for a first-year, even from a top-tier school, to get a summer job at a firm. Now, however, the chances of first-years having such a job are much more likely, and fall of first-year is often a frenzy of learning how to do a mail-merge, updating resumes, typing addresses, etc. etc. in the push to get applications for summer jobs out by Dec. 1. The winter break for top-tier first-years is often filled with job interviews, especially in smaller markets. Turow, of course, doesn't cover any of this. <br />In Turow's time, law review admissions were determined almost entirely by grades, at pretty much every law school in America. Now, however, many law schools are moving to a dual system, whereby students can either &quot;grade-on&quot;, making the law review by having top grades, or &quot;test-on&quot;, making the law review by acing an editing test. Since Turow didn't have the option of taking an editing test, he naturally doesn't go into the fit of studying that most first-years now go into in the spring as they try to influence their own destinies, instead of simply submitting their destinies to the Grade Gods. <BR> <BR>Overall, I don't think this book is worth reading at all, I have no idea why people told me to read it before law school, and I wish someone would write a book that's relevant to law students' lives NOW. Maybe I will. If you must read something to help you understand what the first year is like before the first year, read &quot;Law School Confidential.&quot;	2003-04-24
US	36716654	R8CBWIYQ68B37	031224309X	368245390	Law School Confidential: A Complete Guide to the Law School Experience	Books	5	4	5	N	N	YES YES YES YES YES YES YES!	THIS IS THE ONE. There is absolutely nothing about law school that this book doesn't cover. I'm blown away. I use the briefing method described in the book, I followed the suggestions regarding interviewing and taking the Bluebook exam, etc. etc. I've had this book since my senior year of college and out of the hundreds of dollars I have spent on books these past two years of law school, &quot;Law School Confidential&quot; was the single smartest purchase I have made. It may actually be my best book purchase ever.	2003-04-24
US	36716654	R25VII22I240IT	0966189930	31557251	THAILAND: LAND OF BEAUTIFUL WOMEN	Books	3	27	32	N	N	Lots of pictures, not enough research	I have two major problems with this book. First, the photos' only saving grace is that they are of unquestionably beautiful women. Otherwise, they are unprofessional. Supposedly candid photos are obviously posed, photos have awful quality, many are obviously taken without professional-quality flash equipment, and some have hotel rooms as their background unnecessarily. The overall effect is that of a high-schooler's &quot;My Trip to Thailand&quot; picture album. <br />The second problem is the lack of research backing up the author's assertions about Thai women's culture and how it affects their personalities. It would be very easy, for example, to back up assertions about Buddhist influence with the relevant teachings of the Buddha. Also, Barrett is unclear about his sample size. Is he making these assertions based on his interviews with a hundred women? ten? three? It's never really clear. There are several places where anecdotes would be additive, but assertions are instead left to stand alone. For instance, in his section on bar girls, Barrett notes the differing attitudes toward the job that Thai women have. He includes a couple of anecdotes in the section generally, but that particular paragraph would have benefitted from &quot;point-counterpoint&quot;-style dual anecdotes. Also he switches styles about midway through the book, which is annoying. In the bar girl section, he makes a very real effort not to make any generalizations about the women in that field, but elsewhere in the book (most of the first half) he makes some pretty extreme generalizations, with minimal explanation/discussion. Last, Barrett is generally pretty good about avoiding extremes. However, he takes a couple of chances to take potshots at Western women, which are really unnecessary--and moreover not clearly true (he asserts, for example, that it is Western women, not Western men, who first promoted the idea that Asian women are &quot;submissive,&quot; because the Western women were &quot;jealous.&quot; An interesting idea, but totally uncorroborated either by Barrett or by any other historian).     <br />Overall, I'm not questioning the truth of most of Barrett's assertions. Hey, most of them ring pretty true to anyone who has spent time among Thai people, and it's actually nice to hear a voice that acknowledges that neither the feminist extreme opinion of Thai women nor the misogynist extreme opinion are correct. But it would be nice if, especially for biggest generalizations he makes (&quot;Thai women value harmony and happiness&quot;--ok, who doesn't?), he had some hard data backing them up. Between this problem and the unprofessional photos, I would say this book is either a good starting point or a good ending point for a man interested in and researching finding love in Thailand, but definitely should not be your only source of information.	2003-04-24
US	36716654	R1Z67ARIVPF0QA	0060931388	269737487	First They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Quick read with maximum impact	Ung writes with an eminently readable style. She covers events as they occurred, through her own eyes as a child. This means that the events are much more poignant, but a reader not familiar with recent Cambodian history will probably need an additional book to figure out what the wider political events actually were. For a reader unfamiliar with the atrocities committed by Third World authoritarian governments, this book, I'm sure, will be more more shocking and sad than for a reader well-versed in recent Southeast Asian politics. <br />There is only one thing that this book left out of its coverage, and I wonder if it would help explain the \\"pigmentocracy\\" Ung discusses at various points in her book (e.g., being spit at/generally mistreated because she has light skin). In many Southeast Asian countries, including Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia--and to some extent Cambodia as well--ethnic Chinese are an economically dominant minority. A few ethnic Chinese are much better off than legions of ethnic Khmer (/Thai/Indonesian/Malay/etc.), and often Chinese in such countries opt out of the national culture, choosing to retain Chinese traditions. Ung herself points out that her grandmother, who lived in Cambodia, never learned Khmer. Therefore, many Khmer would have had a deep dissatisfaction with Khmer/Chinese relative positions in society, and would have taken every advantage of the downfall of any ethnic Chinese in Cambodia by mistreating them the way Ung was mistreated. I think Ung should have included a foreword about this situation so that the reader could better understand the context in which the abuse based on her skin tone occurred.	2003-04-24
US	36716654	R1Q98SO1S9GOJG	0813335116	403023101	A History Of Cambodia 3E	Books	5	29	30	N	N	This is what a history book ought to be	Chandler presents a rather complete picture of the long history of Cambodia in about 250 pages. He's concise--what a blessing from a historian. He highlights the most important AND the most interesting details about each period in Cambodian history, and avoids the common problem of banality that many history books have. It's truly a good read, and an easy one, too. It's written in a very clear style--another of its strong points.  <br />In sum, I am supplementing this book with one that deals exclusively with Cambodian history in the last 30 years, but for the &quot;big picture,&quot; &quot;A History of Cambodia&quot; is The One. I couldn't be more impressed.	2003-04-21
US	36716654	R3IXYFRQTL7B0D	0767908082	362463732	Everything But the Burden: What White People Are Taking from Black Culture	Books	2	36	50	N	N	Read Cornell West instead	I had very high hopes for this collection--so high, in fact, that I kept hoping that it would get better all the way to the last essay. The first and main problem, I think, is that this is a topic better dealt with in a book-length and coherent manner. Oddly, though, I found \\"Race Matters\\" by Cornell West much more satisfying than this book even though that, too, is a collection. Perhaps the topic of black cultural influence needs at least a coherent idealogy within a collection of essays in order for a book to address it properly. Either way, this collection lacks a cohesive theme, and also a discernible sense of the problem. Because the essays deal with different aspects of white appropriation (and some, like the essay discussing \\"kinky afro human hair\\" don't seem to touch on white appropriation at all), a clear discussion of the issues surrouding white appropriation is impossible.<br />The second problem I had with this collection was the emphasis on anger--as discernible from indignation, a sense of irony, or irritation. I have never felt that emphasizing rage or race hatred is a productive method of dealing with racial issues, and I maintain my position here. Race is already an emotional issue, and I feel that a book exploring white appropriation of black culture should (1) explore the causes for such appropriation, (2) analyze the emotions that such appropriation elicits throughout the black community--and the white community, and (3) perhaps suggest possible ways to use white appropriation to raise the socioeconomic position of blacks as a community. This book emphasizes step (2), wih almost nothing of (1) and (3), and further almost exclusively highlights anger as the prevailing emotion. Surely there is SOMEONE in the black community who has some other emotion, at least in combination with anger, like a sense of irony, or sadness, or disappointment with regard to WHICH aspects of black culture are being appropriated. In addition, the attitudes of the white community (including the appropriators and the older generation who often dislike appropriation of black culture) with regard to approriation, and the reasons for such attitudes.<br />Last, I don't even feel like this collection explored all the ways that whites appropriate black culture! The most important aspects were covered, like the exoticization of black men and women as sexual objects, music, and athletics, but I still felt like there were other topics that weren't covered. For instance, the discussion of athletics and speech patterns was cursory at best; additionally, there are political and religious appropriations that have taken place (the religious appropriation being especially visible in the South, where numerous traditional Gospel songs have found their way into white churches). The efforts black politicians have to make to attract white constituencies is left undiscussed, as is the co-opting of black worship traditions by white evangelical churches.<br />On the whole, I'm very disappointed, and I'm going to re-read \\"Race Matters\\" to erase this book from my mind.ommunity (including the appropriators and the older generation who often dislike appropriation of black culture) with regard to approriation, and the reasons for such attitudes.<br />Last, I don't even feel like this collection explored all the ways that whites appropriate black culture! The most important aspects were covered, like the exoticization of black men and women as sexual objects, music, and athletics, but I still felt like there were other topics that weren't covered. For instance, the discussion of athletics and speech patterns was cursory at best; additionally, there are political and religious appropriations that have taken place (the religious appropriation being especially visible in the South, where numerous traditional Gospel songs have found their way into white churches). The efforts black politicians have to make to attract white constituencies is left undiscussed, as is the co-opting of black worship traditions by white evangelical churches.<br />On the whole, I'm very disappointed, and I'm going to re-read \\"Race Matters\\" to erase this book from my mind.	2003-04-21
US	36716654	RU74IYW57ZGQO	038547640X	242828253	On a Bed of Rice	Books	5	0	1	N	N	WOW	Impressive, beautiful, moving, and complete. This book speaks for itself.	2003-04-21
US	36716654	R8YOKGU6088PR	0452272645	624505647	The Bankers: The Next Generation The New Worlds Money Credit Banking Electronic Age (Truman Talley)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Just read chapters 9 &amp; 10	I run with a crowd of i-bankers, and I bought this book to try to better understand what they do all day. However, this book is a LOT of history, and the entire first Part of the book is VERY basic information relating to what &quot;money&quot; is. <br />If you learn well through anecdotes, you will find this book both informative and easy to read. If, on the other hand, you are considering this book thinking it will be information about the modern banking industry given in a straightforward way, you're out of luck. In order to understand the industry (or what pieces of it this book explores, anyway) you have to extrapolate larger themes from nearly 500 pages of amost exclusively history and anecdotal examples. In addition, Martin has a habit of describing people in the industry, e.g., &quot;Mr. X, a swarthy fellow I knew while still a fencer at Penn and something of a womanizer besides...&quot; For some, I'm sure this keeps the book from being too dry. I, on the other hand, found these descriptions annoying and diversionary. <br />In sum, if you're looking for information about the modern banking industry, just read chapters nine and ten, which are well-written, relatively complete, and exceptionally easy to understand. If, instead, you are looking for the story of how banking has evolved, or you just like to read businessmen's tales, then this is the book for you.	2003-04-17
US	36716654	R3GJNUUANFIPON	0520201574	752636377	Understanding Vietnam (Philip E. Lilienthal Book.)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	WOW	This book's focus on contemporary Vietnamese literary sources through the years makes it absolutely unique in the field. Its blend of straight history narrative and multiple-voice literature excerpts fleshes out Vietnamese society in a way that was sorely needed in the field. To those well-read in Asian studies: this book can almost be seen as a Vietnam analog to Patricia Ebrey's book \\"Chinese Civilization: A Sourcebook,\\" which is a collection of contemporary Chinese sources through history. <br />The history is instructive and concise, with little excess prose. Jamieson writes in an eminently readable style, and focuses on the most interesting events in order to keep the reader from being bored. He does a pretty good job of giving both Northern and Southern Vietnamese viewpoints, although he does focus a little more than would be preferable on South Vietnam, especially in the later parts of the book. The twentieth century chapters do a better job than almost any book on the market in focusing on the Vietnamese, rather than on the multi-decade war in which they fought.<br />My only complaint is that the extended yin/yang analogy used to explain societal trends was not very helpful. On the whole, though, I'm really impressed.	2003-04-14
US	36716654	R747OMA4CB45M	0375703012	779305545	Thunder from the East: Portrait of a Rising Asia	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The sequel is never as good as the original	While I didn't find this book as edifying as \\"China Wakes,\\" it's still a good read. Its greatest strength is the vignette format, with anecdotes, history, and statistics from various countries in the region and chapters divided by topic. The authors admit, rightfully, that with the breadth of territory they cover in this book the treatment is bound to be superficial to some degree, but it makes for a much more engaging read for someone interested in Asian studies in a broad sense, rather than the usual academic \\"fine-toothed-comb\\" treatment of a narrow topic. Their writing style is nonacademic, which is both highly engaging and very refreshing, and helps this book to appeal to a wide audience, not just ivory-tower types. <br />There are a few problems with the book, which can take something away from its enjoyability. First, there is a tremendous amount of editorializing. The authors may have felt this was necessary to tie together the disjunctive stories and histories they discuss, but I have a firm belief that the intelligence of the reader and the topic-as-chapter format would have made a much better tie than so much author opinion. That excessive editorializing and the overuse of \\"the upshot is\\" to explain things to the reader detracts from the maturity of the writing style. Additionally, the writers obviously consider themselves much more well-versed in Asia-related topics than most Americans. This is fine, but at certain points in the book the reader can't help but think that the authors mistake Americans for idiots. They assert, for example, that most people think of pastoral rice-paddy scenes, and not urban overcrowding, when they think of Asia. Who thinks that? I don't know anyone who doesn't tie overpopulation with India and China! Another example is when the authors assert (more than once) that people perceive Indonesia as stable. Who are these people? Most people I know, in wake of the East Timor situation (not the Bali bombing, since this book was published in '01) and religious/ethnic rioting in that country think of Indonesia as anything BUT stable. These weaknesses combine to give the reader a sense of being pandered to at times--a certain attitude of condescension, if you will. <br />Overall, this is a good book. It's great for people not well-versed in Asian studies, because it's broad enough to give people an easy-to-read introduction to the region (with both strengths and weaknesses presented). It's also good, however, for people who ARE heavily involved in Asian studies readings, since most of us in academia don't get many chances like this to venture out of our chosen country/culture of study and view the region as a larger whole.	2003-04-13
US	36716654	RCBI6CGB1ANLC	0375422013	418092877	The Good Women of China: Hidden Voices	Books	3	24	30	N	N	Solid but unexceptional	I think one's opinion of this book is inversely proportional to how much s/he has read in the field of China studies. If a person in not well-versed in Chinese sociology, s/he will undoubtedly find this a riveting read that is deeply moving and perhaps even shocking. But for most people who are widely read in the field, this book fails to rise above the standard oppression-of-women stories that other China-related books encompass. In fact, for those who have read several Chinese women's memoirs, this book will not even be as emotionally involving as those book-length stories, since the vignettes in this book are short and largely unrelated. <br />The format of the book is definitely a strength for many readers, as it makes the book &quot;read&quot; much faster, and makes it a good &quot;subway&quot; read since the stories are relatively stand-alone and short. However, it is also a weakness, as it keeps the reader from being as emotionally drawn as possible to the various speakers. Book-length memoirs are probably a better format for stories like these, that are in part meant to shock the reader out of Western complacence regarding the Third World. <br />Overall, this is probably a better women's studies books than an Chinese studies book--the stories almost could have happened anywhere in the Third World, and indeed anywhere where power is unevenly distributed and overconcentrated in the hands of men.	2003-04-10
US	36716654	RWVIXWN4HONFT	0449907643	357474860	Promiscuities: The Secret Struggle for Womanhood	Books	2	10	29	N	N	Why is this book so well-known?	If this is one of the best that feminism has to offer, then I remain unimpressed. The strong feminist slant, I expected and even welcomed. The number of overbroad generalizations and lack of reseach supporting Wolf's assertions, I did not expect. The most irritating thing about this book is the amount of space devoted to Wolf's personal remembrances. It's almost to the point that the book could be renamed &quot;Naomi Wolf: Memoirs.&quot; However, Wolf is neither important enough nor interesting enough to have her own biography.<br />Overall, if you are looking for a feminist read, this shouldn't be it unless you have lived Naomi Wolf's life. I didn't grow up in San Francisco, so I had very little sense of &quot;Wow, I've been there/felt that way too!&quot; And I didn't grow up in the sixties, which only compounded the irrelevancy of this book to my life. There are so many good feminist books out there; it's really a shame that this one is considered such an important one. It's definitely outdated and, unless you're from San Francisco, probably irrelevant to your life.	2003-04-10
US	36716654	RB90EXQR465A8	0812966767	556311516	The Starter Marriage and the Future of Matrimony	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Lots of unsubstantiated, but nonetheless true, assertions	If more of Paul's assertions were substantiated by research (only about half are), I would give this book five stars. Even as it is, her assertions ring so true to me that not having footnotes corroborating her points is utterly forgiveable. Both her descriptions of society at large and her theories of individual reasoning behind decisions are recognizable to me and apply to my own life experiences and decisionmaking processes. <br />This book is excellent for both young divorcees, to help understand what happened and where to go from here, and for not-yet-marrieds, like me, who are wondering how to make the first marriage be the lifelong and the last one. It's a quick read, and I really didn't expect it to ring as true as it does, on so many levels. Highly recommended.	2003-04-08
US	36716654	RGVJUEDY46C4C	0300035829	431246227	Thailand: A Short History	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Too dry, but not many alternatives	Unfortunately, there aren't many (any?) other books on the market that cover the history of Thailand. This one is unquestionably complete, but in its completeness lies its greatest weakness. Wyatt seems to sacrifice ease of reading in favor of completeness. For example, the majority of the book up to the age of King Mongkut (about half the book) reads like a list of kings of various city-states in the region, with minimal text between the names. The history of the area has been rife with war and intra-region political conflict and intrigue, and yet somehow this is one of the most boring books I have ever read. If you're looking for early (up to the nineteenth century) history of the region encompassing and surrounding present-day Thailand, this book is pretty much your only option. But if you're looking for something more modern, you could learn as much by watching &quot;Anna and the King&quot; and then reading through Lonely Planet Thailand and a modern-day rundown of Thai politics (there are several of these), as you could from reading the treatment of this recent period in Wyatt's book.	2003-04-05
US	36716654	RHQYAG4MSCPPX	068484740X	98258802	The Fed: The Inside Story of How the World's Most Powerful Financial Institution Drives the Markets	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Misleading Title	My main problem with this book is that the title really should have been &quot;A Detailed History of The Fed.&quot; I think I was looking more for what the title implied, a book with a focus almost exclusively on modern times, and concentrating on the relationship between Fed actions and economic reactions. If this is what you, too, are seeking, don't read this book.<br />A secondary problem is that the recitation of Fed history that comprises nearly the entire book is almost unbearably dry.<br />This book's main (only?) good point is its detail. I personally found the amount of detail excessive and boring, but I can't fault the author for completion: the history that this book contains is broad and well-researched.	2003-04-04
US	36716654	RAPTCUMKLXNJJ	0140285970	365854483	Shadows and Wind: A View of Modern Vietnam	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Too Western, too detailed, and too boring	While this book does exactly what it says, gives \\"a view of modern Vietnam\\", and does so with an impressive swath of parts of society, I wasn't satisfied with the \\"view\\" that it presents. First, there are marked Western overtones; in one chapter, young people's valuing reform above democracy is presented with some cynicism, as young people's valuing material gain over freedom. It could just as easily be argued that these young people believe that their country is not ready for Western-style democracy. Another example is the incredible detail into which the author delves, on phenomena that are different from the Western experience but are applicable to many Third World countries. The names in the anecdotes are Vietnamese, but Templer doesn't do a good job of saying what about the phenomena themselves are particularly Vietnamese. If this book were my only experience with Vietnam and someone asked me, \\"What makes Vietnam different from other Third World countries?\\" I would be virtually stumped. Still another example is his beyond-superficial treatment of Buddhism and its influence on Vietnamese people, history, and culture. He has an entire chapter on religion in Vietnam, and virtually all of its focus is on Vietnamese Catholics and their history. Vietnamese Catholics make up about eight percent of the Vietnamese population, and Buddhists are some sixty percent. Instead of exploring the particularities of Buddhism, Vietnamese-style, Templer basically dismisses it as a ... mishmash of beliefs. There is a palpable anti-Communist tone in certain portions of the book, which is annoying because in countries like Vietnam the system would be corrupt whether you called the ruling class \\"the Communist Party\\", \\"the Socialist Party\\", or even the \\"Coalition of Freely Elected Non-Party Affiliated Officials\\". Templer seems to direct wrath at Communism that is more logically directed at a corrupt system and entrenched power in general. <br />Second, some of the chapters are just notthat interesting. One chapter seems to be \\"the architecture chapter\\". That's just not the kind of thing that someone who buys a text-only book on Vietnam is interested in, in general. <BR>Third, the detail Templer goes into is admirable, and shows how well-researched the book is, but it isn't that interesting. After a while, the anecdotes in a particular chapter all seem to run together. I got the sense that this book could have been cut down to a friendlier length if each chapter had contained only one major anecdote. <BR>Overall, it's a decent book, especially if your library already contains some books about the country, but if you're only going to read one book on Vietnam, this DEFINITELY shouldn't be it.	2003-03-17
US	36716654	R2LX7S9ZZFJ1AO	0195137876	877325275	The Sacred Willow: Four Generations in the Life of a Vietnamese Family	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Recommended by a Vietnamese friend; did not disappoint	I did not realize the importance of reading a book written from a Vietnamese viewpoint until I began reading other books on Vietnam written from Western viewpoints. Certain events, such as the lasting meaning of the Tet Offensive of 1968 and Vietnam's engagement of the Khmer Rouge are shown in a completely different light in \\"Sacred Willow\\". <BR>In addition, Elliot's coverage of an unwieldly time span is impressively complete, even though the ealiest events comprise only a few chapters of this 500-page tome. <BR>Elliot keeps her references to her experiences in America to the bare minimum necessary to flesh out the story, which I found appropriate in a book about Vietnam (not about the Vietnamese-American immigrant experience). There are several memoirs out there dealing with Vietnam, but none are as clearly focused on Vietnam, or have near as broad a depth as this book. I am utterly satisfied and excited to have this one in my personal library.	2003-03-16
