US	36727219	R1JQ0GU88G3VF3	0563486287	357789913	Doctor Who: The Clockwise Man	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Good and Bad of the New Series	This is, as even the most blind of persons would know, the first novel based upon the new series of Doctor Who.  The novel stars the 9th Doctor and his companion, Rose, no huge surprise since their pictures are on the front cover of a really nicely done hardback book (which, as noted by a few others, is so much better than the weaker paperbacks the BBC has given us for the 8th and Past Doctors).  I wont go into the story that is found in this book as most likely, if you are already looking at this book, you have either read it and wish to know what other fans of the Doctor has to say about this book, or you'll get it anyway because you are said fan of the Doctor Who series and you like to collect all the knickknacks of Doctor Who.  For me, the book was a pleasant read, over all.  The characters were the usual set of Doctor Who characters, from the main characters themselves (Doc and Rose) to the supporting cast.  The book is not a complicated storyline, as would be found in the 8th Doctor novels and even more so in the Virgin novels so long ago (at least now it seems so long ago).  I really liked the story myself, and I think it is worth reading.  But yes, there is a big \\"however\\" that I am in need of confessing...<br /><br />First off, the BBC published the 9th Doctor's novels here in the States before they brought the new series over here.  Thus we read the books before we even got to see the first adventure, Rose, let alone the whole series which was recently played on the Science Fiction Network.  At least with the 8th Doctor movie, which I will say I'm a big fan of along with the other 8th Doc's adventures, we got to see the movie first and then stepped into the many adventures awaiting the 8th Doctor.  Not so here, for me I feel that it is important to let the fans see the new Doctor (in this case the 9th) and then they understand the motivations and the quirks of the main characters.  Thus you really didn't know the 9th Doctor and you just had to pick up pieces here and there through the six novels that star the 9th Doctor.  It would have been nice to really know how Chris Eccleston showed himself as the Doctor before reading how the 9th Doctor was like in the six books that star the 9th Doctor.  Which leads to the second problem...<br /><br />Apparently, secondly, there will only be said 6 novels of the 9th Doctor at least for a long time being.  This is a big problem for me because we the fans do not know much about the history behind the 9th Doctor except for the few snippets we gained through watching the first season (which is a good season and a worthy addition to any Doc Who DVD collection).  It would be so nice for the BBC to actually give us novels of how the regeneration between the 8th Doctor and the lead in into the 9th Doctor's adventures... such as the infamous Time Wars...what was this war about?  Besides between the Time Lords and the Daleks.  How did it start and what really happened at the conclusion?  What were some of the adventures that existed for the Doctor between the end of the Time Wars and the first show of the series, Rose?  I really hope the BBC lets us know one of these days.  For now, there will sadly be only be six 9th Doctor books.  This for me is a big let down.  I want more novels with the 9th Doctor.<br /><br />I wont take stars off for these two points of problems simply because these points are not the book's fault.  In the end I say that the Clockwise Man is a wonderful addition to the Doctor Who library.  There isn't much new in the book that you haven't seen in so many other stories, but still I liked it myself and I think you will too.  Also, the story isn't as in-depth as the stories found in the 8th and Past Doctor Who novels, but sometimes that is a good thing.  I would hope you'd pick this book up because I think you, as a fan, would like it very much...along with the other new series books (from Clockwise to I Am a Dalek).ieces here and there through the six novels that star the 9th Doctor.  It would have been nice to really know how Chris Eccleston showed himself as the Doctor before reading how the 9th Doctor was like in the six books that star the 9th Doctor.  Which leads to the second problem... <br /> <br />Apparently, secondly, there will only be said 6 novels of the 9th Doctor at least for a long time being.  This is a big problem for me because we the fans do not know much about the history behind the 9th Doctor except for the few snippets we gained through watching the first season (which is a good season and a worthy addition to any Doc Who DVD collection).  It would be so nice for the BBC to actually give us novels of how the regeneration between the 8th Doctor and the lead in into the 9th Doctor's adventures... such as the infamous Time Wars...what was this war about?  Besides between the Time Lords and the Daleks.  How did it start and what really happened at the conclusion?  What were some of the adventures that existed for the Doctor between the end of the Time Wars and the first show of the series, Rose?  I really hope the BBC lets us know one of these days.  For now, there will sadly be only be six 9th Doctor books.  This for me is a big let down.  I want more novels with the 9th Doctor. <br /> <br />I wont take stars off for these two points of problems simply because these points are not the book's fault.  In the end I say that the Clockwise Man is a wonderful addition to the Doctor Who library.  There isn't much new in the book that you haven't seen in so many other stories, but still I liked it myself and I think you will too.  Also, the story isn't as in-depth as the stories found in the 8th and Past Doctor Who novels, but sometimes that is a good thing.  I would hope you'd pick this book up because I think you, as a fan, would like it very much...along with the other new series books (from Clockwise to I Am a Dalek).	2005-09-15
US	36727219	R2UFL9Q286VBD7	0802837883	991590824	Old Testament Survey: The Message, Form, and Background of the Old Testament	Books	4	11	17	N	N	It is an interesting read	I am going to seminary right now and this is the book being used for OT I (going from Genesis to Kings.  I find the book an easy to read book, the way the chapters themselves are set up are fairly straight forward, giving consideration and theory.  I would imagine that I'm probably more conservative than the writers of the book, but then again, I take things with a grain of salt ... by that I mean I go back and trust that the Bible is to be taken as a literal word of God and message of God to we who are the human race.<br /><br />(By literally I mean my \\"five finger rules--literal history as with creation and the virgin birth as examples; literal ministry as with the teachings of the Law in the OT and the teachings of the verification of the Law through Jesus Christ in the NT; literal prophecy, that is that the prophecies of OT and NT can be trusted as God's revelation to us of the &lt;now> past, the present, and the future; literal analogy as with the parable; and finally literal symbolism as with saying Jesus is the Lamb of God.)<br /><br />The one gripe I have about the book is that I dont like how it is distributed.  There are chapters on geography and language and such later in the book, something I would rather have at the first of the book because that gives the reader the background so when we the reader starts to read about Genesis and forward, we understand the geographical, cultural, et al background to beginning our read on their interpretation of Genesis and forward.  Me myself while I might agree and disagree with some of what they right, the points are there so that the class as a whole can come together and discuss what is the ultimate truth-that the OT is the ground that pointed toward the coming, the verification, the life, the ministry, the death, the resurrection of Jesus Christ and played an all important foundation as being the Scripture used by the apostles and the early church to teach the truth of the Lord God.<br /><br />I would not suggest that you read this for \\"fun\\" as in just a book to pick up and have a few days worth of read.  That wont work with this one, but if you need some help and some thoughts toward your college courses (Master Degree forward and upward) this is the book that can give you some assistance.suggest that you read this for \\"fun\\" as in just a book to pick up and have a few days worth of read.  That wont work with this one, but if you need some help and some thoughts toward your college courses (Master Degree forward and upward) this is the book that can give you some assistance.	2005-09-08
US	36727219	R2359XH7ESF8SK	1563893789	976494056	True Faith	Books	1	3	31	N	N	An example of hatred toward Christians	I was first introduced to Garth Ennis work in Hellblazer, then from there to Preacher.  I was of course a non-Christian at the time, so having the same kind of hatred he has for anything Christian, I fell into his writing style's \\"lap\\" so to speak.  After coming back to the church, after reexamining the hate that pours from each page (no matter which comic he writes, whether we are talking about Goddess or True Faith or Hellblazer or Preacher) of his work, I was glad to throw them all away.  Seeing this book, I am not surprised that it is another one of Mr. Ennis's work.  He is, after all, one who holds a great hatred toward anyone Christian and anything Christian, especially fundamentalist Christian.  If you believe in God, if you believe in Christ, as with Ennis' cliche again and again in his comic books, then you will be attacked, slandered, and beaten until your bloody in the face because that's just how Mr. Ennis' style of work has to be so that he feels good about himself.  I would imagine that if Mr Ennis had written a book that was pro-abortion clinic bombings (as he and his type like to cliche those of us who are Christian as being, those of us who say we are pro life are labeled nuts by people like Ennis) I would imagine a million one stars, but as this is about showing hatred and resentment toward Christians and Christianity, I can understand how those of his ilk like to throw mud at anything religious.  Yet after awhile, when you take into account all of Mr. Ennis' works, from Hellblazer to Preacher to this graphic novel, True Faith, one stops being insulted and stops being hurt toward his attacks, and just get tired and bored...because mindless repetitive hatred like Ennis holds just makes you throw your hands in the air, say \\"whatever\\" to yourself, and just walk away.  So, I walk away from this style of comic book and comic book writing and I find myself a better man for it.	2005-08-18
US	36727219	R3OKLFSHCUJZF4	1844162265	111924270	Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay: Old World Bestiary, Vol. 1	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A definite addition to any Game Master	I have to say I like this \\"monster companion\\" much more than some of the other rpgs that are out there at the moment.  Instead of giving one or two paragraphs about the monster, and the main focus being on the statistics of the monster, this supplement to the WFRPG is a delight.  It examines the ins and out of what makes up a creature in the Warhammer world, whether the normal orc style bad guy to the demons and the dragons.  This is not an index of monsters, this is (and this might sound silly) the National Geographics of monster exploration.  What makes up a creature in the Warhammer world?  What provokes the creature on and off the battlefield or dungeon or city, what action does the creature normally take in day to day, why does the monster do as he does?  A GM worth his or her salt will look at this book and truly see villains and creatures to be encountered in the vast campaign of Warhammer, not some lvl 2 goblin that is placed in room 5 like some games are designed.  We GMs are tired of just having creatures for the sake of placing them into some room to be encountered, after encountering another creature beforehand in the earlier room.  We GMs, like this book hands us, want meat in our creatures, we want them to have their own reasons and whys, we want them to have their own character for the sake of the game world's dynamics.  What might be a simple orc encountered in a dungeon in another game, becomes a 3-dimensional villain in this game's makeup.	2005-08-12
US	36727219	RONN8ASJ8K0RZ	0768421861	290065446	From Iraq to Armageddon	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A book on prophecy to appreciate	I'd have to say this is one of the better books that are out there right now that deal with the End Times prophecies. While Tim LaHaye has some great books, such as his commentary on the Book of Jesus' Revelation, what I like about this book is that it deals with the prospects of the End Times through the eyes of Jewish believers in Christ Jesus who is the Lord and Savior, the way, the only way, to the Father.  Such a concept as Messianic Jewish p.o.v. is missing in a lot of commentaries and explorations on Bible that you can pick up in the stores.  The author explores the ideas of how what is going on in the Middle East, right now, shows the road that is being paved toward Christ Jesus' return.  Any true Christian who desires to understand the last days should pick this book up and appreciate what Messianic Jews have to say about the End Times.  Intrater examines the horrors of wars (seen and unseen) going on in the Middle East, circling around Israel, he also examines how the spirit of Babylon and the AntiChrist are coming to the front, along with the coming of the 144,000 Jewish believers who will spread the word after the Rapture occurs.  Even if you end up disagreeing with a point or two by the author, you wont be sorry because it helps to understand how a Jewish believer feels toward what is going on in history as of right now and how it leads toward a designated future, designated by the Lord God through His revelations to us in Scripture.	2005-07-30
US	36727219	RXAHCL695ZH9A	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	5	7	15	N	N	A New Review and a New Look at the Book	I originally went with most of the one or two stars, blasting the book because it was not what ... at first ... what I (as the constant reader, right?) wanted it to be.  I expected the final book to have everything, and a few kitchen sinks planted into it. When I got the book, when I read through the first half of the book, I was discouraged.  The book wasn't like anything I imagined or hoped it would be.  I was angry that Jake, Eddie, and Oye got killed.  I was angry that Flagg got killed the way he got killed.  I was angry that the Crimson King went the way he went.  Thus I came here, fueled by my lost expectations, and I gave the book one star.<br /><br />Now, now though, I retract that and I give you what's real and what's true.  I was wrong because I was judging the book as if I was the one who was meant to write the series and finish the series.  It was my pride that brought anger toward SK, not reason and literary truth.  At least as true as this constant reader can tell you since picking up the first book so many ages ago it seems.  I hate to say it, but Stephen King got the entire series right.  He did his best and he showed himself well.  You see, it isn't about Flagg, or Oye, or Jake, or whom else.  The story about the Dark Tower isn't even about the ka/fate/death and rebirth cycle Roland saw when he finally entered into the Tower.  More about that in a little bit.  Right now, I will tell you what the series is all about, and how it finishes here in the seventh book of the DT series.  It is about Roland and his obsession.<br /><br />You see, all the others were just mild bit players.  They were characters we loved to champion and they were characters we hated and wanted to see them going down in a ball of flame.  Still, they were only props for the stage.  Even Roland himself was not the main character.  The main character was his obsession.  Obsession for his own wants, his own desires.  Obsession with the Dark Tower.  Heck, we all know that Roland himself didn't know what he wanted to do there, when he got to the Tower.  He didn't even know what the Tower was, except through esoteric thoughts and muses now and then.  Nor did the beams really matter much for Roland, except rescuing them served his purpose to get to the Tower.  That's all.<br /><br />Sure we are mad that Jake got killed again.  And we are mad that Stephen King was in one part of the final three books one after the next.  Still. Even SK didn't matter in the long run.  All that mattered, in the end, when all is said and done, is Roland finally got to his Tower.  And when he got there what did he see?  He saw his obsession.  His struggles.  His treks over and over again throughout the limitless tributaries of time and space.  We say to ourselves that the tower isn't like what we had thought it would be...but really...how could we as mere mortals really step out and see what the Tower is, if the Tower is beyond our own comprehension...much less Roland's...much less Stephen King's.  Could Jacob, in the real world so long ago, understand the ladder that reached between heaven and earth?  Could Peter really comprehend that when he looked in Jesus' eyes, he was looking into the One that had created all the entire universe?<br /><br />Stephen King.  If you read this, though I seriously doubt you will.  I would love to buy you a drink of your favorite ale.  What you did was right, I didn't like it, but a lot of times, the right thing to do isn't the most enjoyed thing to be done.himself didn't know what he wanted to do there, when he got to the Tower.  He didn't even know what the Tower was, except through esoteric thoughts and muses now and then.  Nor did the beams really matter much for Roland, except rescuing them served his purpose to get to the Tower.  That's all. <br /> <br />Sure we are mad that Jake got killed again.  And we are mad that Stephen King was in one part of the final three books one after the next.  Still. Even SK didn't matter in the long run.  All that mattered, in the end, when all is said and done, is Roland finally got to his Tower.  And when he got there what did he see?  He saw his obsession.  His struggles.  His treks over and over again throughout the limitless tributaries of time and space.  We say to ourselves that the tower isn't like what we had thought it would be...but really...how could we as mere mortals really step out and see what the Tower is, if the Tower is beyond our own comprehension...much less Roland's...much less Stephen King's.  Could Jacob, in the real world so long ago, understand the ladder that reached between heaven and earth?  Could Peter really comprehend that when he looked in Jesus' eyes, he was looking into the One that had created all the entire universe?   <br /> <br />Stephen King.  If you read this, though I seriously doubt you will.  I would love to buy you a drink of your favorite ale.  What you did was right, I didn't like it, but a lot of times, the right thing to do isn't the most enjoyed thing to be done.	2005-07-24
US	36727219	R341RAVGDZZVBW	0786932732	977574534	d20 Apocalypse: A d20 Modern Supplement	Books	2	10	25	N	N	Not the best suppliment out there	I'd have to say that this is a pretty weak supplement, much like the D20 past.  Instead of something well developed like D20 Future, this one just kind of sits on the shelf for any GM worth his or her salt, because such a GM will be able to find the same kinds of materials elsewhere or he or she can work on their own.  This book could have had a lot of promise, much like D20 Past could have had a lot of promise, but in order to ship the book(s) on time, a lot of good ideas (I hope and pray) were left behind on the drawing board.  When I Had heard about these two (Past and Apocalypse) books coming out, I was hoping for something with meat like D20 Future...sadly, I was mistaken on both books.<br /><br />I will use the \\"End Times\\" Apocalypse storyline in this supplement as an example.  First and foremost, besides the fact that it holds absolutely no understanding of the Bible's p.o.v. of the Last Day, the storyline is the exact (95% imo) reprint of The End rpg in my opinion.  From the concept of what the characters are to be like, to the concept of what angels are suppose to be like, I really see very little difference besides the fact that you might not have ever heard of the rgp The End and thus haven't a clue about what it speaks of in its rule book.  The way the characters are fixed, needing to figure out if they are going to be \\"good guys\\" or \\"bad guys\\" (yawn) who will fight for or against the angels who are good or evil (either way, having the stereotypical bad personality), I'd have to say I'm not seeing anything new folks. Even if I didn't have a clue myself as to what The End was like, the concepts are nothing new and the GM information could have been thought up by a 6th grader.	2005-07-18
US	36727219	R2FPEN3TNTOU23	1578569052	74334556	Dinner with a Perfect Stranger: An Invitation Worth Considering	Books	4	27	37	N	N	A well needed relook at who Jesus Is	We in the Christian community sometimes forget who and what Jesus is to us.  We forget that Jesus is King (as shown in Acts and Revelation), when we focus too much on Jesus the Savior (as seen in the Gospels); then other times we focus so much on Jesus the King, that we forget the intimate relationship that comes with Jesus being the Savior.  This book helps to bring both sides of Jesus' nature into focus so that we can appreciate who God is to us through Jesus who is Savior and King.  The book that you read here is fair, despite what that folks from Publisher's Weekly have to say (who are all for Political Correctness and hate true, literal Christianity).  The arguments against Hinduism, Buddhism, et al, are important arguments that are focused into getting to the point instead of long drawn out arguments that you can study when you read a book by Josh McDowell.  The points that the Jesus character has to make are valid but conversational in tone, so you do not feel like you are getting flooded by technical apologetics.  This is a wonderful book to start a conversation with a questioning friend, a small book to talk over a cup of tea.  There are many, many people out there like Nick who is the one having the dinner with Jesus.  There are many people, due to liberalized Christianity and this secular society we live in, who have such a scarred view toward the Bible and what the Bible truly has to say about everything--from who Jesus really is to what other religions really are.  Because there are many people like Nick, then you the Christian reader can easily use this as a jump start in bringing people to Christ Jesus.  This is a book to use to start one's witnessing to someone who's life is empty (despite what their pride and desires have to say) because they do not have the living water and the living bread that God offers to them through His Son Jesus Christ who is the Alpha and the Omega, the I Am, the Word of God.	2005-07-14
US	36727219	R61NLXPCOSUOQ	0060761288	877820062	100 People Who Are Screwing Up America (And Al Franken Is #37)	Books	3	145	251	N	N	Interesting, but...	I come to this book as a Christian Republican, so I am sure that will give a lot of people a reason to hit \\"not helpful\\" when reading this review just because I'm a \\"Christian Republican\\" which means I'm someone who automatically (in the far Left's ideologies) hates \\"women\\" and \\"minorities\\" among others.  Not that it matters much what others think of me, still I will be curious to see how many not helpful points I'll rack up.<br /><br />Anyway.  This book is a curiosity, but it isn't and shouldn't be expected as a \\"heavy hitting socio-political\\" theses.  Many of the people listed as \\"problem people\\" I can understand why, but to me, I don't really base my reality on people like Michael Jackson, Al Franken, John Kerry, or even Hillary Clinton.  I know their views, I have seen them on television and through discussions and through books and articles in the press.  I disagree with them on many issues, doesn't mean I hate them, just means that I choose to disagree with them.  Nor for that matter do I base my reality on people like Anne Coulter or Rush Limbaugh.  I dont even own books by those two.  I see those two Republican \\"spokes people\\" as I see this book, a curiosity piece of socio-political fluff to read through but not take seriously.  That doesn't mean that this fellow doesn't have some important points to make, it's just that this book isn't Republican Bible #47.<br /><br />Let's take an example or two from the list and dissect why I feel the way I feel toward this book.  Say, Eminem and Paris Hilton's parents.  Ok, I will say that I do not care for Enimem's music because I have strong convictions against what the lyrics has to say--from bashing to profanity.  He has a lot of strong, dark, and very pornographic thoughts being sold off the many albums he's made.  His albums contain sorridness to such a high degree in terms of sex, violence, racism, bigotry, you name it, if it has nothing to do with a moral compass, then it's in his albums.  Yet he can be seen on both hiphop and teenager magazines, promoting himself and his views.  Then we have Paris Hilton's folks, looking at Paris Hilton, I'd say they forgot to give her a moral compass to act and react by in life.  She has a lot of sleaziness in the way she promotes herself.  This is more than just her taste in clothes, this is her consideration of living her life.  There is nothing honorable or noble about who she is, at least in my honest opinion.  And like Eminem, a lot of young people are drawn to her and her style and her actions and reactions.<br /><br />So then if these three individuals (Eminem and the father and mother of Paris Hilton) are \\"screwing up America,\\" I'd say that yes I agree with that assumption, in some sense, because a great deal of young people are learning their (Eminem and Paris Hilton's) lifestyle and that is detrimental to themselves and those around them in my opinion.  So yes, I can say that to an extent these people are screwing up America.  So.  So what?  What can be done?  There doesn't seem to be a full fledged, honest, down to earth, answer being given.  How do we turn the young people of today away from such pornographic people as Eminem and Paris, and toward a more noble moral compass to live by?  How do we get into the very psyche of our society to show that there is a better way to live than spewing out sex and profanity every other minute of the day.  For this book, I dont see any sort term and long term answers.  I don't really see any practical answers, to be exact.  And that is the big problem about the book I'd have to say.  I can make a list of my own top ten people I think are bringing America down, heck, I am sure you could make a list, but if there are no answers to bridge what is happening in the short term with what should be (for the best of society) in a long term, then we are just blowing a lot of hot air.<br /><br />Of course I would agree with the author's assessment that liberals, as a whole, do not care about individuals (whether babies or adults or the elderly) they care about causes, and not causes based upon intellectual grounds but causes based upon pure emotionalism.  I would agree with the author that, from what I've seen over the past few years (growing stronger and stronger in the minds of liberals) is the hatred toward our troops and toward or Christian heritage.  For example, we have such \\"charming\\" liberals as Senator Dick Durbin who goes out of his way to insult our brave troops out in the world, calling our troops Nazis and followers of Pol Pot's ideologies.  That's really pathetic, I'd have to say, because we should be (even if we do not agree with military action) supportive of these men and women who are willing to forgo the easy life and go out into the world to fight for the protection of the United States and for Democracy and for human rights.  For another example of liberal hatred toward Christians, we have such people as \\"Bishop\\" Spong and Steve Pearcy who wish to either (in Bishop's case) liberalize Christianity by taking truth out of Bible and supplementing political correctness or (in Pearcy's case) wanting to ridicule and fling mud at the Lord our God simply because while he says he has the right to disagree with Christianity and terrorize Christianity, we as Christians have no rights in and of ourselves and our free speech.  Remember, liberals are the ones who say it is alright to abort a child because it is a \\"woman's issue\\" when it really has nothing to do with being a \\"woman's issue\\", instead, prolife is about protecting a child's life, an innocent child's life.  Like I said, liberals want nothing more to do than to bemoan and groan about their causes while setting aside truth, respect, and honor simply because liberals haven't a clue toward what truth, respect, and honor means.<br /><br />Furthermore besides the fact that there seems to be no down to earth answers being provided by the author of this book, the biggest problem for me is that this book is being taken too serious by too many people.  You cant take a book serious if it is going to take shots at people who seem to be bringing down society but not having any real answers for ourselves and our kids and our society at large.  Too many people seem to be taking the overall subject of the book to heart.  They either find it \\"absolute true\\" and should be loved or \\"absolute false\\" and should be vilified; myself, I choose neither points of view, I choose to see it as an interesting read but I am grown up enough to know that I have chosen my views through my study of the views and not through someone else telling me what to believe.  Too many people on both sides of the views on this book seems to take it far more serious than it should be taken.  This book should be considered a trivia style book, interesting to read, but please, dont turn it into Scripture.ts or the elderly) they care about causes, and not causes based upon intellectual grounds but causes based upon pure emotionalism.  I would agree with the author that, from what I've seen over the past few years (growing stronger and stronger in the minds of liberals) is the hatred toward our troops and toward or Christian heritage.  For example, we have such \\"charming\\" liberals as Senator Dick Durbin who goes out of his way to insult our brave troops out in the world, calling our troops Nazis and followers of Pol Pot's ideologies.  That's really pathetic, I'd have to say, because we should be (even if we do not agree with military action) supportive of these men and women who are willing to forgo the easy life and go out into the world to fight for the protection of the United States and for Democracy and for human rights.  For another example of liberal hatred toward Christians, we have such people as \\"Bishop\\" Spong and Steve Pearcy who wish to either (in Bishop's case) liberalize Christianity by taking truth out of Bible and supplementing political correctness or (in Pearcy's case) wanting to ridicule and fling mud at the Lord our God simply because while he says he has the right to disagree with Christianity and terrorize Christianity, we as Christians have no rights in and of ourselves and our free speech.  Remember, liberals are the ones who say it is alright to abort a child because it is a \\"woman's issue\\" when it really has nothing to do with being a \\"woman's issue\\", instead, prolife is about protecting a child's life, an innocent child's life.  Like I said, liberals want nothing more to do than to bemoan and groan about their causes while setting aside truth, respect, and honor simply because liberals haven't a clue toward what truth, respect, and honor means.      Furthermore besides the fact that there seems to be no down to earth answers being provided by the author of this book, the biggest problem for me is that this book is being taken too serious bytoo many people.  You cant take a book serious if it is going to take shots at people who seem to be bringing down society but not having any real answers for ourselves and our kids and our society at large.  Too many people seem to be taking the overall subject of the book to heart.  They either find it \\"absolute true\\" and should be loved or \\"absolute false\\" and should be vilified; myself, I choose neither points of view, I choose to see it as an interesting read but I am grown up enough to know that I have chosen my views through my study of the views and not through someone else telling me what to believe.  Too many people on both sides of the views on this book seems to take it far more serious than it should be taken.  This book should be considered a trivia style book, interesting to read, but please, dont turn it into Scripture.	2005-07-14
US	36727219	R23FGMZ9QRBGKT	0385510217	40319694	Why the Jews Rejected Jesus: The Turning Point in Western History	Books	1	16	77	N	N	I would have to kindly disagree with this author	First and foremost the title is misleading, and that is unfortunate.  I understand where the author is coming from, but I would have to disagree with him by way of Scriptural understanding.  I would say that, as Scriptural history, and all of Scripture can be and is trustworthy as the literal truth of God's revelation to mankind, shows that it wasn't the total Jewish nation that had rejected Christ Jesus.  Indeed, if you study Scripture, such as the end of the Gospels that discuss the 40 some odd days after the resurrection of Jesus and the beginning of Acts, many, many Jews did accept Jesus as the prophesied Messiah. I will explain in detail now what I am talking about.  Even further, if you are a student of modern day Messianic Judaism, you would see a growing trend of the Jewish people accepting Jesus as the Messiah prophesied by God (Genesis) through the Major and Minor Prophets through the final prophet of the OT, John the Baptist.<br /><br />To begin with the ultimate rejection came first and foremost from the many leaders of the Jewish people.  It would be, most common, for the comman man and woman and child who would realize the importance of Jesus as more than just \\"a good man\\" or \\"good teacher\\" but to realize first and foremost that He was/is Prophecy fulfilled.  Of course they the Jewish Leaders knew the Scriptures, but they wanted a Warrior Messiah for their own desires of power in throwing off the shackles of the Roman empire.  They did not want what the prophets had spoken as first and foremost for the Messiah, to come as the Suffering Servant that would bless the Jews and then from the Jews bless the world (as spoken of in OT) by taking upon Himself the sins that began with the Curse of Adam that not only cursed the Human race but also cursed nature/the earth and the universe around.  Nor did the Jewish leaders want (of course there were those leaders like Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus who would follow Jesus and believe in His life) a Savior who would go around healing people and speaking proverbs.  They the jealous leaders could not understand nor did they want to understand that ultimate salvation would first and foremost have to come from the sacrifice of the Holy Lamb of God the Son the Word of the I AM.  And ultimately through the gift of the Cross and the Resurrection there would then be means for Christ as Messiah King to come.<br /><br />I will now give scriptural examples of how the OT prophecies were fulfilled in the NT:  Genesis 3:15b fulfilled in Luke 1:31-33; Genesis 3:15c fulfilled in Matthiew 27:27-50; 2 Sam 7:12 a fulfilled in Matthew 1:1-6;  Ps 2:1-3 fulfilled in Luke 23:1-5c; Ps 22:14, 15, 17 fulfilled in Matthiew 27:27-50; Ps 89:26 and 27 fulfilled John 3:16, 35; Isaiah 53:5, 6, 12c as fulfilled in all four Gospels and then further explained in Romans 4:25a, Hebrews 9:28, and 1 Peter 2:24 and 25.  Also there are the prophecies that are fulfilled through the church age such as Genesis 12:3 fulfilled in Acts 1:8 and Deut 32:43a fulfilled in Romans 15:10 and Isaiah 8:18 fulfilled as shown in Hebrews 2:13b and Isaiah 11:10 fulfilled as shown in Romans 15:12.  There are at least a hundred more prophecies that were foretold throughout the OT that had been fulfilled by Jesus, those I just mentioned are but a few.  There are also many hundreds more prophecies that describe first from the OT and then through NT, both Scriptures being reliable, to show what and how the Second Coming will be like.  Hence, to say that prophecies are \\"figurative and symbolic\\" instead of literal prophecies from God to us that are to come true or have come true already, both the OT and the NT are worthless and should be forgotten--along with throwing away anything of the value that Judeo-Christianity has brought to the world (from Salvation to Children's rights to Women's rights to the United State's birth and original government).<br /><br />Remember, it was mostly the Jewish leaders who fully rejected Christ Jesus whois the Savior and Messiah.  The leaders did not want a Savior they wanted a King, despite the fact that they begrudgingly acknowledged the power behind Christ Jesus' miracles and passions.  While there were some naysayers among the middle class and lower class levels too of Jewish society at that time (those who lived in Israel and those who would later learn from the brave missionaries like Paul) that also rejected Christ Jesus, many and most of the lower levels of society were gratified and joyful at Jesus.  And while it was prophetic that Israel would be rebutted by God for the lack of faith in God's Messiah, as seen in what happened in AD 70 as foretold by Christ Himself in the Olivette Discourse, there were still...I say up to this very day...many Jews who had come to salvation through Yeshua--Jesus the Messiah.  Remember what is said in the Gospel of John 1:10-13:  \\"He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him.  He came to that which was his own [the Jews], but his own did not receive him.  Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God--children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision or a husband's will, but born of God.\\"  Through Jesus' ministry lives were touched, body's were healed, and souls were set free from from the bondage of sin and hopelessness.  With Christ's death on the cross and His resurrection, a new hope based upon OT prophecies were fulfilled to the fullest concerning those of the First Coming of Christ.  At the day of Pentecost, thousands of men and women were brought into the family of God through the Holy Spirit's intervention (see Acts 2:41, then see Acts 5:14).<br /><br />So what about today?  The very fact that prophecy is again turning the wheels of fate is amazing.  The time of the Jew's dispersal is at an end, over all, with the Jewish people returning to their rightful homeland.  While there are still many Jews who do not agree with Jesus, Yeshua, being the Messiah, I would like to point out important organizations like Jews for Jesus and the publishing house, Destiny Image.  Through these organizations there have been a growing population both in Israel and abroad that have come to Christ as their personal Savior.  From these organizations several books have been published.  These books have a lot of really important books that both Gentile Christians and Hebrew Christians (and even nonbelievers) should read, the titles are the following:  Hebrew Christianity by Dr. Arnold G. Fruchtenbaum (isbn 0914863010); Israel The Church and the Last Days by Keith Intrater and Dan Juster (isbn 076842187x); and From Iraq to Armageddon by Keith Intrater (isbn 0768421861).  While I may disagree on some fine points in the last two titles, over all, they give an important and passionate perspective on Jews today who've had their lives transformed through the truth of Jesus, Yeshua.  There is also a Hebrew Christian Bible that is published by Dr. David Stern Complete Jewish Bible (isbn 9653590189) along with a helpful NT Commentary by the same author (isbn 9653590111).  A book that can be very helpful in witnessing to the Jewish peoples about the truth of Jesus/Yeshua, witnessing out of love to the Jews as either a Jew yourself or a Gentile, is Witnessing to Jews by Moishe and Ceil Rosen (isbn 1881022358).iah.  The leaders did not want a Savior they wanted a King, despite the fact that they begrudgingly acknowledged the power behind Christ Jesus' miracles and passions.  While there were some naysayers among the middle class and lower class levels too of Jewish society at that time (those who lived in Israel and those who would later learn from the brave missionaries like Paul) that also rejected Christ Jesus, many and most of the lower levels of society were gratified and joyful at Jesus.  And while it was prophetic that Israel would be rebutted by God for the lack of faith in God's Messiah, as seen in what happened in AD 70 as foretold by Christ Himself in the Olivette Discourse, there were still...I say up to this very day...many Jews who had come to salvation through Yeshua--Jesus the Messiah.  Remember what is said in the Gospel of John 1:10-13:  \\"He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him.  He came to that which was his own [the Jews], but his own did not receive him.  Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God--children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision or a husband's will, but born of God.\\"  Through Jesus' ministry lives were touched, body's were healed, and souls were set free from from the bondage of sin and hopelessness.  With Christ's death on the cross and His resurrection, a new hope based upon OT prophecies were fulfilled to the fullest concerning those of the First Coming of Christ.  At the day of Pentecost, thousands of men and women were brought into the family of God through the Holy Spirit's intervention (see Acts 2:41, then see Acts 5:14).    So what about today?  The very fact that prophecy is again turning the wheels of fate is amazing.  The time of the Jew's dispersal is at an end, over all, with the Jewish people returning to their rightful homeland.  While there are still many Jews who do not agree with Jesus,Yeshua, being the Messiah, I would like to point out important organizations like Jews for Jesus and the publishing house, Destiny Image.  Through these organizations there have been a growing population both in Israel and abroad that have come to Christ as their personal Savior.  From these organizations several books have been published.  These books have a lot of really important books that both Gentile Christians and Hebrew Christians (and even nonbelievers) should read, the titles are the following:  Hebrew Christianity by Dr. Arnold G. Fruchtenbaum (isbn 0914863010); Israel The Church and the Last Days by Keith Intrater and Dan Juster (isbn 076842187x); and From Iraq to Armageddon by Keith Intrater (isbn 0768421861).  While I may disagree on some fine points in the last two titles, over all, they give an important and passionate perspective on Jews today who've had their lives transformed through the truth of Jesus, Yeshua.  There is also a Hebrew Christian Bible that is published by Dr. David Stern Complete Jewish Bible (isbn 9653590189) along with a helpful NT Commentary by the same author (isbn 9653590111).  A book that can be very helpful in witnessing to the Jewish peoples about the truth of Jesus/Yeshua, witnessing out of love to the Jews as either a Jew yourself or a Gentile, is Witnessing to Jews by Moishe and Ceil Rosen (isbn 1881022358).	2005-07-04
US	36727219	RY78X47R6LPIF	0849935202	587587723	Death and the Life After	Books	5	27	28	N	N	An important book for all Christians to read	This book is not about the hereafter in the sense that it doesn't go into extreme detail as to what life will be like in the hereafter and then from there, to the New Heavens and the New Earth.  For that sort of details account and examination, always within a literal Biblical point of view, I would suggest Alcorn's Heaven.  This book, another masterfully explored book by Billy Graham, focuses on the here and now in such a way as to examining out outlook toward that day when we die (or even better, thank the Lord, when He comes and Raptures the church).  What does it mean in this, now, 21st century to live and to die?  What are we to make of the culture of death that we see in the media and across the United States--from the tragedy of the late Ms. Shiavo to abortion on demand and on to euthanasia for our elderly for any old cause or reason? Basically such deaths come about because they are convenient, not based on literal Christian point of view toward the meaning of life and the dignity of dying and death.  Graham asks and uses the Bible to answer questions such as \\"what does it mean to die as a Christian\\" verses \\"what does it mean to die without hope\\" (i.e. without Jesus Christ in your life as your Savior and King).  For those who are dying with Jesus as the Savior, as examined by Graham, there is peace even if the death is in the face of persecution by those who do not see the light.  For those who are dying without, well, there is only a slow decline into darkness, as Graham explains using the truth of the Bible.  Thus, Mr. Graham is not afraid to ask questions nor is he afraid to look for answers through the written words of the Lord and through those He has touched through the ages to be His messengers, great and small.  I would suggest anyone to take this book and seriously read it, examine what it has to say about death, dying, and eternity...work it into reading such books as Deadline and Heaven by Randy Alcorn...and really then falling on your hands and knees for a true talk with the Lord.  Here and now you need to understand the eternal truths of living and dying and eternity.  Graham points the way for the reader to go on and to use the Bible so that it shows the reader the foundations of truth and of forever.knees for a true talk with the Lord.  Here and now you need to understand the eternal truths of living and dying and eternity.  Graham points the way for the reader to go on and to use the Bible so that it shows the reader the foundations of truth and of forever.	2005-06-13
US	36727219	ROB58IFYYL67N	0679748407	587113700	Maus : A Survivor's Tale. I.  My Father Bleeds History. II. And Here My Troubles Began	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Important thoughts toward Maus	First of all, let me say that this book is important in that it brings a fresh look at how the Jews felt in facing the horrors of Nazism and the memories of those horrors.  What did it mean to the Jews when they were going through the hatred and the violence thrown at them throughout Nazi Europe during the Second World War?  What does it mean to Jews today, young who will hear stories and the elderly who will tell such tales?  Such thoughts are brought up in the mind as one reads the total works of Maus.  The graphic novel, I dare not call it a comic book, and graphic it is, is not a pleasant read but a necessary read nonetheless.  You will learn much and hopefully you will gain a better appreciation and a greater love for our Jewish brothers and sisters as they face the same sense of racism from much of an uncaring Western Europe today along with a hatred by many Middle Easterners.<br /><br />Secondly, to those of you who are concerned about the depiction of the Polish as pigs, yes that is a valid consideration, but let us go deeper as to why?  One might consider the tale of Maus as the same light as Night by Elie Wiesel meets Animal Farm by Orwell.  You say that the author is being racist for calling Poles \\"pigs\\" well then what about why does Spiegelman picture the other nationalities as animals?  Frogs for French?  Besides the obvious cliche of calling French \\"Frogs\\"...why are Americans considered Dogs?  How does that animal represent the group that Spiegelman is writing about in Maus?  Go deeper and examine how each group is seen through the eyes of the Jewish \\"Mouse\\".  Examine how each animal's characteristics is considered throughout the entire story of Maus.  Not that I am saying it is ok to be racist against the Polish, as that is what is being worried about, but still one must step out of the box per say and see beyond the obvious into the intimate.<br /><br />Third, going back to the graphic novels, what I think is most important is when the Son confronts the Father for destroying the Mother's writings about the experience of the Holocaust... calling the Father a murderer for destroying such important information.  Why?  Because when we decide to forget massive amounts of evil, whether it be the Holocaust or the Spanish Inquisition or the Crusades...we end up repeating them.  As the saying goes.  Even more so, by murdering the memories, we are denying evil, and that is something none of us can do.  We must not deny evil, because to deny evil is to accept evil, and evil should never be accepted.  From the fall of Man to 9-11, man has shown himself to be a sinner, fallen short of the glory of what God wants out of Man, thankfully God sent His Son to die for us and to beat death for us.the Father for destroying the Mother's writings about the experience of the Holocaust... calling the Father a murderer for destroying such important information.  Why?  Because when we decide to forget massive amounts of evil, whether it be the Holocaust or the Spanish Inquisition or the Crusades...we end up repeating them.  As the saying goes.  Even more so, by murdering the memories, we are denying evil, and that is something none of us can do.  We must not deny evil, because to deny evil is to accept evil, and evil should never be accepted.  From the fall of Man to 9-11, man has shown himself to be a sinner, fallen short of the glory of what God wants out of Man, thankfully God sent His Son to die for us and to beat death for us.	2005-06-11
US	36727219	R3PGW79L7TTMQ9	1844162206	320523251	Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay Rulebook	Books	4	15	29	N	N	A few more  thoughts	I have to say that I've always loved the Warhammer fantasy world and rules.  The original WFRPG was an awesome feat of character development in a rich and ... to my taste... grimmer world than much of what D&D had to offer at the time (and still does imo).  As the other noted, there are problems with spelling errors and such, so I do not have to go into that.  Here are some suggestions though for the future of Warhammer FRPG and I do hope that you designers take note of what I am about to suggest as these are important (at least for me):<br /><br />1) create a system to bring the old characters I might have into the new rule system as there are many rule updates that need to be fixed with the old characters that I have.  There is a need for linking the past to the present.<br /><br />2) link the rules to the Warhammer Fantasy Battle system.  I want to be able to take my characters on and off the battle fields of the Warhammer world, it would be nice to have rules linking one to the other.<br /><br />3) go like you are going in terms of creating adventurers.  What is so nice about Warhammer games is that you can go from one campaign in a city to the horrors of the wilderness in no time flat.  No going from room a to b to c like D&D is at times.<br /><br />4) have a companion with statistics for many of the characters both good and bad that we love from the Warhammer novels, I'd enjoy seeing my chars move along behind the trails of those like Konrad.<br /><br />5) stay focused dont decide to put out a suppliment for every single thought that comes to mind.  One of the problems I have with 3.5 D&D is that there are too many books coming out that seem to flow over unto one another and are unneeded.  Focus on one suppliment at a time.<br /><br />I would suggest Warhammer to any true player and game master.  The world is rich in gothic horror and high adventure, while the character development is simple so that you wont have to look up in the rule book every other minute to see if you can do or not do a certain action.  Easy.  Complete.  Enjoy.other minute to see if you can do or not do a certain action.  Easy.  Complete.  Enjoy.	2005-06-10
US	36727219	R10Q8JE5F3KGA8	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	4	3	18	N	N	A thought or two about this book...	To begin with, let us realize some things here people.  And yes, I will state right off that I come to this book as (big surprise!) a Christian with a premillennialist point of view.  Still, I will strive to be fair about this when I discuss some of the problems I have with the reviews and some of the good and bad about the book itself.<br /><br />If you are not a Christian, you aren't going to get it.  Thus the reason why you complain that it has a Christian point of view.  Well dear me, I'm shocked! A book from the Christian section of most bookstores written by two predominate Christian authors (both fiction and nonfiction)?  What's the shock!  Both writers, well though they are no Hemingway or Faulkner, are good at what they are doing here.  The book is to be read with just enough excitement and suspense to invite you to the next book, while also having characters you can readily relate to.<br /><br />Secondly, you are not going to understand the book if you dont have at least some understanding of Biblical prophecy.  This is not just reading the Book of Revelation, but understanding the whole Bible's worth of prophecies about the Last Days.  You may be an amillennialist, like many a Catholic, or one who has a historical point of view toward Revelation (that is, that it was only dealing with situations mostly found in the first AD church).  Ok you may not agree with the premillennialist point of view, but come on, you should at least accept them to state their argument and consider all sides of the argument.  In the end, you may still not agree with it, still, at least listen to what they have to say and why they say.<br /><br />Now about the book itself and my feelings toward it and the series.  I must say that I like the book.  It is easy to read, something that you can read on a coffee break or before bed.  Sure.  It is not literature.  It is not meant for you to go and get a doctrine in prophetic study at the local Bible college.  Just sit back, enjoy reading it, enjoy seeing the action and the suspense of what happens.  It is a book.  I am sure so many of you complain about how people fuss about the Harry Potter books, and you say \\"its just fiction\\" well so is this book, accept it at the very least as fiction and just enjoy the action and adventure (which I would say there is a lot of).  This is a good series, there isn't any sex, any cursing, and while there is violence, the violence has meaning (that is, it isn't just running around shooting, but the violence comes from choices and determination of the characters).  Of course I wouldn't give this book series to a minor, middle school age reader, but a high schooler and above who enjoys Christian fiction will like this, I promise.<br /><br />If you'd like to read some nonfiction books dealing with prophecy here are a few you might like to consider:<br /><br />*Mark Hitchcock's 101 Answers to the Most asked about Questions about the End Time.  157673952X<br /><br />*Edward Hindson's The Book of Revelation.  0899578101<br /><br />*Keith Intrater & Dan Juster's Israel, the Church, and the Last Days.  076842187Xoy reading it, enjoy seeing the action and the suspense of what happens.  It is a book.  I am sure so many of you complain about how people fuss about the Harry Potter books, and you say \\"its just fiction\\" well so is this book, accept it at the very least as fiction and just enjoy the action and adventure (which I would say there is a lot of).  This is a good series, there isn't any sex, any cursing, and while there is violence, the violence has meaning (that is, it isn't just running around shooting, but the violence comes from choices and determination of the characters).  Of course I wouldn't give this book series to a minor, middle school age reader, but a high schooler and above who enjoys Christian fiction will like this, I promise. <br /> <br />If you'd like to read some nonfiction books dealing with prophecy here are a few you might like to consider: <br />*Mark Hitchcock's 101 Answers to the Most asked about Questions about the End Time.  157673952X <br />*Edward Hindson's The Book of Revelation.  0899578101 <br />*Keith Intrater & Dan Juster's Israel, the Church, and the Last Days.  076842187X	2005-06-04
US	36727219	R11CANN38MULUU	0736912142	262090195	Fast Facts on False Teachings	Books	2	11	26	N	N	Why am I giving this two stars?  For several reasons.	First and foremost, while there is \\"information\\" found within this book, the information is not in depth and insightful.  If you want in depth information on Christian apologetics in comparison to other faiths, especially Eastern, then I would suggest that you go to Ravi Zacharias' Jesus Among Other Gods.  Zacharias also has some wonderful books on Christian meeting the Atheists worldview.  If you wish to have more information on apologetics in comparison to evolution, go to Dismantling Evolution by Ralph Muncaster.  That book is a great source of fact by fact reasons why evolution is wrong and the science of creationism has a firm foundation.<br /><br />Now unto this book itself.  I will examine this book specifically on one of its chapters, that is the one about Satanism and Occultism.  The reason I am giving the two stars is due to some of the misinformation and misdirection this  book gives toward Satanism and Occultism.  That is, it follows the age old hype that such things as Smurfs and Dungeons & Dragons causes one to go into worshipping the devil.  As someone who is now out of the occult by the blessings of the Lord Jesus Christ, I can tell you quite honestly...neither caused me to be involved in the occult.  What causes one to be involved in the occult ... from Wicca to whatnot?  Well for one thing, the age old problem of churches having the problem of being welcoming to new people, to people who are questioning, to people who need friends and not \\"hammer you with the Love of Jesus\\" (said in the same voice as Oral Roberts).  Seeing as I grew up churches that were more interested in being a social club than a ministry caused me to go toward occultism.  Seeing the same people who pretended to being all Christian and open, but if you weren't up to the standards of their clicks, you were outcasted (from teens to adults).  That also pushed me into Wicca due to the fact that the people involved in Wicca, those I maintained a connection to during that time period of my life, were much more friendly.  Yes they were wrong, yes ultimately they are worshiping the devil, but when they are open and churches arent, well you will see where the young people and 20 something to 30 something adults go...and it isn't due to watching Smurfs as a child or playing Dungeons & Dragons as a teen or adult.<br /><br />This could also be said toward other false religions.  People are pushed away by how many churches have a \\"guilty until proven innocent\\" attitude toward salvation.  Not to mention the mega-churches that are growing across the country who have self help religious attitudes and \\"join the club\\" points of view ... both of which alienates honest searchers.  Many churches have a hard time when they are built around the air of already knowing who is who, and when strangers come, well, they are given the eyes of suspicion or they are being asked too many \\"holier than thou 20 questions\\".  Churches need to be open, toward all, and yes they can do this while maintaining a strict truth to the Bible.  As a Christian, now, I have tried to not do any of the actions that caused me myself to push away from the Church and ultimately from Christ at that time in my life.<br /><br />I remain a firm believer in the literal truth of the Bible, when dealing with those who are of other religions, but you must go beyond the information and slim picking of info that is seen in this book.  What I said about the chapter on Occult can be said in turn toward the other chapters.  It is of course good to know what that religion believes so that you can lead them from what their religion says to the ultimate truth of the Bible, but you can't have it going as a \\"good guys vs. bad guys\\" or a \\"I'm saved and youre going to hell unless you do as I say\\" kind of attitudes.  You must love others, you must be ready to minister, but...I would take people like Paul in Athens witnessing or a Stephen to the Jews witnessing style of attitude...love, firm Biblical knowledge, anda friendly ear to hear why the person is involved in what he or she is involved in.  That is how you can start to win souls, walk in their shoes, and show the truth of God out of love.edge, and a friendly ear to hear why the person is involved in what he or she is involved in.  That is how you can start to win souls, walk in their shoes, and show the truth of God out of love.	2005-05-26
US	36727219	R1RWULLR16JBZJ	0764584596	161456087	Dungeons & Dragons For Dummies	Books	1	18	90	N	N	A sad time for older  gamers	As an experienced gamer, one who has been playing and collecting roleplaying games for over twenty some odd years, it comes as a shock and a dismay that one of the most iconic games is now a Dummies guide...Dungeons & Dragons for Dummies.  Is such a book needed?  No.  Is such a book helpful.  No.  You can get all the same kinds of information in the beginner's box set and the three main core books...yes this is cheaper.  But really.  Do you want to be seen with this book on your game shelf?  I just dont see it listed along with the original white box set of D&D that I own, along with the first edition rules and supplements that I have, the second edition rules and supplements that I have, and the third edition rules and supplements that I have.  Still, as the saying goes, if there is a hole (real or imaginary as the case may be), then there is someone willing to fill that hole.  And obviously, someone has.  And due to that, I can feel myself cringe in horror and dismay.  D&D, once a proud exploration in choice and consequences and heroism and horror and honor and gold, now is a Dummies guide that just makes me want to give up gaming all together.  Why?  Well obviously games are now a cliche instead of a adventurous hobby and thought provoking examination.  What's next?  Vampires for Dummies?  GURPS for Dummies?  Warhammer for Dummies?  I would not recommend this book, you can find the same information elsewhere, it was only written for the money it would obviously make the authors and owners of the D&D franchise because some people obviously have to have anything that has \\"D&D\\" in the title...needed or not.<br /><br />If you truly want to get started in the fandom realm of fantasy roleplaying games, let me give you a few suggestions.  Instead of this \\"book\\" I would suggest starting with the box set, Dungeons & Dragons Basic Game (num 0786934093).  While this is a bit more expensive than the Dummies guide, you do get your money's worth--not only easy to learn from easy to play books but also some very well designed miniatures.  I would suggest that you practice with this box set and see if you enjoy the roleplaying experience.  If you do like it, and want to see what else there might be, go buy the module Sunless Citadel that you can also purchase from Amazon.  That module will flesh out both the fanciful village and the dark dungeons enough that any budding players and DM can get a grasp as to how the system works.  Then, and from there, I would suggest getting the basics...the 3.5 edition Player's Handbook, DM's Handbook, and the Monster Manual (just the first one, folks).  From there, get the modules that move onward from the Sunless Citadel.  These are inexpensive modules but they help you play and understand how experience moves along as it does in the D&D world.  I hope this information from me helps better than this Dummies Guide.ay books but also some very well designed miniatures.  I would suggest that you practice with this box set and see if you enjoy the roleplaying experience.  If you do like it, and want to see what else there might be, go buy the module Sunless Citadel that you can also purchase from Amazon.  That module will flesh out both the fanciful village and the dark dungeons enough that any budding players and DM can get a grasp as to how the system works.  Then, and from there, I would suggest getting the basics...the 3.5 edition Player's Handbook, DM's Handbook, and the Monster Manual (just the first one, folks).  From there, get the modules that move onward from the Sunless Citadel.  These are inexpensive modules but they help you play and understand how experience moves along as it does in the D&D world.  I hope this information from me helps better than this Dummies Guide.	2005-05-24
US	36727219	R5LV9C9I0CAUE	080240944X	551781182	The Vanishing Power of Death: Lessons from the Life of Jesus	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful, Biblical Exploration of Losing our Fear of Death	We as humans are naturally fearful of death.  We see it every day.  We see people dying due to crime, war, disease, and old age.  We see it in all its flashy colours on the television screen each night as the reporters give us their big, toothy smiles.  Deep inside we keep asking ourselves... what about us? when will we pass away? what will be after we die?  For those of us who are Christians, we ourselves get fearful of that final enemy that lurks in the shadows of our future...sooner or later.  Yet Mr. Lutzer reminds us that we should not fear, that if we hold unto the truths that are founded upon Biblical Truths, ie. the literal understanding of the Bible, we will then have no need to fear death.  As Paul says, where is Death's sting?  Why?  Because Jesus Christ conquered death on the cross and through the empty tomb.  Jesus conquered Death and Hades themselves by the power of God Himself, through Christ who is of God and is God, the I AM, and thus to those who trust in Christ and believe in Christ and place our faith in Christ, as Lutzer speaks of, we will not fear death because death is not the end, but through the love and grace and holiness of God, we who are Christians who believe in the literal truth of Christ will have eternity with our Lord and Savior and King.<br /><br />Still, we Christian humans keep forgetting to have an eternal point of view instead of a finite point of view.  This is easy to do because though we have been forgiven, we do sucumb to the devil's temptations to have fear in our hearts.  We shouldn't but sometimes all of us do.  We must then, even in our weakness, as Lutzer speaks of, place our faith fully on Christ.  Through Christ we will have a hand reaching to us, bringing us from the darkness of this sin stained world that even now groans for the final redemption of God at the end of days, and lifts us out of the darkness and into the light.	2005-05-19
US	36727219	R68QR6XNHB4VZ	0060674296	67748143	Resurrection: Myth or Reality?	Books	1	26	92	N	N	A sad, sad fellow this Spong is	You have two choices to believe in.  Two choices, simple, easy.  The choices depend on one variable, though, was there not or was there a resurrection of Jesus Christ.<br /><br />If there was no resurrection, then there is no eternal hope.  There is no eternal hope for the son who's father is dying of Alzheimer's disease.  There is no eternal hope for the mother who's son died in a war in a far off land.  There is no eternal hope for the woman who has just found out that she has breast cancer.  If there is no resurrection of Christ, then all that we have hoped for, all that we have tried to life for, all the good deeds, all the helping hands, all the care, the love, all of that matters not.  If there is no resurrection of Jesus Christ, then you might as well accept here and now, eat, drink, be merry, because tomorrow you will be dead, and the day after, you will be forgotten.  If you see that the tomb is not empty, and that Easter was not a physical AND spiritual event, then nothing matters.  All there is, in the end, is a cement tomb over your body...if you are that lucky.<br /><br />If there is a resurrection of Jesus Christ, then there is eternal hope.  That hope means that all our fears, all our worries, and all our concerns will be meet.  No matter what happens around us, there is an eternal perspective that we may...in this life...not understand...but because we can only see with finite eyes (that is, if you believe in the physical resurrection)...then hope DOES spring eternal.  What we see now is only a small, acute, point...that when we are given the eternal eyes... the eyes that we could only have IF and only IF there is a resurrection...will be dealt with.  All questions, all fears, all depression, all tears will be wiped away.<br /><br />You cannot, and I say this emphatically, you cannot be a Christian if you do not believe in the literal Resurrection of Jesus Christ.  You are only fooling yourself.  A Christian is only a Christian if they accept that the Bible speaks true to you and I when it says that Jesus Christ is the Son of God-born of virgin mother, worked through parables and miracles, died on the cross, and on the third day, rose again through the very power of God Himself.  You are only putting the wool over your eyes by having disbelief.<br /><br />Even more so, you are mocking and taunting God by saying to God, in effect, like Spong does, that God cannot resurrect the dead...especially if that dead One is His only Begotten Son.  You dare, you completely dare, to say that the Lord God might create the universe...if there is a God, and you seem to think that as there is no Jesus and Resurrection, then there is probably only a \\"minutely\\" possibility of there being a God...(there by proving you are not a Christian, you are an Atheist, a Fool, or just plain Blind by your own ego, your own pride, and the powers of darkness)..but this God who might create Galaxies, Black Holes, Tachyon particles, flowers, rainbows, the smiles on children's faces...still cannot resurrect His own Son?<br /><br />All of human history depends on whether the tomb is empty or not.  All those who have died for the faith...from Stephen and Paul to those who die in foreign lands trying to spread the good news...are meaningless and pointless and should only be laughed at.  I believe, though, that the tomb is empty.  I believe there is hope.  I believe there is reason, and that there is an eternal goodness that I will one day see when I fall asleep.  By knowing full well that there is a resurrection, by knowing that what the Bible says is true, I know that when I go into that good night, I wont be going into night, but a new day.<br /><br />So what is your choice?  To Believe? or Not to Believe?  That is the question.that the Bible speaks true to you and I when it says that Jesus Christ is the Son of God-born of virgin mother, worked through parables and miracles, died on the cross, and on the third day, rose again through the very power of God Himself.  You are only putting the wool over your eyes by having disbelief. <br /> <br />Even more so, you are mocking and taunting God by saying to God, in effect, like Spong does, that God cannot resurrect the dead...especially if that dead One is His only Begotten Son.  You dare, you completely dare, to say that the Lord God might create the universe...if there is a God, and you seem to think that as there is no Jesus and Resurrection, then there is probably only a \\"minutely\\" possibility of there being a God...(there by proving you are not a Christian, you are an Atheist, a Fool, or just plain Blind by your own ego, your own pride, and the powers of darkness)..but this God who might create Galaxies, Black Holes, Tachyon particles, flowers, rainbows, the smiles on children's faces...still cannot resurrect His own Son?   <br /> <br />All of human history depends on whether the tomb is empty or not.  All those who have died for the faith...from Stephen and Paul to those who die in foreign lands trying to spread the good news...are meaningless and pointless and should only be laughed at.  I believe, though, that the tomb is empty.  I believe there is hope.  I believe there is reason, and that there is an eternal goodness that I will one day see when I fall asleep.  By knowing full well that there is a resurrection, by knowing that what the Bible says is true, I know that when I go into that good night, I wont be going into night, but a new day. <br /> <br />So what is your choice?  To Believe? or Not to Believe?  That is the question.	2005-05-18
US	36727219	R3MPPSD4DW5OGN	0060578416	13003204	If God Is Love: Rediscovering Grace in an Ungracious World (Gulley, Philip)	Books	1	18	102	N	N	A Sad Misunderstanding of God's Truth	Before I begin I think we should see what God says about Heaven, Hell, and Grace...<br /><br />First and foremost what does God say about the human condition? human nature? \\"All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God...\\" Romans 3:23.  We are sinners, we are evil,  that is the truth of being human.  So what happens then?<br /><br />Secondly, what is the nature of God?  \\"Your eyes are too pure to look on evil; you cannot tolerate wrong...\\" Habakkuk 1:13.  That is, God is Holy and Pure and True and thus cannot have us in His presence because of our sinful nature, because of the evil that lurks at the bottom of our hearts and souls.<br /><br />Third, if we come to God in our present condition, sinful, He will say to us the following:  \\"Depart from me, you who are cursed, into the eteranl fire prepared for the devil and his angels...\\" Matthew 25:41 (thus the truth that there is a Hell).  He will also say the following:  \\"Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of Heaven, but only he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.  Many will say to me on that day, 'Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name drive out demons and perform many miracles?'  Then I will tell them plainly, 'I never knew you.  Away from me, you evildoers!'\\"<br /><br />So what can we do?  The only thing we can do to prevent us from an eternity without God, that is, coming to the Father through Jesus Christ and it can only be through Jesus Christ.  All other ways, other religions, other philosophies, etc, are lies found on the wide road that leads to destruction... remember \\"Enter through the narrow gate.  For wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many enter through it.  But small is the gate and narrow the road that leads to life, and only a few find it...\\" Matthew 7:13-14.  Remember, Jesus Himself, as He is God, the Great I AM, the Word of God, speaks of Himself and only Himself (and thus we can trust this) that through Him and only Him can we come to eternal life and hope and grace.<br /><br />If God is Love is the second book by these two authors.  At first you might think it is a nice, wonderful book, talking about how God is love and that God embraces everyone and everything.  But if you truly match this book with the truth, with the Bible itself, then you begin to see the holes in the foundation of this book. One of the greatest arguments that these authors try to maintain is that God's grace will envelope everyone and everybody...no matter what religion, no matter what action, no matter what deed...and that all will be brought to Heaven.  Again, nice thought, but if you are a true student of the Truth...found in the Bible and can only be built up into other books based from the literal truth of the Bible...you would realize that grace is wonderful, loving, amazing...but grace is on the condition that you realize that God provided the way for us to Him by Christ and Christ alone.  The following arguments debunk the \\"grace for all\\" attitude of these authors.<br /><br />1st: If Everyone is going to be saved, then God is not Holy: God cannot be Holy and bring everyone to Him if everyone is following their own ways and their own ideas and their own thoughts. For you see, only a Holy God can examine and define what is right and what is wrong in this world, in fact, in this universe.<br /><br />2nd: If Everyone is going to be saved, then God does not love like these authors try to maintain: If God was saving everyone, then He does not have love within His being, for such a God who would save all no matter what the people did, such a God has no love. That then is contrary to the truth and foundation that is in our Holy Scriptures and within what great thinkers such as Martin Luther and C. S. Lewis has taught.<br /><br />3rd: If Everyone is going to be saved, then Jesus Christ is a liar: Why would Jesus Christ be a liar, because in all four Gospels and through the Holy Spirit's interaction with writers such as Paul, God clearly defines that it is through Jesus and only through Jesus that one and all can be saved. By coming to Jesus and Him alone, we will find the true road to Heaven.<br /><br />4rd If Everyone is going to be saved, then the Cross was useless: Oh such writers as Philip Gulley speaks that the cross meant love, and that is true, but if everyone is going to be saved anyway, then the cross was not and is not important, or meaningful, or real.<br /><br />5th If Everyone is going to be saved, then Jesus would not have given the Great Commission: The Great Commission found at the end of the Gospels after the resurrection speaks of God's commanding desire that we as Christians spread the true word and good news of God through Christ throughout the world. If all religions, if all no matter what are to be saved and brought into God's heaven, then it doesn't really matter what you believe about Jesus and about God and about the Holy Spirit.<br /><br />6th If Everyone is going to be saved, then all the prophecies of the Old and New Testament are lies from God and the whole Bible in and of itself should just be thrown away: The prophecies of the Old and New Testament speaks that there will be a day that God shows it bright and clear that not only He is in control but that He sees the sins of the small to the great, the poor to the most wealthy.<br /><br />The situation is not how we hope God to be but how God reveals Himself to be...and the only way you can begin to truly understand how God reveals Himself to be is through the Holy Bible.  The Bible states that God is Love, yes.  The Bible states, though, that God is also Holy.  As God is Holy and Love, He expects us to come to Him through the road He has built ... that is, through the Cross and the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.  God gives us Grace, but He expects us to accept that Grace through Jesus Christ.  It isn't about what works we do.  It isn't about how nice we are.  What matters is that we have a relationship with God through Jesus.  If you do not have a relationship to the Father through Jesus, then you are not accepting God's grace...and if you are not accepting God's grace...then you are not healed of your sins, of the taint that exists at the heart of being human due to Original Sin of Adam and Eve all to where we are today.  Only through Jesus can we be cleansed of our sinful nature, thus that is the key of Grace.<br /><br />God allowing everyone into heaven is not grace because there is the very evil nature of humans that God would then not care about.  Those who do not have Jesus in their lives are like spiritual leapers...forever and eternally unclean.  God allowing us to be unclean and to come to His presence as this book insists whether we are Atheists, or Wiccans, or Child Molesters, means that God does not love us because God would not care about the evils we have done, about the anger, about the lusts, about the resentment, the pride and the arogance we revel in.  That means that God is not love, because only through love would He see what we need to better...and again, that way only comes as the Bible proves...through Jesus Christ.  Only through a relationship with Jesus, and letting Him bring you to be more like Him instead of us trying to draw Him down in idolary to our level (like these authors are doing), can we be healed of all that wounds our bodies and our souls.<br /><br />Thus the very nature of a god that is like the one worshiped and believed in by people such as Philip Gulley and James Mulholland is a very frightening nature. This god does not care what you do or how you do in this lifetime that you have been given. You can do whatever you want, whether it is for good or ill, because it does not matter. As such this god will treat you like \\"oh you are all loved by me\\" as these authors and many more like them say, but that is not true because this god really would not care a thing about you or what is right or wrong about your nature. Like I said, for this god, it does not matter. It is a meaningless consideration. Even more so, this god would not be holy, this god would just be there, like a person on your television screen, and just as two dimensional. This god cannot be holy because the very nature of holiness means that the god would see specifically measuring by himself what is good and what is bad. To this god, again, it does not mean a thing. Even more, the grace that this kind of god offers to one and all would be about as cheap as a man buying a wedding ring for his hopeful wife at a vending machine that charges 25 cents. In other words, the grace that this god that is said to be offered by the authors I have examined would be a hollow and pointless grace because it does not answer the questions of our hearts and the actions by us through life. This kind of grace is superficial and meaningless at the very least, at the very worst, it is a slap in the face toward all of us who have struggled in the race of life-those of us who have been raped, abused, those of us who have lost loved ones in school shootings and in robberies. This kind of grace the authors insist is the kind of grace that is really not grace at all, its just fluff from a pillow.nship to the Father through Jesus, then you are not accepting God's grace...and if you are not accepting God's grace...then you are not healed of your sins, of the taint that exists at the heart of being human due to Original Sin of Adam and Eve all to where we are today.  Only through Jesus can we be cleansed of our sinful nature, thus that is the key of Grace.      God allowing everyone into heaven is not grace because there is the very evil nature of humans that God would then not care about.  Those who do not have Jesus in their lives are like spiritual leapers...forever and eternally unclean.  God allowing us to be unclean and to come to His presence as this book insists whether we are Atheists, or Wiccans, or Child Molesters, means that God does not love us because God would not care about the evils we have done, about the anger, about the lusts, about the resentment, the pride and the arogance we revel in.  That means that God is not love, because only through love would He see what we need to better...and again, that way only comes as the Bible proves...through Jesus Christ.  Only through a relationship with Jesus, and letting Him bring you to be more like Him instead of us trying to draw Him down in idolary to our level (like these authors are doing), can we be healed of all that wounds our bodies and our souls.    Thus the very nature of a god that is like the one worshiped and believed in by people such as Philip Gulley and James Mulholland is a very frightening nature. This god does not care what you do or how you do in this lifetime that you have been given. You can do whatever you want, whether it is for good or ill, because it does not matter. As such this god will treat you like \\"oh you are all loved by me\\" as these authors and many more like them say, but that is not true because this god really would not care a thing about you or what is right or wrong about your nature. Like I said, for this god, it does not matter. It is a meaningless consideration. Even more so, this god would not be holy, this god would just be there, like a person on your television screen, and just as two dimensional. This god cannot be holy because the very nature of holiness means that the god would see specifically measuring by himself what is good and what is bad. To this god, again, it does not mean a thing. Even more, the grace that this kind of god offers to one and all would be about as cheap as a man buying a wedding ring for his hopeful wife at a vending machine that charges 25 cents. In other words, the grace that this god that is said to be offered by the authors I have examined would be a hollow and pointless grace because it does not answer the questions of our hearts and the actions by us through life. This kind of grace is superficial and meaningless at the very least, at the very worst, it is a slap in the face toward all of us who have struggled in the race of life-those of us who have been raped, abused, those of us who have lost loved ones in school shootings and in robberies. This kind of grace the authors insist is the kind of grace that is really not grace at all, its just fluff from a pillow.	2005-05-15
US	36727219	R3TEH9M3SWTI0L	0062517058	184327919	If Grace is True: Why God Will Save Every Person	Books	1	19	67	N	N	Why the Devil Tries to Destroy the Truth of Grace	One of the biggest misconceptions that are out there today is the belief that one and all will be saved.  That each person, no matter what the situation or condition, will find salvation and be brought unto the Lord (whatever Lord they themselves interact with even if they do not realize it even if they are atheists).  Is this really a concern?  Yes it is because the belief that one and all will be saved is a striking confrontation with the truth that is the Lord that is found in Scripture.  So do people really call themselves Christian and say this?  You bet.<br /><br />A book that you can find in most bookstores today is called If Grace is True.  This book wants and does try to show that all will be welcomed and find heaven, but they are extremely off base with the truth that is found in the Bible.  They say that God will give grace and love to anyone and everyone.  Here is a quote from the book that is written by Philip Gulley and James Mulholland.  These two men are leaders and workers within the Quaker community, however I will still consider them in the \\"Christian Community\\" in this case because of the implications and the ideas (while are false) being spread by them can be found in most denominations today.  This following quote shows not only their lack of understanding of the Bible, but also how they desecrate the very name and nature of the Lord God.  These writers say: \\"I believe God will save every person...I mean the whole world...I mean Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Jews, New Agers, pagans...atheists, agnostics, the apathetic...rapists, child molesters, and terrorists\\" (161).  Thus no matter who or what you are, no matter how evil or how selfish you are, and we all are because we are all sinners at heart, even if we do follow Jesus, or even if we don't, this god of theirs they say will save one and all.  Heaven is just one happy family that is basically lobotomised in the region of the moral compass.  Everything is good, everyone is good, and even the worst rapist and molesters will get a happy pat to the back, at least in this popular, postmodern, but ultimately unBiblical point of view spoken by those like Philip Gulley and James Mulholland.  For you see, by there being a specific grace, one must then accept there is a specific holiness within a God and thus this holy God has a omnipotent holy point of view toward right and wrong, good and evil, and from there, heaven and hell.<br /><br />Now this doesn't mean that I myself believe that no one can be saved.  But remember what Paul says in the Letters, especially the Letter to Rome.  We are all sinners.  We all fall short of the glory of God.  God, who is Love, yes, is also Holy and demands a holiness from His children too.  The Law given to Moses speaks on how sinful we are...we all lust...we all desire...we all get angry, get hateful...some worse than others...some murder, yes (such as abortionists, terrorists, etc.)...but when we ourselves say \\"I hate so-in-so\\" we also act in murder.  That is why we need Christ Jesus, and that is why only through the blood of the Cross and the resurrection and through Jesus and only through Jesus can we all be saved.  If Jesus is not in your life, then you are a footstep to hell.  This is not me making a \\"fire and brimstone\\" threat.  Read the Bible.  Study the Scriptures.  God demanded a perfect sacrifice to be made to bring us the wayward children back to Him...and we have to believe in Christ to come back to Him.<br /><br />Yes God does want to save each and every one of us, and in fact God did provide a way for everyone even the most wicked to be saved.  He wants not just you and I to be saved, but the children in Africa, the elderly in Russia, and the middle aged in Japan.  In fact He wants all to be saved so much that He Himself gave the way for all to be saved.  That way is Christ Jesus and Christ Jesus alone.  Jesus said to you and I the following in John 14:6: \\"...'I am the way, the truth, and the life.  No one comes tothe Father except through Me.'\\" That means that the only way to really know God, have a relationship with God, and be saved to be brought into the Loving presence of God, is through Jesus Christ and all that He did in human history.  Not Buddha, not Mohammad, not Nature, not Evolution, but Jesus and only Jesus.  Yet as these two gentleman explain, it doesn't matter who or what you are, you will be saved no matter what.  So many people might consider that to be a nice thought, but if it is, then we will find God to not be who He says He is.  In fact, if they were right, then the very nature of this reality would be far more disturbing than it is already due to the Fall and due to false worldviews.<br /><br />The following are several step by step reasons that not everyone will be saved.  These are based upon specific study and examination of the truth that is found in Scripture.  This does not mean that I think that Christians should be snub, instead I will show what this means-that not all will be saved.  You yourselves are welcome to study and to examine the burden of truth that is founded on the reality of the Bible.  You yourselves are welcome to see the reasons why I say such things and why I have so much faith in our Scriptures.  I hope that this book will help you to become not just a better Christian, but one that is eager to help spread the Gospel far and wide.<br /><br />1st: If Everyone is going to be saved, then God is not Holy: God cannot be Holy and bring everyone to Him if everyone is following their own ways and their own ideas and their own thoughts.  For you see, only a Holy God can examine and define what is right and what is wrong in this world, in fact, in this universe.  A god who would let anyone and anything do as they feel like it, no matter how much pain or suffering it causes, is a god that is lack, that is weak, that is as fleeting to the extend that life and all that there is in life would have not hope.  There would not be, if this was how god really was, a clear definition toward right and wrong and reward and punishment, heaven and hell.  If writers like Philip Gulley and James Mulholland were correct, then it doesn't matter that three thousand plus people died on September 11th.  If writers like these two were right, then man who rapes another woman can rape a thousand women because God is not holy and thus God does not care.  Yet luckily, God is Holy, that means that in the Bible He does define what is right and what is wrong not in our eyes but in His eyes, as seen in such passages like the Ten Commandments, sermons like the Beatitudes, and many of discussions Paul made in the letters. The Scripture reads the following from Isaiah 6:3: \\"And one cried to another and said: `Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts; The whole earth is full of His glory!'\\"<br /><br />2nd: If Everyone is going to be saved, then God does not love: If God was saving everyone, then He does not have love within His being, for such a God who would save all no matter what the people did, such a God has no love.  That then is contrary to the truth and foundation that is in our Holy Scriptures and within what great thinkers such as Martin Luther and C. S. Lewis has taught.  For you see a  god who would not care about the actions that you take in life, the roads that you choose, is not a god of love.  Such a god would not care about you being rapped, or molested, or beaten up, or killed by a car thief.  This kind of god would not notice the times that you tried your best, those times you worked hard and took the extra time to make things better for yourself and for those around you.  This kind of god that authors like Gulley and Mulholland does not care about what you do for that god's kingdom, if that god had a kingdom because such a god could not have a kingdom, only a orgy of conflicting realities to such an extent that if a god could get schizophrenia this god would.  However, God does love you, God loves you so much thatHe does know the good times and the bad times you face, and even more, this God, the true God that is explored in the Bible shows you that He is with you no matter what.  Even in your worst nightmares, God is with you to help you through so that you can see the true Grace and Salvation and Love that God has for you.  John 3:16: \\"...For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life.\\"<br /><br />3rd: If Everyone is going to be saved, then Jesus Christ is a liar: Why would Jesus Christ be a liar, because in all four Gospels and through the Holy Spirit's interaction with writers such as Paul God clearly defines that it is through Jesus and only through Jesus that one and all can be saved.  By coming to Jesus and Him alone, we will find the true road to Heaven.  Jesus says again and again He is the Way, He and only He; but if we listen to people who are like Gulley we are calling our Savior a liar.  Even more Jesus preached many sermons that showed that there are two roads in the spirit world, the road through Him to God and the road through the world to Hell.  This can be found in such parables as the one about Lazarus and the Rich Man.  This is not just a story to scare children, or us, this is a story that is spoken by God through Jesus about the fact and reality that there is indeed a heaven and there is indeed a hell.  Time and time again Jesus declared that there was indeed a place that is where people who do not know God and who are not saved will be weeping and gnashing their teeth in flaming pain.  For you see Jesus was not a liar in fact Jesus was, is, and always will be the Son of God.  As John 3:17 continues where the last Scripture reading left off: \\"For God did not send His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved.\\"  That is, through Jesus, and it is only through Jesus that the people of this world can be saved and brought into eternal life with God.<br /><br />4rd If Everyone is going to be saved, then the Cross was useless: Oh such writers as Philip Gulley speaks that the cross meant love, and that is true, but if everyone is going to be saved anyway, then the cross was not and is not important, or meaningful, or real.  In fact if we are to believe what these and other writers say, then we can just delete from the Old Testament the symbolism of the sacrifices which were to get the Jewish people ready for Jesus and then delete from the New Testament most of Gospels because throughout all the Gospels Jesus spoke that He must take on the cross because that is what His Father, our God, wants.  For you see, on the contrary to what these and many other theologians speak, the cross was indeed what it was meant to be.  On the cross, Jesus took the blunt of all the sins you and I and countless people across the ages have done.  We are told that we too will be bearing the Cross for Jesus and for our own selves. The cross is where we will meet and where we will find the true door to the eternal love of God. And it doesn't matter who, as long as it is through Jesus.  From the smallest lie to the greatest of evils like Hitler's Jewish Holocaust, God made His Son drink from the cup of our sins and His wrath because, again God, the real God, is a Holy God who does not like sin, in fact He loathes sin and its corrupting nature.  Jesus took on the Cross and Mankind's sins because it is to be through Him and Him alone that we are saved from sin's natural road to Hell and damnation.  The Bible says in Galatians 6:14 \\"But God forbid that I should boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.  For in Christ Jesus...a new creation.\\"  We are new creations through Jesus' sacrifice on the Cross, our old ways, those old tattered clothes we wore as sinners, are taken off of us and new clothes, the clothes of righteousness is put upon us.  TheCross makes each and every one of us a new creation if we accept Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.<br /><br />5th If Everyone is going to be saved, then Jesus would not have given the Great Commission: The Great Commission found at the end of the Gospels after the resurrection speaks of God's commanding desire that we as Christians spread the true word and good news of God through Christ throughout the world.  If all religions, if all no matter what are to be saved and brought into God's heaven, then it doesn't really matter what you believe about Jesus and about God and about the Holy Spirit.  You do not have to go out and spread the Gospel, you do not have to go out and help at homeless shelters in order to show God's love, you do not have to give money to missionaries to help bring the freedom of Christ to those who do not have Him.  The Great Commission is yet another lie as well as all that God through Jesus has said to the world.  Luckily, God through Jesus made it very clear to you and I who do know God through Jesus that we have a responsibility to do our best to make sure that Jesus' ability to free will be spread to whomever whenever the time (on God's time table) is right.  The Great Commission, as will be talked about as you read this book, is this, learn it live it.  Matthew 28:18-20: \\"And Jesus came and spoke to them saying, `All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth.  Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you; and lo, I am with you always even to the end of the age.'  Amen.\\"  You see?  God commands us out of love for us and for all people that we as Christians preach the good news of God as the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, so that all can be saved if they place their hearts and minds and souls into the hands of God through Christ Jesus.<br /><br />6th If Everyone is going to be saved, then all the prophecies of the Old and New Testament are lies from God: The prophecies of the Old and New Testament speaks that there will be a day that God shows it bright and clear that not only He is in control but that He sees the sins of the small to the great, the poor to the most wealthy.  Thus those who do not have Jesus will know, especially at the end of the ages, what will be called in the Book of Revelation the Great Tribulation.  Even Jesus' prophecies that He told His disciples and us who read the Gospels are false, are wasted, and should not be paid attention to.  Though I said I would not preach hellfire and brimstone I will tell you my brothers and sisters in the name of our Lord God and Savior that there will come a day that those who do not have Jesus in their lives, those who rebel against the Lord, and those who willingly persecute Christians and Jews and others will face judgment.  This judgment is one that is final and sure.  The judgment can be found in the Book of Revelation 20:11-15: \\"Then I saw a great white throne and Him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away.  And there was found no place for them.  And I saw the dead, small and great, standing before God, and books were opened.  And another book was opened, which is the Book of Life.  And the dead were judged according to their works, by the things which were written in the books.  The sea gave up the dead who were in it, and Death and Hades delivered up the dead who were in them.  And they were judged, each one according to his works.  Then Death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire.  This is the second death.  And anyone not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the lake of fire.\\"<br /><br />Thus the very nature of a god that is like the one worshiped and believed in by people such as Philip Gulley and James Mulholland is a very frightening nature.  This god does not care what you do or how you do in this lifetime that you have been given.  You can do whatever you want, whether it is for good or ill, because it does not matter.  As such this god will treat you like \\"oh you are all loved by me\\" as these authors and many more like them say, but that is not true because this god really would not care a thing about you or what is right or wrong about your nature.  Like I said, for this god, it does not matter.  It is a meaningless consideration.  Even more so, this god would not be holy, this god would just be there, like a person on your television screen, and just as two dimensional.  This god cannot be holy because the very nature of holiness means that the god would see specifically measuring by himself what is good and what is bad.  To this god, again, it does not mean a thing.  Even more, the grace that this kind of god offers to one and all would be about as cheap as a man buying a wedding ring for his hopeful wife at a vending machine that charges 25 cents.  In other words, the grace that this god that is said to be offered by the authors I have examined would be a hollow and pointless grace because it does not answer the questions of our hearts and the actions by us through life.  This kind of grace is superficial and meaningless at the very least, at the very worst, it is a slap in the face toward all of us who have struggled in the race of life-those of us who have been raped, abused, those of us who have lost loved ones in school shootings and in robberies.  This kind of grace the authors insist is the kind of grace that is really not grace at all, its just fluff from a pillow.<br /><br />This is not meant to scare you in the sense that I am trying to make one and all feel guilty while reading this book.  Instead I want this to warn you and inspire you to go out and make a difference in someone or someones life.  Bring them to Christ through loving witnessing.  I hope that this book will help you with that.  I want this book to help you on several levels.  I want it to tell you the truth, the Biblical truth that is God our Father and His Son Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit that inspires the Believers' Church.  I want this book to let you know what worldviews and world beliefs are out there that will try to challenge you and trip you up.  Lastly I want and hope and pray that this book praises God sufficiently.  I hope that this book will bring honor to my Lord God and Master Jesus Christ.<br /><br />What you need to understand is that God offers salvation to every single person in the world.  No matter what sex that person is, no matter what ethnic background that person is, God came into history as Jesus Christ so that all will be saved.  Yet the way to gain that grace and salvation is by recognizing that Jesus Christ is the Lord and Savior.  God does not accept any other worldview or world religion.  The way the only was is by Jesus.  So for those who do not know Jesus, two things come to mind from scripture.  First is, we have got to go out and bring Jesus' message to these people.  We have got to spread the Great Commission no matter where it needs to be brought to.  Secondly, God will judge all who have not received God through Jesus by the situation of their life and how well they follow the seed of God that is planted in everyone's heart. This judgment might seem harsh toward those who have not specifically known God through Christ Jesus but really it isn't.  For you see, the Scriptures say that God has planted Himself in the hearts of every man woman and child.  By our deeds we will be judged as to whether we have followed this seed that was planted in us.  This does not mean that none will be saved nor does it mean all will be saved.  Instead it means that our Holy and Just and Graceful God will judge those who does not know Him through Christ and weigh those people each separately and each specifically.<br /><br />This review was written because I know so many people want and wish that all can be saved.  Yet the Bible strictly says that this is not so.  Not all will be saved, only those who have been brought to the Lord through Jesus Christ.  So what does this mean about those people in the world who DON'T know Jesus?  Simple!  GO OUT AND FIND THEM.  Bring them to Christ, use love, use Biblical teachings, if you can't go, give money and prayers to those who can.  Make a difference.  Whatever money you give to a missionary could help bring one to many souls to Christ Jesus and thus to Salvation.  Bring the Gift of not only life but eternal life to those out there who are trapped in the worldviews of Buddhism, Wicca, Hinduism, and the New Age movement, along with those who are atheists, those who are rapists, those who are apathetic, and those who just don't understand.  Hold that candle high and let it shine, let the Holy Spirit truly minister to you and from you to those you encounter in your life.  Make a difference!hteousness is put upon us.  The Cross makes each and every one of us a new creation if we accept Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.  <br /> <br />5th If Everyone is going to be saved, then Jesus would not have given the Great Commission: The Great Commission found at the end of the Gospels after the resurrection speaks of God's commanding desire that we as Christians spread the true word and good news of God through Christ throughout the world.  If all religions, if all no matter what are to be saved and brought into God's heaven, then it doesn't really matter what you believe about Jesus and about God and about the Holy Spirit.  You do not have to go out and spread the Gospel, you do not have to go out and help at homeless shelters in order to show God's love, you do not have to give money to missionaries to help bring the freedom of Christ to those who do not have Him.  The Great Commission is yet another lie as well as all that God through Jesus has said to the world.  Luckily, God through Jesus made it very clear to you and I who do know God through Jesus that we have a responsibility to do our best to make sure that Jesus' ability to free will be spread to whomever whenever the time (on God's time table) is right.  The Great Commission, as will be talked about as you read this book, is this, learn it live it.  Matthew 28:18-20: \\"And Jesus came and spoke to them saying, `All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth.  Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you; and lo, I am with you always even to the end of the age.'  Amen.\\"  You see?  God commands us out of love for us and for all people that we as Christians preach the good news of God as the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, so that all can be saved if they place their hearts and minds and souls into the hands of God through Christ Jesus. <br /> <br/>6th If Everyone is going to be saved, then all the prophecies of the Old and New Testament are lies from God: The prophecies of the Old and New Testament speaks that there will be a day that God shows it bright and clear that not only He is in control but that He sees the sins of the small to the great, the poor to the most wealthy.  Thus those who do not have Jesus will know, especially at the end of the ages, what will be called in the Book of Revelation the Great Tribulation.  Even Jesus' prophecies that He told His disciples and us who read the Gospels are false, are wasted, and should not be paid attention to.  Though I said I would not preach hellfire and brimstone I will tell you my brothers and sisters in the name of our Lord God and Savior that there will come a day that those who do not have Jesus in their lives, those who rebel against the Lord, and those who willingly persecute Christians and Jews and others will face judgment.  This judgment is one that is final and sure.  The judgment can be found in the Book of Revelation 20:11-15: \\"Then I saw a great white throne and Him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away.  And there was found no place for them.  And I saw the dead, small and great, standing before God, and books were opened.  And another book was opened, which is the Book of Life.  And the dead were judged according to their works, by the things which were written in the books.  The sea gave up the dead who were in it, and Death and Hades delivered up the dead who were in them.  And they were judged, each one according to his works.  Then Death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire.  This is the second death.  And anyone not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the lake of fire.\\"   <br /> <br />Thus the very nature of a god that is like the one worshiped and believed in by people such as Philip Gulley and James Mulholland is a very frightening nature.  This god does not care what you do or how you do in this lifetime that you have been given.  You can do whatever you want, whether it is for good or ill, because it does not matter.  As such this god will treat you like \\"oh you are all loved by me\\" as these authors and many more like them say, but that is not true because this god really would not care a thing about you or what is right or wrong about your nature.  Like I said, for this god, it does not matter.  It is a meaningless consideration.  Even more so, this god would not be holy, this god would just be there, like a person on your television screen, and just as two dimensional.  This god cannot be holy because the very nature of holiness means that the god would see specifically measuring by himself what is good and what is bad.  To this god, again, it does not mean a thing.  Even more, the grace that this kind of god offers to one and all would be about as cheap as a man buying a wedding ring for his hopeful wife at a vending machine that charges 25 cents.  In other words, the grace that this god that is said to be offered by the authors I have examined would be a hollow and pointless grace because it does not answer the questions of our hearts and the actions by us through life.  This kind of grace is superficial and meaningless at the very least, at the very worst, it is a slap in the face toward all of us who have struggled in the race of life-those of us who have been raped, abused, those of us who have lost loved ones in school shootings and in robberies.  This kind of grace the authors insist is the kind of grace that is really not grace at all, its just fluff from a pillow.   <br /> <br />This is not meant to scare you in the sense that I am trying to make one and all feel guilty while reading this book.  Instead I want this to warn you and inspire you to go out and make a difference in someone or someones life.  Bring them to Christ through loving witnessing.  I hope that this book will help you with that.  I want this book to help you on several levels.  I want it to tell you the truth, the Biblical truth that is God our Father and His Son Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit that inspires the Believers' Church.  I want this book to let you know what worldviews and world beliefs are out there that will try to challenge you and trip you up.  Lastly I want and hope and pray that this book praises God sufficiently.  I hope that this book will bring honor to my Lord God and Master Jesus Christ.   <br /> <br />What you need to understand is that God offers salvation to every single person in the world.  No matter what sex that person is, no matter what ethnic background that person is, God came into history as Jesus Christ so that all will be saved.  Yet the way to gain that grace and salvation is by recognizing that Jesus Christ is the Lord and Savior.  God does not accept any other worldview or world religion.  The way the only was is by Jesus.  So for those who do not know Jesus, two things come to mind from scripture.  First is, we have got to go out and bring Jesus' message to these people.  We have got to spread the Great Commission no matter where it needs to be brought to.  Secondly, God will judge all who have not received God through Jesus by the situation of their life and how well they follow the seed of God that is planted in everyone's heart. This judgment might seem harsh toward those who have not specifically known God through Christ Jesus but really it isn't.  For you see, the Scriptures say that God has planted Himself in the hearts of every man woman and child.  By our deeds we will be judged as to whether we have followed this seed that was planted in us.  This does not mean that none will be saved nor does it mean all will be saved.  Instead it means that our Holy and Just and Graceful God will judge those who does not know Him through Christ and weigh those people each separately and each specifically.   <br /> <br />This review was written because I know so many people want and wish that all can be saved.  Yet the Bible strictly says that this is not so.  Not all will be saved, only those who have been brought to the Lord through Jesus Christ.  So what does this mean about those people in the world who DON'T know Jesus?  Simple!  GO OUT AND FIND THEM.  Bring them to Christ, use love, use Biblical teachings, if you can't go, give money and prayers to those who can.  Make a difference.  Whatever money you give to a missionary could help bring one to many souls to Christ Jesus and thus to Salvation.  Bring the Gift of not only life but eternal life to those out there who are trapped in the worldviews of Buddhism, Wicca, Hinduism, and the New Age movement, along with those who are atheists, those who are rapists, those who are apathetic, and those who just don't understand.  Hold that candle high and let it shine, let the Holy Spirit truly minister to you and from you to those you encounter in your life.  Make a difference!	2005-05-15
US	36727219	RIB46K4C8IDO0	006067539X	129713446	Here I Stand: My Struggle for a Christianity of Integrity, Love, and Equality	Books	1	18	63	N	N	The dangers of living a Humanitist Christian "life"	One of the leading men who is well into the apostasy of falsifying and corrupting the truth of Christianity is a man named John Shelby Spong.  Christians who will stand faithful to the Lord through His Son Jesus Christ need to know about him and people like him because even if you do not ever read one of his books, you will come across people who have been blinded by his corrupted and degraded Christian beliefs.  John Shelby Spong has several books out there today.  Some of the titles are as follow: Here I Stand:  My Struggle for a Christianity Integrity, Love, and Equality; A New Christianity for a New World; Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism.  These are just a few, there are many more.  What is ironic is that while he has tried, in his own words, to bring integrity, love, and equality back to Christianity, he really has destroyed the foundations and fundamental truths that are found within the holy Scriptures.  Even more so, by destroying the very skeleton of the Bible and Christian reality, he has distorted so many Christians who now follow him that they truly are in a limbo of his leading and making.  I will discuss several of what he calls his Twelve Theses now with the truth of the Bible and information outside of the Bible.<br /><br />From his Twelve Theses, here are explanations for you so that you will know how in turn to be able to get through the muck that has brought down the integrity of Christianity and has placed it into the view of just another \\"feel good without truly thinking\\" point of views.  To be able to fulfill what is called the Great Commission, you will need and be able to meet in mental and spiritual combat those like Spong who wish to distort anything and everything that is Holy and True about our Lord God and Savior Jesus Christ.  The Twelve Theses is Spongs attempt to be like a New Age Episcopal (no big surprise that he was a bishop within this denomination) Martin Luther.  You can find a full copy of this distortion in his biography, Here I Stand.<br /><br />Creation/Evolution: Spong has the following to say (453): \\"The biblical story of the perfect and finished creation from which human beings fell into sin is pre-Darwinian mythology and post-Darwinian nonsense.\\"  The truth of God however is far above Darwin and in fact, the truth of evolution is probably one of the greatest fairy tales of the 19th through 21st century.  There are many holes and straying strands that exist within what is grouped together as evolution.  Not even scientists who believe, or people like Spong, can't get the right idea of what evolution is.  On the other hand, the Bible's view of the truth of creationism contains a lot of evidence to support this view.  There are a multitude of books that are out there published by intelligent and thought provoking creationist scientists.  DNA, biology, and physiology again and again when brought together support the Biblical ideas.  What is so dangerous is that many people, even those who may be reading this book on apologetics, cannot know the truth because the evolutionsists like Spong within the church and people like the fairly popular Stephen Jay Gould outside Christianity seems to be the popular view that is taught as religion in our school systems and now in our churches.  Instead I would suggest to you to read books like How Now Shall I Live? by Charles Colson and Nancy Pearcey, The Long War Against God by Dr. Henry Morris, and The Face by Hank Hanegraaff.  I would have to go into a book in and of itself about the truth of creationism but I think I have made my point countering Spong.  Charles Colson and Nancy Pearcey have this to say about the debate and how it affects who you are in your Christian walk with God (55): The Christian worldview begins with the Creation, with a deliberate act by a personal Being who existed from all eternity.  This personal dimension is crucial for understanding Creation.  Before bringing the world into existence, the Creator made a choice,a decision: He set out a plan, an intelligent design.<br /><br />Virgin Birth: Spong has the following to say (453): \\"The virgin birth, understood as literal biology, makes the divinity of Christ, as traditionally understood impossible.\\"  Biblical foundations of the virgin birth came from the Old Testament prophet Isaiah within two main segments of the book of Isaiah.  These points are found in Isaiah 7:14 and Isaiah 9:6a.  What Spong has to say is another fallacy that has corrupted so many people who have come to the church to find the truth of God. Christianity is founded on the proofs of the Bible.  Spong says that it is biologically impossible yet how can that be for with the God who created the univesre, is something as simple as this so difficult?  For Spong, in his narrow view of God's truth, the answer is a sad yes.  While you and I can't have a physiological evidence placed in our hand, we can respect the reality of how Christ Jesus, to be who He said He is and how prophecy has spoken true about Him, then we must accept the virgin birth.  We cannot pick and choose what we can and cannot believe in the Bible.  The Bible is true, it is supported by much information.  Even more so, we must accept how the prophecies of the virgin birth have brought about the truth of Christ Jesus.  We cannot say the prophets are liars because in the Jewish sense, if a prophet is wrong about one point, then not only is he a false prophet, then he also will die because Jewish laws show that prophets must be 100% true.  The following is found within the wonderful work by Josh McDowell called The New Evidence that Demands a Verdict, he has this to say (295): The evidence strongly suggests that the birth narratives in Matthew and Luke are built on the firsthand testimony of Jesus' own family members, which further support the conclusion that Jesus' conception and birth were indeed the fulfillment of Isaiah's ancient prophecy.  As Matthew wrote: \\"Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet , saying: `Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and bear a Son, and they shall call His name Immanuel,' which is translated `God with us.'\\" (Matthew 1:22, 23).<br /><br />Cross:  Spong has the following to say (453): \\"The view of the cross as the sacrifice for the sins of the world is a barbarian idea based on primitive concepts of God that must be dismissed.\\"  Such a heresy is horrific to believe but there are many, many people out there who not only disbelieve in the crucifixion but not understanding the reasons why there was the crucifixion.  The cross is the foundation of the Bible, yes, and even more, the cross and the crucifixion is the primary truth of God's love and want for our human race to be saved.  Spong does not, along with the others who believe with Spong, understand the truth that is our Lord and Savior's reason for the Cross.  Jesus could have called a thousand, thousand angels to come down to protect Him from the cross but God knew that His Son had to go through the cross in order for you and I to be truly saved from our sins.  We are a sinful race, we are not able to save ourselves, and thus God was the only one who could save us.  The only way to save us was to face what we faced, thus He had to come into this world, into our human history, as Jesus Christ, as the Son, and bear upon His own shoulders not just the salvation of the world but also the judgment the final judgment upon the affront that sin is toward Him.  J. Vernon McGee has this to say about the truth of the cross (144): \\"It was a transaction between the Father in heaven and the Son on the cross.  The cross became an altar upon which the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world, was offered.\\"  Without the cross and the honest reasons behind the cross, that is to save us from our sins, again we cannot truly know and have faith and be in relationship with our Lord God.  It is a shame that yes again, Spong creates afalse reality that has subjugated so many who come to Christianity for salvation and safety.<br /><br />Resurrection:  Spong has the following to say (454): \\"Resurrection is an action of God, who raised Jesus into the meaning of God.  It therefore cannot be a physical resurrection occurring, inside human history.\\" Yet again truth that is founded on the reliability of Scripture has escaped Mr. Spong simply because he, yet again, wishes to nitpick what he wants to believe and what he doesn't want to believe based upon a faulty ground of his \\"reasoning\\" powers.  We must accept the truth within scripture and outside of scripture toward the reliability of the resurrection.  There are several reasons for this.  Archeologists and historians have come together over the ages to show that the Bible's scriptures hold truth in what they say, that they can be honored and they can be relied upon with all intent and purpose in one's walk with Christ.<br /><br />There were hundreds upon hundreds of eye witnesses that saw and had specific contact with the risen Lord and Savior.  If this was not true, then evidence would have outweighed even the most arrogant supporter for Jesus being back alive.  Yet many a times Jesus was seen, encountered, and talked with by not just the disciples such as Matthew and Mark and John and Peter, but also many others who were firm believers in the Lord yet had no real speaking or political power.  Even after His resurrection, there is ample and true historical evidence that there were those who indeed saw Him and witnessed Him in His resurrected body.  Right after the resurrection the disciples saw him, then others outside the circle of main believers.  Remember the Bible read the following from the Book of Acts 1:2-3:<br /><br />  ...until the day in which He was taken up, after He through the Holy Spirit had given commandments to the apostles whom He had chosen, to whom He also presented Himself alive after His suffering by many infallible proofs, being seen by them during forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God.<br /><br />Then in 1st Corinthians 15:5-8, Paul says the following quote:<br /><br />...and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.  Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers and sisters at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have died.  Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.  Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me.<br /><br />As these quotes show, you must understand that the writers of the Gospels specifically speak of instances where they themselves as the disciples had a personal contact with the Lord and Savior who rose back to life.  There was of course the instance where Thomas, later Doubting Thomas, touched Jesus before the eyes of other.  Then there was also the time where in the early morning Jesus ate and broke bread with Peter and John and the others on the beach.  The first Letter to Corinthians, furthermore, shows that several hundred people had witnessed Jesus after the resurrection.  If any of these instances were not true, then there would have been mounting evidence that would have wiped out even the flicker of believers at this time in history.  As the letter of Paul was written in probably a decade or two after the resurrection, if there was no truth behind Jesus' resurrection, Christianity would have been snuffed out like what someone would do to a candle.  Such evidence seems to elapse from Spong and his followers.  History not only supports the fact that Jesus rose from the grave, it even bows down to its truth.<br /><br />This is just some of the truths that counter weigh the false beliefs of Spong and others like him.  To be a Christian, to fully be raptured by the truth and wonder and hope and joy that is our Lord God and Savior, you must realize that the Bible speaks the truth, that its wisdom is not man made wisdom but God made and that its reliability is found on the solidground that is where our Lord God stands upon.  As Christians, as believers, I hope and pray that this confrontation to Spong's ideas helps you realize what kind of cancer is biting at the heels of our Church.  If you are an unbeliever, I hope and pray that my evidence has helped at least spark a fire of thought and desire to know more within your heart and soul.  I pray as I write this that God opens your eyes and opens your heart to His eternal truth and love and holiness.pong creates a false reality that has subjugated so many who come to Christianity for salvation and safety.   <br /> <br />Resurrection:  Spong has the following to say (454): \\"Resurrection is an action of God, who raised Jesus into the meaning of God.  It therefore cannot be a physical resurrection occurring, inside human history.\\" Yet again truth that is founded on the reliability of Scripture has escaped Mr. Spong simply because he, yet again, wishes to nitpick what he wants to believe and what he doesn't want to believe based upon a faulty ground of his \\"reasoning\\" powers.  We must accept the truth within scripture and outside of scripture toward the reliability of the resurrection.  There are several reasons for this.  Archeologists and historians have come together over the ages to show that the Bible's scriptures hold truth in what they say, that they can be honored and they can be relied upon with all intent and purpose in one's walk with Christ. <br /> <br />There were hundreds upon hundreds of eye witnesses that saw and had specific contact with the risen Lord and Savior.  If this was not true, then evidence would have outweighed even the most arrogant supporter for Jesus being back alive.  Yet many a times Jesus was seen, encountered, and talked with by not just the disciples such as Matthew and Mark and John and Peter, but also many others who were firm believers in the Lord yet had no real speaking or political power.  Even after His resurrection, there is ample and true historical evidence that there were those who indeed saw Him and witnessed Him in His resurrected body.  Right after the resurrection the disciples saw him, then others outside the circle of main believers.  Remember the Bible read the following from the Book of Acts 1:2-3: <br />  ...until the day in which He was taken up, after He through the Holy Spirit had given commandments to the apostles whom He had chosen, to whom He also presented Himself alive after His suffering by many infallible proofs, being seen by them during forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God.   <br /> <br />Then in 1st Corinthians 15:5-8, Paul says the following quote: <br />...and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.  Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers and sisters at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have died.  Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.  Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me.   <br /> <br />As these quotes show, you must understand that the writers of the Gospels specifically speak of instances where they themselves as the disciples had a personal contact with the Lord and Savior who rose back to life.  There was of course the instance where Thomas, later Doubting Thomas, touched Jesus before the eyes of other.  Then there was also the time where in the early morning Jesus ate and broke bread with Peter and John and the others on the beach.  The first Letter to Corinthians, furthermore, shows that several hundred people had witnessed Jesus after the resurrection.  If any of these instances were not true, then there would have been mounting evidence that would have wiped out even the flicker of believers at this time in history.  As the letter of Paul was written in probably a decade or two after the resurrection, if there was no truth behind Jesus' resurrection, Christianity would have been snuffed out like what someone would do to a candle.  Such evidence seems to elapse from Spong and his followers.  History not only supports the fact that Jesus rose from the grave, it even bows down to its truth.   <br /> <br />This is just some of the truths that counter weigh the false beliefs of Spong and others like him.  To be a Christian, to fully be raptured by the truth and wonder and hope and joy that is our Lord God and Savior, you must realize that the Bible speaks the truth, that its wisdom is not man made wisdom but God made and that its reliabilityis found on the solid ground that is where our Lord God stands upon.  As Christians, as believers, I hope and pray that this confrontation to Spong's ideas helps you realize what kind of cancer is biting at the heels of our Church.  If you are an unbeliever, I hope and pray that my evidence has helped at least spark a fire of thought and desire to know more within your heart and soul.  I pray as I write this that God opens your eyes and opens your heart to His eternal truth and love and holiness.	2005-05-15
US	36727219	RQMIAOR3S7A9E	0060556056	666975028	The Garden	Books	1	6	27	N	N	Yet another Politically Correct book for the kiddies	This book saddens me.  Doesn't make me angry.  The book is just sad in its total endeavor.  The only reason why it was allowed to be placed upon bookshelves is because, in this \\"tolerant\\" day and age, anything that attacks conservative Jews and Christians alike and their held beliefs is to be praised and honored.<br /><br />First and foremost the book is an insult to any traditional Christian or conservative Jew.  It takes the beginning, which is believed in by both groups, I being a Christian myself, and degrades and turns it up side down...an insult to a beginning that is held and cherished by conservative Christians and Jews.  The root of this book is plain bigotry.  She doesn't understand the Biblical construct of what happens in Genesis.  She reads it through the eyes of one who hates the Judeo-Christian literal beliefs.  The book of Genesis answers important questions, serious questions, that this book seems to spit upon:  Where did we come from, what is our relationship to God (before and after the fall), why is there evil in the world.  This book flips the truth upside down in its \\"postmodern new age\\" ideologies that make God the enemy and Satan the Promethius savior.<br /><br />Secondly, as mentioned by another, this book is bad theology.  It turns Satan into a hero (Satan did this not out of freeing the human race, as Aidinoff so sorely believes, but out of a spiritual warfare attack to God).  Satan, the Snake, is not some tragic hero, some tragic Prometheus.  He is evil, evil incarnate, but again as in this day and age anything that is against conservative Judeo-Christian beliefs and values are to be tolerated and praised.  It misinterprets the Fall (the fall is placed specifically upon Adam in both OT and NT if Ms Aidinoff actually read the Bible, not on Eve).  Adam is the reason sin is in our souls, in our blood, and Adam is the reason God sent Jesus...the Son of God...to do what He did, as we are empirically told, in the Gospels.  God places blame on Adam, as Aidinoff would see if she actually read the Bible itself.<br /><br />Yet I wish to tell parents out there that they should allow their son or daughter to read this book.  I would also like to say that parents and teens who read this book should go to the truth, to the Bible, and see how postmodernism discredits the truth for its own sake and desire.  Why?  Because parents need to show their teen just what the world is offering and to know just how underhanded the liberal, postmodern, humanistic, believers are in how they are trying to incorporate a Brave New World into the minds of our children by trying to destroy the Bible.off would see if she actually read the Bible itself.      Yet I wish to tell parents out there that they should allow their son or daughter to read this book.  I would also like to say that parents and teens who read this book should go to the truth, to the Bible, and see how postmodernism discredits the truth for its own sake and desire.  Why?  Because parents need to show their teen just what the world is offering and to know just how underhanded the liberal, postmodern, humanistic, believers are in how they are trying to incorporate a Brave New World into the minds of our children by trying to destroy the Bible.	2005-05-13
US	36727219	R14XC2EHEZUWIL	0553584502	303170656	The Taking	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Is the book too intelligent for some of you?	I find it appalling that so many people are hacking this book because of a \\"religious\\" or \\"Bible\\" message. Is it so evil that a writer might have a few religious ideas? I am sure that those of you who are bashing this book because it has \\"religious\\" messages would be praising the book if it worked to your own ideas. If this book, say, had a Wiccan overtone (such as the book Priestess of Avalon) it would be praised for its respect toward the Wiccan goddess. If this book, say, had a New Age p.o.v. such as Celestine Prophecy the book would be hailed as an achievement of religious wisdom. Or if this book held a Buddhist, Shinto, Voodoo, Humanist, Atheist, p.o.v. it would be championed and toward those who would be saying they dont like the book because of said p.o.v.(as you are saying because you dont like Christianity)would be called narrowminded and intolerant.  But, alas, no the book is growled at fussed at snickered at because it might have been written in a Christian consideration. And we all know, anything Christian is evil, because Christians are evil, so says the liberal media, the liberal religious institutions, the groups such as NOW, ACLU, etc.<br /><br />Now for the book itself, I found enjoyable...but not just because I am a Christian. I find that there are too many hard core end of the world books, I enjoy something more subtle than say a thousand plus pages of Left Behind, The Stand, or Swan's Song. The book begins with hints and allegations, muses and warnings. You feel cut off from the rest of the world within the first chapter. He does a wonderful job exploring \\"what could\\" be out there. Elliot who is a charming poet complements the prose as well.  The experiences between Molly and the animals helps to create a sense of wonder that then balances with the dread of the unnameable evil that is lurking out there, somewhere, somewhere close by.  The main characters, Molly and her husband, are not cliche \\"perfect\\" people...they have their strengths, their weaknesses, their fears, and their hopes... these characters have backgrounds, have pitfalls, have aims...and both Molly and Neil handle themselves well even in the most fearful of times in the novel...and it is from this that you the read fall into wanting to see what happens next to the characters.<br /><br />Now do I like this book because it fits into my own ideas as a Christian...such as I mused over those of you who are bashing it because it has a \\"religious\\" overtone...no not necessarily.  Even if I wasn't a firm believer in Christ, I would have to say I'd still like this book because Koontz does have a wonderful way of telling a story.  Koontz isn't perfect when it comes to writing, but he is not a hack job like some writers out there.  Further, yes while there are several cliches in the book...such as \\"save the children\\"... \\"knowing animals\\"... \\"evil father who is a psycho\\" ... but at least these cliches work in the overall structure of the story.<br /><br />In the end, you are not expecting to read anything overly deep and complex, just a fine horror novel to satisfy you when you are on a work break or have some time off in the afternoon.  I would give this book a thumbs up.weaknesses, their fears, and their hopes... these characters have backgrounds, have pitfalls, have aims...and both Molly and Neil handle themselves well even in the most fearful of times in the novel...and it is from this that you the read fall into wanting to see what happens next to the characters.   <br /> <br />Now do I like this book because it fits into my own ideas as a Christian...such as I mused over those of you who are bashing it because it has a \\"religious\\" overtone...no not necessarily.  Even if I wasn't a firm believer in Christ, I would have to say I'd still like this book because Koontz does have a wonderful way of telling a story.  Koontz isn't perfect when it comes to writing, but he is not a hack job like some writers out there.  Further, yes while there are several cliches in the book...such as \\"save the children\\"... \\"knowing animals\\"... \\"evil father who is a psycho\\" ... but at least these cliches work in the overall structure of the story.   <br /> <br />In the end, you are not expecting to read anything overly deep and complex, just a fine horror novel to satisfy you when you are on a work break or have some time off in the afternoon.  I would give this book a thumbs up.   <br />	2005-05-05
US	36727219	R282K8K3OPUGG6	0768422795	831992373	Hour of the Witch	Books	1	22	44	N	N	I have to say no to it	First off let me explain that I am coming to you, by way of this review, as someone who had been caught up in the practice of Wicca/Witchcraft...only to be saved by Christ.  Glad to be saved by Christ.  Still, for several years both in Florida and in the Carolinas I was involved, deeply and utterly, in the Craft as it is called at times.  Wicca is dangerous because it seems so innocent at first...for example, say the environmental movement ideology behind much of Wicca is noble, sure; another example, say the pro-women/pro-female is also noble and enlightening, again, yes; another example, its version of loving one's neighbor (i.e. harm none) is commendable, again, yes.  But deeper into the practice, when you involve yourself with Spirit Guides, with rituals like calling down the moon, with summoning such \\"seemingly honorable entities\\" as the Horned Man, the Green Man, the Triple Goddess (Maiden, Mother, Crone), you begin...and I say this as a Christian who now looks back at my practicing Wicca/the Craft...yourself into involving yourself with demons from the very lies of Satan Himself (ironically, the Wiccan doesn't believe in a devil, though does believe in a dark side to nature).  As C S Lewis says to the effect, you power the Satan by either giving him too much credit or not any credit at all.<br /><br />Now, about this book, yes there are some very important parts to this book, but really, its just tagging along with all the Harry Potter novelties.  This author has already had his say with the Left Behind books, so what's next?  Next thing you know you'll see him talking about oh say  Dan Brown and his trash books.  Looking deeper, this book by Wohlberg does not offer you anything new that a half a dozen other Christian responses to Harry Potter books haven't already said themselves.  This author has only 1/4 of anything new to offer the worthy student of Christian responses to other religions/ideologies.  I won't lie and say otherwise, but I have been playing Dungeons & Dragons most of my life.  It isn't children's books that bring people young and old into Wicca/Witchcraft...it isn't role playing games that bring young and old into Wicca/Witchcraft...what brings people into such a belief system?  Easy.  Its accessability.<br /><br />Think of it this way.  How often are you yourselves open to visitors to your church or Sunday school?  How many times do you look at a particular person who might be a member of your church, whom youve heard gossip about, and  thus you prejudge the person?  I know I've not always been perfect but what drew me into Wicca was accessability, their openness in inviting me to share in their culture.  Games and fantasy novels aren't what get people into practicing this dangerous religion.  Or any of the other multitudes of religions out there in this postmodern day and age.  For me, it was being pushed away and judged by the churches I tried hard to be a part of, and then finding the Wiccans to be open to me.<br /><br />I am just glad that God brought me through all the bad experiences that I had with church and brought me to the Cross where I found true acceptance, love, care, holiness, and reason.  So if you, my dear reader, wish to make sure your friends and your family aren't brought into Wicca or any other man made religion, remember to love the sinner and not the sin.  You can be tolerant without being overtly politically correct.  You can be loving, while still making a stand for what is right and what is wrong.  You can listen without judge.  You can love without superficial conditions.  Let your church be acceptable and open to others in your community while remaining under the wings of truth of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.g Dungeons & Dragons most of my life.  It isn't children's books that bring people young and old into Wicca/Witchcraft...it isn't role playing games that bring young and old into Wicca/Witchcraft...what brings people into such a belief system?  Easy.  Its accessability. <br /> <br />Think of it this way.  How often are you yourselves open to visitors to your church or Sunday school?  How many times do you look at a particular person who might be a member of your church, whom youve heard gossip about, and  thus you prejudge the person?  I know I've not always been perfect but what drew me into Wicca was accessability, their openness in inviting me to share in their culture.  Games and fantasy novels aren't what get people into practicing this dangerous religion.  Or any of the other multitudes of religions out there in this postmodern day and age.  For me, it was being pushed away and judged by the churches I tried hard to be a part of, and then finding the Wiccans to be open to me.   <br /> <br />I am just glad that God brought me through all the bad experiences that I had with church and brought me to the Cross where I found true acceptance, love, care, holiness, and reason.  So if you, my dear reader, wish to make sure your friends and your family aren't brought into Wicca or any other man made religion, remember to love the sinner and not the sin.  You can be tolerant without being overtly politically correct.  You can be loving, while still making a stand for what is right and what is wrong.  You can listen without judge.  You can love without superficial conditions.  Let your church be acceptable and open to others in your community while remaining under the wings of truth of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.	2005-04-23
US	36727219	R3HOPMOLXX3C7F	0345428455	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A quick opinion	I have to admit, I'm not the biggest fan of Salvatore.  It isn't his fault per say, I've just never been one for his writing style.  When I read books, tends to either be Christian nonfiction or fiction.  When I want to relax, I read one of John Norman's Gor novels or a Doctor Who novel.  That's just me.  But looking at a lot of the hateful responses to this book, Vector Prime, I just dont think it is admirable.  Yes I know, a character beloved is killed in this first book...but please, give the New Jedi Order a chance.  Even more so, respect R. A. Salvatore and not fuss at him about what was decided by the higher ups, it wasn't as if Salvatore had a dart board and threw a dart to see who he kills off.<br /><br />The story arc is epic in its proportion.  The characters, all of 'em, are challenged to the brink.  No one is left untouched, unscarred, and unchanged.  It is an awesome product of talent. This is not just a mere space opera, this is a true exploration into the very nature of the SW universe...not just good vs. evil, but psychological warfare.  Almost reminds me of the Crusades in history, the Christians vs. the Muslims...but in a galactic level (no insult to either religion of course).	2005-04-19
US	36727219	R3L3SPFEUF5DB5	0060762055	657125991	The Sins of Scripture: Exposing the Bible's Texts of Hate to Reveal the God of Love	Books	1	16	129	N	N	Another sad example of liberal Christianity	\\"'Listen!  A farmer went out to plant some seed.  As he scattered it across his field, some seed fell on a footpath, and the birds came and ate it.  Other seed fell on shallow soil with underlying rock.  The plant sprang up quickly, but it soon wilted beneath the hot sun and died because the roots had no nourishment in the shallow soil.  Other seed fell among thorns that shot up and choked out the tender blades so that it produced no grain.  Still other seed fell on fertile soil and produced a crop that was thirty, sixty, and even a hundred times as much as had been planted.'  Then Jesus said.  'Anyone who is willing to hear should listen and understand.'\\"  Mark 4:3-9.  Clearly this book, like all other of Spong's books, can best be described as being words and teachings that are not the seeds that fall on fertile soil.  Anyone who would listen and who would allow themselves to agree with Spong's total teachings will find themselves in total darkness even if they dont realize that they are in total darkness.  Spong is a cancer upon the Christian church in this day and age, he and those like him (such as Borg and Gulley) would only be welcome in a church like that of Laodicea, a church community that is poor in spirit and understanding while rich in pride and arrogance and demonic power at its very worse.<br /><br />Yes I am a Biblical literalist.  This is not from me growing up in the church, being indoctrinated in every single key word, and never studying another view point.  I myself have had a long road to where I am today, a Christian who is going into Seminary in hopes of bringing God's Truth found in the Bible to those near and far.  Yet before this choice, before this decision, I have studied and practiced Buddhism, Shintoism, Wicca, and studied several other philosophies and ideologies.  And, in the end, I came back to the Bible...to God...like the prodigal son that I was...chasing the world's world instead of embracing God's world.  I thank God for the gift of salvation.<br /><br />Now, unto Spong.  Spong has made it a career to go against any and all true teachings of the Bible.  He believes in compromising Biblical truths just so that he can have the thumbs up by all the naysayers and liberal,  postmodern  \\"anything goes\\" thinkers.  I myself was a student of Spong for a bit before I came back to the truth of the Bible.  I have read his arguments, I have heard his beliefs, and I now stand firm in saying that he is wrong...not because I say he is wrong...but because the Spirit of Truth, the Spirit of God, who shows Himself to us through the truths of Scripture...from Genesis to Revelations...says he is wrong.  He is wrong in his compromising toward homosexuality.  He is wrong in denying the virgin birth, the miracles, the death on the cross, and the resurrection.  He is wrong to say that the Bible cannot be taken literally.  In the end, he is wrong and this will cause his downfall.  For Christ will say to those like him, \\"I know you not, get away from me\\" as Jesus says so in the Gospels.<br /><br />There are no Hate texts in the Bible.  The Bible teaches Love through God's holiness.  This means that there are consequences toward ours sin.  Yes the Bible tells us that we are to stand up against sin, but to do so in the manner of loving the sinner but condemning the sin.  The Bible does not go out and slander one and all.  Yes, as I just said, the Bible does stand up against sin...but that is done out of God's holiness.  Sin, whether homosexuality, gambling, adultery, theft, all creates a barrier between us and God.  God doesn't want us to hate those who sin these ways, of course, because we ourselves are sinners.  The only difference is that we freely see our sinful nature caused by Adam's original sin and our own same choice to follow sin in our lives.  Instead, God calls for us to call the sinners our brothers and sisters.  To call out to the sinners the truth of God's love and His desire for them...just like His desire for us...to turn away from sin...to stop compromising ...to stop blindsiding...and to return to the Father.  For God is God and we are man.<br /><br />To Spong, I hope you read this reminder toward you and yours alike.  It is from the 2 letter of Peter, chapter 2:1: \\"But there were also false prophets among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you.  They will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the sovereign Lord who bought them--bringing swift destruction on themselves.\\"  Such teachers as Spong will bring destruction upon themselves.  They will be brought to trail before the most holy and righteous God for their false teachings, for their false beliefs, and for their snakish tongue lies spoken to the peoples.  Also Mr. Spong, remember what is found in Matthew 7:21-23:  \\"Not all people who sound religious are really godly. They may refer to me as `Lord,' but they still won't enter the Kingdom of Heaven. The decisive issue is whether they obey my Father in heaven. On judgment day many will tell me, `Lord, Lord, we prophesied in your name and cast out demons in your name and performed many miracles in your name.' But I will reply, `I never knew you. Go away; the things you did were unauthorized.'\\"<br /><br />The very fact that the majority of those who have read this review and given me a negative review proves my point that so many in this day and age has gone away from the truth...the whole truth of the revelation and word of God Himself...and built upon their lives their own god (not the true God, but what they want of their own god, a politically correct god at best). In these days and ages of apostasy, those who say they are believers are nothing more than lost souls lying to themselves because they are afraid to accept that the Bible itself is the literal revelation of God.  the Bible must be taken as literal truth that comes in four points--literal history with the Virgin Birth), literal ministry (as with<br />what God says about Heaven and Hell), literal analogy (as with the gouging out the eye), and literal symbols (as with the Mark of the Beast being the symbol of man's choice to go against God in the end of days).<br /><br />Literal History. The Bible can be trusted as examined through historiography and archeology, as literal history of God's involvement with mankind. Scripture is not mere thoughts and considerations toward God, no, Scripture is the actual historical involvement of God with His Creation. The Flood is historically accurate. God's involvement with Abraham, Isaac, and Moses, to name a few, is historically accurate. The  judgments toward Israel can be trusted as historically accurate. Even the life, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ can be trusted as historically accurate. The Acts of the Apostles can be trusted as being archeologically and historically accurate. If you spiritualize one thing instead of accepting it as historically correct, such as Creation, then the whole Bible falls to pieces, and if the whole Bible falls to pieces so too does the idea of Jesus Christ and God and the Holy Spirit. We know of Jesus and about Jesus and the \\"why\\" of Jesus first and foremost through a literal understanding of the history behind God's involvement in mankind. If we discard the prophecies of Jesus in the OT (both prophecies of the first and second coming), if we spiritualize the virgin birth, or the cross and the resurrection (as historical events) and what God as Jesus says about these actions by Him, then Jesus is worthless.<br /><br />Literal Ministry. If we take and believe and trust that Scripture can be understood as literal history of God's involvement with mankind, then too can we trust that the ministry of God through the prophets and through Jesus Christ He who is Himself God and through the apostles as being literal ministries. These ministries include the historical account of God's involvement with the rearing of the important figures of the Bible, such as Abraham and David and Job. These ministries also include the judgment upon Israel many a times in the OT, as seen through the historically correct activities of prophets like Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Amos, and Malachi. For the New Testament, we can trust that the Gospels that have been intrusted in the Bible, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, can be trusted as the literal ministries of Jesus Christ upon the earth and all that Jesus warns of and all that Jesus speaks of and all that Jesus declares of-not in the sense of writing down each and every word of God and every deed of God (for even John says in his Gospel that that would fill a book that spans the world), but bringing from that historical point in time to the believers who weren't there, the important messages and prophecies and proverbs to those whom the Gospels were first written to, and then through the ages, to us. For example, Matthew's Gospel's goal in ministry is to bring Jesus as indeed the Savior promised in OT. Then Mark's message, as I am sure you might be aware of, is to the Roman reader. Luke's Gospel's ministry is to the educated reader. John's Gospel's ministry is to the yearning reader.<br /><br />Literal Analogy/Stories. God speaks to us through Scripture in stories and in proverbs, this is so that we can get a bird's eye view toward what God wishes for us to understand. An example is the very real story of Lazarus and the Rich Man. These two might not have been \\"actual\\" people, but, the message toward salvation and toward damnation is very clear. One is brought to Abraham's bosom and the other is sent to hell. This speaks of how we can often worship our treasures here on the earth and forget about our treasures in eternity that we receive through Christ Jesus and Christ Jesus alone. You have two choices in life, choices that determine your eternal existence...a choice to either follow the road to God or to follow the road to damnation.  Remember Jesus Himself says wide is the road to ruin and narrow is the road to salvation. He didn't say, \\"well there are many roads, some are wide and some are narrow\\", He says there are only two-one to heaven and one to hell. If you believe that this story spoken of by Jesus Christ isn't as He/God declares it to be, then you are picking and choosing, and you might as well then throw the entire Bible out the window because by believing only what you want to believe you are not gaining the insight and the revelation God has for you. Other stories are those like the Prodigal son, this may or may not be a historical event (only God knows that) but it shows just how grace is willing...if you are willing to accept your brokenness and your sinfulness to God...how He will bring you back to life. For example the mentioned gouging out your eyeballs speaks not of you and I going around poking our eyes out. Instead, the analogy is that it would be better for us to be blind than to give into our lusts and our desires, and act as Satan acts, by giving into our pride and our arrogance, because those such sins lead us to Hell if we do not follow the path God has given us to be righteous.<br /><br />Literal Symbolism. This can be seen as, say, for example, with Jesus saying faith is like a mustard seed. It isn't saying that faith IS a mustard seed, it is saying that faith grows like a mustard seed, as long as the growing is through the ministry of God Himself and not the world around us. We find further symbols as literal importance as with God revealing the statue to Daniel. This statue was a very real symbol of the kingdoms on earth and how Jesus will, at the end times, tear them down and bring about a kingdom forevermore. There are many other symbols in the Bible, such as calling Jesus the Lamb of God.  This does not mean that Jesus actually transforms into a literal lamb, but instead Jesus can be found and be symbolized by the nature of the sacrificial lamb as found in the OT days.  Jesus is the perfect sacrifice becauseunlike us He is of God, the Second Adam, the Son of God, perfect and holy in all ways, and thus can be sacrificed for our own sinful ways...and by that, bringing salvation to the world through His blood.  This is, thus, an example of literal symbolism.<br /><br />By disagreeing with me, and thereby disagreeing with the total truth and revelation of the Bible (and thereby agreeing with Spong and Borg and their like) shows just how lost the church is in this day and age.  By agreeing with Spong and Borg and people like the Jesus Seminar, this proves Jesus' revelation to the church of Laodicea, a church that is blinded by its own \\"wealth\\" (i.e. its egotism and pride in this case) and if all of you do not come back to the truth of Jesus Christ and His revelations and His Truth, Way, and Life, then you will be swallowed by the very fires of hell by your own choosing. You can disagree with me all you want and you can say Spong holds the truth toward \\"scripture\\" (i.e. his own views of Scripture, not God's revelation Scriptures that we have in the Bible); but it really isn't me you are disagreeing with, you are disagreeing with the Scriptures.  Thereby disagreeing with a literal truth found in Scripture, that shows just how little many in the church of this day and age understand God's message of salvation and damnation to the world, salvation through Christ Jesus and damnation without Christ Jesus.  You are not worshiping the truth when you bow down to people like Spong and Marcus Borg and Gulley (see my reviews of his works), you are worshiping the very spirit of death and darkness because you are following in your own pride's explanation of Scriptures instead of God's explanation of Scriptures.  Thus the very fact that a majority of you agree with Spong and disagree with what I say...which is really what Scriptures literally say...shows how far you've fallen from the truth of God...not in my opinion but in Scripture's truth...and Scripture IS the revelation of the Lord God to humanity.<br /><br />If the Bible is spiritualize and nitpicked by people like Spong and Marcus Borg and Gulley, saying this is true and this is \\"spiritualized but isn't literal\\" then the whole Bible and all that we know of God's revelation to all of us because worthless. If we cannot trust the Bible as a literal-historically, in ministry, in analogies, and in symbols-then there is no true way to know God's desire for us because we end up just swimming in the sea of \\"good people who says we are all good and let's all group hug and hold hands\\" as the before mentioned people want of us to believe. I dare say and would be willing to die in my firm trust in God through how He reveals Himself to us in the Bible. The Bible shows us the foundation built upon God's message to us all. We can either believe in that foundation, by accepting the Bible, or we can be like Gulley and think we can build our own foundation to God (hence saying we can build our own tower of Babel to God), which will, in the end, only turn to dust.  Again this is not worshiping the Bible as God, this is trusting with an empirical eagerness that the word of God speaks of the Word's revelation of God.so include the judgment upon Israel many a times in the OT, as seen through the historically correct activities of prophets like Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Amos, and Malachi. For the New Testament, we can trust that the Gospels that have been intrusted in the Bible, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, can be trusted as the literal ministries of Jesus Christ upon the earth and all that Jesus warns of and all that Jesus speaks of and all that Jesus declares of-not in the sense of writing down each and every word of God and every deed of God (for even John says in his Gospel that that would fill a book that spans the world), but bringing from that historical point in time to the believers who weren't there, the important messages and prophecies and proverbs to those whom the Gospels were first written to, and then through the ages, to us. For example, Matthew's Gospel's goal in ministry is to bring Jesus as indeed the Savior promised in OT. Then Mark's message, as I am sure you might be aware of, is to the Roman reader. Luke's Gospel's ministry is to the educated reader. John's Gospel's ministry is to the yearning reader.    Literal Analogy/Stories. God speaks to us through Scripture in stories and in proverbs, this is so that we can get a bird's eye view toward what God wishes for us to understand. An example is the very real story of Lazarus and the Rich Man. These two might not have been \\"actual\\" people, but, the message toward salvation and toward damnation is very clear. One is brought to Abraham's bosom and the other is sent to hell. This speaks of how we can often worship our treasures here on the earth and forget about our treasures in eternity that we receive through Christ Jesus and Christ Jesus alone. You have two choices in life, choices that determine your eternal existence...a choice to either follow the road to God or to follow the road to damnation.  Remember Jesus Himself says wide is the road to ruin and narrow is the road to salvation. He didn't say, \\"wellthere are many roads, some are wide and some are narrow\\", He says there are only two-one to heaven and one to hell. If you believe that this story spoken of by Jesus Christ isn't as He/God declares it to be, then you are picking and choosing, and you might as well then throw the entire Bible out the window because by believing only what you want to believe you are not gaining the insight and the revelation God has for you. Other stories are those like the Prodigal son, this may or may not be a historical event (only God knows that) but it shows just how grace is willing...if you are willing to accept your brokenness and your sinfulness to God...how He will bring you back to life. For example the mentioned gouging out your eyeballs speaks not of you and I going around poking our eyes out. Instead, the analogy is that it would be better for us to be blind than to give into our lusts and our desires, and act as Satan acts, by giving into our pride and our arrogance, because those such sins lead us to Hell if we do not follow the path God has given us to be righteous.    Literal Symbolism. This can be seen as, say, for example, with Jesus saying faith is like a mustard seed. It isn't saying that faith IS a mustard seed, it is saying that faith grows like a mustard seed, as long as the growing is through the ministry of God Himself and not the world around us. We find further symbols as literal importance as with God revealing the statue to Daniel. This statue was a very real symbol of the kingdoms on earth and how Jesus will, at the end times, tear them down and bring about a kingdom forevermore. There are many other symbols in the Bible, such as calling Jesus the Lamb of God.  This does not mean that Jesus actually transforms into a literal lamb, but instead Jesus can be found and be symbolized by the nature of the sacrificial lamb as found in the OT days.  Jesus is the perfect sacrifice because unlike us He is of God, the Second Adam, the Son of God, perfect and holyin all ways, and thus can be sacrificed for our own sinful ways...and by that, bringing salvation to the world through His blood.  This is, thus, an example of literal symbolism.    By disagreeing with me, and thereby disagreeing with the total truth and revelation of the Bible (and thereby agreeing with Spong and Borg and their like) shows just how lost the church is in this day and age.  By agreeing with Spong and Borg and people like the Jesus Seminar, this proves Jesus' revelation to the church of Laodicea, a church that is blinded by its own \\"wealth\\" (i.e. its egotism and pride in this case) and if all of you do not come back to the truth of Jesus Christ and His revelations and His Truth, Way, and Life, then you will be swallowed by the very fires of hell by your own choosing. You can disagree with me all you want and you can say Spong holds the truth toward \\"scripture\\" (i.e. his own views of Scripture, not God's revelation Scriptures that we have in the Bible); but it really isn't me you are disagreeing with, you are disagreeing with the Scriptures.  Thereby disagreeing with a literal truth found in Scripture, that shows just how little many in the church of this day and age understand God's message of salvation and damnation to the world, salvation through Christ Jesus and damnation without Christ Jesus.  You are not worshiping the truth when you bow down to people like Spong and Marcus Borg and Gulley (see my reviews of his works), you are worshiping the very spirit of death and darkness because you are following in your own pride's explanation of Scriptures instead of God's explanation of Scriptures.  Thus the very fact that a majority of you agree with Spong and disagree with what I say...which is really what Scriptures literally say...shows how far you've fallen from the truth of God...not in my opinion but in Scripture's truth...and Scripture IS the revelation of the Lord God to humanity.       If the Bible is spiritualize and nitpicked by people like Spong and Marcus Borg and Gulley, saying this is true and this is \\"spiritualized but isn't literal\\" then the whole Bible and all that we know of God's revelation to all of us because worthless. If we cannot trust the Bible as a literal-historically, in ministry, in analogies, and in symbols-then there is no true way to know God's desire for us because we end up just swimming in the sea of \\"good people who says we are all good and let's all group hug and hold hands\\" as the before mentioned people want of us to believe. I dare say and would be willing to die in my firm trust in God through how He reveals Himself to us in the Bible. The Bible shows us the foundation built upon God's message to us all. We can either believe in that foundation, by accepting the Bible, or we can be like Gulley and think we can build our own foundation to God (hence saying we can build our own tower of Babel to God), which will, in the end, only turn to dust.  Again this is not worshiping the Bible as God, this is trusting with an empirical eagerness that the word of God speaks of the Word's revelation of God.	2005-04-19
US	36727219	R10RM22JP1IAWX	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	1	9	104	N	N	At the end of faith there will be an end of hope	The book is much like any other humanistic/atheistic tract.  The writer of this book attacks those who hold to faith, especially those who are following in the race a Judeo-Christian worldview. Why does this book and books like it attack Christians especially?  Because Faith is bad, especially Judeo-Christian faith.  Religion is evil, especially Judeo-Christian religion.  \\"All\\" religions are evil, \\"All\\" religions serve no purpose.  The book says that through reason and through \\"intelligence\\" we will find that we are ourselves at the center of the universe.  The belief is simple, the belief is that man is the center of the universe and what man wants man deserves to get or to do or to have.  The god of atheism is right in the mirror, oneself.  The god of atheism is right there before your very eyes.  The End of Faith and books like it are like tornados, trying desperately to destroy anything and everything before them.  Why?  Why are writers and believers such as the author of this book so keen on thinking they can destroy faith?  Fear.  Fear that they themselves will be challenged and then judged for the actions done by them throughout life.  We are our own destiny, we are our own champions through evolution such believers as the writer and the supporter of this book and books like it.  These are ideologies I've heard a thousand times and probably hear a thousand more.<br /><br />Yes.  In the name of religions many an evil has occurred.  Many so called Christians have gone out and attacked and hurt and killed those whom they strove to control.  I will not deny that.  But. Such believers did not act in the true belief of what God speaks of in His revelation to us all, the Bible.  For example there are those so-called Christians who have attacked, abused, and brought into submission women by saying that it was Eve's fault for sin.  Well, that is a lie, to an extent.  If one truly read the Bible, they would see that God says that it is Adam that has brought the Curse upon mankind and the earth.  It is the Adamic Curse that causes evil and turmoil and death in the world.  Thus the reason Christ came, to hold victory over the sins so that whomsoever has faith in Christ Jesus will not die and be in eternal separation from God, no, instead one who holds faith will have eternal life in the name of Christ.  In the name of religion there have been those who have been cheated, beaten, enslaved, and killed.  As a historian and a theologian, I do not deny this.  I do not hide from this fact.  I say unto this that those who did those things may have \\"said\\" they were of a particular religion, but they were not tenants of that religion (Christianity) because they would not have done those deeds if they were truly of that religion (Christianity).  Even more so...In the true name of religion, and as a Christian, and in the name of Christ, much good HAS occurred in the cause of human history and human destiny.  The women's movement was founded on Christian beliefs.  The child protection movement was founded on Christian beliefs.  Education in America was founded on Christian beliefs.  The fight against slavery and the fight for equality was founded on Christian beliefs.<br /><br />Still.  The End of Faith?  What would be the product?  If faith was outlawed, if faith was forced to end, then what would be the outcome?  Simply this.  The end of faith would be an end to hope.  There would be no hope for war weary societies because war doesn't matter.  Why doesn't it matter?  Because at the end of faith there is no good no evil just \\"species selection\\" and \\"social darwinism\\".  The end of faith would mean there is no hope for those who have been wounded deeply--those who have been rapped, those who have had to see loved ones die of diseases, those who have been abused as a wife or as a child, those who have been tattered and torn.  Without faith, there is no hope.  Without faith, there is no tomorrow.  Without faith, there is no reason to live.  Why should we live if there is no faith for that greater something, that greater force, that God...that personal God...especially the Christian God who sent His Son to die for us and rise up for us.  No faith means no hope, no joy, no laughter.  No faith means no desire for something greater, desire for something purer, desire for something precious.<br /><br />Again, then, what is faith?  You say there is a need for an end of faith, well then what is your definition of faith?  I trust my definition of faith to the Bible (that book that you hate so much).  In the Letter to Hebrews, faith is keenly defined as the following.  \\"Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see.\\"  Hebrews 11:1.  You are right, I suppose, I cannot possibly snap my fingers and low and behold, God appears.  You ask for proofs, and you are given proofs of God's truth in the Bible in archeology, history, theology, and lives changed for the better by following a literalist truth found in the Bible.  Still, you could have God appear right before you indeed, and you would still not believe because you allow your pride, your arrogance, your darkness and your death and your hopelessness to blind you because you want all of those to blind you.  Of course God says passionately to you, in the Psalms 14, \\"The fool says in his heart, 'There is no God.'\\"<br /><br />Yes I have faith, I have faith in the race that I am racing and the destination I am heading for.  I know inherently and intimately that there is indeed a God.  I have opened my eyes, allowing God to speak to my mind, my heart, my soul, and I see how God has changed my life.  You call religion a crutch, but you yourself in your atheism walks along with a crutch because you are so fearful of the fact that \\"if there is a God\\" then you yourselves will be judged for the wickedness you have done in your lives.  I have seen the lives of those who are aiming toward the Lord change for the better, and I have seen those lives that are lead by the pride of disbelief changed for the worse.  I have seen those who lived by faith in Christ have peace even in the worst of situation, and I have seen those who live by their own egotism (atheism) have no peace no matter what simply because they stumble in the darkness of their own making and their own choosing.  I do not care for scoffers and for unbelievers views toward me, but I will stand not by my own power but by the love and grace and holiness of the Lord through this life I live... not even afraid of death itself...I listen keenly to the promise of the Lord \\"I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace.  In this world you will have trouble.  But take heart!  I have overcome the world.\\" John 16:33.<br /><br />I would not be surprised if it happens in my own life time, that Christians are rounded up and sent to concentration camps because of books like this and other books that are so phobic and hate filled against Christians.  In this humanistic day an age, where antagonism is found in our liberal government, our liberal \\"religious\\" movements\\", our liberal school and college systems, Christianity...as in this book...is labeled and vilified more and more.  Still I believe that there can't be an end to faith because I believe I do have faith and will continue to have faith in the one true God.  The God who sent Jesus to die for my sins, to rise again.  I have this faith because I realize there is something greater in this universe then merely myself.  I will not follow into the egotistical trappings of humanism and atheism.  Instead, with my faith, I will strive to win that race.  I will not deny hope for mmyself or for those I meet along the way in this life.  With this faith I will strive to help those who need it...from homeless shelters to missions across the globe to my very own home church and the people in the church I belong to.  With this faith that I will not allow to end, I will do my best to help as many people and to teach as many people about Christ as possibly.  I do this not out of humanistic egotism that wants to make myself feel good and look good (as when humanistic followers say they try to help society), but instead I do this out of the love of Christ that is given to me and I give to others freely out of my own free will.  Faith will not end because the one true God will never end.sbelief changed for the worse.  I have seen those who lived by faith in Christ have peace even in the worst of situation, and I have seen those who live by their own egotism (atheism) have no peace no matter what simply because they stumble in the darkness of their own making and their own choosing.  I do not care for scoffers and for unbelievers views toward me, but I will stand not by my own power but by the love and grace and holiness of the Lord through this life I live... not even afraid of death itself...I listen keenly to the promise of the Lord \\"I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace.  In this world you will have trouble.  But take heart!  I have overcome the world.\\" John 16:33.    I would not be surprised if it happens in my own life time, that Christians are rounded up and sent to concentration camps because of books like this and other books that are so phobic and hate filled against Christians.  In this humanistic day an age, where antagonism is found in our liberal government, our liberal \\"religious\\" movements\\", our liberal school and college systems, Christianity...as in this book...is labeled and vilified more and more.  Still I believe that there can't be an end to faith because I believe I do have faith and will continue to have faith in the one true God.  The God who sent Jesus to die for my sins, to rise again.  I have this faith because I realize there is something greater in this universe then merely myself.  I will not follow into the egotistical trappings of humanism and atheism.  Instead, with my faith, I will strive to win that race.  I will not deny hope for mmyself or for those I meet along the way in this life.  With this faith I will strive to help those who need it...from homeless shelters to missions across the globe to my very own home church and the people in the church I belong to.  With this faith that I will not allow to end, I will do my best to help as many people and to teach as many people about Christas possibly.  I do this not out of humanistic egotism that wants to make myself feel good and look good (as when humanistic followers say they try to help society), but instead I do this out of the love of Christ that is given to me and I give to others freely out of my own free will.  Faith will not end because the one true God will never end.	2005-04-13
US	36727219	R2NDKI5OHHUMGX	188636009X	110804752	What the Bible Really Says about Homosexuality	Books	1	56	187	N	N	Why I disagree	I would have to disagree with the pronouncements the book has to make.  I feel very strongly that the Bible does say much about homosexuality, in the concept of sin.  Thus I myself take a literalistic point of view of the Bible.  I believe the Bible is exactly as it says it is, the word of God, the message of God, to a fallen race--us.  The author, on the other hand,  takes a postmodern, very liberal view toward what the Bible speaks of and what the Bible preaches.  By maintaining a postmodern ideology toward the Bible, the author...as many other post modernists...have stripped away the Bible for what it truly means as God's message to the world.  In this case, the author has stripped away the truth toward homosexuality as viewed of by the Bible.  What do I mean?  Let me explain.<br /><br />The Bible speaks of sin--those deeds that first manifest upon the soul, then formulates in the mind/body, and then done physically.  Within our souls is a cancer, a cancer that is born from our sinfulness in a sinful world.  It is because of this seed of sin that Christ came into the world through virgin mother as the prophets foretold, died on the cross as the prophets foretold, and rose again on the third day as the prophets foretold.  Sin is then \\"thought of\\" in the mind and body.  It is the whisper to do evil in our brains, the easier choice in comparison to the right choice, the lust, the desire, to want that burns in our minds and our hearts.  Then, when it is done, it is done through physical manifestation.  In this case, homosexual acts and actions.<br /><br />Thus homosexuality is an act born of spiritual sinfulness and acted upon out of physical sinfulness.  However, and this is an important realization that is to be known from the Bible, homosexuality is just one of many sins that tempt and bring us to fall.  This, again, is a difference of opinion between myself and the author of this book.  I do not think that homosexuality is any worse than say gambling, or any better than say abortion.  All sins bring forth a wall between us and God, all sins must be forgiven by the blood of Christ so that we will be cleansed.  For you see, all sins are the same before the eyes of God, because they mare our souls and flesh, however, each sins has their own consequence.  And this is an important understanding toward the homosexual issue.  Homosexuality is just one of many sins and all sins are the same before the eyes of a Holy God, but its consequences are different than say adultery or stealing.  But know well that you and I are sinners too.  Our sinfulness might be different than the homosexuals, but we are still sinners that need the grace of God.  Our sinfulness, too, will have different consequences than the homosexuals, but still we are called to love the sinner (just as God loves us) but hate the sin.<br /><br />This means that homosexuals should not be treated badly.  This means that homosexuals should be given our friendship.  This means that homosexuals can be loved through the love of friendship and through the love that neighbors are to have as the Bible speaks of.  What do I mean?  Well we are all sinners, and we all need Christ's grace.  If you are a homosexual, why should I judge you because of that homosexuality (as long as deeds such as pedophilea aren't done or other illegal actions).  I have known many a gay in my life and time, but I do not judge them, just as I do not judge those women I know who have had abortions.  Yes I strongly take a Biblical POV, and they know this, but I do not and will not treat any less because that would be a wicked deed.  You can agree to disagree about an action done, in this case homosexuality, without having malice or hatred toward the one who is washed in that sin.  You can give friendship to the homosexual while still maintaining a Biblical belief...the only thing that is called to you is that if he or she wishes to know your belief, you act with fearlessness in speaking the Gospel, the truth., the truth.	2005-04-10
US	36727219	R3U69ON7PN40R9	1576737519	57843073	Pro-Life Answers to Pro-Choice Arguments Expanded & Updated	Books	5	8	14	N	N	An important guide to help fight the good fight	One of the biggest problems, with the prolife movement/ prochoice movement debate is how the prochoice movement has demonized the idea of prolife.  The prochoice movement calls those of us who consider life sacred to be \\"antichoicers\\" or \\"men against women's reproductive rights\\".  First we are not antichoicers, we realize there is a choice, a simple choice, let live or let die.  Secondly, the biggest point that needs to be made is that it isn't about \\"men vs. women\\" it is about \\"life vs. death\\".  Yes, I believe there is a choice...you choose to let a child into life or you murder a child.  That's the bottom line.  That's the final point.  Let live or let die...it is your choice.  Still, take a step back for a moment and look at the makeup of those who call themselves prolife.  There are, despite what the prochoice movement says, as many women who are for prolife as there are for prochoice.  These prolife women are bright, witty, schooled, and of all age bracket, economic bracket, and some are married and some are single.  In fact, there are many feminists out there who are not coming to the prolife movement out of Christian feelings, but out of considering abortion as being one of the greatest threats toward's women and life.  Still, we who are prolife are to face questions and hatred, and that is why we need this book to help us...along with the most important book for a Christian, the Holy Bible.<br /><br />This book by Randy Alcorn is an important one in examining point/counterpoint questions and answers toward the abortion issue that is so paramount in this day and age in its question toward whether or not life is to be considered sacred or just a convenience.  Alcorn has always done a great job at what he does.  In fact, if you take this book and work with it along with his other book, Deadline, you have an awesome foundation for a Christian class on abortion and the Christian worldview vs. the World's worldview.  While even the prolife movement can be irrational at times, it is the prochoicers who twists those of us who call life sacred into being demonized by popular media-whether magazines like News Week or the news on CNN.  By using this book, one is able to counter any of the more irrational and hateful arguments and points the prochoicers like to make.  This is important because we as Christians, and I am coming to this as a Christian though there are many who are not Christian but still prolife, are appointed by the Great Commission to go out and witness and champion the lawful cause of Christ Jesus who is the head of the church.  I would say to all those whom are Christian who wish to have the answers ready when called to witness toward the abortion issue, buy this book, read this book, and learn it well.onal at times, it is the prochoicers who twists those of us who call life sacred into being demonized by popular media-whether magazines like News Week or the news on CNN.  By using this book, one is able to counter any of the more irrational and hateful arguments and points the prochoicers like to make.  This is important because we as Christians, and I am coming to this as a Christian though there are many who are not Christian but still prolife, are appointed by the Great Commission to go out and witness and champion the lawful cause of Christ Jesus who is the head of the church.  I would say to all those whom are Christian who wish to have the answers ready when called to witness toward the abortion issue, buy this book, read this book, and learn it well.	2005-04-02
US	36727219	R3BAU38NOP4L5T	0060675187	946877738	Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of Scripture	Books	1	19	178	N	N	Blind leading the blind	That is the message of this book.  Spong is, sad to say, one of the greatest traps for many a Christian in this day and age.  He acts as if he knows what he is talking about, but sadly, he does not.  He says that evolution is true, that Genesis is false.  He says that the virgin birth and resurrection are false, but still \\"Christ was a good man.\\"  Wrong.  Dead wrong.  Deadly wrong.  To believe Spong is to believe in the lies of Satan that have crept over the centuries.  To believe Spong is to believe in the darkness and not of the light.  I pray that anyone reading this review will realize that the only true source of knowledge, of understanding, of truth, can be found in believing in a literal interpretation of the Bible.  Anything less is pointless.  Anything less is spitting in the face of the Father who sent His Son to die for us...just as Scriptures and prophecies foretold.  But let me give a few arguments against the arguments of Spong so you will understand what I am saying.<br /><br />You cannot be a Christian and believe in Evolution.  Why?  Because.  First, by denying Genesis and what God reveals through Genesis, you deny that fact of Genesis' point of view that God is a creator God, an intimate God wanting an intimate relationship with us. Instead, you make God into a aloof figure, impersonal, and immaterial to the universe that Genesis states He created. Secondly, through saying that evolution is true, you are dismissing the cause and effect of original sin. If evolution happened then there was no moment of original sin that broke the bond between we as humans and our Lord Creator. Third, if there was no original sin, then there is no reason to believe in Christ Jesus and His message to us all. You are then denying Christ's triumph over man's original sin through His virgin birth, His death, and then His resurrection.  Evolution is the false religion of man worshiping man through man's pride and man's arrogance and man's self-centeredness. You cannot be a Christian and an evolutionist, if you tried, you would be trying to serve two masters, the one true God and the god of this age, Satan. And in the end, you would, more often than not, end up serving Satan.<br /><br />You cannot be a Christian and not believe in the virgin birth, the death, and the resurrection of Christ.  You may call yourself a Christian, but by denying the truth of Scriptures shows that you are lost and in the dark.  Listen to what Paul says.  1 Corinthians 15:12-14:  \\"But if it is preached that Christ has been raised from the dead how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?  If there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised.  And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith.\\"  Gospel of John 11:25-26:  \\"I am the resurrection and the life.  He who believes in me will live, even though he dies; and whoever lives and believes in me will never die.  Do you believe this?\\"  That is the important question, in the end, do you believe what Jesus says and what the Holy Spirit has brought forth in the Bible to say? In other words, to say that Christ is not the Christ Jesus of the holy scriptures, is to say a lie.  A lie that is not just a lie that brings one down, but a lie that buries one into the very depth of hell itself.<br /><br />This isn't about me being a fundamentalist and saying I'm right just \\"because\\" and Spong is wrong just \\"because\\".  This is about what makes up a Christian.  A Christian is someone who trusts the Bible to be what it says it is.  Above all other religions?  Yes.  All other religions are man made.  Not of God.  All roads do not lead to God.  Christ Jesus in the Bible, despite what Spong and supporters like him speak, says that He is the Road...He is the gate...that leads us to the Father.  No other.  Is that narrow minded?  Jesus Himself says this, so if you have a problem, then talk to the One who died on the Cross and rose again for us.  Don'ttalk to me.  The Bible must be trusted as saying what it is saying literally.  If you want to say that evolution is true, then you take some bricks from the wall that supports being Christian as being a follower of Christ Jesus.  If you want to say \\"the virgin birth\\" for example \\"is false\\" like Spong says, then you take some bricks from the wall.  If you want to say \\"Jesus didn't die on the cross and rise on the third day\\" then you take some more bricks from the wall. Sooner or later, after compromising again and again just so that the politically correct and the \\"open minded\\" ones can be apeased, you will have no wall.<br /><br />To be a Christian, to be a follower of Christ and thus let Him lead you to the Father, you must trust the Bible as is.  There is no room for compromising, despite what the liberal left \\"spiritualists\\" like Spong like to say.  Despite what they like to say, the Bible IS supported as it is, as it is literally.  There is ample evidence that supports that the Bible is true, above all other religion or philosophies that have been man made and thus fall short of the glory of God.  Because if the Bible is not what it says it is, if the Bible is not taken literally and prophetically, then there is no hope to any of us.  There is no salvation, no answer, no past, no present, and no future.  If the Bible isn't suppose to be taken literally and that there is many roads that lead to \\"god\\" then we have nothing to hold unto during the storms of our lives.  We will have no assurance, no guarantee, no hope, no love.  Only if we take the Bible literally, only if we accept Jesus Christ literally, can we find hope and love and everlasting peace.  Mr Spong?  He is a long way off, but I hope and pray that one day he does realize that the Christianity that he holds in his hands is a false one....and that he will go back into realizing the truth ... the whole truth ... of the Bible.<br /><br />For now though, Mr. Spong, I refuse to call him a pastor or a reverend because he is touched by the Lie, does not know what he is talking about in this book and in the many other books.  I am not saying that we who take scripture for literal revelation is always right.  We can only let ourselves listen to what the Spirit of Truth, not the spirit of this age, says to us.  Sometimes we can be bombastic, sometimes we can be egotistical, yes.  But then again, we are all human.  However.  I place my firm total faith in what the Bible says about God's creation, revelation, resurrection, and redemption for the human race.  I pray that you who like this fellow will one day realize he is leading you through the darkness that lies in the hands of Satan.  I hope that you will realize that Spong knows not what he is saying, because if he was truly in the Spirit of Truth, he would not be saying what he is saying.must be trusted as saying what it is saying literally.  If you want to say that evolution is true, then you take some bricks from the wall that supports being Christian as being a follower of Christ Jesus.  If you want to say \\"the virgin birth\\" for example \\"is false\\" like Spong says, then you take some bricks from the wall.  If you want to say \\"Jesus didn't die on the cross and rise on the third day\\" then you take some more bricks from the wall. Sooner or later, after compromising again and again just so that the politically correct and the \\"open minded\\" ones can be apeased, you will have no wall.       To be a Christian, to be a follower of Christ and thus let Him lead you to the Father, you must trust the Bible as is.  There is no room for compromising, despite what the liberal left \\"spiritualists\\" like Spong like to say.  Despite what they like to say, the Bible IS supported as it is, as it is literally.  There is ample evidence that supports that the Bible is true, above all other religion or philosophies that have been man made and thus fall short of the glory of God.  Because if the Bible is not what it says it is, if the Bible is not taken literally and prophetically, then there is no hope to any of us.  There is no salvation, no answer, no past, no present, and no future.  If the Bible isn't suppose to be taken literally and that there is many roads that lead to \\"god\\" then we have nothing to hold unto during the storms of our lives.  We will have no assurance, no guarantee, no hope, no love.  Only if we take the Bible literally, only if we accept Jesus Christ literally, can we find hope and love and everlasting peace.  Mr Spong?  He is a long way off, but I hope and pray that one day he does realize that the Christianity that he holds in his hands is a false one....and that he will go back into realizing the truth ... the whole truth ... of the Bible.    For now though, Mr. Spong, I refuse to call him a pastor or a reverend because he is touched by the Lie,does not know what he is talking about in this book and in the many other books.  I am not saying that we who take scripture for literal revelation is always right.  We can only let ourselves listen to what the Spirit of Truth, not the spirit of this age, says to us.  Sometimes we can be bombastic, sometimes we can be egotistical, yes.  But then again, we are all human.  However.  I place my firm total faith in what the Bible says about God's creation, revelation, resurrection, and redemption for the human race.  I pray that you who like this fellow will one day realize he is leading you through the darkness that lies in the hands of Satan.  I hope that you will realize that Spong knows not what he is saying, because if he was truly in the Spirit of Truth, he would not be saying what he is saying.	2005-03-20
US	36727219	R18A5N4CEQ0N26	1560255080	205134163	The I Hate Republicans Reader: Why the GOP Is Totally Wrong About Everything ("I Hate" Series, The)	Books	1	15	86	N	N	Why the hate, well that is self evident	Is it because you know that the conservative party makes more sense than your party?  Is that not what the last election showed, that mainstream America is tired of the liberal party shoving their decayed Politically Correct \\"values\\" down America's throat?  Why should I not be offended by what the liberal party has done?  Speaking of this as a Christian and a Republican (though of course just that notion makes the far left sick to the stomach due to their postmodern antagonism against anything remotely Judeo-Christian ), why would I not be offended at the millions of children that have been slaughtered in the narrow minded name of choice...choosing death of a child out of convenience instead of choosing life of a child out of morality.  More children have died from abortion than the concentration camps (where, by the way, I am sure liberals such as this editor wishes the Christians to go).  Why should I not be offended that the ultra liberal fascists speaking from this book and the others in the \\"I Hate\\" series use minorities (African American, et al) and women as a buffer...that is, not giving them true solutions, and instead, patting their backs so they can vote for the liberal party and then tucking these folks back under the rug until the next election period.<br /><br />What good has the liberal party shown that would bring these egotistical essayists on board on a book like this?  They've taken morality and truth out of our schools, out of our universities...while also trying so desperately to take morality and truth out of our families, out of our politics, out of our churches.  Essayists like these who have come on board on this book are the same ones that support the hate filled mud slinging the ACLU does toward groups like Focus on the Family and the Boy Scouts.  What a sad day it is.<br /><br />Now I am not saying the Republicans have all the answers.  Republicans can be as bad as liberals in some respect.  Neither side is perfect.  No.  Republicans are as human as liberals.  We're all sinners and we all need God.  But as the antagonists in this book and books like this toward Christian Republicans have shown, anyone who speaks out for morality and moral codes are hated, mocked, and jeered at.  So basically, the liberals who enjoy books like this enjoy being on their high horse, but really have nothing to show for themselves except their hatred...which eats them up and brings them to a bitter end in their lives.<br /><br />A better book to read on how we need to grow past the mud slinging books like this and antiChristian and antisocial politics is the following:  God's Politics : Why the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It -- by Jim Wallis.  A book like this helps one to develop critical thinking skills while still staying true to Christian beliefs.  I would also suggest the book What If America were a Christian Nation Again? by D James Kennedy.s human as liberals.  We're all sinners and we all need God.  But as the antagonists in this book and books like this toward Christian Republicans have shown, anyone who speaks out for morality and moral codes are hated, mocked, and jeered at.  So basically, the liberals who enjoy books like this enjoy being on their high horse, but really have nothing to show for themselves except their hatred...which eats them up and brings them to a bitter end in their lives.<br /><br />A better book to read on how we need to grow past the mud slinging books like this and antiChristian and antisocial politics is the following:  God's Politics : Why the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It -- by Jim Wallis.  A book like this helps one to develop critical thinking skills while still staying true to Christian beliefs.  I would also suggest the book What If America were a Christian Nation Again? by D James Kennedy.	2005-02-19
US	36727219	R1RD9RZEZK846W	0842379428	774560976	Heaven	Books	5	29	34	N	N	A wonderful book to have a discussion over	I have checked the book out today from my local bookstore and started reading it right away.  I've always though Randy Alcorn as an excellent author both fiction and nonfiction.  His book Deadline is one of the most influential books (for me at any rate) in my Christian walk.  He has also done a fine job exploring the Prolife worldview in comparison to the Prochoice in his book Prolife Answers to Prochoice Arguments.  Both books are available here at Amazon.<br /><br />Now he has stunned me again in his book Heaven.  The issue of this book is one I am sure we all as Christians love, but to be honest, a subject hard to consider.  I mean, as Alcorn points out, we hear discussions for hours and pages on end about say the Beatitudes or maybe life as a race (from the letters of Paul), and even whole series on the End Times ... but funny, when we try to talk about Heaven, what it is like before the New Earth and what the Bible says will be like in the New Earth... we are stumped.  Furthermore, I know we've all seen plenty of cartoons where it shows people sitting on clouds and well...either looking off in the distance or wishing for a magazine to read.  Not exciting ideas.  Let me tell you.  We should not focus on this world.  We may have taxes, we will have good days and bad, but this is not our home.  This world is but a pale shadow of what God offers us through His Love.  Jesus IS the ladder that brings us from this world to our true world, our true universe, with the Lord God.<br /><br />In this book, though, I have found a wealth of information that truly brings in my heart and soul a sense of excitement... of \\"I can't wait\\" to see what God has to offer those He loves.  Worship yes.  Adventure yes.  Love and joy yes.  We should be excited, God wants us to be with Him.  That was why, despite Adam's fall, God sent His Son Jesus to die on the cross.  That is why there is the resurrection and the life found in the Son who leads us out of love to the Father.  Here's a little clip that I love that Alcorn speaks of in his book (page 22):<br /><br />  If you're a Christian suffering with great pains and loss, Jesus says \\"Be of good cheer\\" (John 16:33, NKJV).  The new house is nearly ready for you.  Moving day is coming.  The dark winter is about to be magically transformed into spring.  One day soon you will be home--for the first time.  Until then, I encourage you to meditate on the Bible's truths about Heaven.  May your imagination soar and your heart rejoice.<br /><br />Read this book my friends, read this and praise the Lord.  We can truly look forward to that better day.  We can truly look forward that our greatest adventure is about ready to start.  Our true life, eternal life, awaits us all who follow the Good Shephard.a little clip that I love that Alcorn speaks of in his book (page 22): <br />     If you're a Christian suffering with great pains and loss, Jesus says \\"Be of good cheer\\" (John 16:33, NKJV).  The new house is nearly ready for you.  Moving day is coming.  The dark winter is about to be magically transformed into spring.  One day soon you will be home--for the first time.  Until then, I encourage you to meditate on the Bible's truths about Heaven.  May your imagination soar and your heart rejoice. <br /> <br />Read this book my friends, read this and praise the Lord.  We can truly look forward to that better day.  We can truly look forward that our greatest adventure is about ready to start.  Our true life, eternal life, awaits us all who follow the Good Shephard.	2005-02-19
US	36727219	R3GEZCNBOB3IY2	0736904646	508804670	Dismantling Evolution: Building the Case for Intelligent Design (Examine the Evidence)	Books	5	15	28	N	N	One of the most powerful books against the evolution lie	The book speaks to you on a conversational level.  It does not hold academia high above your head and expects you to understand what the book has to say.  The book doesn't just say that Genesis is correct and that's that.  It goes deep into each and every argument of the evolution lie and dismantles each and every one of them a step at a time.  A book like this is important because evolution...the lie and the racist idea that it is...is practically stapled to our schools and our universities.  The concept of an Intelligent Design/er is realistic, scientific, and worthy of accepting.  Only those who hate Christians and Christianity will go against such a book, and I do know many of those...they cling to the idea of evolution but this \\"scientific idea\\" is like sand that slowly slides through the palm of their hands.  The concept of evolution holds no true ground.  If you truly look at it, you realize just how foolish it is.<br /><br />Christians need books like this and books like those of Hugh Ross that shows the foolishness of atheism and humanism evolution.  The mere thought that evolution could exist on what is referred to as a macroevolution scale is absurd.  Then there's the realization that evolution itself has so many different types of hypothesis shows that there is no firm groundwork.  However, if you take cosmic design and human design, bringing them all together facing you, you realize that the Bible is right.  That there is a Creator and we and the universe around us are the created.  Do you not realize the following as stated in this book?<br /><br />This book follows the thought pattern of the apostle Paul.  We need to examine the evidence for the Bible before us, so that we can bring intelligence to the debate...not just arguing \\"I'm right and you are wrong\\" and that's that.  By examining the evidence, by truly keeping an open mind while exploring books like Dismantling Evolution and Hugh Ross's Fingerprint of God, we realize that our Christian faith is a wall that cannot be brought down.  The final thought by the author, Ralph Muncaster, shows an important truth:<br /><br />  \\"In essence, this challenge [the one faced by evolutionists today] means a change of faith from one unseen to another.  No one has ever seen evolution in action.  Nor has anyone ever seen an intelligent designer such as God.  Both require faith.  Faith in the nothing of evolution leads us to despair.  Belief in the God of intelligent design leads us to great hope...Those who cast off the weights of evolutionary presuppositions can scale that final peak and find peace in an intelligent-designer God--a real God that has beautifully and wonderfully crafted all living things He's waiting for evolutionists to find him--and the hope he can bring them all\\" (224).th is a wall that cannot be brought down.  The final thought by the author, Ralph Muncaster, shows an important truth: <br />    \\"In essence, this challenge [the one faced by evolutionists today] means a change of faith from one unseen to another.  No one has ever seen evolution in action.  Nor has anyone ever seen an intelligent designer such as God.  Both require faith.  Faith in the nothing of evolution leads us to despair.  Belief in the God of intelligent design leads us to great hope...Those who cast off the weights of evolutionary presuppositions can scale that final peak and find peace in an intelligent-designer God--a real God that has beautifully and wonderfully crafted all living things He's waiting for evolutionists to find him--and the hope he can bring them all\\" (224).	2005-02-16
US	36727219	R157TTYM9YPGQH	0743266390	640284860	The Intimate World of Abraham Lincoln	Books	1	34	83	N	N	A sad sad day for history education	Why is it a sad day, well look at this book. Flip through the pages. It has no substance, no backing toward its theses. The historical pretense of this book has as much substance as air. How does this \\"author\\" state his argument, through falsified discussions, through strained looks at early poems of Lincoln, and the idea that because Lincoln hit puberty early means (as the activists like to say) he was gay.  One poem, for example, is a humorous poem about the absurdity of two men marrying.  Yet the \\"historian\\" Tripp says this means Lincoln was gay.  Then there's the idea of early puberty bringing about homosexuality.  This \\"scientific\\" analysis is without merrit and without any truth.  It is, at best, quasi-scientific fluff.  There is no evidence, no foundation, no cause to even consider Lincoln being homosexual.  This  book is a myth, a pure simple driveled myth.  It just isn't right and it just isn't true. Still, it doesn't take 20/20 vision to realize what is backing this book up... the politiks of America.  The late author of this book was a firm gay politicks homosexual.  And like a few others who are also in this coven, he pushes the futile argument out of wanting to flag wave his agenda.  Ever since many of the states declined gay marriage, the gay marriage marchers have been trying to do whatever they can to distort American history and faith (if you know or not an author a little over a year and a half ago tried to say Jesus was gay). The book has an agenda and it seems that those who are giving it high stars are lauding to proceed with this agenda driven book.  Of course, the same people who would champion such a blatant attempt at trying to sway the American public with \\"gay\\" leaders (or anything that is under being \\"good\\" on the political correct check list) are the same people who show any lack of moral aptitude.<br /><br />For example, they say that books like this have a right to say what they say (despite the fact there is no backing, and what \\"evidence\\" there is for Lincoln being homosexual is naught) and yet we who speak up as Christians are told that we have no right to speak up in public about our religious beliefs (they, the liberal regime, says there is freedom of speech for only those who are politically correct).  This book, yes, has a right to be published even though the only thing that fuels this book is gay rights agenda and nothing else (i.e., there isn't any historical basis for this book), but I would hope and pray that intelligent people out there will realize that as this book has an agenda, that agenda is to undermine any sense of moral truths, family values, and respect toward historical leaders.  The reason many give this book five stars is because many wish to push forward the gay agenda so that gay heroes are created.  No matter that truth is being pushed under the carpet.  No matter that reality is altered to fit the needs of politicks.  All that matters to these kinds of people is that through lies America can sink further into the wasteland that political correctness and postmodernism philosophies have created.<br /><br />I say in all due respects toward this important leader in American history:  Lincoln was not gay.  Lincoln was never gay.  The gay Lincoln is a myth.  Bottom line.  Fact. Get over it and let it be.ence\\" there is for Lincoln being homosexual is naught) and yet we who speak up as Christians are told that we have no right to speak up in public about our religious beliefs (they, the liberal regime, says there is freedom of speech for only those who are politically correct).  This book, yes, has a right to be published even though the only thing that fuels this book is gay rights agenda and nothing else (i.e., there isn't any historical basis for this book), but I would hope and pray that intelligent people out there will realize that as this book has an agenda, that agenda is to undermine any sense of moral truths, family values, and respect toward historical leaders.  The reason many give this book five stars is because many wish to push forward the gay agenda so that gay heroes are created.  No matter that truth is being pushed under the carpet.  No matter that reality is altered to fit the needs of politicks.  All that matters to these kinds of people is that through lies America can sink further into the wasteland that political correctness and postmodernism philosophies have created.<br /><br />I say in all due respects toward this important leader in American history:  Lincoln was not gay.  Lincoln was never gay.  The gay Lincoln is a myth.  Bottom line.  Fact. Get over it and let it be.	2005-02-15
US	36727219	R31ARIZC945AQD	1576733165	836458314	Deadline (Ollie Chandler, Book 1)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the Best Christian fiction books out there	I read this book a few years ago and I loved it.  It is not a fun read, it isn't something you can just sit back and read without paying attention to every word being placed before you.  It isn't a Tom Clancy book, it isn't a Dan Brown book, in fact, it is far superior to most if not all books out there now.  The reason for that is because the book is brutally honest of how the liberal worldview clashes and slams the Christian worldview simply because the Christian worldview is not politically correct.  That, in effect, is the heart of the novel.  Yes there is a mystery.  Yes it a character study of how and what people do...from relationships to school to home to church.  But the book is much more.  And that is where it counts the most.<br /><br />In this day and age the liberal worldview persecutes and abuses the Christian worldview, in effect practicing Christianphobia, when it comes to issues such as homosexuality, abortion, marriage, and education.  This book takes both sides of the coin and debates them through the mouths of the characters.  We see an honest point of view of those on the left and those on the right, those who are of the world's worldview (postmodern, we're all god, can't judge anything except Christians, and choicers etc.) and those of the Christian worldview (one God, salvation through Christ, grace, prolife while being prowomen, caring for those who are gay while not agreeing to accept their lifestyle).  We gain an appreciation toward what Christians believe while disecting the lies that the liberal left gives.<br /><br />Now, of course the book doesn't present the Christians as pure \\"white hats\\" and liberals and the world's worldview as the \\"black hats\\".  No, these are real people, real passions on both side, real reasons why the Christian view is superior not because Christian's are necessarily the good guys, but because life based upon a relationship with God through Christ and living for God's will and not our will.  Christians are not right because they themselves are right, but because God is in the right through we humans having a living working relationship with God through Christ Jesus. It is about God, in the end, and the bond between we humans and God through Christ.  It, as another writer says, isn't about us, it's about Him.  And that is the ultimate message that hits home so hard and so wonderfully in this book.not right because they themselves are right, but because God is in the right through we humans having a living working relationship with God through Christ Jesus. It is about God, in the end, and the bond between we humans and God through Christ.  It, as another writer says, isn't about us, it's about Him.  And that is the ultimate message that hits home so hard and so wonderfully in this book.	2005-02-09
US	36727219	R3PC4YBCGL2ZGD	0834003465	869705717	Boldtext Pew Bible: King James Version	Books	5	8	25	N	N	I find it interesting	While I dont much care for the King James version in and of itself, I myself am partial to the NKJV or the NIV, I am amazed at how many hate-filled statements are being made against the Bible.  I am a Christian and I am proud to be a Christian, in the sense that I am not afraid of saying I am Christian.  I see though that there are many Christianphobics writing nasty remarks because they can, not because they have anything truly important to say.  I see many of you are giving one star to the Bible because you aren't a Christian and you hate Christians.  I wonder if you have ever thought to see why we believe what we believe?  Or do you just want to throw a tantrum because you have the ability to.  How very narrow-minded.<br /><br />Yet I must step back.  I realize that reading the Bible in and of itself is a complex task.  It is hard to see at times how one book of the Bible reacts and reflects on the next book of the Bible.  For example, it is complicated seeing how the book of Daniel connects through the Olivet Discourse with the Book of Christ's Revelation.  I would suggest reading the series, Thru the Bible by J. Vernon McGee.  He is great at discussing the concepts found within the Bible from Genesis to Revelation.  The Bible has a remarkable track record in terms of remaining true to time and space between writings of Books, Gospels, and letters.  Archeology backs up the Bible.  History backs up the Bible.  The study of the very translations shows that there aren't any fallacies between copies.  In fact, I stand to say that there is far more proof that supports the Bible and what the Bible has to say to this fallen race of ours, than there is against the Bible...and all those \\"supposed\\" proofs against the Bible are nothing more than puffs of smoke beltched by Christianphobic bigots.<br /><br />Still you might say, well that doesn't show anything, well then I would suggest reading some of these fine titles that will help you see why intelligent people like myself belief fully in what the Bible says about God, God's revelations to us, God's message to us, and God's work of salvation for us.  And yes I do consider myself intelligent in that I have not only a Undergrad Degree in History, but also a Master's Degree in Educational Theory, and I am going back to college to get a third degree in Divinity in several months.<br /><br />Here are some titles you might find interesting:<br />*Dismantling Evolution by Ralph O. Muncaster<br />*How Now Shall We Live? by Charles Colson<br />*What if Jesus had Never Been Born by D James Kennedy<br />*New Evidence That Demands a Verdict by Josh McDowell<br /><br />Those who say they have \\"studied\\" and are so sure that the Bible is fake, must be studying the kind of books that only fit their narrow minded bigoted worldview.  Instead of reading both sides of the coins.  Of course one would allow themselves to be vendicated by reading books that spout God's word to be false, and that any thing goes and there are no consequences to their actions.  Instead, if you truly look at the Bible, if you truly open yourself to the movement of the Holy Spirit upon your soul, you will see so much proof that the Bible is true.  Let's look at some points through archeology.  Archeology proves both the Old Covenant and the New Covenant.<br /><br />For the OC/OT, there is scientific proof that what the Bible says about the conditions before and after the flood are there...that there was the green house effect before the flood (just as the Bible speaks of in describing the world early on in Genesis) then there are the conditions after the flood.  Archeology supports Abraham's story in the book of Genesis, too.  Along with the grave of Abraham and Sarah, et al.  Furthermore, for OC/OT there is the proof of God's law written upon the heart of Man (and for the Hebrews, founded on the laws God gave to Moses), also found in the Laws of Hammurabi and the tablets in Ras Shamra.  Then there is the NC/NT proof from archeology.  History has proven the vidication that there has been a Jesus Christ through historical exploration...and if you've read CSLewis, you realize that Jesus had to be everything He said He was.<br /><br />Evidence for the NC/NT comes through writings of eyewitnesses, through archeological verification, and other archeological events.  The gospels have been shown to be what they are, not like the liberal \\"christians\\" and \\"christianphobics\\" like to say...there is firm evidence supporting that they were written from before the destruction of the temple (Matthew, Mark, Luke) through the time of the destruction of the temple (John).has been a Jesus Christ through historical exploration...and if you've read CSLewis, you realize that Jesus had to be everything He said He was.      Evidence for the NC/NT comes through writings of eyewitnesses, through archeological verification, and other archeological events.  The gospels have been shown to be what they are, not like the liberal \\"christians\\" and \\"christianphobics\\" like to say...there is firm evidence supporting that they were written from before the destruction of the temple (Matthew, Mark, Luke) through the time of the destruction of the temple (John).	2005-01-31
US	36727219	R1MJM9UBVZHH2A	0786934379	775375150	Map Folio 3-D (Dungeon & Dragons Accessories)	Books	1	20	37	N	N	Its usable, but very misleading	First of all, I must say that the buildings in and of themselves in this book are rather well designed and flawless in their rpg value.  Much like what you may find in the Warhammer line of games, this can be used in a variety of rp systems.  That in and of itself is good. However, however I want to make it clear that there is one major problem with this book of buildings--the picture on the front shows a castle...the picture on the back shows a castle...there is NO castle in this booklet.  You get a wall, a cottage, a tower, an inn, a smithy, and a outbuilding.  But if you are expecting to have a nicely designed castle in this book...you aren't going to find it.  That in and of itself is the reason I give this a one star.  I consider that false advertising so to speak.  I work in retail and when I told a customer the fact I am letting you (potential buyers you are) about this, he too was very upset.  Of course this book is about ten dollars, give or take a penny, so its not like you are shelling out the Warhammer kind of dollars (in the fifty to 100 range of $$$).  Still, as the book does not contain the castle, which looks pretty spiffy at least via the front and back cover, there is a sour note to this purchase.<br /><br />In the end, yes the buildings are a wonderful addition to one's games, but I and some of my buyers have been miffed by the fact that you belief you are getting not just the buildings that you do get, but also the castle...which would have given this a five star review.	2005-01-09
US	36727219	RIQ68ASYKPZRG	0842384375	341353984	The Last Disciple	Books	3	13	22	N	N	Reasons to disagree with the book's prophetic view	This one star rating is not meant to cause a ranting between Christian believers, I have no grit and no animosity toward those who might agree with Hank's paradigm of prophecy...I might disagree, and I will share why I disagree, but this is not meant to be done in spite.  With that said, let me explain.  I am not trying to say that Mr. Hannegraaff's heart isn't in the right place, nor am I going to say that I have a \\"better\\" or \\"more righteous\\" view toward prophecy than the two writers of this book (and thus this series).  However, I feel that I have to give several reasons as to why I disagree with the prophetic paradigm being explored by these books.  I will admit I am a premillenialist and I am so after several years of study.  I'm not Mr. \\"Know it all\\" but I think I need to explain my views toward the series.<br /><br />*First of all, by taking away the Futurist model of the Olivet Discourse and the Book of Revelation, you are denying any final \\"fate\\" for the Gentile believers.  There are, then, no blessed hopes...there is no marriage...there is no marriage feast...there is no return with Christ to judge evil upon the world...to name a few prophecies that I myself take as end time prophecies, not \\"figurative languages\\" that really mean something else. The Church as a Whole, as a  body of believers, has no true final stand in the sense that God has a real meaning for the church...with no real final end of time, the church just keeps smiling and that's about it.  No acknowledging of what the Church did right, no discussion toward what the Church did wrong.  The Church just seems to \\"keep trucking\\" always and onward.  I have to agree with the premillenialist model in that I have to say that there is a definite fate, as I examine scripture, for the church.  There is the blessed hope, there is the marriage and the feast, in my humble opinion.<br /><br />*Secondly, by taking away the Futurist model of the Olivet Discourse and the Book of Revelation, you are taking away the final \\"stand\\" of the Jewish nation...of the Jewish people.  Thus there are no two Jewish witnesses, are no 144,000 witnesses...there is no healing of Jerusalem and finally, there is no recreation of creation and a new Jerusalem...all of that, it seems in Hank's model...to be nothing more than figurative language.  The Jews have no final examination and no final being brought through the fire to show the gold in the Jewish heart and soul.  God has no fate, no final stand for the Jews and all that they have endured through history.  Maybe I am wrong about that, but it seems that God does have a specific fate and aim toward His work in the hearts and souls of the Jewish people over the past two thousand some years.<br /><br />*Third, by stripping away the Futurist point of view of premillenialism and saying the Olivet Discourse and Book of Revelation are mere message just and aiming to the early church and no one else down the line of history...there is thus no final judgement by God toward Satan and the evils of mankind.  There is no stripping away of Satan's AntiChrist (thus there is no final AntiChrist), there is no throwing Satan's wrongs into the fire of damnation.  Instead, there is \\"something\\" that happens finally, and that's it...God is not really sharing with us anything toward the future of mankind toward God's aim toward all the evil that has ever taken place.  The very fact that Hank takes alway all Futurist POVs means there is no final destination toward and for evil.  I have to say that in my study of prophecy, God does have a clear aim toward there being a point toward where He will have His final say toward all the evils that have ever existed since time immortal.<br /><br />Now on the good side, I have to admit that the book itself is well designed and that it flows better than many other Christian fiction novels out there.  I am not the biggest fan of Jenkin's writing style in many of his books, for example, because I feel his style just it to...easy.  Some books are done well, many others aren't.  There is no in depth exploration of characters and situations.  Furthermore, Hank is also someone I do admire because he has done a great job with the resources of his institution.  Over the years Hank has done a marvelous job at witnessing and preaching the gospel across America and around the world.  I give him coodoes for that!  And even more importantly, at least through him I can see how the profits made go toward an end, unlike what I sometimes worry toward the LaHaye End Time series because it seems like the books are just too commercial (i.e., seems to be more interested in a Madison Ave. style of preaching instead of heart to heart, soul to soul such as the fact that a \\"prequal\\" series is coming out for the LB series).  Thus the reason why I am giving it a three star...I disagree with the prophetic idea, but its not a bad book per say.  In the end you will have to give it your own thought, decide if you agree or disagree with the book itself and its show toward prophecy.  I think you'll like it if you just want to read a book in and of itself that is a Christian novel (instead of the trash mostly found out there in this day and age).  I hope you at least give Hanks' book a chance.just it to...easy.  Some books are done well, many others aren't.  There is no in depth exploration of characters and situations.  Furthermore, Hank is also someone I do admire because he has done a great job with the resources of his institution.  Over the years Hank has done a marvelous job at witnessing and preaching the gospel across America and around the world.  I give him coodoes for that!  And even more importantly, at least through him I can see how the profits made go toward an end, unlike what I sometimes worry toward the LaHaye End Time series because it seems like the books are just too commercial (i.e., seems to be more interested in a Madison Ave. style of preaching instead of heart to heart, soul to soul such as the fact that a \\"prequal\\" series is coming out for the LB series).  Thus the reason why I am giving it a three star...I disagree with the prophetic idea, but its not a bad book per say.  In the end you will have to give it your own thought, decide if you agree or disagree with the book itself and its show toward prophecy.  I think you'll like it if you just want to read a book in and of itself that is a Christian novel (instead of the trash mostly found out there in this day and age).  I hope you at least give Hanks' book a chance.	2005-01-01
US	36727219	R2NNLBDH1NJ6PW	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	1	25	68	N	N	From a Republican's Point of View	First off I am a republican, and even before I heard of this situation with the Swift Boat vs. JK, I knew I was going to elect George W. Bush again.  The reasons I am voting for Bush are because he is the one who fits my worldview (prolife, promarriage, economics, etc.).  Now you could be voting for Kerry because he best supports you for the reasons you are going to vote for him.  That's fine.  That's voting.  That's democracy. Secondly, I am a firm supporter of the Vietnam Vets.  My grandfather was high up in the military when he was killed in Vietnam due to a terrorist act.  I support the Vietnam Vets who stand tall with their heads up high despite the mixed feelings toward the war even after thirty some years.  Yes I do believe that Kerry was not one of these men, in that he in my opinion turned around and spit in the face of the Vets ... even now he spits in the face of the Vietnam vets. However ...<br /><br />I think that this book, however, really has nothing to give because I would think that for a majority like me, they will be voting for the one who best supports their worldview.  Basically the book is preaching to the choir.  The media time this book has been given is the only major reason why I think this book is selling faster than a forest fire in California (no pun intended).  I think the majority of those of us who vote, and I speak for both Republicans and Democrats, know and knew who they were going to vote for anyway.  This  book is only going to sew more anger from the right to the left and from the left to the right, without really answering how the candidates are speaking toward that voter's worldviews.  How does Bush best represent the Republicans?  How does Kerry best represent the Liberals?  If this book had been written, say, two, maybe three years ago, it would have been at best low in the top 100 social politics/science books of that year.  Maybe. But I'm willing to bet that if it had been written a few years back, hardly anyone would have taken notice.<br /><br />In another consideration, I think that there have been some pretty mixed up people out there dealing with this book.  As a man who works in a bookstore myself, I have seen or heard of several instances where people have challenged our store being a part of a vast liberal campaign to not allow this book to be published and sold on the free market.  The reason it was so hard for our bookstore to get was because there's such a demand for the book due to all the press it has  been given for the past few weeks.<br /><br />People, this book isn't the Bible, while it might have some interesting...nay, maybe even some valid points...like I said before...its really just preaching to the choir.  The book is a haphazard quilt of spindoctoring that its hard to consider this look at times a firm foothold on a fair delving into the meaning of Kerry's career in the military.  For example, the photo section of the book shows at the end part of the photos a picture of those who dont support and that one person who does support Kerry's election.  If you look closer, the picture of those who would not support Kerry in this election contains notations of those who are NA or have passed on.  Yes I know that this part is worded differently but the way the two photos are laid out is pure spindoctoring.<br /><br />After you finish reading this book you are going to take from it what you expect already and have decided toward Kerry even before cracking open the book.  If you dont like Kerry, you'll love the book, if you dont like the Republicans, well this book will fuel even more dislike for the Republicans.  If you dont like Kerry, well you'll probably not like him any more than you did before hand, if you dont like Bush well you'll consider this an even larger attempt at doctoring for Bush's reelection. I do not see this book being a true historical doctument that will sway those undecided votes.  I doubt that this book will be that important for those undecidedvotes.<br /><br />As I say before.  When it comes down to it, you are going to vote for the one who supports your worldview socially and politically.  That's only understandable.  A book like this only deflects from the real job of a campaign...that is, delving into how that candidate examines the issues...and just makes up filler time for media coverage on the news.  When I go to the voting pole, I will be voting for Bush not because of the past for either of the two main men running for president, but for what Bush will be doing for my worldview here and now.  What he can do today instead of the mistakes or the mishaps or the thumb's up from years ago.e.  When it comes down to it, you are going to vote for the one who supports your worldview socially and politically.  That's only understandable.  A book like this only deflects from the real job of a campaign...that is, delving into how that candidate examines the issues...and just makes up filler time for media coverage on the news.  When I go to the voting pole, I will be voting for Bush not because of the past for either of the two main men running for president, but for what Bush will be doing for my worldview here and now.  What he can do today instead of the mistakes or the mishaps or the thumb's up from years ago.	2004-08-29
US	36727219	R3NPJRDI1TSZ9E	0553803220	665836968	Babylon Rising	Books	4	6	9	N	N	For a Christian reader, this is a must	The story itself, that of Babylon Rising by Tim LaHaye, is a modern day search for ancient secrets of the Bible.  The story has the main characters searching for the serpent rod that Mose held up for the Israelites during the time in the wilderness.  Driven by a mysterious benefactor, the main character Murphey must go through a spider web of intrigue and danger that costs him much, but as long as God is on his side, there is strength and peace to get through anything the World tries to throw at him (and us).<br />For those of you who might not remember about the serpent headed pole, let me explain.  While there is no scripture for the following explaination, any good literature (i.e. Babylon Rising in this instance) tends to take the truth of the Bible and then imagine &quot;what ifs&quot;.  This item ties into the time of Daniel when he and the other Jews were forced to become slaves of the Babylonian empire by punishment from God to the Jews for their turning their backs on God.  Of course, if you know your Bible history and theology, just like everything God does, there was a reason and there was good that came out of this enslavement.<br />First off, this is not a Left Behind book, in that while it goes through both Biblical history and Biblical prophecies, this doesn't work like the LB books in that there isn't a &quot;prophecy&quot; by &quot;prophecy&quot; score card.  A lot of leway was placed into this series.  From what I know, seeing the website, this series will lead up to the Rapture (Pre-Trib rapture).  However, I do not know if you will be seeing some of the vilains from the LB series.<br />Secondly, to understand where T LaHaye is going with this series, you do need some basic understanding of both the books of Moses and their histories, and with the book of Daniel.  Now there wont be any quizes at the end of each chapter, but if you are like me, and you take the Bible literally, then you wont find the adventure of this book too off the deep end.  In fact, if you are a literal-Bible believing Christian, you almost have to welcome the fascination of what TL is doing with his new series.<br />With those two thoughts in mind, I'd like to give some of my thoughts about the book as a whole.  I find it an excellent book, I realize that its no Indiana Jones in point blank action, nor is it literally fantastique like oh say the League of the Extraordinary Gentlemen.  Still, the writing is clear cut, the flow from one chapter to the next is soothing and exciting both at the same time.  Soothing in that there is a good transition from one chapter to the next, and exciting because it circulates the actions of the main characters and suporting characters to the point that you begin a pinwheel of anticipation to see how it all will go together (though this is the first book in a series so I am speculating you wont see a clear cut ending by the end of the book for yourself).<br />On the down side, the main character and his wife, soon to be dead wife, in the first book of the series, are not discussed in great detail.  There is a lot to be said, though, in letting the reader gain an understanding by actions instead of merely shooting out paragraph to paragraph in describing minute detail because, in the air of the book being an exciting romp, details tend to boggly down the flow.  And as I stated earlier, there is a great flow.<br />Also, there are for some of you who may roll your eyes at conspiracy buffs, the understanding that the Christians are the main good guys and the nonChristians, out-to-get-any-Christian secret society, are the bad guy.  I myself have no problem with that, I may not believe that right now as I speak there is a clandestine group getting together behind PapaJones Pizza off of interstate 56, or in Scotland, or in NYC for that matter, I do however know that there is as the Bible clearly states a Spirit of the AntiChrist and Satan Himself that is in this world and has desciples that try to destroy whatGod Himself has to say through not just the Bible as Holy Scriptures, but through fine and Biblically literate Christians.<br />But to get back to the point, the book is a fine book for those who enjoy Christian novels.  There is action, there is proChristian actions, there is soul searching revelations, and there is firm Biblical ground to walk on.  I would highly suggest anyone who has enjoyed the Left Behind series should now read the Babylon Rising Series.what God Himself has to say through not just the Bible as Holy Scriptures, but through fine and Biblically literate Christians.  <br />But to get back to the point, the book is a fine book for those who enjoy Christian novels.  There is action, there is proChristian actions, there is soul searching revelations, and there is firm Biblical ground to walk on.  I would highly suggest anyone who has enjoyed the Left Behind series should now read the Babylon Rising Series.	2004-05-07
US	36727219	R1KQUGZV4VWAQ6	0452284201	41344406	The Prodigal Project: Book 1: Genesis	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Amazing.	I have to admit to one and all.  I rarely if ever like Christian fiction.  I find most of Christian fiction to be poorly written and poorly devised.  I did enjoy the Left Behind series at first, but when TL seemed to care nothing more than making money (as with the LB tshirts, the LB teddy bears, the LB coffee mugs, the LB gum, the LB life insurance ... etc etc etc.) I went away from the series.<br />The Prodigal Project, on the other hand, is amazing.  It is well written, the story is tight from one book to the next, and you have a passionate and realistic series of characters. I love how the story worked.  It was very insightful, and I hate to say this, but it was like reading a Stephen King book w/o cursing and sex.  It was just that good of a story, so now I am going to read the next book and I think I wont be disapointed.  And neither should you.	2003-09-30
US	36727219	R1BGFIUBMA3N12	0842384065	66971145	Soon: The Beginning of The End (Underground Zealot)	Books	5	19	41	N	N	It is a great read	I must say I got tired of the complexity of the Left Behind series.  Not that they are the most complicated novels to read, but adding on one novel after the next (going from 6 to 10 to finally 12 novels).  To be honest, I by this time wonder if TL just wants to make money from the LB series instead of preaching.<br />Not that I disagree with LB's theology.  I totally agree with premil theology because it is the most accurate and correct theology in comparison to the lack-of scriptural wisdom the other theologies have.  Furthermore, I agree with the belief that in these end of days, these novels can be used as great forms of witnessing.  Witnessing the truth toward what is happening while you even read this review...<br />Soon is a great novel, something that has pushed into the territories of James Bond and Tom Clancy.  I really like the structure of the novel, the realistic attitudes of those who hate Christianity because ... low and behold ... we see these anti Christian activists such as the ACLU, the Democrats as a whole, and so many other groups flaming the same hatred of the antiChristians in this book.<br />The storyline is well versed and I hope that this is the beginning of a series instead of an off shot story, though I could be wrong.  I just hope that, if it is a series, it won't be one of those 12 to a million books series.	2003-09-16
US	36727219	R1S7FSHDGX291U	0345448928	785575065	The Fifth Sorceress (Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 1)	Books	4	1	11	N	N	Ok Let me give a few thoughts.	To be honest, I am hardly a fan of the fantasy fiction.  I hate elves, dwarves, and all that garbage simply because (and while yes I play D&amp;D) I find most authors are tiresome and all try to be like the Lord of the Ring series.  I see many fussing and moaning at how bad the book is.  Yet it has to be a quality read for me to give it a thumbs up.<br />I love Terry Goodkind, he is a wonderful author.  To a lesser extent, I like Terry Brooks though he does try in many ways to create a Middle Earth kind of world and situation.<br />Robert Newcomb's books are wonderful, simply awesome readings.  The characters are realistic, they for me do not follow the steriotypical wizards, warriors, and villains.  Instead the situation of a fantasy world is brought into a new and delightful consideration.  The story itself is grand and pleasant to read, one jumps to read the next book.<br />I wish one and all to give it a try, at least the first book.  Try to step outside of JRRT's LotR's and into something new.	2003-08-20
US	36727219	R6Q6MCYV2CYRC	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Sometimes, Sometimes....	Sometimes a book touches the heart.  Such a book will have meaning in your life, probably at that POINT in your life.  Sometimes a book will touch your soul.  The book will whisper to the essence that grows in you through your life...<br />And still...and still...there are books that go deeper, deeper than the heart, deeper than the soul...To a place that I doubt anyone at any time has ever put a full noun to it.<br />The book It came into my life when I was very depressed as a student in middle school.  I read it in less than a week, I was a good student but I was alone.  In many ways, I understood all too well the idea of the Loser Club.  When I gained friends in high school, friends that are now distant memories to me sad to say...I understood It even more.  I understood the good and the bad of being a child.  It helped me define my own fears, my own hopes, my own anguishing, and my own desires...<br />Now as an adult.  It speaks even more to me.  I can now go full circle.  As a kid I understood the kids in the book.  I did not understand the adults as much, but I knew what King was talking about when he wrote the parts of the book about the adults.  Still.  The adult part eluded me because...of course...I was a kid.<br />As an adult I can fully enjoy both sides of the story now.  The kids and the adult.  I can understand what King was speaking about, what King was dreaming about with each and every word he wrote.<br />Although I love his Dark Tower series and considers the Dark Tower series right next to the Lord of the Ring series as being one of the best series in modern literature...It holds a place in my heart.  It tragedies and comedies, its horror and its speculation, fill me with awe...almost the same feelings I get when reading say the Gospels.<br />Read this book.  It is long.  Extremely long.  It has to be.  It is a circle.  Or maybe better...it is two lines parallel...the kids and the adults...aiming at the idea of confronting the basic fear that exists within each and every one of our hearts and souls.  That is why It is so amazing.  Because it goes past the heart and souls to the very roots...nay...the very seeds...that make us who we are as we are born, grow, grow up, grow old, and pass on to the afterlife.<br />Read this book.  You have to.hat exists within each and every one of our hearts and souls.  That is why It is so amazing.  Because it goes past the heart and souls to the very roots...nay...the very seeds...that make us who we are as we are born, grow, grow up, grow old, and pass on to the afterlife.  <br />Read this book.  You have to.	2003-06-27
US	36727219	R2GT7YJPKYD72G	0451194861	511631376	Wizard and Glass: Dark Tower IV	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A bit of a musing	A year ago, even two years ago when it came out, I would agree with a lot of the people here giving one or two stars.  I could not grasp Wizard and Glass. I loved the Dark Tower series, I adored Roland and consider him the height of what a real man is suppose to be (My kind of hero, Clint Eastwood kind of western hero).  But this book made me stop and I tossed it aside.  I figured this was to be the last of the Dark Tower books because Stephen King didn't seem to want to go any further (though he loved to tie in his other novels).<br />A few months back I heard the rumors then saw the truth, SK was indeed finishing the series over the next year and a half.  I knew that I had to read Wizard and Glass because I knew that the clues and the tales though of his youth were important to understand the next three finishing novels (Wolves to the Dark Tower book).<br />Something happened along the way in my life over the past two years. I grew up in some respect (I'm 31 now).  I gained a better impression toward my beliefs in God, my views toward the universe, etc.  I'm not living a dreamer's life, not in any way...but still...I know I changed...<br />And it is within that change that I was able to and able to read Wizard and Glass.  Its a hard book to read, a lot of things are disturbing a lot of things are mysterious...but.  Its like a key.  A key that will fit a particular lock in you (in me and anyone who tries to read it) but only at the right time in your life.  Like the Dark Tower itself, it spins a web around you, drawing you closer...the more you have grown up and the more that you've changed in life (at least in my perspective) the more you are able to understand what King was talking about and trying to describe to you the reader.<br />I hate to say this, because I could not have said it a year or two ago (even though I got the limited edition hard back I just could not read it past the start of the story which introduces the witch and Susan).  I love the book.  I can't put it down.  In two nights I have read up to page 300.<br />I will tell you truly.  It is a great door that leads you from the past quest of Roland (up to the end of the riding of the train) to the end quest (starting with the Wolves of Calla and going unto the book entitled The Dark Tower).<br />I am amazed by the series.  This series is one of the best series in western literature.  And yes, I have a history degree and enough classes in literature theories and creative writing to say that with a straight face.  Because it is true.  The Dark Tower series and The Lord of the Ring series are the two greatest series from the 20th/21st century.  In my mind and in my heart there is no question about that.  What both series do to my soul to my imagination, to my wonderlust and fantasies that whisper into the mind in those murky mornings when I dream...I just can't describe...<br />I know that you will probably hate the ending of this novel (I once tried to read just the ending but I couldn't help but get flustered by it).  It will NOT answer any questions toward the present situation of Roland and his friends.  But, but trust me, if you look at the story of Roland, you see how he had changed....a young man who had everything stripped away from him....Father...Mother...First True love...all because of the cancer that eats away at the Dark Tower...and one day, if I know how Stephen King works, all and everything will be held accountable for what happened to Roland and his world.  And I believe that in SK's words, Roland and his friends (those that survive the next two books) will make a stand.  And what a stand that will be...<br />I am willing to place all my bets on it...the End will be the finest ending for a writer's life in writing.  I know that just like the Stand and It, the final pages of the Dark Tower novel (we all know its really one big novel anyway) will make me cry out of shere passion that the work awakens in my heart.can't put it down.  In two nights I have read up to page 300.<br />I will tell you truly.  It is a great door that leads you from the past quest of Roland (up to the end of the riding of the train) to the end quest (starting with the Wolves of Calla and going unto the book entitled The Dark Tower).<br />I am amazed by the series.  This series is one of the best series in western literature.  And yes, I have a history degree and enough classes in literature theories and creative writing to say that with a straight face.  Because it is true.  The Dark Tower series and The Lord of the Ring series are the two greatest series from the 20th/21st century.  In my mind and in my heart there is no question about that.  What both series do to my soul to my imagination, to my wonderlust and fantasies that whisper into the mind in those murky mornings when I dream...I just can't describe...<br />I know that you will probably hate the ending of this novel (I once tried to read just the ending but I couldn't help but get flustered by it).  It will NOT answer any questions toward the present situation of Roland and his friends.  But, but trust me, if you look at the story of Roland, you see how he had changed....a young man who had everything stripped away from him....Father...Mother...First True love...all because of the cancer that eats away at the Dark Tower...and one day, if I know how Stephen King works, all and everything will be held accountable for what happened to Roland and his world.  And I believe that in SK's words, Roland and his friends (those that survive the next two books) will make a stand.  And what a stand that will be...<br />I am willing to place all my bets on it...the End will be the finest ending for a writer's life in writing.  I know that just like the Stand and It, the final pages of the Dark Tower novel (we all know its really one big novel anyway) will make me cry out of shere passion that the work awakens in my heart.	2003-06-22
US	36727219	R1RBSGQ4HH1R33	1578562503	913169831	More Jesus, Less Religion: Moving from Rules to Relationship	Books	4	6	11	N	N	An interesting book...	The book More Jesus Less Religion is a pretty good book.  Its not the best book, as some of what is being said has been said before in several other books I've read.  Still the authors give their own opinion and their own struggles (and stories of the struggles of others) as examples.  By this the reader is able to be more personable with the authors and what the authors want to express on their own journeys.<br />The book also has a firm foundation of the Bible, there are many references and quotes from the Bible that are used correctly.  I appreciate this I was kinda unsure if I wanted to read this book at first as I was a bit weary thinking this was one of those liberal Christians (who aren't really Christians) and Jesus Seminar kind of writings.  Luckily for me it wasn't and it was a true spirited Jesus believer sort of book.<br />Its one of many books out there, its not something that I will say &quot;You have to read&quot; but still it is a good book.  Nothing new, but still well written and well developed thoughts on being a Christian.	2003-06-20
US	36727219	R3C03TQ5J3K2L5	0802409423	432166994	Cries from the Cross: A Journey into the Heart of Jesus	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A true blessing of a book.	I picked up this book about a week ago.  The past few weeks have been hard on me and in life in general.  My relationship with God was, to say the least, unhinged.  There was a lot of disapointment on my part, a lot of that produced because...to be honest...I was letting my will rule me instead of bowing to God's will.<br />Yet this book helped me get past the depression on so many respects.  It is not a book for deep theological study, but it is a comfortable reading that helped me out while studying all the sayings of Christ Jesus on the Cross...<br />Those sayings are:<br />*\\"Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing\\" Luke 23:34<br />*\\"Today you will be with me in paradise\\" Luke 23:43<br />*\\"Dear woman, here is your son...here is your mother\\" John 19:26-27<br />*\\"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?\\" Matthew 27:46<br />*\\"I am thirsty\\" John 19:28<br />*\\"It is finished\\" John 19:30<br />*\\"Father, into our hands I commit my spirit\\" Luke 23:46<br />How Lutzer explains and examines each of these sayings of our Savior and Lord upon the cross really helped me realize just how much God cares for me and just how much...even if I dont feel worth in this world...on the grand scheme of things...I have humbled worth because Jesus died and rose on the third day for my salvation...so that I may be with the Lord God.<br />I suggest anyone and everyone to read this book.  It will truly help you grow closer to our Lord.	2003-06-15
US	36727219	R2T7NS9JG5JFBP	0786915501	633963573	Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook: Core Rulebook 1	Books	1	7	18	N	Y	Promises a lot...but...	For my background, I will let you know that I have enjoyed the world of roleplaying games for many years. I have still my white box set of D&D from Gary Gygax, I have my first edition stuff, second edition stuff, and now third edition books.  I have also roleplayed many other games such as Chivalry & Sorcery, RuneQuest, just to name a few.<br />When I started playing the new 3rd edition, I of course got on the bandwagon.  In my game shelves, I think I have most of the books that are published by WotC for D&D. I really love the rules, and I really enjoyed the games at first.<br />Yet some things cropped up along the way that have made me a bit shy back from 3rd edition to the point that I am roleplaying a 1st edition game now.  The rules themselves are great, do not get me wrong, I love the 3rd edition rules.  The concept of Prestige classes are awesome.  I like the fact that the new edition tosses away THACO, along with a few other things.  I also like how they simplified savings throw into just having three basic concepts of Savings Throws.  The classes are well described and have a lot to tinker around with so that even if two people have fighters, those fighters will be different from one another.<br />What has become a bothersome to me are some of the darker aspects of the game.  First, with the core rules themselves, the monsters are far darker in their apperance and construction.  They appear, not in the threatening but quant stock of the old Monster Manuals (from 1st to 2nd edition).  Instead they resemble something out of the White Wolf's World of Darkness (which I myself dont care for as a roleplaying gamer).  These monsters are more sinister, sadistic, and while that is not inheritantly bad, they seem to bleed into one another in a gothic bad guy sort of way.  By the time you get the book, Fiend Folio (after the first two monster manuals), the bad guys seem the same.  All being a gothic monster bad guy.<br />Secondly, there are the supporting manuals for the Core Rule books trying their best to be as evil as can be (such as this review being under the 3rd edition player's handbook).  Foremost in these there is the source book called the Book of Vile Darkness.  This book has necrophelia, rape, and other really really sickeningly bad things to examine.  Yes I know this book is to be used to show \\"these are bad guy traits\\".  Still, how could you as a Dungeon Master and you as a group of players really roleplay a rape scene?  Do you realize just how disturbed that would be, I myself have known a few women in real life who have been rapped.  That is not pretty, that is not interesting, that is just plain disturbing and evil.  Its not playable, neither is a whole lot of other things in that book.  So scrap that book, that is not needed.  Could a person really enjoy roleplaying a bad guy campaign with such choices? I know for a fact I would never ever allow a rape or child molestation, or what not to be roleplayed out in a game, like this book suggests.  That is just not good.<br />Third, and while is not that bad, it is still an annoyance.  The rulebooks themselves and then two sourcebooks have the game originally placed in the GreyHawk world setting, my personal favorite setting.  However after the first two sourcebooks, there has been the reprint of the Forgotten Realms world setting and that in itself has received a multitude of sourcebooks, all of them more or less good, depending upon which one you are using.  Still, I want more in line with the GreyHawk world.  I would love to see more sourcebooks about it and how it has changed up to date.<br />Fourth, as mentioned before but more shapped out here, there is the gothic concepts behind all the worlds.  From Forgotten Realms to Oriental Adventures, there are now very dark gothic, as in World of Darkness from White Wolf, aspects of the world system.  This is hard for me to swallow because 2nd edition was very high fantasy, as in the sets like City of Splendor and DragonMountain.  Yes Planescape was gothic, but it worked for that because of the nature of the Planescape worldsystem.  However with playing Forgotten realm, going from high fantasy of 2nd edition to suddenly \\"I'm a gothic like fighter, man\\" worldview of 3rd edition, I just dont know how to meseh them all together.  Not that I'm a fool of a Dungeon Master, but the way it has been laid out, what a headache!<br />Lastly, there is the D20 system in and of itself.  What angers me is that a multitude of other companies are jumping in on the open licence of D20.  There is the EverQuest books that use the D20 system.  There is the game Engel using the D20 system (which is interesting because the original company who published Engel did not use D20, but when it was published in American and such, it was transformed to D20).  There is also the Shattered Lands, Call of Cthulhu, etc. etc. etc.  COME ON companies.  Where is the originality in all that?  Where is the fun in learning a new set of rules, guidelines, and character creations?  Stop copying the D20 system and work your own way around in your games.  Or if you are already established under one rule system already (such as Call of Cthulhu), stick to that original rule system.<br />It is because of these and many other problems that I gave this book a one star.  Again, the rules themselves in the core books are fun and enjoyable, the modules that were published are also enjoyable (but not enough of them, however, which kinda stinks).  However despite the enjoyment of the rules of 3rd edition, the way the publishers and writers are trying to be as evil as they can be in their bad guys and as gothic as they can be in their world systems, perfect example is the new Forgotten Realms, the core rules are just not saved. I myself have gone back to 1st and 2nd edition.and Dragon Mountain.  Yes Planescape was gothic, but it worked for that because of the nature of the Planescape worldsystem.  However with playing Forgotten realm, going from high fantasy of 2nd edition to suddenly \\"I'm a gothic like fighter, man\\" worldview of 3rd edition, I just dont know how to meseh them all together.  Not that I'm a fool of a Dungeon Master, but the way it has been laid out, what a headache! <br />Lastly, there is the D20 system in and of itself.  What angers me is that a multitude of other companies are jumping in on the open licence of D20.  There is the EverQuest books that use the D20 system.  There is the game Engel using the D20 system (which is interesting because the original company who published Engel did not use D20, but when it was published in American and such, it was transformed to D20).  There is also the Shattered Lands, Call of Cthulhu, etc. etc. etc.  COME ON companies.  Where is the originality in all that?  Where is the fun in learning a new set of rules, guidelines, and character creations?  Stop copying the D20 system and work your own way around in your games.  Or if you are already established under one rule system already (such as Call of Cthulhu), stick to that original rule system.  <br />It is because of these and many other problems that I gave this book a one star.  Again, the rules themselves in the core books are fun and enjoyable, the modules that were published are also enjoyable (but not enough of them, however, which kinda stinks).  However despite the enjoyment of the rules of 3rd edition, the way the publishers and writers are trying to be as evil as they can be in their bad guys and as gothic as they can be in their world systems, perfect example is the new Forgotten Realms, the core rules are just not saved. I myself have gone back to 1st and 2nd edition.	2003-06-07
US	36727219	R29N7U3N1BPAZF	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	This is one of those kind of novels.	Sometimes something grabs you about a book. You are not sure what, you are not sure how. Somehow a writer just is able to captivate and create something that is awe inspiring. I remember the first time I heard whispers of the Gunslinger. This was during middle school and I had read so many of Stephen King's books by that time. Yet this one was not anywhere to be found. Yet long and hard I searched, thought of, dreamed of, this mysterious book called the Dark Tower: The Gunslinger.<br />Finally Plum came out with a trade paperback edition of this book. I got it RIGHT AWAY. I looked at the picture of the front. There, the man, Roland, the Gunslinger and that bird on his shoulder. I dont know how it caught me, but it did.<br />My parents and I got into the van and started back home, a fifteen to twenty minute drive. During those fifteen minutes I was silent, a ghost, in the back seat, reading the first part, the Gunslinger, of this novel (the novel itself is a collection of a group of short stories S. K. wrote for a magazine and then was published as a limited edition hardback by Donald M. Grant publishing company).<br />\\"The Man in Black fled across the desert and the gunslinger followed.\\"<br />That was/is the first sentence of this novel. It was like reading the Bible for me (as a Strong Christian, I am one who will hang on every word or at least strive to as I read the Bible), it was that captivating, it took me into a world that I had only fantasized about. Of course unlike the Bible, this book is fiction (which is too bad since after reading this book my friends and I started a Gunslinger reading club and we all wanted to be like Roland). A fantasy realm that is in my opinion just as good as the Lord of the Ring series. In fact, I will stand up and say very proudly and with much ernest that out of the whole 20th century, the only two series that are worth anything are LotR and the Dark Tower.<br />King and Tolkien are the two masters of the 20th century literature. And I would fight the hounds of hell against anyone who thinks otherwise.<br />Stephen King created a universe, that slowly but surely was connected to most of S.K.s other books. The Gunslinger is probably the greatest Male figure in all of literature of the fantastique. He is strong, but he is a romantic; he is intense, but he knows how to crack a smile; he is heroic, but he is not without his achiles heel. This is how a man should be, in life and in soul.<br />If you want to read a book that with captivate you, that will bring you into a ghostly realm of action, adventure, romance, betrayal, theology, philosophy...then read the Dark Tower series, starting with this book. Your breath will be taken away and you will be launched into one of the second greatest epics known to literature.<br />I will let you know that Stephen King has come out with a redone version of the Gunslinger.  You can keep or take it, I really love it, but I also have to say...I love the haunting mystique of the original version that I got so long ago.  The new version is somewhat changed here and there, there is a new way of introducing the first chapter of the first part.  There are new revisions of characters.  Still...like I said...that one version so long ago...was what really captured me and made me see that the Gunslinger is the greatest novel of the 20th century.. And I would fight the hounds of hell against anyone who thinks otherwise.<br />Stephen King created a universe, that slowly but surely was connected to most of S.K.s other books. The Gunslinger is probably the greatest Male figure in all of literature of the fantastique. He is strong, but he is a romantic; he is intense, but he knows how to crack a smile; he is heroic, but he is not without his achiles heel. This is how a man should be, in life and in soul.<br />If you want to read a book that with captivate you, that will bring you into a ghostly realm of action, adventure, romance, betrayal, theology, philosophy...then read the Dark Tower series, starting with this book. Your breath will be taken away and you will be launched into one of the second greatest epics known to literature.<br />I will let you know that Stephen King has come out with a redone version of the Gunslinger.  You can keep or take it, I really love it, but I also have to say...I love the haunting mystique of the original version that I got so long ago.  The new version is somewhat changed here and there, there is a new way of introducing the first chapter of the first part.  There are new revisions of characters.  Still...like I said...that one version so long ago...was what really captured me and made me see that the Gunslinger is the greatest novel of the 20th century.	2003-06-02
US	36727219	R1K5Q16ZZ3HSCW	0842355812	372818294	Why Believe? Exploring the Honest Questions of Seekers	Books	5	56	58	N	N	This is a truly WONDERFUL book, buy it!	Christian books are a dime a dozen, as the cliche goes.  Go to any bookstore, especially Christian bookstores, and you see a multitude saying \\"this about God\\" or \\"that about God.\\"  Yet most of them, while they have a good heart to them, dont click with me.  I'm very narrow in what I want in a Christian book.  I want intelligence.  I want feeling.  I want honesty.  I want revelation.  I want a book that will speak to my heart and soul and help me through my heart and soul to continue on fighting the day by day struggle we all go through.  I want one that will help me think and will help me grow as a Christian.<br />Some of the books in the past that have helped me and have lived up to my expectations are Mere Christianity, Sacred Romance, No Wonder They Call Him the Savior, How Now Shall We Live, Messy Spirituality, and Disapointment with God.  Yes that's quite a list, but considering the fact that a multitude of books come out each month...well...you get my drift...<br />Now I can with satisfaction add Why Believe by Greg Laurie to that list.  He does not pull the punches, he does not give false expectations.  He speaks from one seeker of the Lord to another.  He looks at many of the questions you might ask and I know I ask at times.  He then examines them, not just with his own thoughts but with a firm backing by the Bible.  He doesn't just throw a verse or a psalm here and there, no, he gets right into the very thick of what the Bible...the TRUE word of God...says.<br />Even more this is not what one would call a giant book.  It doesn't have to have hundreds and hundreds of pages to explain itself.  Its actually tight, very specific, and very productive.  I suggest anyone who has a willingness to ask the questions, to see that the Bible is the word of God and that salvation is by the Cross...only by the Cross...you will find a life jacket a life savior a life preserver here waiting for you.	2003-05-27
US	36727219	R27GD1T76M8IUJ	1581341210	372429364	The Second Coming: Signs of Christ's Return and the End of the Age	Books	5	6	10	N	N	This is a good book	Well let's just say that this book along with many other credible authors of the end times philosophy are right on the ball.  Right on the money.  This book is clear, easy to read, and well worth the time.  It began with WWI's end where the major powers wanted to form globalization (which will later be used by the AntiChrist), to the return of the Jewish state (and yes Israel belongs to the Jews, not the Muslims), to the antiChristian movements and the \\"liberal\\" Christian movements (both aiming at taking away the truth of the Bible), to what is happening right now in Iraq and with Iraq's liberation will bring forth the physical construction of Babylon (and yes S. H. has already started building of Babylon so its only time now).<br />And about that question toward \\"this generation won't pass...\\" was talking about not the generation of Jesus's time, but the generation of the Israelits during the end time.  Any intelligent reader and believer of the Bible would see this.<br />I would also highly suggest you reading anything by Mark Hitchcock who is a wonderful Christian and prophet teacher.	2003-03-24
US	36727219	R25F32B6TRPQTS	031027771X	530273080	The Late Great Planet Earth	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Concerning ol' Hal	Well.  I would really really like to give this a bunch more stars. I would really like to say that the book is credible.  I would really like to say that all students of prophecy should read it.<br />But I can't.  I just can't.<br />Its not that I am against evangelical prophecy studies because I am all for that.  I am a premalinialist, I am in agreement with looking and reading the Bible for what it is, for every word to be true and specific (such as the truth that Jesus did die and ressurect for our sins).<br />Still, this book, is not worth using the paper as scrap paper.  Post it notes are much better.<br />If I were to list all the faults with this book, then the max 1000 words would be used up.  Got it?  Just know that while it is an interesting oddity to prophecy teachings in the 20th century, its about as wrong as saying you understand prophecy by watching the Omen series or Christianity by watching Monty Python.<br />Anyway.  Instead of giving you all the faults of this book, I would like to direct your attention to other authors who are much more credible.  I would suggest to you to read the works of Mark Hitchock, such as 101 Answers...End Times.  This is a credible work, heck, all his books are very credible and well thought out.  I would also suggest that you read Max Lucado When Christ Comes.  Also there are several really good John Hagee books.<br />Still with prophecy you the reader have to make your own conclusions, but I myself feel strongly about these authors I have mentioned and consider them credible.  I hope you enjoy reading them!	2003-03-24
US	36727219	R3MLPI5SC9II62	0842370889	269502799	The New Tolerance: How a cultural movement threatens to destroy you, your faith, and your children	Books	5	18	30	N	N	The Problem with Tolerance	There is tolerance and then there is tolerance.  Jesus taught you and I, him being the only and true Son of God, to love the sinner and hate the sin...within us and within our brothers and sisters.  Yes, there are many extreme forces of evil in this world from homosexuality to adultery from racism to abortion.  It is not good to be a part of these sins, but the person itself cannot and should not be tossed away.<br />To be tolerant is to give your brother or sister a loving hand.  No matter what, always love one another, that is the message of Jesus.  Yet there are many \\"tolerant\\" fanatics out there saying that Jesus is just like Buddhism and whatever other religious idols...which Jesus is not.  Jesus is the only way to go to God because of what he did on the cross and him rising on the third day.  Also, the tolerant fantatics say it is ok to be homosexual, but the Bible clearly says it is not good at all to be homosexual.  Still, as a Christian, one should still love the person while standing true in saying that that lifestyle is not in any way shape or form a good choice.  I myself have homosexual friends but I do not hate them or turn their back on them, on the other hand I dont tell them that I feel its ok to do what they are doing.  Loving one another doesn't mean you have a blinds eye for what they are doing especially if what they are doing is totally wrong and against what the Bible states is wrong (homosexuality, abortion, etc. etc.).<br />Loving one another is still the prime importance.  Give love to others, show love for others, while still maintaining a Christian worldview is what this  book and books like it are about.	2003-03-21
US	36727219	R3FWLBJX6R5S8W	0935696016	318465893	Official Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Players Handbook	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	Gary Gygax is the Master.	I have been roleplaying for years, many many years.  I have seen games come and go, I have seen the white box set of G. Gygax.  I have seen games like RuneQuest, Warhammer FRP, MERP, Torg, so many games.<br />Yet this is the real start, the real truth of how great roleplaying can be.  You might find 3rd edition more intricate, more things to do in it, but the original AD&amp;D players manual and DM manual were the best in my humble opinion.<br />This book shows how to create characters quick and just start roaming the worlds that the DM makes.  GET IT.  and the Dungeon Master Manual by G. Gygax.  You will love it better than almost anything else the roleplaying world has to offer.	2003-03-19
US	36727219	R23JO6Z7DVAAI6	0935696024	822581388	Dungeon Masters Guide	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	Play 3rd edition all you want...but this is the best...	Yes I roleplay 3rd edition, but I know that this ... the 1st edition AD&D is the best there is.  The rules are simple but strong enough to provide hours and hours of games.  I would suggest that you get this and the player's manual (and the Monster manual 1 and 2 from G.G.).  Have hours of fun in this game.<br />What's good about this game manual for DMs is that there are so many suggestions, explorations of the different faces of the game, enough to make the DM ready for most anything the players might throw at him.	2003-03-19
US	36727219	R3LO6N0W5T77TE	0802452167	849929264	The Cross of Christ (A Life Essentials Book)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One doesn't have to read a major book on theology...	... This book is a simple book, it doesn't have a lot of highly technical words that you have to have a BA or maybe a PhD to understand.  No the average Joe or Jane can pick up this book, read it, and realize how much God loves us, how much God strives to open our eyes to the salvation and redemption he offers us by sending His Son to the Cross to die for us.<br />I would highly suggest that you the reader of this review get this book.  It is not expensive, BUT it will give you so much help and ease whatever pains that you have inside.  I know it has helped me with much of mine.	2003-03-19
US	36727219	R1FQINTCPOZY5E	0060609168	48611944	Meeting Jesus Again for the First Time: The Historical Jesus & the Heart of Contemporary Faith	Books	1	26	87	N	N	A sad book but something that is prevelant in this society	Well this is yet another one of the \\"liberal Christian groups\\" kind of writings and works that confuse the masses and take them away from the true Freedom that the Bible speaks of by Jesus being the One and Only True Son of God and through virgin birth, life, ressurection, can bring salvation...and is the only one who can bring salvation...<br />This book and many of its ilk say its ok to be Christian but you gotta believe that \\"most\\" of the Bible is false. If most of the Bible is false...if youre not going to believe Jesus is who he says he was in the Bible...then you have no right to call yourself a Christian or a follower of Jesus. This book is \\"comfortable\\" for those who want to be \\"comfortable\\" in their political correctness. Oh yes its ok to be homosexual, to have abortion, to not believe in the deity of Christ...that there's no such thing as the Devil or Sin...as long as youre all comfortable. That's what counts in the liberal Christian church of Borg and his cronies. Not that I am a hater of gays, not that I am someone who destroys abortion clinics---no that's not true Christianity. To be Christian you love the sinner but hate the sin itself. You dont judge or throw hate around but you also make a firm foundation of Biblical life and living. I mean I have had friends who are both gays and have had abortions, they know I disagree with those choices but I still am there to help them as a friend.<br />Books like this one and those spoken about in the Jesus Seminar and giving backing to the Jesus Seminar are dangerous to those who might be brought to the fold of God.  These kind of beliefs say that Jesus is just a Man, was a \\"holy teacher\\" but not perfection as the Gospels like to say.  Of course they love the Gnostic books because the Gnostic books often spout out New Age beliefs and utter nonesense (if they were really that important they would have been a part of the Bible people!).  Yes I have read Borg's works, and I understand that he truly feels and believes he is speaking true spirituality.  But this kind of blindness is the most dangerous as his heart is in the right place in wanting to share his spirituality but his spirituality is fraud and filled with holes because they are not found on straight Biblical truth of createionism, on Jesus being the Son of God, of miracles and ressurection.<br />To be a Christian is to be free by way of the blood of Christ. To be a real Christian you must believe not just because the Bible says or your Minister/Priest says its so...but because you have come to that intellectual and intelligent decision by weighing the evidence. Read books like How Now Shall I Live by C. Colson; read books like What if Jesus Had Never Been Born and Why I Believe both by D. James Kennedy. Books such as that show true Biblical truth.<br />People like Borg, sad to say, may have their heart in the right place but they are the false wolves and the false teachers and AntiChrists that Jesus warned us about in the Bible.<br />The Jesus Seminar is a joke. I mean really all they said that Jesus \\"really said\\" in the Bible was \\"unto Caeser Caeser's and to God God's\\"...well the Bible is truth. There is firm evidence supporting every single part of the New Testament. Archeology, history, etc. Dont believe me? Pick up J. Vernon McGee's Thru the Bible series books and McDowell's New Evidence that Demands a Verdict.<br />Hate to say this, but the Bible is 100% true, from Genesis to Revelation. The Bible is the 100% word of God, from creationism to the final judgment of the sinners at the White Throne to the land of joy that will be a blessed gift to all who believe in God through Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.  If you dont believe it, but you say your a Christian, sorry but you are only fooling yourselves.  If you do call yourself a Christian but believe in Sophia, believe that Jesus was only a Man (I would suggest then that you read C. S. Lewis's work to correct you on that), then you have let Satan blind you.  To be a true Christian you must believe what the Bible says. You must be born again, not of the flesh but of the spirit, and that you must not allow yourself to be lead astray by people like Borg and the Jesus Seminar.<br />Just a note toward the person who mentioned that Jesus is the son of Sophia.  That is goddess worship and thus Satanism.  Sophia is a politically correst and New Age/Goddess worshipping adaption and \\"view\\" of the Bible.  It has no clearness in what the Bible is.  Wisdom as a \\"her\\" is being used as a proverb in itself.  It is not as a \\"manifestation of a personality\\".  Jesus is the Son of God, and Jesus is God...all man (all man in perfection as the second Adam) and all God.  There is no manifestation of Goddesses or Goddess teachings in the Bible, except those mentioned as demon worship by those enemies of God and God's people.<br />Some books that I do suggest you read on the other hand are the following:<br />*Josh McDowell's The New Evidence that Demands a Verdict<br />*D. James Kennedy's Why I Believe & What if Jesus had Never been Born<br />*Morris's The Long War Against God<br />*Greg Laurie's Why Believe?<br />*Erwin W. Lutzer's Cries from the Crossu.  To be a true Christian you must believe what the Bible says. You must be born again, not of the flesh but of the spirit, and that you must not allow yourself to be lead astray by people like Borg and the Jesus Seminar.  <br />Just a note toward the person who mentioned that Jesus is the son of Sophia.  That is goddess worship and thus Satanism.  Sophia is a politically correst and New Age/Goddess worshipping adaption and \\"view\\" of the Bible.  It has no clearness in what the Bible is.  Wisdom as a \\"her\\" is being used as a proverb in itself.  It is not as a \\"manifestation of a personality\\".  Jesus is the Son of God, and Jesus is God...all man (all man in perfection as the second Adam) and all God.  There is no manifestation of Goddesses or Goddess teachings in the Bible, except those mentioned as demon worship by those enemies of God and God's people.<br />Some books that I do suggest you read on the other hand are the following:<br />*Josh McDowell's The New Evidence that Demands a Verdict<BR>*D. James Kennedy's Why I Believe & What if Jesus had Never been Born<BR>*Morris's The Long War Against God<BR>*Greg Laurie's Why Believe?<BR>*Erwin W. Lutzer's Cries from the Cross	2003-03-11
US	36727219	R3TKYE1UDZQP3U	0935696229	650193882	Deities & Demigods: Cyclopedia of Gods and Heroes from Myth and Legend (Advanced Dungeons and Dragons)	Books	5	28	33	N	N	This is a good book	While some might insist that it is somewhat insulting to faiths of the world, one should look at it not for the statistics that it gives, but what the D&D world/campaign was trying to do.  The people at TSR, when they were fun and enjoyable under the guidance of Gary Gygax one of the best writers in the world of gaming...wanted...IMO...to show what deities were like in this world and how they might interact with the fantasy world of gaming, giving examples of how war gods, love goddesses, and those like can mean for the player characters.  THIS IS NOT suppose to be a tell all on all the cultures and religions of the world.  Hardly.  If you want that, I would suggest you read the works of Joseph Campbell.  If you want to look for something real quick to see how it might fit in to your campaign, this is for you.  I love it myself.	2003-03-02
