US	36747763	R2JL1M136XPERO	0060617519	202041730	The Long Loneliness: The Autobiography of the Legendary Catholic Social Activist	Books	5	138	141	N	N	Enriching Exploration of the Discovery of Faith	\\"The Long Loneliness,\\" is one of the most enriching testimonies of an individual's search and discovery of faith that I have ever read, although I found the first 60 pages a bit slow (about her background and coming of age). I am very happy I persevered, because it only got better and more inspirational, as she began to perceive glimpses of God and tried to learn how best to follow Him.<br /><br />Dorothy Day was a journalist who lived in the early 1900s and died in 1980. She was raised an agnostic. Her family did not practice a religion. Early in her life she attended churches with neighbors, and loved the feeling of communal worship, but felt discouraged by so many people who attended church only on Sunday and thought that was the end of their religious obligation to others.<br /><br />An early memory that had a great impact on her was an earthquake during her childhood, in which the families who retained their houses opened their homes to those who had lost theirs, and the community banded together to help each other in brotherly love. She lived her life searching for this sense of community. During her college years she began an activist involved in political causes such as women's voting rights, and labor rights for women and children, and had sympathies with communist organizations, that, from her perspective, seemed to assist the needs of the poor more than any Christian church.<br /><br />This is a conversion story, much similar to Thomas Merton's \\"Seven Story Mountain,\\" but which inspired me much more than his good work. She felt an incredible need to worship God, so much that she believes that human beings have a deep psychological need to worship and when their devotion is misplaced on humans rather than the divine, it is a recipe for disaster. The First World War and the Great Depression was the background for her conversion. She worked as a nurse during the War and began attending church with a colleague, but latter returned to writing in an environment where there was less church, but she continued to pray.<br /><br />She had a common law marriage with a man, whom she loved dearly, but when she became pregnant, she decided that she must have the child baptized so that her daughter would not experience the lack of spiritual support that caused her so much confusion and soul searching. She felt such great love durign her preganancy, that she believed she required a supernatural channel to channel the love. She had hoped to enter a church with her partner as a marriage before God, but he was adamantly opposed to religion and perceived it as a form of imperialism. She left him with her daughter, in order to follow a life that she believed would be pleasing to God. It was not an easy situation for her, as she had hoped for a traditional life, and being a single mother is never and easy vocation in any time period. The anguish she described when she reached the conclusion of what she must do was only a page but it moved me to tears. The situation that the decision evoked was not easy, but reaching the decision for her seemed to be a simple matter, because of her great faith. She wrote about it as occasionally God offers s the same proposition to us that he gave Abraham; to sacrifice something we love in pursuit of Him, whom we should love above all created things. She worte too, that staying with him felt natural, but that she was aspiring for a supernatural life, which requires different considerations when making decisions. I would like to hope that I would have the same faith and courage in a similar situation, but I don't know.<br /><br />The time period following her separation was difficult for her, and she experienced loneliness, as she searched to discover what would be her niche in the world, according to God's plan. She believed that the antidote for loneliness is involvement in community life. She started the \\"Catholic Worker\\" with Peter Maurin (who she felt was sent to her by God as a response to her prayers for guidance in her vocational quest), a paper which reported about the injustices confronted by the poor and that presented articles of helpful advice for struggling families. The paper is still in existence.<br /><br />She also started a hospitality house that offered food and shelter to those who need it, and a space where people can find a voice. Eventually a chain of such houses grew and now are operating not only across the US, but across the world. Some became retreat centers. Day's life is a perfect testimony of an individual discovering God's love and learning to return the love with faith, not only through worship to God, but also through offering love and help to others.<br /><br />This is a great book for people seeking to understand what is faith and how does it move people, and a great book for people dealing with difficult situations in their lives when they are seeking to find what it is that they are meant to do with their lives. I recommend her story to every one.e to her prayers for guidance in her vocational quest), a paper which reported about the injustices confronted by the poor and that presented articles of helpful advice for struggling families. The paper is still in existence.  <br /> <br />She also started a hospitality house that offered food and shelter to those who need it, and a space where people can find a voice. Eventually a chain of such houses grew and now are operating not only across the US, but across the world. Some became retreat centers. Day's life is a perfect testimony of an individual discovering God's love and learning to return the love with faith, not only through worship to God, but also through offering love and help to others.   <br /> <br />This is a great book for people seeking to understand what is faith and how does it move people, and a great book for people dealing with difficult situations in their lives when they are seeking to find what it is that they are meant to do with their lives. I recommend her story to every one. <br />	2005-06-07
US	36747763	R3F8B8UTL8FMBY	1930084013	390856412	Beginning Apologetics 2: How to Answer Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Informed Outline of Jehovah Witness  and Mormon Beliefs	Once again I am amazed that Amazon allowed people who obviously did not read a book post negative reviews on it. If they had read the book, they would have realized that \\"Beginning Apologetics 2: How to Answer Jehovah Witnesses and Mormons,\\" is not an attack on people of this faith, but rather an outline of the doctrinal ideas that these religions have that contradict basic teachings of Christianity, and how their understanding of history.  <br /> <br />As Christians, we are exhorted to demonstrate hospitality to strangers, because we never know when they might be angels in disguise. This does not only mean hospitality in the traditional sense of opening our houses for overnight guests, but sharing our lives and our time generously with other who may have need for it. I have lived in many cities, and even when living in locations where I never saw a worship center for Jehovah witnesses, I have had them knock on my door, trying to proselytize me. So the advise recommended by one reviewer that \\"if you don't want to talk to them, then tell them not to come\\" aside from being uncharitable, is not very practical advice, if you have no idea from where they come. <br /> <br />Most people are hesitant to enter into dialogues about faith, because they take a lot of issues of their religious practice on faith, which is admirable, but we are exhorted in the Bible to offer guidance to the misinformed. Engaging in a dialogue with an Adventist group, such as the Jehovah Witnesses, Mormons, or the Church of Latter Days Saints, can be daunting, because many of the claims they make are so antithetical to basic Christian beliefs, and they uses such and unusual translation of the Bible, that it shocks the  average Christian who has not heard these ideas. For instance, they believe Jesus was entirely a God and not man, which contradicts the idea inherent in all Abrahamic faiths that we are commanded to worship only one God, and represents an extension of the Arian heresy. And they believe that only 144,000 people will be in heave, and that all those people were chosen before 1935 and it does not include any person from the Old Testament; implying that the founders of these religions that started in the 1800s (although they believe that they were some part of an underground movement that has ties from the beginning of Christianity; the book outlines this argument too) are holier than prophets like Abraham and Moses.   <br /> <br />Adventists gained followings in the 1800s, because charismatic leaders who claimed to have received personal revelations thought that the world was about to end. All the projected dates for the world's ending have long since passed, but people still find credence in these faiths. This book provides excerpts from the religious texts that the Adventists use and teaches readers how to refute their allegations in apologetic discussions by using their own texts, which are very different interpretations than what is readable in mainstream Bibles. Yes, the allegations could easily be refuted using main stream Bibles, but then that might be more difficult to argue the validation for your edition over theirs. It also provides a detailed history of Adventist movements. Although the book is written by a Catholic, its arguments are helpful to any Christian, because in the major differences between Adventist beliefs and mainstream Christian apologetics, represent a huge deviation between basic Christian doctrine that Catholics and non-Catholics hold as true, on the one hand, and what the Adventist believes on the other hand.  I recommend that every mainstream Christian buy this incredible affordable book, read it, and the next time an Adventist knocks on your door, offer them Christian hospitality and a charitable dialogue.	2005-06-07
US	36747763	R2PVGR2LD8X0FD	0312929722	277002839	Miracles Do Happen: The Inspiring True Story Of The World-Famous Healer And The Reality Of Miracles	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Great Testomony of the Power of Faith	\\"Miracles Do Happen\\" is an excellent testimony to the power of faith. Briege Mckenna developed sever arthritis as a young adult, which confined her to a wheel chair. When attending a Catholic Charismatic prayer services, she was miraculously healed. Allegedly, she received a private revelation, in which God asked her to be a healer to others.  She debated whether the message was really from God, as she was a member of a contemplative community, but after a period of discernment and a series of signs, she lost all doubt.  <br /> <br />\\"Miracles do Happen\\" is an autobiography of Sr. Briege's healing ministry. She prays for people and many have been healed of spiritual and physical pains and diseases. The book is full of stories and photos of people, whom she has encountered during her journey and many of whom were healed by prayers. It is easy to be skeptical of spiritual healers today, but unlike many charlatans in the field, Sr. Briege does not accept money or promote products or methodology for financial gains. The book is great for renewing faith in prayer, and offers much guidance and learning to discern God's voice in your life through prayer. Sr.Briege herself spends an estimated two-three hours in prayer each day, and write about the types of Christian spiritual practices which have been spiritually edifying for her.   <br /> <br />This is a simple book about the role that prayer and faith has played in her life, and in the lives of others whom she has had the fortune to know, during her religious life and is not bogged down in theological explanations or issues related to debatable doctrines. It is written simply as an intimate conversation, as often is the case of works from saints, and when one reads it one has to wonder if they are living in a very special life time of a woman who might be recognized as a saint in the future.   <br />	2005-06-07
US	36747763	R2JXA3TTR3Q5CM	0972844708	894280632	101 Inspirational Stories of the Rosary	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Wonderful tool for energizing faith in prayer	The rosary is a prayerful devotion that is more than a millennium old. It comprises praying specific prayers while meditating on events from the New Testament.   <br /> <br />\\"101 Inspirational Stories of the Rosary\\" was written for \\"the year of the rosary,\\" 2003. The book comprises a collection of short personal tales from average people all over the world, who believe that they have received help from God from challenges in their life or assistance for those they love, through praying the rosary. Many of the stories are remarkable miracles of healings from mortal illnesses and saving during accidents or on the battlefield. Others are testimonies of incidences of personal inner healing experienced or witnessed. The stories are short and can easily be read as uplifting food for meditation and encouragement before going to bed, or for when the reader wants a quit does of faith and hope during a hectic day. The chapters of the book are peppered with biblical quotes and quotes from the ages expressing people's belief in the power of the rosary, such as Mother Theresa, Patrick Peyton, and Lucia, of the children who allegedly received messages about the rosary at Fatima, and many others who have been recognized as saints. The writing is easily accessible to people of all ages. <br />  <br />The book also includes an extensive appendix to answer any questions the reader might have about the rosary; its history and promises associated with recourse of the rosary; directions on how to pray with one; a list of web site that provide additional information, including one operated by the author ([...] , which has more chapters from the book available for viewing); instructions for making your own rosary; and encyclical published during the year of the rosary (one of the last documents drafted by Pope John Paul II).  The is a great gift to people who are struggling with spiritual dryness, spiritual seekers looking for new ways to pray, or people who recently return to or enter achurch. I have found it to be an immeasurable source of encouragement during difficult times, for helping me retain my faith and strongly recommend it to any one open to learning about powerful Christian prayer.	2005-05-21
US	36747763	R4PMUM9UYMKWX	0895553031	704331215	Eucharistic Miracles and Eucharistic Phenomena in the Lives of the Saints	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Stong Evidence for Real Presence	Joan Carroll Cruz's book \\"Eucharistic Miracles\\" comprises a collection of relatively short stories about alleged miracles involving the Eucharist, and scientific documentation that was available to support many of the miracles. Even when the miracles occurred thousands of years ago, the scientific research that was conducted to substantiate the miracles occurred fairly recently (within the past few decades).     This is a great book to strengthen the faith of children approaching adolescence, rejuvenate faith of those experiencing spiritual dryness, or just good food for thought for spiritual seekers who enjoy reading stories about the unexplained that have been attributed to God. The stories are relatively short, and would be great for reading in religious education classes. I only wish that Cruz updated the book for the Year of Eucharist, as the most recent miracle she documented occurred in the 1970s. People looking for more recent stories, that also include proof, and better yet personal testimony, should check out Briege McKenna's \\"Miracles Do Happen.\\"	2005-05-21
US	36747763	RQWD0MIAIOJNW	0972844716	158626627	201 Inspirational Stories of the Eucharist	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Comforting stories of healing from the Eucharist	\\"201 Inspirational Stories of the Eucharist,\\" by Sr. Patricia Proctor, is a collection of short stories written by normal people from all over the world, who believe that they have experienced healing either through praying before the Blessed Sacrament and/or through the reception of communion. Many of the stories are only a page long and can easily be read before bed or during a quick break in the day, when the reader is seeking uplifting news about faith for encouragement during a trying day. Several of the stories are followed by quotes from one of Pope John Paul IIs last encyclicals on the Eucharist, which was prepared for 2004 - 2005, which he named the Year of the Eucharist with the hope that the designation would encourage more people to learn about the power of prayer before the Eucharist. The stories are written as simple conversations and easily accessible to any reader.     Personally, I have found praying in front of a tabernacle at a church to offer me more peace from anxious time, than praying at any other place. However, I do not feel that the miracles presented in the stories may be as persuasive to a non-believer, as the stories that Patricia Proctor has compiled for her \\"101 Inspirational Stories of the Rosary\\" book. Most of the stories in her \\"201 Inspirational Stories of the Eucharist\\" are of inner healing that people have experienced and faith they felt renewed by praying in front of the Eucharist and/or through the reception of communion as a sacrament. If you are looking for a book about miracles attributed to the Eucharist and/or communion, to help rejuvenate the faith of an adolescent, or if you are searching for really extraordinary stories that have been scientifically proven to help your own faith during a period of dryness, or if you are just a curious seeker who enjoys reading stories of the unexplained that have been attributed to God's intervention, you might fight Briege McKenna's \\"Miracles do Happen\\" or Joan Carroll Cruz's book \\"Eucharistic Miracles,\\" more fulfilling books for you needs.    The book includes an great appendix which includes Pope John Paul II's entire encyclical letter on the Eucharist and a selection of prayers for communion by Rev. Lawrence G. Lovasik that was originally published as a separate book. More information on the book and the Eucharist can also be found on the author's web site (...)	2005-05-21
US	36747763	R1K2ZUIHGQUKKV	0877936765	856104404	Healing	Books	5	94	95	N	N	Authoritative Book on Christian Healing by Prayer	Simply stated, \\"Healing\\" by Francis MacNutt may be the best work on healing through prayer ever written. The book includes an overview of the history of praying for healing in Christianity. That in itself is worth the price of the book. He traces how healing began as a central obligation of early Christian communities, but when Christianity became legal under Constantine, many of the precepts of pagan Roman society, such as those advocated by stoics, which deemed suffering as redemptive, infiltrated Christian theology and practice. People prayed less and less for healing as time progressed and saw their suffering as something they should endure without questions, for redemptive reasons. Also the role of the laity changed much once Christianity became legalized. Priests became more powerful and certain practices that were once considered the responsibility of all, such as praying for the sick (which is handed down in the Catholic tradition as the anointing of the sick) were no longer responsibilities that any Christian should perform, but relegated to those ordained. <br /> <br />MacNutt's book includes many personal testimonies of people who were healed through services at which he participated. Some of the stories come from letters. Some of the stories are his personal experiences and situations that he witnessed. All areas of healing are included: inner healings from emotional wounds, physical healings and deliverance is also a topic the book covers. The book includes sample prayers used from various Christian faiths, or elements that should be incorporated into prayers, if the reader has an aversion for formal prayers. Any person may pray for healings, but the book believes as the Bible states, that healing is a gift given by the Holy Spirit and some people may be more effective in their prayers than others. And while healing may occur through prayer alone, the book does not recommend avoiding medical resources available to assist people's health and recovery because these too are gifts we are given and should use. It is true too, that some times illness does have a purpose in life, and that healing is not always God's will for every occasion. The book also offers guidelines for starting a healing ministry and assembling a team. <br /> <br />The book looks at the way different beliefs in Christianity heal those who have faith in them. It does not say that one belief is more powerful than another, but the key element is faith in God's ability to work through venues. One of my favorite topics covered in the book is on sacraments; how different Christians believe in the validity of different sacraments, and MacNutt presents stories of how people are healed through each of them: baptism, confession, communion and anointing of the sick are the major heavy weights. MacNutt was ordained and worked as a Catholic priest for many years, but he also worked with Christian ministers who specialized in healing from other churches, such as the late Rev. Tommy Tyson and Agnes Sanford.  <br /> <br />This is a great book for rejuvenating faith in prayer and an empowering read. I highly recommend it to any one looking for ways to deepen their prayer life, and particularly for those seeking confidence and guideline in how to help others through prayer. It revolutionized my perception of prayer groups; before MacNutt's book I believed that such groups were the perogative of fringe elements of Christianity, and now I feel more obligated and confident in praying for others. Thank you Francis MacNutt! <br />	2005-05-21
US	36747763	R3DY05SV6QBIQ2	0898704197	17285215	To Know Christ Jesus	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Brilliant synthesis of Christ's life	This is my favorite book on the Life of Christ. Frank Sheed spent much of his life as a street corner preacher; talking to crowds about Jesus and Christianity. His experience is reflected in this book, which is written in an engaging conversational tone. <br /> <br />\\"To Known Jesus Christ\\" is a synthesis of the knowledge that the gospels provide about Jesus' life in the Bible. While reading the Bible, some times the sequence and detail of events in Jesus' life varies according to the version of the gospel. Sheed presents a chronological account of the life of Jesus, based on all the information provided in the Bible. He also includes details about the culture, terrain, and cites of that time period, as known from achaeological evidence and other historical texts. The book includes a map at the end, which lsits all the places that Jesus traveled during his life.  <br /> <br />The end result form reading this book is a much more coherent picture of Jesus' life and a better concept of the timing of the key events of Jesus' ministry, which makes key stories in the New Testament easier to remember and more appreciable. This is a great handbook to learn the basic information about Jesus Christ for people who want to deepen their Christian faith, or for spiritual seekers who want to understand more about the core of Christianity.	2005-05-19
US	36747763	R3KTUURYT9QKT4	0802847420	639242976	The Story of Ruth: Twelve Moments in Every Woman's Life	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Motivation for coping with the daily grind of life	I read \\"The Story of Ruth\\" about a year after I read \\"Scarred by Struggle,\\" which is also by Dr.Chittister. Both books offer inspriation for dealing with difficulties based on a biblical story. The difference between the type of advice they offer, is that \\"The Story of Ruth,\\" contends more with the daily struggles that confront us in our lives, whereas \\"Scarred by Struggle\\" offers advice more suitable to a particular setback, such as an end of a relationship, or loss of job. <br /> <br />Dr. Chittister makes an interesting comment about the story of Ruth, in that though there is no blatant theophany in this book, one can not doubt that God is somehow present. For most of us, this will be our experience in life. God is present to us and speaks to us more often through the actions of others, than a Monty Python-type voice hailing from the sky. Likewise, we are called to do our best to try to create God's kingdom on this earth, by using our abilities and resources to help others and ourselves. Essentailly the story of Ruth is the story of women, who do all they can to help themselves, despite the fact that they are at a disadvantage by lacking male family members, and one of them (Ruth) is a foreigner and the other (Naomi) essentially is a stranger in her homeland, as she had lived outside it for so long. Despite the odds, they maintain their faith in the future, and eventually their welfare not only vastly improves, but they become the ancestors of David. <br /> <br />This is a great gift for girls who are reaching adolescence age. Or perhaps for any woman who is feelign a bit run down by life. The illustrations are gorgeous, and the message is optimistic. It is book that encourages hope in life, no matter how daunting one's station in life may appear to be, and reinforces the adage attributed to Augustine of Hippo that to be successful one must work as if every thing depended on one's self, but pray as if every thing depended on God.	2005-05-19
US	36747763	RAUB4GM9OC7WM	1928832288	434315084	I Believe in Love: A Personal Retreat Based on the Teaching of St. Thérèse of Lisieux	Books	5	63	64	N	N	Wonderful Meditations on Therese's Wisdom	\\"I Believe in Love\\" is a wonderful introduction to the wisdom of Therese of Lisieux. Reading it made me more fully appreciate her autobiography \\"Story of a Soul.\\"  Each chapter of the book comprises different topics that she addressed in her writings, and serves well as a meditation. I think the author states that it is his intent to provide the reader with a personal retreat based on the teachings of Therese. I read one chapter a night before I went to bed.   <br /> <br />Therese of Lisieux's approach to spirituality is accessible to any one in any walk of life. She describes souls as similar to different types of flowers. Some are roses, others lilies, and some like orchids, for example. And all can be equally pleasing to God in their own way, when seeking his role for them. People have different talents and different struggles, but these characteristics do not mean that any type is more valued than the other.   <br /> <br />The chapters are divided according to topics that address needs of everyone; regardless of what type of flower they are. The topics are drawn from examples of Therese's life and writings, but the author also includes many biblical quotes and some writings of other Christians, such as Teresa of Avila, that support the advice given.  <br /> <br />It is fitting that the first chapter describes love, as Therese sated that is the Church is one body, then she want to be its heart, that loves every one, because God is love. The chapter instructs how to demonstrate love to God and others through all actions of our lives, regardless of our station or ability. The chapter \\"Fraternal Charity\\" speaks in greater details about relations with others and how to fulfill our duties towards them <br /> <br />The chapter \\"Unshakeable Confidence\\" outlines advice for people who experience spiritual dryness. It amazed me to learn that Therese of Lisieux experiences dryness, and helps console me when I feel similarly, because if some one who lived as holy a life as she did suffered from this problem, than I should not feel disillusioned from the experience. <br /> <br />\\"Humble Confidence\\" is a chapter that provides sound guidance for acting in faith. It seems that there is a fine line between being confident in religion and proud, the latter of which is not a virtue.    <br /> <br />\\"Abandonment to Jesus\\" and \\"The Cross\\" are helpful chapters for people experiencing difficult times, and anxiety about the future; whether it is the daily grind that is wearing one down, or a specific setback.  And Catholic may benefit particularly from the chapter on the \\"Eucharist,\\" as the late Pope has named this year the \\"Year of the Eucharist.\\" <br /> <br />The book is easy to read and personal. The organization of the chapters, are useful for providing support to people during different struggles. I read the book through once, and return to different sections, depending on my needs, but each chapter is a complete meditation in itself and the book can be skipped around. Each reading makes me appreciate them more.  <br /> <br />	2005-04-27
US	36747763	R207GYRU4571UD	0935216588	925497707	Story of a Soul: The Autobiography of St. Therese of Lisieux (the Little Flower) [The Authorized English Translation of Therese's Original Unaltered Manuscripts]	Books	5	403	412	N	N	Brilliant treatise on power and methods of love	I was recommended \\"Story of a Soul\\" as the favorite book of a woman I much admired, who worked at a Carmelite monastery. Initially I wondered about the recommendation when I began the book. Therese of Lisieux lived a sheltered life. Her parents were financially secure and devoutly religious (they had to be encouraged by a priest to marry rather than to join a religious order, and later to consummate their marriage). Therese knew she wanted to be a nun from an extremely early age.  <br /> <br />My first impression was to wonder why was this book recommended to me, when she has nothing in common with my life, at a time when I didn't known how I would pay the bills and was not sure what God wanted form me in terms of a vocation. True, her health was poor and she suffered the loss of her mother early in her life, so her life was not without sorrow. But she also seemed to have security, love, and an incredible sense of direction, which made me question what I could learn from her life, when these qualities were so missing in my own. Furthermore, I questioned whether some one who lived so holy a life, could be a realistic role model for me; as I have made some pretty unholy decisions in my past. <br /> <br />The book quickly grew on me and eradicated my concerns about it being an inaccessible guide for spirituality. The beauty of the writing is her approach to spirituality, which is accessible to any one in any walk of life. She describes souls as similar to different types of flowers. Some are roses, others lilies, and some like orchids, for example. And all can be equally pleasing to God in their own way, when seeking his role for them. People have different talents and different struggles, but these characteristics do not mean that any type is more valued than the other.  <br /> <br />She writes that if the Christian Church is one body, than she wants to be the heart that loves, which I thought was a beautiful sentiment and a much needed philosophy in the world today.When I look on mistakes I've made in my own life, I realized that it is easiest to succumb to temptation when one feels alone and unloved, and I believe that people would make less such mistakes if they had the support of  God's love through others. She writes frequently of the many ways that God is love. She believed that heaven for her would be to be able to help people on earth after she died. Many remarkable stories have been published in books about people who claim to have been helped when having asked Therese to pray for their needs. She is one of the most common saints that people claim to have seen an apparition of during their times of trouble. <br /> <br />She writes that any sacrifice in daily life can be offered to God, for the conversion of souls, or help of others, whether it is the suffering of an illness or loss, or the performance of a mundane daily chore. This is a practice also advocated by saints like Gertrude of Helfta, Catherine of Siena, Teresa of Avila, and Francis of Assisi, but it is a way of holy living that any one can practice, in any station of life, at any level of health. Therese also writes much about the prayer, and how her preferred method of praying rather than to memorize long formal prayers, is to speak directly to God as a child, or her struggles and requests.  <br /> <br />The book is easy to read and intimate. One feels as if one is experiencing a conversation from Therese, while reading it. Excerpts beg to be read over and over again, and each reading makes me appreciate them more, and want to love others more. The only book that has made me fuller of love for God and others (outside of the Bible) is Catherine of Siena's \\"The Dialogues.\\"  Therese of Lisieux well earned her title as Doctor of the Church.	2005-04-27
US	36747763	R2B6FW3MDUTCGQ	0898704707	930746711	Theology and Sanity	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Unsurpassed Synthesis and Outline of Catholic beliefs	Frank Sheed's \\"Theology and Sanity\\" is a classic work of Catholic apologetics. The book is a distillation of core Catholic teaching, which comes down to actions of three beings(God, Adam, and Jesus) and four events (Creation, the Fall, Redemption, and Judgement), and the implications that these  beings and actions have on Catholics' perception of reality. Sheed believes that without understanding the basic theology behind these beings and actions, that individuals have a limited ability to make sane decisions, because they are not making decisions based on the full reality of life.     The chapters in which he defines the Trinity, are worth the proice of the book alone; never have I have such a full comprehension of this doctrine or understood the smenatics implied when Christians pray and invoke any or all of the three Persons. His chapters on Christ ignited in me a greater desire to read all that is written about Jesus, as well as made me more sensitive to dynamics behind his actions in the Bible.    The book is written in a style that is simple and accessible, yet still erudite. I recommend this book to all Catholics who want to understand better the concepts with which they grew up. All Christians may benefit from reading the book as a whole, but I don't think it is the type of book to convert people who are opposed to Catholic teaching. Sheed uses scripture extensively to support dotrine presented in some chapters but does not implement this approach with all chapters, which might lead people who are not familiar with the history of the teachings presented to question \\"where in the Bible it says that,\\" though all doctrines are supported by the Bible, this is not a Bible study (but Sheed recommends that people reading the bok combine its study with a simultaneous study of the Gospels). It is a summary of Catholic beliefs about main events and actors in the history of the Christian Church. There is less stress on proving that the beliefs are valid, and a greateremphasis is on articulating the basic interpretation.	2005-04-11
US	36747763	R1DMYJGLPTORX7	0972962336	371299957	The Power of Divine: A Healer's Guide - Tapping into the Miracle	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Probably more helpful to people who are "healers" already	I was severely disappointed in this book. From the back of the book, I received the impression that it would be a useful tool for people who are trying to discern if they have the charisma for healing as gifted by the Holy Spirit. The only new information I received from this book, was that if your hands heat up then you might be a healer. It did not help me much from a religious perspective, but might be more useful to people who have not read anything on religious healing to serve as an introductory text, or those involved in alternative health whom are not very interested in religion's role in healing. However, people who do not have any type of alternative training, may not find the book useful as a handbook, expcet for as a guide to how to start up a practice one you have your trianing. She does not go into sepcific detail about the training reiki provides for healers.     Although I find it somewhat insidious to charge for religious healings (as her web site has a blanket give me $100 and I'll give you a healing form), I do believe that she has some sort of healing power. But I don't think that there was much helpful information for people who are not involved in a healing practice already, and who are unsure if they have the potential. I think the book is better suited for people who are already practicing a discipline such as reiki or for people in the mainstream medical establishment (nurses and doctors) to encourage them to pray for their patients, in addition to using the healing knowledge they already possess.    In terms of spiritual healing, Snow writes about how people can benefit from meditating daily, focusing on God's love and expressing their love to them. In fact, that is all of the guidance she gave, and I was most disappointed by the paucity of advice and direction offered in this aspect, because the back of the book compared her to Teresa of Avila. Teresa of Avila is mystic who wrote books about meditation and conversing with God. Tiffany Snowoffers not such guidelines or insight, and the comparison between the two authors is grossly inappropriate.     Snow merely states that she spends 1-2 hours a day meditating on God's love, and was largely inspired by Briege McKenna, who wrote in her book \\"Miracles do Happen,\\" that she spends 2-3 hours doing the same. I found McKenna's book much more enlightening. She gives detailed description about how she spends that time. Most of the inspiration I found in Snow's books were the quotes that she provided from other writers, such as McKenna, Teresa of Avila, and Francis MacNutt. Snow's writing was elementary, lacked depth, and full of grammatical errors. Chances are that if you read one other book on religious healing, than there will be no new information to gain from reading Snow's book. One reviwer noted that the book received wards; I don't see that written on the book and I don't see how its quality would merit any acclaim.     If Snow's book were truly ecumenical in its approach to healing by prayer for all who pray to God, then it would not have left out the fact that many people who believe that they are healed through sacraments, such as communion. Snow's failure to either investigate or report those stories deprives the reader of an important venue of religious healing available to those who believe differently than her. I think Francis Macnutt's \\"Healing\\" is a much more comprehensive approach to religious healing. He outlines how belief in different types of sacraments has led to healing by people who believe in those sacraments, and he gives examples of healings that occurred from receptions of each.  McKenna's book and MacNutt's book both include many cases of healing which were experienced by people who received the Eucharist. Neither McKenna nor MacNutt offer instantaneous healing upon payment from their web sites, which increases their credibility in my eyes. Patricia Proctor's \\"101 Inspirational Stories of the Eucharist,\\" and Joan Carrol Cruz's \\"Eucharistic Miracles\\" contain little other than many stories of healings received by those who believed in that sacrament.     If Snow's book marketed itself as purely alternative, ignoring the power of sacraments would not be an ommission, but since she refers to the power of Christianity in her healing, it seems a grave error to present incompletely the spiritual tools available for Christian healers. At the same time, she does not provide much informationa botu alternative venues for healing,a side from the fact she was trained in Reiki. An interesting read, but definitely not a book I intend to keep.	2005-04-11
US	36747763	R1LJOZ6NYV9TGG	0819814482	403659278	Christian Prayer: The Liturgy of the Hours (Prayer and Inspiration)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Great edition	I have often admired the committment of Muslims, whose religious practice gives them a framework through which they pray five times a day, combining their scripture with prayers to God. They stop whatever they are doing, and whther alone or with a group, they pray and they know that everyone within their time zone is conversing with God at the same time each day. I only learned about a year ago that this ancient tradition is inherent in all Abrahamic faiths, originating with Judaism (being the oldest of the three faiths). The Liturgy of the Hours is the Christian format and tradition. <br /> <br />I prefer the Pauline format used in this book to that offered by the Catholic Publishing company, because I better understand when to include the antiphon. I found the book relatively easy to use for the prayers, becuase I acquired it within the Ocatave of Easter. But I don't know if I would have found the correct week if I purchased it outside of a holiday.  <br /> <br />There is much information in this version as to how to pray the liturgy of the hours, but I have not figured out how to incorporate the non-biblical readings. I am sure there must be more information somewhere, but I can't grasp the chart, as there are not enough days for it to be one reading a day during the Easter season, and somehow they must repeat themselves. <br /> <br />That being said, I looked at the other one volume version (be Catholic Publishing Co.) available and this version is more user friendly. Still, I recently ordered the guide \\"Lord Open My Lips,\\" hoping that it will enlighten me as to how to use the nonBiblical readings for the full devotion. <br /> <br />I feel as if the book has greatly enriched my prayer life. It did not take long at all to recognize the format for the prayers, and the daily selections are a good combination of petitions for help from and praise to God. I highly recomed that anyone interested in praying with scripture try this method of prayer. There is a comfortable feeling from knowing that when you pray these prayers, even though you may be alone in your room (but many Catholic churches offer the lauds prayers before mass each morning, so if you live near one and want to join in - ask they'll be thrilled to have you there), many, many people are praying them with you each day at the set times.	2005-04-08
US	36747763	RLMBERAXANG6O	0895557967	368712877	Where We Got the Bible... Our Debt to the Catholic Church	Books	4	33	37	N	N	valuable history of translation of scripture	Henry Graham's \\"Where we Got the Bible\\" provides a useful background of the history of Bible in translation. I was not aware that the Catholic Church has been translating scripture into vernacular languages since the eighth century. For these chapters alone the book is well worth its price.<br /><br />However, I had hoped that he would provide more information as to how closely Luther used the Jamnian or Palestinian canon, when deciding on his canon for the Old Testament. A main difference between Protestant and Catholic translations of the Bible, is that the Catholic Church has always endorsed the use of the Septuagint as canonical guidelines for its composition of the Old Testament, since that is the version of the Old Testament that was regarded as canonical during Jesus' time.<br /><br />Following the fall of the Temple, many Jewish refugees led by Jochanan Ben Zakkai fled to the village of Jamnia. The religious leaders revised what had until then been referred to as Scripture, in order limit the references of the Scripture that illustrated that Jesus was the messiah, so that less Jews would be tempted to convert to Christianity. This revised version of the Old Testament became known as the Jamnian or Palestinian canon. Luther did not attack the idea of what books should be classified as canonical until he lost debates that supported Catholic dogma and which were rooted in scripture not included in the Jamnian canon but included in the Septuagint canon. Then he decided to eradicate some books from the Old Testament and delete portions of others.<br /><br />Graham gives the impression that Luther abridged the Old Testament only to support the doctrine that he espoused, and which conflicted with some teachings of the Catholic Church. Graham says nothing about the Jamnian canon and why Protestants have adopted it or to what degree. I think this neglect is careless.<br /><br />Another shortcoming of the book is that it was written almost 100 years ago and ends with endorsing the Douay Rheims English translation of the Bible, because at the time of Graham's writing, it was the only Catholic version of the Bible available in English. The Douay Rheims is an English translation of the Latin translation of the original languages. Perhaps more new translations of the Bible have been published since Graham's book, than what were published at the time of Graham's writing. Today, the Catholic Church uses the New American Bible for US liturgies and uses the Jerusalem Bible for English liturgies in other countries. Catholic scholars seem to have a preference for the Revised Standard Version (Catholic Edition), but I am not sure why they prefer that translation over those used for liturgical purposes and there are more Catholic editions available on the market. Today there are Catholic translations of the Bible that are direct translations form the original languages.<br /><br />I was disappointed that Tan Publishing did not have an addendum added to the Graham's book, which brought the reader current with the newer translations of the Bible that at least the Catholic Church used (it would not make much sense to comment on all versions available, when the book argues that it is best to use a Bible that uses the Septuagint canon for the Old Testament) and how these books compare to each other, since the book was reprinted in 2004.nglish translation of the Bible, because at the time of Graham's writing, it was the only Catholic version of the Bible available in English. The Douay Rheims is an English translation of the Latin translation of the original languages. Perhaps more new translations of the Bible have been published since Graham's book, than what were published at the time of Graham's writing. Today, the Catholic Church uses the New American Bible for US liturgies and uses the Jerusalem Bible for English liturgies in other countries. Catholic scholars seem to have a preference for the Revised Standard Version (Catholic Edition), but I am not sure why they prefer that translation over those used for liturgical purposes and there are more Catholic editions available on the market. Today there are Catholic translations of the Bible that are direct translations form the original languages.     I was disappointed that Tan Publishing did not have an addendum added to the Graham's book, which brought the reader current with the newer translations of the Bible that at least the Catholic Church used (it would not make much sense to comment on all versions available, when the book argues that it is best to use a Bible that uses the Septuagint canon for the Old Testament) and how these books compare to each other, since the book was reprinted in 2004.	2005-03-10
US	36747763	R3JQIGAAHFV3K0	089281764X	807903990	The Heart of Yoga: Developing a Personal Practice	Books	5	75	80	N	N	Required reading for understanding yoga	I am dismayed that so many members think of yoga as part of a new age mentality that is the antithesis of religion or an alternative to any faith. \\"The Heart of Yoga\\" by Desikachar does much to dispel this myth. Yoga is not a religion, although for the vast part of its existence has been practiced by people who have adhered to Hinduism. Yoga is a comprehensive approach to mental and physical health, which may fall under the rubric of alternative health systems, but as it has existed for millennia, there is nothing \\"new\\" about its age. <br /> <br />Desikachar's book discusses the history of yoga and its practicality for today. A copy of Patanjali's \\"Yoga Sutra\\" is included in the appendix of the book. The Yoga Sutra is a collection of inspirational maxims for how to approach life. In some of their writing they acknowledge one's connection to a divine entity, or a concept greater than our selves, but it never defines this entity or commands any sort of conceptualization for what many would refer to as God.  <br /> <br />Yoga is more than just a series of poses, which have gained popularity as an exercise fad. It is a philosophy that commands the respect of life and recommends dietary practices to purges the body of yama, which we could be referred to as toxins; the accumulation of which make a person prone to disease and mental anxiety. Poses also have therapeutic benefits in that they release hormones and antibodies in addition to toxins, by compressing, stretching, and releasing various glands and muscles of the body.  Desikachar writes about the history of experienced yoga teachers, who did not design one series of yoga poses for every one, but looked at the needs of particular individuals and assigned poses based on their needs; such as did the person have trouble sleeping, digesting food,  or a physical ailment that needed to be addressed. He offers suggestions for poses that can help address common maladies, as well as a series of poses that address the mot popular affliction that people from the modern world suffer. <br /> <br />The book also spends much time on teaching the reader on how the physical practice can be spiritual; that one's approach or aversion to a particular pose may reflect a person's approach to challenges in life. One finishes the book learning how to make meditation out of movement; a practice which increase perception of ourselves and our environment. <br />	2005-03-09
US	36747763	R2652X99JWK5LI	0898707102	142963587	An Exorcist Tells His Story	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Focused theological study of validity of exorcisms	\\"An Exorcist Tells His Story\\" was interesting because it was more of a theology of exorcism, than any sort of sensationalist book. From its description I thought it would be more like case studies. But it was more like a series of essays, in which he occasionally referred to things he learned form his experiences.   <br /> <br />As one reviewer noted, the danger in reading such material is gaining a fear that perhaps demonic oppression is behind any present problem, but the wonderful deliverance and healing prayers introduced in the appendix empower readers who acquire such fears to address the problem and take precautions.  <br /> <br />The book raised some important issues for Catholcis in particular. Full demonic possession is really rare, but demonic oppression happens quite often. The problem is that so few priests are willing to learn about this field, that people in desperation often to turn to witch doctors or psychics, which makes the situation worse for them. <br /> <br />Fr. Amorth writes about Jesus' commands in the gospel to heal people in his name and to deliver them from demons, but questions why the Catholic Church has paid so little attention to these commands. He stated that the Church could learn something form some of the other Christian churches that practice spiritual healing and deliverance prayers. But he didn't specify which churches or how, or who. I wish he gave more follow up information. It sounded like an appeal to support the Charismatic movement in the Catholic Church, but it was not outwardly stated. <br />	2005-03-09
US	36747763	R3FJEYTQ5M00YO	0330393278	310293828	Official Body Control Pilates Manual	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Ultimate Reference for Pilates	Pilates, like yoga, is best studied with an instructor, because the benefits from the exercise are derived no in their execution, but in the attempt. Alignment is critical, and for beginners, \\"what feels right\\" may not be right, because they are unlearning a life time of incorrect posture. However, this book is close as one can get to a trained instructor. It teaches the reader how to identify current posture patterns. It offers recommendations for series of exercises to rectify skeletal and muscular alignment based on the posture assessment. It also includes series of exercises based on work style (e.g. if you stand much on the job, this set will help you the most; is you sit for prolonged  periods of times then try another set, exercises for those who use a key board all day, ect.). It also provides series of exercises for particular people who pursue athletic activities top address the imbalances that the repetition of these activities might pose to the body's structure (e.g. series for cyclists, swimmers, hikers, runners, volleyball players, ect.). And it provides combinations of exercises to address particular physical ailments and areas that people want to strengthen (e.g. sore backs, cramped feet, weak arms, sore necks, stomachs, ect.). <br /> <br />The exercises recommended are all based on the floor and require no equipment, aside form a matt (for which a thick blanket can substitute). Each exercise is rated according to a degree of difficulty by colors, and modifications are suggested for more challenging poses, so that a beginner can work up to the more challenging version with regular practice. The instructions pay close attention to proper alignment in the pose, and provide clear instructions with lots of pictures so that the exercise beginner can easily comprehend. The exercises are simple to understand, but since the work with the body, they will always be challenging when executed properly with full effort.  The introduction offers a background of pilates.  <br /> <br />This excellence of the book in its thoroughness to detail and variety of solutions for every physical imbalance a body might experience, commend it to a class of excellence all of its own. I can not recommend it highly enough. <br />	2005-03-09
US	36747763	RGQEFZDI1WNVB	0867161167	401449606	Francis: The Journey and the Dream	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Good for meditation but short on details	I purchased this book hoping to learn more about Francis of Assisi, because it was recommended to me by a few people. I was slightly disappointed in its approach. It is more of a meditative poem about Francis of Assisi's life than a concrete portrait of the individual. There are no quotes about Francis from his writing and the book does not highlight important dates or the historical significance of Francis's actions during the time in which he lived. It is almost as if the book was written in a vacuum. <br /> <br />The story is uplifting as a meditative resource. Francis of Assisi began his life as a member of the wealthy nobility, who had an aversion to the poor and the sick. He had a conversion experience while looking at a crucifix at San Damiano, which changed his life. He started a religious order that was revolutionary in its approach to embracing the poor and avoiding the pitfalls of materialism which plagued much of the Church during his life time.  In challenging the status quo, he experienced much opposition, which the book does not investigate, but perhaps in doing so it would lose some of its poetic flow that helps it serve as a meditative resource, because it would require an analysis of politics (nasty business in any time period).  <br /> <br />Francis of Assisi is the archetypical respecter of all life. He preached peace, when most of his world was engaged in crusades. He preached equity, when people believed that a state of life was largely a birth right. He is known for his great appreciation for all God's creatures, including members of the animal kingdom. His life was not without challenges, and the book gives the impression that at times he did have doubts about God's plan for him, and was subject to loneliness because of his mission.  I wish that the book went into greater details about these aspects of his life, but it does provide much food for thought that leads the reader to greater interest in the character of Francis, his values, and Franciscan spirituality. <br />	2005-03-09
US	36747763	R3BPPJZOUJQF2K	1585420204	794962164	Bikram's Beginning Yoga Class (Second Edtion)	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Must have for Bikram afficionados	I purchased this book when I started attending Bikram yoga classes. Although the book does give some information about how the practice can be done at home, the purpose of the book is not to create a home as much as it is to learn how to derive more benefits from practicing yoga in the studio. Heat and humidity are essential ingredients to a Bikram practice and it is almost impossible to replicate this environment in a home. Also the book talks much about the heat in terms of the temperature that an ideal room should be but does not mention the role of humidity. And timing is very important for the poses. When Bikram designed his system, he took every nuance of the environment into account, and when one practices alone, counting the seconds detracts from the concentration with which should approach every pose. <br /> <br />Yoga is best practiced in a studio. The benefits derived from the poses are not so much determined by the ability of one to perform them perfectly, as it is from the effort one places in trying to approach the pose as appropriately as possible. Alignment is critical and instructors are essential, particularly for beginners to insure that the pose is being pursued correctly. Due to constraints of time, and often the size of Bikram classes, which are very popular (because their mental and physical benefits are amazing), it is not possible for an instructor to tell you al the information possible about the poses benefits, and ideas about how to improve your approach to any given posture. The Bikram yoga instructors that I have had have been amazing people with much attention to detail of the people in their classes, but this book provides information to supplement that which is given during class, which increase one's knowledge about the background, benefits, and various helpful ways to think about the poses; a lot of details which can not be given in classes due to time constraints. Anyone who attends Bikram classes would benefit from this book, aswould those curious about Bikram yoga, who want to learn more about the poses before they take a class. <br /> <br />The only reason that I give the book four rather than five stars is its limited attention to the role of food for Bikram classes. Any Bikram studio, as well as the book, will advise people not to eat two hours before practice. My experience has been that going to a pracitce with a complete empty stomach, has made me feel just as nauseous as if I had eaten too much. I sat through a few classes feeling completely ill, becuase I had not had the time to eat all day before I atteneded the class before I realized the connection. The discomfort was so great, that I think it should have been mentioned in the book. <br />	2005-03-09
US	36747763	R21YAUYZQVET1Q	0375701710	672142264	The New Life	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Phenomenal exploration of identity and happiness	I do not read much fiction, but Orhan Pamuk is an author who writes novels with great psychological examinations of life, so that to classify them as fiction does them a great disservice. Like all of Pamuk's novels, identity is a central theme in \\"The New Life.\\" Turkish life and the change its people experience are so full of vibrance that it constitutes a separate character. Very few nonfiction history, political or economic works do justice to the complex state of Turkish affairs, but one receives a deep understanding of modern Turkey from reading Pamuk's novels; even when they are set in the past.    The novel's central character Osman is on a quest of self-discovery; phyiscally he is searching for a book of answers. Chief among these answers that the book is believed to hold is obtaining happiness, which Osman feels for the first time when he is infatuated with Janan, in the throws of love or obessession. Let the reader decide as it is part of Osman's journey too. Of course it woudl be too neat if Jahan simply returned the infatuation. She is obssessed with another character; but is it the person or his ideas that hold her captive?     The book is less about finding the object than it is about the journey and what articualtes a search for intangible things that every one seeks or expects to find from life, and why they feel bitter disappoitment, when they believe that their lives are void of such things.     The expectations embodied in the novel include universal concepts such as love, happiness, and a sense of belonging to soemthing greater than one's self. Things we are told we will have if we do all that is expected of us, as people. And things that make us feel less full as individuals when whe feel that we lack them. However, these are often sentiments that feel most out of reach when we grab for them. How can we prove they are there, if reaching for them makes them slip away? Osman does a lot of grabbing.     The actions in this book are simple but the poetic writing style is full of philosphy that enriches the reader by following Osman's quest. This is a book that can be read again and again, with greater meaning derived from each approach. And this is a book that has to be read, not only because everyone has Osman's questions at some point or many times in their lives, but also because the type of deep thinking that the book engenders could enver be embodied in a movie adaption. The book reminds people why reading fiction can still be an important and fulfilling an activity for personal development.	2005-03-01
US	36747763	R20AU12A7UL6P	0935216146	192327135	The Collected Works of St. John of the Cross (includes The Ascent of Mount Carmel, The Dark Night, The Spiritual Canticle, The Living Flame of Love, Letters, and The Minor Works)	Books	5	92	95	N	N	The "John of the Cross" Book to Own	John of the Cross is best known to Enlgish readers for his spiritual classic \\"Dark Night,\\" though he is hailed as one of Spain's greatest poets for his many poems that reflect his love for God, and his desire to known and love God better (his fame in that sense is simlar to Rumi's in which these are often used as romantic peoms for lovers too).  <br /> <br />His writing in general exhorts people to love God, and reflect the idea that by purging one self of vices and cultivating virtues (chief among which are charity towards others and humilty in all) one will be better able to understand God's intentions for us and better able to love, which is the reflection of God to others. People he inspired included Therese of Liseux, Edith Stein, Teresa of Avila, and Pope John Paul II.   <br /> <br />\\"Dark Night,\\" portrays the passive purification that one's soul experiences when growing closer to God. It was written after \\"Ascent of Mount Carmel,\\" which gives instructions as to how a person should work to actively purge the soul of imperfections in order to move closer to God. Both of tehse wroks have many similariteis with yogic and Buddhist philosophy.  <br /> <br />The two works are deeply integrated and best read together. However, it is very difficult to find copies of \\"Ascent of Mount Carmel,\\" since the work was incomplete. This volume offers one of the rare copies of this treasured text.   <br /> <br />\\"The Collected Works\\" were translated and organized by Kieran Kavanaugh and Otilio Rodriguez, both of whom are Carmelite priests. The translation is as easy to read, as one can find of John's work, whose writing style is not as accessible as that by other popular mytics such as Teresa of Avila and Catherine of Siena. The book comprises everything written by John of the Cross, including his poems and some letters. The authors preface each work with a background that gives a summary of its importance and the historical context in which it was written.  <br /> <br />The introduction of the book has an excellent abbreviated biography of John of Cross, and explains the influence that Teresa of Avila had on him and vice versa. The book's appendix has a glossary of terms which helps the reader better comprehend John's writing.  <br /> <br />The use of footnotes through out the text is not excessive and does not interrupt the flow of the writing by distracting the reader's attention, but rather provides essential information at junctures in which the reader might be thinking \\"what???\\" There is also a helpful timeline in the beginning of the book that juxtaposes John of the Cross's life to events in Spanish history and the life of the Church. Finally, the book includes drawings made by John of the Cross that he designed to articulate his ideas to those he instructed. I can think of no better book with which to study John of the Cross in the English language, and when the book presents his drawings and poems, it offers the Spanish version next to the English.	2005-02-27
US	36747763	R1HRYRFJW5IVPA	0898705509	901751718	Angels and Demons: What Do We Really Know about Them?	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Great Handbook for Biblical Spiritual Entities	I enjoyed reading Peter Kreeft's \\"Angels and Demons.\\" Writen in a question and answer format, it is easy to look up information about angels and demons that people may conceive while reading the Bible, other spiritual reading, or when confronted by images given to them by Hollywood. This is helpful reference for the seriously relgious, spiritual seekers, or those interested in investigating  these ebings after ecountering them in literature or the movies. <br /> <br />I was slightly disappointed that more of the book concered information about angels than demons, since there are so many more books available from mainstream book sellers about angels. Then again, far more people believe in angels than demons. Kreeft covers a lot of territory in the book by researching what information is available from the Bible, other works by Christian writers, and even occasionally adds insights from other religions such as Islam, when answering adressing questions that arise from popular preceptions of angels and demons; some of which were posed to him personally as a teacher at a college.	2005-02-26
US	36747763	R2ME4PL79L52OT	0385496591	335617046	The Lamb's Supper: The Mass as Heaven on Earth	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Revolutionized my perception of mass	Scott Hahn's \\"The Lambs' Supper\\" revolutionized my perception of mass. I have always been taught that mass should be a celebration. Sometime it is difficult to remember this, when the priest is less than gifted with the talent of communication or concern for his parish. Until I read Hahn's book, I did not fully comprehend the extent of the celebration that the mass embodied. I had thought that the participation of angels and saints during the service was a metaphor, because unfortunately, my understanding of the origin of the mass did not include the relevance of the Book of Revelation in comprehending the audience with which we celebrate the mass. I had only been taught the important of the gospels to the structure of the mass. Hahn's analysis of the Book of Revelation was an incredible eye-opener for me, which greatly increased the depth of my appreciation for mass. I never noticed the parallels between the structure of the mass and the outline of the Book of Revelation, partially because prior to Hahn's book I did not spend much time reviewing apocalyptic literature.  <br /> <br />The Lamb's Supper gave me a much greater insight of the significance of the mass, which makes me more eager to attend, (regardless of the celebrant or the congregation). It also demystified some of the most opaque parts of the Book of Revelation for me, and ignited my interest in learning more about Catholic interpretations of that book (I followed Hahn's book with David Currie's Rapture). <br />	2005-02-16
US	36747763	R1LUTMHABFDSEQ	0345397266	435503478	Why Do Catholics Do That?: A Guide to the Teachings and Practices of the Catholic Church	Books	5	87	90	N	N	My Favorite Catholic Background Book	This is my favorite \\"Why do Catholics\\" book, and I have read quite a few, as I was raised Catholic and had to learn to defend my beliefs when my parents moved to the Bible belt in my late teens. If I had known about this book then, my life would have been much easier. <br /> <br />Dr. Johnson's book is much more entertaining and thorough than work of a similar nature, such as Karl Keating's better known books.  Dr. Johnson converses with the reader, which makes the writing style engaging and memorable; he does not say use the dry approach of \\"some people think this,\\" but rather uses and approach of \\"We Catholics believe.\\" He does not discuss beliefs of other religions, except when comparing the different approach used for compilations of scriptures. This makes me more comfortable in recommending to books to other Christians, unlike Keating's work, in which the terms used sometimes appeal slanderous to people from denominations such as Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses.   <br /> <br />This is a book of Catholic practices and religious beliefs and explores illustrates from where they came. It does not address moral theology, but is more concerned with issues such as \\"why does the Old Testament comprise these books,\\" \\"why is there a Pope,\\" \\"what is the official stances on alleged apparitions,\\" \\"what is the roles of saints,\\" ect. But is also has fun tid bits of information that many Catholic information guides fail to address, like the use of incense, the dress of clergy, and terms used for the religious. It also explains popular devotions and their history; such as The Way of the Cross and the rosary.  <br /> <br />Amazon recommended it to me for some time. I wish I bought it sooner, but I thought that it looked too basic to be a wise investment for me. Then some one gave me a gift certificate for Christmas and this book was at the store; I flipped though it and found so much entertaining trivia, that I purchased it on the spot- wishing I had listened to Amazon sooner.<br /> <br />I have since given them as gifts to people who wanted to learn more about Catholicism, and contrary to a few opinions expressed form other reviews here, they did not find the book offensive, but appreciated it. I highly recommend it. The broad range of information it contains makes it an ideal reference for the uninitiated and curious, as well as for the person who has had much experience and education in Catholicism seeking to fill in any gaps of knowledge.	2005-02-14
US	36747763	R137MTN7GSIVP7	0826414737	584552589	Truly Our Sister: A Theology of Mary in the Communion of Saints	Books	5	77	89	N	N	Empowerment through all of Mary's virtues	\\"Truly Our Sister,\\" by Dr. Elizabeth Johnson received the Jerome Award form the Catholic Library association, the John Courtney Murray Award from the Catholic Theological Association, and the 2004 Book Award from the College Theology Society in 2004. Dr. Johnson was the first woman to receive tenure form Catholic University of America, and is currently Distinguished Professor of theology at Fordham University, and a sister of Saint Joseph. With such commendations, it appears that the consensus is the book is theologically sound, though it may challenge some preconceived notions.     Dr. Johnson's book in no way denigrates the character of Mary the mother of Jesus, but instead seeks to articulate all of the virtues of Mary that we (and women in particular) can find in Mary as a role model. The \\"Our Sister\\" in the title is not intended as some claim to deny the fact that Mary was the mother of God and a role model for maternity, but refers to the fact that as Mary is also God's daughter, and through that aspect she is also our sister through religion. The title's use originates from quote by Pope Paul VI, and as such should not be considered \\"unorthodox.\\"     The book analyses the virtues that Mary demonstrated in her life, which offer hope and reassurance to particularly women (thought they should not be precluded from men) during daily struggles. Dr. Johnson pays special attention to the plight of oppressed women. In scripture, when the angel appeared to Mary, and asked her to do God's will, Mary said yes.  When doing so, she did so without hesitation, and did not first seek the opinion of her male guardian, who during the time period would have had the ultimate legal custody of Mary's future, nor did she consult a rabbi. The implications of accepting God's will were that she may possible be bearing a child out of wedlock, which would have socially stigmatize her, and made her an outcast of society, but she had faith that God would provide. Mary's obedience to the will of God as a priority over concerns about the law of men was courageous and loyal. Her trust in God to protect her during her potential time of difficulty demonstrated exemplary faith, trust, and hope. This is the image of Mary that provides the most help and reassurance to the women interviewed by Dr. Johnson, during their times of ordeal, and hope during times that no physical assistance seems in sight for them.    However, the image of Mary presented by Christianity focused on her obedience, meekness, and virginity. It did not stress that Mary's obedience was to God rather than to patriarchal institutions, and that her humility to God's will. Although it was a miracle for a virgin to give birth and that aspect of the story helps to demonstrate that Jesus was the Christ promised, virginity was not an uncommon characteristic of a young unmarried woman in Jesus' society.     The image that a church dominated by men constructed of Mary as a role model, extols values that make it easy to subjugate women and render their voices invisible.  It is an image, ironically, that received no input from women, but to which all women were commanded to use as a role model; basically saying theses are the virtues that you should find inspirational. It is also an incomplete image and does not convey the fullness of virtues demonstrated by Mary, which can help women today: Mary's courage to say yes to God's will, and to follow Jesus to the foot of the cross; Mary's priority of obedience to what is truly good as opposed to what society tells her is the norm; her humility towards God, but her leadership in the realm of men that was demonstrated by her catapulting Jesus' public ministry by asking him to change the water into wine at the marriage of Cana; and an acknowledgement that Mary did suffer when God's will was being fulfilled through the crucifixion.     An image of Mary that neglects these components of her life is not only terrible because it is incomplete and does injustice to the role that Mary played in religious history, but it dangerous to women. Dr. Johnson notes a study by psychologists among women of Hispanic culture, in which women who remain in abusive situations do so because they believe it is their role in life to suffer with humility any injustice that life gives them, as if it is God's will, similar to the interpretation that Mary was always obedient and meek and inactive, as mariansmo, a set of behavioral patterns that women tend to display when living in cultures dominated machismo. People need to be reminded that Mary is not a women who accpeted suffering for the sole sake of suffeirng as a virtue, nor did she accept suffering so that the false laws of men that perputuate injustice would be promoted in society. Mary accepted suffering when it was necessary to do so in order to fulfill God's plan and to contribute to creating his kingdom on earth.    Dr. Johnson's book explores all of Mary's virtues. The end result is an image that pays full honor to the entire scope of Mary's life, rather than propagating an incomplete image of Mary resulting from piecing together only certain aspects of Mary's virtues, which cause predominantly women to recourse to a model that tells them to always suffer injustice quietly as a virtue - the consequence of Christianity's portrayal of Mary for the majority of its existence. Dr. Johnson's image of Mary honors her in all her glory, rather than only highlighting the aspects which can be used against women by cultural and religious institutions. The end result is a role model in which all people (not only women) can find inspiration and better guidance for discerning God's plan for their lives, and a deeper respect for the role that Mary played in her time, which increases the reasons and motivation to honor her.	2005-02-11
US	36747763	R28HGZQDJRG34R	1928832725	690147295	Rapture: The End-Times Error That Leaves the Bible Behind	Books	5	56	63	N	N	Surprisingly  credible explanation of a timely topic	It would be a fallacy not to explore the Christian concept of the end of the world, even if one is not Christian, nor particularly religious if born a Christian. The topic has significant impact on US policy. There is an institutionalize premillenialist perspective of \\"how the world will end\\" that is currently being propagated in the US, that affects the way people vote and organize themselves to promote US policies, particularly those that affect peace and human rights in the middle east and attitudes towards the EU. What really interested me is that Premillenialism seems to have less a consistent root in Protestant beliefs, than it does in a distinctly American perception of the world. Very few Christians outside of the US, believe in premillenialism, even if they belong to congregations far removed from the Catholic church <br /> <br />David Currie's book, \\"Rapture: The End Times Error that Leaves the Bible behind\\" is a seminal analysis of apocalyptic literature in the Bible, and a comparison of the interpretations of the amillenialist (those who believe humans will not know the date of the end of the world) and premillenialist (those who think they can tell you the exact date when the world ends) camps. He provides examples of how people' attitudes towards life and ideas of responsibility in life can be influenced of solely dependent upon which end-times scenario they believe. He surveys modern literature in the field, but the advantage of this book over its contemporaries is that the meat of the book centers on the Bible itself. He compares the results of his biblical exegesis and the biblical exegesis of the premillenialists, with historical documents from the Roman Empire, and Jewish scholars such as Josephus, and writings from a few of the early church fathers.    <br /> <br />Currie has an excellent background to analyze both perspectives. He was raised in a premillenialist home; his parents were both teachers as Moody Bible Institute. Currie himself graduated from Divinity Evangelical Divinity School, and spent years working as a missionary teaching premillenialist theology to college students. However, as he taught, he began to question the biblical foundation of the premillenialist beliefs, and eventually abandoned them as biblically unsound. The biblical analysis of the book focuses on visions in Daniel, the Olivet Discourse in the gospels, the Epistles, and the Book of Revelation (the bulk of the study). He also analyses the book of Zechariah in the appendix.  <br /> <br />The apocalyptic passages in the Bible are often the ones I refrained most from reading, until Currie's book. His analysis thoroughly demystifies those passages, and the ground rules he provides for interpreting the Bible and information in regards to symbolic importance of numbers were immeasurable resources that enriched my study of all biblical passages, and may be helpful for everyone one, even if they are not persuaded by his interpretation. His argument completely persuaded me, and the perspective deeply reaffirmed my faith in Christianity. He wrote simply about a topic with deep implications, which made the information easy to comprehend and remember. The use of timelines that expressed his theories was invaluable. I can not recommend this book highly enough, and hope that many more come from David Currie in the future. <br />	2005-02-10
US	36747763	R3F07OQTBI6DVQ	0764803379	896852647	In Search of Belief	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Valuable exercise in maximizing meaning from vocal prayer	There is an often quoted maxim that expresses the fundamental rule of praying as \\"when you pray, say what you pray,\\" (mentioned in the Pieta prayer book among other places). Some people believe that this translates to a warning not to use traditional prayers, and look down upon those who do. Teresa of Avila describes vocal prayers as a rudimentary practice; the bottom rung that one uses in a path of a spiritual development.  The Apostles' Creed is an example of a prayer that many in the Christian tradition have said for over a millennium, but when something is known so well, the danger is that it can be said mechanical and vainly, without much thought. When this application occurs, the Creed is reduced to no more than a poem and ineffectual for the affirmation of faith that it was created to be.  <br /> <br />\\"In Search of Belief\\" is a personal mediation directed by Dr. Joan Chittister, in which she articulates the meaning that the words of the Apostles' Creed have in her life. She explores the beliefs that she believed the words were meant to imbue to the prayer, based on history of the early church and beliefs that were held by the Jesus' society and the first Christian communities. She draws parallels between the application of these beliefs in Jesus' life time and in early Christian society, and how she has seen them articulated in her own life experiences, and how the modern world calls us to actively implement these beliefs in the modern world.  <br /> <br />This is not a book about how you should interpret the Apostles' Creed. It is a book of how she personally interprets it and the responsibility she feels when she says the prayer, because she does not believe that God acts in a vacuum, but that God acts through all his creatures and that we are partially responsible for creating God's kingdom on earth. Chapters which I found particularly insightful were the mediations that analyzed the concepts of Goad Our Father, the sections on the Holy Sprit, the significance of Mary's role model for the Christian faith, suffering, and the implications of Pontius Pilate. The chapters are short, and despite the deep analysis with which each topic is addressed, the writing style is simple, making her exegesis easy to understand and memorable. The book is an excellent format for mediation.  <br /> <br />Even if one does not agree with all her interpretations, the book is a valuable exercise in how to find meaning in traditional prayers; it's framework of analysis can be applied to any written prayer. After reading it, it is difficult to mouth another traditional prayer without reflection and meaning, so that all future prayers become more powerful by the learning the insight obtained in this book.  <br />	2005-02-10
US	36747763	R186O7SSOKJMTQ	0960087621	254849295	The Collected Works of St. Teresa of Avila, Vol. 1 (featuring The Book of Her Life, Spiritual Testimonies and the Soliloquies) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	145	147	N	N	Keeping prayer active through various stages of life	Teresa of Avila has three popular books in print that continue to aid the spiritual development, which is impressive, considering she lived during the 1500s. A Christian mystic, the knowledge that she imparted in her writings was esteemed so highly, that she was the first woman to receive the title of \\"doctor,\\" by the Catholic Church. Religious and political leaders sought her advice. Her ideas revolutionized religious life, particularly with the emphasis on equality of all members of the order, and her teachings on cultivating a spiritual life focused on prayer, transform lives to this day. Other popular works she wrote and that are still in circulation include \\"The Interior Castle,\\" and \\"The Way of Perfection,\\" but it is best to start with her autobiography, since these both of other works refer to ideas mentioned in her autobiography. <br /> <br />There are many interpretations of her writings available on the market, but I have always found Kieran Kavanaugh's editions to be the most insightful. He prefaces the books with a background with background information about Teresa's life, the atmosphere in which she lived, and ideas of her contemporaries. The translations he provides are clear and he adds notes to explain religious and cultural practices which might seem alien to the modern reader.  The fact that his work is published through the Institute of Carmelite Studies adds an air of authenticity, since it was the order with which Teresa was affiliated and strived so hard to reform, that other editions lack. <br /> <br />This is no ordinary autobiography, as Teresa was no ordinary woman. Despite her extraordinariness, the book is written in a conversational tone, which makes her ideas easy to understand and remember; one feels as if she is talking to the reader personally. She also conveys ideas and struggles that ordinary people confront, such as not being sure if she has a calling for the religious life (in the beginning, unlike most Christian writers, she say that she never wanted to be a nun), wondering what God's plan for her is, and experiencing spiritual dryness - in which the great teacher of prayer admits to lacking the motivation to pray regularly. How she discerns solutions for these questions is inspirational for any reader. <br /> <br />The extraordinary aspect of her life revolves around her commitment to trying to learn better ways to speak to God and seek God in her life, which was the basis for her prayer life. Witnesses attended her church with the hope of seeing her rise off the floor in an ecstasy, and she does devote some of the book to defining differences between different states of ecstasy and rapture. She also lists different ways in which people may hear God speak to them; some relate to apparitions, which may interest the reader who is interested in these phenomena as they are claimed to exit in the modern day. <br /> <br />But more helpful, for the majority of us, she outlines paths of spiritual development, how sometimes the best of use can only muster enough strength to mouth prayers in difficult times, but that we should continue to persevere, because perseverance will bring spiritual development if out intention is pure. She believes that fundamentally, prayer is nothing more than a conversation with God, and through our practice of talking to God, we will learn how to hear him more clearly and speak to him with more respect and ask better questions. She outlines different sages to prayer that exist, with vocal prayer being the most basic, and mental prayer being the most developed. She articulates that people's approach to the path may vary; different passages inspire people differently, and some religious practices offer more help for some than for others, but this is appropriate, and there are many paths to the same mansion. Through all her advice, she encourages a joyful approach to living one's religion, because we should be happy to serve God with love as he loves us. <br />	2005-02-10
US	36747763	R28Y08X5VDXDOZ	0802812163	323314988	Scarred by Struggle, Transformed by Hope	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Requisite resource for comprehensive spiritual development	I was skeptical when reading the summary of the book, because Dr. Chittister writes about how the book was derived from her suffering at not being able to attend a writing program. My initial thought was that it was not a significant setback, in comparison to what I was dealing with when I purchased it. It surprised me too that this would be her \\"difficult\\" experience on which she focused, as she has confronted many severe challenges: polio as a young woman, and caring for a mother with Alzheimers' for 28 years are two examples. Besides formal education on writing being over rated, she is now a famous author. I also have a natural aversion to books that seem like self-help writing. However, once I started this book, I could not put it down until I finished it. Thank you Dr. Chittister.    The beauty of the book is that she does not dwell on why people on suffering, and how badly they hurt; if the pain is warranted considering the setback's implications for the grander scheme of life. She takes the simple premise that something hurts you and these are the some of the feelings that confront you and your reactions towards life as a result; key among these topics are isolation, exhaustion, and hopelessness. She discusses positive and negative tendencies that these feelings motivate. Isolation is not always a bad thing, but it can be detrimental for healing when it becoems a way of life. Likewise, thinking about the past has benefits because it can offer hope but it also can entrap you, depending on your mentality. It is normal to be tired, but are you sleeping too much from depression, rather than physical need? Friends are blessings in time of despair, but are you losing ability or the will to make decisions for yourself?    She discusses the book as an attempt to outline the \\"spirituality of struggle,\\" and this is a perfect description for it. She rejects the notion of God as a grand puppeteer and does not tell you that \\"it all happens for a good reason,\\" but she doesoffer advice that helps you navigate the emotional turmoil that accompanies disappointment in life, by illustrating the pitfalls and benefits of seemingly negative feelings, which enables to reader to be aware of zones that impede the healing process, and her insight helps the reader learn much about recognizing areas in which s/he can grow stronger in the process, in order to minimize the scarring.     It is not a new theme to say that suffering can make us purer or stronger; many writers form religious and philosophical background have said this before. Nietzsche too (roughly) said \\"If it doesn't kill you it makes you stronger.\\" But this information is not very helpful to people who are truly hurting, and can't help but ask, \\"Why do I need to be this strong in life, when my life is not extraordinary.\\" Dr. Chittister's approach is original in that rather than offer vague terms that it is all for the better and all God's will, she says through these emotional struggles, and she devotes a chapter to each, these are the specific lessons that we can look for, and she draw's parallels to how the story of Jacob and his struggle that left him scarred offers us insight for our own challenges and recovery.  Every one should keep a copy on this book for difficult times, or for when evaluating things form the past and how they made us who we are to day. And what we can do about it, we are unhappy with our scars. I have given copies away as gifts, to people form all religious backgrounds, and the feed back I have received has been positive.	2005-02-04
US	36747763	R31FLQNL0DK4B6	0385473826	788272201	Beirut Blues	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Poignant novel of dilemma to remain in a war zone	\\"Beirut Blues\\" is a thoughtful reflection of the decision to remain home, when home has become a war zone and the dominant concern has been reduced from an abilty to plan for a better future, to being able to survive today without being killed. This book is a haunting portrayal of living in Beirut during the Lebanese civil war. Many Lebanese immigrated during those years; knowing that leaving they had a possibilty of returning when the conflict ended.  <br /> <br />The main character of the novel, Asmaran is a single Lebanese woman, who has many opportunites to leave the country. Most of her friends and loved ones have left, and physically it would be easy for her to move to a safer nation until the dangers in Lebanon pass. One recieves the impression that she is well educated and relatively affluent, so that suporting herself elsewhere would be perfectly feasible. <br /> <br />The story is expressed through letters that she writes to people about her daily struggles and her debate about remaining in Lebanon. Some critique the writing style for being initially confusing to the reader, but I thought that the format creatively demonstrated the turmoil that one experiences when witnessing the end of the only way of life that once has ever known, and never knowing why such things occurred; the struggle to find meaning in it all and retain sanity in an absurdly insane situation. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the torment that the dilemma posed to Asmaran is not anomalic to the people who lived in Beirut during the war. Urban warfare is predicted to be more often to modus operandi for conflicts in the future. This novel is essential to comprehending the plight of many who live in war zones, and was written by an author from Beirut. The novel also helps us respect better the gravity with which many refugees have made the decision to leave their home land and seek solace in ours.	2005-02-04
US	36747763	R20AJBEMYHFS8N	1583332057	606511600	The Hip Chick's Guide to Macrobiotics: A Philosophy for achieving a Radiant Mind and a Fabulous Body	Books	5	283	289	N	N	This book convinced me to take the macro plunge	I had been considering trying macrobiotics for a few years before it became trendy and this book was released. The first books I consulted were by Kushi and incredibly dry; they made it seem too challenging; focusing on foods I could not find and appliances that needed to be bought in order to start. Then I read Jessica Porter's book and it convinced me to take the plunge.    Her writing is accesiible and she includes entertaning anecdotes from her experience with discovering macrobiotic philosophy. Hte personal conversation stlye makes the information easier to remember and apply than other texts. She makes macrobiotics seem posisble for any one, any where they live. I do not live near a thriving organic community, but she supplies a wide range of resources, online stores, helpful web sites and other useful books to help in the transition. Though she was trained at the Kushi Institute, she gives readers knowledge of the full range of approaches that exist.    Did you know that there is a macrobiotic equivalent to Reese's peanut butter cups? She gives the recipes for these, as well as other deserts for special occasions, in addition to the staple dishes that constitute a macrobiotic eating system.  I do wish tht the book had more recipes, and found the book \\"Cook Your Way to the Life You Want\\" and Cooking Whole Foods\\" by Christina Pirello excellent complements. They are not necessary additions, but Porter made me eager to read much more about macrobiotics.    Macrobiotics is learning how to balance food to meet your body's nutritional needs, which will vary depending on your daily activities and stress. It tkaes a life time to master, but Porter provides excellent ropes to help you start immediately, if you so wish. She also provides a gradual (her recommended) approach. An excess of sweets, for example, is not recommended as healthy on average, but she give recipes for safer alternatives to combat cravings caused by mass marketing campaigns of the food industry, asyou being your journey into macrobiotics.     There were times when I thought the book indulged a little too much into \\"feel the power of the universe\\" rhetoric, but the truth of the matter is that what you eat affects not only your health, but also your moods, and an improved diet helps increase your powers of perception, by making you less vitim to illenss and mood fluctuations.     There are some macro books that I have purchased and had to read again and again, because they were so complicated. This one I reread because I enjoy and am inspired by the writing.	2005-02-03
US	36747763	R3A1N2H725Y5J1	1583331808	800145508	The Macrobiotic Way: The Definitive Guide to Macrobiotic Living	Books	4	116	120	N	N	Not recommended as a first macrobiotic book	Michio Kushi is considered one of the fathers of the macrobiotic philosophy to life. This is a valuable book because it includes much information about the rationale of the eating philosophy. It does have recipes, but is more of a philosophy of eating and cooking book. I would recommend purchasing a cook book by Christina Pirello (\\"Cook Your Way to the Life you Want\\" or Cooking the Wholefoods Way\\") or Kristina Turner's \\"Self-healing Cookbook,\\" in order to have access to a wider range of recipes that include more easily found ingredients, to complement \\"The Macrobiotic Way.\\"    The Macrobiotic Way also includes guidelines to implementing macrobiotic living in other areas of life, such as reducing your exposure to electromagnetic forces, the importance of cooking with gas, water temperature for bathing, and exercises (stretches and yoga-like poses) that improve circulation to the meridians (such movements are best incorporated in Bikram's yoga series, and some vinyasa forms of the sun salutation; methods of exercises that I prefer to Kushi's static approach, but macrobiotics is finding what works best to meet your body's needs). In the realm of exercise he also highlights the benefits of walking.    This is a good reference because it has a wide range of information about the philosophy behind the macrobiotic eating system and the exercises are not often well described elsewhere. However, it was the first macrobiotic book I purchased, and when I first read it, the impression I had was macrobiotics was a very complicated approach to food, that encompassed mostly special ingredients that I could not find and that it required many special appliances and tools to start the program. I also thought that the dry writing style made it difficult to retain the information. It was not until I read Jessica Porter's \\"Hip Chick's Guide to Macrobiotics,\\" that I felt macrobiotics was accessible to every one anywhere, that I was able to return to Kushi and better understand the material. It is a good reference for some one has started macrobiotics and wants to know more, but if you are looking for a book to explain macrobiotics to the uninitiated and make them feel enthusiastic about the possibilities of the life style to empower their lives, I think Porter, Pirello, or Turner's books (in that order) are better gifts.	2005-02-03
US	36747763	R2G8Y6IZDZ8695	1569553645	840087598	Pathways in Scripture: A Book-By-Book Guide to the Spiritual Riches of the Bible (The St. Paul Center Studies in Biblical Theology and Spirituality)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Respectable reference for scripture study	This book synthesizes dominant threads or themes that occur through out the Bible. Damscus Winzen was a Benedictine monk (who founded a monsatery in the US after immigrating from Europe), whom I have never heard described as controversial, but the book does not have an imprmatur or nihil obstat.  <br /> <br />Pathways is divided into chapters that focus on each book available in the Bible, including the books designated as apocrypha by non-Catholics. Each chapter is only a few pages (usually less than 10), but it addresses the main themes and highlights of the principle stories in the book. Genesis recieves two chapters. The letters of Paul constitute one chapter. The other letters comprise another chapter. I was disappointed with the combination of New Testament letter books, because I thought that they deserved more scrutiny than to be combined.  <br /> <br />When referring to Old Testament books, Winzen uses typology to indicate how events and practices in the New Testament are foreshadowed. Likewise, when reviewing the New Testament books, he reflects how the characters'actions were prefigured in the Old Testament thorugh earlier characters of events.  <br /> <br />I wish that Winzen had included a little historical commentary in the chapters, like what was going on whent he boks were beign described, and estimates for the dates of the writing and the events. But the book is a good tool for scriptural study because his approach helps the reader appreciate the continuity of scripture as a whole, rather than nitpick isolated verses out of context. It is a usfeul tool for understanding the implications that actions have on the entire story of Christianity, but it does not concern itself with interpreting what doctrine should be from the events it illustrates; a characteristic which makes it an ideal reference for any Christian.  <br />	2005-02-01
US	36747763	RDOI7GN3X3G2	155788370X	963790721	Glow: A Prescription for Radiant Health and Beauty	Books	5	58	58	N	N	Far Beyond any basic beauty book	Do not be misled by the cover or title; becuase this is not a girly book. Guys would do well to read it too, even though the complement of \\"glowing\\" is seldom given to a man. True, there are home \\"beauty\\" remedies, but the book's principle purpose is gender neutral: to inform the reader how physical signs reflect the body's need for nutrients, and how tell the body is being fed, overfed or deprived of these nutrients.  <br /> <br />Christina Pirello teaches you how to monitor your body's needs so that you can achieve a healthier life, by explaining what causes factors like brittle nails, irritated eyes, thin hair, varicose vens, zits, warts, excessively dry or oily skin, and cellulite...to name only a few of the symptoms she addresses. She then instructs you on how to modify your diet and recommends home remedies that will not only alleviate physical imperfections, but direct you on a path that will yield a life of improved health.	2005-02-01
US	36747763	R21XI9S4MGZ9RH	0385030096	232454625	Introduction to the Devout Life (Image Classics)	Books	4	20	23	N	N	One of the best introductions to mental prayer!	Francis de Sales, who later recieved the title of \\"Doctor\\" from the Church due to his wisdom, wrote this book to advise people who live ordinary lives, and don't have the walls of a religious community (nor the support) to help them keep temptation at bay. There are chapters for any issues, conflict or spiritual difficulties that you may experience in life.<br /><br />I particularly enjoyed the first section of the book. So many saints (like Teresa of Avila, Margaret Mary, Catherine of Siena, Gerturde of Helfta) have written how valuable mental prayer is to spiritual development. Few have provided a \\"how to\\" guide in their writings. And none has provided a more succint or accessible approach. the book is worth it for this page or two alone. Like many great wirters, De Slaes, reminds us often of the need to be charitable in all we do, reassures us of God's mercy and has lovely advice about it not being our role to judge (it usurp's God's authority), unless we are a parent or officer of state who has such responsibility over individuals by law.<br /><br />Other valuable topics inlcude handling difficutlies of \\"spritual dryness,\\" when you don't feel inspired to pray or do wht you know your soul needs and how to deal with the world's comments about your religious practices (very pertinent with people asking why go to Church or why this mroal stand). Chapters on approved leisurely activities talk about avoiding activities (he specifies gambling, which gets an extra chapter) that encourage of communication, isolation form community, and moodiness. How well this can apply to certain video game addicts! The chapter on anxiety is very helpful for people going through tough times.<br /><br />The section on \\"fond relationships,\\" is a bit problematic, and is the only time that I thought the book seemed to demonstrate the date of its writing. One the one hand, it offers great advice for people trying to recover from a hurtful relationship, when he talks about how to end \\"fond relationships\\" with people. On the other hand, if women followed all of the advice about not ever forming such relationhips, then no one would ever marry, because Francis tells us earlier that women don't usually choose their husbands, and accordingly, there is no moral reason for them to meet men as friends with potential for more in Francis' time period.<br /><br />I thought his writing style was much dryer than that of Catherine of Siena or Teresa of Avila, whihc made it difficult for me to concentrate at one point (think it was the relations bit), but over all this book is amazing becuase of the scope of topics it covers and how pertinent they are to people today. True sign of great wisdom: it's timeless! Every one should own a copy as a reference.	2005-02-01
US	36747763	R39V5VPY360O09	0944203043	344620355	Divine Mercy In My Soul-Diary of Sister M. Faustina Kowalska	Books	5	114	114	N	N	Personal and Inspiring	Sister Faustina was a Polish nun who died in 1938 and was recently cannonized as a saint by the Catholic Church. I only learned of her because when my grandmother recently passed away, I was cleaning her house, and she had a drawer full of newspaper clippings conerning the story behind Faustina's cannonization process. I purchased this book to learn more. <br /> <br />The book is a compilation of thoughts on her of her life, the messages that she believed that she received from Jesus, and her struggle to institute the Divine Mercy devotion in the church. The devotion is becoming very popular in Catholic parishes, but need not be restricted to Catholics alone. It is intended for all who believe in Christ and want to know him and his message of mercy as articulated by the Passion. <br /> <br />The book is a diary, and it is personal. It is also very long, and I thought slightly repetitive towards the end, but that is not the fault of the writer. Besides, the message is beautiful.  <br /> <br />These are her personal reflections of lessons she learned during her short life, and were not intended to be read by the public, but was written by the command of her confessor, to expedite her confession process (since she felt that she had much to tell him, it was easier for him to read her accounts and then discuss them when they met). <br /> <br />This is by far one of the best accounts of private revelations ever published. Rather than vaguely say \\"according to what Jesus told me or what I saw, I believe I need to make greater sacrifices or act with more charity to those around me,\\" Faustina recounts the exact words that she believed were revealed to her, images she saw, and writes exactly what she prayed or whom she helps and how. The book is full or miracles and inspiration. <br /> <br />In a nutshell, the message of Divine Mercy is a continuation and expnsion of the messages that other mystics believed they received from God (Catherine of Siena, Teresa of Avila, Gertrudeof Helfta, Birgitta of Sweden, and Margaret Mary); that the mercy and love held in God's heart are so great that no evil that will commit is unforgiveable to those who implore his forgiveness with contrition and the intention to avoid sin in the future. She writes that it is an insult to God when think that God's mercy is not sufficient to save us if we ask him with remorse for our misdeeds becuae of the greivances they caused him and others.  <br /> <br />Like the other mystics mentioned, and similar to Therese of Lisieux, Faustina tries to live her entire life as a prayer. Praying for the needs of others acitvely, but also conducting every mundane action of daily life with the intent of offering the fruits of her labor up to God to implore his forgiveness of sins. She write much about the role of intention; that we it  is now always how much you are able to do through you actions that pleases God, but rather how much you want and try to do good. <br /> <br />The image of Divine Mercry, with Jeuss and the rays coming form his heart, was designed in according to a vision she recieved, with the symbolism that from the love of Jesus' heart come all our hope. The white ray reprsents the water that left his body when piereced by the centurion, and the red ray represents the blood. Much has been writtena bout the significance of water and blood in biblcial symbolism, in terms of redemtion, nourishment, and convenat, so it does not seems necessary to reveal more here, but she does in her book. At the bottom of the image is the sentence \\"Jesus I trust in you.\\"  <br /> <br />Faustina was given many directiosnf ro apryers, whcih are inlcuded in the book. The most popular is the meditation of the passion, as articulated in the \\"Divine Mercy Chaplet.\\" She also wrties about the value of pausing briefly at 3PM each day to reflect on the passion, ideally through the Sations of the Cross. Divine Mercy Sunday was established as a feast that falls on the Sunday after Easter each year, a time when all are particualrly encouraged to confess their sins. \\"The Essential Catholic prayer book\\" has a helpful section of the chaplet and the crux of the Divine Mercy devotion, for thsoe who might not feel up to reading the entire diary.  <br /> <br />There is much skeptism about private revelations, and probably for good reason, as many do seem to be reported. Faustina's revelations are some of the few that have been accpeted by the Catholic Church, and they follow the example of standard accepted revelations, like those at Fatima: they do not contradict Church doctrine (but rather seem to articulate Christian teaching in a more accessible format), Faustina revealed all to her confessor, she followed the advice of the her order and church superiors, and she sought no publicity. It is also interesting to note that the revelations that are most credible often occur before incidents of catastrophe, and the Nazi occupation of Poland was one of the darkest and challenging times for Poles. <br /> <br />The book is simply written and easily accessible to any reader. The entries are short and can make a good meditation study. She also includes many devotional poems, which can be used for meditation, particualrly during Lent. I was surprised by the depth of the peoms, considering her limited education. Some of them are reminiscent of work composed by John of the Cross.   <br /> <br />Faustina's life was not easy. Despite her gifts, she struggled with periods of spiritual dryness and physical illness, and her ability to keep hope and trust in God is a helpful role model for all who face difficulties in life. And I can think of no greater uplifting message than the great love that God has for all who come to him.	2005-02-01
US	36747763	R2KBO2PSPKSU1X	158617035X	96921174	Truth and Tolerance: Christian Belief and World Religions	Books	4	174	194	N	N	What is truth and why does it matter?	I bought \\"Truth and Tolerance Christian Belief and World Religions,\\" because I thought that since it was written by Cardinal Ratzinger, who is Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith in Rome, that it would be an articulation of the Catholic Church's position in regards to the relevancy of other religions for helping people along the path of salvation. If that is what you are looking for, don't buy this book, because it does not focus on this type of doctrine and will not help you. Franicis Sullivan's book \\"Salvation Outside the Church,\\" is probably still the best book on that subject, even though it is mor than ten years old and many papers have been presented by the Vatican since its publication. This book instead explores the role of what an individual's concept of truth should play in society.     By \\"truth,\\" Ratzinger refers to the values that an individual holds as reference when making decisions. He states that \\"heaven begins on Earth.\\" And he does not confine the people who are able to realize \\"truth\\" to Christians, nor even only believers in any sort of Divinity; agnostics and atheists are capable of this discernment to a degree too.     Being Christian, he believes that Christianity embodies truth in the fullest sense; that God is love and we are all called to know God as love and to spread His love. But he admits that no approach is perfect, since only God is capable of perfect knowledge of truth and love, and people are unable to understand God perfeclty. He concedes that Christianity has been susceptible to \\"diseases\\" in the past, such as the mentality that allowed to Crusaders to shed so much blood in Jerusalem.     The book is not an easy read. It is very philosophical and written in a style that is a cross between a philosophical text book and legal writing. The first section of the book briefly outlines and seeks to categorize different approaches of faith. The majority of the essays are from lectures that he has given, and the thoughtsare not outlined as clearly as they are in most works presented as papers.    First, he outlines three ways of moving beyond myths, which have been observed in human history as schools of faith: mysticism, monotheistic revolution, and enlightenment.     Monotheism is further divided into three models: spiritual monism of India, universal Christianity, and Islam. I am not quite sure why or if he decided that Islam's approach is separate from Judaism, in the model. Judaism's place is not well articulated. Islam is introduced as having a different concept than universal Christianity because Islam believes itself to be the final revelation \\"beyond Judaism and Christianity;\\" and that there is one God. But Christianity believes in a Trinity. According to this logic, I would think Judaism would be closer to Islam. Perhaps, it is the finiteness of the plan that leaves Islam unto itself. The model is not mentioned again, ad this was the biggest lack of clarity I found in the book. It did not impact my comprehension of the rest of the book, because the book is a collection of related topics, rather than a study based on incrementally important chapters.    Next, he discusses a little bit about approaches universal Christianity used as frameworks for validating (or invalidating) the elements of truth that are inherent in religions. These include: inclusivist, exclusivist, and pluralism approaches.     He spends much time defining the terms he talks about, which makes the book dry, but for the persevering reader, deeper insight is introduced for concepts such as truth, democracy, freedom, and responsibility; words that have become over used and empty by society at large, in the second part of the book.     An individual or society's collection of religious beliefs are referenced in the word \\"truth.\\" He posits that people who have more freedom, have more responsibility to make decisions with reference to truth in their life, in order  to make the world a better place. He does not believe that it is possible to create a utopia, but that we actively seek to make the world better in relative to its current state.    The book occasionally mentions Christian teaching, but not any more often than it pulls from examples of Buddhism, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, as well as from philosphers such as Platao, Socrates, Aristotle, Hegel, Kant, Marx, and many others. He empasizes the importance of not only reading \\"empty philosphy,\\" but to study the issues that matter in life: such as concepts of truth that explore the meaning of life and that help us to better discern the consequences of our decisons. Rather than promote any one perspective of values, Ratzinger uses the book to exhort the reader to acknowledge whatever values s/he has that are true and to implement them in society to improve the world, with as much freedom as our lives give us the ability to do.	2005-02-01
US	36747763	R3CW59WKI23ZYN	1566561868	955413533	On Entering the Sea: The Erotic and Other Poetry of Nizar Qabbani (Poetry Series)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Unrivalled Passionate Poetry	These are the most passioante poems ever written. Some wail after unrequited love. Some bemoan the one that got away or an opportunity missed or ruined by thier own action. Many express devotion to the love that is present.     And then there are the political poems of longing for a lost land, agony for the end of a way of life and indignation at injustice. He was a great advocate for women's rights, but that work is not included in this collection.    I do not undestand why Qabbani is not better known in the US. In my opinion, he is far superior to Neruda (who was my favorite before I knew Qabbani). Less cliches, but more direct at the same time. And you hear what he has to say and reflect \\"that is exactly my feeling in this situation, why did I not think of that expresion...could it be said in any other way?\\"     I discovered him overseas, a few days before he died. I was so distressed to hear of his death, even though I only was familiar with his work a few days. In the Arab world, musicians of all stripes and capabilities attempt to use his poems as lyrics for their music. He has poems for every mood and every problem, each of them speak straight to the soul with emotion. Even people who can not normally appreciate poetry will become obsessed with Qabbani, when reading this collection.	2005-02-01
US	36747763	R1CG7UC00U13FS	0809131390	37118747	Birgitta of Sweden: Life and Selected Writings (Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	4	31	32	N	N	More helpful for history than religious inspiration	Birgitta of Sweden, also sometimes referred to as St. Brigid of Sweden, was a Christian mystic who lived during 1303-1373. I was interested in learning more about her, because my Grandmother found Brigitta's 15 Prayers of St.Brigid, which meditate on the Passion (and which can be found in the Pieta Prayer book, published by MLOR Corporationa) particularly edifying.<br /><br />Birgitta is also known for her endeavors to reform the Church during the time when the Pope often preferred the fun of Paris to the duty of Rome. She is an unusual type for a medieval mystic, because unlike many mystics, she lived a large part of her life in the world and raised a family. After the death of her husband, she supposedly received visions from Jesus and his mother, and later founded a religous order. She was related to the Swedish royal family and offered advice to many members of nobility and the Church hierarchy. I was disappointed that the book did not discuss the bacground of her life more. There is a lengthy introduction, but most of it seemed to be concerned with semantics. I found it ironic that the dryest part of the book, was the most modern information provided.<br /><br />Apparently her writings, which were conducted to explain her visions, were compiled into seven or eight books (there were two approaches in their compilation). The translation by Marguerite Harris only includes Book 5 and Book 7. I did not realize that this book presented and incomplete collection until I received it. Hwoever, I have not seen a complete collection of her work elsewhere in English. The two books vary greatly in their style and approach.<br /><br />Book 5 is a written in a dialogue format. As Brigitta travels on horseback, she begins to pray and in her prayer she sees a vsision. The vision is of a figure asking questions, and the person receiving answers from God. The figure repsresnts a monk, but his order is not named. Each chapter in Book 5 is a series of straight questions, followed by straight anwsers. The questions are mostly philosophical in nature, although some teach basic seeds for Christian theology like the questions that pertain to \\"why should I not do what my body wants,\\" \\"why do good people suffer.\\" Some of the questions are more speculative and less likely to be a concern of modern theology, \\"like why did Jesus wait nine months to be born.\\"<br /><br />The second book, Book 7, is a series of different visions that Birgitta had over a longer period of time. Book 7 encompasses her journey form Sweden to Rome and to the Holy Land and back to Rome.<br /><br />Many of her visions in it concern responses to people who sought her advice; members of nobility, Franciscans who were having trouble with members of their order, and religious leaders. Some one familiar with the members of European nobility might enjoy this aspect of the book because of the details it gives about personal problems that real leaders of the time were having. Unlike other mystics, and even herself in Book 5, in Book 7 she names the names of the women who were having affairs and indulging in witchcraft, and gives specific titles of the church personnel and nobility who sought her advice and tells the reader what issues were addressed.<br /><br />Some of the visions relate to scenes from the life of Jesus, which she had when visiting places associated with his life in the Holy Land, which make Book 7 a useful tool for Lenten  and Advent meditation. There is an thorough description of his passion, and accounts of his birth and early life; the visits by the magi and the shepherds.<br /><br />Birgitta is often credited for the images of the cucifixion and resurrected figures of Jesus with wounds, which circualted in Europe, and in which the nails were not in the center of the hand, but closer to the wrist, as historians now believe people were crucified.<br /><br />The advice that Brigitta receives from God, to give to other people, indicates a God who is merciful and who places great emphasis on the needs for actions to be guided by charity, particularly when they are the actions of a ruler. The book has much condemnatioan for folloish and slefish rulers. These type of messages are always reassuring to read. However, I did not find her writing as inspirataional as some of her near contemporaries such as Gertrude of Helfta, or (my favorite) Catherine of Siena.<br /><br />Much of Birgitta's advice to the individuals was specific to address personal needs. Other advice was very general, so as to offer little in the way of spiritual direction. Nor was it as easy to read as Catherine of Siena and Theresa of Avila's writing. Four prayers from Birgitta were included in the appendix (two based on meditations honoring the life of Jesus; the other two with the same approach to Mary), but the popular 15 Prayers were not included.<br /><br />The book is rich in teaching about the issues and behaviors of the times, and may entertain those interested in Church history spefically or medieval histroy in general. There were period-related prejudices to weed through in her writing (most notably her attitude towards the Jews; it didn't seem to dawn on her that Jesus was Jewish, and her disdain for the Eastern Church) which the translator notes with footnotes, that the attitudes were indicative of her times. One of Birgitta's historians claimed that her writing influenced Catherine of Siena, but that seems unlikely, as Catherine was only a few years younger than her, and Birgitta's writings were not widely circualted during Catherine's times. Also, Birgitta's work seems to be far less thorough than anything Catherine wrote, but perhaps the more beneficial and timeless advice of Birgitta was included in the books that Harris' translation ommitted.	2005-01-30
US	36747763	RXMV0T2MS3R5C	0385501684	699519594	Hail, Holy Queen	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great introduction to Marian theology	Scot Hahn describes \\"Hail Holy Queen\\" as an attempt to explain the position that Mary the mother of Jesus holds in Catholic dogma. In doing so, he draws his denfense from Biblical sources and the early fathers, breifly explainging the justifiation for the doctrine of the communion of saints and illustrating the differences between veneration and using righteous people as role models for life, and bewteen worshipping idols. <br /> <br />He opens the book with a flashback of how once he was embarrassed on his mother as she picked him up from school, and draws paralels to how he neglected the role that Mary played in Jesus's life and as setting an example of how to please God, much in the same way that he failed to honor his mother for the role she played in his life. For those who might be annoyed with Hahn's use of scenes from his past to explain the relevance of lessons form relgious doctrine; be assured that this book has far fewer trips down memory lane, which I feel some times annoy and distract the reader. <br /> <br />Finsihing the book, even those who have been regularly exposed (and even rpacticed) Catholic dogma are left with a deper appreciation of and better ability to defend the not only historical but also biblical roots of the communion of saints, and Mary's role in the church - particularly as enshrined in the feasts of the Immacculate Conception and the Assumption. One is also left with a greater desire to honor Mary, which Hahn helps us to being by including an appendix that provides a brief summary of popular Marian prayers and explanation of the rosary (although the Luminous mysteries are not included due to the date at which the book was published).	2005-01-28
US	36747763	R2CZOS7FU4528H	0879736933	500852717	Where is That in the Bible?	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Every Catholic Should Own this book	The art of defending beliefs soley by scriptural reference is not one historically well developed in the Catholic church. Many times growing up, I would ask my mother or a faith formation teacher why Catholics believe something, and the response would be becuse the Church has always said that.     The fact is that the Church would not say something that was not supported by scripture, but when thrust into the Bible Belt as a teen, and constantly forced to defend my beliefs which were attacked as \\"unbiblical,\\" I was not properly prepared for any such dialogue. Only saying \\"I know it's somewhere in the Bible\\" does not convince many minds, particularly when the people arguing with you appear to knwo that Bible more thoroughly and insist they never heard of anything to justify your belief.     I wish I had this book then. It is a great handbook for explaining the biblical roots of Catholic beliefs that generally come under attack or that seem difficult to explain by scritural references. Topics included (but are not limited to) the papcy, calling priests \\"father,\\" communion of saints, Mary, relics, statues, purgatory, slavation, sola sciptura, and the sacraments. All faith formation prgrams should give a copy to all candidates for confirmation (if not a bit sooner) and RCIA. Also, every parent should have a copy so tht when the questions come up, they can quickly find the answers, if they do not remmebr the sources off hand. It also is helpful to people thining about leaving or returning to the Catholic Church, as well as those thinking about entering.    Patrick Madrid describes this book as the fruit of his study of scrpiture. That it comprises notes he made in the margins of his Bible to defend and explain Catholic beliefs. The format is similar to an encyclopedia and has indexes on the side of the pages about the topics, so that it is easy to find support for topics that are the source of your (or others') questions. Each topics has a brief explanation on the doctrine of belief, and usually includes the references to where the belief is articulated in the Cathechism, directing the reader to where the teaching is explained in greater deatil. Then a list of biblical references follows, so the reader can see how the cathechism pulled these teachings out of scripture.     The book also includes scriptural references to provide defense against attacks by Morman, Jehovak Witnesses, and details about the Inquistion.     The book focuses on scriptural references that are shared with the Protestant Bible. Meaning, that the Catholic Bible has more references than the book indicates to support its beliefs, because it includes a more comprehensive collection of Old Testament books, but Madrid wisely does not use these references because they would not have much validity with Prostestants who don't consider those books \\"biblical.\\"      It is difficult for me to decide whether this is a four star rating or five stars. I wish the book was longer and had more explanations, but at the same time I value its compact size, whcih can easily be carried in a purse or pocket. At times I felt that some of the references used to validate a doctrine were tenuous at best, but upon those occasions, there were many other references on the subject that supported the Church's persepctive more clearly. I also wished at times that Madrid more fully explained the relationship between the scripture verses cited and the doctirne, but doing so would have produced a different sort of book, one long and more difficult to find the references in a pinch. As this book's accessible format is one of its strongest assets, it seems wrong to penalize it by giving it less a star; particularly when the argument involves wanting more of a good thing.	2005-01-28
US	36747763	R1UVMV0549JNAA	0945668155	130220900	The Self-Healing Cookbook:  Whole Foods To Balance Body, Mind and Moods	Books	4	85	86	N	N	Learn about helping yourself and family through macrobiotics	The first macrobiotic cook book I read was by Kushi, and I find Kristina Turner's book far more approachable and accessible, than any thing by Kushi. She uses many recipes whose ingredients can be found any where, even out in the country far from thriving organic communites. I heard of her from Jessica Porter's \\"Hip Chick's Guide to Macrobiotics.\\"    She organizes information about food and its relationship to moods and physical ailments in neat, easy to remember and easy to read tables. Her introduction to sea weed, is very helpful, as some cook books assume every person understands the difference between wakame, nori, and kombu, among others - so many macro-ccokbooks start throwing ingredients at you that are unfamiliar and you have no idea how to identify them or even why to try them. I liek the fact too that she gives many varieties for miso soup. She also includes a chapter on deserts, so people don't feel deprived, and that there are goodies for the kids.    There are many exercises introduced in the cook book (in fact this is more of a work book than a typical cook book) that are deisigned to help you realize the connection between food and your body, and to help you learn how to choose what is best for you, based on learning how what feels right and why. These exercises can be done with children, if you are switching a family's diet or, as Turner recommends, the book can be done with a friend to make it more fun. Not partner is require though.    Learning macrobiotics should be as much as learning about you as learning about food. Macrobiotics is the art of balancing, and to a degree every one is an individual, and diets should not be a carbon copy of each other because individuals differ too. Turner recognizes this.    Drawbacks for the books were its unprofessional style. It looks like it was done on a typewriter. I also thought that the recipes introduced by Christina Pirello were more family-friendly (meaning easier to cook and less foreign looking) andoffered a greater variety than Turner's selections.	2005-01-27
US	36747763	R1WMPUFRYNZ0GN	0385501706	153082953	Lord, Have Mercy: The Healing Power of Confession	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Analysis of confession through the ages	Hahn's \\"Lord Have Mercy,\\" is a wonderful introduction to the significance of the sacrament of confession. He begins with the Bible and looks at the references made in the book of Leviticus to rituals used to confess sins, and draws paralles with what Jeus's ritual for confession was meant to be, based on writings in the New Teastament.    I give the book for stars rather than five, becuase I was hoping that he would illustrate more biblical references to why confession must be practiced as a ritual, based on the writings in the New Testament. I have struggled much with my church's teaching, because the gospels (loosely) say, Jesus told the Apostles \\"if you forgive their sins, they are fogiven,\\" but the gospel does not say only if you forgive them then they are forgiven.      Most of Hahan's arguments for confession as a ritual come from the fact that the New Covenant was an improved version of the fundamentals contained in the Old Covenant, and that ritulized confession was a cornerstone of the Old Covenant, and no where abrogated as a practice by Jesus. I never noticed that until he said it, and this is a great point. The Bible does not specify that confession is instrumental in obtaining necessary graces; that is a teaching of the Church based on tradition. I wish that more proof was provided from the Bible, but one of the main distinctions between Catholicsm and Fundamentalism is the refusal of Catholics to endorse a sola scriptura perspective, but to consider the tradition that occurred while the Bible was being pieced together. However, based on Hahn's other books, I expected more support from scripture. Most of his support comes from the Cathechism. This book did not revolutionize the way I perceive confession, in the way that the \\"Lamb's Supper\\" revolutionized the way I perceive the mass.       I also regretted that the book did not say what to do, when confession as a sacrament is disappearing from your church. How to organize a process to bring it back. Andwhile he says much about the grace, psychological release, and spiritual direction one receives from a good confession, he left out an important dynamic; that confession is how a priest and eventually a dioscese learns how relevant and realistic implementing church doctrine is in the loves of the faithful. So many people argue that the church is out of touch with reality, but they do not go to confession regularly to say \\"these are my weeknesses, and this is what I don't understand or struggle with in terms of church law.\\" A priest could never release any information of an individual's sins, but he can take the knowledge of what are the issues in the community to the bishop and better knowledge leads to better policies and relations, and more helpful homilies.       The book includes and appendix with many versions of Act of Contrition Prayers, and an extensive examination of conscience to help you make the most out of your confessionary experience.	2005-01-27
US	36747763	R3BV01YVZTXMBT	0867165251	606369028	Twelve Apostolic Women	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent Introdcution to Women in the New Testament	In \\"Twelve Apostolic Women\\" Joanne Turpin provides profilles for twelve women who committed their lives to promoting the message of Christ, in different ways depending on their roles and abilties in society. These are real historical characters, and Turpin illustrates the sacrifices and significance that their decisions to accept the message of the gospel had on their lives.     Trupin recreates the world in which they lived, based on historical data of the household structure and power dynamics that existed during their lives. She does not put words into their mouths, as is often the case with perspectives on women of Biblical times. Sometimes a character, such as the wife of Peter, has no known name. In such cases, Turpin illustrates the archaeological evidence that exists to indicate where she lvied and the role she played in promoting Chritianity, by opening her house to the early Christian community, offering hopsitality, and traveling with her husband to offer him support in his mission.    The book helps flesh out a family tree of those who supported Jesus' early ministry, focusing on characters such as Mary, wife of Cleopas (whom many believe to be the wife of Joseph's brother), and Salome, the mother of the \\"sons of thunder,\\" James and John. It also helps biblical readers appreciate pervasiveness of Jesus's ministry, which included members of court such as Joanna, the wife of Chuza. It profiels the many different Marys that were present in Jeus's time, which helped me a great deal, because through the ages there has been some confusion in this regards, with Mary of Bethany often being combined with Mary of Magdalene.     Each woman addressed in this book sacrificed her time and transformed her identity to different degrees, in order to be faithful to and help promote the mission Jesus. Some gave up their places in society, some opened their houses, some surrendered their inheritance and livelihood. The book provides an excellent example of how there are many way to surrender your life to God, with whatever talents you have; as every person is different, with different gifts and no two ways are exactly the same.    Each chapter is organized around a woman's story. The story about the women is relatively brief, becuase the book is based on facts, and concrete facts are limited, but the brevity of the chapters do not diminish the significance of the lessons that the story can offer to modern women espeically, but also to all modern Christians. Each chapter concludes with a list of \\"faith sharing topics\\" so that readers can explore the relevance of lessons from each woman's life example to the readers' lifes today; to learn how to these women's lives  speaks to them as role models. The last section of each chapter is a prayer, asking the particular character profiled to join with the reader in seeking God's to help to adopt virtues demonstrated by the character in the reader's own life today.    Each character is based in the Bible; some are more preevalent than others and have a larger role in scripture than others. The writing style is simple, and the book would work well with faith formation programs for middle schoolers and teens. The simplicity is not a disadvantage becuase it helps the information that the reader incovers stick in the mind, so that in the future, whenever the name is mentioned, the reader is easily able to recall details fo the character's life. The book could also be a resource for a Bible study group for adults who are seeking to better understand the models of leadership that are established for women in the Bible. Or it makes an ideal personal nightly meditation reading; one chapter before bed. I wish that the book was longer, and hpe that Turpin does more profiles of biblical women role models in the future.	2005-01-27
US	36747763	R2YODCR5TU2J56	096426109X	772113641	Any Friend of God's Is a Friend of Mine: A Biblical and Historical Explanation of the Catholic Doctrine of the Communion of Saints	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Best Source on the topic	Growing up Catholic, I never gave the pharse \\"communion of saints\\" that I regularly professed as part of the Creed during mass much thought or analysis. I thought it merely meant there were saints and that was that. Then my parents moved to the Bible Belt, where false representations of Catholic doctrine were presented and attacked by non-Catholics particularly through here endless use of circulars.     Patrick Madrid's book provides an acccessible and succint summary of the Communion of Saints doctrine. The book can easily be read in an afternoon, but it does not omit any essential detail or fail to address any of the common arguments presented against the doctrine. Ideal for Catholics who want to know mroe about their faith (particualrly thsoe who have had their faith attacked and need help with the defense) or for non-Catholics who want to understand the role of saints in Christianity according to the real Catholic perspective.    Catholics do not worship saints or Mary, but believe that death does not separate the souls dedicated to Christ. That the righteous dead are just as much a member of the living church as the living. There are biblical foundations for this belief, which Madrid offers in detail. One of the conseuqeunces of this belief is the docrtine that saints pray with us at mass and may pray for our individual intentions.    The Communion of Saints doctrine is the belief that we can and should ask they dead the pray for us, juat as we ask the living to pray for us. It is not the pracitice of implying that anyone can take over the role of mediator, which was exclusively given to Jesus Christ, but it is the belief that just as friends on earth can pray for us to Jesus, so can the saints - including Mary. Madrid has a special chapter on Mary and the misunderstandings that surround her. The book also includes a section on the concept of Purgatory and its bilical origins and role in tradition.    The use of statues of saints to decorate churches has biblical roots in the use of angels and other images that were used to decorate the Temple built by Solomon.  The use of iamges of saints in religious icons representation in stain glass, is no different than how people on earth carry photos of their loved ones as reminders; except for the fact that images of saints remind us how to be more pleasing to God because of the role model of their lives.      This is a valuable resource which should be used by teachers of faith formation classes and RCIA.	2005-01-27
US	36747763	R3K6909GM4A4SL	1931018170	758525031	Scripture Matters: Essays on Reading the Bible from the Heart of the Church	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Excellent Analytical Resource	\\"Scripture Matters,\\" by Scott Hahn is a collection of essays written on approaches and perspectives that can be used to study the Bible. I was a bit skeptical about the book, when I noted that one of the essays referred to the late founder of Opus Dei, because I have reservations about some of that organization's teaching. However, the essay, was not an exhortation of what one should find in terms of ideas in the Bible, but rather techniques that any one could apply in their Bible study to better reatin the wisdom that God speaks to any particular soul who studies the scripture. <br /> <br />The essay topics are not histories on when the books of the Bible may have been written. Nor do the essays, for the most part (the essay about fathers and the one about the forgiven prostitute do pull meaning from a story and are exceptions), concern themselves with telling people what instruction they should take from any part of the Bible.  <br /> <br />Instead, the essays introduce vocabulary related to basic Biblical exegesis and predominantly have topics about techniques that any reader can employ in their personal study; such as typology, dividing the Bible into three time periods (age of patrirachs, age of law, age of spiritual law or Jesus Christ) for reference; and using four senses for discernment of scripture (one literal and three spiritual). None of the analytical frameworks proposed contradict teaching of the Cathechism, and the last device mentioned is straiht from the Cathechism. However, the essays in the book will enlghten any Bible scholar's approach to scripture, particulalry if they are beginning Biblical scholar, regardless if they consider themselves members of the Catholic faith.	2005-01-23
US	36747763	R2K16JNOZCDP9S	0060613998	793584624	Wisdom Distilled from the Daily: Living the Rule of St. Benedict Today	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An Amazing Amount of Wisdom and Enlightenment	The Catholic Church has a tradition of conferring the title of \\"doctor,\\" upon people posthumorously, who have contributed much to others' learning of faith. The more I read from Joan Chittister, the greater the impression I have that I am reviewing the work of a living doctor. <br /> <br />In regards to one of the reviews that labeled some of the information in the book as slightly dated, I am at a loss for where such a shortcoming occurred. The books deals with the timeles issue of spirituality, and I felt that all of the refferences she made were pertinent to any time, including the present.   <br /> <br />In regards for a comment made by a reviewer that referred to Chittister as \\"Sr. Issues,\\" which implied that she bemoans the status of women, true she mentions situations in which women's lives have obstacles to spirituality, some of which are institutionally impsoed, but no less often than tshe mentions men, and the poor and the rich. And she would be religiously irresponsible if she neglected to cite examples of where people could implement gospel teachings to address some of the social ills or \\"issues\\" that our confronts our society today.  <br /> <br />In short, this is a book for everyone, to inspire and uplift all readers and to provide guidance to everyone for how to develop a spiritual life. It is full of lucid observations such as her distinction between praying people and spiritual people \\"There is nothing easier than to lead people down the path of prayer forms without ever asking them what goes on inside them as a result. At the end, consequently it is possible to get a praying person; it is not alwyas possibel to get a spiritual person. Praying people get their prayers in and wait for God somehow miraculously to deliver them from their private deomns. Spiritual people expect the demons. What they look for is a way to find God even there.\\"  <br /> <br />The book is written in reference to a Christian document, but the guidelines are not exclusive forChristians. Chittister's view, based on her interpretation of the Rule of St. Benedict, is that spirituality can not be developed in a vacuum, only through prayer, or only through attending church, or only through working with people, but that needs to be honed through balancing all aspects of life.  <br /> <br />Balance is the key. She elaborates on different facets of life that one should listen to and conduct attentively in order to realize enlightenment. She does not offer exact perscriptions for what dosage of each component a person needs, because the requirements depend on a person's individual situation and needs.  <br /> <br />Among these components are daily spiritual reading (\\"lectio\\") with an attitude of seeking \\"not so much and attempt to know God in history or Jesus in Israel as much as it is an attempt to know God in my life and Jesus in me;\\" contemplation, as \\"not a vacation from life.Contemplation is the pursuit of meaning...Those who find the will of God every where and feel the presence of God any where are the real contemplatives;\\" spiritual prayer; applying the gospel to all decisions in life such as what you buy and how your work; developing a sense of community with your neighbors, your colleagues and your family(a key center piece of which is a family meal).  <br /> <br />Benedictine spirituality focuses much on interactions of people with each other and their environemt; listening to God's voice and learning to recognize it in every one you meet, and every event that occurs. It is an ideal framework for people today who do not live as hermits because it is based on the idea of a members of a community receiving reinforcement from the group for their weeknesses and sharing their strengths with the group. A community can be found any where.  <br /> <br />I found the book beautiful and inspiring and would recommend it to any one who is looking for a resource that will help them with spiritual growth and the art of discerning God's voice. The tone is easy and converstional, and provides a flexible blue print for the pursuit of spirituality in any type of life style.	2005-01-23
US	36747763	R2VY0QFEWE76PT	0764800310	839967604	The Practice of the Love of Jesus Christ (A Liguori Classic)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	How Much Jesus Love Us and How We can Love Him	Alphonsus Liguori is one of the \\"doctors\\" of the Church. He lived during the late 1700s, and his work was written to inspire everyone one; not just one group, such as only the laity or a group of nuns, or a house of monks. The work is not preachy in tone, but written in a gentle explanatory style. He synthesizes knowlege from a variety of Christian sources.    This book is absolutely beautiful; phyisically with the font and cover, and content-wise, with the meaning of the text. The size makes it easily portable.     It is a wonderful tool for meditation. Each chapter contains brief paragraphs that contain exclamations of how much God loves us as demonstrated through Jesus' life, based on actions written in the Bible and their interpretations from writings of the early Christians.  Paragraphs within each chapter also instruct us how we can adopt practices of various virtue in order to model our life in a way that pleases Jesus, to correspond with how much Jesus loves us. How to love with patience or how to love without pride...the chpaters correlate with the passage in 1 Corinthinians Chapter 13 about it means to love.    The different nature of the paragraphs work in tandemn to make you feel loved, and then to advise you how to implement this love in your life. It is a great feel-good book. Reading it makes one feel more valued by Jesus, and in turn, more eager to demonstrate to Jesus how appreciative one is of such value.     A great book to read any time, particularly if the phyiscal creatures in your life have you feeling a bit blue and unappreciated. But especially helpful to prepare for Lenten sacrifices or to cultivate an atitude of welcome for any holiday period.	2005-01-21
US	36747763	R1GOW9HUHQ5ASG	0895552957	726949969	The Autobiography of Saint Margaret Mary	Books	2	47	66	N	N	Much to disturb and little to inspire	Margaret Mary Alacoque was a French nun and mystic, whom allegedly received instructions from of Jesus in the 17th century. I have alawys been inspired by decotions to Jesus's love and mercy, and think it is amazing that so many similar messages have been received by people throughout the ages, telling the world to have faith and implore in God's mercy and love as represented by the image sacred heart; an image whose physical representation may slightly change over time in order to impress the curent audience more deeply, but the core of the message never changes. People dedicated to promoting devotion to the heart of Jesus, who encouraged people to implore God's love and mercry, include but are not limited to Gertrude of Helfa, Birgitta of Sweden, Teresa of Avila, Therese of Liseux, and Faustina.<br /><br />I have heard much about how the devotion to that Sacred Heart, was most clearly articulated by Margaret Mary, and was interested in reading her autobiography, in order to learn more about the messages that she received and to see how the compared to those received by Faustina and her message of Divine Mercy. Like the work of Faustina, Mary Margaret's book was written in order to help her with confession. The introduction say that she implored one of the sisters to destroy the book upon her death.<br /><br />However unlike Faustina's book, Mary Margaret's autobiography contains little very few details about the nature of the messages she recieved in regards to devotion to the sacred heart. She often says that she \\"received advice\\" and leaves it at that, not specifying what the advice might be. She has a few details about her early life, but little commentary about life in the convent and how she interacted with people.<br /><br />This is a personal diary of hers, and where she mostly recorded her feelings about things but she often did not define what the things were, excpet in vague notions - \\"a conversation\\" here, \\"an act\\" there. It is vauge, but that is not fault of the author, as she was writing only for herself. However, the concequence is that the book provides very little information of substance from which a reader could draw inspiration or creat a role model.  Faustina's diary was personal too, but she included much specific information about her dialogues with Jesus, and devotional practices recommended to her.<br /><br />Margaret Mary's writing style is not as easy to read nor as accessible, as if it were a conversation, as are the styles that characterize the work of Teresa of Avila, Catherine of Siena, or even John of the Cross seemed more clear. As a reader I also felt very much an intruder by reading the book.<br /><br />She does go on at leangth about different forms of mortification which she performed that were probably not uncommon during her life time, but I found incredibly disturbing as a modern reader. I appreciate the fact that people, particuarly those in religious orders and who were likely to become saints, felt unworthy of Jesus' suffering and crucifixion, so that they often looked for ways to humiliate themselves and cause themselves pain so that they could share in his sufferings. She talks about eating vomit of a sister and doing something with feces from some one else who had dyssentary. I don't know if the images are so striking because they are the few occasions in the book where she elaborates details to events, or if it is because the nature of the acts. I would not want this book in a house with children, who are likely to read deatials of saints for role models or inspiration.<br /><br />The book has very few instructions about devotional practices to the Sacred Heart. If you are looking for more details about the messages given to Margaret Mary from Jesus and how to please God through life, I think that Fr. Colombiere, one of Margaret Mary's spiritual directors, published a book that contains such information. It is interesting to note that Faustina's spiritual director died on the aniversary of  Columbiere's death.  I feel terrible leaving a negative commenary on a book by a saint, but the book was not at all what I anticipated, and I don't want other people to buy it as I did, thinking that it contained a certain type of guidance that it lacks. When I finished the book, the only images that remained were not apects of Margaret Mary's life that I felt I could imitate or a new source of prayers for a bedrock of devotion (the book didcontain prayers, but they are prayers found in most Catholic prayer books), but instead images of mortification practices she adopted.died on the aniversary of  Columbiere's death.  I feel terrible leaving a negative commenary on a book by a saint, but the book was not at all what I anticipated, and I don't want other people to buy it as I did, thinking that it contained a certain type of guidance that it lacks. When I finished the book, the only images that remained were not apects of Margaret Mary's life that I felt I could imitate or a new source of prayers for a bedrock of devotion (the book didcontain prayers, but they are prayers found in most Catholic prayer books), but instead images of mortification practices she adopted.  <br />	2005-01-21
US	36747763	R1LGEKOJF6VIKM	0195182669	474728880	Islam: The Straight Path Updated with New Epilogue, 3rd edition	Books	5	54	64	N	N	The Truth About Islam	Many books these days claim to give readers \\"a true depiction,\\" of Islam, but most of them fail to live up to their promise. \\"Islam:The Straight Path,\\" is an exception to that rule.  <br /> <br />Esposito's book is the most objective overview on Islamic beliefs published, and is required reading for any one who wants to understand prevalent beliefs and virtues held in esteem, embraced and practiced by Islamic societies in countries across the world - not only where Islam is the dominant religion, but also in countries such as the US and UK where Islam is a religion of a minority. Esposito highlights how the interpretation and articulation of values may differ depending on cultural settings. <br /> <br />This book is often a standard core text for survey courses on Islamic societies, Islamic history and basic relgion courses for good reason. It is comprehesive in its analysis and provides a great wealth of information in very accessible form. No serious student of world affairs or religious dialogue can afford to ignore this book.	2005-01-21
US	36747763	R2WIAU7HNNWD4K	0809122332	590202130	Catherine of Siena : The Dialogue (Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	5	63	64	N	N	Most Inspirational book aside from the Bible	I highly recommend this book to any person seeking to be inspired to improve their lives, not through fear of chatisement, but due to being motivated by love. This is the first book that I have ever read, where I wanted to write the author, or in this case it would be the interpretor, and to thank her for the wisdom and insight that her work gave me. Just reflecting on the book gives me a warm feeling. <br /> <br />Catherine of Siena was a mystic who claimed to receive advice from God, and who also worked miracles in her time. This book relates the advice in an incredibly accessiblt tone. She writes about issues related to every aspect of life, our association with one another, and how to please God. Her advice is helpful to people from all walks of life, the lay person and religious as well. <br /> <br />Central to her message is the great love that God has for us all. That God loved us before we knew and loved Him, and the onyl way to give likewise such love to strangers who know not and possibly will not love us. She writes too about one of the greatest ways that we can offend God is by not believing that he has sufficient mercy to forgive us our sins, if we are contrite and ask him for forgiveness, because this belief contradicts the notion that God's mercy and love for us is great. She writes that sin is horrible becuase it ofends God's goodness, and it harms our neighbor.  <br /> <br />She cites many biblical sources that reflect the advice that she has recieved. It seems cliche to hail a book as life-changing but this book greatly transformed me and my relationship with God for the better. It is an inspiring and uplifting read, and may be particularly useful to those experiencing spiritual dryness. <br />	2005-01-21
US	36747763	R1DMZQ26JGVKQG	0892838299	418041840	A Father Who Keeps His Promises: God's Covenant Love in Scripture	Books	5	77	78	N	N	Great Reading for Lent, Wonderful Synthesis of Scriptures	\\"A Father Who Keeps his Promises\\" is an excellent book for some one who wants to dive into scripture study for the first time, and for the more experienced scripture reader, who might want to broaden their scope of analysis. It analyzes the theme of the covenant between God and his people throughout the history of the Bible, beginning with Adam and ending with Jesus. The book is worth its price for Hahn's intrepretaiton of the culpability of Eve and Adam alone. <br /> <br />Obviously this is a lot of territory and time to cover. The book is an emphasis on themes, and does not analyze every minute detail or story behind the writing, or provide information about the writers. People searching for critical commentaries on the evolution of scripture as it was written should look elsewhere. <br /> <br />This book analyses how God progressively created covenants between himself and with an individual, then with families, then with a nation and finally with the world. It is a never-ending cyclical story of love, committment, reproach, forgiveness, and redemption. The book preaches love and hope.  <br /> <br />Due to space constraints, everything in the Bible is not covered in thorough detail, but only the dominant main characters. However, nuances of the stories that involve the main characters are examined to significant depths, as well as typologies are occasioanlly stressed, to connect threads of thought in the New Testament or later parts of the Old Testament that are introduced, or prefigured in the Old Testament. <br /> <br />Hahn includes excperts from the essential passages to which he refers, so it is not necessary to have a Bible to grasp the main points of the text, but a Bible is an excellent reference to further investigate the nuances that Hahn highlights. I have been reading the Bible for years, but have been greatly enriched by Hahn's insight; particularly with the story of the fall from Eden and the trickery of Jacob over Esau. <br /> <br />Although Hahn islisted as a \\"Catholic Apologist,\\" this book is a great resource for all Christians. I highly recommend it to any one who reads the scripture, the beginners and the experienced alike. It might also appeal to Jews who are curious to explore how Christians relate the New Covenant as an extension and evolution of Jewish traditions.	2005-01-21
US	36747763	RXU8J7NMD33Y6	0814628729	720236931	By What Authority?: Primer on Scripture, the Magisterium, and the Sense of the Faithful	Books	5	25	32	N	N	Should be obligatory reading for RCIA & Confirmation classes	This is a fabulous book that presents challenging topics in easily digestible chapters. Each chapter concludes with a list of ideas realted to the chapters that are currently being debated, with perspetives from both sides of the debate,  and a list of further reading sources.    Thank you Richard Gaillardetz for fleshing out principles and entities, which to me always seemed nebulous. It is easier to respect and feel that I belong to a community of the faithful, when I possess a better definition of the the government of the faithful and my obligations as a member of such a community.    Gaillardetz traces the history of authority as it has been articulated by the Chruch. He looks at the orgin of Scripture as a source, and the bodies that have always claimed to protect Scripture. He presents a concrete skeleton of the magisterium, and differentiates between the many different sources of teachings presented form the Church's offices, and which are more binding than others, and in what terms.     I thought the chapter on the role of an individual's conscience in accepting the churchs' ruling on issues which were not given as infallible teachings was most valuable. Gaillardetz outlines the importance of distinguishing the reasons for disagreement and how to discern whether they are motivated from issues with authority in general, weeknesses on the behalf of the individual, or a pure difference in moral interpretation. In concordance with the Catholic Catechism he advises that we are ultimately the ones who suffer the most of we commit immoral acts, and we must follow our conscience when it is speaking to us on morality. This is solid Catholic teaching, contrary to what a reviewer noted below, and something that more should be written about, to countreact the tendency for those who follow their conscience as being derisively called \\"cafeteria Catholics.\\"     Rather than present theology as a static monolithic institution, Gaillardetz presents it as a dialogue between the entire living church; not just the exclusive domain of the hierarchical clergy. His perspective is refreshing, and uplifting. Hopefully many more works by him will follow.	2005-01-21
US	36747763	R1EESHU65JSTKO	0809133326	274109574	The Herald of Divine Love (Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Illuminating passages from the Dark Ages in Germany	Gertrude of Helfta, also known as Gertrude the Great or St. Gertrude, was one of earliest Christian mystics and a stigmatist who lived in a Benedictine monastery in present-day Germany from 1256-1301. This book comprises a substantial introduction from the translater, which provides information about the life and tiems of Gertrude. Gertrude's tstimonies are divided into three chapters, referred to as books.<br /><br />The first book has no name, and was most likely dictated to a contemporary of hers. It is the briefest of the three sections, and primarily provides details about Gertrude's virtues, and the high opinion many had of her advice during her life time, most likely in order to give greater credence to the next two books, which ofer more specific advice from Gertrude and describe visions she received.<br /><br />The second book, is titled \\"The Memorial Abundance of Divine Sweetness,\\" and the third book is titled \\"Herald of Divine Love.\\" The second book appears to be written directly by Gerturde, and the third, again appears to be dectated to another person. These sections play greater attention to specific advice that Gertude believes she recieved from Jesus, but rather than being a book solely concerned with words for advice directly (as is the writing style of mystics like Theresa of Avila and Catherine of Siena), she also dedicates much space to describing visions that she had form reflections on the Passion of Christ and scenes from the Nativity. A greater abundance focuses on images form the Passion, in which she analyzes the importance of colors and positions in the image.<br /><br />Gertrude is one of the earliest Christian writers to encourage devotion to the heart of Jesus, and the reflection of the great power of his love as represented by the image of his heart. although some of the book is exhortive in nature and provdes guidance for development of spirituality in love, much of the book is concerned with the relevance of images from the life of Jesus and the lessons they give us, which would make it particularly ideal reading for Lent. her images and advice are frequently referenced mostly to passages in the Bible, but ocasionally refer to teachings of the early fathers of Christianity as well.<br /><br />Much of the advice of Theres of Lisieux is prefigured in Gertrude's writings, such as the idea that any act can be opffered up to God. And that it is not the greatness of the acts that matter, as much as the intention within which they are pursued. She believes that people who pursue works of labor in the world are equally as capable of being holy and pleasing God as those who dedicates themselves to a contemplative life. She stressed the importance of charity and humility in life, and seeking refuge in God's love; the heart of God (messages later echoed by Margaret Mary and Faustina).<br /><br />In addition to images, and behavioral advice, on how one should proceed to increase one's cultiattion of virtues, the book contains many prayers, such as a prayer for the sleepless, and devotions in which she uses psalms to meditate on different attributes of Jesus. I was suprised however, with the amont of prayers that have been atrributed to her for the dying and the souls in purgatory, that no such devotions were listed in here.fe of Jesus and the lessons they give us, which would make it particularly ideal reading for Lent. her images and advice are frequently referenced mostly to passages in the Bible, but ocasionally refer to teachings of the early fathers of Christianity as well. <br /> <br />Much of the advice of Theres of Lisieux is prefigured in Gertrude's writings, such as the idea that any act can be opffered up to God. And that it is not the greatness of the acts that matter, as much as the intention within which they are pursued. She believes that people who pursue works of labor in the world are equally as capable of being holy and pleasing God as those who dedicates themselves to a contemplative life. She stressed the importance of charity and humility in life, and seeking refuge in God's love; the heart of God (messages later echoed by Margaret Mary and Faustina).    <br /> <br />In addition to images, and behavioral advice, on how one should proceed to increase one's cultiattion of virtues, the book contains many prayers, such as a prayer for the sleepless, and devotions in which she uses psalms to meditate on different attributes of Jesus. I was suprised however, with the amont of prayers that have been atrributed to her for the dying and the souls in purgatory, that no such devotions were listed in here.	2005-01-02
US	36747763	R1Q1FX9T5H5J6U	076480488X	646324286	The Essential Catholic Prayer Book: A Collection of Private and Community Prayers (Redemptorist Pastoral Publication)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Amazing prayer book	It is difficult for me decide if this is the best prayer book ever. \\"Queen of the Apostles Prayerbook\\" is in a close tie with it.     The \\"Essential Catholic Prayer Book\\" is the best prayer book to give some one as a gift or to purchase for yourself if you are seeking gudiance in your prayer life, or are looking for new ways to pray, or returning to prayer after a long absence. It includes many traditional staple prayers and devotions, and those that are less well known, such as the Divine Mercy prayers, the Chaplet for the Infant of Prague, and the most recent set of mysteries that were added to the rosary.       \\"The Essential Prayer Book's\\" advantage over the \\"Queen of the Apostles Prayerbook\\" is its inclusion of essays on methods of prayers, which provide helpful guidelines. This section encompasses such topics as: how scripture can complement prayer life, how meditatively praying with chaplets differs from basic vocal prayers, and the use of meditation as a source of prayer. Great information for some one who does not have the time or familiarity with writings of people like Theresa of Avila, John of the Crosss or other inspired authors who have written books on approaches of prayer. It also has a great dictionary of terms. This would be a wonderful gift for parishes to give to their faith formation classes.	2004-12-28
US	36747763	R2TUXNQMT8KP0N	0819862088	416503093	Queen Of Apostles Prayerbook	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Remarkable collection of prayers for modern challenges	It is difficult for me decide if this is the best prayer book ever. \\"The Essential Catholic Prayer Book: A Collection of Private and Community Prayers (Redemptorist Pastoral Publication)\\" is in a close tie with it.     \\"The Queen of The Apostle prayer book\\" is more comprehensive with prayers for adults for modern problems and for concerns that face their children or people they work with. While I wish it included the Divine Mercy chaplet prayers, and it lacks information about the the most recently added rosary mysteries, it does have a comprehensive collection of traditional prayers, such as the explanation behind the rosary, the chaplet for Infant of Prague, and devotions for the Sacred Heart, and several others too numerous to name.    Its advantage over the \\"Essential Catholic Prayer Book,\\" is the inclusion of prayers for specific modern concerns such as the media, single mothers, people who are depressed, the homeless, people who live alone, people with chemical depndencies, abused children, and many others. I received one before going to college as a gift, misplaced it over the years through several moves, and searched through many prayer books before I decided that this one has the broadest scope. I wish the paper back version were available, because the leather version, which I had to order to replace it, is more chuncky and does not tuck into trendy hand bags as neatly.     A positive aspect of the thick pages is that if you wish to underline prayer lines that speak to you or one of the several passages included for meditation or background information, the ink will not bleed through the pages. It includes background information about devotions and different passages about Christian topics such as angels, the power of the Holy Spirit, Mary as a role model, and the symbolism of the crucifix. It also includes lists of passages in scripture for reflection on certain topics.	2004-12-28
US	36747763	R3LTASKNL4DAXS	0385248334	850567352	The New Jerusalem Bible, Reader's Edition (The Complete Text of the Ancient Canon of the Scriptures)	Books	3	24	30	N	N	Study Guide Praise is only for Hard back editions	I wonder if the descriptions on Amazon's web site only refer to the hard back version, because I bought the paper back version of this Bible expecting a study Bible. I needed a study Bible. It was advertised as a study Bible. Reviewers lauded the extensive notes. Hence, I was severely disappointed when my copy arrived to learn that the paper back version has almost no notes at all; only a brief pages to describe an upcoming book, and the descriptions are vague.     There are virtually no foot notes to expand on any ideas or explain passages. The only foot notes are references to passages with similar thesm saying just the Bible location for related ideas.     The translation is beautiful, and I love the use of the names of God in the Old Testament, because I believe that if we were not suppose to have the information, than we would not have been given it. The many names increases the poetry. But I was not looking for a purely poetic version of the Bible; I wanted something to increase my knowledge and help me discern deeper meainings of the text. As it is this edition only gives me poetic words, and no background or alternative ideas to work with the passages. I am looking for another Bible again. I wish there were a study guide available for puchase that comprised the notes used in the New American Bible Study edition.	2004-12-27
US	36747763	R26R7AUYHOX550	1560254831	404105787	The Gun and the Olive Branch: The Roots of Violence in the Middle East (Nation Books)	Books	5	22	31	N	N	maybe the best objective portrayal on the market	David Hirst's book presents one of the most unobjective protrayals of the Arab-Israeli conflict available on the US market, which is perhaps, why this book has become a classic in its field. This book should be required reading for anyone who wants to understand the true reason why foreign countries hate American foregin policy, as Israel continues to receive more US aid than any other country and yet the Israeli government continues to perpetuate attrocities, such as those included in this book.     Hirch lists circumstances as they occured and as they confim, to human rights law and norms, that are ratified by the international community. The book is an excellent reference source, and it is rare for a book to contain so much information and be such an easy page turner at the same time.    He (nor the Guardian, but that newspaper is not on review here) is neither pro-Arab, nor anti-Jew, but his writing occasionally has an anti-zionist slant (not the same as anti-semitic, since Arabs are Semites too; nor the same as Ani-Jew, though there is even a movement in the US for dictionaries to equate the word anti-Semitic as anti-Zionist). The slant is understandable, considering the vast horrors that have been committed and continue to be commited in the named of Zionism.	2004-04-29
US	36747763	R2MDB5AW9E043V	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	2	25	38	N	N	Not what I expected	I was looking for a simple introduction-to-Buddhism-practice type book. This book comprises several essays that express the author's thoughts regarding concepts such as dualism, control, nothingness. However, he does not explain defintions for these topics.<br /><br />There is very little information about actually practicing Buddhism, which is too bad for me because there are no teachers near where I live. I suppose the essays could be good guidance for meditation, but I'm not sure if all Buddhism or just Suzuki's approach adovates using no thoughts for meditation. I just finished the book and I'm not even positive about that elementary aspect of Buddhism - how to sit; is his way the only way or recommendation. The lack of a train of thought made it difficult for me to retain his advice.<br /><br />Personally, I recieved more guidance from articles in the magzine \\"Shambhala Sun,\\" but was hoping for a basic source of knowledge to fill in the gaps about practicing. He introduced a sitting style, but that was about all the help I recieved from this book. Maybe some one with more knowledge of Buddhism would benefit more from this book.	2004-03-26
US	36747763	R2TI3M550K2F7	0754804836	809317538	Essential Middle Eastern Cooking: Authentic Recipes from an Intriguing Cuisine (Contemporary Kitchen)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wish I Found it Sooner	I love Middle Eastern food, in general, but I am sometimes disappointed when one place's hummous is not as good as another...or the variyng qualities of bab ghanoush available at restaurants. This book has the best recipes for every dish that I am familiar witha nd introduced me to new dishes that have become new favorites for me as welll. I particularly like the fish baked in tahini, which I've not seen at any restuarnat. Unfortunately, I recently moved to a region of the south US that sorely lacks Middle Eastern eatries, but this book has been a life saver. <br />The instricutions are simple and easy to follow, and the ingredients are well explained and usually acessible even where I live now. There are picutres to give a better idea about foods that may initially be unfamilar to you. I wish that the book included a few more vegetarian alternatives, but in general, am so happy with the product, that my only genuine complaint is aimed at myself - for not having bought the book earlier.	2004-03-17
US	36747763	R358MLVXCU5894	039474067X	254566048	Orientalism	Books	4	11	20	N	N	Eye Opening	Simply put an amazing book. Said's point is not to accuse the &quot;West&quot;, for which he is derided by one of Amazon's &quot;spotlighted reviewers&quot; here, but instead Said seeks to explain how the history that has been written about the &quot;Middle East&quot; is biased. <br />All history is written filtered through the perspective of a writer, so all stories from the past have a slant. Not only the distant past, but current events as they are reported are colored too by perspectives of the reporter too. This book explores how an identity of the &quot;Middle East&quot; were created by colonial powers; an identity which was not real for the people from the region. <br />This book was a ground breaking phenomena because it was the first of its kind to explore how images of the &quot;Middle East&quot; have been misinterpreted by the &quot;Western scholars;&quot; a grievance that is still echoed by people in the Middle East today.	2004-03-17
US	36747763	R292GDF15RAA50	0878402918	64498616	Al-Kitaab fii Ta'allum al-'Arabiyya: A Textbook for Beginning Arabic, Part One	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Best on The Market for All Age Groups	I have studied Arabic at a variety of schools (graduate, undergrauate, professional programs) with different text books, and I found this book the be the most help. Most Arabic text books are preoccupied with wasting chapters on describiing school life and leaving very little time to develop vocabulary for adult/non-student situations, such as talking about personal lives, jobs, political and eocnomic situations, and comprehending news stories.  <br />In this series you follow people through daily lives, not only students, but people who speak about immigrations and failed relationships and fellowships and jobs and moving and being lonely. It's an awesome scope of context for vocabulary development, and the stories are linked in a way that provides a good basis for retaining the vocubulary accumulated. <br />This is also an easy book to follow on its own, in the absence of an Arabic teacher; if a course is not avaiulable near your or too expensive at the momment. The audio cassettes/cd are vital but the video cassetes are not, and the stories told on video tapes are the same used for the oral comprehension exercises form the video tapes. <br />Other Arabic series I tried (or were forced to use in classes) were Ahlan wa Salaam, which had an abyssmal vocabulary, focused entirely on student's perspecitves and gave almost no information about the gramtical structure; and the Cambridge (orange book) textbook for Elmentary Arabic, which lacked oral exercises. Both books provided answers, but due to poor editing, many erors were in the provided answers, which caused much confusion for students until a teacher was available for a dialogue(the Cambridge book was much worse in that apsect, but covered more grammatical details).	2004-03-16
US	36747763	R13XOQ8KFE6DES	0300058543	800817132	Ahlan wa Sahlan: Functional Modern Standard Arabic for Beginners	Books	1	22	28	N	N	Horrendous waste of money	This is the worst Arabic text book I have ever been forced to use. It wasn't an academic institution that recommended it, but an institute in Washington, DC, where I enrolled in a class to brush up my Arabic.     The vocabulary was completely limited to what only a student or tourist would need to ask as questions mostly for basic survival, and was not the least bit useful for adult context or business scenarios or reading in Arabic periodicals.    Some of the book's answers, which were provided in an appendix were invalidated by the teacher as being incorrect.     The grammar details are the worst on the market, and there was very little oral interaction available with the series to resemble topics that would come up in normal conversation. The stories were not engaging to me, as they all centered around undergraduate student life and the \\"first time away from home\\" topics.    Too bad, because it probably has the prettiest cover on the Arabic book market, but if you want to learn Arabic, or if you want you students to find useful vocabulary from your course  through an engaging approach, then use \\"A Textbook for Beginning Arabic.\\"	2004-03-16
US	36747763	R2L54QVHCDMM07	087840788X	485984209	Modern Iraqi Arabic: A Textbook	Books	1	4	13	N	N	Buy it and retain your illiteracy	When I first saw this book I was excited to see a text book that specialized in a dialect, whcih has more similarities to the countries that I have studied (Levantine) than Egpytian Arabic. However, I was very disappointed to learn that the book does not use the Arabic alphabet. What the heck? <br />Granted, spelling is still difficult for me in this language, but I am not going to lay out money for a book which will not help me learn to read like the locals in the dialect that it purports to teach. I thought the point of books was to read. With this approach, that of ignoring the alphabet, you can finish a course and still be an illiterate in the langauge.	2004-03-16
