US	36751810	R2BU6BG8K8TKF	0471263893	942859835	Behind the Burqa: Our Life in Afghanistan and How We Escaped to Freedom	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A glimpse into two horrific lives	I read a negative review on here, that I was unhappy to see. This book focuses on \\"Salima\\" and \\"Hala\\" two Afghani sisters, both opressed by different wars and regimes at different times in Afghanistan. They are 16 years apart. Reading that Salima had a \\"pampered life\\" in one of the reviews was quite disturbing to me. Considering that she fought for women's rights underground in a country that supressed them, that she was house bound and beat by an abusive father, Locked into her room and then threatened with guns by her brother, I would hardly call this a \\"pampered life\\". She continued to risk for the women she served. Later the book focuses on her horribly physical abusive relationship with her husband. This is also part of the culture, where it is considered \\"okay\\" to beat a woman. Her heroism and story was amazing. <br />   Hala, 16 years younger suffered a completely different type of abuse, under the mujaheedin and then the rule of the Taliban. After being beat and her life threatened she had to flee and claim political assylum in the United States. This book was so heart felt and thought provoking, that for two nights I have stayed up until 4 in the morning reading. I say it is a \\"must read\\".	2005-10-04
US	36751810	RJZLY8SHRB0MU	0767913019	570518701	Veiled Courage: Inside the Afghan Women's Resistance	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Courageous women of Afghanistan	I have been reading many books about Afghanistan's Women's Resistance Movement with a focus on RAWA (The Revolutionary Association for the women of Afghanistan).  <br />  This book is another fascinating read that introduces the reader to the life of underground politics for these women run in a chaotic, archaic society. These women are intellegent, courageous and powerful. They are also very lucky to have the wonderful male supporters that they do.  <br />  The individualized stories were fascinating to read. The only thing I somewhat disliked about the book compared to the other books I have read on RAWA is that the author's personal and political opinions come forth too much compared to some of the other books I have read. I would also recommend Meena, and Zoya's story, which are individualized stories that contain less of the author and focus more on the people.	2005-10-02
US	36751810	RQ76SXZZ4J42K	0385507836	109689582	Prisoners of Hope: The Story of Our Captivity and Freedom in Afghanistan	Books	4	7	8	N	N	This book was a fascinating read	I am surprised at some of the negative reviews this book has received. I found it so interesting I couldn't put it down. I didn't find that their mission was about forcing religion on anybody. These courageous young women chose to go into a war torn country run by terrorists to help what they considered to be the poorest of the poor. They did not force religion on anybody, they only shared when asked, and always made it clear that it was very risky. They did a lot of charitable work, and a lot of their work was not focused on religion at all. They helped handicapped children, helped widows get pension, even helped a family start a business. They volunteered at a hospital, even learned to speak in the common used language. They donated food, read to children, and prayed for others when asked. This book was not about two women forcing Christianity on Muslims, it is about two courageous women, going to help opressed and starving people in a war torn country with the risk of their lives. I am sure not many U.S. citizens are willing to do that.  <br />  I also am speaking objectively when I say I don't believe they were forcing their religious beliefs on the Muslim community because I do not share the same religious beliefs that these women do. I still found it a fascinating book, and commend their courage.  <br />  One poor choice was their faces on the cover. They are so darned pretty and middle class looking that you find it hard to believe the suffering they went through in a Taliban prison. Just a thought!!	2005-09-28
US	36751810	R3U56PH8S4RW8D	031230689X	592279900	Meena, Heroine of Afghanistan: The Martyr Who Founded RAWA, the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Heroine, unforgettable..	I don't think I have ever read a book as moving as the story of Meena and her life and formation of the feminist group RAWA, (Revolutionary Association for the women of Afghanistan.       This very young woman did so much, risking her life daily to change the face of war torn Afghanistan. Even after her young unexpected death, her mission of hope for a better future in Afghanistan lives on today. Her dream was that one day her beloved country would be in peace and that men and women could live equally. To this day, even after the destruction of the Taliban, Afghanistan and it's people suffer. When you read this book you will be amazed at how much this young woman accomplished in her life. It is unbelievable.       Many of us think of Afghanistan and muslims and we see the face of the enemy, Osama Bin Laden and the horrible Fundementalists that tore up their country. I think it should be required reading in the American schools and when we think of Afghanistan we should see the beautiful face of Meena, who believes in freedom, democracy and that everyone should be given a chance. I will never forget being touched by the life of Meena.	2005-09-18
US	36751810	R2UZTOHL6I07YR	0739317067	786383328	My Life	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Too much info and not enough at the same time!!	I have been listening to the Audio CD version that I checked out at the library. ( I would recommend that above a purchase)  <br />  Now one thing I have always admired about Clinton is his ability to captivate an audience with his words. He is a dynamite speaker, but in everything this man says I always wondered who is he? Knowing who he is,always seemed just beyond reach, and you have to admit MANY are curious.  <br />  Maybe I am not being fair giving this 3 stars, as I have only made it painfully to disc 10 on a 21 disc series. Once again this man tries to captivate with his long winded stories, saying a lot, but telling us nothing. I still don't feel like I know or understand the man any better, and I thought that was the intention of this book.  <br />   I am sorry, but they are painfully dull stories about people he's met, and sports he's played, and life in Arkansas, and visiting New Orleans, he talks about early life with Hillary, but it all sounds so surface. I just am not hearing what this man is trying to tell me. He goes on and on and on about, well absolutely nothing, and I decided I can't continue anymore with it. Too dull, and not not enough information. It may be for you, but not for me.	2005-09-14
US	36751810	R2BQ8VE0SXAY6I	1932783091	199862444	The Change Your Life Challenge: A 70 Day Life Makeover Program for Women	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Sorry, just not me...	I hate to give a well intentioned book three stars, but I have to agree with the previous reviewer, this book is just too much! Now it may be the book for you, and I did gain some useful tools, but frankly a 70 day program is a bit too much for me. You are supposed to read only one very brief 1-2 pages section, that is broken up over 70 days. You are not supposed to cut ahead. The requirements are to purchase a lot of supplies, which I frankly didn't have the money for, and just plain didn't want to follow the system that required those purchases. Most people that seek out reading books on organization want to start tackling. This book is painfully slow, and some of the suggestions didn't apply to me. If you are a Mom, that is frantic and works full time, you may find the slow pace of the read perfect. If you are one of the types that likes to do it all, this may be the book for you. But I am not a parent, I am a procrastinator, and not seeking to do less, but get more done.I just couldn't relate to juggling 12 hour work days, taking the daughter to doctors appointments, being on every club under the sun all while trying to manage a home. This just isn't me. I do enjoy Brooke Noel's website tremendously, and do highly recommend that.  <br />  If you are a procrastinator like I am and looking to get your life into order,I would highly recommend Marla Ciley's Sink Reflections. I found that more helpful.	2005-09-07
US	36751810	R2DKNFUDOEW7E1	0060097833	19808942	Zoya's Story: An Afghan Woman's Struggle for Freedom	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Touching, saddening, awakening...	Having grown up with the priviledges of living in the United States one can only imagine the devestation this amazing young woman has gone through in her short, inspiring life.  <br />  At the tender age of 7, this courageous girl already started her early beginnings helping her mother work for RAWA (Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan). Living in a country that had been overtaken by the Russians in what they called \\"the puppet regime\\", one couldn't imagine that life could get worse in this destitute country, ravaged by war and poverty. \\"The bleeding wound\\" Gorbachav called it.  <br />  Zoya's graphic, heroic and saddening story told with such detail brings you to a life, I would say you \\"could just imagine\\", but I can't imagine that life. orphaned at a young age, under two controlling fundamentalist Moslem regimes, life in Afghanistan only seems to grow worse. Under the control of the Taliban, you will read of the most inhumane, torturous treatment. The taking of lives. I always knew how awful the Taliban was, but I never knew from an individual's personal experience what it was REALLY like to live there.  <br />  This incredible young woman has done so much for the woman and people of Afghanistan, helping refugees, teaching women to read and write in a country where 90% of the women are illiterate, spreading the words of freedom, where her life can be taken at any time. Zoya is a true hero and inspiration.  <br />  There is one line in the book that I will never forget, and I believe it is how Zoya truelly loves and feels for her country. It is a line from an old Afghan folklore \\"I am ready to die for my love, but I want my love to be ready to die for my country.\\" This is the passion Zoya lives with on her crusade to make life better for people in Afghanistan.	2005-08-31
US	36751810	R1L8ECC16ERE8J	076790690X	403402516	The Vegetarian 5-Ingredient Gourmet: 250 Simple Recipes and Dozens of Healthy Menus for Eating Well Every Day	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Even you can cook!!	If any of you are like me, and don't know how, and can't stand the idea of cooking, this is a great beginner's book.(Even a great book for the seasoned cook!) Yes this book contains almost 250 recipes that only contain 5 ingredients. We are not talking canned food either. These are yummy recipes, and won't harm the budget. Even if you are not vegetarian, I think this is a book that you can enjoy. It definitely has made me feel like I can make something edible, and I don't have to spend a lot of time or money. Not only edible, but really tasty!!	2005-08-27
US	36751810	R8W0A4HK0Y7X6	0975599518	192748477	Natural Cures "They" Don't Want You to Know about	Books	5	38	67	N	N	Shame, shame shame...	on the reviewers. This is my third review of this book. I at first left a somewhat negative review, until I incorporated the changes Mr. Trudeau suggests, and am living a much healthier (and thinner) life. People are just outright getting mean, I guess everyone needs a target. I think it may be good for Kevin, all this controversy is keeping it a #1 bestseller!! look at the sales rank on Amazon, it has stayed at 13 and 14 for over a month, despite the reviews. My guess is the reviews created some curiousity!! <br />  Now why this is a good book. If anyone bought this book with the expectation that this man has the hidden cure to every disease out there, well may need to retrace their steps. I think more stories of him miraculously curing aids and cancer would be out there! BUT, for the beginner, this is an excellent book on Health and Nutrition, and an insight into the deception the FDA keeps of some of the dangers in the so called foods we indulge in everyday. Why bash a book that is exposing things that should be a wake up call? As we so casually pop in our microwaved meal, and crack the can to our diet coke, why are 66% of the population in the United States obese? Why do children now have adult onset diabetes? Why has the rate of cancer INCREASED, inspite of new treatments, not decreased over the last 50 years. Why is Alzheimers so prevalent now, and not years ago? It is an industry! Sick people generate money. I have been in the health care field for 12 years, and if anything I can say I know this. If we are going to bash a man that is exposing the corruption of our Food and Drug administration,and pharmaceutical companies, so we can continue to support our failing health care system, then go right ahead. Pop in your Microwaved meal, slurp down your perscriptions, cheer on with the FDA, throw your aspartame into your coffee, crack open your soda can, and in 5, 10, or 20 years from now when you may not be as healthy, think back to this book, and realize that asmuch as you may have despised this man maybe he did have something to say.	2005-08-26
US	36751810	R2HDKZ6RKG75PR	097656680X	991969614	If It's Not Food...Don't Eat It!: The No-Nonsense Guide to an Eating-for-Health Lifestyle	Books	5	10	10	N	N	If you care about your health read this book!	This book is a must read for anyone that cares about what they put into their mouth. \\"we are what we eat..\\" or what we don't. Unfortunately in the United States fresh fruits and vegetables have become almost foreign to us. We are not concerned that most of what we buy in the grocery store is loaded with ingredients that are not even pronouncable, much less are they actually food! With the rise of juvenille diabetes, heart disease, and an increase in cancer, not a decrease with all the treatments, this book brings us right back to basics. Start with your diet. Start with the food given to us by nature.Read the boxes. If an ingredient has more than two syllabels it probably isn't food.  <br />  Kelly Hayford has a great writing style, and an excellent sense of humour so you won't find this book a dry or boring detailed account of what we should eat. You may actually laugh reading this book. Another excellent bonus is each page contains an excerpt from different books, and medical and scientific studies of astounding facts to the lack of health in this nation.(Make sure to read the margins). I highly recommend this book and am so surprised it is not a bestseller.	2005-08-25
US	36751810	R3FSZPW5ITV66W	0671797255	815833390	Divorce Busting: A Step-by-Step Approach to Making Your Marriage Loving Again	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Very helpful for any relationship having problems	I got this book not because I was headed for divorce, but having a difficult time in my marriage as happens to everyone that has been married for awhile. As a married person, I know my thoughts of \\"should I leave this?\\" are not all that uncommon in today's society. I was at a place where I was really asking myself that question. This book was really a lifesaver for me and my marriage when I got it. Michelle Weiner states \\"No marriage is an island\\".Some marital difficulties can be precipitate by happenings outside the marriage. It is easiest to blame the one's we are close to! This book helped me see how I myself often pointed accusational fingers at my husband, when I was truelly not always the one willing to work on things. I often blamed him when other areas of my life were not going well. My relationship has actually improved greatly for the better since I read this book which was six months ago. I was able to view Michele's philosophy that all marriages are salvagable, and most are worth saving. I saw mine that way. I remind myself of all the reasons why I married my husband, and keep myself in check now. I believe that this book is very helpful, and especially if a person wants to try to save a marriage that looks like it is heading for divorce.	2005-08-19
US	36751810	R114MX15WFHKKX	B0001OOTXO	505763827	Food and Loathing: A Lament	Books	5	3	6	N	N	An honest account of woman's struggle to be thin and her depths of despair	First off I want to say that Betsy Lerner is absolutely a gifted writer. The words just flow from her, painting a portrait of her life, so realistic, that it is almost painful to read, and many times IS painful to read.  <br />  I think this book would be helpful for any woman that not only struggles with the idea of being fat, but also for women who suffer from depression. As is all too familiar with many women, Betsy's self worth throughout her youthful years was placed on a number on the scale. If only certain quotas of perfection can be met, then I am \\"okay\\". Binge eating disorder is as serious and painful as all the other eating disorders. Betsy suffers throughout her life with this horrendous eating disorder. Having suffered myself as well as suffering from Anorexia and bulemia, I know all sides. They are ALL the same. Different manifestations, but come from the same place. \\"I am not worthy\\", \\"I am fat and ugly\\", yes thin people do say that too! By no means was the author ever morbidly obese based on the weights she records in the book, but her eating disorder no less tragic, no less serious. I think this book is important on shedding light into this eating disorder, that has often been put on the back burner of the eating disorders, dismissed as the fat people that just over indulge. She shows us the pain, the despair and the desperation that go with it. I think it was a fascinating read.	2005-08-16
US	36751810	RVFIJS5HRRBUE	0425204138	727288860	The Maker's Diet	Books	4	118	140	N	N	Although it was an interesting book, not a diet I can stick with	Jordan Rubin's story of recovery is absolutely amazing. Dying at the age of mere 21, at 6'2 and 111 pounds,wheelchair bound and hopeless,  his transformation and recovery is a miracle to read about. Having been failed by modern medicine this young man turned to a diet based on principles he found in the bible. In this diet he found healing. I am sure with this healthy lifestyle there are many that can find health and recovery. Because I believe there are probably people that can benefit from this book, I gave it four stars. But for me, it just didn't do it.<br /><br />  First off it is very centered on a protien, animal based diet. I thought there would be more influence on fruit, seeds and grains. It is a very rigid program for a lifetime. Cheating, forget it! He suggests if you absolutely must eat things that are off the list, do it within an hours time to avoid any ill effects. As far as items off the list, we aren't just talking cheetos and soda. We are talking cow's milk cheese (goats cheese and milk is a must), and whole grain bread. Sprouted bread is okay in limited portions. Forget about eating out at restaraunts. Veggies are to be organic, and meats are to be grass fed. Plus for the rest of your life you will need to take the Garden of life supplements, which do run a hefty price. I am sure if I was in a desperate place, trying to survive like Mr. Rubin I would do all it took to survive, and if it meant being on this limiting diet I would do it. But just to attempt to be healthier, it requires giving up too many of the things in life that make life fun, and I just can't do that forever.	2005-08-16
US	36751810	RKEUBI6OPW19O	0762734914	971879721	Fun with the Family Las Vegas, 3rd (Fun with the Family Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Best Book on Vegas with kids	I have to say when I was on a hunt for books on Vegas with kids, I went through quite a few in the bookstore. I found that most of them completed half the book with how to book a flight, how to pack a suitcase, where to stay, what to bring. I already had those things done. I needed to know what to do with a 10 year old boy in vegas! I had no clue! This book offers so many ideas it is incredible. There is way more for kids than you ever dreamed possible, from theme parks, to water parks, to arcades, to circuses, to concerts for kids. The list is endless. There is no way you will do it all, but with this book you can outline, what sounds like fun and what sounds like something you want to do, and have an idea before you go to Vegas. Talk to the kids and see what they like. Definitely a must have if you are bringing kids along!	2005-08-11
US	36751810	R2NN0XKZ3S0A5S	0452268184	51351217	When Food Is Love: Exploring the Relationship Between Eating and Intimacy	Books	3	99	120	N	N	Not for me, maybe for you	I hate giving any book less than a 5 star rating, but I must be honest, this book was not what I needed. I am not saying that it is not for you! It is mainly an autobiographical account of the author's difficult childhood and trouble with intimacy due to growing up with an abusive mother. There is a little bit here and there about compulsive eating, but mainly with the philosophy that there is no other reason a person compulsively over eats than having had something very traumatic happen to them at the time they began compulsively overeating or having a bad childhood. Her philosophy is that it is very important to review all the old stuff, and talk about it and relive it and explore it and analyze it. I know this is a popular mode of thinking, but having grown up in an abusive home myself,and spending years in therapy I realized that enough was enough already. It happened. Life can go on. You don't have to be a mess forever because of it. Or stay stuck in old wounds. I did find her vulnerability and openess touching, and if these are the philosophies you hold, then this may be the book for you. It just wasn't for me.	2005-08-10
US	36751810	RV216JDSYU4OZ	0609605801	933138196	Learning Curves: Living Your Life in Full and with Style	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Living your life with style	I got this book based on a review I read on another website. I sure made the right choice! This book was written for full figured women, but I believe any woman that feels uncomfortable in her own skin can benefit from this book. Michele Weston provides us with exercises to help us discover what keeps us in a place of not loving ourselves. Each chapter has stories of women that have dealt with body issues and learned to love themselves,not based on body size, but on who they are.  <br />  Unfortunately like many women who get into their thirties I gained. The gain was fast. Fifty pounds in a year. I was suddenly in a new world. I was plus sized. Filled with self loathing, getting dressed became the biggest nightmare. I really didn't care about my clothes anymore. I just wanted to be covered.  <br />  The greatest thing this book has taught me is that I don't have to hide in ugly ill fitting clothes. I have defined my own style. I have lost 10 pounds, but it has been a long process. I don't know where I will end up, but with the help of this book I have designed a wardrobe that is me, and feels good on me. I am making myself look good with who I am now, and what I have to offer. I am not living in \\"someday I will be thin\\". This book has really helped me define that.	2005-08-08
US	36751810	R352Z86H0PB9II	0312308779	972875800	Entre Nous: A Woman's Guide To Finding Her Inner French Girl	Books	5	13	16	N	N	What a fun read for a change!!	This book was really a fun read. Debra Ollivier not only spent 10 years living in France, so she is well informed of the customs, but she also has a gifted sense of humour. I really needed this book when I found it. She pokes fun at the American traditions of stuff grease ladden golden arched foods in our mouths while talking on the cell phone and drinking our starbucks racing to the next sale. Non!! French women have Pizzaz, style and a sense of themselves. I was reading one review that made me chuckle, talking about how his wife choses perfume over showers and walks around in silky mu-mus.This book is about French culture, how women are taught to respect the home and authority, how French children are reared and how this helps to create the Women they are. In America we are constantly fixated on the new, becoming better, improving. In France this isn't a forced pursuit, but as natural as aging wine or cheese. They are constantly becoming. Self help? non! These women turn to their elders, more experienced for advice. I felt like I had a great little taste of French life in this book(oh not to mention the food. oh la la !!) I hope you will enjoy it as much as I did.	2005-08-05
US	36751810	R13Y045RGX9VTI	1592330460	329781436	The Martini Diet: The Self-Indulgent Way to a Thinner, More Fabulous You!	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Self Indulgence is a good Thing	The title of this book can be a little deceptive. I thought somehow I was going to be reading my way into Martini drinking weight loss. That is not at all the case in this fun little book. \\"Gin\\" Sanders uses Martinis as a pun, a metaphor for good times, the martini glass for measurements, and does believe that an occasional martini is a wonderful indulgence.  <br />  This book was designed for women. It is about following three simple principles 1. Eat real food, good food 2. Eat smaller amounts of that good food 3. Eat only at meal times.(no snacking) It sounds so simple, but it makes perfect sense.  <br />  Gin is funny, factual and gives you good reasons to love yourself and treat yourself well.  <br />  This is not a quick weight loss routine. This is not about low carbing, low fatting, counting calories or points or fat grams. This is about eating like a grown up with a plate in front of you, a napkin, eat small, eat slow.  <br />  No more golden arches, slurping down thick shakey things with the motor running, while cramming down fried potatoes and talking on the cell phone. Gin reminds us that food is an art,eating is an art.  <br />  No more fat free filler foods, with ingredients that sound like poison, no more packaged stuff, no more drive through stuff, no more fruity dyed stuff. This is common sense real food, to eat, real drinks to enjoy and a real life to live and love and pamper.	2005-07-28
US	36751810	R1JCH6C0O6W5ME	0399526544	725681493	Book Finds:  How to Find, Buy, and Sell Used and Rare Books (Revised)	Books	4	42	45	N	N	A little on the fence about this book...	I am a little unsure of how to rate this book. I first off want to say that it is so well and pleasantly written that you don't want to put it down. This author's love of books is so passionate and evident that you feel drawn into the thrill of his wonderful finds as he goes on his treasure hunts.  <br />  As far as useful information, I would say yes, for the rare and antiquarian book collector. <br />... But I bought this book with the desire to find information on how to find find, buy and sell used books. I don't feel like i got a whole lot of information there. He does talk about used bookstore hopping, but I was hoping to get a little more information than that. This book is also very dated in my opinion. He really dislikes the internet, and his information on the internet, even though revised and updated, seems really out of date. I can't believe he never once mentions Amazon! He does mention ebay,and other internet book/buying/selling arenas, but how can you not mention Amazon, the website that has most effected the bookselling industry?  <br /> To sum it up if you are interested in just beginning book collecting of rare books, or if you just want to read a well written book by someone who loves to read, this book is for you.  <br /> If you are looking to find information on how to get good books, information on selling on the internet, really this won't be helpful.  <br /> I hope my review was a little helpful!	2005-07-13
US	36751810	R12WZ29VU8Y07G	0801058279	477775034	Treasured Friends: Finding and Keeping True Friendships	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Lovely and Insightful	Treasured Friends by Ann Hibbard is one of the best books I have ever read on friendship. It is a Christian based book, and is a book written for women, but I feel no matter what your spiritual beliefs are, you can gain something valuable from this book.  <br /> Not only are there lovely and personal stories about friendship, but there are insightful lessons on how to find friends, and how to keep them. The most helpful part of the book for me were the chapters on Dissapointments and Transformations. Having gone through a loss of a life long friend, and after reading many books on friendship, I never really found the right words about the loss and moving on. In reading this book and reading about other women's experience with such losses, I was finally able to put the pieces together and forgive myself and my friend.  <br /> So many books focus on romantic relationships and their losses, and so few capture the importance of friendship and the devestation and hurt their losses can bring. This book was a true comfort.  <br /> A Treasure that I will read again.	2005-07-06
US	36751810	RYZBUW00SHVWO	1570713383	307169771	Unstoppable: 45 Powerful Stories of Perseverance and Triumph from People Just Like You	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Encouraging and Empowering	What a fascinating book Cynthia Kersey wrote. I could not put it down. This book contains stories that are so inspirational and amazing about Real people that have overcome incredible obstacles and made their dreams a reality. These are people that believed all things possible, some of them famous and some of them not so well known, but all of them have an amazing story. Unbelievably several of them were children. I could not believe the difference even some children have made in this World. In a World where the Media is dominated by negative stories, and we are bombarded with negative images all day, We almost forget that there are amazing people that do amazing things everyday.Kersey reminds us that life is an adventure. She also has sections about herself and advice on how to create your own Unstoppable life. I would also recommend her Book Unstoppable Women for both women and men. She is truelly inspiring!!	2005-05-20
US	36751810	R1RBEIUYKDQKP6	1594861048	446255343	Unstoppable Women: Achieve Any Breakthrough Goal in 30 Days	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Truelly inspiring book!	This book is life transforming!It is Honestly one of the most motivating books I have ever read. Cynthia Kersey lays out a practical plan to help you define a goal and work towards it on a 30 day plan. You may intend to complete the goal in 30 days, or use the 30 days as a jump start to form a new habit. Her program is very practical. Each day you set up an action plan. At the end of the day you go over your accomplishments towards your goal, and write down the things you are proud of that you did that day. You also answer the question, Have I inspired someone else on their Unstoppable Journey?  <br />  Not only am I achieving my 30 day goal, but I see every night how much I have done and am capable of doing.  <br />  When I answer the question if I have inspired someone else that day, it has made me stop and look at the difference I make daily in other people's lives no matter how big or small. It has helped me feel valuable. <br />  But truelly the best part of the book is at the end of each chapter there is a real life story about individual women who have beat all odds, and made incredible journeys. When you read their stories you really will feel like anything is possible. I highly recommend this book!	2005-05-08
US	36751810	R6L0JQ8JHSLB2	0553382179	365202529	Sink Reflections: Overwhelmed? Disorganized? Living in Chaos? Discover the Secrets That Have Changed the Lives of More Than Half a Million Families...	Books	5	16	19	N	N	If you are disorganized this is the best book you can read!	I came across Flylady's website about a month ago, which has been a life saver. I decided to purchase her book. What a wonderful book that can make a true difference in the disorganizeds life. Marla Cilley, or The Flylady pointed out something I never thought about before living in my chaos and piles, it is related to how we feel about ourselves.She makes it a priority that we don't even begin our days and routines, until we are up dressed and shoes on. What a difference that has made!!Then we start with shining our sinks. The pride and accomplishment of getting \\"something\\" done. A sense of accomplishment puts a smile on your face. She has these great exercises for getting rid of unneeded items and throwing out garbage and making it a fun exercise!!You find yourself wanting to get your stuff organized,clean and getting through and doing it!! this book is worth it!	2005-04-28
US	36751810	R3SURQB35H0ER5	0609610104	939784321	Positive Energy: 10 Extraordinary Prescriptions for Transforming Fatigue, Stress, and Fear into Vibrance, Strength & Love	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A must read	I have to admit I was a bit sceptical when I ordered this book. I thought it would be another one of those preachy self help books with the same ol' story.<br /><br />  I found Dr. Judith Orloff's book an exciting breath of fresh air. I could not put it down. As an energy psychiatrist she has a very intuitive perspective on people and life.<br /><br />  she talks about the energy vampires in our life and what can be taking our energy from us. She gives us great ways to restore it.<br /><br />  One part of the book that I loved was the guidance she gives on developing your own intuitive spirituality. Rather than coming from a Religious perspective she guides us to listen to our own inner voice.<br /><br />  After reading this book, I felt lighter more hopeful, creative. She helps us tap into that part of ourselves that in today's society we have often suppressed, our passions, spirituality, sensuality, need for gentle quiet time, Our need to find what inspires and moves us. She shows us that we need to not just exist in this world, but live. live every moment of life. I feel a whole new energy awakened in me, and I hope you will too.	2005-04-24
US	36751810	R88SSR2ETDRLN	060980166X	441535107	The Magic Lamp: Goal Setting for People Who Hate Setting Goals	Books	5	27	28	N	N	This book is a jewel	I say this because this is the best book I have ever read on setting goals. Most books that are written on the subject of procrastination and goal setting are usually written in a very dry formulary way of how to set out tasks and a list of things to do, and when you don't fullfill them you think once again I have failed, I will never achieve my goals.  <br />  This book is different. This book was written by a man that didn't know how to fullfill his goals. He spent years avoiding them,not even thinking about them, but he taught himself ways that he could achieve them. Some people don't even know what there goals are, but he gives you techniques on how to find them. He shows you really effective ways to find more time. He points out the importance of not trying to work on too many goals at once. And the most beneficial thing I got out of the book was the wake up call that goals take TIME. Sometimes a long time. I have always been a procrastinator, and I realized it was because if I couldn't see a difference with little steps I took , I gave up. He makes you see that it is the long term picture when you see results. It may take months, years a lifetime, but the baby steps count. I see that now! I loved this book and I hope you will too!	2005-04-16
US	36751810	R3KSXY7DU9BND4	1591790603	740137465	Personal Healing	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Wow!! That is about summing it up!	Caroline Myss is an incredible revolutionary Mystic, with intellegence, practicality and a sense of humor. I bought this CD because I was suffering from Depression. It really is a Mind blowing CD. She really taps into a deeper, more meaninful part of ourselves. She answers some very interesting questions with incredible wisdom and insight. Why do some people heal, and not others? Is healing possible? Are some people \\"Hooked\\" on staying stuck in their disease? Why do some live and some die from their ailments? Why do people get sick in the first place?  <br /> No, Caroline Myss is not the authority on Disease, but her brilliance, insight and wisdom really helps you to see how you have an active part in your life circumstances and illnesses. It helps to give you a sense of power back. Two other pluses are that she is funny, and the Prince of Whales speaks at the end of this CD. I would recommend it to anyone feeling ill, or stuck in their lives.	2005-04-05
US	36751810	R1TQXG2OGAFZRF	1572243422	803305541	Loving Someone with Bipolar Disorder: Understanding and Helping Your Partner	Books	5	154	163	N	N	Help in Understanding this terrible condition	I first off want to say that I am dissapointed in some of the reviews I have read regarding this book. The Woman who wrote this book never claimed to be the \\"Be all, Give all\\" answer to Bipolar disorder. Bipolar is a broad spectrum illness and while one may suffer from severe manic episodes, another may be depressed all the time. One may spend money wildly, another may have slight irritation. I am speaking from personal experience, as I, my mother and sister all have Bipolar disorder and none of our symptoms are the same. I read a review where one woman was upset about her husband taking away her credit cards because people with bipolar can have spending problems. That doesn't mean everyone with bipolar has spending problems!! If her husband took away her credit cards that sounds like a personal issue in their marriage, and if it is due to one book that he read and not due to characteristics of his wife, then that still sounds like a problem!! <br />  What I enjoyed about this book is that it gave me a greater sense of understanding of my mother's erratic behavior, and illness. I have bipolar also, but very mildly so. My mother is extremely manic, and my family and I have spent years being mad about her erratic behavior, spending sprees etc. This book helps to bring you back to a loving place with someone that has this illness. It helps you see that much of the time it is the disease talking and not the person. I am learning to forgive my Mother and recognize her behaviors much better now due to this book. I am coming to a place where I see I can't save her,I can accept who she is, and be more loving about it. If you really care about someone with Bipolar and want to learn how to love them more, I suggest reading this book.	2005-04-05
US	36751810	R1KSFUGAIS39RC	1862042225	370939326	Mother Teresa	Books	5	6	7	N	N	If you want to become a better person read this book	I am not a brilliant reviewer, and probably don't have anything scholarly or outstanding to say about this book. I don't know if saying that I know it has and will change my life is the truth and I hope that is enough to make you want to read this book.  <br />  I was home sick with the flu. Getting out of bed was a task seeminly unaccomplishable. I had this book in my pile to be donated to the library. I was struck to read it, although it had been too long in the donation pile I had never been struck to read it before.  <br /> \\"The superior man is modest in his speech, but exceeds in his actions\\". Confucious (551-479). This quote, no, is not in the book but makes me think of Mother Teresa. This book, Written by a dear friend of hers in such an easily readable style, we are not bombarded by profound literary thought, or brilliant quotes, but the true to life story of a living saint. I had always known Mother Teresa was a wonderful person, but I did not know what a miracle worker this woman was! This Godly woman set foot with three saris a few pennies into the slums of India, hoping to give love and hope where none existed. With no money, little education and having left the security of the confines of the Convent where she did her missionary work for years in India as teacher and Principle of a school for both Young Nuns and the poor children of India. I believe the year was 1942 that Mother Teresa had a vision that she was to go amongst the poor and serve them in the streets where it is needed most. With much meditation and consultation with her spiritual advisor father van exem it took much time for her dream to come to realization. She wanted to remain faithful to her catholic faith and not be seen as a \\"secular\\" that had abandoned her role as Mother. Years later with nothing more than three Saris and pennies she was on her way into the streets. She was offered money by the Catholic Church, but refused all, saying that God would be her provider. And God was.  <br /> This is a European woman that stepped out into the poorest of the poor streets of India with no money, no home and no guarantees. She has been ridiculed, starved had stones thrown at her been threatened and persecuted. Rejected and lacking in support from the Catholic Church. This is a woman who started her first school in India with a twig that she drew out the Bengali alphabet in under a tree. She didn't  believe in saving, as she always believed that God would provide. She never asked for donations, but sometimes would resort to begging as the poor did. Never for herself always for others. The amazement of this woman was that she did it all on faith. today there are homes created by mother Theresa in over 130 countries including the U.S. Her Missionary Services called Missionaries of Charity continues to grow even after her death. There are Sisters and Brothers that serve and have all taken the poverty vow.They live exactly like the poor. No possesions, sometimes starving and always depending on God. I cried the whole time I read the book, because it became so evident to me how one humble little heart could change the world. She always refered to herself as a mere instrument of God and all the work was done by God. This amazing woman has services that take care of almost every need. no one is left out. From the dying, the homeless, leprosy victims, to drug and alcohol rehab services. Everything created without a bank account. This amazing book changed me. I hope it will change all. <br />	2005-01-28
US	36751810	RCT00T0AOFV69	1576832899	163199009	The Message: The Bible in Contemporary Language	Books	5	39	44	N	N	I have come to understand Jesus	First off, I want to apologize about my naivety regarding the bible. I have read some of the reviews, and many of the people that have written reviews have much to compare to in their understanding of the bible, and the translation.  <br />  I can only speak from my heart on this. I was never exposed to Christianity or the bible. My Grandmother was a Christian Scientist and she gave my mother her bible as a gift before she passed away. My mother then passed it down to me. I attempted to read it, and found it intimidating, scary, and \\"weird\\". I never understood this love people had for Jesus. It never made sense, and I found it frightening.  <br />  I decided I wanted to understand this whole Christian thing and was recommended to the Message. When I started reading, the format that it was written was so incredibly understandable and amazing that I haven't been able to put it down since. I actually started to quote things from the Message and began to see a new way of life. I found faith in Jesus' life. Maybe I am not scholarly in biblical history, or format or teachings, but I know this book has altered the way I think about God, Jesus, and life in general. This sounds incredible coming from a person that never believed in that stuff. I can find all ways to live a \\"right\\" life with meaning in the Message, and I can understand what I am reading. Maybe this book isn't for everyone, but if it can save a few hearts that never knew, it is worth every earned 5 stars. God has blessed the message.	2005-01-02
US	36751810	RSAMSXMGZYM54	0684870754	341564055	Life Lessons: Two Experts on Death and Dying Teach Us About the Mysteries of Life and Living	Books	5	74	75	N	N	Life lessons can be taught by the dying	I have had the priveledge and honor of working in hospice nursing for several years now. Sometimes it seems that there just aren't ways to put into words that valuable lessons that those that are so close to leaving this world have to teach us. I listened to the tape version, which I have to say was wonderful. <br />  I feel like Kessler and Ross put into words so much of what is experienced when faced with the ending of this chapter we call life. Death is not ugly, scary, horrible, if you are touched by it, you really can learn from it.  <br />  Ross and Kessler in their work with the dying remind us that this time we have here on this planet is not forever. What we say and do everyday to the one's we love, this lovely book reminds us that they may be the last words we say and hear from our dear ones. It is not meant to scare us. life is limited. No one, not one person is immune from death. I see it everyday. It is not scary, but it is a journey in itself and a teacher, to teach us that we want to look back and say I didn't fill my life with anger, I remembered to love because this day can be my last. I remembered to live, and I will tell you that is one of the greatest lessons I have learned from the \\"dying\\". Boy do they live. laughter surrounds, hugs are free, words are shared. I don't usually hear stories about how many hours a person worked, or how much money they made, or what clothes they had. They tell me about who they knew, who they loved and love, they show me albums, letters. They talk about their spiritual beliefs. They laugh, they cry. It may sound like I am getting off they subject of the book, but I am not. This IS what the book is about. LIVING now. Remember to Live.	2004-10-24
US	36751810	R3HS9L2E5B8R4Y	0743442288	222538754	Food As Medicine: How to Use Diet, Vitamins, Juices, and Herbs for a Healthier, Happier, and Longer Life	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Food is the original and Best Medicine	This book is an excellent informative book, on how to use food, diet and herbs to get well. Unfortunately in the United States we seem to be lacking in the food education department. With the simplistic, dated food guide pyramid that many of us base \\"healthy\\" eating choices on, we still don't know what to eat, to keep us feeling well, and healthy. For example a \\"grain is a grain\\" at the base of the pyramid, our starting point, gives us so little information to keep us healthy. Is eating a piece of chemical ladden, processed fluffy white bread the same as eating a piece of luscious, rich whole grain pure bread? According to our Food Guide pyramid it is. <br />  Dr. Khalsa helps us get back to the basics of nutrition. It was such an interesting book to read. He made it simple for someone like me who doesn't like veggies that much. He gives excellent statistics, and recipes. Later in the book he gives specific nutrient and food information, as well as suggestions for herb use in specific diagnosis related illnesses. He has chapters on gender specific nutrition, and some excellent Resource ideas in the back of the book. It is worth it!	2004-10-10
US	36751810	R3LJEAZRQCBBIU	0553283960	328482257	How to Get Out of Debt, Stay Out of Debt, and Live Prosperously: Based on the Proven Principles and Techniques of Debtors Anonymous	Books	5	42	43	N	N	We can Be Debt Free no matter what our financial situation	This book has been an amazing experience for me. I have read a lot of \\"how to\\" books on Finances and have never put the book down feeling like I had actually gotten somewhere.    With all the talk about investing, IRAs, 401ks and savings, or the other extreme of clipping coupons and reusing saran wrap I wondered was there anyone else out there like me?    This book actually was for me! There ARE others. I am a hard working person with a compiling debt situation, just trying to make it. As my bills have been piling up and I am working full time, I don't have time to go to extremes to save 5 pennies, and I don't have the extra funds to put into 401ks and special savings.    This book has completely opened my eyes to my financial situation and BIG changes have happened in just the several weeks since I got this book. I do see a way out. I have not incurred any new debt. I haven't paid off all my debt, but I see a light at the end of the tunnel. It will take time, and it is not easy, but it CAN be done!     This book is practical, motivating and gives useable solutions for everyday people. It is worth every penny and time spent reading it.  August 26, 2005 Follow up: Just to let you know I have not obtained anymore unsecured debt from the date of the review almost a year ago. A slow process, but getting out of debt!!!	2004-09-19
US	36751810	R1NBPG86FUOTCC	0960989870	410333799	Abstinence: Members of Overeaters Anonymous Share Their Experience, Strength, and Hope	Books	5	32	33	N	N	An excellent resource for overeaters	As I have been working with the program of Overeaters Anonymous I am absolutely amazed at the changes that have occured in my life. This book is another one of those wonderful books that has helped ease me along in the very difficult task of changing and overcoming my eating disorder.  <br />  This book is a compiliation of many different OA members across the United States struggles and triumphs with Abstinence (from overeating). Their stories help you realize that many others go through those struggles every day the way you do with food. Many have been abstinent for 25 or more years. Many are newly abstinent.The stories are interesting to read and helpful. An excellent book for member of OA, overeaters or binge eaters.	2004-08-27
US	36751810	R3CW1LM3XOGS75	0894869051	625346321	Twelve Steps For Overeaters: An Interpretation Of The Twelve Steps Of Overeaters Anonymous	Books	5	86	88	N	N	This book is life altering if you are ready to recover	I was shocked to see that there were actually negative reviews on this book.  <br />  One of the reviews I read sounds like it was written for another book as the content in the review was not related to any of the people or subjects contained in this book.  <br />... On to what I have to say about this book. This is positively one of the greatest books I have read for overeaters. This is not a diet book, but a healing tool, and a spiritual tool using the twelve steps.  <br />  In many ways compulsive overeaters or binge eaters are like alcoholics. It is a compulsive disorder that has so little to do with food. We eat to \\"stuff\\" our pain, hurt, anger, fears, regrets, sorrows and disappointments.  <br />  Using the tools in this book and going to Overeaters Anonymous I have been binge free for two months. I haven't had any sugar during that time. At one time these both really did seem impossible. But thanks to this wonderful book and the help of OA I am healing. If you have problems with binge eating or compulsive overeating I think this book is well worth the money and more.	2004-08-23
US	36751810	R1M4YFH0GNRD3L	0971577838	464783368	Selling Used Books Online: The Complete Guide to Bookselling at Amazon's Marketplace and Other Online Sites	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Resource Book that will STAY with me!	This book is not only a wealth of information, but is also enjoyable to read. Whether a seasoned online bookseller or Novice, or an individual curious about online bookselling this book provides a host of information beneficial to anyone who takes interest in the subject.  <br />  One of the best features of the book that makes it so enjoyable to read is Stephen Windwalkers balanced and informative approach to \\"teaching\\" the subject. Many \\"How to\\" books come across with a patronizing tone, as if all that read need everything spelled out to them. Windwalker conveys his opinions without ever making the assumption that we don't know what he is talking about. He never comes across as authoratative or preachy, and often refers to us (the reader) as colleagues. Last, but not least is Windwalker's respect and recognition of the importance of all the surround the circle of the bookselling market. He has great respect not only for the pleasant customer and transaction, but also recognizes the necessity of the large corporation, the authors, the lowballing bookseller and the less than pleasant customer. He sees them all as important! <br />  On to the wonderful content of the book. He gives an excellent historical account on the beginnings of both brick and mortor used bookselling to the birth of Amazon.com. He has great selling suggestions, listing suggestions, and a wonderful chapter on great ways to find affordable books to sell. He has so many helpful ideas, that not only is it an interesting read, but great reference material that will stay in my collection. Plus you will be surprised by the many fantastic websites he lists in his book, that I didn't even know existed. This book is well worth your time and money to check out!	2004-08-10
US	36751810	R3SALI1B1VEVE9	0312321236	481015682	Intuitive Eating: A Revolutionary Program That Works	Books	5	58	66	N	N	A wonderful book to help you get in tune with your eating	It is amazing how in the United States we have such an unhealthy relationship with the pleasures of eating. Either we are overstuffing ourselves with unreasonable restaraunt portions, or we are on a strict diet with a long list of &quot;good&quot; and &quot;bad&quot; foods. This wonderful book guides us into returning to our own natural instinct to eat when we are hungry and stop when we feel comfortably full or satiated. It is not about a diet &quot;plan&quot;, there are no good foods, or bad .It is about getting in touch with what our bodies are telling us to eat and when. It is about regaining the pleasure and enjoyment of eating without guilt and punishment. It is about letting go of the diet mentality that has overtaken this country. This book has helped me realize the guilt and overindulgence I have experienced from the world of dieting. It is helping me to respect my body and do what's right for me.	2004-07-11
US	36751810	R2GQIYO2LFJKCS	0786866292	916436064	Depression Is a Choice: Winning the Battle Without Drugs	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This book is life saving!	I have suffered from depression my entire life. Although I found prozac to be very helpful, it eventually stopped working for me along with other antidepressant medication. If medication is the &quot;fix it&quot; for depression, and the medication does not work for you, or you are unable to take it, it is frightening to feel that you are a victim to depression. <BR>  With this incredible life saving book A.B. Curtis reminds us that we do have the power to make changes in our lives. Her exercises that she recommends work! Overcoming depression is not easy. We will never completely be cured, but with this book we learn that we can take responsibility for our lives, and win the battle with depression. I highly recommend this book.	2003-09-07
US	36751810	R1ANVPPNQ9MA5T	097091380X	543966950	The Fat Fallacy : Applying the French Diet to the American Lifestyle	Books	5	48	50	N	N	This book is incredible!	As a continuous Amazon customer, after reading this wonderful book, this is the first time I have felt absolutely compelled to write a review. If 10 stars were possible, this book deserves it. <BR>   Will Clower's book really wakes you up to the way most typical Americans eat, and view meals. I have been on and off weight watchers for years, struggling incessantly, and this book really woke me up. I have spent years of my life, eating fat free food products that are loaded with chemicals, some of them sounding inedible after reading Clower's book. These chemical ladden foods, which were supposed to assist in my weight loss, caused me to eat tremendous amounts of food, and constantly crave sugar. Nothing was ever sweet enough. I also ate this \\"food\\" with a constant feeling of guilt, thinking everything would make me fat, and then when I would blow it I would go on a binge. <BR>   I have been eating with the suggestions of the book for 5 days now. I can't tell you that I have ever loved food more. My cravings for sweets have disappeared. This has never happened to me, and I just can't bring myself to eat the chemical ladden food I once did. Clower really woke me up! Thank you!	2003-01-09
