US	36780571	R1G95D3TOP26Q	1892062542	44285776	Reality of the Serpent Race and the Subterranean Origin of UFOs	Books	1	8	27	N	N	more psuedo conspiracy junk	Lmao!  Ya'll ppl got too much time on yur hands to write lies!  I mean, the critism to this book is poor babble at best.  For the record, Ive flown through space with mickey mouse and we both eat quasars like they are ice cream and what we can't eat we put in the trunk of the jet mobile. lmao! get real ppl, sure, we are not alone in the universe, but have u ever stopped to wonder how these would be enemies of the government can get so close to their suppose to be hidden secrets?  Indeed this is just more garbage to sell to ppl for profit, this type of propoganda is the true tabloid cream of the crop.  Lmao!	2004-05-27
US	36780571	R2J0HX4B8C9IWZ	0962088110	966325863	From Babylon to Timbuktu: A History of the Ancient Black Races Including the Black Hebrews	Books	5	19	39	N	N	Truth may hurt but it will set you free of set lmao!	It has been brought to my attention that African ppl of today or more brainwashed than the African americans.  Indeed I have came across a few here and their from different countries of Africa, they dont know the true history behind european colonizing, they were given the little white lie version, (see awotunde's comment, wether he is, or isn't from Africa makes no difference, she or he is still lost).  In view of this book, I will say for the record, before the so-called races were (made), the Black ppl were all over the land mass of earth before the shifting of the poles.  See the proof of the African Twa's(Black(negro)Africans) who are found everywhere the Euro-Asians(GRAFTED ALBINO'S) invaded, including the America's, inwhich white scientist admit that all ppl of planet Earth come from these civilize Black negro African ppl, inwhich in the earliest of findings there are no boats found for such a travel to be made, if, by todays World.  Indeed, as Mr.Windsor points out the Ancient Africans did dis-like the Euro-Asians, for the simple fact that they were made unnaturally through grafting Black recessive Albino's with each other, when two Albino's mate they will make another recessive Albino along with normal blacks, how many come out recessive in each mating is not as important as the reason for the ordeal, inwhich the normal Black children were killed or made servants to the Albino's.  This took place in the europe area with a group of African cultist from one of Nubia's Egyptian communities, this group claimed that they were doing the will of Ra, and that it was time for the new types of ppl to come into being.  This unnatural process was seen as evil to the Africans that knew of this, as they saw this as the work of (sET) which Africans of that day knew that it was a bad omen, and sought to destroy this plan before it would create separation and war between the (hue)mans, but the orders were given not to intervene by the African rulers of the time who knew ofthis.  That being the Egyptian Pharoah(Nubian king), and other Chieftans of that time who knew of each other.  The Nation of Islam states that this cultist had a leader who was born in one of Egypts communities, he became intersted in the human physiology, and was a very accomplished scientist by the name of Yakub.  There are other accounts by different ppl such as Rashidi who speaks of negro(Black African) Albino's being grafted, as well as the artifacts and written accounts of those of that time who kept accounts of these things, which, are now  in the possession of the honest.  Going back to the ignorance of awotunde who states that Black Africans are exclusivley from or found in West Africa is a belly of laughs, when, most are still indigenous to the upper South Eastern area of Africa(Uganda, Swahili areas, South Africa, Sudanic areas(Nubians), and Somolia area) inwhich certain large groups migrated to North, Central, and West Africa for different reasons, but all were still the same culture despite new ethnic ideas.  So, moving back to the subject of the Hebrews, again, these ppl were a Black African group(from a Sudanic group) who went to that particular area, way before the invention of the euro-asain-indo-arayan ppl were made.  I guess what I am writing is more of my point in short, in support to Mr.Windsor's work, Timbuktu became a learning center for islamic followers who brought their influence to this empire inwhich these ppl who integrated with the natives were Black Moors as this can be seen throughout countless accounts of Timbuktu's inhabitants by Caucasion(white) and Negro(Black) scholars.  Indeed all Black African negros are the same regardless of ethnic background, for we are the only ones who are not a race, as we were created naturally, now, if anyone disagrees, then prove how winter created humans and whatever else, and please no more of the vitamin D nonsense which has nothing to do with the primary development of black skin or melanin in general, whats next? a rock is melaninatd becos someone pulled milk on it! Lmao!  Indeed, all babies do not come out high yellow, inwhich vitamin D from mommies nipples makes them black Lmao! see the natural chemicals of the originals bodies, which process melanin and melancytes a secretion found throughout the human body.  To see a dark baby born, see the Dogons, and others of the true black African color inwhich on average most Africans or brown to dark brown to black.  On closing, lol, white reflects sun-rays therefore cannot absorb any electrolytes nor is it a good source of nutrient energy conversion where as black absorbs naturally as it absorbs sun- rays, hince the title of black ppl as being the children of the sun, not of a winter solice, inwhich things die, not grow.  The best Albino's can accomplish is, have a black spray painted scorched skin, see certain Arabs or India ppl, and even with the caucasions who claim to love their skin, when they get a tan the best they can accomplish is orange cancerous skin, let me add that Albinoism is not the only resulted cause of how all europeans look, indeed, after the making of these ppl the climate gave, along with chemicals found in those areas a finishing touch to the euro-asian(climate and chemical alteration or mutation) skin texture.  The large groups found of different human ethnics groups is do to what was taught about creating a big family lineage and taking over other families by having a bigger and stronger clan to conquer others via the teaching of patriarchy (male dominance) this is what gives asians their dinstinction from other Albino groups like the Indians or the caucasions and so on, this concept was not geared the same amongst the African ppl starting out, but, became a factor later, see the difference between the Asanti's and the Mossai's or the Sans and other Twa's.  Scream! Im a racist becos I give it to you straight with no chaser, we are all humans despite how we came about.  Peace! beautiful ppl, this is GOD's legacy not yours, humans are but a micro-stain in this vast UNIVERSE called the conscious cosmos.  Pun intended!	2004-05-23
US	36780571	R1F82G5OA2METT	052147941X	879207734	Afrotopia: The Roots of African American Popular History (Cambridge Studies in American Literature and Culture)	Books	1	3	16	N	N	A very bad attempt to read minds	Not all African slaves came from West Africa, to the impaired minds.  Africans were orignally from south and East Africa which is were Africans originated, and later migrated to West, North, North west, and North east(in no particular order) Africa.  Indeed the comments from viewers and the author's need to study geography as it pertains to African ppl as a whole.  Just becos most Africans were taking from West Africa doesnt take away from the other parts of Africa inwhich African negro slaves also were taking to different countries, which does not take away from the evidence of what they created and left behind, before any calamities.  So, if there is this outcry from so-called black Afro-centric ppl, it is only becos ppl like this Author will go out of their way to write a lame book like this, being a kiss ass who gives this watered down interpretation of the insulting word called Afrocentricity.  Indeed this Author should write a book about how the Indians are overreacting about Native American Indianism being that their majority of ppl where killed by English invaders, what! are they exaggerating as well?    To mark African descendants as being Afrocentric in a negative way, is nothing more than a weak attempt by Euro scholars and their brown nosing Euro-students and Non-Euro-students to discredit African scholars who have been bringing evidence to the table and not emotional baggage.  Indeed ppl, pay attention to geographical migration and overall African homogeny, before you accuse ppl who know their own kin as being a racially profiled Afrocentric.  Ppl who agree with unproven ideas are worser than the ones pointing the finger. GET A LIFE!	2004-05-05
US	36780571	R3J2QPIDJLRFQV	0226631877	420222478	Ancient Mesopotamia: Portrait of a Dead Civilization	Books	1	8	181	N	N	more racism whats next, white ppl come from a differ planet	This is just another sad attempt to put Euro-asia ahead of Africa.  The reason why there are not a lot of artifacts which would show that mesopotamia is older than Eypt is the same reason why a few racist moronic (pretend) scholars would go out of their way to make up false claims.  For the record, migration started from Africa to Euro-Asia and before then, Africa had already produced its pyramids in its mother country of Nubia, or Sudanic territory (black negroids), and its agriculture through out the continent.  Come on ppl lets get beyond ones short comings, besides, there is more validation for hinduism coming from the iranian aryans.  Who in turn receive their influences from the contact of African so called animist, which in fact is the belief that everything is the supreme source in a loop sequence of vibrating which is believe to be the only way the sun gods, rock gods, animal gods, human gods(neteru), etc., can exist.  It was the greeks,iranian aryans who took this knowledge out of context, as they were the ones who were truly polytheistic in their beginning, as they treated there different gods as seperate beings who existed independant of one another.  Hindu, and greek mythology went through a change once the invading Europeans were reeducated by the Egyptians, and Dravidians influences which in the beginning they were accused of being inferior civilizations with lame gods, but more likely it was just the ignorant outside view, as proved.  Mesopotamians were a combination of African negroids (Sudanic-Nubians), Mediterranean Indo-Euro's, and pre-nomadic Arabs(the offspring of different ethnic groups).  The teachings were concentrated around the African stories of civilization from beings of a different world which can be dated earlier in African stories throughout South Africa spreading up to the later north, east, and central migrations.  The Ancient Africans claim to have gotten their knowledge about space-time, geometrics of objects, and consciousness being absolute, from these beings, inwhich the universe was said to exist psycho-physically, from a supreme being that was absolute conscious reality.  Not all Africans societies receive the exact same knowledge so this is why it varies, other reasons were do to fueds domestically and abroad.  There is no evidence that Mesopotamians invaded South Africa and brought there knowledge and stories with them of e.t visitors, but the migration from Africa to Euro-Asia supports the latter.  The sad truth is the more that white racist try to seperate themselves from their source they will only reveal it more.	2004-04-26
US	36780571	R3EOKTDFSRJ29H	0910309205	932186634	Christianity Before Christ	Books	5	37	66	N	N	Just the facts jack!	Apparentlly Louis didnt understand this book.  Christianity is the result of greeks and Romans making there own belief system by modifying the Black Egyptian concepts, indeed the Greeks and Romans were pagan being that they distorted a system that was already complete to its followers.  So, it is anyones opinion of who is a pagan or not, christianity has no more validation of being the truth than ppl who worship a frog as a god.  Indeed, Louis, there was a established uncorrupted religion before the christendom, it is exactly what this author speaks of, duh! so since the whole christian doctrine, (concepts and events) comes from Egytian doctrine and history you figure out who is the teacher and the student. (pun intended)  Just as Mr. Jackson showed and proved, there were civilized ppl before a so called jesus christ, and just as Anubis said, Egyptians taught that existence came from a Monotheistic source but you could not know this source by any other means but its neter(made visible Truth), meaning its actions of manifesting, which is why all human beings are gods because they are the manifested neter or neteru along with all other visible things that are experienced relatively.  It would help most who critique ones work if they leave their bias opinion and emotions to the side to view a different point of view which is equipted with more facts than faith or fear of a sovereign god. For the record what is called god is not a thing  but subjective consciousness only what is created can be a thing because a thing is what is objectified (created), for, no one can see consciousness, you know you are because of awareness of beiing, which is consciousness, therefore, should not be viewed as something that is known to a seperate entity indeed this way of viewing existence is self defeating and laughable at best.  The whole view of consciousness in the brain is no different than a human in a space suit to experience a different reality without air, and yet humans know that they exist prior and beyond the space suit and so the same is known for the conscious and brain connection, indeed, consciousness and conscious experience are not the same reality, one created and controls the development of the other, this is why Egyptians taught that everyone is god.   What are you made of?, dirt, blood, water, neuron pulses, blah blah blah, these ingredient are created things which come from god so therefore are all space particles are god just as humans are.  Without intentionality there can be no experiences, all worlds and beliefs comes from consciousness( all encompassing GOD), which cannot come from anything, in order for things to be created there has to already exist an intelligent source but I wouldnt call this the christian god since that concept for most is distorted and incomplete and defames the Egyptian concepts and perception of Maat which taught that all things come from the same source including human beings.  When humans speak of a god they are speaking about a subject which is the (thing) but not the actual experience of (what is) through perception rather than ignorant concecption.	2004-04-02
US	36780571	R1UCRS78TKH4HV	0962088110	966325863	From Babylon to Timbuktu: A History of the Ancient Black Races Including the Black Hebrews	Books	5	9	21	N	N	THis book may have a  few eras, but more facts to support!	There are a lot of Black books which supports the migration and new concepts of So called Negroid type Africans throughout their migration of their homeland continent.  This book is just one of many, the hebrews (are whatever they called themselves) were black when they were invaded by the arabic aryans and the migration of the so called jews who had incorporated themselves among these so called hebrews to escape famine and wars against them from other white arabs or hittite aryan descendants.  These jews entered the hebrew land from mount sinai, as they also went to Black Egypt also.  As in all cases Europeans have the bad habit of learning from different African Black communities, then taking their knowledge and claiming that whites are the originators and that the Black Hebrews have no relation to other Black African communities such as the original Black Egyptians and others like the West African Asanti's, when, these so called Black Hebrews were the migrating children from the South and East Africa, to the North, central and west African areas, just as the Egyptians were Sudanic Nubians from the East and South and the Asanti's came from that same Black group who broke up and went into different directions over land fueds and new beliefs.  This migration was cause by war from outsiders and their influences of greed and tyranny supported by a sovereign god, also, community fueds amongst the different South and East  African community families.  These fueds were over kingship,land, famine, war tactics against european invaders, (especially white arabs), etc.  This is why there are Black African communities all over Africa, its called migrating for the impaired racist mind, and no matter how unalike all Black Africans may appear no white retard called a scholar can truly seperate the common relatedness among all Black Africans, it does not matter about influences and new ideas over the centuries, all Black ppl are related and Mr. Windsor book is just another reminder of this.  In my opinion it is good to know everything about our Black ppl because we are the originators of civilization, and this book is just more evidence that we do have a history as we continue to add to it in the present day era.  As one reader pointed out certain African americans are brain-washed by the white hype, so if this book is not the words of the white scholar then it must be some counterracist attempt of some emotioal black author trying to restore a place in time for himself and his black ppl. tsk tsk, Black ppl who support nonsense even in the face all evidence, are apparently ppl who want the white world and what it means as a stature (the influence of white dominate world view).   To me, black ppl like this are historically ignorant of their ancestors involvement and influences in the future civilizations and are spiritually dead, so they support things that give them a sense of belonging through the white insecure racist eyes called the material world, and they associate this ignorance with the will of their god, meaning, if they are successful then it is caused by a god, but I seriously doubt if the real GOD would support success through slavery and taking from other ppl and destroying their identities and history.  Indeed, for those who do not see the truth in this book, plymouth rock has crushed not only your body but your eyes as well.  Wake up BLACK PPL because our history did not begin with slavery.  The whole concept of Willie lynch, to turn blacks against blacks has definitely exceeded physical slavery, wether Ol' Willie was a true person or not, black on black violence in greal Ol' America was definitely a method of the slave owners.  So this is just another case of the house slave loving the slave owner and hating his brother and sister in the field for wanting their freedom and identity back. pun intended!	2004-04-01
US	36780571	R3W1FL45GW3NVL	0962088110	966325863	From Babylon to Timbuktu: A History of the Ancient Black Races Including the Black Hebrews	Books	5	8	18	N	N	In yo mommas back yard!  =)	For the misguided fool, blacks were not just found in west Africa but all over Africa, there were black hebrews, just as there still is, as there are black americans, what the average nay sayer misses is that no matter how a black person is titled do to invasion or conforming under ones own will, BLACK IS BLACK! no matter what religion, belief group or nationality you may find them in, as far as west african we were in the east part before we moved to the west part of Africa.  Blacks were forced into a title that was not African oriented through out history but this does not change their physical identity, only sex between two distinctively different persons can do that, and not by much as the dominate make up will still be noticable.  So the misguided individual missed the whole point of what this book shows and proves. pun intended.	2003-11-14
US	36780571	R3S6SSS0YMM20T	1886433976	985026086	The Science And The Myth Of Melanin	Books	5	12	13	N	N	10  For actually being scientific and less  assumptive	I own this book and the author does not do what the reader wayne says.  In fact Mr. Moore explains in great depth about the differences in the different functions of melinin and melanoycte found through out the human bodies of ppl of different colors, and as well with other volitional and nonvolitional things.  In no way does this author suggest that Black ppl are superior over White ppl and vice verse.  If anything he clears up the misconceptions of the supposable experts as well as the laymens.  I would give Mr. Moore's work ten stars if i could because he did not choose sides but only shared his observational emperical research.  Which is quite accurate with most scientist in this field who do not share the same color.	2003-11-14
US	36780571	R2TRLYJS0B4U12	0684825244	715397462	The End of Racism: Principles for a Multiracial Society	Books	1	16	68	N	N	the usual stereotyping , more covered up insensibility lol!	Here is another book ignoring the facts!  For one, the word race is a demeaning word since we all share the same common ancestors.  So, when viewing this authors blind folded view of the black culture, it is obvious that he doesnt know much about the black culture outside of white supremist tampering, the truth still remains, that a white man would be hired before a black man even when the black man has a better resume' it is subjects like this that keeps the average black american from true achievement, but let's throw out affirmative action and give black americans the true citizenship they have earned! see the 13th and 14th amendment, what a joke! just as this book is as well!  Surely Dinesh is not so dumb founded to place a small percentage of successful blacks as the representation of all black americans and vice verse, stereotyping at its best.  The fact remains that the bulk is not so available for black americans as it is for whites, look at the number of black businesses that dont last very long, it seems rather odd that when a black man and a white man go into the same business with the same start up money the white man succeeds where the black man fails, and this has nothing to do with experience and location at all, but everything to with the over pricing that black businesses face from white manufacturing companies as oppose to the fair treatment the white business owner is so accustom to, wether you like it or not this speaks in high volume especially when i have several friends in different states who have faced this pitfall, just look at this book for instance, this is just more proof of how white ppl view blacks, and for ppl to compare cultures in a competition way is very childish to say the least.  Let's not forget how america has become the supposable great country that it is! lmao! if you want to call barberism the rule and not the exception, do to greed, insecurity, lack of respect, and ignorance towards other ppl way of life, then, by all means celebrate this pro negative and ignorant view for white america, not BLACK america!  So on closing, if you paint a negative picture of ppl based on your personal complexes then it is quite easy to see why books such as this, are written, and the true cause of blacks demise is totally ignored and covered up by some pseudo fair equality stunt!  I guess next Dinesh is going to write that blacks came to america on their own, besides, there is only a few warring african communities who were giving their enemies to slave traders. Nuff Said!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	2003-09-19
US	36780571	R1PMROW6XW2PFJ	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	1	11	95	N	N	another bad creation -brought to u by dinesh ( Mr. America)	Adding to what Toria Bean and Ramesh says about this book, from what i read in summary, this is another joke of a book where Dinesh only considers to look at the green grass as it benefited his position in more than one way.  Now if you ask most ppl if america is so great you will definitely get different answers, not all will bow to the supposable fair country that promotes justice for all, besides, most of Europe abolished slavery way before the so called great america, also Europe is way more open than america about accepting different cultural expressions so i doubt if Dinesh has spent any time there to critique its open diversity.  America only accepts cultures based on profit primarily, if you dont believe me then look at all of the kung fu schools, yoga schools, rappers that makes corporate america richer, different discipline religions that are taught for the right price, different little foreign something towns engulfed by the big american city, etc., the majority are ran by a western american, and poor ol' bruce lee is still crying over playing that pathetic sidekick in the green hornet lmao!   Now if anything, america should be seen as being great for exploiting other ppls cultures and customs, this is the number one reason why our economy is doing so well, if corporate america would give all of the illegal immigrants citizenship and a above minimum wage then america would suffer a decline in profits, so tell me what is so great about monopolizing?, this is what a bully country will ratinalize as being fair and legit and will hide any wrong doing, indeed i will not purchase such nonsense as this book, which only seems to support the conservative onesided view of america with no regards to its darkside that makes it hard for the average american to overcome, just ask the indians who are still to this day overlooked and very few, maybe because a number of western americans are now trying to hide their guilt by claiming to be one of them (indian) hmmm lol!I see america as a lucky country, meaning, if america would have lost the wars that put it on top, ppl would have looked at some other country to exult.  So to sum it all up Dinesh is just one brown noser out of many who will do and say whatever it takes to keep a steady above average class income, Dinesh should have been an engineer or computer scientist because this book and other books by him is nothing more than metro-rightwing support, so Dinesh just say no to the skin flute lmao!  If you want to polish something then find the time to that to your mirror as it will reveal the plastic individual in front of it.  ching! ching!	2003-09-19
US	36780571	R34PT0TW993KOP	0933121199	3416755	The Story of the Moors in Spain	Books	5	24	44	N	N	the truth shall set u free!	More outcrys of afrocentricity, well, for one, the past precedes its inheritors, so to say that the moors were mostly arabs that had black slaves is laughable at best, especially when there is so much proof of who these ppl were despite any religion one might find themselves a part of through invasion and intergrouping.  Now if u trace the arabs ancestors and the berbers ancestors then u will  come to the conclusion that they were all originally negroid in features ( Black Africans!), most Africans still possess most of the features that are found in other so called races, just look at most of the dogons who have not mated with someone of a different race,indeed, blacks are the only ppl that are not a race for that matter and the features of ppl who are not black such as arabs, asians, indians, etc, is the result of albinoism and these ppl who rejoined and mated with the black Africans through war and alliances that have been goin on for centuries, but indeed blacks are the originals.  But even in the presence of proof the best a bunch of insecure bigots can do is make up lies about what the pictures and other artifacts were portraying, oh no! thats not a black man that is just someone who was painted black lmao! good one! grow up ppl biophysics speaks in high volume, black was first, as it will be last when u depart your body.   So arabs, berbers, asians, euroasians, and indians all have ancestors who were from Africa and were very negroid and black! so lets just say no to the antiblack hype!yawn!  Besides Mr. Poole doesnt need approval from a bunch of armchair scholors, (pun intended!) lmao!	2003-09-09
US	36780571	R6P6QG0MDA0TX	0874779502	31555214	The Hermetica: The Lost Wisdom of the Pharaohs	Books	4	5	18	N	N	More uninformed onesided favortism	If ppl are going to make comments like, Hermetica predates the concepts of osiris(ausar) and isis(auset) then it would help if u show proof!  The Egyptian concepts of god self and the material universe of alchemy are older than the Hermeticum which was just a copy of it by the western invaders athens(greeks)or a(hittite)group.  There is historical evidence to support this claim, go to Egypt talk with the sufi's or any well known unbias anthropologist, archeologist,geologist, etc and also look at the artifacts which have been carbon dated as preceding the hermetica by 500 or more yrs besides ppls misconception of Egyptians explanation of the neteru as the attributes of one enitity speaks volumes lmao! the Egyptians also taught that everything came from a singular source which could only be known by its attributes and not as the god lmao or the male dominate figure hmmm! very sexist and patriarch tsk tsk.  This book is like many other books that reveal the truth, always shot down.	2003-08-27
US	36780571	RSJC8EZGOJHHH	0807067938	330545771	The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory: Why an Invented Past Won't Give Women a Future	Books	1	20	97	N	N	another author who drops t he ball	Cynthia wrote a book attacking feminist fanaticism and fantacism, which does not uproot the facts about ancient civilizations matriarch system, it is obvious cynthia can only run the ball so far then drop it, indeed outside of feminstic jargon matriarch societies supported were men came from and that is from the woman and not the other way around.  This is just another book to take with a grain of salt, laughable at best, indeed cynthia has ingnored anthropology, cultural significance, biology, as well as historical facts that clearly shows that (civiliz)ations of the ancient days were matriarched based on the fact that women were first not men, men are the result of par thenogenesis mutation and cross genetic dna induction by a more advanced species of beings who sped up the evolution of the developing bi-pedal ppl on earth see:Ancient Kush and Egyptian system about human origin and all other ancient civilized systems that followed which clearly explains this development which is far from myth!	2003-08-11
US	36780571	R1PCDC2W991VRQ	1879831007	797619096	Iceman Inheritance : Prehistoric Sources of Western Man's Racism, Sexism and Aggression	Books	5	33	60	N	N	opinions are an open field of collisions.	I've notice only the white viewers are screaming bigotry now look at the kettle calling the pot a bigot lol, please ppl lets stop pretending that skin color was not and is still not a factor, so if white men or being accused of these astrocities then take note, especially were white scholars admit to this by glorifying how different European nationalities conquered different parts of the world especially Black Africa.  And no its not a matter of nature over nurture, you see everyone was not a club swinging baphoon lets not keep assuming like a ignoramous that a few findings of old bones of ppls lifestyles speaks for everyone else duh! but hey assuming with very little to go on is the European rationale system lmao!  There is a big difference between being civilized and protecting your country from further attacks and being the aggressor who attacks and takes as they please. tsk tsk still in denial, whats next are white ppl going to lie about how they got control over america what a shame so i guess the indians were not the better fighter right? lmao!, more nonsense.  Also claiming that everyones condition was primarily influenced by nature over nurture is a unproven claim especially when that had more to do with ones geographical condition which caused the types of different pschological devlepments as it pertains to enviromental survival, so to me this is just another sad cover up from guilt and the truth coming back to slap certain ppl in the face, now if any of the cry babies knew anything about African philosophy or culture then u would know it was nurture over nature indeed the nature of animalistic behavior was denied as shown throughout ancient Egypt and other African related areas to those teachings all the way up to the point of its decline from the western influences who were followers of set the animal or low self the material world lover, next time do the science and cry less.  HTP	2003-08-04
US	36780571	R1UABE216FC76D	0911662251	9988778	Kybalion: A Study of the Hermetic Philosophy of Ancient Egypt and Greece	Books	3	5	53	N	N	hermes was no demi-god	The past precedes its inheritors in all accounts, hermes a demi-god lmao! more like hermes the accompanying invader, these so called hermetic teachings were already established way before greeks are any other baberic clan ever set foot in the area, these teachings came from Egypt, Kush, and the southeast parts of Africa, as these teachigs were taught to Africans by other beings from a different planet who modified a particular type of progressing bi-pedal species on earth, these beings taught their modified creation alchemy, mathamatics, complex system language, or objective association, a better creation of agricultural tools, since they had premature ones that didnt do a good job, and the universal code of laws, this can still be seen in tact in the Sumerian writings but it was destroyed by the nomads who invaded the Egyptian temples much later in history they also destroyed the Kush temples as well that preceded the Sumerian empire, the sumerians were also a part of this invasion as they were known by a different name along with the other neighboring allies, these nomads took the spoils of those areas and emulated the history and the advance agriculture in their own societies.  The greek ppl like many others changed everything into their language for better understanding and credited their ppl as the originators but they were only sudents and liars. The chinese philosophy was also from Africa as the chinese ancestors and everyone in the Euro-Asia areas occupied Euro-Asia in different eras taking what they knew with them and and later returning for new knowledge as word got out about the great civilization of Egypt and Kush, but other undevelop ppl such as the Europe areas came much later with the invasion of what the ppl of Egypt called the Heksos, then a little later the greeks and Romans as they developed from contact with the Morroco Africans who were a combination of Nomads(Berbers) and Egyptian ppl.	2003-07-26
US	36780571	R3VL18XPII0YFF	0679745424	155326162	Playing in the Dark: Whiteness and the Literary Imagination	Books	5	3	33	N	N	Leave the reducing for the experts	If Morrison is playing in the dark, then indeed there are those who are angry in the light, so to give a negative reduction of what morrison was clearly stating about how blacks are viewed speaks in high volume, besides i dont know of many japanese who pinpointed out black ppl to enslave them............. even if they did have three eyes, two mouths, or whatever else. lol  Another prime example that denial always ends with a bad term......... More emotional baggage disguised as constructive critism..........yawn....................	2003-07-21
US	36780571	R2DYVJOUZGJ9OS	0761521631	375000596	Black Spark, White Fire: Did African Explorers Civilize Ancient Europe?	Books	4	8	27	N	N	stop crying and accept the facts!	ewwwwww the truth hurts huh rightwingers? News flash! where does semitics come from? hmmm they are a mixture of black and white and since everything has a begin point then indeed we should not delude ourselves about skin melanin conditions based on geographical where abouts still waiting on a white man to successfully become black from sun tanning Michael Jackson has already shown that a black man can become white due to a melanin defiancy, or did the charlatans forget that everything has melanin in it.  For the poor readers Poe never was saying that greeks were not white but what he did show was that how they were influence by the black ppl who were already a thriving civilazation.  And of course they mingled and not to mention all of anthro findings of how ppl came to be in those northern mountain areas to begin with.  Wether the metro and rightwinger intellects alike, like it or not black was first as nothing develops in the cold without a gradual adaptation so stop crying and accepts the facts!	2003-05-11
US	36780571	RRO90BOQ8KGFJ	0761521631	375000596	Black Spark, White Fire: Did African Explorers Civilize Ancient Europe?	Books	4	11	30	N	N	tsk tsk	To the reader from (lost) angelos, I dont see your real name so why point the finger at poe, also just like the rest, the truth hurts you i see.  For one, European history dictates that they were civilizing foreigners who never invaded their lands until the Europeans invaded theirs.  Hmmm u will have a tough time with convincing everyone that the condition of the africans is just some third world ignorous on their part, for one there is too much proof that shows other wise and that also shows that for the most part Europeans and the nomadic tribes were the cause of African societies as they are now.  Of course a charlatan like u would not do any real homework becos u are too busy being a armchair intellect.  Now the last time i checked, when ppl invade your land without reason they were considered barberic and uncivilized but yet u rightwingers celebrate this as if u were and are the exception, example, bush invasion of irac hmmmm very justifiable evidence, what evidence?!  Tsk Tsk i guess the french, bristish, germans, portugese, and a couple of other ignorant Euro tribes had a free pass to come to africa and change the black ppls speaking habits and cultural understandings and replace it with some mud soup belief.  And of course when u kill off most of the leading elders and adults the children will inherit ignorance becos of the state of their ppl and land due to invasion, but im sure a charlatan such as yourself at the very (least) knew that much right?  Wrong! u like other fools who have been brainwashed by your insecure superiors refuse to take the black history back far enough to were there was no slavery of no sort u can only go as far as when your kind came to africa inslaving ppl and changing the way the black cultures related to each other, of course if u pass on a disease it will eventually spread in all departments of human relation (mental behavior).  But since for most white ppl the world is black and white u will always overlook whats colored in black for whats colored in white which brings us back to your empty argument and unjustifiable attitude.  Indeed, race is not a black problem, this is a white problem since we were never the ones discriminating about differences, that disease way of thinking and behaving were forced on black ppl.  So in general, anything that is marked we the whites has to be taken with a grain of salt.  Especially when it comes from a person who would not let a black person into his home to shower and eat probably. lmao!  i am more than a name like i am more than a thing unlike most who still identify as such. lmao!  Also the evidence of Africans already having flying devices is a fact but the idea by 18th century jargon was to keep their ppl out of harms way of the truth about nonwhite ppl who have been there and done that in different but similar ways, besides there arent too many black ppl getting all these things done to their bodies that they are to supposably hate, cant say the same for all these overly pride stricken white ppl.  ...	2003-05-11
US	36780571	R3MOMUD7JYMSR	1560005815	689986375	Golden Age of the Moor (Journal of African Civilizations)	Books	5	15	25	N	N	Sertima relys on physical artifacts not here say.	To the usa reader who made the poor comment about the moroccans not identifying with sub sahara descent, yes this would be true of the berbers (the mulattos) who were a mixed breed of caucazoid nomadics and black africans (moors), who were the original indigineous ppl of north africa and through out the continent.  The berbers and other caucazoid mixed ppl do not identify with their so called negroid roots because they were trained to be bigots about what they stole and took from the original ppl of the land.  It is physically impossible for the caucazoids to have develop in north africa with the type of physical features and skin texture that is designed as it devlops in a cold icy region such as europe which is were these ppl came from as invaders ( the lost mutated black ppl).  It would help in the future that when one who disagrees with ones views of historical events, provide something other than emotional baggage, evidence would be nice which is what Mr. Sertima presented and so should not be overlooked or taken out of context because you cannot handle the truth.  For more evidence study the correlation between anthropology and physics and be forever humbled disturbed one, the oldest anthropological finding of human remains possessed 99.9 percent melanin in the recovered minute tissue remains and they also found tools which showed that these early humans were civilized beings, being that they had agricultural understanding.  Show me what caucazoid has 99.9 percent melanin pigmentation, such a person does not exist and so this can only be what is described about black ppl(african moors) of our so called negroid features inwhich white scientist did admit to this( see discover magazine or the site )................... So please no more out crys from charlatans who cannot give evidence for evidence, hmmmmm very dishonest and immature. Also stop using the lame excuse of afrocentricity being some restoration of black pride, no pride was ever lost, for the blacks hadno reason to iniate invasion upon others like the caucasions( the transformed blacks), so how is that for pride?!  On your part, foolish pride for overlooking and trying to find a way around the laws of physical science especially in the area of how melinin develops on the pigmentation level, tsk tsk to your foolish pride! The original humans went through three physiological changes as it pertains to nature/nurture  1. development duration 2. climatical influence 3. human nurture influence.  But anyway i give The Golden age of the Moors 5 stars for what it supports ( EVIDENCE ) not empty speculation which is what the cowardly usa reader cryed about with no detailed reference of his or her supposably more inclined authors.	2003-04-15
US	36780571	R3VPGZHJ2IYPX6	0375713719	129991609	Nigger: The Strange Career of a Troublesome Word	Books	1	8	82	N	N	just another author trying to save his book career	To the reader david, in the movie rush hour chris tucker did not say nigger! he said nigguh! which is a big difference in how the word is used to expressed friendship or kinship and not that degrading garbage that came from weak insecure little boys!  Now that demeaning word (nigger) like negro was a word to describe the skin tone of african ppl in the areas that they were found which was by the nile river and the niger river which meant that they were black or dark skinned ppl by those rivers.  Look at the word nigger and remove one of the g's and what u have is niger, a coincidence? i think not, especially when those ppl are still living by the nile and niger river which is rumored to be one and the same river but has been altered over the yrs do to drought and whatever else.  Now getting to the author of this book, it is a shame that some ppl will write useless books of controversy so that they can make some attempt to ressurect their dying careers in the book market not to mention knowing that it would create an uproar which would bring in the money. hmmmmmmmmmm!!!!!!!!!!!!!  I dont see the importance of this book, the word nigger is a hate word plain and simple, the word nigguh is a black american cultural word that was borned out of the ignorance of others.  nuff said!	2003-03-25
US	36780571	R2KYZMQW2ER1QL	0813512778	628757300	Black Athena: The Afroasiatic Roots of Classical Civilization (The Fabrication of Ancient Greece 1785-1985, Volume 1)	Books	4	7	26	N	N	Bernal speaks more truth than he does falsehood	To assume that blacks accept Bernal because he supports some recovery of black pride is utter nonsense especially when most of the proof for what he says still exist.  Im sure euro-charlatans can do more than just cry about afrocentricity but yet cannot remove it from no ones history, indeed the past will always precede its inheritors in all accounts!  Through out all nationalities europeans and semites of euro influence have been reported as being dogmatic barberics, justifying their ignorance on everyone that did not look like them nor believe like them as being a civilizing of others.  But what is civilize about destroying other ppls land and then covering it up as if they did not belong to the land? (egypt)  Indeed the pc world is just another exention of racist european stronghold on all information of truth.  The egyptians were black as they still are!  see the baladi ppl and be forever humbled you armchair sponges! lmao! right wingers are still insecure, lol! melanin is in everything and not the lack there of..................nuff said!	2003-03-14
US	36780571	R37M8Y3S6OPSXG	1556520727	332248505	The African Origin of Civilization: Myth or Reality	Books	5	8	16	N	N	DIOP GIVES FACTS NOT FALSIFICATIONS!	To correct those poor readers who try to win their arguments by stating that negroid is not a word lol well it is a word that was invented by a particular ppl to explain what they saw about another person(s) this has been done in all accounts were ppl shared different cultural backgrounds, but one stating were the so called negroid ppl where does not take away from what that implies, just as i can say the sun ppl and not be of a spanish background, come on now charlatans please tell me you can do better than this!  A comic book?!  nah u are more the comic of jokes lmao!  Diop gives accurant accounts, so denounce your ego and bow humbly =) laysa!	2003-03-14
US	36780571	R1PH1DEUQQ6FDW	0465056741	948062344	Philosophy in the Flesh: the Embodied Mind & its Challenge to Western Thought	Books	3	5	69	N	N	more subjects to make money	I give this book 3 stars for the long and extensive effort to once again make money off of senseless subjects, i mean this is pure genius maybe i need to jump on the bandwagon lmao!  For one a metaphor explains a subject object in a uncharacteristic approach, which has nothing to do with the literal account of the observer to the object who gives what he sees about a subject object a usable term which would commonly satisfy all viewers as most would be in agreement base on whatever terminology they have setup in their society.  Yes metaphors can be seen as being abstract when using words to explain the subject in a nonliteral sense.  As pointed out by other readers nothing new here, and me being a avid fan of cognitive science this book does nothing to improve on what i already understand about the mind and body relation.  This is my second critique becos amazon.com reps have been drinking too much coffee. lol  But a better book about the mind would be by arizona scientist David Chalmers (The Conscious Mind) this is a great book as he explains his views with a greater sense of clarity and how they can be arrived at by any individual, given time and patience these views will come to the forefront, after all, metaphors along with human nature is just an open program based on binary codes and multiplicity of how these codes interact as programed to create different events of causes and effects, another good book would be, The philosophy of action by mele, which may give one a differemt approach to this subject.................on closing all terms support the subject wether it is visible are not, of course the term to express something can be seen as being abstract but from another position it can be seen as just the opposite, being that it supports some objective source which brought it forth in the first place.  To me if something is abstract it existes without the need of  meaning, to add meaning would be disfiguring to such surreal beingness I think we as humans aretoo caught up in trying to fit everything under our umbrella of acceptance especially  in the academia circles......... human logic or what appears to be, based on our critique is just another example of form trying to be what it is not! lmao!	2003-03-11
US	36780571	R22UDLK3IAB60F	0195117891	220016192	The Conscious Mind: In Search of a Fundamental Theory (Philosophy of Mind)	Books	4	2	16	N	N	very good views!	I thought this book was a great challenge to the neuro-world of junkies who persistes that consciousness is a product of materialism.  David Chalmers has done a great job of bringing a different view to the table as he speaks of the phenomenal world vs. the proto phenomenal world.  The only thing that i wasnt so in agreement about was the zombie point of view, as i have already mention quite a few times consciousness cannot be reduced or deduced only illusionated as being reduced, to me it is a matter of the perception of a particular entity that is suffering from a incomplete reality of wakefulness, im sure some [body] will say that this is just a personal construct, and sure it would be for any limited person who cannot see pass the limitations of human logic which is grossly our opinions of how we (relate) to what nature reveals to us.  Just imagine how lost we would be without eyesight lmao! a lot worser than most are now.  As Chalmers pointed out a third personal point of view can only reveal so much and that is mostly face value information, i see an open program so please lets take away the shock value of presuming that what everyone conceives about their reality is purely just their opinion with out any outside influence. Form being form is limited to understanding what consciousness is, as oppose to what it isnt. If form can only identify with form then how can you truly understand the difference between objective form and subjective form inwhich their is a big difference.  Consciousness is not a product of the brain, the brain is a mechanism for the experience of this ideal world were the experience of being created is the main drive............. i am still waiting for a sound explanation for coming into being without there being any intentionality that backed such a force, also no such accident has ever been confirmed about consciousness being a miraculuous whatever from some freak collision of free particles.  Question to all serious philosophers, do youreally need light to create form or ideas, also what objective forms could be seen without contrast?  So to me consciousness is much more than what we can determine or put into a book as if we are beyond limitations, please! we are constantly interacting with our objective reality to improve on our limitations! lmao!  and ppls views of consciousness is no execption, so enjoy your limitations ppl is just one instant that is point to point. Consciousness is the true experiencer!	2003-03-11
US	36780571	R32JTN4JTRBYRQ	0465056741	948062344	Philosophy in the Flesh: the Embodied Mind & its Challenge to Western Thought	Books	2	2	58	N	N	more divided information  (sighs)	Once again leave it to the western thinkers to drop the ball! For one, the mind being a inherented embodiment clearly shows that it is a programed mechanism regardless of what one chooses to see and secondly confront with the eyes to human limited logic relation.  Please less question how we view what the brain really is! lmao! For starters lets see it as a common shell of our particular species that incases its own unique human snail.  The human snail would be the ego personality as it relates as being a (MIND) within a system of a boundless MIND!  Secondly thoughts being unconsciousness depends on your understanding of consciousness which is clearly limited in the views i have read as well as of this book.  Thirdly abstract concepts being metaphoric, yes and no, it all depends on intuitiveness regardless of any secondary relation towards explaining a subject or even creating one, so in the end we can treat abstract concepts as being a fundamental concrete construct in the sense of getting many usages out of the same concept as seen through out all societies as ppl can use the same form to define asscoiated value to (it) differently.  To sum up my point the ancient egyptians explained the whole mind and body relation way back in the day, too bad it was never understood in its entirety to outsiders.  So on closing regardless of the mind/body relation, which is evident, this still does not take away from the claims of it all being intentionally induced or the constructs of an outside causer as i will explain in great volumes in the near future.  For a better view of the limitations of human rationale read DAVID CHALMERS book entitled, The Conscious Mind (in search of a fundamental theory).  I highly recommend this book over this one being that, it pleases both point of views without throwing around inconclusive pseudo ideas about why ppl would reject this book! lmao! can u say selfconscious author? i know i can! lmao!  Besides i am still waiting on materialist to explain how the quality of psychology could ever emerge from something that is not psychological fundamentally lmao!  regardless of how u twist yourselves in a bind you cannot seperate consciousness, intelligence and intentionality from being facets of the same source, sorry the view of nonself identity robots is just another illusion that has a outside causer, wake up already. laysa!  and one more thing just because there are ppl who are accepted by their group of peers in their respected areas does not make their claims legit in the real world, the average so called laymen may not be as average or illiterate to the subject as one makes them out to be, presumbably anyway, lol they just as i just have a different way of explaining the subject, just because a group of men get together and create new terminology to explain the same thing, does not make them the exception over everyone else, besides theories or still incomplete pictures so try again...............  p.s what begins from nothing cannot be seen as metophoric so swallow that down with a cup of tea!  really, think about what was just written...............indeed i will see ppl like DAVID CHALMERS at the finish line, not too confident about the rest. laysa!	2003-03-07
US	36780571	R2N5J6Y89P77GT	0965250962	238866127	Exiled Egyptians: The Heart of Africa	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The truth is always concrete!	I have read this book and have compared it to my findings based on emperical evidence as well as others methods i possess! indeed the euro-charlatans can no longer lie in the face of ppl of true knowledge and identity inwhich they never lost!  There is big difference between cultural ancestry and origin ancestry inwhich the origin of cultures will always precede the ideas that stem from it, inwhich one should know now that the origin of all ascendants were black or dark skinned ppl, even charles darwin indirectly acknowledged this.  It does not matter where u put the ancients in a time and era, or how one may change the method of meanings and communication, indeed all cultural concepts and language have there begin points from a common and singular source!  Which was in africa!, it does not matter how diverse one may want to become from the next but understand that all communications must start off with a common way of communing.  This being said, academia should acknowledge the difference between slang variation and a distinctively different concept of communicating, indeed they ignore this to great detail, even in their own countries lol! example: ebonics! nuff said.  Now for anyone who understands evolution and anthropology then u would know that not all the black ppl of the ancient world were the same exact color or shared the exact features indeed though they were similar in design or even resembled their kin they all still possessed their own unique look that should not be taken out of context as being a foreign unknown identity, that came much later with the climax conditions and the eating habits and the types of bacterias in the food and waters not to mention birth defects, gene splicing, and selective breeding do to different belief systems and a way to establish a area belonging to a particular blood line being that they all share the same features of the mothers and father.  So i hope in the future our lost tribes of white bruhdas and sistas will come clean about the origin of the human line. lmao! These insecurities that are justified by some ego religious dogma is way too funny! laysa!.....................keep theorizing while the truth keepers bring forth evidence.  If anyone racist charlatan wants to challenge what i write then i can break it down to you in physics, anthro, phono, bio, chemistry, and sociology as it pertains to cultural change do to lost information of ones elders and cultural indifferences as not all shared the same concepts but they all did recognized the TRUE SELF!.....................the only darkness is ignorance towards ones true identity and the method of experience that was chosen....................fwame!	2003-03-07
US	36780571	R1RSTRM4AOOVHJ	046509838X	545172516	Not Out Of Africa: How ""Afrocentrism"" Became An Excuse To Teach Myth As History (New Republic Book)	Books	1	12	62	N	N	mary's view of little point	for one, the history of Egypt goes back much further than 1,000 yrs when it was over thrown by its now populated caucasion occupants, for the uninformed ones the original ppl were black as they still do exist there in small remote areas, also for those who keep on assuming based on the lack of others that the Egyptians did not have a written language please try again, being that they had a verbal language for communicating just as they had a written language which would be the symbols and the meanings they conveyed.  I guess some forget that the alphabets are just mere symbols that express meaning, unlike the Europeans the Africans put most of their symbolic meaning into pictorial writings and so had a different structure of what can be seen as alphabets, and since when if a group of ppl didnt have a written language this made them uncivilize? lol shame shame, it is so sad that mary has convinced everyone that she knows what she is talking about in her onesided point of view on afrocentricity inwhich she has no idea of what she speaks of, a true charlatan indeed, it would help in the future if ppl would investigate on their own instead of accepting the work of others which may hold very little merit!........so try again, lies will be lies, even the beloved charles darwin adimited to the truth, the past still precedes its inheritors along with the lies of the pass as well, what a shame for those who are victims of continuous racism, and we all know who are still the number 1 racist right? get a new hobby ppl, the history in the hands of right wingers will always be distorted you are better off watching reruns of mash laysa!	2003-01-29
US	36780571	R3E7T01RW2212T	0807845558	367442390	Black Athena Revisited (Series;[jossey-Bass Education)	Books	1	3	49	N	N	Egypt, before it was Europeanated	for those who keep on insisting that the ancient Egyptians were not black try again, for one, the original language of the Egyptians came from the ethiopians being that they were the ones who had expanded their culture and concepts for spiritual reasons and so they built Egypt, so please lets go much further than 1,000 or so yrs when much of the original has been replaced with nomadic b.s the simple fact that Egypt is now populated by caucasion or semite muslims should speak volumes to anyone who understands how that came about not to mention the whole christianity dogma that preceded it lol, please ppl lets not just rely on chopping down one person who has just as much exaggeration in his material as ms mary lol everyone knows that the past precedes its inheritors in all accounts, so for ppl to keep trying to convinced themselves and the rest of the world that the ancients were not black this is a empty attempt just look at the evidence in the paintings and sculptures, they left plenty of evidence of who they were as they still are outside of nomadic influences of semites and caucation invaders surely you can do better than going back thousand yrs, laysa, the deeper you dig the blacker the artifacts will be, and for any black historian to cover this up, then they are just sell outs to the truth just as history has always shown these brown nosers, still trying to be what you are not huh? lmao!	2003-01-29
US	36780571	RR902GHPOTP2F	046509838X	545172516	Not Out Of Africa: How ""Afrocentrism"" Became An Excuse To Teach Myth As History (New Republic Book)	Books	1	9	64	N	N	tsk tsk u are dismissed!	Actually the Egyptians, and the rest of africa did have written communications, but i wouldnt expect a bunch of charlatans to know the truth about others, they are only concern with their own fabrications.  Mary's book is a educator for continuous racism she couldnt even cover her debates without making personal attacks on others lmao!  so in the end mary projects empty information, which doesnt cover much ground.	2003-01-23
