US	36790246	R24KDMCPBPAMGV	0763618500	759650996	Willow at Christmas	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lovely and Charming in a throroughly British sort of way!	I love the Willow books. They are so charming, and sweet, and gentle. The watercolour illustrations too are soft and muted and downright adorable. Especially this Christmas story contains some pictures so sweet and pretty I'd like to frame them!<br />These books are perfect for a soothing, quiet story before bedtime--I would recommmend them for 3 to 6 year olds.<br />If you like stories with a delicious British flavour--like Wind in the Willows or The Hobbit--then you will definitely love these delightful picture books, in which Willow lives &quot;on Paradise Farm, at the bottom of Appleby Downs&quot;.	2005-08-15
US	36790246	R2I6N92VOM6Y94	0763614017	89242785	Willow by the Sea	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Charming and lovely in a throroughly British sort of way!	I love the Willow books. They are so charming, and sweet, and gentle. The watercolour illustrations too are soft and muted and downright adorable.<br />These books are perfect for a soothing, quiet story before bedtime--I would recommmend them for 3 to 6 year olds.<br />If you like stories with a delicious British flavour--like Wind in the Willows or The Hobbit--then you will definitely love these delightful picture books, in which Willow lives &quot;on Paradise Farm, at the bottom of Appleby Downs&quot;.	2005-08-15
US	36790246	R78M24ONC5XTB	0763610887	580445233	Willow on the River	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Charming and lovely in a throroughly British sort of way!	I love the Willow books. They are so charming, and sweet, and gentle. The watercolour illustrations too are soft and muted and downright adorable.<br />These books are perfect for a soothing, quiet story before bedtime--I would recommmend them for 3 to 6 year olds.<br />If you like stories with a delicious British flavour--like Wind in the Willows or The Hobbit--then you will definitely love these delightful picture books, in which Willow lives &quot;on Paradise Farm, at the bottom of Appleby Downs&quot;.	2005-08-15
US	36790246	R2NXO25VTF5RE6	1558584226	86388562	Wynken, Blynken, & Nod	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful Illustrations	Wynken, Blynken and Nod was one of my favourite poems as a child. The lovely, dreamy poem coupled with the beautiful, detailed illustrations in this publication make for a very special book for bedtime readings.	2005-08-09
US	36790246	R2CG5LMFQHPA73	0060092785	453948184	Autumnblings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Delightful, Whimsical Book of Poetry for Children	My 6-year old daughter and I love this book, which is filled with delightful poems and colourful paintings about autumn. The author uses a lot of plays on words which are quite amusing, and his poems really capture the images and feelings of autumn. If you like the fall season you will love this book. I would recommend it especially for kindergarden teachers.	2005-08-09
US	36790246	R33CZ7MU6UFPYY	0142301930	395008932	Rapunzel (Picture Puffin Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The most beautiful illustrations ever...	I know all the other reviewers have already said this, but I'm going to say it again: The illustrations in this book are simply gorgeous! I am floored that such care and time was taken to paint the pictures for a children's book--most of the artwork looks like it should be hanging in the renaissance section of a major art gallery. Beautiful!<br />As for the story, it's one of the better retellings of Rapunzel--not whitewashed like the terrible Barbie version that came out a few years ago! My 6-year old daughter loves this book, and so do I. (Just a note, that yes Rapunzel does get pregnant in the story but only after she and the Prince had a secret wedding ceremony).	2005-08-09
US	36790246	R2K9LUDL0C3PL5	0143016814	333666719	The Silences of Home	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Beautiful, Thought-provoking, and Exciting Book	I read this book after Sweet's first book, A Telling of Stars. The Silences of Home is written in a different style than that book--multiple viewpoints instead of one, a fast-moving plot instead of dense lyrical prose--but this one is still just as compelling.<br />It is an enchanting book, and I admit that once I got to the halfway point, at which a suspenseful attack scene occurs, I could not put it down. I have sorely neglected my housework over the past two days in order to finish it--I simply had to find out what happened, not only because the story was exciting but because I cared so much about all the characters.<br />The characters of the book are likeable and flawed, as well as extremely complex, like real people, and they act in unpredictable ways. The first half of the book I kept thinking that I was reading foreshadowing of dire events, but halfway through I realized that nothing was going to happen like I thought. And I was right. As I read on the author surprised me again and again. Sometimes the surprises were sweet, sometimes bitter. Just like real life, I could never predict what anyone was going to do.<br />The theme of written history possibly being lies was an interesting one. It was fascinating after reading A Telling of Stars, and learning of the legend of Queen Gahla, to learn in this book what really had transpired during her reign. And to have the characters themselves discussing how these events were to be recorded was an interesting twist! In this way The Silences of Home gave me a great deal of food for thought.<br />In the end I felt that the characters met a fate that they deserved. The ending was not neat and tidy, it was not all happy--some parts were quite sad--but it was right and just.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a stand-alone fantasy novel which is a little bit different--a little more literary than most fantasy, a little more character-driven, a little more complex. Don't be fooled that this story is only one book instead of a trilogy--so much happens in the story. It's a satisfying book that, once you pick it up, I promise you won't be able to put down.y is only one book instead of a trilogy--so much happens in the story. It's a satisfying book that, once you pick it up, I promise you won't be able to put down.	2005-07-01
US	36790246	R1VTJ4C9KK5CA1	1587284413	419718042	Picture That: Knights & Castles	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Beautifully Illustrated Overview of the Middle Ages	The title of this book, Knights and Castles, is a little bit misleading, for the contents of the book cover so much more than merely that. The author does write about what it meant to be a knight and live in a castle, but he also covers many aspects of life in Middle Ages Europe (such as life on a farm, games children played, banquets and jousts)in a way that is interesting and easily accessible to young people.<br />Knights and Castles is one of the &quot;Picture That!&quot; series by Two-Can Press. I love the idea behind this series: the books are illustrated not with modern artist's drawings or photographs of artifacts, but with actual art from the time period. In this case the book is filled with beautiful, detailed paintings from throughout the Middle Ages. Each painting offers fascinating glimpes into another time if attention is paid to the details within.<br />Books on the Middle Ages abound for young readers, but this one is one of the best. Even as an adult I enjoyed reading it (and looking at the pictures!) immensely. Highly recommended.	2005-06-19
US	36790246	R24H60Z1EKW9EY	0141007281	751969775	A Telling of Stars	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Rich, Emotional, Beautifully Written Novel	I have just completed A Telling of Stars. One word is floating around in my head the most: beautiful. Jaele's story of loss and her search for vengeance, and especially the prose in which it is written, is very beautiful. I haven't read such a throroughly lovely book in a long time, and I was a bit sad when I reached the last page (although perhaps the last few pages were the most delicious of all).<br />I can't stress enough how much I enjoyed Caitlin's prose. It was at once utterly sparse and beautifully lyrical. What economy of language! Caitlin's prose reminded me of Guy Kay. But even Kay doesn't pare down his language so much. I was very impressed with the way Caitlin managed to convey sharp images and worlds of meaning with only a few well placed words.<br />I found it refreshing, after reading so much epic fantasy, to read a book which chronicled the journey of only one person. I think that narrowing the focus of the story to one POV makes it all the more compelling and poignant. Soon into the book I began to care deeply for Jaele and for the friends she meets on her journey.<br />Much in the book surprised me. A strength of the book is its unpredictability. Everything I figured would happen, didn't. In this unpredictability it had a feeling of real life despite the fantastic nature of so much of the book.<br />Which brings me to another point: Caitlin has formidable powers of imagination. Starfish that juggle shells! Birds that spin webs of silk! An entire orchard of fruit trees underground! And so much more...from beginning to end Telling is filled with descriptions of things and places that made me say, &quot;hey, that's so cool...&quot;<br />Over the course of Jaele's journey she grows more reliant on her own strength and less on others. It's amazing and wonderful to watch the transformation in her character even as she journeys to such strange and wondrous places.<br />The ending of the book, in which Jaele comes to a powerful realization about those people she has loved and lost, was breathtaking. A fitting finale for an emotionally powerful book.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys either the lyrical, emotional style of Guy Kay or the sparse yet powerful prose of Ursula Le Guin.people she has loved and lost, was breathtaking. A fitting finale for an emotionally powerful book.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys either the lyrical, emotional style of Guy Kay or the sparse yet powerful prose of Ursula Le Guin.	2005-06-13
US	36790246	R1QEL7IYL6J1QW	0756402190	460694079	1: Shadowmarch: Shadowmarch: Volume I	Books	3	48	54	N	N	Not Williams' Best Work	I just finished Shadowmarch. To be honest, I wasn't very impressed. Not that it was a bad book, but it wasn't up to par with Williams' usual quality of writing.<br />The Good Points:<br />-The prologue was excellent, mysterious and gripping, and really drew me into the book. The blind king and motionless queen were very intriguing.<br />-Williams did a good job of creating many more questions than answers in this book so you want to keep reading to solve the mysteries. Especially at the end of the book, the world is in upheaval, all the characters are embarking on journeys, and I would like to see what happens to everybody in the next book.<br />-The scenes describing the Qar were interesting and well written. I especially liked the descriptions of their main stronghold, where Williams really shows off his imagination and powers of description.<br />The Not So Good Points:<br />-VERY few of the human characters were exceptional or even interesting in any way. I didn't care about these characters nearly as much as I did about those from Memory, Sorrow and Thorn and Otherland. Indeed, a good half dozen of the characters seem like boring remakes of characters from MS&amp;T. Barrick and Briony seemed to me like annoying versions of Simon &amp; Miriamele, right down to the colour of their hair! I won't bother to mention all the others...The only human I really liked was Ferras Vansen--he's such a darn nice guy. Also, Chert and Opal Quartz were pretty endearing.<br />-I felt that there were a couple too many POVs. It diluted the story. Especially Quinnitan's story--if Williams was going to include her, shouldn't he at least have hinted by the end of the book what on earth she has to do with anything?<br />-The setting of Southmarch didn't seem very interesting to me. Maybe it's because there were too many places and people named--after a while I just found it confusing. And the maps in the front of the book are hard to read. Osten Ard from MS&amp;T was a much more appealing setting for an epic fantasy.<br />-Lastly, I was surprised to see that the quality of writing was inconsistent throughout the book. Usually Williams' writing sparkles--for me, anyway--but in this book, while some parts definitely kept me on the edge of my seat (for example the scene where Vansen meets the Qar woman in the forest) some parts, indeed many, were simply dull. At times when I was reading I was thinking, &quot;hey, this is pretty good!&quot; and sometimes I was thinking &quot;this is boring...&quot; there was little consistency.<br />In all the first volume of Shadowmarch was okay. I'll pick up the next installment when it comes out. But still, I was very disappointed in it for a book of Tad Williams, whose stuff I normally love.<br />If you've never read anything by Williams before I would strongly suggest picking up Memory, Sorrow and Thorn instead, starting with The Dragonbone Chair, because it's SO much better.for an epic fantasy.<BR>-Lastly, I was surprised to see that the quality of writing was inconsistent throughout the book. Usually Williams' writing sparkles--for me, anyway--but in this book, while some parts definitely kept me on the edge of my seat (for example the scene where Vansen meets the Qar woman in the forest) some parts, indeed many, were simply dull. At times when I was reading I was thinking, &quot;hey, this is pretty good!&quot; and sometimes I was thinking &quot;this is boring...&quot; there was little consistency.<br />In all the first volume of Shadowmarch was okay. I'll pick up the next installment when it comes out. But still, I was very disappointed in it for a book of Tad Williams, whose stuff I normally love.<br />If you've never read anything by Williams before I would strongly suggest picking up Memory, Sorrow and Thorn instead, starting with The Dragonbone Chair, because it's SO much better.	2005-05-23
US	36790246	R1Z3DVHHYZRU4U	1573223328	608984993	Across the Nightingale Floor (Tales of the Otori, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stunning Fantasy with a Japanese Setting	I love books with a Japanese setting, and Hearn's Otori trilogy are some of the best I've read.<br />Her prose is simple, often sparse, but as beautiful as haiku. She evokes the atmosphere of feudal Japan with a minimum of words and with great skill.<br />The best part about Hearn's writing is that it moves so quickly. There are no boring parts!<br />Across the Nightingale Floor gripped me from the first page, not only because it was so beautifully written and interesting but because I really cared about the characters, who are all struggling to to the best they can in a harsh and demanding world.<br />The following two books, Grass for His Pillow and Brilliance of the Moon are just as compelling and well-written as this book. I highly recommend the entire trilogy.<br />If you like reading about traditional Japanese culture, you'll love these books!	2005-02-25
US	36790246	R1OZJZ2JAR445C	0006393195	984290410	The Summer Tree (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Beautiful Story set in a Beautiful World	I love the Fionavar Tapestry. In these books Kay has woven a beautiful, complex story. The setting is Fionavar, a gorgeous and enchanted world filled with magic and history--a world which reminds me of Narnia or Middle Earth. The story is filled with strong, compelling characters, both male and female, who sometimes have to make difficult choices. At times the story is sad but Kay's writing is so graceful that I enjoyed even the sad parts.<br />The Summer Tree, the first book in the trilogy, begins the story very nicely and draws the reader into the deep magic of Fionavar. The part of the story with Paul hanging on the Summer Tree was very beautifully written, and at many points reached the magestic feeling of an ancient myth or legend.<br />I would highly recommend The Fionavar Tapestry to anyone who enjoys epic fantasy with powerful magic and attractive settings.	2004-07-31
US	36790246	R1C71K4AG6QXB4	0006393209	161809485	Wandering Fire (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Beautiful Story Set in a Beautiful World	I love the Fionavar Tapestry. In these books Kay has woven a beautiful, complex story. The setting is Fionavar, a gorgeous and enchanted world filled with magic and history--a world which reminds me of Narnia or Middle Earth. The story is filled with strong, compelling characters, both male and female, who sometimes have to make difficult choices. At times the story is sad but Kay's writing is so graceful that I enjoyed even the sad parts.<br />The Wandering Fire, the second book in the triology, continues the saga begun in The Summer Tree. It contains many moments not only of excitement and action but poignant emotion, especially in the stories of Darien and Finn and that of Kevin.<br />I would highly recommend The Fionavar Tapestry to anyone who enjoys epic fantasy with powerful magic and beautiful settings.	2004-07-31
US	36790246	R3VER48YNK1DO6	0006393217	455724276	The Darkest Road (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Beautiful Story in a Beautiful Setting	I love the Fionavar Tapestry. In these books Kay has woven a beautiful, complex story. The setting is Fionavar, a gorgeous and enchanted world filled with magic and history--a world which reminds me of Narnia or Middle Earth. The story is filled with strong, compelling characters, both male and female, who sometimes have to make difficult choices. At times the story is sad but Kay's writing is so graceful that I enjoyed even the sad parts.<br />The Longest Road, the last book in the trilogy, was for the me the most emotional and heartbreaking. I cried many times before reaching the end, but Kay's story is never bitter, only bittersweet. And within it there also lies true joy for some characters. The closing chapters of this story are magnificent in scope and feeling, and when I turned the last page I felt satisfied.<br />I would highly recommend The Fionavar Tapestry to anyone who enjoys epic fantasy with powerful magic and attractive settings.	2004-07-31
US	36790246	R2GGOR3935XYWR	0140289224	416827421	Tigana	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Magnificent Saga of a Dark World	I just finished reading Tigana today and I must say that I loved it.<br />The first chapter starts very slowly. But I slogged through it, and by the time I was a few chapters in I was totally hooked. The story builds slowly, but it does build, and by the last chapter of the book I could hardly breathe because I was so eager to find out what happened.<br />The story is not predictable. I like complex stories like this that take lots of twists and turns, and contain significant surpises. I also like books like this that mostly deal with shades of grey instead of black and white, because they make you think. Often while reading Tigana I had to put the book down to think for a few moments if a character had been justified for doing something. I felt every bit as much sympathy for Brandin and Dianora, because their deplorable actions were done with love in mind, as I felt for Alessan and his group. This is like real life, where bad guys and good guys rarely exist.<br />Kay's writing contains a message of compassion for all people. But there was one character I really disliked and could feel no sympathy for: Alberico, not only because he killed so many innocent people gruesomely because he seemed to have no feelings at all, no soul, only a cold meaninless ambition. He didn't care about anything except his desire to be Emperor.<br />As well as the dark and pensive themes of the book, I enjoyed Kay's writing style as always. Although his poetic prose sometimes borders on melodrama he has the power to take my breath away. Rarely do I read a book and want to read certain lines over and over again because they're so beautiful.<br />The book is full of memorable scenes that are dripping with strong emotion. I felt everything along with the characters: the fear, the pain, the helplessness, the love and elation. I don't think I've ever read another author who conveys such depths of emotion as Kay.<br />If you like shocking surprises you'll like this book, because it contains quite a few. My jaw dropped open more than once!<br />All in all a great book that I'll always remember. Kay is a master of emotional, poignant writing that also makes you think. If you're willing to dedicate some time to this book (it's on the long side) as well as some mindpower (it's not something you can breeze through) then you won't be sorry.uite a few. My jaw dropped open more than once! <br />All in all a great book that I'll always remember. Kay is a master of emotional, poignant writing that also makes you think. If you're willing to dedicate some time to this book (it's on the long side) as well as some mindpower (it's not something you can breeze through) then you won't be sorry.	2004-06-08
US	36790246	R3KYJZZ9I7URYU	0694013218	750550465	What to Expect When Mommy's Having a Baby (What to Expect Kids)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A good book on pregnancy for younger children	This book explains a lot of aspects of pregnancy to very young children in a simple way. My five year-old daughter, who is very bright, had a few questions answered by this book but I think that it was a bit too simple for her. It didn't answer all of her questions.<br />Also, this book is very short. I expected it to be longer for the price. But its simplicity would be appropriate for a very young child--say, 2 to 4 years old.<br />If your child is any older than 5 I wouldn't bother with this book, but for a young child it would be perfect.	2004-06-08
US	36790246	R3BAVEPGBPHISI	0698113993	57572466	Berlioz the Bear	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another Jan Brett Favourite	My 5 year-old daughter loves this book. Not only are the illustrations fascinating and detailed as in all of Brett's books, but the story is very charming and funny. The surprise ending will make you and your child giggle for certain.	2004-06-03
US	36790246	R3M37D8BLMCY4O	0439967023	465705531	Badger's New House	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Darling Children's Book	I just bought this book for my 5 year-old daughter and she loves it. The charming story contains some positive lessons about hard work and friendship, and introduces to children the concept that a big fancy house is not necessarily the best home for everyone; sometimes the little old cozy cottage feels more like home.<br />The book's real strong point though is the illustrations. The art in this book is so soft and friendly looking, as well as detailed. Your child will love poring over the beautiful illustrations in this book.<br />Highly recommended.	2004-06-03
US	36790246	R16R6A79CYSMDV	1551801892	508227184	Writing Science Fiction and Fantasy (Self-Counsel Writing)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	One of the best books for aspiring genre writers	I've read several books aimed at writers of science fiction and fantasy. This one has proven to be the most useful to me.<br />Kilian covers a lot of information in his book--beginning with the elementary teachings of the Knowing Your Genre section--without going into tedious detail. The parts at the end of the book on actually getting published were fine, although this information can be found in countless other books and on many websites.<br />The part of the book I found the most helpful and illuminating was the middle part, entitled The Craft of Writing Science Fiction and Fantasy. It includes the following sections:<br />Developing Efficient Work Habits<br />Research and Soul Search<br />Elements of a Successful Story<br />Developing Characters<br />Plotting<br />Constructing a Scene<br />Narrative Voice<br />Exposition and Dialogue<br />Symbolism and All That<br />I found the last section on symbolism and the hero's quest especially interesting.<br />If you want to write sci-fi or fantasy but aren't really sure where you should begin, this would be a great book to pick up. I highly recommend it.	2004-05-25
US	36790246	RGHUHD2FZN6KF	0140290931	469239951	A Song for Arbonne	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Fabulous Book from Guy Kay	I love A Song for Arbonne.<br />I admit that the book started out a little bit slowly, as action was frequently interrupted by characters musing over the past. But once the back story was sufficiently explained and the main plot really began, I couldn't put the book down. Kay completely surprised and delighted me many times (as well as made me cry), and the battle scene towards the end of the book was simply one of the best I've ever read--so emotionally charged and unpredictable, as battle truly is.<br />Even though the prose in this book might not be quite as perfect as in his more recent works (like The Last Light of the Sun, which is one of my favourite books EVER), nevertheless many of Kay's senteces here are pure poetry.<br />The ending of the book was utterly delightful and made me laugh out loud before closing the book with a smile on my face.<br />Another reviewer mentioned that this book contains graphic sex, which is simply not true. The book does contain a few scenes of sexuality, but they are very tasteful and well done and leave everything to the imagination. I honestly can't figure out how someone could be offended by Kay's tasteful and maturely written books.<br />There are a few of Kay's books I have not read, and I truly look forward to it because I believe he is a writer of the very highest calibre. He makes you laugh, and cry, and possibly even come away from his books a better person.	2004-05-21
US	36790246	R2ZQQU9WKSNKRY	0770429351	264457638	Oryx and Crake	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Clever, but depressing and disappointing	I have read most of Atwood's novels and consider her to be a talented writer. Alias Grace and The Blind Assasin I especially admire.<br />However, I was very disappointed in Oryx and Crake. It could be that my reading tastes have changed since last I read Atwood, but I found this book to be plain depressing. There was hardly a glimmer of hope, not a moment of happiness for me as I read along with Jimmy/Snowman throughout his troubled childhood in the &quot;compounds&quot;, his unhappy youth, and his struggle to survive and keep his sanity intact in the post-Crake world. I became more and more depressed as the story progessed and I came to realize just how screwed up Atwood's version of the future was. Everything, it seemed, was wrong with the world and humanity was doomed even before Crake came along with his &quot;genius&quot; mind. It doesn't bring me any enjoyment to think of humanity going to hell in a handbasket, even if it is fiction, and I don't share her apparent view that humans, if given the technology, will destroy themselves by their greed and stupidity.<br />Yes, Atwood provided piercing and disturbing views of what the future of humanity might be--and her imagination is supreme. Her creativity is very admirable. It's very clever all of it, but so pessimistic that I could hardly stand the book as I was reading it. I kept reading though, only because I wanted to find out how Snowman could possibly have arrived at such a state.<br />The ending explained everything for the most part but I found it unsatisfying and felt that the story ended rather abruptly.<br />As for the characters, none of them has any redeeming qualities, with the possible exception of Jimmy's mother. I didn't like a single character. Crake is a heartless megolomaniac; Jimmy is a dunce who refuses to see the truth about anything and just coaxes through life letting others decide things for him; Oryx is flake who is thinks everyone who abuses her is &quot;a good man.&quot; And of course every corporation in the future is morally corrupt, playing god, making people sick so they can sell them medicine, etc. etc.<br />The Blind Assassin had some moments of joy with the forbidden love affair, but this book is just sad. I wish I would have saved my money on this one. I gave it two stars only because as I said, many of Atwood's ideas are quite clever and her writing style is good.<br />Read this book if you want sobre food for thought, but not if you want a good story, lovable characters, or a happy ending.every corporation in the future is morally corrupt, playing god, making people sick so they can sell them medicine, etc. etc.<br />The Blind Assassin had some moments of joy with the forbidden love affair, but this book is just sad. I wish I would have saved my money on this one. I gave it two stars only because as I said, many of Atwood's ideas are quite clever and her writing style is good.<br />Read this book if you want sobre food for thought, but not if you want a good story, lovable characters, or a happy ending.	2004-05-06
US	36790246	R3GMU1CASVG4R8	0736412263	891882769	Piglet Feels Small (Step-Into-Reading, Step 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A perfect book for beginning readers	My 5-year old daughter is just learning how to read, and this was the first book I bought her that she could read all the way through on her own. Step Into Reading Step One books have large print, repetition, and only a few words on every page--perfect for a child just in the beginning stages of reading. My daughter was so proud of herself after she read through this story (which, by the way, is very cute--and the illustrations are nice too).<br />My daughter says: &quot;Piglet is small but he is a big friend.&quot;<br />The message of this book, which is that even if you're small you can do lots of things, will boost a child's confidence even if they can't read the book on their own.	2004-05-06
US	36790246	RVIQMD9A6QMXD	0451529014	388348265	The Black Jewels: Trilogy: Daughter of the Blood / Heir to the Shadows / Queen of the Darkness	Books	4	0	2	N	N	I couldn't put this book down!	This trilogy is exciting and entertaining and very hard to put down.<br />The books are fascinating, intense, and memorable. The dark, very magical world Bishop created, in which females are dominant, was one of the more interesting and original fantasy worlds I've read about. I especially liked the magic system, which depends on a hierarcy of different coloured jewels. The darker the jewel someone wears, the more powerful is their magic. And there is a lot of magic in these books--fights are fought more with magic than with weapons. But I like that.<br />The characters are great also--I especially loved Daemon. I've never met a character so filled with contradictions. So cruel, and so yet so kind. (And so sexy!)<br />My only complaint about the series, and the reason I didn't give it 5 stars, is that the second two books lost some of the dark, erotic, mysterious feel that the first book had, and  contained a lot of cheesy wisecracks which annoyed me somewhat. It seemed to me that Bishop was trying to lighten the mood, and this disappointed me because I was enjoying the dark mood. (Not that the characters joking around wasn't funny, but it didn't really match with the first book.) However, by the second half of the third book, when the real Daemon returns, the mood becomes darker and more intense again.<br />The ending is suitably dramatic, although I wished Bishop had included a bit more detail--it felt somewhat rushed. Yet it was satisfying enough.<br />These books do contain some sex and violence, but nothing that I found overly graphic or offensive.<br />All in all, these books were a great read. Not great literature, but highly entertaining. I'll remember Daemon, Jaenelle, Saetan, and Lucivar for quite some time. In fact, I think that I'm going to miss them...	2004-05-03
US	36790246	R2I793UHI0HOO5	0670043192	960632728	Last Light of the Sun (Canadian Ed)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One of the Best Books I've Ever Read...	I am an amateur writer myself, and this is one of those books which, after I read the last line and put it down, make me say to myself....<br />$%#@. I could NEVER write anything half so good.<br />This book made me laugh out loud. It made me cry (many times). It gave me the shivers. It's the first book by GGK I've read, and now I will be buying all of his other books. Even if they are half as good as this one was, it will be worth my money.<br />What did I like so much about it? Well, for one, it's complex. This is no simple battle of good and evil, but a complicated weaving of individual's life stories into a greater story. There are no bad buys or good guys, but just people, trying to live their lives, trying to survive. And I loved the way he shows how small things can create larger chains of events, how you never know where your life will end up. In this I feel the book is true to life, because personally I don't believe in destiny. I think we all have the power to make change in our own lives, and the characters in the book do that.<br />I also liked the setting. Kay renames the Vikings, Welsh and Saxons, and makes them his own, but it's obvious that he's talking about northern Europe in the Viking age, a time and place which I find fascinating.<br />The characters are wonderful. So many likeable people. You can't help but care what happens to them. Especially the women, which Kay seems to feel a special sympathy for as women in this time period were not allowed into the spheres of life which men enjoyed. They were forced to sit back and let the men fight the wars...even those women who wanted to wield a sword themselves.<br />Lastly, although the book is filled with darkness, both literal and figurative, I will say that the ending was happy, truly happy. Which is what really makes a book satisfying for me--to reach the end and discover that all is as it should be.<br />Well, can you tell I like the book yet? The Last Light of the Sun will definitely be in my top ten list. Actually, my top five--and I've read a lot of books. Read it yourself and you'll know why. :)top ten list. Actually, my top five--and I've read a lot of books. Read it yourself and you'll know why. :)	2004-03-20
US	36790246	RQ3SIZAO2M0JY	0967059844	823604772	The Well-Fed Writer: Financial Self-Sufficiency As a Freelance Writer in Six Months or Less	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Enjoyable Read	I am an aspiring copywriter.<br />I have no experience.<br />But after reading this book, I believe I can do it! Bowerman's book is light-hearted, fun to read, and inspiring. I am encouraged by his belief that the key to success is not experience, but confidence and ablitity to market oneself.<br />It remains to be seen if I can succeed using his methods, and I understand that luck comes into play as well. Not every one will succeed as he did doing what he did. But, I'm going to try.<br />This book does not contain practical information about how to write different kinds of copy--you can find that in The Copywriter's Handbook or Start and Run a Copywriter's Business. What this book does contain is solid advice on marketing yourself and a hefty dose of encouragement.<br />If you're thinking about becoming a copywriter but just aren't sure if you can do it, BUY THIS BOOK.	2003-11-18
US	36790246	R1CW4FJXDL3R3G	0345459407	981903971	Perdido Street Station	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Very disappointing	China's gift for language is admirable. His descriptions in this book jump right off the page, and the characters are all very well drawn. As well, his powers of imagination are formidable and Perdido Street Station is bursting with originality.<br />However, I strongly disliked this book and put it down--gave it to charity, actually--after reading only 150 pages. Why? Because although I felt like I was really in the world the author created, I detested that world. There is nothing beautiful there, nothing admirable--just filth and misery. When I read a book I want it to be an escape from real life--to someplace better, not to someplace worse.<br />I was also turned off by the scene near the beginning of the main character having sex with the insect-woman. But even though that part was so strange, I kept on reading...and eventually decided that it was just a waste of time.<br />I need something at least a little bit more uplifting and a little less depressing.	2003-11-04
US	36790246	R1PJ472IJAL9Y8	0553250426	302380866	The Clan of the Cave Bear: Earth's Children, Book One	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Wonderful Story, If Poorly Written	Clan of the Cave Bear is a fantastic story, one which fascinated me. In what other book do we get to read about what Neanderthals may have been like? And it was not only stimulating to the intellect, but to the soul. The story is truly heart-wrenching and I really felt for the characters.<br />My only complaint is that the book needed some serious editing. Auel is a talented story-teller...but her writing skills leave something to be desired. Namely, she switches point of view so often in this story that I often had to reread a paragraph to find out whose thoughts were being shared. She'll switch from Creb, to the narrator, to Iza, to Ayla, and back to the narrator again--and often within the same paragraph! Very sloppy writing, and confusing for the reader.<br />However fortunately for Auel, the story speaks for itself. I fully intend to read the rest of this most interesting series.	2003-11-04
US	36790246	R3H602CA0GLRKY	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	2	7	16	N	N	Not Your Average Fantasy	What all the reviews say about this book is true--it's something new for the fantasy genre--in fact, it barely fits in that genre at all. I have to admit I've never read anything quite like it. And while many readers will enjoy this very original, senusal, sophisticated book, others who prefer a more traditional kind of fantasy writing (like myself) will find it hard to finish. In fact, at the time of writing this review I'm only half done the book and I don't think I'm going to finish it. Quite frankly, I found the graphic scenes of masochistic ... (both heterosexual and homosexual) quite distasteful. It's just not something that I can relate to, although I will admit it is written in a sophisticated language--no crude language is used. If anything, the language of this book is too flowery. The plot outside of Phedre's career as a courtesan I find both confusing--dozens of names, the Duc of this and the Comtesse of that--and quite boring--it all seems to be about nothing but court intrigue, which is a waste of time for me to read. In a fantasy novel I want to see magic and exciting battle scenes. Although Kushiel's Dart does have many vivid characters, the plot just doesn't interest me. Perhaps it gets more interesing toward the end of the book; but I'm not sure if I can make it that far.	2002-04-03
