US	36800531	R2NRV1A46RD0TD	1400063175	905858065	Dying to Win: The Strategic Logic of Suicide Terrorism	Books	5	17	25	N	N	Essential to understanding suicide terrorism	Pape offers in this extremely well-researched book a meticulous account of suicide terrorism. What separates this book from the rest of the literature on suicide terrorism is that it refuses to simplify the root causes of this terrifying phenomenon. Mr. Pape has conducted a thorough research having analyzed every single suicide attack in the last 20 years. What factors motivate suicide bombers? Why is a young man prepared to take his own life and simultaneously commit a gruesome atrocity by taking many innocent lives with him? Is it because this young man abhors Western values such as our freedom and economic prosperity? Could it be so simple?  <br /> <br />Needless to say, many experts have argued that suicide bombers target the West because  they are driven by religious motives found in their religion. This explanation is flawed for the following reasons. According to Pape, most suicide bombers seek to expel a foreign power from their countries. Thus, it is the Western interference in the Middle East that suicide bombers want to obliterate. Pape argues that this is the principal motive behind almost every suicide attack. Second, contrary to popular belief, most suicide bombers are not religious fundamentalists, they are secular individuals. To prove this seemingly contradictory argument, Pape divulges a highly important finding, namely that the group responsible for the worst suicide attacks (Tamil Tigers) consists of secular individuals. Subsequently, Pape easily refutes the most pervasive misconception in the West that suicide bombers are always deranged religious zealots. Most suicide bombers reveal in their communiqus that their primary objective is to expel foreign troops from their lands. Nothing in these communiqus indicate that they loathe our freedom, economic prosperity or democracy, and yet, this is what our media are trying to tell us. <br /> <br />You may by now be wondering why it is crucial that we understand the root causes of suicide terrorism.First, let there be no doubt about it, understanding a certain phenomenon is by no means the same as condoning it. All terrorist acts are morally reprehensible and must be severely punished. None the less, can we solve any problem without knowing what caused it in the first place? I believe we cannot. Can a doctor offer an effective treatment unless the diagnosis is accurate? Can we solve a conflict between two nations and offer a just solution unless we know who caused the problem in the first place?  <br /> <br />Pape's book proves that we need a more sophisticated analysis of suicide terrorism. It is imperative that we avoid making simplistic conclusions, such as the most common one that suicide terrorism is a result of religious extremism. Not only is this type of reasoning inaccurate but also dangerous as it widens the gap between Muslims and the rest of the world. As Pape has demonstrated in his book, most suicide bombers are driven by political motives and not religious ones, as is frequently assumed in the West. This is an important distinction because it sets the record straight once and for all: terrorism has nothing to do with Islam. Needless to say, most Muslims are peace-loving human beings who live in peace and harmony with people of other religious convictions. Sure, there are extremists but there are extremists in every religion. Unfortunately, the sole focus is on the extremist elements in the Muslim world today. Little if any focus is devoted to Christian or Jewish fundamentalism and that I think is unfair.  <br /> <br />As Noam Chomsky once brilliantly pointed out: unless we judge our own actions by the same standards we apply to others we can never talk about justice. Unless we acknowledge the root causes of terrorism and unless we avoid making sensationalistic albeit incorrect and grossly oversimplified conclusions then eradicating terrorism will be extremely difficult. I believe that Pape's book is crucial to understanding this odious phenomenon. A must read for anyone seeking to comprehend the complex world we live in. In addition to this book, I also highly recommend Islam, Fundamentalism and the Betrayal of Tradition: Essays by Western Muslim Scholars by Joseph Lumbard. It is a masterpiece.	2005-10-04
US	36800531	R2OK1IL8IJ6KDO	0195154355	511670641	Unholy War: Terror in the Name of Islam	Books	5	16	25	N	N	A tour de force in every respect!	<br />John Esposito, a noted authority on Islam, has written an eloquent defense of Islam. Extensively researched, this book completely dispels many of the prevailing misconceptions about Islam. Esposito argues that Islam must not be looked upon as monolithic. Needless to say, only an imbecile can argue otherwise given that over 1 billion Muslims inhabit this world, many of whom speak different languages, have different cultures, traditions, mores and histories. Christians, Jews, Hindus and others are different even though they share some common characteristics. No matter how many things members of any given group have in common, they can never be the same.  <br /> <br />Esposito astutely observes that the root causes of fundamentalism are social and economic grievances. Contrary to popular belief, Islamic fundamentalists do not target the West because of its wealth and prosperity. This is a convenient albeit simplistic and flawed explanation. Here are the reasons why this explanation falls short. First and foremost, virtually all fundamentalists come from the countries where despair and abject poverty are commonplace. Second, they initially emerge as resistance groups opposing the authoritative regimes and/or struggling against oppression. A case in point is Hizbollah, an organization which was created following the Israeli occupation of southern Lebanon. Another example is Hamas, which was also created following the Israeli occupation of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank. However, not all organizations arise in response to an external threat; many organizations fight against the autocratic regimes.  <br /> <br />Esposito differentiates between a Jihad which is waged in self-defense and the \\"expansionist\\" Jihad which is waged against atheists and non-Muslims, the latter being strongly rejected by a vast majority of Muslims. Esposito further asserts that many Western commentators use quotes from Quaran to prove that the religion Islam condones and even encourages terrorism and violence. The problem with this method is that these quotes are frequently taken out of their proper context and the period in which they were written. For example, Esposito shows a quote often used by the Western experts to demonstrate that Islam encourages a conflict with Christians and Jews. Nonetheless, he then shows a verse immediately following this quote which explicitly states that the Muslims should seek peace if that is what the Christians and Jews also want. Paradoxically although unsurprisingly, the Western experts deliberately overlook this verse.  <br /> <br />One cannot overstress the fact that Islam does NOT condone terrorism. In point of fact, Islam strictly prohibits killing of innocent civilians. Those who perpetrate these abhorrent atrocities are hijacking Islam. It is imperative to understand that an overwhelming majority of Muslims abhor terrorism and the indiscriminate slaughter of innocent civilians. Only if one's life is threatened is murder permitted. While Esposito acknowledges that certain elements of the Quaran may be obsolete and controversial, he also says that the same holds for Christianity, Judaism and every other religion. More importantly, Esposito correctly observes that unless we acknowledge the root causes of terrorism and fundamentalism it will be almost impossible to win the war against terror. For instance, if I am seriously ill I cannot possibly expect a recovery unless my doctor finds out what is wrong with me. If misdiagnosed, I will never get well again.  <br /> <br />So, in order to win the war against terror, Mr. Esposito suggests that the following must be done: <br />- The moderate Muslim populations must confront the extremist elements within their communities and strongly condemn terrorist attacks. <br />-  Respected Muslim scholars must offer their interpretation of controversial verses in order to explain to the Muslims that Islam does NOT teach violence and terrorism. Islam preaches empathy, peace and piety.  <br />- The U.S. must reevaluate and alter its extremely flawed foreign policy. The U.S. must stop supporting autocratic regimes in the Middle East and elsewhere. The unconditional support for Israel must come to an end; the U.S. must start judging the actions of Israelis by the same standards it applies to all Arab countries. When Israel violates human rights it must be punished just as Iraq, Iran and other Arab countries get punished.  <br />- We must do everything to bridge the gap between Islam and Christianity.  <br /> <br />Only when we understand that living in peace and harmony is for the benefit of all will we have a decent chance at obliterating terrorism. After all, the only thing that really matters is the content of a man's character. Whether one is Christian, Muslim, Jew or Hindu is completely irrelevant but I guess that is only a utopia. I hope not!  <br /> <br />This extraordinarily well written book is strongly recommended to all who wish to gain a more complex and nuanced analysis of the Islamic fundamentalism.  <br /> <br />P.S. Unfortunately it seems that the only way for the people of this earth to unite is in face of a threat from the outer space. Have not we human beings learned anything from the history?	2005-08-29
US	36800531	RTIEIHR7W14MR	1893554589	222786852	Islam Unveiled: Disturbing Questions About the World's Fastest-Growing Faith	Books	1	42	119	N	N	A grossly distorted and parochial view of Islam	There are over 1 billion Muslims worldwide who do not have the same cultures, traditions and histories; often they do not even speak the same languages. Is it logical or even plausible to assume that they are homogenous? Let me ask the question this way: are Christians, Jews or Hindus homogenous? Even though most people would say that all of the above are heterogeneous, there are some people who strongly contend that all Muslims are evil, uncivilized and backwards. While this argument for obvious reasons warrants no serious comment, the fact that it is frequently invoked by Western intellectuals remains a paradox.  <br /> <br />If I were to make s statement that all Christians are pedophiles because a small number of priests in the U.S. have molested children I would be ridiculed and ostracized. But I am a rational human being, I know better. Judging an entire group of people based on the actions of its minority is sheer bigotry and ignorance. I think that most people would agree on this. Similarly, I would never say that all Christians are racists because of the actions of the Ku Klux Klan. I know better. Basically all it takes is common sense and open-mindedness. No group of people can ever be the same; they may be similar, they may have much in common but they are never completely the same. This is irrefutable. In light of these self-evident truths, how can anyone even begin to generalize about Muslims? Spencer is convinced that all Muslims pose a serious threat to the West. Since Islam, Spencer argues, is inherently incompatible with the Western values the two cannot possibly co-exist in peace and harmony. According to Mr. Spencer, Islam preaches violence, intolerance and the extermination of atheists and non-Muslims. Nothing could be farther from the truth! Islam teaches tolerance, piety, empathy, solidarity and non-violence. Please refer to one of the foremost authorities on Islam Mr. John Esposito for corroboration. Mr. Esposito astutely observes in his bookThe Unholy War: Terror in the name of Islam that Western commentators frequently refuse to make a distinction between political Islam and the religion of Islam. Elaborating, Mr. Esposito points out that Western experts usually make biased and oversimplified statements about Islam. When it comes to Islam, overgeneralization is rampant. A vast majority of Muslims no doubt denounce violence. Most Muslims are peace-loving individuals who have no problems co-existing with the people of other religious convictions. Just as there are extremists in Islam, there are fundamentalists in Christianity, Judaism, Hinduism and other religions. Extremism is by no means inherent to Islam only. <br /> <br />In order to understand the root causes of fundamentalism in Islam we must look beyond the simplistic and inadequate explanations put forth by some experts. All endeavours to understand extremism without taking into account the following factors will ultimately prove futile: imperialism, the implications of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, the U.S. support for autocratic regimes in the Middle East and the extremely flawed U.S. foreign policy. We may pretend that these do not matter but we keep ignoring this truth at our own peril. As Mr. Esposito so eloquently argues in The Unholy War, the Islamic fundamentalists almost always talk about the Israeli/Palestinian conflict and other injustices in the Middle East when giving statements to foreign journalists. We must acknowledge the root causes of their grievances in order to be able to explain this phenomenon. Mr. Spencer disagrees; he believes that fundamentalists find support for their egregious atrocities in Quaran. In my opinion, Mr. Spencer's book offers a simplistic, myopic and sometimes a highly prejudiced view of Islam. Unfortunately, many reviewers here enjoy his book. If you already hold a stereotypical and prejudiced view of Islam then this book will only reinforce your prejudices. If on the other hand you wish to delve deeper to gain a richer and more complex understanding of extremism I recommend books by John Esposito, Karen Armstrong, Bruce Lawrence and Edward Said.	2005-08-23
US	36800531	R3BS2MJP6S3OR6	0140286810	562844060	Blood and Vengeance: One Family's Story of the War in Bosnia	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A powerful and disturbing account of the war in Bosnia!	Widely acknowledged as one of the best books on the war in Bosnia, Sudetic's book offers a unique insight into the horrors of the Bosnian war. What is it then that separates Sudetic's book from the other books on the war in Bosnia? First, it is extraordinarily well written and highly interesting from the very beginning to the end. It captured my attention from the very moment I started reading it. Even though this book contains almost 400 pages it never becomes boring.     The first section of the book contains a brief yet momentous introduction of the history of Bosnia. It helps explain the root causes of the war in Bosnia, an aspect that will prove invaluable to novice readers on the subject matter. Sudetic then allows the reader to follow one Bosnian family (the Celik family) throughout the entire Bosnian war. As a reader, one inadvertently becomes part of the Celik family; one empathizes with them and shares their deepest emotions and concerns. When the war in Bosnia began, the Celik family fled from their village of Kusupovici to Srebrenica. Srebrenica was by then already under siege and about 40,000 people from the neighbouring villages sought shelter in this little eastern town. Srebrenica was constantly shelled by Bosnian Serb army and only a few U.N. convoys were allowed to enter Srebrenica in order to deliver food and medical supplies to its approximately 40,000 refugees. For three long years Srebrenica's people were isolated from the rest of the world, they had little food, no clean water, electricity and virtually no medical supplies. Diseases and infections were commonplace. People were dying from hunger daily.     Sudetic brilliantly describes the experiences of the Celik's family throughout the war. Will all members of the Celik family manage to survive the war and how will this gruesome war affect their future? What will happen to Paja, Huso, Hiba and Sanela? As a reader, one gets to know their deepest fears, concerns and desires. It is virtually impossible to remain indifferent to their plights when reading the book. Sudetic's book thus stands out from the other literature on the war in Bosnia because it is personal. It is not simply another book about Bosnian people in general, not that there is anything wrong with that. However if you follow one particular family for an extensive period of time you become one with them. You experience their suffering as well as their joy.     As is well known, Srebrenica fell on July 12, 1995 after three years of Serb occupation. What followed in the ensuing days constituted one of the most severe human rights abuses in Europe since World War II. In only a matter of days, Bosnian Serb forces summarily executed approximately 8000 Muslims, one of whom was my grandfather. I remember that day perfectly well and it was one of the worst days of my life. In my opinion, Sudetic provides one of the most detailed accounts of the Srebrenica massacre. Days leading to the massacre are also described in detail. While 8000 Muslims were being slaughtered before the eyes of the entire international community, the U.N. did nothing to stop the bloodshed despite the fact that Srebrenica had been designated a \\"safe area\\". In point of fact, the U.N. was completely indifferent to the plight of these people. Sudetic explains this well and also provides numerous documents that corroborate this fact. The U.N. was in fact authorized to order air strikes against Bosnian Serb army but deliberately chose not to do that because they did not want to \\"exacerbate\\" the conflict. Instead, they gave Serbs the green light to kill 8000 Muslims and to expel all women and children. The Muslims who were trying to escape from Srebrenica to Tuzla were frequently ambushed by Bosnian Serb army; many of them never made it to Tuzla.     Sudetic further provides a comprehensive account of the atrocities that took place in Srebrenica after the town was overrun by Bosnian Serb army. Muslim men were taken to different locations to be shot. Those who survived have been able to testify about these heinous atrocities. Hurem Suljic had been taken to a meadow along with other Muslim men. Bosnian Serb army then opened fire and one man fell on Suljic. Suljic remained there motionless until the executioners left the site. Another man had also survived the massacre and together the two men managed to escape. Hurem Suljic later testified that the Muslim prisoners were tortured; some had their throats slashed while others were hit on their heads by an axe or a hammer.     Sudetic's book thus gives us a comprehensive and well researched account of the Bosnian war. I have one problem with this book though and that is a flawed and sometimes biased analysis of Bosnian Muslims. When describing Bosnian Muslims, Sudetic frequently relies on the life of the Muslims who lived in the countryside. Sudetic sometimes wrongly assumes that this way of life is characteristic of the entire Islamic community throughout Bosnia. For example, the Muslims who lived in the countryside frequently dressed in \\"dimije\\" (traditional clothing for Muslim women of the countryside) and they sometimes covered their heads. One gets the impression that Bosnian Muslims are a primitive people. However, for the overwhelming majority of the urban Muslims this way of life was obsolete and atavistic. Most Muslim women who lived in urban societies dressed and behaved as any contemporary woman of the West. Furthermore, according to one of the foremost experts on the history of Bosnia Noel Malcolm, Bosnian Muslims were among the most secularized Muslims in the world. Therefore, one must conclude that Sudetic's description of Bosnian Muslims is misleading and inadequate.     Aside from this minor shortcoming, this is irrefutably the best book about the war in Bosnia. It is an extraordinarily well written account of the Srebrenica massacre. There are many brilliant books about the war in Bosnia but Sudetic's book stands out from the rest forthe following reason: it involves the reader in the story in a way you never thought possible. It makes you angry, happy, sad, agitated and devoid of hope at the same time.     A masterpiece!	2005-08-18
US	36800531	R2CWLC2ZGJC21W	0965691624	976884615	NATO in the Balkans: Voices of Opposition	Books	1	3	12	N	N	Deeply flawed and misleading	Ask yourself the following question: if you were trapped in Srebrenica for three years while under constant bombardment with only one meal per day, with no clean water and electricity, would you have opposed a NATO intervention? Be honest!<br /><br />Now ask yourself this: when do negotiations fail? When must we resort to force to end any given conflict? For three years, Western diplomats were trying to put an end to the carnage in Bosnia but to no avail. After all, why negotiate with notorious war criminals such as Mladic, Karadzic and the one who masterminded everything: Milosevic? Mladic and Karadzic who are held most accountable for the gruesome massacre of 8000 Bosniaks in Srebrenica refused to negotiate. Their sole objective was to ethnically cleanse Bosnia in order to create a \\"Greater Serbia\\".<br /><br />Natasha Kandic, a human rights activist from Serbia, recently released a videotape of an abhorrent execution of six Muslim men from Srebrenica. The videotape shows how the Serb soldiers brutally execute six powerless and defenseless men. Before they shoot them point-blank, they however use slurs such as \\"Turks\\" and joke about who they are going to kill first. This horrific  footage was so appalling that I could not sleep the first day. Only a monster can commit such an enormity. Even animals do not torture their prey.<br /><br />My grandmother spent three years in Srebrenica and she said that those were the worst years of her life. For three long years, Srebrenica was under siege. After three years of the Serb occupation, Srebrenica fell on 11 July 1995. What happened in the ensuing days constituted one of the worst massacres in Europe since World War II. 8000 civilians were killed within a few days, one of whom was my grandfather. If the NATO had intervened, then these people would have been saved. This is irrefutable!<br /><br />Bosnia was not enough for the Serbs. The next target was to conquer Kosovo and to expel the Albanian population. In Kosovo, Milosevic's troops commited heinous war crimes and expelled many Kosovars. To achieve hegemony, the Serbs would stop at nothing. Diplomacy clearly failed here, what was needed was a military intervention. This was the only way to end the Serbian aggression since Serbia was militarily superior to all the neighboring countries. There was no alternative.<br /><br />Left revisionists suggest that the NATO intervention merely exacerbated the conflict. This is not true, all we know for sure is that it stopped it. What could we have done instead? Continue negotiating with Milosevic while his troops exterminate every single Kosovar? Once again, ask yourself this question: for how long must we negotiate before we conclude that negotiations are futile? How many people have to die before we decide that this is the wrong way to solve the conflict? This polemic against the NATO intervention thus grossly fails. More important, it fails to explain what was the alternative to a military intervention.osovo, Milosevic's troops commited heinous war crimes and expelled many Kosovars. To achieve hegemony, the Serbs would stop at nothing. Diplomacy clearly failed here, what was needed was a military intervention. This was the only way to end the Serbian aggression since Serbia was militarily superior to all the neighboring countries. There was no alternative.  <br /> <br />Left revisionists suggest that the NATO intervention merely exacerbated the conflict. This is not true, all we know for sure is that it stopped it. What could we have done instead? Continue negotiating with Milosevic while his troops exterminate every single Kosovar? Once again, ask yourself this question: for how long must we negotiate before we conclude that negotiations are futile? How many people have to die before we decide that this is the wrong way to solve the conflict? This polemic against the NATO intervention thus grossly fails. More important, it fails to explain what was the alternative to a military intervention.	2005-07-21
US	36800531	R28KC8NCXHW42C	074531631X	103678459	Degraded Capability: The Media and the Kosovo Crisis	Books	1	8	27	N	N	Left revisionism at its worst!	Those who forget the past are condemned to repeat it!   <br /> <br /> <br />The people of Serbia know what happened in Bosnia and Kosovo. They know that genocide occurred and that the Muslims of Bosnia and Kosovo were the primary victims. I wonder why Mr. Hammond fails to explain why Serbia refuses to extradite Karadzic and Mladic? Why are they refusing to admit the truth about the gruesome massacre in Srebrenica? Is the whole world conspiring against the Serbian people and more important is there a covert Western campaign to dehumanize the Serbian people? Since Mr. Hammond refuses to condemn the Serbian atrocities, the present reviewer will attempt to bring clarity as to why Serbia keeps providing shelter for notorious war criminals, such as Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic.  <br /> <br />Even though he has been accused of committing egregious atrocities in Bosnia, Mladic is still hiding in Serbia under the protection of the Serbian authorities. Considered a national hero in Serbia, Mladic commands great respect and admiration. How does one explain the non-compliance of the Serbian authorities to accommodate the international community?  <br /> <br />According to some estimates, more than 50% of the Serbian population still believes that there was no massacre in Srebrenica. The figure is probably much higher among the Bosnian Serb population. I recently watched a debate on Serbian TV about Mladic's role in the Srebrenica massacre. The central question of the debate was whether or not the massacre in Srebrenica had actually taken place. One participant remarked that there had been no massacre in Srebrenica and that Mladic has always been a Serbian hero. When asked why she believed in Mladic's innocence and why she held him in such high regard, she replied that Mladic had been killing \\"bloody Turks\\" in Srebrenica. She seemed completely oblivious to the fact that more than six hundred years have passed since the Turkish presence in the Balkans. In order to understandthe root causes of the Serbian nationalism we will have to return to year 1389. It was in this year that the infamous battle between the Turks and the Serbs took place in Kosovo, the outcome of which had come to play a pivotal role in the rise of the Serbian nationalism. Considered God by many Serbs, Prince Lazar's death probably still constitutes the most significant event in the Serbian history. Islam has ever since been viewed as Serbia's primary enemy in spite of the fact that more than six centuries have passed since Lazar's death.  <br />  <br />This enormous hatred of the Turks was easily transferred onto the Muslims of Bosnia and Kosovo, even though their only common denominator was Islam. In point of fact, many Serbs still make no distinction between the Turks and the Bosnian or Kosovo's Muslims. In contemporary Serbian literature, Muslims are frequently portrayed as backward, uncivilized and belligerent savages, for corroboration see for example books by Vuk Draskovic and Njegos. Paradoxically, despite their grossly distorted let alone parochial views of Islam, Draskovic and Njegos have many readers in Serbia. What better way to mislead the public than to have \\"experts\\" like the notorious Serbian ultra-nationalist Draskovic spread vicious anti-Islamic propaganda? Once these so called experts had managed to create a sense of \\"victimization\\" in the Serbian people, justifying a war to defend the Serbian people from the \\"Islamic threat\\" and the \\"Albanian nationalism\\" was easy. Of course, there were no such threats, if anything, the situation was reversed. The Albanians in Kosovo had been suffering from the Serbian repression for years. The Muslims of Bosnia were and still are the most secularized Muslims in the world so all talk of the Islamic fundamentalism in Bosnia has always been nonsensical and completely groundless. For a thorough analysis of Islam in Bosnia see Noel Malcolm's Bosnia a Short History. Thus, it is clear that the Serbian nationalism has always been fuelled by myths (see Michael Sells's brilliantly researched The Bridge Betrayed for a comprehensive analysis of the root causes of the Serbian nationalism).  <br /> <br />Thus, the principal reason Serbia refuses to turn over Ratko Mladic to the War Tribunal in The Hague is the ancient Serbian dream of a \\"Greater Serbia\\". Many Serbs believe that Mladic was fighting for a creation of the \\"Greater Serbia\\" and for that reason they tend to deny or at best downplay his atrocities. I think that this also explains the Serbian unwillingness to admit the truth about the Srebrenica massacre. Acknowledging the truth about Mladic's role in Srebrenica massacre would have severe repercussions for Serbia. First, the Serbian people would finally realize that their government had been deceiving them all the time about the war in Bosnia and Kosovo. More important, they would learn that the Serbs were not the victims as their government had been telling them from the very beginning of the war in Bosnia and the subsequent Serbian aggression in Kosovo.  <br /> <br />Hammond's central thesis is that the NATO's intervention in Kosovo only exacerbated the conflict. What Hammond however fails to explain is what was the alternative to a military intervention. To keep negotiating with Milosevic until his troops exterminate all Albanians? For three years the Western diplomats had been trying to negotiate an end to the war in Bosnia but to no avail. Approximately 300,000 people had to die because the international community refused to intervene in Bosnia. Had the NATO intervened immediately many innocent lives would have been saved. This is irrefutable!  <br /> <br />Sometimes when there is no peaceful resolution in sight we must fight fire with fire! When someone is defenseless and powerless  <br />(as the people of Bosnia and Kosovo were) then we are all obliged to put an end to their suffering, be it by diplomacy or by force.  <br /> <br />Another aspect clearly neglected by Hammond, Diana Johnstone, Christian Parenti and other left revisionists is the incontrovertible fact that the Serbs were heavily armed while the Muslims of Bosnia and Kosovo lacked sophisticated weaponry. Had the international community lifted the arms embargo then they would not have needed to intervene.  <br /> <br />Hammond's book thus provides an inaccurate and flawed analysis of the war in Kosovo. Based on the assumption that the NATO's intervention merely escalated the atrocities, this book offers a grossly distorted view of the war in Kosovo.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-07-06
US	36800531	R2UHAMOC0SPM0B	1859842690	503294468	Masters of the Universe: NATO's Balkan Crusade	Books	1	10	31	N	N	Absurd revisionism	This book questions the real U.S. motives in the Balkans. Its central question is why did the NATO intervene in Bosnia and Kosovo. Despite the fact that this is a legitimate question, this book grossly fails to provide honest answers. Every author of this book (all left intellectuals) seems to be oblivious to the following indisputable facts:  <br /> <br />1. The war in Bosnia was an aggression, NOT a civil war. Therefore, the NATO intervention against Serbia was both warranted and justifiable.  <br /> <br />2. Serbia attacked Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and ultimately Kosovo in order to create a \\"Greater Serbia\\" and ensure Serbian hegemony.  <br /> <br />3. We are all obliged to act whenever someone is defenseless and powerless. The people of Bosnia and Kosovo were facing a much more powerful aggressor. How do you fight someone who is armed to the teeth?  <br /> <br />4. The international community refused to rescind the arms embargo and also at first refused to intervene in Bosnia and Kosovo. NATO should have intervened sooner and the bloodshed in Bosnia could have been prevented. 300000 people had to die before the NATO decided to put an end to the Serbian aggression.  <br /> <br />5. What was the alternative to military intervention? To allow Milosevic to exterminate all non-Serbs and realize his dream of a \\"Greater Serbia\\"? Why negotiate with a war criminal?  <br /> <br />6. The NATO intervention in Kosovo did not exacerbate the situation on the ground. Even if it did, it was only a temporary escalation of the conflict. Perhaps we should have done what these left intellectuals suggest: continue negotiating with the tyrant (Milosevic) while his troops continue killing innocent civilians? <br /> <br />7. It is one thing to criticize the U.S. transgressions but it is a completely different thing to deny atrocities. Diana Johnstone, the notorious apologist for the Serbian atrocities, for example claims that the Serbs were the victims of the U.S./German conspiracy todestroy Yugoslavia. Johnstone denies that genocide took place in Bosnia. These assertions are so ridiculous that they warrant no serious comment.  <br /> <br /> <br />8. Even if the U.S. had an ulterior motive for intervening against Serbia I do not think that the people of Kosovo care. All that matters to them is that someone (be it the U.S. Russia or France) comes to their rescue. If attacked by a vehement assailant, would you honestly care why someone saved your life? <br /> <br />All in all, a despicable book full of vicious lies, propaganda, preposterous revisionism and factual errors. If you want to condemn the U.S. imperialism, fine with me but when you start denying atrocities I say: shame on you!	2005-06-06
US	36800531	R27RB6QIZP3CW2	1572306807	327473804	Taking Charge of Anger: How to Resolve Conflict, Sustain Relationships, and Express Yourself without Losing Control	Books	2	14	25	N	N	Flawed and lacking in depth!	Before purchasing this book I was hoping to learn something new about this powerful and potentially pernicious emotion. Admittedly, most books on anger tend to be simplistic, repetitive and lacking in depth and Nye's book is no exception. Furthermore, based solely on the cognitive theory, the majority of anger management books fail to take into account the hereditary component of anger, temperament, different personality types and last but not least childhood experiences. Cognitive theorists contend that faulty beliefs and distorted thinking constitute the root cause of depression and anger. I believe that this explanation is flawed because it cannot explain why some people become angry for no apparent reason.  <br /> <br />Why do we get angry? According to Mr. Nye, it is because we misinterpret and catastrophalize things that happen to us. We often have unrealistic expectations and once we fail to accomplish our goals we get angry. So far so good but this is hardly a revolutionary finding. Tell me something I do not know! Moreover, we get angry when someone offends us and in some way betrays our trust. We choose how we react to any given stimulus. Notice any pattern here? Allow me to give you a clue: common sense. Now, why do these situations make us lose our tempers? Nye offers no explanation, he simply claims that we must challenge and replace our distorted thoughts. People already know that they must challenge their pessimistic thinking.  <br /> <br />How do we control our anger? Nye suggests that we take charge of our lives by being optimistic and by replacing our faulty beliefs with positive and healthy ones. For instance, when someone cuts you off in traffic, do not get angry. When someone offends you do not argue with that person because that will only aggravate matters. I could not disagree more, keeping things bottled up inside is much worse. Even though anger is for the most part detrimental to your health, sometimes getting angry will help you fight injustices.  <br /> <br />Even though you will find some useful information in this book, I strongly advise against purchasing this book. If you want to pay for common sense (unfortunately as I did) then buy this book, otherwise look elsewhere.     <br />	2005-05-31
US	36800531	R13IR5MD8X4ZDZ	1859738028	307521856	Al-Qaida's Jihad in Europe: The Afghan-Bosnian Network	Books	1	28	89	N	N	Ridiculous, Preposterous and Oversimplified	First, allow me to state the obvious fact: Mr. Kohlmann seems completely oblivious to the long history of secularism in Bosnia, particularly among the Muslim population. For corroboration and a meticulous analysis of Islam in Bosnia, please see Noel Malcolm's masterpiece Bosnia. Furthermore, of all the Muslims in the world, Bosnian Muslims are irrefutably the most secularized ones. In point of fact, religion has always had a rather insignificant role in the social life of the Muslims in Bosnia. Given this incontrovertible fact, how can anyone even attempt to link the Muslims of Bosnia to the Muslims in Afghanistan?  <br /> <br />Mr. Kohlmann claims in his book that Bosnian Muslims were collaborating with the Muslims from Afghanistan in a joint effort to unleash unprecedented terror throughout the Christian world. This assertion is so absurd that it warrants no serious comment. Kohlmann bases his argument on the fact that a small number of Mujahedeens arrived in Bosnia in 1992 in order to aid Bosnian Muslims in the war. While this is true, Kohlmann simultaneously fails to mention another equally important fact, namely that many Greeks and Russians also came to Bosnia in 1992 to help Bosnian Serbs. Pertinent to the context is also the fact that the Bosnian Serbs were heavily armed whereas the Bosnian Muslims were practically powerless and defenseless. Bosnian Serbs not only received reinforcements from the neighboring Serbia, recruits from all over the world, mainly from Russia and Greece, joined their Orthodox Christian brothers in a crusade against Islam. Mr. Kohlmann simply ignores this fact because after all in his mind the Muslims do not have the right to defend themselves even though he knows that the war in Bosnia was a clear and unequivocal case of Serbian aggression.  <br /> <br />Paradoxically although unsurprisingly, one cannot find a single word in his book of the Orthodox Christian fundamentalism. Kohlmann also does not mention in his book that Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic have been hiding in Serbia for almost 10 years now despite that they are wanted for war crimes by the War Tribunal in The Hague. These notorious war criminals guilty of egregious atrocities are considered heroes in Serbia; this does not bother Kohlmann at all, nor does the fact that the Serbs committed one of the worst massacres in Europe since World War II in Srebrenica killing approximately 8000 people. Why do not these abhorrent war crimes against the Muslims infuriate Mr. Kohlmann? Why is it Kohlmann that of the six hundred mosques in Bosnia, every single one was destroyed by the Serbs between the years 1992-1995? Conversely, if the Muslims of Bosnia are such fundamentalists as you so adamantly assert, why did almost every church remain intact following the war? Why is it that when you ask the Serb population of Srebrenica what they think about the massacre of 8000 Bosnian Muslims, they simply reply: \\"I do not care, that was a long time ago\\".          <br /> <br />Thus, this book contains nothing but cunning and pernicious propaganda, the sole purpose of which is to promote hatred and vicious lies. If you want to make some money very fast, all you have to do is to write an anti-Islamic book. What is more, you do not even have to base it on facts, lies and distortions will do just fine. If you really want to learn the truth about Islam, then read books by intellectual writers such as Edward Said, John Esposito, Karen Armstrong and Bruce Lawrence.  <br /> <br />I really hope that people will one day be able to judge others not by their race and religion but solely by the content of their character. Will that day ever come?      <br />	2005-05-24
US	36800531	R2D3W7ZST12JTK	0375709320	831198490	Verbal Advantage: 10 Steps to a Powerful Vocabulary	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Superior way of improving vocabulary!	Granted, there are many well written vocabulary-enhancing books but the Verbal Advantage must be singled out as a true masterpiece. What is it that makes this book superior to other similar books? First, it is extremely well structured; it consists of several sections all of which contain the words that need to be learned and a lucid explanation of every word. Thus, its structure not only facilitates comprehension of the target word but also makes sure that you remember the word. What is more, Harrington also teaches you synonyms.     <br /> <br />Each section is followed by a brief test that measures your progress. This is particularly important since these tests help you focus on the more difficult words.  <br /> <br />If one of your goals in life is to improve your communicative skills then you should purchase this book. Never before had I been able to learn so many words in such a short period of time and if I can so can you. If I have not been able to convince you thus far to acquire this book, then read on.  <br /> <br />Studies have demonstrated that people with superior vocabularies frequently hold prominent and respectable jobs. Whether we like it or not, individuals with sophisticated vocabularies command greater respect and admiration. How people perceive us is in part related to the size of our vocabulary. Erudite people usually have large vocabularies.  <br /> <br />How well you do on the job interview may have much more to do with the size of your vocabulary than one might think. Leaving a good first impression is highly momentous. This is where the Verbal Advantage comes in. It will help you achieve greater success in all areas of life.  <br /> <br />This is irrefutably the most efficient method of expanding your vocabulary.  <br /> <br />Highly recommended! <br /> <br />Buy now!	2005-05-02
US	36800531	RKZ7UN3XXYBG9	0688128165	978667155	Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion	Books	5	30	32	N	N	This book will save you a lot of money!	Cialdini offers in this book a comprehensive account of marketing strategies frequently employed to induce compliance from prospective customers. Have you ever wondered why we sometimes buy things we do not even need? Cialdini argues that given the right circumstances most people can be persuaded and deceived. Learn how salesmen maximize their profits by offering expensive products first. Learn how the principle of perceptual contrast works against prospective customers. More importantly, why are we more inclined to purchase something if we are first offered a highly expensive product followed by a less expensive one?  <br /> <br />Second, did you know that unexpected gifts from strangers can turn out to be nothing but highly elaborate and cunning psychological tricks? Thus, receiving a gift, as harmless as it first may appear, may have adverse consequences. Remember, most strangers have ulterior motives and therefore think twice before you accept a gift. Salesmen know too well that it is crucial to create a sense of indebtedness in a prospective customer. For example, send someone a gift if you want to induce subsequent compliance from him. It is imperative that the subject views it as a gift and not some product you are trying to sell. Have you ever wondered why charity organizations first send a gift and then ask you to donate money for a good cause? People are more inclined to comply or to do as you want them to if they feel indebted to you. Note that giving money to charity is a noble thing.  <br /> <br />Third, did you know that people tend to act in accordance with their self-image? Now, you are probably thinking why I mention this seemingly trivial fact. Well, this simple fact plays a pivotal role when it comes to persuading people to act in one way or another. If my friends consider me a generous person then I will do anything to remain generous in their eyes. Salesmen know this and unless you know how to resist, they will manipulate you. Cialdini providesnumerous examples that will open your eyes and make you aware of these sophisticated psychological tricks. Thus, the desire to be consistent with your self-image can be potentially detrimental.  <br /> <br />Even though much of what is accounted for in this book constitutes common sense, there is still plenty of useful information here. Every finding in this book is supported by empirical evidence. This is what makes Cialdini's book far superior to other similar books. Unlike other unrealistic and sensationalistic books that purport to teach you how to persuade anyone to your way of thinking, Cialdini's book teaches you to be more assertive and careful. This book has taught me more about the psychological aspect of persuasion than all the other books combined. Cialdini writes extraordinarily well and assumes no prior knowledge in a reader; to ascertain comprehension in the reader, Cialdini provides countless examples of real-life situations.  <br /> <br />To sum up, this is what I have learned after reading Cialdini's book: <br />- I no longer buy things I do not need, <br />- I have become much more assertive, <br />- I am aware of many of the insidious marketing strategies, <br />- I never accept gifts from strangers, <br />- I have learned to negotiate a reasonable price in any given situation.   <br /> <br />Highly recommended!  <br />	2005-03-17
US	36800531	R1OHU8PLK2N41L	0007157991	707138887	Collins Cobuild Advanced Learners English Dictionary	Books	5	7	8	N	N	If you need only one dictionary...	This is incontrovertibly the most comprehensive dictionary available. If you contemplate buying a dictionary, then make sure you acquire this one. It is extraordinarily well structured and the definitions are lucid. I still have not encountered an unfamiliar word that was not found in this dictionary. The best of all, once you have located the target word, it is explained so that even those with very little prior knowledge of the English language can comprehend its meaning. It is this particular feature of this dictionary that makes it far superior to Oxford's and Cambridge's dictionaries. You are probably wondering if this dictionary has any drawbacks and I can honestly say that it does not. It is flawless. Buy it!	2005-03-17
US	36800531	RCSELZYPBYNG1	0132638495	551499216	Psycho Cybernetics 2000	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Simplistic, Repetitive and Tedious!	This book contains sound advice and concrete steps that, if followed properly, will help enhance and improve your self-image. According to the founder of Psycho-Cybernetics, Maltz Maxwell, the concept of self-image is irrefutably the most important aspect of our lives; once we have gained a positive self-image we will feel much better both mentally and physically. Thus, self-image is crucial to maintaining mental and physical health. Maxwell goes even farther holding that whether or not we succeed in our professional life depends to a great extent on how we view ourselves. Having a positive self-image makes it much easier to achieve our goals. One way to improve our self-image is to revise our thinking and to stop focusing on negative events. Also, the way we think about the aversive events in our life must change, it is imperative that we do not dwell on them. Instead of allowing these events to impair our self-image, we should act on them by actively finding adequate solutions. More importantly, the events to which we have no immediate solutions or over which we have no control should be completely ignored. Another important point made in this book is that we can control our emotional responses and this is an extremely powerful tool. Subsequently, we can decide how we want to feel or what we wish to think, according to Maltz.<br /><br />The basic principle of Psycho-Cybernetics is actually quite simple: what you think in your conscious mind eventually becomes automatized in your subconscious mind. This means that if you decide that you believe in yourself and that you control your own life, these beliefs will soon be stored in your subconscious mind. An analogy is appropriate here: when learning to drive a car, initially you have to coordinate a number of different steps. As practice makes perfect, gradually these steps become automatized and you will no longer need to consciously monitor every step in order to drive. This is a crucial process because once your positive self-image becomes an inherent part of your subconscious mind then the process will be complete.<br /><br />While this book is interesting and many techniques found in it are useful, there are shortcomings. First, it is common sense that positive self-esteem and self-image play a pivotal role in every individual's life. We all know that optimistic thinking promotes not only mental but also physical health. Moreover, techniques outlined in this book do not constitute anything new or revolutionary; people already know that they must challange their false beliefs and replace them with new ones. Like all other self-help books, even this one tends to be simplistic, repetitive and occasionally tedious.<br /><br />Psychologists have long known that human behavior is dynamic, unpredictable and extremely complex. To explain why we think the way we do in one book is impossible. Most authors of self-help books tend to downplay the significance of highly important factors such as childhood in shaping an individual's personality. Even those vaguely familiar with psychology know that a cognitive theory (the one on which all self-help books are based) has serious drawbacks. Thus, in order to fully understand how self-esteem works we must take an integrated approach, the one involving the findings of cognitive, behaviorist, psycho-analytical and biological theories. Failure to interweave these theories will inevitably result in simplistic and flawed analyses. Simply telling someone to be optimistic will prove insufficient in the long run.<br /><br />Popular psychology, I like to call it sensationalist, frequently promises fast results with no or little effort but almost always offers seriously flawed and superficial analyses. One final comment: whenever you come across a title of the book that sounds too good to be true, then skip it. Despite its oversimplified analysis, Psycho-Cybernetics does however provide an insight into the immense importance of self-esteem/self-imagein every person's life. Please note that it is not my intent to discourage you from purchasing this book. On the contrary, it is always best to read it and decide for yourself.in every person's life. Please note that it is not my intent to discourage you from purchasing this book. On the contrary, it is always best to read it and decide for yourself.	2005-03-07
US	36800531	R2PPJOXPV5ACLO	0140262636	853877223	Yugoslavia: Death of a Nation	Books	5	30	49	N	N	A brilliant analysis of the breakup of Yugoslavia	Silber and Little offer in this book irrefutably the most exhaustive and lucid account of the breakup of Yugoslavia and the war in Bosnia. Unilke other books on the same subject, this book sheds light on key events in a chronological order, facilitating comprehension and the retrieval of target facts. Readers with no or fairly little knowledge of the subject will probably find the structure of this book very appealing.  <br /> <br />Silber and Little argue that the key to understanding why Yugoslavia collapsed is Milosevic coming to power and the subsequent rise of the Serbian nationalism. Cunning and manipulative, Milosevic stabbed the then President of Serbia Stambolic in the back and took over as President of Serbia. Through sophisticated propaganda, Milosevic was able to manipulate and control the Serbian people. He had managed to convince his people that they were second-class citizens facing extermination unless they all united and pursued the sacred Serbian goal of creating a \\"Greater Serbia\\". Milosevic claimed that the Serbs in Kosovo were living under the Albanian rule. Of course nothing could be farther from the truth, if anything the situation was quite the opposite. The Albanians in Kosovo were oppressed but Milosevic aware that the Serbs had always considered Kosovo a part of Serbia knew the enormous importance of Kosovo for his people. Determined to \\"save\\" the Serbian people from \\"extermination\\", Milosevic asserted that the creation of a \\"Greater Serbia\\" would be his primary objective. This pursue of the greater Serbian ideology led to the disintegration of Yugoslavia; Serbia first attacked Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and ultimately Kosovo. <br /> <br />Silber and Little completely shatter the myth that the war in Bosnia was a civil war. Instead they provide compelling and incontrovertible evidence that the war was a Serbian aggression. The presence of the JNA, the former federal Yugoslav army in Bosnia, which sided with Bosnian Serbs throughout the Bosnian war corroborates their assertion that the war in Bosnia was the Serbian aggression. Furthermore, Silber and Little give a thorough account of the atrocities that were committed in Bosnia. For instance, a detailed scrutiny of the unfathomable torture in detention camps at Omarska, Trnopolje, Keraterm and Omaca is offered. Silber and Little also brilliantly analyze the gruesome massacre in Srebrenica, the worst massacre in Europe since World War II.  <br /> <br />People seeking to understand the root causes of the breakup of Yugoslavia and the subsequent devestation of the country are strongly advised to read this masterpiece. In my opinion, it is undeniably one of the best written books on the subject. It is also without a doubt the most objective one. The fact that it is extremely well structured and well written make it a must. Buy it!	2004-11-15
US	36800531	R7VQRM8FLOOFA	0814715346	718232830	This Time We Knew: Western Responses to Genocide in Bosnia	Books	5	7	10	N	N	An intellectual tour de force!	Cushman and Mestrovic demonstrate without a doubt that the war in Bosnia was a genocide. They provide unequivocal proof and overwhelming evidence that the war in Bosnia was not a civil war but a clear case of a Serbian aggression. This book offers an exhaustive account of the most egregious crimes committed in Europe since World War II. By arguing that the West not only failed to protect the Bosnian Muslims but also denied them the right to defend themselves by imposing the weapon embargo, Cushman and Mestrovic masterfully analyze the West's inability to put an end to the bloodshed. Thus, by imposing the weapon embargo, the West in effect denied the Bosnian Muslims the right to defend themselves. Facing an extremely powerful Serbian aggressor, the Bosnian Muslims were practically powerless and defenseless. Furthermore, this book shatters once and for all the myth of collective guilt, i.e. the equal guilt of all three sides in Bosnia. As Mestrovic and Cushman correctly point out, only the Serbs in Bosnia committed systematic war crimes including rapes and torture in an attempt to cleanse the area of all non-Serbs and create a \\"Greater Serbia\\". The evidence in support of these claims is abundant and has been extremely well documented by many fact-finding organizations including the Human Rights Watch, the Amnesty International, the War Tribunal in the Hague etc. One of the most gruesome massacres in Europe since World War II took place in Srebrenica. Led by the notorious war criminal Ratko Mladic, the Serb forces killed approximately 10,000 Muslims, one of which was my grandfather. My grandmother survived the massacre and was able to give a detailed account of the true scenes from hell. Following their own official investigation into the events in Srebrenica, Bosnian Serb officials just recently acknowledged that they were responsible for the massacre. It took them eight years to issue an official apology. As a result of the Serbian aggression, approximately 250,000 people were killed and many expelled from their homes.  <br />In conclusion, this book provides a meticulously researched account of the most abhorrent crimes in Europe since World War II. It offers compelling evidence and countless examples that the war in Bosnia was a genocide. It completely destroys the myth that the war in Bosnia was a civil war. Strongly recommended!	2004-10-07
US	36800531	RQF84JDKHTBAO	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	16	23	N	N	An intellectual tour de force	By providing countless examples of unilateral U.S. interventions throughout the world, from Vietnam to Iraq, Chomsky is able to demonstrate without a doubt that the U.S. imperial strategy poses a grave threat to international peace. Chomsky brilliantly analyzes U.S. foreign policy and gives unequivocal proof that the U.S. government displays a flagrant disregard for human rights and international law. Driven primarily by strategic and economic interests, the U.S. foreign policy makers appear completely indifferent to human suffering. U.S. officials have always given the impression that their top priority is human rights. Furthermore, U.S. has always urged and in many cases coerced other states to abide by international law. Recent as well as past events however strongly indicate that the U.S. government does not abide by international law. For example, not many people know that the U.S. was charged with state terrorism against Nicaragua by International Court in the Hague. Arrogantly, the U.S. government merely dismissed these charges, after all international law does not apply to the U.S. Only U.S. may violate international law with impunity. Similarly, the U.S. invasion of Grenada was severely criticized by the internatonal community but to no avail. Before invading Iraq, the U.S. asserted that its motive had been to remove Saddam from power because of his capability to produce weapons of mass destruction. Thus, this was a preemptive strike. Since the U.N. inspectors were unable to find any weapons of mass destruction, the U.S. government had to alter their motive. Now, their motive was to install a democratic regime in Iraq, that is a regime which will safeguard the U.S. interests in Iraq and not the interests of Iraqi people. Nonetheless, U.S. hypocrisy is irrefutably best evident when it comes to Israel. U.S. has systematically and deliberately vetoed every single U.N. resolution calling for a condemnation of Israeli human rights violations. Even though it is no secret that Israel has nuclear weapons, no U.N. inspectors have yet been permitted to enter Israel. Why are no sanctions imposed on Israel for non-compliance? Why is Israel not being punished for its refusal to dismantle the settlements on occupied territories? Ariel Sharon is a terrorist as much as any suicide bomber becuase he treats the Palestinians as if though they were cattle and not human beings. I recently saw a documentary about the Palestinians living in the occupied areas. Every day, they have to pass the so called check points on their way to work, relatives and home. Israeli soldiers treat them not like decent human beings but rather as monsters. Old people, women and even children are daily subjected to humiliation and degradation. If human rights are indeed its top priority, why does not the U.S. government punish Israel for its countless violations of human rights? When Arabs commit atrocities, they are immediately punished but when Israel does the same, they recieve 100 billion dollar aid from the U.S. Does the U.S. care about human rights? You be the judge!	2004-08-10
US	36800531	R2GWTXMLQSPCWY	1590080009	786309475	Silent No More: Confronting America's False Images of Islam	Books	5	40	52	N	N	Extremely important!	The importance of this book cannot be overstressed. Nowadays, when distorted and inaccurate images of Islam so strongly pervade the West, this highly momentous contribution provides a valuable antidote to islamophobia. Why is it that when mainstream media describe Islam, they only use the word in conjunction with some of the following nouns: fundamentalism, terrorism or extremism? Why do they focus only on certain minority groups within Islam that by no means are representative of the entire Islamic community. There is and there always will be extremism in Christianity, Judaism and Islam but as it stands today, the entire focus is on Islam. Why has no one spoken of Orthodox Christian fundamentalism when Bosnian Serbs were committing abhorrent crimes against Bosnian Muslims in Bosnia?  Bosnian Serbs destroyed every single mosque (approximately 600 in Serb-controlled areas) while almost every church remained intact in the areas controlled by Bosnian Muslims.  Almost 90% of Bosnian Muslims have been expelled from Republika Srpska while many Serbs still live in Sarajevo, Tuzla etc. In 1995, Bosnian Serb forces committed one of the worst massacres in Europe since World War II killing approximately 9,000 Muslims in Serbrenica.  Many Muslims report being called &quot;bloody Turks&quot; by Serb soldiers even though all such links are preposterous let alone completely groundless. What connection can there possibly be between Bosnian Muslims and today's Turks? None! If these acts are not indicative of Orthodox Christian fundamentalism then I do not know what is. Before the war in Bosnia began, Serb intellectuals frequently portrayed Muslims as intractable fundamentalists who belonged in the Middle East. Islam was and still is considered by the majority of Serbs an abberation. Even the recipient of the Nobel Prize, Ivo Andric, described Muslims in his book The Bridge on the Drina as atavistic people whose views were reactionary and completely incompatible with those of the Westerners. Andric also asserted in his book that Bosnian Muslims in fact were treacherous and cunning converts who betrayed their Christian brothers. Another highly influential writer of Serbia, Vuk Draskovic, urged the Serbs to annihilate all Bosnian Muslims as they allegedly posed a threat to &quot;Greater Serbia&quot;. Similar views are constantly voiced through Serbia. During the course of the Bosnian war, Russians and Greeks never condemned Serb atrocities in Bosnia and they sought to prevent a military intervention in Bosnia against their Orthodox Christian brothers.  Once again, a clear and unequivocal  example of Orthodox Christian fundamentalism and yet no mention of this fact in mass media. Secularized, Bosnian Muslims were and still are much less religious than their Serb and Croat counterparts. Even though Serb nationalism has been extremely well documented by many eminent Western scholars, none has shed light on Orthodox Christian fundamentalism. Similarly, there is no discussion of Jewish extremism in the Western media in spite of the flagrant Israeli violations of human rights. When Isrealis kill the Palestinians then it is in self-defence but when the Palestinians kill Israelis then it is a clear act of terrorism.  When Israelis assassinate civilians who happen to be in the vincinity of the so called terrorists then it is collateral damage.  The abominable acts perpetrated by the Israelis are always somehow justified in the corporate media, the opposite is never true of the deeds committed by the Palestinians. Thus, the corporate media rarely if ever account for Christian or Jewish extremism. Furthermore, in a study conducted by the Wall Streed journal, prominent Arab Americans were asked what they thought fuelled the Arab hatred for the American government. The answer was unanimous: UNCONDITIONAL U.S. SUPPORT FOR ISRAEL. In order to be able to obliterate terrorism we have to examine its roots. Given the results of this study, it should not be so difficult or is it? Highly recommended!!	2004-07-15
US	36800531	R3DIH7955JP27O	158367084X	549734764	Fools' Crusade: Yugoslavia, Nato, and Western Delusions	Books	1	19	87	N	N	Orthodox Christian Fundamentalism	Johnstone asserts in her book that the massacre in Srebrenica never occurred. According to Johnstone, there is no evidence of a massacre in Srebrenica in which approximately 8,000 Bosnian Muslims were slaughtered in one of the worst massacres in Europe since World War II. According to BBC News:\\" an official Bosnian Serb investigation into the Srebrenica events of July 1995 has found that several thousand Muslims were murdered by local Serb forces. It is the first time the Bosnian Serb authorities have admitted the killings which The Hague war crimes tribunal has declared an act of genocide\\". (...)	2004-07-11
US	36800531	R3GPD5C3H5T2NO	0231126670	973472217	The New Crusades: Constructing the Muslim Enemy	Books	5	34	49	N	N	An impressive achievement	Distinguished intellectuals offer in this extremely important not to mention timely book a much needed analysis of islamophobia and its lingering implications for international peace and security. These leading political commentators explain why hatred towards Islam still pervades Western societies. Nowhere is overgeneralization so evident as when it comes to Islam. Muslims are frequently portrayed by mass media as intransigent extremists whose values are completely incompatible with those of the westerners. One of those who strongly assert that Islam poses a grave threat to the West is Harvard Professor Samuel Huntington, presumably best known for his &quot;Clash of Civilizations&quot; thesis. Huntington suggests in his book that a peaceful co-existence between the West and the Arab world is an impossibility. By describing Muslims as a homogenous entity, Huntington's analysis becomes seriously flawed because he fails to take into account a number of important factors such as the fact that there are over 1 billion Muslims worldwide who have different cultures and speak different languages. Needless to say, failing to even consider these factors is indicative of spurious scholarship. One of the principal objectives of this book is to offer a rebuttal of Huntington's thesis. Edward Said's contribution in this book is a devestating critique of Huntington's assertions. Unfortunately, as has frequently been the case in the past, there is a tendency in the West to award writers who defame and misrepresent the true messages of Islam, as in the case of Ivo Andric who was awarded Nobel Prize for his book The Bridge on the Drina. Andric depicted Bosnian Muslims as atavistic people and treacherous converts who did not belong in Bosnia. Clearly oblivious to the fact that the majority of Bosnian Muslims were secularized individuals for whom religion played a rather insignificant role in social life, I can corroborate that from personal experience, Andric claimed that Bosnian Muslims were a serious threat to Christianity. In point of fact, Bosnian Muslims were and still are much less religious than their Serb and Croat counterparts. Paradoxically, many western experts spoke of the rise of Islamic fundamentalism in Bosnia and displayed a flagrant disregard for extremely well documented Serb nationalism and mythology which subsequently enabled the genocide of Bosnian Muslims. According to Michael Sells' and Norman Cigar's brilliant analyses, Serb mythology played a pivotal role in the extermination of Bosnian Muslims and yet no one talked of the Orthodox Christian fundamentalism and the other adjectives commonly employed for describing Muslims only. Christians who commit abhorrent crimes are rarely if ever referred to as Christian extremists but rather as lunatics in need of psychiatric care. Nonetheless, when a few extremely unstable individuals knowingly misinterpret the Quaran, they are immediately labelled religious fanatics. Note that the careless (in my view deliberate) use of the word Islam such as in the &quot;Islamic fundamentalism&quot; implicitly suggests that Islam condones terrorism and unjustifiable killing of innocent civilians. This unwarranted and unjustified use of the word Islam in similar contexts helps foster islamophobia in the West. There is and there always will be extremism on all sides but as long as we keep focusing on one side only, there will never be justice. I recommend this extremely well argued and extraordinarily well written masterpiece to all who believe that justice must apply to all. This is irrefutably one of the most important books ever published.	2004-06-24
US	36800531	R5AOKQEBGSABF	0930852400	695411256	The War on Freedom: How and Why America was Attacked, September 11, 2001	Books	5	33	36	N	N	An indispensable analysis of 9/11	This extraordinarily well written and extremely well documented book provides an invaluable account of the events leading to the September 11 attacks. Nafeez argues that the failure of U.S. intelligence and the so called SOP (standard operating procedures) is highly suspicious and bewildering. According to strict FAA regulations, should any aeroplane deviate from its course, military jets are immediately sent to intercept the given plane. From the time the plane was hi-jacked, it took approximately 50 minutes before it crashed into the Twin Towers. According to Nafeez, the time it takes to dispatch a miltary jet from any given point in the U.S. is estimated roughly 5 minutes. The fact that these standard operating procedures failed on this very day makes one wonder whether or not U.S. intelligence really made an honest effort to intercept the hi-jacked plane. Also, the U.S. intelligence received extensive forewarnings that an unprecedented attack was going to take place in mid September targetting key buildings in the U.S. These warnings were blatantly ignored and their importance was downplayed by senior U.S. officials. Displaying a flagrant disregard for these imminent threats, these senior officials clearly obstructed a thorough investigation into the relevance of the warnings, an investigation which could have averted the attacks. The evidence presented in Nafeez's book is abundant, exhaustive and irrefutable and thus should not be overlooked. However, Nafeez claims that the evidence presented in his book is by no means conclusive but it is only his thesis supported by numerous facts. Granted, many questions regarding 9/11 still remain unanswered but this book offers an indispensable insight into the events leading and following the atrocious attack. Nafeez also theorizes why so many people worldwide loathe U.S. foreign policy and not as is often incorrectly claimed by corporate madia western modernity and prosperity. A great number of people throughout the world find certain elements of U.S. foreign policy highly unjust and discriminatory. According to Nafeez, it is going to be virtually impossible to obliterate terrorism unless U.S. alters its foreign policy. This book is an intellectual tour de force and in my view irrefutably the best documented book on the subject matter. Strongly recommended reading.	2004-03-18
US	36800531	R22GTCG2SZHI1Q	0879759844	171804759	Why I Am Not a Muslim	Books	1	23	84	N	N	Preposterous and fallacious	A mere glance at the title of this book should suffice to discourage serious and intellectual readers looking for a meticulous and unbiased analysis of Islam. Instead of providing his readers with an elaborate and objective account of the Islamic faith, Warraq deliberately focuses on the followers of Islam. Needless to say, it is imperative that we differentiate between religion per se and its adherents. Even those vaguely familiar with Islam know that Islam teaches piety, understanding, tolerance and plurality. Granted, there are many self-proclaimed Muslims who purposely distort Islam so that it is congruent with their subjective views. Yet, these individuals are not Muslims as they refuse to adopt the true teachings of the Quaran. Today, mainstream media knowingly associate terrorism with Islam even though no such link exists. On the contrary, Islam strongly prohibits premeditated murder and unprovoked violence. In point of fact, murder is justifiable only in self-defence. That this highly important fact is not even mentioned in Warraq's book is indicative of a flawed analysis. What upsets me the most is the title of this book. If Warraq hates being a Muslim then it is his right to do so but many Muslims worldwide probably find the title of his book highly offensive let alone absurd and he should respect that. If you want to make much money very fast then simply write a book that defames Islam and you do not even have to base it on facts. Lies and distortions will do just fine! I fully respect Warraq's choice not to be a Muslim but he should respect our choice to be Muslims and not judge us based on our religious conviction. Unfortunately, many of us nowadays no longer dare say that we are Muslims thanks to such noble minds as Mr. Warraq. When reading Warraq's book, one gets the impression that all Muslims are intolerant and atavistic individuals who vehemently impose their values on non-Muslims. According to Warraq, Muslims loathe non-Muslims and atheists. Furthermore, it is also implicitly implied in this book that Islam covertly sanctions terrorism and unjustifiable killing of innocent civilians. These assertions are absurd and completely unfounded. I am a Muslim and I fully respect all human beings regardless of their religious conviction, race etc. I judge people based on the content of their character, be they Christians, Jews or atheists.	2004-03-13
US	36800531	R6NLYZ5N38096	0520216628	822777157	The Bridge Betrayed: Religion and Genocide in Bosnia (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Indispensable	Although of Serbian origin, Michael Sells offers a detailed, unbiased and honest analysis of Serbian nationalism and Christian fundamentalism. Sells argues that Christian mythology and extremism helped enable the annihilation of an entire people. Driven by an ancient hatred for the Turks which dates back to the rule of the Ottoman Empire, the Serbs have always viewed Muslims as their primary adversary. Today, many Serbian nationalists deliberately associate Bosnian Muslims with the Ottomans even though no such link exists. However, this is sophisticated propaganda, the goal of which is to mislead the Serbian people and to induce hatred in them. This strategy turned out to be very successful because it unleashed the extermination of Bosnian Muslims. Numerous testimonies offered by the survivors of the Bosnian war lend considerable support to Sells' thesis, namely that Christian extremism played a pivotal role in justifying the genocide of Bosnian Muslims. For example, many survivors reported being called \\"bloody Turks\\" by Serbs soldiers. Other similar derogatory slurs were frequently used by Serb soldiers, revealing great hatred for Muslims. Moreover, a systematic destruction of mosques and other Islamic architecture indicate that the Serbs wanted to obliterate every single trace of Islam in Bosnia. The fact that every single mosque has been destroyed in Republika Srpska speaks for itself. Conversely, many churches remain intact in the area controlled by the Bosnian government. In point of fact, only a few churches have been destroyed. It needs to be pointed out that Croats also purposely targeted historical monuments, as is evident in their destruction of Stari Most, the infamous old bridge in Mostar, the symbolic significance of which cannot be overstressed. For many years, the bridge had symbolized co-existence and a multiethnic society. By destroying the bridge, the Croat nationalists sent a clear message, namely that co-existence was not feasible. Christian fundamentalism and propaganda are also highly evident in literary works of many Christian writers. A novelist and a recipient of Nobel Prize, Ivo Andric, depicted Muslims as primitive and intransigent extremists whose principal goal was to create an Islamic state in Bosnia, clearly oblivious to the fact that Bosnia was a secularized society. Many renowned Serbian authors openly express similar views, one of which is Vuk Draskovic, known for his bigotry, parochialism and Islamophobia. Paradoxically, few attempts are made in Serbia to criticize these preposterous let alone distorted assertions, the sole purpose of which is to defame the adherents of the Islamic faith. Sells further correctly points out in his book that the Western (read Christian) world knowingly stood by and allowed for the Bosnian genocide to continue. The evidence to corroborate this claim is abundant. The imposition of the arms embargo, constant futile negotiations with a notorious war criminal Milosevic and Vance-Owens's plan to partition Bosnia into a Serb and a Croat part, leaving nothing to Bosnian Muslims, thereby rewarding the aggressor and punishing the victim. In spite of the initial collaboration with Muslims, the Croats suddenly turned their back on Muslims and began destroying them, presumably thinking that it is better to kill Muslims (the alien) than their fellow Christians- the Serbs. In point of fact, Tudjman and Milosevic had secretly agreed to divide Bosnia into a Serb and a Croat part. Sells' book lucidly divulges the crucial role of Christian fanaticism and mythology in allowing for the genocide of Bosnian Muslims to occur. This is truly a well written, well argued and thoroughly documented account of the Bosnian war. Highly recommended.	2004-02-13
US	36800531	R33ZGK4I3BSRVH	0520216628	822777157	The Bridge Betrayed: Religion and Genocide in Bosnia (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	An indispensable source for understandning the Bosnian war	Although of Serbian origin, Michael Sells offers a detailed, unbiased and honest analysis of Serbian nationalism and Christian fundamentalism. Sells argues that Christian mythology and extremism helped enable the annihilation of an entire people. Driven by an ancient hatred for the Turks which dates back to the rule of the Ottoman Empire, the Serbs have always viewed Muslims as their primary adversary. Today, many Serbian nationalists deliberately associate Bosnian Muslims with the Ottomans even though no such link exists. However, this is sophisticated propaganda, the goal of which is to mislead the Serbian people and to induce hatred in them. This strategy turned out to be very successful because it unleashed the extermination of Bosnian Muslims. Numerous testimonies offered by the survivors of the Bosnian war lend considerable support to Sells' thesis, namely that Christian extremism played a pivotal role in justifying the genocide of Bosnian Muslims. For example, many survivors reported being called \\"bloody Turks\\" by Serbs soldiers. Other similar derogatory slurs were frequently used by Serb soldiers, revealing great hatred for Muslims. Moreover, a systematic destruction of mosques and other Islamic architecture indicate that the Serbs wanted to obliterate every single trace of Islam in Bosnia. The fact that every single mosque has been destroyed in Republika Srpska speaks for itself. Conversely, many churches remain intact in the area controlled by the Bosnian government. In point of fact, only a few churches have been destroyed. It needs to be pointed out that Croats also purposely targeted historical monuments, as is evident in their destruction of Stari Most, the infamous old bridge in Mostar, the symbolic significance of which cannot be overstressed. For many years, the bridge had symbolized co-existence and a multiethnic society. By destroying the bridge, the Croat nationalists sent a clear message, namely that co-existence was not feasible. Christian fundamentalism and propaganda are also highly evident in literary works of many Christian writers. A novelist and a recipient of Nobel Prize, Ivo Andric, depicted Muslims as primitive and intransigent extremists whose principal goal was to create an Islamic state in Bosnia, clearly oblivious to the fact that Bosnia was a secularized society. Many renowned Serbian authors openly express similar views, one of which is Vuk Draskovic, known for his bigotry, parochialism and Islamophobia. Paradoxically, few attempts are made in Serbia to criticize these preposterous let alone distorted assertions, the sole purpose of which is to defame the adherents of the Islamic faith. Sells further correctly points out in his book that the Western (read Christian) world knowingly stood by and allowed for the Bosnian genocide to continue. The evidence to corroborate this claim is abundant. The imposition of the arms embargo, constant futile negotiations with a notorious war criminal Milosevic and Vance-Owens's plan to partition Bosnia into a Serb and a Croat part, leaving nothing to Bosnian Muslims, thereby rewarding the aggressor and punishing the victim. In spite of the initial collaboration with Muslims, the Croats suddenly turned their back on Muslims and began destroying them, presumably thinking that it is better to kill Muslims (the alien) than their fellow Christians- the Serbs. In point of fact, Tudjman and Milosevic had secretly agreed to divide Bosnia into a Serb and a Croat part. Sells' book lucidly divulges the crucial role of Christian fanaticism and mythology in allowing for the genocide of Bosnian Muslims to occur. This is truly a well written, well argued and thoroughly documented account of the Bosnian war. Highly recommended.	2004-02-10
US	36800531	R3G4U0HY3KWG7C	1859847765	292899299	To Kill a Nation: The Attack on Yugoslavia	Books	1	24	74	N	N	Preposterous Revisionism	Having read Parenti's views on the war in Bosnia, I was truly appalled. By arguing that the war in Bosnia was not a Serbian aggression, Parenti has completely lost his credibility. Like Diana Johnstone, Parenti is an apologist for the Serbs. For example, Parenti claims that the gruesome massacre in Srebrenica was a mere fabrication. In point of fact, according to Parenti, no massacre actually took place. This assertion is completely unfounded, extremely cynical and outrageous. Consider the following facts pertaining to the massacre in Srebrenica, one of the worst in Europe since World War II. Following its own official investigation into the massacre in Srebrenica, Republika Srpska has taken full responsibility for the massacre. Testimonies of thirty Bosnian Serbs and several thousand Bosnian Muslims who survived the massacre reveal that approximately 9,000 Muslim men were immediately executed when Srebrenica fell. Even the testimony given by Dragan Obrenovic, a Bosnian Serb colonel, at the war tribunal in The Hague is consistent with the previous accounts offered by other Bosnian Serbs. In point of fact, according to Obrenovic, the massacre in Srebrenica was a direct order of Karadzic and Mladic. Even Biljana Plavsic who was recently convicted of the crimes against humanity corroborated Obrenovic's testimony. The operation was labeled Krivaja 95. Republika Srpska recently issued an official apology for the gruesome massacre in Srebrenica. It is completely beyond my comprehension that someone who was not even there keeps claiming that nothing happened in Srebrenica despite the evidence presented above. What more proof do you need Mr. Parenti? It is like saying that the Holocaust never occurred! Imagine how the survivors of the Holocaust must feel upon hearing such abominable propaganda. Furthermore, Parenti asserts that Milosevic's intention never was to create a &quot;Greater Serbia&quot;. This is also a flagrant misrepresentation of the actual events and a gross distortion of pertinent facts. Milosevic had on several occasions said that the creation of a &quot;Greater Serbia&quot; should be a principal objective of the Serbian people. Driven by fervent nationalism and an ancient hatred for the &quot;Turks&quot;, Milosevic urged his people to exterminate all non-Serbs as these allegedly posed a serious threat to a &quot;Greater Serbia&quot;, for corroboration see for example Noel Malcolm, David Rieff, Tim Judah, Michael Sells, David Rohde and Roy Gutman. Aided by Serbia and Russia, the Bosnian Serbs felt omnipotent. They were militarily superior to both Muslims and Croats. Evidence that the Serbs were the aggressors is overwhelming and unequivocal and yet Parenti knowingly chooses to overlook it and to downplay its immense importance. Do not misunderstand me, I am a staunch opponent of unilateral and unwarranted military interventions, the underlying motive of which is to safeguard the strategic and economic interests of a particular state. Nonetheless, the NATO's intervention against Serbia was both morally justifiable and warranted and it stopped the war in Kosovo, didn't it? Thinking that all conflicts can be solved peacefully is extremely nave. One cannot negotiate with a tyrant like Milosevic. Also, how many people have to die before you can please Milosevic? It is easy for authors like Parenti and Herman to constantly speak of diplomacy and peaceful resolutions sitting in their cozy homes somewhere in the U.S. They have not experienced the horrors of war. My grandmother has, she survived the massacre in Srebrenica and was able to tell of the gruesome scenes from hell. I am a revisionist but I believe that certain conflicts cannot be solved without the use of force. When negotiations fail, the use of force is morally justifiable and those who believe otherwise are gullible. According to Parenti, Milosevic was willing to negotiate. However, Parenti &quot;forgot&quot; to mention that Milosevic would not negotiate unless it was on his terms, it would be his way or no way at all. According to Parenti, the NATO's intervention in Kosovo further escalated atrocities and led to even more devastation and ethnic cleansing. This is perhaps true but that it put an end to the Serbian aggression is an irrefutable fact. Who knows how long the war would have lasted if the NATO had not intervened and how many more would have died if they had not intervened?	2004-01-14
US	36800531	R2ZLBB5BQQSXY6	1567511767	960551625	The New Military Humanism: Lessons From Kosovo	Books	1	9	32	N	N	Illusions	Chomsky's assertions as regard the Bosnian war and the subsequent war in Kosovo are completely unfounded and in many cases highly outrageous. Like Diana Johnstone, Chomsky claims that these wars were civil wars and not genocides. As is well known, civil war implies collective guilt. This postulation is a flagrant misrepresentation of the actual events. The war in Bosnia was a clear and unequivocal case of a Serbian aggression, as was the war in Kosovo. Evidence refuting Chomsky's preposterous revisionism is overwhelming and indisputable; for rebuttal see books by Noel Malcolm, David Rieff, Roy Gutman, Michael Sells and the winner of the Pulitzer Prize David Rohde who in his book A Safe Area offers a brilliant account of the gruesome massacre in Srebrenica. In his analysis of the war in Bosnia, Chomsky deliberately overlooks many crucial facts. For example, the fact that it was Serbia that attacked Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and ultimately Kosovo is not even mentioned. As far as I recall, Serbia was not attacked by any of the neighboring countries. In light of this fact, how can anyone even begin to talk about collective guilt? Milosevic's principal objective was to create a \\"Greater Serbia\\" and in order to achieve that it was necessary to exterminate all non-Serbs. Milosevic was driven by ardent nationalism and an ancient hatred for the Turks (read Muslims), for corroboration see for example Michael Sells' The Bridge Betrayed. Sells explains how the Serbian propaganda played a pivotal role in enabling the genocide of the Bosnian Muslims. The Serbs were blinded by highly sophisticated propaganda, the goal of which was to depict Muslims as a grave threat to the very existence of the Serbian people. For a meticulous and elaborate analysis of the Serbian nationalism, see for example Tim Judah's The Serbs and Noel Malcolm's Bosnia. Another absurd assertion made by Chomsky is that the atrocities perpetrated by the Kosovars and the Serbs were almost identical in nature. Facing a much more powerful adversary, the Kosovars did not stand a chance. The war crimes committed by the Kosovars do not even come close to those by the Serbs. Once again, Chomsky makes no mention of the fact that it was Serbia that attacked and invaded Kosovo, thereby ignoring the very reason the war began. If one country invades or attacks another then it is an aggression, not civil war! Chomsky further holds that the NATO's intervention only escalated the atrocities and the ethnic cleansing. The only thing that we know for sure is that it stopped the aggression, this is irrefutable. Sitting in his cozy home somewhere in the U.S. it is easy for Chomsky to constantly advocate diplomacy and peaceful resolutions. Believing that all conflict can be solved peacefully is nave. You cannot negotiate with everyone since certain individuals just do not want to negotiate. Known for his intransigence and malice, all negotiations with Milosevic were futile, it was either his way or no way at all. How many people have to die before we conclude that negotiations do not work? When in extreme danger, negotiation is hardly the first solution that comes to mind. If there is a reasonable chance to subdue the assailant then there is no need to negotiate, after all we all have the right to self-defense. Also, why should you reward a tyrant like Milosevic by negotiating with him? Give him an ultimatum and unless he complies, punish him severely. I am rest assured that the war in Kosovo would have lasted much longer if the NATO had not intervened. When negotiations fail as they did in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo then the use of force is morally justifiable and warranted. Those claiming otherwise have never experienced horrors of war. Even though I am a staunch opponent of unilateral and unwarranted military interventions, it would be nave to think that we can always negotiate an end to every conflict. I agree with Chomsky about the Middle East and the U.S. foreign policy but he is entirely wrong regarding Bosnia and Kosovo.  For honest and well-documented analyses of the wars in Bosnia and Kosovo, see books by Roy Gutman, David Rohde and Noel Malcolm.	2004-01-12
US	36800531	RXN5VTZAGHNRW	185984412X	238281462	The New Rulers of the World	Books	5	36	40	N	N	An indispensable account of globalisation	Pilger offers a detailed and well documented account of gross global injustices and their lingering implications. He explains the underlying causes of poverty and terrorism and asserts that imperialism constitutes the most dangerous threat to international peace and stability. After you finish reading this book you will learn that human lives are not equally important (for example, American lives are much more valuable than those of Afghanistan, Iraq etc). Consider one of the most cynical concepts ever coined- collateral damage which implies that any means justify the end, that is, certain human lives may be sacrificed but only if these lives are not American. September 11 was a horrible tragedy, let there be no doubt about that. Nonetheless, countless tragedies occur every day in other parts of the world of which we hardly even hear, much due to mass medias extreme bias. The images of the two planes crashing into the Twin Towers have been permanently imprinted on our memory. In fact, there are not many people in the world who are not familiar with the September 11 attack. On the other hand, how many people know what happened in Srebrenica in 1995? How many people know or even care about the number of the victims killed (inadvertently or not) by unilateral U.S. interventions? How many people die in Iraq as a result of depleted uranium and the sanctions? These stories are considered to be of minor importance by the mainstream media and are rarely even accounted for in major newspapers. Clearly, some lives are more important than others. Pilger argues that only by eliminating poverty and oppression and by respecting human rights can we obliterate terrorism. If the worlds only remaining superpower shows contempt for international law and treaties, can we expect others to abide by international laws? It would be extremely hypocritical to demand that others respect human rights while simultaneously displaying a flagrant disregard for all international laws. Pilger correctly points out that we have to practice what we preach; failure to do that is indicative of gross hypocrisy and cynicism. This book further exposes gross economic inequalities between the West and the Rest. You will further learn how the World Bank impedes the progress of the developing countries through the imposition of preposterous loan conditions. Not many people know that the U.S. collaborated with Saddam and even vetoed a U.N. resolution calling for a condemnation of Saddam's massacres against the Kurds. When it serves the U.S. strategic and economic interests then collaboration with a tyrant is justifiable. Discover why developing countries become increasingly poorer and how the wealth of the West is constantly increasing. No one seems to think that it is extremely unjust that an executive can make up to 100,000 dollar a month while a great number of people live below the poverty line and do not even have enough food to survive. In fact, did you know that people working for Nike and the Gap in Indonesia receive 1 U.S. dollar a day? Did you know that the working conditions of these people are gruesome? Their employers are apathetic and indifferent individuals who show a flagrant disregard for human suffering! We keep ignoring Pilger's truth at our own peril.	2003-12-23
US	36800531	RZ6HFO8U3NDLV	1583225382	613740289	Israel/Palestine: How to End the War of 1948	Books	5	39	53	N	N	A devastating critique of Israels occupation	Reinhart offers a brilliant analysis of Israel's aggressive and merciless policy toward the Palestinians. As has always been the case in the past, those who dare criticize Israel somehow always end up being called self-hate Jews, traitors or even anti-Semitists. Needless to say, this is a highly efficient strategy, the goal of which is to deter people from criticising the infallible and omnipotent Israelis. Reinhart, being a Jewish woman, has already been labelled a self-hate Jew and in many cases even a traitor. In this book, Reinhart carefully reviews the previous peace processes and explains why they all failed and what Israel and U.S. actually offered at Camp David. Contrary to a popular belief, Israelis did not offer to dismantle the already existing settlements or to stop building new settlements. Also, Reinhart exposes the myths about the peace process and rectifies the grossly misrepresented and distorted images of the peace plan as presented by corporate American media. According to Reinhart, because Israel anticipated a refusal by the Palestinians, Israel deliberately offered little. A refusal by the Palestinians is then automatically attributed to their intransigence and belligerence. The Palestinians are then portrayed by the mass media as war-mongering terrorists who strongly oppose the existence of the state of Israel while Israel comes off as generous and peace-loving. In spite of the U.N. resolution calling upon Israel to immediately withdraw from and stop building new settlements in the occupied areas, Israel continues building new settlements in a flagrant violation of international law and yet the mass media keep blaming the Palestinians. Any reasonable human being finds this extremely unjust and cynical. To be able to truly understand the plight of the Palestinians, one has to know what it feels like to be oppressed, devoid of hope and powerless. As Tanya points out, Israel feels omnipotent having the U.S. on its side while the Palestinians haveno one to turn to for help. Imagine what it must feel like being unable to change anything, imagine being stopped by Israeli police every single day on your way to work and finally imagine a life over which you have no control. Now, imagine that your oppressor is much more powerful and armed than yourself, what can you do? Nothing. You can urge the U.N. and the rest of the world to put an end to your misery. However, the mainstream media keep telling the whole world that it is your fault and that you must change, no matter that you are the victim. Reinhart brilliantly accounts for the unfathomable suffering of the Palestinians, for their despair and hopelessness. Reinhart also briefly discusses the U.S. role in the conflict as a dishonest broker that always unconditionally sides with Israelis. In fact, following an atrocious attack by Israelis in which many Palestinian civilians were killed, the U.S. senate approved $2.76 billion in financial aid to Israel. Few people wonder why the U.S. supports Israel given Israel's extensive record of human rights violations. Had the U.S. truly wanted to obliterate terrorism, then it would not have backed up autocratic and oppressive regimes. Tanya's book is by far the most exhaustive and devastating critique of Israel's oppression; it is extremely well written and argued. There is something special about such a noble mind which cannot be described in words. Thank you Tanya for your honesty, courage, empathy but above all a great dedication for the weak and the victimized.	2003-12-09
US	36800531	R2DH6GLTKWI1L4	0300085079	954724686	The Serbs: History, Myth and the Destruction of Yugoslavia, Second Edition (Yale Nota Bene)	Books	4	12	36	N	N	An elaborate analysis of Serbian nationalism	That Slobodan Milosevic constituted a far greater threat to international security than Saddam Hussein is irrefutable and yet many people in the West remain completely oblivious to the unfathomable war crimes perpetrated by Milosevic. Judah offers a riveting and exhaustive account of Serbian nationalism and explains how it came to play a pivotal role in the subsequent wars in the region. Driven by ardent nationalism and the ancient hatred for the Turks, Serbs wanted to create a &quot;Greater Serbia&quot;, a state which ideally would consist of Serbs only. As is well known, the Serbian attempts to invade Slovenia and Croatia failed. However, Serbs did not stop there. Aided by Serbia, Bosnian Serbs began annihilating Bosnian Muslims who, due to the imposition of the arms embargo, were poorly armed and rather defenseless. Facing a much more powerful adversary, Bosnian Muslims did not stand a chance. Bosnian Serbs conducted ethnic cleansing throughout Bosnia, killing and expelling Muslims from Foca, Visegrad, Gorazde, Srebrenica, Doboj, Banja Luka, Bijeljina etc. In 1995, Bosnian Serbs committed one of the worst massacres in Europe after the World War II in Srebrenica. Approximately 10,000 Muslims were massacred by the Serbian forces led by Ratko Mladic. Judah also provides a chilling account of the notorious camps Keraterm and Omarska, in which Muslims were subjected to gruesome torture and maltreatment. If you want to learn about the odious war crimes committed by Milosevic, Radovan Karadzic, Arkan and Seselj, then read this book. Also, if you want to understand the root causes of the Bosnian war, I strongly recommend this book.	2003-11-19
US	36800531	R2TL6UV0BM4F5	1567511848	484071607	Derailing Democracy: The America the Media Don't Want You to See	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Exposing gross hypocrisy and injustices	Packed with numerous essential facts, this book provides a detailed account of serious transgressions and violations of international law perpetrated by the U.S. government, the facts which can be ignored and dismissed only by jingoists. This book reveals an extremely flawed foreign policy of the United States. McGowan argues that the U.S. foreign policy makers seek to protect strategic and economic interests of the U.S. at any cost, even if many innocent people have to be sacrificed, that is as long as they are not Americans. According to McGowan, U.S. has shown no signs that it cares about the poor, the victimized and the oppressed. On the contrary, U.S. has consistently and systematically opposed every U.N. resolution stipulating a right to food and acknowledging children's rights and the rights of Palestinians. Morever, U.S. has vetoed every U.N. resolution calling for a condemnation of Israeli human rights violations. No one seems to wonder why no U.N. inspectors have been allowed to enter the facilities in Israel in which weapons of mass destruction have been produced. Why does not the U.S. coerce Israel to cooperate with the U.N.? Why does the U.S. knowingly hamper development of poor countries? Why does not the U.S. ratify the agreement banning the use of chemical and biological weapons? Why does the U.S. collaborate with terrorists when it serves the interests of the U.S.? This book divulges unfathomable injustices and gross violations of international law perpatrated by the only remaining superpower in the world. Even though this book contains a great number of important facts, it lacks a detailed analysis and for that reason I gave it four stars. For an elaborate and meticulous analysis of the U.S. foreign policy, I strongly recommend a book called Why do people hate America by Ziauddin Sardar and Merryl Wyn Davies; irrefutably the best book on the subject matter.	2003-11-04
US	36800531	R148T9L1JBGS7O	0966410076	739549691	You Are Being Lied To: The Disinformation Guide to Media Distortion, Historical Whitewashes and Cultural Myths	Books	2	19	30	N	N	Disappointing	That corporate media frequently misrepresent and distort facts is a well known phenomenon. Mainstream media serve the interests of the elite and censor stories which might have a harmful effect on the government. The principal objective of the mass media is to marginalize dissent; this is done by employing selective reporting. Chomsky's elaborate analysis of the mainstream media divulges the spectacular achievements of propaganda, the most important of which is to gain support for the government's military incursions. This book puports to account for media distortion, historical whitewashes and cultural myths. Thinking that this book would provide honest and unbiased answers I was utterly disappointed. Having said that, I am not implying that this book is worthless. There are highly respected and eminent contributors, some of which are Noam Chomsky, Howard Zinn and Ali Abuniham. Nonetheless there are also &quot;experts&quot; (most notably Christian and Michael Parenti and Howard Bloom) who distort and misrepresent facts. Given that their objective is to expose lies and tell us the truth, it is an irony that they were included in this book. Just a few examples to illustrate the point. Christian and Michael Parenti assert that the Serbs were the victims of the war in Kosovo and not the aggressors. This assertion is extremely preposterous and completely unfounded. The whole world knows that the Serbs had attempted to create a &quot;Greater Serbia&quot;, in which there would be no place for non-Serbs. This is what drove Serbs to attack Croatia, Bosnia and ultimately Kosovo. As far as I recall, the neighbouring countries did not attack nor attempt to invade Serbia. In light of this fact, how can the brothers Parenti protect war criminals like Milosevic, Karadzic and Mladic and downplay their gruesome atrocities? It is beyond my comprehension. The wars in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo were not civil wars as the brothers Parenti so ardently suggest but genocides perpetrated by the Serbs. This is extremely well documented and has been corroborated by numerous renowned journalists, some of which are David Rohde and David Reiff. The brothers Parenti seem to have forgotten the unfathomable massacre of Muslims in Srebrenica, a massacre which was carried out by Ratko Mladic and his paramilitary factions from Serbia. Approximately 10,000 Muslims were killed in one of the worst massacres in Europe after the World War II. Howard Bloom holds in his analysis that the Palestinians are not the victims of the Israeli occupation; according to Bloom the Palestinians are not oppressed. Paradoxically, Bloom makes no mention of the 22-year long Israeli occupation of Southern Lebanon. Thus, their analyses are biased and distorted as they blame the victims and exculpate the aggressors. This is indicative of spurious scholarship and poor journalism. Consequently, this book does not live up to its title, namely to expose lies and rectify them. Alternative media is for the most part much more reliable and accurate than mainstream media but the examples above strongly indicate that that is not always the case. Beware, there is plenty of sophisticated propaganda even in places where you least expect it to be.	2003-10-28
US	36800531	R2TH7XJQFOGP98	0971394253	975323778	Why Do People Hate America?	Books	5	9	19	N	N	Indispensable	This book contains numerous important facts about the U.S. foreign policy, many of which have never even been mentioned in corporate media. Small wonder then that many people are completely oblivious to some of these facts. Many people will despise this book as it shows the U.S. from a different perspective. Jingoists will attempt to defame and discredit the author of this book and refer to him as an extremist who hates America. Needless to say, this is a highly calculated move, the goal of which is to escape criticism. Just dismiss constructive criticism as anti-Americanism and no one dares to criticise you. Similarly, criticise Israel and you are immediately called an anti-Semitist. Ziauddin Sardar and Merryl Wyn Davies divulge a grossly flawed and unjust foreign policy of the world's only remaining superpower. Just a few examples from the book to illustrate the point. Did you know any of the following?<BR>* U.S. government supports oppressive regimes (for example Israel, Saudi Arabia etc) and collaborates with terrorists when it furthers strategic and economic interests of the U.S. It is a well known fact that CIA has trained some of the world's most notorious terrorists. In Chile, CIA removed a democratically elected president Salvador Allende. He was replaced by General Pinochet, known for his gruesome atrocities against the people of Chile. <BR>* U.S. has consistently and deliberately opposed and vetoed against every U.N. resolution which called for a unanimous condemnation of Israeli human rights violations. Protected and aided by the U.S. government, Israel frequently violates international law with impunity. Also, Israel is the greatest beneficiary of U.S. financial aid. Why is it that no U.N. inspectors have been allowed to enter facilities in Israel in which weapons of mass destruction are produced? No threats have been directed at Israel for non-compliance. On the other hand, a mere suspicion is sufficient to launch a massive attack on an Arab country. \\"Collateral damage\\" is a cynical concept coined by the U.S. government which implies that in order to achieve a higher goal, some sacrifices have to be made. In other words, some civilian casualties will be accepted as long as they happen to be Arabs. Strategic and economic interests have to be safeguarded at any cost. U.S. is hegemony; Americans view themselves as omnipotent and impeccable rulers of the world who do not have to answer to anyone. They do not have to explain nor justify their actions to anyone; they are exempt from all international laws. <BR>* U.S. imposes severe restrictions and unnecessarily high taxes on developing countries' exports and imports, thereby making it almost impossible for poor countries to improve their already miserable economies. Moreover, U.S. imposes (through organizations like World Bank) preposterous conditions on developing countries' loans. According to Sardar and Davies, World Bank is essentially an organization which serves interests of the U.S. In order to be granted a loan, developing countries have to make enormous sacrifices. For example, they have to sign an agreement by which they are obliged to import American products only; they are allowed to export their products to America only if these given products are made of material from the U.S. Given these rather insurmountable obstacles to which third world countries are exposed, small wonder that they remain destitute. <BR>* U.S. was charged and convicted of state terrorism against Nicaragua by the International Court in The Hague. Despite clear warnings to immediately refrain from illegal activities in Nicaragua, U.S. ignored the Court's ruling and deemed it as invalid. As previously stated, U.S. is exempt from punishment. <BR>* U.S. is the only country in the world which has opposed a U.N. resolution stipulating that education and individual freedom are fundamental human rights. U.S. has also refused to accept a resolution stating \\"a right to food\\". Perhaps most agitating is the U.S. refusal to acknowledge childrens rights. <BR>These are only a few facts which have been taken from this book. Surely, this side of the U.S. radically differs from the one to which we are accustomed, namely as shown in Hollywood movies where Americans are always depicted as heroes and the \\"good guys\\" whose objective is to obliterate \\"evil\\" from the face of the earth. Evil guys are for the most part either Russians or Arabs, even though the latter are the preferred ones. As Sardar and Davies assert in their book, talking in absolute terms about \\"good\\" and \\"evil\\" removes the focus from the most important question: namely why people hate America? People who hate America do not hate its immense power and wealth. They hate its extremely flawed and unjust foreign policy. This book provides a detailed and well argued analysis of U.S. foreign policy. It is indispensable and well structured. In fact, it is probably one of the best books on the subject matter. Strongly recommended!	2003-10-10
US	36800531	R1PMUXH6VOGQ7F	158367084X	549734764	Fools' Crusade: Yugoslavia, Nato, and Western Delusions	Books	1	20	97	N	N	Serious Misrepresentation and Distortion of Facts	Diana Johnstone asserts in her book that Bosnian Serbs were not the aggressors of the Bosnian war. This assertion is a blatant misrepresentation and distortion of pertinent facts. For example, it is well known that the Bosnian Serbs had received enormous military support from Serbia, thereby becoming military superior to the Bosnian Muslims which were comparatively poorly armed. Similarly, the Bosnian Croats had received large military aid from the neighbouring Croatia and also were military superior to the Bosnian Muslims. In spite of these irrefutable facts, Johnstone holds that the Bosnian war was essentially a civil war and subsequently she stresses the concept of collective guilt. This is incorrect and misleading as the principal reason the war started in Bosnia was the Serbian attempt to create a state which ideally would comprise of the Serbians only. On that account,the Bosnian Serbs, supported by Serbia, began expelling and annihilating all non-Serbs, a process frequently referred to as \\"ethnic cleansing\\". Johnstone writes in her book that no ethnic cleansing had actually occurred in Bosnia and the concept of \\"ethnic cleansing\\" was merely an invention to support the NATO's military intervention. It appears to me that Johnstone did not do much research on this book. Let me just present some of the facts that she refused to include in her book. A notorious war criminal Zeljko Arnatovic Arkan, known for his gruesome atrocities, arrived in Bosnia together with his Serbian paramilitary force. Other paramilitary factions such as the \\"White Eagles\\" (led by Mirko Jovic) and Seselj's Cetniks also arrived in Bosnia. They were heavily armed and their primary objective was to exterminate all non-Serbs. These paramilitary factions committed odious atrocities in Bosnia by raping, killing and torturing Muslims. Fearing for their lives, 95% of the Muslims from Foca, Zvornik and Visegrad fled their homes. According to Noel Malcolm (2002), it was Serbia that had planned andcarried out the invasion of Bosnia but this is common knowledge. It has been estimated that there were approximately 100,000 Serbian soldiers in Bosnia. Seriously disabled by the arms embargo, Bosnian Muslims had no heavy weaponry to properly defend themselves. Bosnian Serbs had shelled Sarajevo from Pale and prevented any food and medical supplies to enter the city. Paradoxically, Johnstone claims that perhaps Muslims themselves had shelled Sarajevo during the war. This assertion is preposterous and completely unfounded. Why would they want to inflict even more damage to their own people? Johnstone seems completely oblivious to the fact that all the shelling had come from Pale, a Serbian stronghold during the entire war. Nevertheless, she chooses to ignore this fact, which of course is of paramount importance. She also ignores the fact that the Bosnian Muslims were poorly armed and lacked the sophisticated weaponry which would have enabled them to shell Sarajevo for an extensive period of time. Another absurd and ridiculous accusation made by Johnstone is that she doubts that the Serbs had committed unfathomable atrocities in Srebrenica. It is a well known fact that the Serbian massacre in Srebrenica was the worst in Europe after the World War II. Tadeusz Mazowiecki referred to the massacre as barbarous. Approximately 10,000 Muslims were massacred in Srebrenica by the Serbian forces, led by Ratko Mladic (please check David Rohde and Noel Malcolm for corroboration). Johnstone further asserts that Milosevic and Karadzic are basically pious individuals and they do not deserve to be prosecuted for their abhorrent war crimes. The whole world knows that Milosevic was the mastermind and that his goal was to create a \\"Greater Serbia\\". Driven by ardent nationalism and sheer fascism, Milosevic provided the Bosnian Serbs with enormous military aid. Karadzic followed Milosevic's orders by annihilating as many Muslims as was possible. How can Johnstone even believe that Milosevic, Karadzic and Mladic are decent individuals given the gruesome deeds that they committed? Why does she emphasize the concept of \\"collective guilt\\" when we all know that the Serbs were the aggressors? How can she possibly claim that the Serbs were the victims in light of the fact that they had received enormous military support from the neighbouring Serbia, not only in terms of the weaponry, but also the ground troops? Why does she constantly downplay the Serbian atrocities and accentuates the very few committed by the Muslims? The war in Bosnia was not a civil war; it was a genocide, the goal of which was to exterminate all Muslims. According to Noel Malcolm (2002), Serbian propaganda had been very successful in brainwashing and misleading the Bosnian Serbs as many of them viewed Muslims as their enemy. By scaring the Bosnian Serbs and by depicting Muslims as intransigent extremists, the Serbian government had managed to induce hatred for Muslims. Needless to say, this enabled them to easier recruit volunteers for their sacred cause, namely to create a state comprising of the Serbs only. Johnstone seems to condemn the Bosnian Muslims for defending themselves. Johnstone's book is thus indicative of spurious and poor scholarship. For meticulous and thorough research on the war in Bosnia, see books by David Rohde, Noel Malcolm, Norman Cigar, David Reiff etc. If you disagree with me, please let me know by sending an email to akocevic@hotmail.com.	2003-09-06
US	36800531	R2IIXLV9FZSACY	0872864049	339949818	September 11 and the U.S. War: Beyond the Curtain of Smoke	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Tour de Force	This book is a compilation of short essays written by highly intelligent analysts who attempt to account for the root causes of terrorism and the lingering implications of the U.S. foreign policy. Contrary to the popular albeit nave belief, terrorists do not target Western modernism. Instead it is the U.S. foreign policy which makes certain individuals inimically disposed towards the U.S. government. Driven principally by imperialistic motives, the U.S. foreign policy makers seek to defend their strategic and economic interests even at the expense of human lives. Furthermore, U.S. punishes certain regimes which are oppressive and belligerent while it simultaneously aids and protects other which are equally if not more corrupt. In order to protect its strategic and economic interests, U.S. supports Saudi Arabia, Israel and Egypt, countries known for their extensive records of human rights violations. Also it is unanimously recognized in this book that the chief motive of the U.S. interference in the Middle East is its effort to control the enormous oil resources of the region. Oil thus plays a crucial role in U.S. foreign policy. Oil is the main reason why the U.S. keeps protecting Saudi Arabia. Also oil is the principal reason U.S. aided the Mujahideen in Afghanistan following the Soviet invasion and not as is generally assumed to protect the people of Afghanistan. Soviet posed a serious threat to U.S. economic interests in the region. When it furthers the U.S. strategic and economic interests, cooperation with terrorists is morally justifiable. However, when other countries harbour terrorists they need to be severely punished. This is extremely hypocritical and cynical as the U.S. does not judge its own actions by the same standards it applies to others. Not many people know that U.S. government was charged with state terrorism against Nicaragua in 1986 by the International Court in the Hague. The International Court urged the U.S. to immediately put a stop to itsterrorist activities in Nicaragua but U.S. did not comply. At this point Nicaragua still has not received any restitution from the U.S. government. Furthermore, U.S. is the only country in the world which has refused to acknowledge Palestinian rights, to prohibit nuclear test explosions, to ban the use of cluster bombs, to give increased aid to developing countries, to condemn apartheid in South Africa, to forbid the use of chemical and biological weapons, to take adequate measures against Nazi and Fascist activities, to study the underlying causes of terrorism, to vote for \\"a right to food\\", to accept a resolution stipulating that education, work, health and national development are fundamental human rights. In 1998, U.S. destroyed a pharmaceutical plant in Sudan which produced approximately 90 % of the most important medicines. According to U.S. the plant was secretly used to manufacture chemical warfare. However, no evidence was produced in support of this accusation and the leading world experts almost unanimously rejected this assertion. U.S. still has not paid any restitution to the owner of the plant let alone apologized for the abhorrent act. Had it been the other way around, Sudan would have been attacked within minutes. U.S. invasion of Grenada in 1983 received much international condemnation but Reagan arrogantly dismissed the criticism. Indonesian invasion of East Timor was directly sanctioned by the U.S. government. U.S. also impeded all efforts of the U.N. to put a stop to the invasion. 200,000 people were killed as a result of the invasion. U.S. was one of the few countries in the world giving both diplomatic and military support to Indonesia. Following the invasion, U.S. officials referred to General Suharto as \\"our kind of guy\\". U.S. and its allies depleted a great amount of uranium in Iraq during the Gulf War resulting in a drastic increase in serious illnesses such as leukaemia, carcinoma, lung cancer etc. When it suits U.S. strategic and economic interests, then tacit collaboration with Saddam Hussein is legitimate and justifiable, even though the U.S. government was aware of his gruesome atrocities against the Kurds. When he no longer wants to be a puppet for the U.S. interests in the region, then he has to be removed. Unlike other books which purport to account for the origins of terrorism, this book explains what the real causes of terrorism are. Needless to say, understanding why terrorism emerges does by no means mean that it is justifiable. Trying to curb and obliterate terrorism without examining its root causes is like treating a patient and having a wrong diagnosis. As long as the U.S. government keeps viewing itself as the world's hegemony (exempt from all international laws and moral obligations) hatred for U.S. foreign policy will grow stronger. U.S. demands that other countries abide by international law and in case they do not comply, they might be severely punished. On the other hand, U.S. displays a flagrant disregard for all international laws. U.S. is infallible, omnipotent and acts with impunity. When criticized for his unjust and discriminatory foreign policy, George Bush replied: \\"I will never apologize for the United States of America. I do not care what the facts are\\". These are only some of the vital facts found in this extremely important book. I recommend this book especially to jingoists but also others who think that the U.S. government cares for the oppressed and the victimized.	2003-08-21
US	36800531	R3FJUKYSVYE51V	0943875897	4104321	Origins of Terrorism: Psychologies, Ideologies, Theologies, States of Mind	Books	2	33	112	N	N	Oversimplified and Biased	This book attempts to account for the root causes of terrorism. However it fails to provide a meticulous analysis of the origins of terrorism. For example, consider the author's analysis of islamic fanaticism. According to Reich, muslim terrorists, driven by an ardent religious conviction, target western modernism as they despise the Western way of life. In support of his assertion, Reich uses quotes from the Quaran which have been taken out of their proper context. Anyone even vaguely familiar with Islam knows that Islam teaches piety, tolerance, empathy and equality before God (please check the Quaran for corroboration of this). Moreover murder is justifiable only in self-defense. Subsequently, claiming that Islamic fundamentalism emerged as a result of an extreme interpretation of the Quaran is preposterous. The author further asserts that Hezbollah uses religion as a justification for its abhorrent atrocities. Trying to explain the underlying motives of Hezbollah's ideology without even taking into account the 22-years long Israeli occupation of southern Lebanon is indicative of poor scholaship and gross oversimplification. In my view it was the Israeli invasion of Lebanon which triggered the emergence of these resistance groups. The real causes of terrorism are Western imperialism, gross economic inequalities, oppression, abject poverty, Western exploitation of the Middle East's enormous oil fields, imposition of Western values and US capitalism, US constant interventions and support for oppressive governments like Saudi-Arabia, Israel etc. These are the root causes and unless we acknowledge them it will be extremely difficult to obliterate terrorism. It is like treating a patient but having a wrong diagnosis. Another disadvantage of this book is the fact that it almost exclusively focuses on Islamic fundamentalism; no account of Jewish and Christian terrorism is given. This seriously undermines the book's purpose and makes it biased. This book does however provide a thorough account of psychological factors which contribute to the rise of terrorism but these are merely of secondary importance. Interesting read but lacks a detailed analysis.	2003-08-18
US	36800531	RX5WYC4G13OV3	1567511945	280935784	Rogue State: A Guide to the World's Only Superpower	Books	5	41	65	N	N	Hypocrisy, Discrimination and Gross Injustice	Blum gives in his book a detailed analysis of US foreign policy. According to Blum, chief characteristics of US foreign policy are gross hypocrisy and injustice. In order to understand the root causes of 9/11 attacks, it is imperative that we examine US foreign policy. Motivated primarily by imperialistic motives and global domination, US government takes on a role of world police. It unilaterally interferes with international conflicts and its interventions are rarely sanctioned by the UN. Displaying a blatant disregard for UN and international laws, US punishes certain regimes while it simultaneously aids and protects other which are equally oppressive and corrupt. To support his assertion, Blum divulges that the US gives enormous economic and military support to oppressive regimes like Israel, Turkey, Saudi-Arabia etc. How do we explain the fact that the US punishes certain regimes but not others? Strategic interests and oil of course. Blum further asserts that US treatment of certain Arab regimes is highly aggressive and merciless. Why does not the same treatment apply to Israel, Turkey and Russia? Do Americans ever ask themselves this question? Blum does not think so. Furthermore, why are American lives more important than those of Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine? Why does not the US media report to the same extent about the lives of these people killed indirectly by US constant interventions? Blum dares ask the right questions. Do US officials ever wonder why so many third world countries despise their foreign policy? Because it is discriminatory, unjust and extremely hypocritical. Note that they despise US foreign policy and not as the mass media tries to tell you western modernism and prosperity. This is preposterous. Having said that, Blum does not claim that Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan are not oppressive regimes. On the contrary, they are highly oppressive and corrupt but so are Israel and Russia as well. US media never condemns Israel's belligerent actions against the Palestinians. Instead the US media is extremely biased and never critical of US government. Blum's book is extremely important for several reasons. It should be read by those who believe that the US foreign policy is just and impeccable. Most importantly it should definitely be read by every American. Highly recommended.	2003-07-25
US	36800531	R5VIQH922LTR6	0805058729	766674368	A Nation on Trial: The Goldhagen Thesis and Historical Truth	Books	5	50	61	N	N	Excellent	Arguing that much of the Holocaust literature contains gross misinformation and sheer lies, Finkelstein provides an important insight into Goldhagen's insidious attempt to distort historical facts. According to Finkelstein, Goldhagen's book is characterized by numerous contradictions, exaggerations and serious misrepresentation of the facts. For example, Goldhagen asserts in his book that all Germans were belligerent anti-semitists who when given the chance tortured every Jew they could come across. This of course is a gross overgeneralization given that the majority of serious historians agree that many Germans did not commit any enormities against Jewish people. Having said that, Finkelstein does not claim that they were not anti-semitists. On the contrary, many Germans were anti-semitists but they still chose not to take part in the extermination of Jews. Goldhagen however asserts that being a passive observer automatically makes you a perpetrator who is as guilty as the person committing the actual atrocities. If this is the case, then most people are perpetrators because we all sometimes witness heinous crimes and gross injustices not being able to stop them. Goldhagen further holds that the Holocaust was a unique event. Note that a unique event must contain unique victims. Thus, according to Goldhagen, Jews were unique victims. What about the gypsies who were murdered during the Holocaust? Why aren't they the unique victims? Why aren't they included in the history books? Distorting the history in this cynical way as Goldhagen does is morally reprehensible. Not all Germans actively participated in the Holocaust. Blaiming the entire nation is preposterous and indicative of spurious scholarship.	2003-07-18
US	36800531	R1LY7J7VW1IOW4	0745319629	319637958	Beyond September 11: An Anthology of Dissent	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Explanatory and Insightful!	According to a number of highly intelligent thinkers, the foreign policy of the U.S. is principally driven by imperialistic motives. In its alleged war against terrorism, the U.S. punishes certain regimes while it simultaneously aids and protects other states which are equally oppressive and belligerent. It is claimed in this book that hypocrisy and imperialism are the chief characteristics of the foreign policy of the U.S. government. It is imperative that we examine the root causes of today's terrorism in order to be able to understand what factors drive people to commit terrorist acts. Why are many third world countries inimically disposed toward the U.S.? This is one of many question thoroughly analyzed in this book. Needless to say, understanding the root causes of terrorism does not mean that it is justifiable. Killing innocent people is always wrong regardless of what the reason might be. However, this must hold for all countries, not just the Arab world. As it stands today, only the actions of the Arab world are condemned and severely punished. What about Israel and Russia? How often does the mass media criticize atrocities committed by these oppressive regimes? Never, at least not in the U.S. although the similar situation applies throughout the West. These highly important questions are meticulously analyzed by the intellectual thinkers found in this book. What they all have in common is their joint effort to depict a highly unjust and discriminatory foreign policy of the U.S. government, characterized by gross hypocrisy. As Chomsky brilliantly puts it, how can the U.S. government possibly claim that it fights terrorism when the U.S. was charged with state terrorism against Nicaragua by International Court in the Hague? It is absurd and worthy of condemnation. This is a book that should be read by every American. It is one of the most important books ever written; a masterpiece beyond comprehension.	2003-07-04
US	36800531	R16E4AAFW9JB6Q	1893956385	534430544	War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You To Know	Books	5	18	22	N	N	The truth that needed to be told!	According to Pitt and Ritter, there is no incriminating evidence that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction. Instead, this argument was used by the US government to justify the war against Iraq. Moreover, there is no evidence of an alleged link between Hussein and Bin Laden, it is also an invention used to justify the war. This war was about one thing only: the control of Iraqi oil. Those who fail to recognize this obvious fact are extremely naive and gullible. Does anyone really believe that the US government truly cares for Iraqi people? Labeling the war \\"Operation Iraqi Freedom\\" is pathetic, ridiculous and extremely insidious. Since when does the US government care about the oppressed and the victimized?	2003-06-05
US	36800531	R2JJ2O9DL6N38Y	1859843409	540995235	Blaming the Victims: Spurious Scholarship and the Palestinian Question	Books	5	63	98	N	N	Interesting and Insightful	By way of introduction, the obvious cannot be overstressed here, namely that Israel is the occupier and therefore the aggressor while the Palestinians are the occupied and therefore the victims. Paradoxically, this fact is hardly ever even taken into consideration by western politicians, thus ignoring the fundamental element of the conflict. Needless to say, attempting to solve this conflict without differentiating between the aggressor (Israel) and the victimized (the Palestinians) will never lead to permanent peace. According to Said, understanding the root causes of the extremist movements in the Palestine is crucial. People turn to extreme measures when in extreme despair and agony. Surely, no one chooses to blow himself in the air when happy and contented with life. Instead, it is in situations in which people see no other way out but to resort to terrorist actions. Needless to say, understanding why terrorism exists does not mean that it is justifiable and morally acceptable. On the contrary, violence is never a solution to any problem. Instead, it can only further aggravate matters. Killing innocent people is always wrong and morally reprehensible. Said further claims that Israeli government mainly consists of extremists and fundamentalists. This is never mentioned in mainstream media; the sole focus is on Islamic fundamentalists. Western politicians never ask themselves the fundamental question: why does terrorism emerge? Said recognizes a number of factors, the most important of which are injustice, poverty, subjugation, inferiority and discrimination. Thus, terrorism is not a result of justice and equality. Israel commits terrorist actions every day and violates international law but no one condemns nor criticizes Israeli government. Instead, the U.S. gives a billion dollar aid to Israel even though Israel is being accused of belligerent and merciless war waging against the Palestinians. As Said puts it, how is it that Israel can remain so extremely powerful among one billion Muslims? The answer to that question is readily apparent to those who disbelieve the mainstream media.	2003-05-23
US	36800531	R3L0QWNB7SUSLA	0745312764	862996109	Jewish Fundamentalism in Israel (Pluto Middle Eastern Studies)	Books	5	33	49	N	N	Jewish fundamentalism exposed!	As is well known, western media solely focuses on Islamic fundamentalism and totally ignores Jewish extremists. Shahak and Mezvinsky have written a \\"forbidden\\" book and for that they deserve praise. It is ironic that as soon as any criticism is directed at Jews, the author is called an anti-semitist. Needless to say, this is an extremely calculated strategy employed to escape and avoid constructive criticism. Shahak and Mezvinsky claim that Jewish fundamentalists believe that they are the chosen people, that they have the right to settle wherever they want and that they are superior to other people. Furthermore, according to Shahak and Mezvinsky, these Jewish extremists aim to create a state comprising of Jews only. All other religions are considered fallible and inferior. Judaism, on the other hand, is considered flawless and superior to all. How can anyone believe that they are the \\"chosen\\" people, that they are superior and omnipotent? This is extremely discriminatory! Another important point made by the authors is that there has never been any mention of Jewish fundamentalism in the American media. This is extremely unfair. Needless to say, the american media is more than ready to criticize Moslems. Any reasonable human being considers this unjust and discriminatory. The authors further assert that powerful Jewish lobbyists prevent this view of the Jews to be presented in the american media. After all, mainstream media is largely controlled by these Jewish elites. This is an important book that should be read by every American. Strongly recommended.	2003-05-20
US	36800531	R2G9NFLYQBG9G4	0395944899	90092487	A History Of World Societies Complete Fifth Edition	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A comprehensive and accurate account of world history	This extraordinarily well written book contains every essential fact with which we all need to be familiar. No other book on the market offers so much information at such a low price. Furthermore, the structure of the book facilitates reading and also makes it more interesting. Needless to say, many history books nowadays present biased accounts of historic facts (after all, it is a well known fact that winners write history books). This book, on the other hand, provides a relatively unbiased and balanced account of world history. I have read a number of history books but none of them is nearly as well written and well structured as this one. In my view, this book should be a part of every students book collection. Highly recommended.	2003-05-18
US	36800531	RTMQK4P38B8RR	0194371891	900802963	The Study of Second Language Acquisition (Oxford Applied Linguistics)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	An excellent account of second language acquisition	This is irrefutably the most comprehensive book on the subject matter. It is meticulously researched, well written and most importantly well structured. Never have I seen such an accomplishment in study of S.L.A. Ellis brilliantly dissects the dominating studies in the field. Moreover, he also presents their weaknesses and strengths. Interesting questions like the effect of formal instruction on language acquisition, the existence of a &quot;critical period&quot; in S.L.A are thoroughly discussed and commented on. In fact, everything you need to know about S.L.A can be found in this book. In my opinion, Rod Ellis is one of the leading researchers in the field of S.L.A. If you are interested in S.L.A. then this book is a must for you. Strongly recommended.	2003-05-18
US	36800531	RSTSPUYPHH8DQ	1859843239	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	5	35	49	N	N	Truth revealed	By way of introduction, it needs to be stressed that Finkelstein by no means attempts to downplay or dismiss the importance of the holocaust. That Jews were subjected to unfathomable suffering in World War II is an irrefutable fact. Nonetheless, Finkelstein claims that Jewish suffering is being exploited by powerful Israeli lobbyists in the US. There is unequivocal evidence that Jewish \\"elites\\" exert enormous influence on the US government. According to Finkelstein, there are not many intellectuals who dare criticize Jews. Needless to say, any criticism directed at Jews automatically makes you an anti-semitist. When criticized, Jews frequently refer to Holocaust as a means to dismiss and reject constructive criticism. A few people dare criticize Jews as they might be accused of anti-semitism. In point of fact, Finkelstein claims that by using this insidious argument, powerful Jewish  lobbyists in the US avoid being criticized and condemned. Some reviewers reject the idea of powerful Jewish \\"elites\\" in the US but Finkelstein provides strong evidence in support of his claim. The fact that the US government protects Israel in light of international criticism of Israels belligerent war waging supports Finkelsteins theory. Needless to say, exploiting holocaust in this manner is an extremely malicious and calculated move. It is also an enormous disgrace for all the victims of the holocaust. Thus, Finkelsteins principal argument is that no one has the right to commit atrocities against innocent people and then attempt to justify these deeds by referring to ones past. Similar argument holds for murderers. The fact that many murderers were subjected to tremendous suffering in their childhood does not justify nor excuse their abominable actions. I strongly recommend this book to everyone who seeks a balanced and unbiased insight into the holocaust industry.	2003-05-13
US	36800531	R3BL99X78H5L64	155652482X	980026737	They Dare to Speak Out: People and Institutions Confront Israel's Lobby	Books	5	57	67	N	N	Invaluable	According to Mr. Findley, Israeli lobbyists are extremely powerful in the US. They control not only foreign politics of the US but also other vital domains within community. Findley claims that merely by analyzing foreign politics of the US can we understand the influence that Israeli lobbyists exert on the US government. Given the fact that Israel is the greatest recipient of the US financial aid, this fact alone corroborates Findleys assertion. According to Findley, there is unequivocal evidence that the US government gives Israel unconditional support despite Israels constant violations of human rights. Even the fact that Israel has atomic bomb does not seem to disturb the US government but then again why would it, when it was sponsored by US money. In fact, Findley holds that Israel has been allowed to manufacture weapons of mass destruction under protection of the US. How else could we account for the fact that no inspector has ever been allowed to enter facilities in Israel, in which weapons of mass destructions had been produced? Findley further argues that the US has tacit agreements with Israel in which the two countries strive to control the Middle East and to prevent all Arab countries from producing weapons of mass destruction. Needless to say, Israel and the US are perfectly aware that this would create a balance in the conflict. Israel would no longer dare expel and kill innocent Palestinians whenever they wanted. I highly recommend this extremely well researched book to people who dare speak out and question western media, which is extremely biased and unjust. Then again, why would not it be when all larger media companies are controlled by Israeli lobbyists.	2003-05-04
US	36800531	RHUSDC1X8E1UV	0896086011	729088466	Fateful Triangle: The United States, Israel, and the Palestinians (Updated Edition) (South End Press Classics Series)	Books	5	48	79	N	N	Israel is a rogue state	According to Chomsky and Said, there is unequivocal evidence that Israel is a rogue state. This book contains a thorough scrutiny of the US foreign politics. Chomsky claims that Israeli lobbyists in the US are highly powerful. Even though the US government strongly denies that it is being controlled by the Israeli lobbyists, evidence irrefutably shows that these lobbyists run the foreign politics of the US. How else does one explain that the US government never criticizes Israel's belligerent war waging? Moreover, why does not the US government send inspectors to Israel for disarmament, when it is a well known fact that Israel possesses atomic bomb? Instead, the US government sends inspectors to countries that allegedly have weapons of mass destruction, when in fact their claims have never been corroborated. In addition, the US government never condemns daily killings of innocent Palestinians. Chomsky further asserts that Israel is the greatest recipient of the US financial aid. Why does the US support an oppressive government that constantly violates human rights? According to Chomsky, it is because powerful Israeli lobbyists in the US allow for this to proceed. Chomsky's assertion that the US foreign politics is extremely unjust and flawed has been confirmed in a number of cases, which for the purpose of this review cannot be mentioned here. I could not agree more with Chomsky when he explicitly claims that foreign politics must be based on an equal treatment of all countries, but above all on justice, the importance of which cannot be overstressed. Without justice, there will never be peace and stability in the world. As Chomsky puts it, punishing certain regimes while protecting and aiding others that are equally, if not more, oppressive and belligerent is extremely unfair and totally unacceptable. The world needs justice and equality for all, irrespective of religion, race and ethnic affiliation. As it stands today, however, justice does not hold for all. <BR>I highly recommend this meticulously researched masterpiece to those who want an unbiased and balanced view of the tragic situation in the Middle East. Chomsky and Said brilliantly dissect anomalous and insidious strategic interests of the US foreign politics, which, as has been shown, is primarily based on injustice.	2003-05-03
US	36800531	RG39F3IENCG5H	0838447252	502549498	The Grammar Book: An ESL/EFL Teacher's Course, Second Edition	Books	5	72	76	N	N	Lucid and comprehensive	I recently purchased this book and I can sincerely say that THE GRAMMAR BOOK is a well-written and well-structured book. Written primarily for ESL/EFL teachers as well as students, it contains every imaginable aspect of english grammar. Mastering english grammar has never been easier, even though I am not implying that it will not require a tremendous amount of effort on your side to master the advanced elements of grammar. None the less, as with everything else in life, being really good at something takes hard work and perseverance. THE GRAMMAR BOOK will dramatically improve your grammatical skills. Marianne Celce-Murcia uses simple terminology in her book in order to facilitate comprehension of difficult grammatical concepts. Even though the book is comprehensive, it nevertheless is lucid and accessible. Practising but especially prospective ESL/EFL teachers should find this book highly useful. Furthermore, advanced students of english as a foreign/second language should benefit from this book. Thus I strongly recommend THE GRAMMAR BOOK to prospective ESL/EFL teachers and advanced students of english language. In my view, this is not a book for beginners. Those who are rather unfamiliar with basic concepts of english grammar should purchase a book called FUNDAMENTALS OF ENGLISH GRAMMAR by Azar.	2003-02-05
US	36800531	R3QLPP9NZCCTND	0679758909	421298531	Covering Islam: How the Media and the Experts Determine How We See the Rest of the World	Books	5	19	30	N	N	Parochialism and Islamophobia	Having lived in Sweden for ten years, I frequently meet people who are highly suspicious of Moslems. Needless to say, this unwarranted suspicion is primarily based on preconceived ideas, ignorance as well as parochialism. Swedish media often distort and misrepresent the facts in order to misinform and deceive the public. This is achieved by the media's subtle yet insidious allusions, which attempt to link Islam to terrorism and belligerence. Moreover, I have come across many Swedes who associate the oppression of women with Islam. Every time I meet a prejudiced person, I try to explain to him that Islam teaches piety, tolerance and equality among people of different races and religious convictions. Further, women are not considered inferior nor subordinate to men in Islam. Contrary to the popular belief in the West, Islam does not sanction torture of women who have been accused of adultery or infidelity. People who commmit these heinous crimes against women should be treated as individuals; the fact that they happen to be Moslems is completely irrelevant. These extremely atavistic and ignorant individuals wittingly misinterpret the Quaran so that their subjective beliefs are in accordance with the teachings of Quaran. However, the western media constantly attempt to link the oppression of women to Islam, which as we have seen is based on a deliberate distortion of the given facts. Also, the media almost exclusively use the word \\"terrorist\\" in conjunction with the word \\"Moslem\\". Attempting to establish a false connection between terrorism and Islam may in fact be detrimental and counter-productive for several reasons. First, it creates unnecessary suspicion but also tension between the members of Moslem community and Christians. Second, it amplifies and fosters the false conceptions of Islam in schools, labor market etc. Teaching people to be suspicious and fearful of Moslems on clearly false grounds is wrong and unacceptable. What people think has always been unimportant to me but it is difficult to remain indifferent when you are constantly subjected to derogatory and preposterous remarks about your religious conviction. Paradoxically it is often believed that westerners are very open minded and tolerant of other religions and races and surely many are. None the less it may come as a surprise to some that the intellectual communities are more prejudiced and islamophobic than the general population. Crucially, westerners fail to realize the fact that Moslems should not be viewed as a homogenous group; it would be a gross oversimplification and overgeneralization. Geographical and social differences must be taken into account before even attempting to view Moslems as a homegenous entity. There are large differences among individuals within the Moslem community, but this is common knowledge. Educated westerners should know this without my telling them; yet they continue to remain prejudiced and intolerant especially of Islam. This is a paradox as the primary objective of educating people is to obliterate prejudice and parochialism and to promote tolerance and open-mindedness. In this respect, western societies have failed. Thus the media in the west are biased, intolerant and anti-Islamic. Said's book should help explain why Islamophobia pervades our societies. Strongly recommended!	2003-01-26
US	36800531	R4VMTPUJQ0W4Z	0521498686	52686256	Advanced Grammar in Use With answers	Books	5	54	54	N	N	Excellent!	Improving your grammatical skills may be very important for several reasons, one of which is to foster your overall language competence. The primary strength of this book is the fact it cotains both lucid explanations and numerous exercises to check your comprehension. In order to ensure understanding, simple explanations of rather advanced elements of grammar have been provided. By the time you master this book, you will have dramatically improved your grammatical skills. I guarantee that! Are you unsure when to use the past perfect vs past simple? What about the proper use of auxiliaries and modal verbs? Pronouns and prepositions? Gerunds and participles? Word order? Definitely a valuable book.	2003-01-22
US	36800531	RRCS9X4D19590	0521431468	978937533	The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Words are not enough...	Dealing with virtually every essential aspect of English grammar, this book will probably achieve a special status at universities worldwide. Never have I seen such a splendid achievement in english studies before! Containing a well-researched and thorough account of all grammatical structures, this book can be used both as a complete reference as well as a meticulous elaboration and analysis of english grammar. I own a great number of well-written english grammar books but this book surpasses all of them in every aspect. Not only because it is very comprehensive and meticulous but also because it assumes a different approach to english grammar. Even though the book has 1300 pages, you will discover how easy it is to find whatever you may be looking for. Further, upon locating the target information, you will learn that the structure of the book facilitates reading and comprehension. Also, unnecessary terminology has been removed from the book in order to ascertain understanding. Needless to say, every serious english student should own this book. Using the word masterpiece to describe this book will not suffice. See for yourself!	2003-01-20
US	36800531	R3K5FFDN5394UX	1928653111	581549793	The Sword of the Prophet: Islam; History, Theology, Impact on the World	Books	1	26	161	N	N	Oversimplified and biased	This book contains an oversimplification and misinterpretation of the given facts. According to Trifkovic, Islam teaches violence, intolerance, parochialism, belligerent behavior, subordination of women etc. Nothing could be further from the truth. Teaching principally piety and understanding, the Quaran contains the following messages to the followers:<BR>1. Islam does NOT endorse killing of innocent people.<BR>2. Murder is justifiable only in self-defence<BR>3. Piety, tolerance, empathy and understanding between people of different races and religious convictions characterize Islam.<BR>4. The Quaran does NOT sanction torture of the women who are accused of adultery and/or infidelity. Lunatics who commit these heinous deeds to women should automatically be removed from this planet.<BR>5. Women are not considered inferior and/or subordinate to men. <BR>6. Helping the poor and the needy is of vital importance. <BR>7. Understanding the implications and the consequences of what it feels to be hungry and thirsty will help Moslems to gain an important insight into the situation of the poor and the needy.<BR>8. In case of a divorce, it is the liability of the ex-husband to provide his ex-wife with financial support in order that she can make it financially until she finds a suitable job.<BR>9. Selfishness is considered a great sin whereas compassion is a virtue.<BR>10. The individual is expected to inhibit his egotistical desires and needs. Further, it is imperative that every individual actively strive to foster collectivism and the survival of his fellow beings.  <BR>11. Children are supposed to take care of their parents when they grow so old that they are unable to take care of themselves.<BR>Please check the Quaran for corroboration of these irrefutable facts. Do I need say more?	2002-12-23
US	36800531	R15Z3EYGYUMEZW	0814755615	998728796	Bosnia: A Short History	Books	5	7	13	N	N	An important insight into the history of Bosnia	Being a Bosnian, I find this book highly valuable and unusually accurate. As my fellow Bosnian Adnan Mesic pointed out in his review, this is a very accurate and comprehensive account of Bosnian history. I agree with Adnan that it is a shame that the most lucid and most importantly unbiased book was written by an American. Malcolm divulges in his book major historical events which may have contributed to the war in Bosnia. It is clear that Malcolm had conducted a meticulous research before he completed this book; this is highly evident from the great number of references which are included. All in all, this is an indispensable reference that will provide an important insight into the history of Bosnia. Strongly recommended.	2002-12-16
US	36800531	R1754BRSLK5SR0	0521472164	935107942	Grammar for English Language Teachers: With Exercises and a Key	Books	5	49	55	N	N	A comprehensive and lucid reference	As is evident from the book's title, this book is intended for practising and prospective teachers. Its simple structure enables the teacher to teach grammar lucidly and effectively. Every chapter features an analysis of common grammatical difficulties that students encounter when studying grammar. This advantage will help you identify the difficulties and accordingly reveal efficient ways to help students deal with troublesome points of grammar. <BR>In the following, I will account for the chief characteristics of this book:<BR>1. a very simple structure,<BR>2. a thorough analysis of complex sentence structures,<BR>3. the identification of typical grammatical difficulties,<BR>4. its methodological and pedagogical structure,<BR>5. its simple terminology,<BR>6. it is comprehensive and lucid<BR>7. it will help teacher to choose the most effective method to teach grammar.<BR>The above-mentioned features should help you decide if this is the book you need! In my opinion, this is the only book you need to become a competent english teacher.	2002-12-11
US	36800531	RUGYH5TQPH6IF	0007102011	707138887	Collins Cobuild English Dictionary for Advanced Learners: Major New Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent	This is without doubt the best English dictionary on the market. In fact, this book is the only reference you may need to enhance and improve your vocabulary. I would like to stress though that the book is intended primarily for advanced students of english language. I own a great number of dictionaries but none of them is nearly as good as this one. The greatest strength of this dictionary is the improved structure that facilitates retrieval of the target word. Moreover, the dictionary provides valuable examples as to how to use the words in various contexts. This feature will help you choose the correct word in any given context. I strongly recommend this book to all learners of english language, but especially to the advanced students!	2002-12-03
US	36800531	R3SU6WH2V4PH77	0226020452	321521668	The Bridge on the Drina (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	1	14	66	N	N	Myopic and biased	This is not a masterpiece, this is a book that contains misinformation and cunning propaganda. Andric's main aim is to depict Muslims as archaic, primitive and intransigent. In my view, Andric is prejudiced, biased and intolerant. However, the book's literary value remains relatively high but the fact that bigotry pervades the entire book seriously undermines the book as a whole. Irrefutably, sweeping generalizations and preconceived ideas characterize the book. His subtle yet highly insidious misconceptions of the Turks are evident throughout the book. These points should be kept in mind before reading this book. Some reviewers have asserted that Andric's historical account helps explain the causes of the Bosnian war. This assertion is fallacious, baised and naive. Basically, the message that Andric attempts to convey to the reader is that Muslims are evil, barbaric, atavistic and intractable. The question that comes to mind is why was Andric awarded a prize when he was prejudiced, biased and cunning? Parochialism characterizes the entire book. It seems that books that criticize Islam are highly popular and valuable.	2002-11-29
US	36800531	RQ51UYBIMXYLR	1892123231	867868284	Grammar Book for You And I (Oops Me): All the Grammar You Need to Succeed in Life (Capital Ideas)	Books	5	59	62	N	N	Excellent	For many years I have been searching for a well written and well structured book of English grammar but only in vain. I have analyzed a great number of grammar books but none of them had met my expectations. Until now! Good's book is not only well written, it is also simple, lucid and comprehensive. Throughout the entire book, the author gives valuable and helpful advice to the reader as to how to avoid common grammatical errors. Each section is carefully and pedagogically structured to facilitate understanding of the key concepts of english grammar. As is well known, pronouns can cause difficulties to unexperienced users of english grammar. However, Good provides a clear and simple explanation which will eliminate all doubts and answer all questions pertaining to cases of pronouns. Furthermore, some people are not sure when to employ adjectives versus adverbs but Good reveals simple rules and guidelines that will help clarify this aspect of grammar. In addition, this book will also help you identify as well as differentiate between highly important elements of the english grammar such as transitive versus intransitive verbs, direct vs indirect objects and independent vs subordinate clauses. The final section of the book highlights common pitfalls and serious grammatical blunders. Subsequently, you will not only learn how to avoid serious grammatical errors, you will also learn how to rectify them. Needless to say, effective communication relies heavily on adequate and sufficient grammatical skills. This book will provide you with necessary skills that will optimize your communicative competence. In addition to this book, I highly recommend a book called Word Smart by Princeton Review. This book will enhance and enlarge your vocabulary in a way you never thought possible. To my mind, the above mentioned books are the only books you need to communicate effectively in english language. I would like to stress though that mastering english grammar will require an additional book, which is titled Analyzing English Grammar. This is truly an excellent book. In conclusion, Edward Good's book is invaluable. No other book on the market is nearly as good as this one. I strongly recommend this book to all people who want to improve their grammatical skills.	2002-11-25
US	36800531	R11MPGTVGGCADD	041593267X	31679745	Machinery of Death: The Reality of America's Death Penalty Regime	Books	1	3	51	N	N	Vague and ambiguous	In my opinion, heinous criminal acts must be severely punished. Crimes such as culpable homicide, rape and child molestation deserve the harshest punishment. It is vitally important that the punishment fits the crime. It follows then that crimes of gruesome nature deserve capital punishment whereas misdemeanour should result in mild punishment. <BR>Irrefutably, the primary purpose of a given sentence is to deter people from committing criminal acts. Therefore, it is crucial that prisons act as a deterrant; otherwise the judicial system is purposeless and superfluous. Paradoxically, prisons in Sweden do not deter prospective malefactors; instead they encourage some individuals to commit crimes. This is because prisons in Sweden have frequently been likened to hotels and this is not an exaggeration. This is a fact of life. To my mind, it is preposterous to assume that these modern and sophisticated prisons manage to deter people from committing criminal acts. <BR>A criminal has to fear incarceration, otherwise there is no point in maintaining the judicial system. Capital punishment is considered to be inhumane and ineffective. What we need to ask ourselves instead is are felons humane. Do they repent their atrocious acts? Admittedly, some felons deserve clemency due to mental disorders that may have impaired their ability to know right from wrong. Nevertheless, they should be sentenced to life without parole. <BR>As is well known, many convicted criminals commit additional crimes upon release. Thus, given the fact that a great number of felons relapse into criminality indicates that there are serious flaws in our judicial system. There is no simple solution to this problem. However, there is no doubt that legislators need to be held accountable for making ineffective laws. Most importantly, prisons have to act as a deterrant. Vehement felons who have been convicted of odious deeds should either be imprisoned for life or sentenced to death. Abolitionists would argue that people do not commit abhorrent crimes unless they are deranged. This is true in some cases but we must not generalize. Admittedly, some dangerous malefactors had been subjected to maltreatment in childhood which later led to development of severe mental disorder in adolescence. Nonetheless, traumatic childhood does not justify psychopathy, it merely explains it. In sum, this book provides weak arguments against capital punishment.	2002-11-20
US	36800531	R3KMQICF0F4HW7	0896086119	761007518	Rogue States: The Rule of Force in World Affairs	Books	5	25	32	N	N	Irrefutably the best book on the subject matter	Next to Edward Said, Noam Chomsky is without doubt the most intelligent and proficient writer in the world. It goes without saying that his writing is honest and revealing. In this book, Chomsky unveils that the state that constantly violates international laws is the United States. U.S.A. simply ignores the regulations of the international community by interferring with various world conflicts. Chomsky states that the United States gives its support to oppressive countries in order to create an imbalance in the world. This is evident in the fact that the United States supports Israel even though it is widely acknowledged that Isreal is an oppressor in the Palestinian conflict.  It is indisputable that Israel is superior to Palestinians in every aspect, let alone when it comes to arms. Most people have seen on TV that the Palestinians fight for their freedom by throwing stones while Israel's army uses sophisticated weapons in order to annihilate as many Palestinians as possible. This is extremely unjust but the United States largely ignores these facts. Moreover, Chomsky claims in his book that even though the UN imposes certain restrictions on the use of force to put an end to international conflicts, the United States blatantly ignores these rules and acts on its own. Most people are unaware of the fact that the United States has been accused of state terrorism by the Haag tribunal. It is clear that the United States frequently abuses its immense power and imposes its values on other countries. I highly recommend this book to intelligent people who dare question the imposed truths that are presented in the western medias.	2002-10-29
US	36800531	RIEGLODXY7PXY	039397622X	544341313	Cognition: Exploring the Science of the Mind	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An in-depth analysis of Cognitive Psychology	This extraordinarily well-written book provides an invaluable introduction into the field of cognitive psychology. It is written in a clear, lucid and accessible way that facilitates reading and comprehension. Cognitive psychology is extremely interesting and insightful. It deals with concepts like memory, recognition, problem-solving and perception. Reisberg is a very proficient and eloquent author that supports the theories with empirical evidence and numerous experiments which clearly show the methods that psychologists use in their studies. This is without doubt the most meticulous, comprehensive and at the same time clear book on the subject matter.	2002-10-03
US	36800531	RCRHM8QA704KC	1590080017	786309475	Silent No More: Confronting America's False Images of Islam	Books	5	27	38	N	N	Invaluable	This is the first book that reveals the truth about Islam. Findley dares question the false images of Islam in the US and manages to present an accurate view of Muslims. Westerners who criticize Islam are clearly oblivious to these indisputable facts:<BR>1. Islam does not propagate violence, let alone killing of innocent people.<BR>2. Murder is justified only in self-defence!<BR>3. Women are not considered inferior or subordinate to men.<BR>4. Islam calls for peace, tolerance, piety and understanding.<br />5. Quaran clearly encourages its adherents to help the old and those in need.<BR>Subsequently, those who commit atrocious acts cannot be called Muslim fundamentalist. We can label malefactors who kill innocent people terrorists but NOT Muslim fundamentalists. Terrorists who claim that they are killing innocent people in the name of God are extremely ignorant and naive. How can you kill someone in the name of God when the religion explicitly prohibits and strongly condemns slaughter of innocent people? Undeniably, this is a contradiction in terms. The media in the West knowingly misrepresent and distort the facts in order to malign the Islam. Contrary to a popular belief in the West, the Quaran does not endorse torture of women accused of adultery! This is an artifice of the westerners. Individuals who commit these heinous deeds against women are committing a great sin according to Islam; check Quaran for corroboration. Admittedly, certain aspects of Quaran may appear obsolete and awkward to some people but Islam does not sanction violence, this is irrefutable! Thus, in light of these facts, is it right to claim that Islam incites its followers to kill their fellow human beings? Arguably, this is the best book on the subject matter, it is well-written, well-argued and most importantly unbiased.	2002-08-23
US	36800531	R2OMPXBBWJFVMD	053452155X	719808474	Death Work: A Study of the Modern Execution Process (Wadsworth Contemporary Issues in Crime and Justice)	Books	1	6	30	N	N	Vague arguments!	The author of this book is making an attempt to convince the reader that capital punishment is inhumane, gruesome and unjustified. Paradoxically, Johnson makes no mention of all innocent people who have been brutally murdered, raped, molested or tortured. Instead, he endeavors to make the reader feel sorry for psychopaths on death row. We are talking about individuals who have murdered, raped, molested and tortured innocent people. They have forfeited their legal right to live in our society. As is well-known, psychopaths are usually cunning, insidious, charming, manipulative, callous and can easily deceive their psychiatrists. It has been documented that malefactors frequently relapse into criminality upon release and commit additional crimes of gruesome nature. I wonder if abolitionists take into consideration the following aspects: What if they or their children were the next potential victim of a released convict? If people had known that they were the next potential victim of a \\"rehabilitated\\" murderer, I am not sure that they would oppose the death penalty. Abolitionists seem to think that as long as they do not get in a way of a murderer then they are against capital punishment. This way of reasoning is highly egotistical! However, this aspect has to be taken into consideration when forming an opinion on the subject matter. It is not possible to be objective about this issue. Dangerous criminals shoud either be incarcerated for life or sentenced to death. This is the only way to ensure maximum security for the public. We must not allow murderers, rapists and child molestors to commit additional crimes. In conclusion, this book presents vague arguments against the death penalty. It is ambiguous and has many shortcomings.	2002-08-11
US	36800531	R2ZVH2ETVXM75E	0195122860	894520670	The Death Penalty in America: Current Controversies (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	1	4	50	N	N	Fallacious Arguments	Undoubtedly, felons who commit heinous crimes deserve to be sentenced to death. There is no argument there. In my view, child molestors, murderers and rapists have forfeited their legal right to live in our society. It should be stressed that a gruesome deed must not be justified under any circusmtances; if a malefactor has had a difficult childhood this cannot excuse let alone justify his actions. This is irrefutable! As is well-known, psychopaths are usually cunning, insidious, manipulative, narcissistic and charming. Moreover, they are unable to feel guilt and remorse. Rehabilitation is effective in some cases but in most cases it does not work. Notorious felons are known to relapse into criminality upon release. Psychopaths can often deceive their psychiatrists because they are manipulative and shrewd. Therefore, capital punishment is the most effective punishment next to life sentence.	2002-08-10
US	36800531	R247J87POKD8IM	0890966389	961262590	Genocide in Bosnia: The Policy of "Ethnic Cleansing" (Eastern European Studies, No. 1)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Invaluable!	This book reveals the gruesome atrocities that were committed in Bosnia during the Bosnian war. Many people assume that it was a civil war, when in fact it was a genocide. It has been corroborated that Serbians started the war in an attempt to annihilate non-Serbs and create a \\"Great Serbia\\", comprising of serbs only. Other reviewers who have criticized the book are clearly oblivious to the following facts: of the 300.000 victims in Bosnia- 85% were Muslims; 90% of all war crimes in Bosnia were committed by Serbs ( Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic, Arkan and numerous others). On that account, we can conclude that Serbs are the perpetrators and Muslims are the victims. This is a fact of life. I highly recommend this book to people who want to know the truth about the war in Bosnia.	2002-08-07
US	36800531	R2L9DS5MGRO46Y	1883982367	720028560	After the Fall: Srebrenica Survivors in St. Louis	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Outstanding!	By way of introduction, I would like to say that this is an extraordinarily well-written book that divulges the gruesome atrocities that took place in my hometown. Srebrenica, a so called UN &quot;SAFE AREA&quot;, was under the constant attack of the Serbian army, during the Bosnian war. UN's primary task was to protect civilians from Serbian soldiers but they failed. Innocent Bosnian civilians were betrayed by the International community and left for dead. UN officials and others in charge appeared to be indifferent to the immense suffering of the Bosnian people. As is well-known, one of the worst massacres after the World War 2 took place in Srebrenica. In my view, the international community must be held accountable for these heinous deeds. UN's indifference and passivity cost at least 10.000 innocent lives! This is extremely unjust and it makes me enraged and bewildered! This is truly a splendid book that I highly recommend to all people who want to gain an insight into horrendous plights of Bosnian people!	2002-07-29
US	36800531	R3N9WQAUQQV665	0684819031	256559702	Slaughterhouse: Bosnia and the Failure of the West	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A Masterpiece!	By way of introduction, I would like to state that this book contains virtually every essential element of the Bosnian tragedy. The author reveals the sheer indifference of the United Nations to the slaughter of a great number of innocent Bosnian civilians. As is well-known, one of the worst massacres after the World War 2 took place in Srebrenica before the eyes of the whole world! Admittedly, the United Nations failed to undertake necessary measures to prevent the bloodshed. In spite of the fact that Srebrenica was under UN &quot;protection&quot;, eight thousand innocent Bosnian civilians had been killed!! Even today, no one knows whether or not these people are alive. However, it is most likely that these helpless people were brutally murdered. Indisputably, the war in Bosnia was not considered a priority by the international community; on that acccount many innocent civilians were killed. This book divulges that the international community is highly accountable for the Bosnian tragedy and the fact that approximately 300.000 people were killed!	2002-07-26
US	36800531	R24RCOFHMTNR8F	1888363495	847698617	Media Control: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Pamphlet)	Books	5	21	30	N	N	A thorough scrutiny of Media's pervasive role in society!	Initially, I would like to say that this is without doubt the most intelligent book on the subject matter! It reveals the insidious methods commonly employed by the Media. Accordingly, these methods are used to manipulate and mislead the public's mind, especially in areas concerning foreign politics, domestic issues including racial discrimination and unjust distribution of wealth! People have to face the indisputable fact that the Media is controlled by the government. Unedeniably, the media frequently misrepresent the facts in order to protect the government from public discontent! I highly recommend this book to everyone who wants to understand how the media control the public's mind. Buy this book immediately! Noam Chomsky is a master!	2002-07-24
US	36800531	R3QPBGVSX80W6W	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	5	47	63	N	N	An Important Insight into Terrorism and its Causes!	By way of introduction, I would like to say that Chomsky is one of the most intelligent and proficient writers in the world. Most importantly, he always assumes an objective view to international conflicts. In this book, Chomsky accounts for the events that led to September 11 attack. It should be stressed that Noam by no means attempts to justify the atrocious attack on World Trade Center. Instead, he seeks to explain why a great number of third world countries view the US as an enemy. Killing innocent people must not be justified under any circumstances; this is irrefutable! Nonetheless, understanding the underlying causes may be of great importance in forming an objective opinion of the conflict. Undeniably, there are numerous aspects of the US foreign politics that are erronous, unjust, debetable and ambiguous! Noam Chomsky provides an invaluable insight into US involvement in international conflicts. The greatest strength of this book is clear and lucid arguments that are supported by empirical evidence! Buy this book today; it is without doubt the most intelligent and elaborate book on the subject matter!	2002-07-14
US	36800531	R1LCU4QIBTYXVS	0205305687	508989997	Analyzing English Grammar (3rd Edition)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	An In-depth Analysis of English Grammar!	This is a very useful tool especially for prospective English teachers. It discusses various complex grammatical points and sheds light on syntax. A word of warning: this is not a traditional grammar book! However, if you intend to specialize in English grammar, this is the ultimate reference for you. Teachers should be able to incorporate certain aspects into their teaching! If you seek to master the English grammar, buy this book this instant. Nonetheless, if you need an introductory book to English grammar, do not buy this book.	2002-05-24
US	36800531	RQTBDOOTHZBUI	0060185759	116892054	Roget's International Thesaurus, Indexed, Sixth Edition Revised & Updated	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Invaluable reference for language studies!	This extraordinarily well-written book helps you find the synonyms, antonyms etc. Indisputably, when writing an essay it is very important to apply a varied vocabulary. Monotonous vocabulary tends to lower the quality of the overall impression of the essay! On that account, it is crucial to use synonyms in order to enhance and further improve your report. The best part is the price. If you seek to enlarge and enhance your communicative and writing skills, this book is the ultimate reference for you!	2002-05-15
US	36800531	R73Y49PSAJLDJ	0684842998	850796975	Narcissism	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Interesting and Informative!	This is a very interesting book that deals with a dangerous and destructive disorder. Lowen reveals that contrary to popular belief, narcissists do not love themselves, hence the title of the book Denial of the True Self! Instead, narcissists choose not to show their true selves as they fear rejection. Lowen writes very well and he manages to capture the reader's attention from the very beginning to the end. Not only is this book informative but also interesting and important! The fact that Lowen accounts for his therapy sessions where he treats narcissists makes the reading even more interesting. The section on how individuals compensate for the feelings of inferiority is extremely interesting and it provides an adequate explanation as to why some individuals behave aggressively toward other people. Lowen divulges that people who appear to be strong, untouchable and self-important are in fact weak and apprehesive. I would like to recommend this book to all people who wish to understand narcissistic personality disorder. Buy this book today! You will enjoy reading every single page of it.	2002-04-26
US	36800531	RUUDUJ5HJZJUI	0764553933	478333953	Vocabulary For Dummies	Books	5	77	88	N	N	Enhance and Enlarge your Vocabulary!	This is a book for those who seek to improve and enlarge their vocabulary. Communicating effectively is key to success in all aspects of life, especially in business, teaching etc. On that account, Rozakis attempts to teach us words that are essential for effective conversations. She also provides clear examples as to how to use the words in everyday situations. If you want to express yourself clearly, this is an invaluable reference for you. Do not hesitate, buy this book this instant. You will not be disappointed!	2002-04-25
US	36800531	R2IWUO1HX2EUIA	0838419925	584395760	Teaching English as a Second or Foreign Language, 3rd Edition	Books	5	42	47	N	N	An invaluable reference for teachers!	This is a must both for current and prospective teachers! It is well-written and well structured. It encompasses effective methods and guidelines that will optimize teaching. The book is divided in chapters which facilitates reading. To exemplify, if you are not a native speaker of english language and you intend to teach english as a foreign language, there is a special section only for you. This has helped me a lot and it will help you too, believe me! This is a comprehensive yet lucid account of the most effective approaches to teaching. I highly recommend this book especially to prospective teachers!	2002-04-25
US	36800531	RAIJZQOIZVZK3	0764553224	752056426	English Grammar For Dummies	Books	5	106	124	N	N	An Invaluable Reference for Language Studies!	This unusually well-written book encompasses virtually all aspects of English grammar. It is well structured, strict to the point, meticulous and most importantly easy to use! It sheds lights on most common pitfalls and errors in grammar usage. People who experience difficulties with english grammar should find this book extremely useful. To my mind, this is a must for all students who seek to improve their language skills and to become more effective and proficient communicators and writers! Buy this book today!	2002-04-20
US	36800531	R2G85T9SJZRJFD	0679749861	967695947	Race Matters	Books	3	6	13	N	N	Astute and provocative!	This is truly a great book that deals with an important and current issue. It sheds light on racism, discrimination, prejudice, stereotypes and scapegoating. Undeniably, Cornel West is a very eloquent and competent author. Moreover, he is very intelligent and persuasive. Most importantly, he provides strong arguments in favor of his viewpoints. However, even though I find this book illuminating and meticulous, there are, nevertheless, shortcomings. West's arguments are sometimes fallacious and ambiguous. To exemplify, West claims that black people become criminals mainly due to socioeconomic factors. According to West, poverty and social factors almost always lead to criminal behavior- learned helplessness hypothesis! This assertion has serious flaws. It is well-known that not all underprivileged people become criminals; this is irrefutable! Consequently, West fails to explain why some black individuals persist in face of numerous adversities, while others actively choose to become criminals. The fact that he does not take individual differences into consideration seriously undermines his work. Instead, West frequently makes sweeping generalizations. It is now widely accepted that overgeneralizations contribute to racial disparities. What I am implying here is that every individual is responsible for his actions. On that account, we all have the right to make active choices in life. Poverty and racial discrimination do not justify criminality. Indisputably, I can actively choose not to become a criminal and I am rest assured that this holds for all of us. West states in his book that majority of white people are biased and inimically disposed toward black people. However, West does not acknowledge that there are black people who are prejudiced too. Dividing people into categories based on one's race fosters racism and prejudice. Moreover, blaming the entire white race for the plights of black people is preposterous. It promotes hatred and suspicion. In spite of these criticisms, however, this book is interesting, informative and thought-provoking! Finally, West's difficult and elegant terminology makes him one of the best writers in English. This is incontestable.	2002-04-11
US	36800531	R12P0OXZ3FAIFZ	0471353396	266474967	Personality: Theory and Research	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An Integrated Approach to Personality.	This extraordinarily well-written book encompasses an integrated approach to personality and its complexity. Needless to say, the field of personality is extremely intricate and dynamic. However, Pervin manages to provide a comprehensive yet lucid account of the most important approaches to personality. The strength of this book is that it integrates all the major perspectives. What is more, every chapter features key words, summaries and most importantly contributions and criticisms of each theory. The book is well structured and written in a way that captures the reader's attention. Thus, it is interesting, informative and extremely useful. Moreover, every theory gives its explanation to psychopathology and its possible causes. It should however be pointed out that this book is intended primarily for academic purposes. Nevertheless, I strongly recommend this book to all people who want to gain an insight into psychology at its best! After all, I think it is momentous to gain an insight into why some people develop maladaptive behavioral patterns and show systematic errors in thinking. Finally, this book attempts to answer the most difficult question pertaining to this dynamic field, namely: what factors contribute to the development of personality? Pervin clearly shows that interplay between biological and environmental determinants is necessary to provide an adequate explanation of personality. In my view, a theory that fails to intertwine both biological predispositions and environmental determinants with respect to personality is a flawed theory. Furthermore, a theory that cannot be disproved is a poor theory. In conclusion, this is truly an excellent book that integrates both descriptive and explanatory elements.	2002-04-02
US	36800531	R3DG56C9FY0E9R	1573927015	368578256	Antisocial Behavior: Personality Disorders from Hostility to Homicide	Books	5	40	45	N	N	A lucid and comprehensive study of deviant behavior!	Antisocial behavior is an extraordinarily well-written book. It reveals the psychological nature of the psychopaths. Moreover, Wolman makes an attempt to explain what factors give rise to antisocial behavior. Admittedly, he does this very well. Psychopaths are described as being indifferent, cunning, immoral, impulsive and insidious individuals. What is more, they usually show no signs of remorse for their gruesome deeds. The implication here is that they totally lack compassion for their fellow beings. Wolman unveils that psychopaths are narcissistic individuals; they have a tendency to think that they are entitled to other people's things and that they deserve to be loved. The above mentioned traits are thought to be characteristic of highly maladaptive individuals. However, Wolman also points to environmental determinants as possible causes of deviant behavior. Parents and teachers can sometimes contribute to the rise of antisocial and sociopathic behavior. Wolman emphasizes that hyper-permissive parents do not teach their children the importance of morality and consequently their children will fail to distinguish right from wrong. According to Wolman, the primary purpose of morality is to inhibit inborn instincts and impulses. Furthermore, the way that parents rear their children can be crucial. Parental rejection can adversely affect their children's self-confidence and self-reliance. Undeniably, these children will feel neglected and unwanted if their parents are not affectionate and considerate. Needless to say, abusive parents foster deviant behavior in myriad ways. Children of abusive parents are usually very aggressive, hostile and tend to hate their parents. These children cannot however behave aggressively toward their parents as they fear that they might retaliate. Instead, they behave aggressively toward weak people who are unable to fight back. In conclusion, I highly recommend this book to all students of psychology. It is very interesting and informative.	2002-03-28
US	36800531	R1ERKC6B5FNW5N	0813335337	781263163	Endgame: The Betrayal And Fall Of Srebrenica, Europe's Worst Massacre Since World War II	Books	5	3	8	N	N	The Truth	This is an outstanding book that reveals the gruesome atrocities that were committed by Bosnian Serbs. It sheds light on the worst massacre in Europe after the World War 2. The United Nations, along with the rest of the world, are accountable for the fall of Srebrenica. I am originally from Srebrenica but I am currently living in Sweden. This book is extremely important because it provides an objective account. David Rohde presents overwhelming evidence in support of his account of the massacre. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to know the truth about the massacre in Srebrenica.	2002-03-28
