US	36881957	R1543L4T6BZ5LX	0830827323	733825469	C. S. Lewis's Dangerous Idea: In Defense of the Argument from Reason	Books	5	41	46	N	N	Thought provoking argument against naturalism	Although oft neglected in many philosophical circles, the writings of C.S. Lewis still have something to teach us about reason, human nature, and human existence.  Reppert defends Lewis' argument against naturalism which simply states that mankind's reasoning abilities cannot be trusted if they are a product of Darwinian evolution;  In other words, if the human brain is nothing more than a complex conglomeration of atoms and energy, then we have no reason to trust our reasoning abilities because it is the product of nothing more than a chaotic collision of atoms.  Furthermore, since natural selection is completely blind in it's selective process evolution does not necessarily favor an advanced reasoning capacity.  Natural selection could have just as easily favored a mutation that makes us perceive the world contrary to the way it is if this facilitated the survival of human beings.  Since we cannot trust reason itself under the naturalist/Darwinian paradigm then the scientific enterprise becomes totally superfluous and meaningless.<br />Although short, only 132 pages, I must admit Reppert's arguments are quite through and engaging.  The only possible defense the Darwinist has against this argument is to say that advanced reasoning abilities favor man's survival and would thus be selected by nature.  Yet, this argument doesn't necessarily have to be true and only begs the question since assumes what it is attempting to establish.  In a discussion I recently had with an individual who studied psyhcolinguistics, I employed this argument against a materialist argument in favor of mind equating with brain.  When I discussed Lewis' argument the individual I was talking with conceeded the point that relying on reason in the naturalist paradigm was tenuous and could not be relied upon.<br />This compact book also delves into the issue of dualism vs. materialism, or the argument over mind is synonomous with brain or whether mind and brain are dichotomous entities.  I personally favor the dualist view since it meshes with my views as a theist and safeguards human integrity.  The materialist view must necessarily deny free will since our brains are ruled by natural laws and therefore the atoms in the brain operate according to fixed laws that can be studied and accurately predicted.  If free will is denied, then this has serious implications for our society in areas such as law, education, and religion.  Although Reppert's arguments for dualism are not as deep as they could be, he does an admirable job arguing in favor of the dualist position.  For further study in favor of the dualist position I would recommend reading J.P. Moreland and William Lane Craig.ally favor the dualist view since it meshes with my views as a theist and safeguards human integrity.  The materialist view must necessarily deny free will since our brains are ruled by natural laws and therefore the atoms in the brain operate according to fixed laws that can be studied and accurately predicted.  If free will is denied, then this has serious implications for our society in areas such as law, education, and religion.  Although Reppert's arguments for dualism are not as deep as they could be, he does an admirable job arguing in favor of the dualist position.  For further study in favor of the dualist position I would recommend reading J.P. Moreland and William Lane Craig.	2004-06-10
US	36881957	R3HID4F2K2LII6	159403043X	317649445	By Design: Science and the Search for God	Books	5	16	22	N	N	An excellent book	When I started reading this book I was a little disappointed because it focused on the development of the Intelligent Design(ID) movement, and did not cover much of the science behind Intelligent Design.  Nevertheless, after finishing the book I was very surprised and pleased with the content of the book.  Beginning with the Darwinian centennial of 1959, Witham begins by showing how science exuded confidence and hubris over the fact that science was apparently on the verge of solving the mystery of life's origins.  Yet, even before the centennial celebration cracks in Darwinian theory were already beginning to appear;  From Francis Crick's discovery of the complex double helix structure of DNA, to new findings in molecular biology, to the anthropic principle in astronomy, new discoveries seem to be casting doubt on the principle that we live in a purposeless universe and that man is nothing more than a cosmic accident residing in a backwater location in the universe.  Moreover, Witham covers the growth and development of the ID movement from the Templeton foundation to various academic establishments attempting to break into mainstream science.  All of the major players are mentioned including: Behe, Johnson, Dembski, Polkinhorne and others.  It is quite sad that these men remain on the outside looking in in regards to the scientific establishment because they have a lot to say and raise some interesting questions.  Yet, as Witham notes the scientific establishment gets to make it's own rules and disregard anyone who doesn't abide by their rules, and the Darwinian majority seems to be wed to Darwinian theory because they are afraid or unwilling to consider purposeful design.  They are like the medieval astronomers who continued to accept Ptolemaic astronomy even though it had developed into a great monster.  Hopefully, the ID movement will continue to press on and make inroads into mainstream science where their theories and ideas can be evaluated critically and not rejected outright as fundamentalist creationism.rejected outright as fundamentalist creationism.	2004-05-17
US	36881957	R1M8HAD0HCYANB	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	5	26	43	N	N	One of Johnson's best!	I read Johnson's book Defeating Darwinism about 3 years ago, and was not impressed with his arguments against evolution in that book.  Yet, after reading this book I have become a fan of Johnson's critiques of Darwinian theory.  As a law student myself, I have come to appreciate Johnson's literary and argumentative techniques because he writes from the perspective not of a scientist, but as a lawyer examining the evidence to see which case is the strongest.  Some criticize Johnson for not being a scientist, and in fact that was the criticism I levied against him three years ago, but as a lawyer Johnson is able to do something no scientist can do;  Namely, examine the facts as they are and root out assumptions that individuals hold which help them interpret the facts in a certain way.<br />This is exactly what Johnson does in this book as he examines the evidence for and against Darwinian evolution.  Johnson correctly notes that a vast majority of the scientific establishment have embraced the philosophical system of materialistic atheism as the logical partner of Darwinian theory.  Therefore, there is no purpose to the universe's existence or any purpose for mankind's existence but everything is the result of law and chance.  This type of worldview is antithetical to a religious worldview and therefore religion and science often do clash because these two philosophical systems are at odds with each other.<br />In addition, Johnson notes that the theory of evolution is slowly collapsing under the weight of new scientific discoveries.  Sure, in Darwin's day the lack of fossil of evidence wasn't perceived as a problem because people believed the fossils were yet undiscovered, but the fossil discoveries of the last 150 years have only reinforced the fact the Darwinian evolution contradicts the fossil evidence.  Yes, in Darwin's day the cell was believed to be a simple structure consisiting mainly of water and a nucleus, but now molecular biology has discovered that the cell is extremely complex, more complex than any man made machine, and believing such a structure could be created by random, pointless processes is absurd.  These are just a few of the ideas brought forth in this book and although Johnson doesn't do much to damage the scientific validity of evolution he servely damages the philosophical foundations of evolution and that is damage enough.cell is extremely complex, more complex than any man made machine, and believing such a structure could be created by random, pointless processes is absurd.  These are just a few of the ideas brought forth in this book and although Johnson doesn't do much to damage the scientific validity of evolution he servely damages the philosophical foundations of evolution and that is damage enough.	2004-05-17
US	36881957	R1E1HTJQ3C13CC	091756152X	760519181	Evolution: A Theory In Crisis	Books	5	15	33	N	N	An excellent critique of orthodox darwinism	Michael Denton marshals a vast array of evidence against the theory of Darwinian evolution and is very convincing in the process.  Denton begins by chronicling the exploits of Charles Darwin and shows how his views were formed during his expeditionary journey aboard the HMS Beagle.  Then, he shows how the theory came to fruition and how it was either accepted or rejected by the scientists of Darwin's day.  Finally, Denton shows how the theory itself went from a theory to an established fact within the scientific community within the span of 100 years.<br />Although the first half of this book is somewhat philosophical and concept heavy the information in those chapters is very enlightening and proves that there was solid reasoning in the mid 19th century for rejecting Darwin's thesis.  Men like Cuiver and Agassiz disagreed with Darwin's hypothesis and pointed to the discontinuity of nature as proof that continuous evolution could not be true.  Furthermore, taxonomists and those following the heir arching systems of Linnaeus perceived that nature was ordered more along the lines of archetypes and patterns and that progressive evolution was antithetical to this idea.  Instead of viewing groups of animals in parent/daughter relationships, they viewed animal relationships as sister groups where each specimen of a group conformed to the characteristics of the representative archetype of the group.  This is still how most taxonomists view relationships between animal groups today and it is in stark contrast to the evolutionary model.<br />In the latter half of the book Denton lists all of the observational and scientific evidence that argues against evolution.  First, the fossil record is discontinuous and offers no evidence that animals gradually evolved from one species into another.  Yes, Darwin knew these links were vital to his theory and he and his followers believed they would be discovered in time.  Yet, over 120 years later no links have been found and the new fossils that have been discovered paint a picture that is even more discontinuous than the one recognized in Darwin's day.  Moreover, work done with selective breeding in domestic animals has illustrated there is a limit that is reached in achieving new characteristics over time.  So yes natural selection and mutation can produce new species that are slightly different from the previous one like in birds and dogs, but it cannot explain how an amphibian could become a reptile.  Finally, the most convincing and damaging evidence comes from the realm of molecular biology.  The comparative analysis done between animal proteins shows that some species are not more intermediate than others.  In other words amphibians are just as far removed from reptiles as they are from mammals.  Yet, the evolutionary paradigm argues that amphibians evolved into reptiles which evolved into mammals, so amphibians should show more similarity to reptiles than mammals.  Most damaging of all the complexity and ingenuity of the cell.  To believe this complex and highly organized microscopic factory could be created by random processes borders on outright absurdity if not blind faith.<br />The last few chapters are very interesting because Denton illustrates that the evolutionary paradigm is in the same position as the geocentric model of medieval astronomy.  It's adherents maintain the status quo because an alternate theory has not been presented even though the theory itself has become a monster.  It was only until the rival theory of the heliocentric solar system became scientifically more sound and explained the problems inherent in geocentrism that the model became firmly established.  Likewise, the evolutionary paradigm is besieged by problems, but no rival theory has arisen to take it's place and explain the inconsistencies.  Therefore, the scientific establishment will retain the theory because it's the only one that offers an explanation for the diversity of life.<br />On a side not, this book in no way endorses creationism.  Even though the author is expressing his dissatisfaction and doubt over the evolutionary paradigm, this doesn't mean this book is a blaring endorsement for creationism.  Sure, several elements of design and guidance are argued for and this book may strengthen one's faith and commitment to intelligent design, but I don't think that is the primary purpose of this book.  The author's primary intent is to catalogue all the evidence against evolution and critique the theory and in this endeavor he does exceedingly well.s book in no way endorses creationism.  Even though the author is expressing his dissatisfaction and doubt over the evolutionary paradigm, this doesn't mean this book is a blaring endorsement for creationism.  Sure, several elements of design and guidance are argued for and this book may strengthen one's faith and commitment to intelligent design, but I don't think that is the primary purpose of this book.  The author's primary intent is to catalogue all the evidence against evolution and critique the theory and in this endeavor he does exceedingly well.	2004-05-02
US	36881957	R35H8FLBJVVO4R	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	2	45	90	N	N	Not enough to invalidate intelligent design	Richard Dawkins does an excellent job of arguing in favor of the naturalistic evolutionary paradigm in this particular book.  I appreciated how he explained what evolution was by showing what it was not.  First, he argues that evolution is not saltational or wide reaching, but that evolution takes place in small incremental steps over a vast period of time.  Cumulative selection of small mutational changes over a period of time will permit one species to evolve into another.  I enjoyed reading the chapter where he speaks about the bio morphs and shows how gradual changes occurring over and over again can create quite different entities than what was started with.<br />Nevertheless, I believe the weaknesses inherent in this book outweighed the strengths.  First, Dawkins' explanation for the evolution of the complexity of the eye was unconvincing.  The problem I had with his argument was that the idea that cumulative selection could account for the eye seems a bit absurd.  Minor generational variations could not account for the development of the eye because such changes would necessarily involve changes in other areas.  A better functioning eye would require a slightly more complex brain, which would in turn require a slightly different cranial structure, which would in turn result in a slightly modulated physiology.  We are now dealing with multiple minor mutations to facilitate a better functioning eye and this cannot be explained under the rubric of cumulative selection.  Also, when addressing the evolution of the bat and it's flight capabilities and sonar mechanism, Dawkins' reasoning is faulty.  Dawkins argues that bat aviation was acquired gradually as a series of ancestors grew flaps of skin that made gliding ever more easy and then eventually ended up resulting in flight capabilities.  Yet, this is so unlikely because the physiological adaptations necessary for gliding are completely different than those needed for flight.  The bat ancestor would have gone through a complex series of evolutionary steps for gliding, and then the whole process would have been undone and started over so that flight could be achieved.  In this case we are not speaking of an uninterrupted sequence of evolutionary changes that leads to flight, but a series of changes that need to be done away with so a new goal can be achieved.  Space does not permit me to list other things I disagreed with, but these are just a few of the things I noticed.  Again, I enjoyed reading this book but the arguments presented therein did nothing to convince me to abandon my belief in intelligent design and embrace Darwinian motifs.rough a complex series of evolutionary steps for gliding, and then the whole process would have been undone and started over so that flight could be achieved.  In this case we are not speaking of an uninterrupted sequence of evolutionary changes that leads to flight, but a series of changes that need to be done away with so a new goal can be achieved.  Space does not permit me to list other things I disagreed with, but these are just a few of the things I noticed.  Again, I enjoyed reading this book but the arguments presented therein did nothing to convince me to abandon my belief in intelligent design and embrace Darwinian motifs.	2004-05-02
US	36881957	RG5XP3SWY6N8P	0609807986	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	1	60	105	N	N	Poor, shoddy, and downright dishonest scholarship	Freke and Gandy approach this project with no scholarly credentials and present a totally baseless thesis.  For starters their assertion that Jesus of Nazareth was a fictional person modeled after the likes of Dionysus and Mithra predicated upon the legend of the Jewish Messiah is completely unsubstantiated and a worthless argument.  Besides the New Testament accounts written a generation after Jesus' ministry, we also possess the writings of Josephus, Tacitus, and Pliny which attest to Jesus' historicity and validate the fact that he did exist.  Even the most liberal New Testament scholars associated with the Jesus Seminar(Crossan, Borg, etc.) believe Jesus existed and that there is enough historical documentation to validate this fact, they just believe the New Testament accounts are theological documents and not purely historical.  If Freke and Gandy were to present their thesis in front of liberal and orthodox New Testament scholars they would be laughed out of the auditorium;  Especially since they base their Jesus didn't exist assumption on outdated 19th century research.<br />Now to handle the central argument of the book;  The claim that Jesus was just a Jewish version of the dying/rising god myth.  They first compare Jesus to Mithras an Iranian based deity who became popular in the Roman empire.  Here's the problem, Freke and Gandy assume Iranian Mithraism and Roman Mithraism were the same religions.  In fact, the latest scholarship has revealed they are not and are vastly different systems of religion that just share the name of the god in question.  Freke and Gandy use Cumont and pre Cumont sources as their primary source material and it was Cumont who erroneously assumed that Iranian and Roman Mithraism were the same, when in fact they are not.  The Iranian Mithras did predate Christ but he never slew the cosmic bull, he wasn't crucified, he never promised his followers eternal life, and he didn't do a host of other things that Jesus did.  Mithras was just the offspring of one of the gods in the polytheistic pantheon and he wasn't particularly important.<br />Here are some of the other facts Freke and Gandy conveniently ignore.  Scenes depicting the birth of Mithras do not show him being born of a virgin but out of a rock, and he is a fully formed adult.  The shepherds don't come to worship him they stumble upon his birth by chance and assist him in removing himself from the rock.  His supposed 12 disciples represent the 12 phases of the procession of the zodiac.  Mithras wasn't crucified to atone for sins, the Roman Mithras(the one which arose contemporaneously or after Christianity) killed the cosmic bull for world peace not for an atonement for sin.  Mithras didn't die and there is absolutely no historical motif for his resurrection so wildly asserted by Freke and Gandy.  And the grand claim that Mithras said his followers must eat his flesh and drink his blood comes not from some systematic treatise describing Mithraic belief but a medieval text in which Zarathustra speaks.  Freke and Gandy are grasping at straws by trying to assert that the Iranian Mithras spoke these words when they have absolutely NO source material to substantiate this claim.<br />Now for the great Dionysus connection.  First, the Eleusis mysteries were not celebrated in honor of Dionysus, but Demeter and Dionysus.  It was not Dionysus who promised initiates eternal life, but the goddess Demeter.  The extant Greek sources indicate that this was a ceremony primarily in honor of Demeter and not for Dionysus.  This is nothing more than misleading deception on the part of the authors to construct their amusing thesis.  The rituals celebrated commemorated the arrival of Spring and the renewal of living things;  Demeter as the goddess of grain restored the crops, while Dionysus as the god of wine restored the vine.  The elements of bread and wine that comprised the entheogen in the ceremony signified both Demeter and Dionysus, not just Dionysus as the dying and resurrected god who grants eternal life as the authors claim.  Moreover, Dionysus was not crucified to atone for sin he was a dying and rising god in that he represented the restoration of life each year.  Looking at the statues of Dionysus one can see that he is depicted as an adolescent, adult and old man because he ages each year, dies, and then is reborn anew.  The Dionysus myth has it's roots in the mother goddess and consort myth where the goddess gives birth to her consort each year, mates with him, consumes him, and then gives birth to him anew to renew life each year.  Dionysus played the role of the consort while several other mythical figures represented the goddess(Demeter, Persephone, Ariadne, etc).  This is totally different from the Christian claim that Christ died once, then rose again for all time to defeat death and sin.  There are many myths surrounding the birth of Dionysus:  One has him born of Semele and Zeus and no one knows for sure whether Semele was a virgin, but the other myth has Dionysus born of Zeus and Persephone(the goddess who was married to Hades, hardly virginal), and when the Olympians kill Dionysus, Zeus has him reborn by planting an embryo in his leg and carrying the child to term.<br />These are just a few of the differences and inconsistencies present in this work.  With more time and more effort I could provide much more, but this suffices to show how this work is poor and unscholarly.  If anyone actually takes the time to research the latest scholarly material on Mithras and Dionysus one will find that the few similarities are outweighed by the vast amount of differences between these mythical gods and Jesus Christ.s the dying and resurrected god who grants eternal life as the authors claim.  Moreover, Dionysus was not crucified to atone for sin he was a dying and rising god in that he represented the restoration of life each year.  Looking at the statues of Dionysus one can see that he is depicted as an adolescent, adult and old man because he ages each year, dies, and then is reborn anew.  The Dionysus myth has it's roots in the mother goddess and consort myth where the goddess gives birth to her consort each year, mates with him, consumes him, and then gives birth to him anew to renew life each year.  Dionysus played the role of the consort while several other mythical figures represented the goddess(Demeter, Persephone, Ariadne, etc).  This is totally different from the Christian claim that Christ died once, then rose again for all time to defeat death and sin.  There are many myths surrounding the birth of Dionysus:  One has him born of Semele and Zeus and no one knows for sure whether Semele was a virgin, but the other myth has Dionysus born of Zeus and Persephone(the goddess who was married to Hades, hardly virginal), and when the Olympians kill Dionysus, Zeus has him reborn by planting an embryo in his leg and carrying the child to term.<br />These are just a few of the differences and inconsistencies present in this work.  With more time and more effort I could provide much more, but this suffices to show how this work is poor and unscholarly.  If anyone actually takes the time to research the latest scholarly material on Mithras and Dionysus one will find that the few similarities are outweighed by the vast amount of differences between these mythical gods and Jesus Christ.	2004-04-18
US	36881957	RO67UGOBXUHXZ	068486309X	862019174	The FIFTH MIRACLE: The Search for the Origin and Meaning of Life	Books	3	20	52	N	N	fails to answer the big question.	Davis titled his book the Search for the Origin and Meaning of Life, but he never really answers this fundamental question.  Sure, science hasn't answered this, and unlike Davies' optimistic assertion that they will accomplish this feat someday, I don't believe science will.  If approached from the viewpoint that life arose spontaneously from the haphazard collision of random molecules by the direction of chance then the mystery will never be solved.  The process that produced life was so improbable that it can't be reproduced in the laboratory and was truly an event that took place against all odds.  Understanding that anything with a value of 1 10^50 is an impossibility, and that the conditions for life to occur would need a much bigger number, attempting to solve this mystery is a waste of time.<br />Nevertheless, if life is the product of a set of laws written into the universe that favor the creation of life then the search is not futile.  Nevertheless, this opens up the possibility for design arguments and the need for a programmer to write such a code;  This is a development that I welcome as a Christian, but one that is scorned by other scientists.  Some of this attitude comes through at times in Davies book when he states on pg. 31, &quot;However, it is the job of science to solve mysteries without recourse to divine intervention.&quot;  This assertion is patently false.  It is the job of science to explain observable phenomena with a natural explantion if the results are verifiable and make more sense than a mystical argument.  It could very well be that the deity who created the universe was a very competent programmer who designed the creation to operate under very specific natural laws, and one of those laws is for the universe to create life under the right conditions.  This is just a possibility, but one that should not be eliminated simply because the establishment thinks it should.<br />In the end this book fails to answer the question that matters most:  If life did arise by natural means, then how did it do so?  Davies offers absolutely no new insight into this perplexing question.  In fact, many of his arguments seem to point against random, senseless and purposless creation.  Believing that all the right circumstances could fall into place is just as much grounded in faith as is the idea of a Divine creator.  The only new arguments presented by this book were those that speculated that life began underground and not at the surface.  Yet, this raises a whole host of questions.  RNA or DNA could not develop inside the earth because the tremendous heat and pressure would destroy the volatile molecules.  Therefore, one is forced to conclude the cell came first and this gave the RNA and DNA the sufficient shelter to form and replicate.  But this just brings us back the chicken-egg paradox and doesn't answer anything since the cell cannot survive efficiently without the help of DNA, RNA, and catalytic enzymes.  Stating that the first simple cell was a more crude device which operated on a more crude scale only begs the question and is meaningless conjecture without evidence.most:  If life did arise by natural means, then how did it do so?  Davies offers absolutely no new insight into this perplexing question.  In fact, many of his arguments seem to point against random, senseless and purposless creation.  Believing that all the right circumstances could fall into place is just as much grounded in faith as is the idea of a Divine creator.  The only new arguments presented by this book were those that speculated that life began underground and not at the surface.  Yet, this raises a whole host of questions.  RNA or DNA could not develop inside the earth because the tremendous heat and pressure would destroy the volatile molecules.  Therefore, one is forced to conclude the cell came first and this gave the RNA and DNA the sufficient shelter to form and replicate.  But this just brings us back the chicken-egg paradox and doesn't answer anything since the cell cannot survive efficiently without the help of DNA, RNA, and catalytic enzymes.  Stating that the first simple cell was a more crude device which operated on a more crude scale only begs the question and is meaningless conjecture without evidence.	2004-04-17
US	36881957	R2SMDE1TYKOKUN	1563380390	712659398	The Gnostic Paul: Gnostic Exegesis of the Pauline Letters	Books	4	102	105	N	N	An alternate opinion of Paul	After reading several other book written by Pagels concerning gnosticism and gnostic beliefs, I have to say that this offering is definitely her finest.  First, Pagels doesn't polemicize the issue by claiming that Paul was a gnostic or that he was strictly orthodox, but instead shows how 2nd century exegetes, both gnostic and orthodox, understood Paul.  Furthermore, one of the great strengths of this work resides in the fact that Pagels allows the gnostic followers to speak for themselves by citing frequently from newly discovered gnostic texts.  Instead of telling us what she believes the gnostics considered true she permits the gnostics to tell us themselves.<br />The book itself is broken is broken up into seven chapters and each chapter deals with an individual Pauline epistle.  Interestingly enough, the gnostics, like the orthodox, also accepted Colossians, Ephesians, and Hebrews as Pauline, but they did reject the pastorals epistles.  The first two chapters deal with Romans and I Corinthians and are by far the best sections of the book.  Instead of interpreting the book literally as their orthodox counterparts did, the gnostics read the epistle to the Romans allegorically.  Therefore, what was perceived as a treatise commenting on Jewish/Gentile relations in the church by the orthodox, the gnostics believed the text spoke about pneumatic/psychic relations.  They believed Paul used such terminology secretly and that only the initiated believers could understand the real meaning behind the text.  Also, of great interest to the gnostics were passages stressing grace and faith in the life of the christian.  The gnostics utilized chapters 4 and 9 to stress that they themselves were saved totally by grace and the will of the Father;  There was nothing they could do to lose their status because they were children of the Father.<br />The other interesting chapter delves into I Corinthians and attempts to uncover the gnostic meaning of the text.  I thought Pagels brought up some excellent points that really seemed to strengthen the gnostic case.  First, chapter 2 was heavily valued by the gnostics because in it Paul talks about wisdom and knowledge and at times seems to buttress the gnostic case.  Later in chapter 15, Paul speaks of several things that the gnostics believed were absolutely damning to the orthodox case.  Paul says that flesh and blood and cannot inherit the kingdom of heaven, and that corruption cannot inherit incorruption.  This verse was used to condemn the idea of a physical bodily resurrection since Paul frankly states flesh and blood cannot inherit heaven.  Instead, the gnostics believed the resurrection consisted of an awakening from ignorance towards God.  Moreover, the idea of baptism for the dead 15:29 is something that has plagued orthodox scholars for over 20 centuries.  Yet, the gnostics easily handled this verse by saying that baptism for the dead meant gnostics being baptised in the place of psyhics for their eventual salvation.  Since it was the psychics who were dead, ignorant towards God, a pneumatic could be baptized in their stead and effect their awakening and journey into gnosis.  The rest of the chapters deal with the other epistles listed earlier, but most of what is discussed are themes that appear in these two chapters.<br />One thing I noted when reading this book was the striking similarity between some gnostic beliefs and the beliefs held by the Calvinist variety of Christianity.  Both groups stress man's deadness towards God and their inability to move towards God, both believe in divine election and reprobation, both believe that God's will is supreme in deciding who will be saved and who will be lost, and both believe in God's absolute sovereingty over His creation.  Moreover, both believed that since salvation was effected totally by God and was a result of His election, that a believer with a divine or new nature could not be lost.  These two groups even stress the same chapters ofScripture in their debates with their opponents.  Chapters such as Romans 9 and Ephesians 1 were favorites of the gnostics in their disputes with the orthodox, and they are not favorites of the Calvinist's in their current disputes with Arminians.  I wish I would have read this book earlier when I myself was struggling with the very same issues.Scripture in their debates with their opponents.  Chapters such as Romans 9 and Ephesians 1 were favorites of the gnostics in their disputes with the orthodox, and they are not favorites of the Calvinist's in their current disputes with Arminians.  I wish I would have read this book earlier when I myself was struggling with the very same issues.	2004-04-04
US	36881957	R1RFJ829BGXPJF	080105625X	792153437	Homosexuality and the Politics of Truth	Books	5	40	74	N	N	A well structured and convincing argument	Amidst all the political and social debates raging today, I believe Dr. Satinover is saying something that all of America needs to hear no matter what side of the debate you find yourself on.  I believe it is a dishonest and cheap tactic to levy charges of homophobia and bigotry against the people of faith who believe that homosexuality is wrong and abide by the consistent teachings of the Judeo-Christian worldview.  Satinover illustrates that it is possible to show compassion and kindness to homosexuals while at the same time not engaging in full-fledged acceptance of their lifestyle.  This is the Biblical mandate that all believers are called to and is the quintessential Christian call to \\"hate the sin, but love the sinner.\\"  Unfortunately, many in Christian fundamentalist circles have not heeded this call and are rather harsh and unforgiving when discussing this subject.<br />Satinover presents a convincing argument which states that homosexuality is a product of a myriad of factors including: genetics, intrauterine influences, environment, relationships, and personal choices.  To say that homosexuality is 100% genetic as many activist's claim is a false claim, and has not been substantiated by scientific evidence.  In fact, the meager scientific studies conducted on twins has illustrated that homosexuality cannot be genetic since in identical twin pairs the results are not 100% in either direction.  Nevertheless, it is also unfair and irresponsible to say that homosexuality is simply a choice one makes;  To venture in this direction is to make an equally disastrous and false claim as those made by the genetics camp.  Moreover, many of the arguments employed by gay activist groups are not scientific at all, but a product of circular reasoning.  Arguments such as, we say internal homophobia makes people not want to be homosexual, and people who do not want to be gay are that way because of internal homophobia.  Mr. Satinover's remarks that serious scientific research, removed from a political agenda, must be conducted to clarify and enlighten on this issue are very true indeed.<br />I believe all Christians should read this book so that they can understood the complexity and multi-faceted nature of the issue.  Likewise, I believe activist's from the opposite spectrum should read this book so that they might understand the Judeo-Christian rejoinder on this subject.  Of particular interest is Satinover's detailed analysis of the relationship between homosexuality and pedophilia.  As he notes, pedophilia is more common among heterosexuals since they comprise the vast majority of the population, but the behavior itself is more prevalent among homosexuals, who make up a much smaller sector of the populace.  Furthermore, the declassification of the paraphilia's as illnesses is the next logical step in the chain once homosexuality is normalized by the medical profession. Sadly, these steps are already being taken because of the efforts of activist groups such as NAMBLA(North American Man Boy Love Association).<br />To the critics who say that Dr. Satinover's research is outdated and new research has disproved his assertions, this claim is hardly true.  Examining the bibliography of this book, I found that 75% of Satinover's source material was dated from the 1980's and 1990's, hardly antiquated and irrelevant.  Furthermore, since Dr. Satinover wrote this book no one has conclusively found the gay gene, although many have claimed to do so and later been disproven.  As the doctor states, research uninfluenced by political agendas and activist desires needs to be conducted because only then will any real conclusive and comprehensive results be achieved.rch, removed from a political agenda, must be conducted to clarify and enlighten on this issue are very true indeed.<br />I believe all Christians should read this book so that they can understood the complexity and multi-faceted nature of the issue.  Likewise, I believe activist's from the opposite spectrum should read this book so that they might understand the Judeo-Christian rejoinder on this subject.  Of particular interest is Satinover's detailed analysis of the relationship between homosexuality and pedophilia.  As he notes, pedophilia is more common among heterosexuals since they comprise the vast majority of the population, but the behavior itself is more prevalent among homosexuals, who make up a much smaller sector of the populace.  Furthermore, the declassification of the paraphilia's as illnesses is the next logical step in the chain once homosexuality is normalized by the medical profession. Sadly, these steps are already being taken because of the efforts of activist groups such as NAMBLA(North American Man Boy Love Association).<br />To the critics who say that Dr. Satinover's research is outdated and new research has disproved his assertions, this claim is hardly true.  Examining the bibliography of this book, I found that 75% of Satinover's source material was dated from the 1980's and 1990's, hardly antiquated and irrelevant.  Furthermore, since Dr. Satinover wrote this book no one has conclusively found the gay gene, although many have claimed to do so and later been disproven.  As the doctor states, research uninfluenced by political agendas and activist desires needs to be conducted because only then will any real conclusive and comprehensive results be achieved.	2004-03-27
US	36881957	R1AOF1DXVBW5S5	1579180086	326171573	Not by Faith Alone: A Biblical Study of the Catholic Doctrine of Justification	Books	4	24	26	N	N	A thorough defense of Catholic doctrine	Of all the works dealing with the subject of justification, Sungenis' work is by far the most thorough and comprehensive book available.  Mr. Sungenis begins his defense of Catholic Tridentine soteriology by telling the reader what Catholic doctrine is not; This is accomplished by a devastating critique of Protestant sola fide theology.  Sungenis devotes the first three chapters to an explanation of justification and salvation in the writings of Paul and James, and Jesus' views as derived from the gospels.  Mr. Sungenis does an admirable job of dealing with the Pauline texts and is fair and accurate with the views of various Protestants, often commenting on the views of various famous Protestant scholars(Luther, Calvin, McGrath, Sproul, MacArthur, etc.).  Sungenis' main point is that Paul is opposed to works of the Law, or works which attempt to put God in one's debt so that God must honor those efforts with salvation.  Sungenis rightly points out that Paul's phraseology only disqualifies 'works of the Law' from salvation, and that Protestant arguments which somehow transform works of the Law into just works, are reading more into the text than is really there.  Works of the Law are performed under the system of law which is unforgiving and permanent, one infraction will disqualify you from salvation.  In contrast, works done under the auspices of grace are pleasing to God and God will reward those with eternal life.<br />After dealing with Paul, Sungenis delves into James' epistle and the gospels, and here is where his arguments seriously harm the Protestant viewpoint.  Sungenis convincingly illustrates that the context in James 2 is completely salvation oriented, and Protestant attempts to place this chapter in a proof/vindication of righteousness framework do serious injustices to the context of the chapter.  Sungenis' exegetical work dealing with Abraham's justification, his faith and obedience mentioned in Hebrews 11 referring to events in Genesis 12, and James' comparison between Rahab and Abraham all support the Catholic viewpoint and oppose the Protestant understanding.  Sungenis deals another blow to the Protestant view when he discusses Romans 4 and shows that Abraham had to be a genuine believer before Genesis 15, or Hebrews 11 is nonsense.  Finally, dealing with Jesus' teachings, again Sungenis convincingly argues that Jesus stressed the importance of works and that they would be the criterion upon which one's judgment was based.  Sungenis has beautifully melded the seemingly contradictory teachings of Paul, James, and Jesus into one cohesive unit, something no Protestant work on the subject attempts to do.<br />This book really shines in chapters 5 and 6 where Sungenis deals with the questions of imputed vs. imparted righteousness and the nature of justification.  He does tremendous damage to the Protestant idea of imputed righteousness by arguing that God cannot declare someone righteous who is not so because God only condemns on the basis of intrinsic quality.  Justification is transformative and internal and this is something some Reformed Protestants even admit, which Sungenis later illustrates.  Sungenis also notes that the Greek verb dikaioo although forensic in nature also carries with the connotation of making just, since verbs ending in oo mean to make whatever the action of the verb specifies.  In chapter 6 Sungenis argues that justification is a familial restoration and not a courtroom decree.  After being exposed to this view, I can't believe how thoroughly it permeates the Scriptures.  We are all wayward sons and daughters of God in need of restoration and Jesus' sacrifice placates the Father allowing us to return.  Nevertheless, if a child returns but becomes disobedient once again, he will turned over to the Law to be punished by it's exacting standards.  I think this framework does more justice to the biblical texts since God is by nature a Father, but is only a judge in relation to His creation, which is finite and not eternal.<br />Nevertheless, from an Eastern Orthodox perspective I did have some disagreements with Mr. Sungenis' conclusions.  First, the Orthodox understanding of justification is slightly different than the Catholic one, but the differences are minor.  Also, the arguments for purgatory I found to be quite weak.  The Orthodox have never insisted on the necessity of purgatory, but have always believed the doctrine was a thelogoumena of some theologians.  Finally, the Catholic view of original sin is really a foundation upon which the arguments of the book are founded, so the Orthodox have a slightly altered view since our take on original sin differs.  Overall, this is a well-researched and convincing book.hich is finite and not eternal.<br />Nevertheless, from an Eastern Orthodox perspective I did have some disagreements with Mr. Sungenis' conclusions.  First, the Orthodox understanding of justification is slightly different than the Catholic one, but the differences are minor.  Also, the arguments for purgatory I found to be quite weak.  The Orthodox have never insisted on the necessity of purgatory, but have always believed the doctrine was a thelogoumena of some theologians.  Finally, the Catholic view of original sin is really a foundation upon which the arguments of the book are founded, so the Orthodox have a slightly altered view since our take on original sin differs.  Overall, this is a well-researched and convincing book.	2004-03-26
US	36881957	R3VFNTKJRFSN8X	0802844421	966434721	Union with Christ: The New Finnish Interpretation of Luther	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A new interpretation of Luther	What is most fascinating about this book is the fact that deification or theosis becomes a crucial component of Luther's doctrine of justification.  For too long, the idea of theosis has remained obscure and unknown within Western Christianity, while it is an important piece of Eastern Orthodox theology.  Furthermore, this idea has it's roots in Patristic teaching and the idea itself is taught not only in the Scriptures, but in early Fathers such as Irenaeus, Origen, Athanasius, Chrysostom, and even Augustine.  The Finnish interpretation is fascinating because it argues that Luther had more in common with the Eastern theologian Gregory Palamas, then he did with Aquinas or Calvin.<br />The main thrust of the Finnish view is that Jesus Christ is actually present in faith.  This results in not just an extrinsic and forensic justification, the doctrine promulgated by the Reformers, but also results in an intrinsic renewal that actually makes the repentant sinner just.  Thus, the Finnish view teaches both extrinsic and intrinsic renewal at justification, and not the common reformation of extrinsic justification alone.  This both..and theology is basically the same teaching expounded by the early Fathers and is common in Patristic theology.<br />This understanding of justification corrects the later Lutheran teaching advocating only forensic justification and allows justification to be a gradual process, and not just a one time event.  In addition, sanctification and justification become more closely related and not two separate and distinct phenomena that do not relate with each other.  The common teaching of the Reformer's makes sanctification a result of justification and therefore one's works are only a product of one's justification, but not related to it.  The Finnish view allows for an interrelation between justification and sanctification that makes our works, the ones performed by Christ present in our faith, justifying.<br />This book is important because it opens up new avenues of communication between the Orthodox and the Lutherans and allows for fruitful ecumenical discussion.  Also, it will also be beneficial in the ecumenical dialogue between the Lutherans and the Catholic Church since theosis has not been completely ignored by the Church in the West.  The only problem I have with this book is that the Reformation doctrine of sola fide is not described in detail, and no one takes the time to explain how the Finnish view can still accomodate this teaching.  Overall, this is an excellent work and one I believe most Protestant's should take the time to read.ns up new avenues of communication between the Orthodox and the Lutherans and allows for fruitful ecumenical discussion.  Also, it will also be beneficial in the ecumenical dialogue between the Lutherans and the Catholic Church since theosis has not been completely ignored by the Church in the West.  The only problem I have with this book is that the Reformation doctrine of sola fide is not described in detail, and no one takes the time to explain how the Finnish view can still accomodate this teaching.  Overall, this is an excellent work and one I believe most Protestant's should take the time to read.	2004-03-02
US	36881957	R7JXWOWL8ZU0E	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An outstanding critique of American society	I have always enjoyed John Stossel's confrontational and in your face style of reporting;  It is refreshing to see that he has carried this style of investigative journalism over into the literary world.  Mr. Stossel began his career as a consumer advocate reporter who exposed scam artists and critiqued big business because of their supposed unfair practices.  Yet, everytime he would bring down another phony opportunity or reveal rip-off artists, the government would congratulate him and then step in and establish another government beauracracy that only made matters worse.  Eventually, this led Mr. Stossel to the conclusion that although it may be unpredictable and a bit scary, the system of free market competition beats government controlled monopolies any day.<br />I really loved this book because of the humor and the way each chapter is presented.  One of the most striking yet humurous aspects of the book are the dialogues between Mr. Stossel and various citizens and government officials.  I really enjoyed reading the chapter on Lawyers, and this is coming from someone who is a law student.  Without a doubt, lawyers are running this country and those operating within the legal profession wield a tremendous amount of power and have relative little checks on their activities.  His chapters on the benefits of deregulation in the markets is outstanding, and his chapter on chemicals and the supposed dangers they pose is enlightening and funny.<br />I know a lot of people probably won't like this book, but before they give it a really low rating, please do us all a favor and disprove Mr. Stossel's research and argumenation.  After reading this book I am afraid to think what government regulated health care will look like if the politicians ever get it passed.  Also, it frightens me to guess what our airline security system is going to be like in another five years.  After reading this book, I agree with Mr. Stossel that the private sector can do better in many of the areas where government tries to regulate.  The government wastes billions of dollars doing what the private sector could do cheaper, better, and more efficiently.areas where government tries to regulate.  The government wastes billions of dollars doing what the private sector could do cheaper, better, and more efficiently.	2004-02-02
US	36881957	R1RSYK0F5S8YV	0800628276	64665521	The Climax of the Covenant: Christ and the Law in Pauline Theology	Books	5	62	67	N	N	How would a first century Jew understand Christ and the Law?	I would have to argue that Wright is closer than most to helping us understand this confusing issue.  Wright's main thesis is that Jesus Christ, the Jewish Messiah, fulfilled what the Law could not do, thereby fulfilling and abolishing the Law in one fell swoop.  Wright also argues that Paul's understanding of the Old Testament would have been covenental, and that the two important issues that shaped Paul's theology and belief system were monotheism and the corporate covenant.  First, Wright argues that to Paul the title Christ would not carry with it the titular implications that Westerners associate with the name, but designated Jesus as the Jewish Messiah.  Thus, Jesus was the Messiah and embodied and completed what national Israel could not.  Paul's conversion allowed him to radically reinterpret all of the Old Testament passages that spoke of Israel's renewal and reconversion to God as passages that spoke of the death and resurrection and Christ.  To Paul this was the defining moment in God's salvific plan when He accomplished through Christ, what the Law and national Israel could not.<br />Furthermore, Wright argues that the new community formed by the work of Christ and the agency of the Spirit, fulfills the obligation of the Law through Christ.  This community is corporate and is centered in the Messiah King of the new community, and this King is none other than Jesus Himself.  Wright argues that just as the ancient Israelites had an actual share in the stock of the king and were connected to him through tribal bond and ethnicity, so too do Christians belong to the Messiah through membership in the new community.<br />In the second half of the book Wright deals with the question of the place and function of the Law within this new community and what purpose it served if it could not in fact give life to those who adhered to it.  First, Wright, like Paul, unequivocally argues that the Law is good, and is holy and just because it is sent from God and was sent for a particular purpose.  The Law is not evil because it was not the Law which urges us to sin, but the forces of sin and death.  The Law, in both Eden and Sinai, was exactly what sin and death needed to seize mankind and grant them the opportunity to sin.  Therefore, the Law could not fulfill it's primary purpose which was to bestow life on those who possessed it and cherished it.  Nevertheless, this was all part of God's plan since, as Wright argues, the Law was the measure which enabled God to concentrate sin in one place, namely the nation of Israel, and then deal decisively with the problem through the Messiah.  Therefore, Christ fulfilled what the Law could not accomplish, but at the same time He abolished the Law since the Law no longer needed to strive to give life to those who sought it.  That life had now been bestowed in Christ, and those in Christ through membership in His community, have fulfilled the obligations of the Law and the Law is no longer a burden.<br />Of particular interest was Wright's view of the Israel issue.  Paul saw that the Jews clung to Law as the distinguishing marker that separated them from the rest of humanity and made them privy to God's blessings.  Yet, all the Law could provide for the Jews was the promised curse of Deuteronomy, but the Jews did not understand this and believed the Torah was the one thing that allowed them to claim God's blessings.  Paul argued that with the death and resurrection of Jesus the Law no longer provided the ethnic privilege to the Jews that it once had, since the promises made to Abraham had now been fulfilled and membership in the family of God was decided upon faith, and not works of the Torah.  Finally, Wright's exegesis of Romans 11:26-27 is interesting and controversial to say the least, but very well argued for and convincing.  I can't say enough about this book since the research, argumentation, and scholarhip are all top-notch.for a particular purpose.  The Law is not evil because it was not the Law which urges us to sin, but the forces of sin and death.  The Law, in both Eden and Sinai, was exactly what sin and death needed to seize mankind and grant them the opportunity to sin.  Therefore, the Law could not fulfill it's primary purpose which was to bestow life on those who possessed it and cherished it.  Nevertheless, this was all part of God's plan since, as Wright argues, the Law was the measure which enabled God to concentrate sin in one place, namely the nation of Israel, and then deal decisively with the problem through the Messiah.  Therefore, Christ fulfilled what the Law could not accomplish, but at the same time He abolished the Law since the Law no longer needed to strive to give life to those who sought it.  That life had now been bestowed in Christ, and those in Christ through membership in His community, have fulfilled the obligations of the Law and the Law is no longer a burden.<br />Of particular interest was Wright's view of the Israel issue.  Paul saw that the Jews clung to Law as the distinguishing marker that separated them from the rest of humanity and made them privy to God's blessings.  Yet, all the Law could provide for the Jews was the promised curse of Deuteronomy, but the Jews did not understand this and believed the Torah was the one thing that allowed them to claim God's blessings.  Paul argued that with the death and resurrection of Jesus the Law no longer provided the ethnic privilege to the Jews that it once had, since the promises made to Abraham had now been fulfilled and membership in the family of God was decided upon faith, and not works of the Torah.  Finally, Wright's exegesis of Romans 11:26-27 is interesting and controversial to say the least, but very well argued for and convincing.  I can't say enough about this book since the research, argumentation, and scholarhip are all top-notch.	2004-01-16
US	36881957	R3JBD1P6JH35PT	1579102735	149747170	God's Strategy in Human History:	Books	5	39	40	N	N	One of my favorite books!	Forster and Marston have delivered a stellar book that attempts to present an exegetical and Scriptural framework for the content presented in the book.  Instead of beginning from a set of deductive theological assumptions and then attempting to support that system from Scripture, Forster and Marston examine Scripture and attempt to build their case directly from the text.  The authors unabashedly admit that their views are very similar to those of Arminian and Weslyan traditions, but they state in the beginning of the book that they do not want to be labeled with these names, but want to construct a theology that is in line with the teachings of the first 300 years of Christianity.  Anyone who reads their appendix will come to understand that the teachings presented in this book were the orthodox consensus of the early Church for the first 300 years, and that it was Augustine who introduced serious deviations into the mainstream orthodox Christianity of his time.<br />Forster and Marston begin by describing the battle that is being waged between God and the spiritual forces that oppose Him. They examine the book of Job and see how this relates to the overall struggle.  Then the authors examine the 9th chapter of Romans to see if this book is dealing with election and individual destinies, or God's actions within human history.  The authors do an excellent job of arguing for their opinion that this chapter is speaking about God's involvement in human history and it deals with God's choosing of one nation or individual over another nation or individual to accomplish His purpose.  Other sections of interest in this book are the sections on foreknowledge and predestination and the chapters on faith and works.  The section on faith and works was particularly interesting because it relies on much of the teaching of the new perspective which has shed much light on how a 1st century Palestinian Jew would have approached Scriptural issues.  The research, argumenation, and exegesis in this book are solid so every chapter is excellent, but the ones mentioned above were two of my favorites.<br />There really aren't too many weaknesses I could find in this book.  There were a lot of little printing mistakes so that was a bit annoying.  Furthermore, there were times when the authors dealt with the teachings and writings of Open Theist's and seemed to be a bit sympathetic with them, but never said they agreed wholeheartedly with them.  This group of scholars has come under attack from people from every perspective within the Christian Church, so it would have been nice to know definitively where the authors stand.  Also, some of the arguments against Reformed teaching were too emotional, but that does not detract from the fact that there are also many biblical arguments against their teachings.  Anyone interested in reading a scholarly study that defends free-will, God's love and desire for all to be saved, and explains how God interacts in the affairs of men, then this is the book to read.  The Appendix with quotes from the early Church Fathers defending free will, and illustrating how Augustine's teaching was a 5th century invention is also invaluable.  Without a doubt this is one of the best books available that discusses such issues.xegesis in this book are solid so every chapter is excellent, but the ones mentioned above were two of my favorites.<br />There really aren't too many weaknesses I could find in this book.  There were a lot of little printing mistakes so that was a bit annoying.  Furthermore, there were times when the authors dealt with the teachings and writings of Open Theist's and seemed to be a bit sympathetic with them, but never said they agreed wholeheartedly with them.  This group of scholars has come under attack from people from every perspective within the Christian Church, so it would have been nice to know definitively where the authors stand.  Also, some of the arguments against Reformed teaching were too emotional, but that does not detract from the fact that there are also many biblical arguments against their teachings.  Anyone interested in reading a scholarly study that defends free-will, God's love and desire for all to be saved, and explains how God interacts in the affairs of men, then this is the book to read.  The Appendix with quotes from the early Church Fathers defending free will, and illustrating how Augustine's teaching was a 5th century invention is also invaluable.  Without a doubt this is one of the best books available that discusses such issues.	2004-01-04
US	36881957	REX5FVD6564WG	1579103162	171035293	The Only Wise God: The Compatibility of Divine Foreknowledge & Human Freedom	Books	5	50	50	N	N	A great primer on middle knowledge	William Lane Craig is one of Christianity's brightest philosopher and apologist.  In The Only Wise God, Craig tackles the confounding and apprarent contradiction between freedom and God's foreknowledge.  So, if God always knew that I was going to read The Only Wise God, then I could not do otherwise since God's foreknowledge necessitated my action.  Yet, Craig argues that this isn't the case.  Just because God knows I will do something, doesn't make that action inevitable.  Craig argues that I could have exercised my ability to refrain from reading his book, and that if I had done such a thing God would have known this.  Moreover, Craig deals with the three primary objections to the idea of God's foreknowledge and shows how all three of them are inadequate or deficient.  For the serious student who wants to uphold the truths taught in the Bible, one must believe in God's infallible foreknowledge of the future.<br />In addition, Craig also refutes logical and theological fatalism.  Craig demonstrates that logical and theological fatalism have many aspects in common and the only factor that differentiates the two is that theological fatalists have thrown God into the equation.  Some previous reviewers have chided Mr. Craig for interacting with D.A Carson's book, Divine Sovereignty and Human Responsibility because they feel Craig's arguments are inadequate.  First, the book is very short in length, only 151 pages, and second the purpose is not to conduct a point by point refutation of Carson's work.  The point is simply to show that in the Bible God's causation of good actions and evil actions are described differently, and that God is not directly the cause of sin.  Yet, the theological fatalist must grant that if God is totally sovereign and controlling every event in history that He is equally responsible for both the good and bad, and in the exact same way.  Furthermore, there is no way to get around the oft mentioned notion that God is the author of sin since He is the first cause of everything and second causes only do what the first cause impels them to do.<br />Finally, Craig deals with the subject of how God can possess knowledge of all true events.  Craig believes that God possesses this knowledge innately and that He knows all truthful propositions simply because He is God.  In the last chapter, Craig explains the idea of middle knowledge which positis that God has knowledge of all counterfactual situations.  Therefore, God knows what any individual will freely choose in any set of circumstances.  Craig mentions the two biblical proofs(I Kings 23:6-13, Matthew 11) examined by the Jesuit theologians to prove that God has middle knowledge.  Also, Craig shows how this concept grants God a wide degree of providential control over creation while allowing creaturely freedom at the same time.  To prove that God does not possess middle knowledge, but only natural and free knowledge, opponents are going to have to refute Craig's arguments and show how the biblical passages do not apply to middle knowledge but to something else.  The refutations offered by the likes of Reformed Baptist, A.H. Strong, and Francois Turretin are inadequate and do not stand up to Scripture.  Turretin actually says that God does not know how individuals would have reacted in different circumstances, when in Matthew 11 Jesus obviously alludes to the fact that He does know just how they would have acted given a different situation.  Overall, this is a strong work and one that will not be easily refuted since Craig's argumentation is very sound.s the first cause of everything and second causes only do what the first cause impels them to do.<br />Finally, Craig deals with the subject of how God can possess knowledge of all true events.  Craig believes that God possesses this knowledge innately and that He knows all truthful propositions simply because He is God.  In the last chapter, Craig explains the idea of middle knowledge which positis that God has knowledge of all counterfactual situations.  Therefore, God knows what any individual will freely choose in any set of circumstances.  Craig mentions the two biblical proofs(I Kings 23:6-13, Matthew 11) examined by the Jesuit theologians to prove that God has middle knowledge.  Also, Craig shows how this concept grants God a wide degree of providential control over creation while allowing creaturely freedom at the same time.  To prove that God does not possess middle knowledge, but only natural and free knowledge, opponents are going to have to refute Craig's arguments and show how the biblical passages do not apply to middle knowledge but to something else.  The refutations offered by the likes of Reformed Baptist, A.H. Strong, and Francois Turretin are inadequate and do not stand up to Scripture.  Turretin actually says that God does not know how individuals would have reacted in different circumstances, when in Matthew 11 Jesus obviously alludes to the fact that He does know just how they would have acted given a different situation.  Overall, this is a strong work and one that will not be easily refuted since Craig's argumentation is very sound.	2003-12-30
US	36881957	R23QPBVXAAQM5G	0813201047	430116898	104: Origen: Commentary on the Epistle to the Romans, Books 6-10 (Fathers of the Church)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The first great exposition of Romans	This volume completes Origen's study of the book of Romans and deals with Romans 6:12-16:27.  One has to admire Origen's mind since this volume is filled with Scriptural references and Origen attempts to build a Scripture based interpretation of Romans by combining the thoughts of all the biblical authors.  Throughout the work Origen is confronting the teachings of gnostic teachers Valentinius, Basilides, and Marcion who interpreted Paul in a predestinarian manner and denied free-will.  Origen emphatically rejects this idea and passionately argues for the idea that mankind is endowed with a free will from God and has it within his power to obey or disobey.  For everyone who is screaming that this sounds like Semi-pelagianism or Pelagianism, Origen always upholds the doctrines of grace and God's intervention, but always does so in harmony with free will.  The gnostics on the other hand taught that man is saved in accordance with his nature, either a good or bad one, that these natures were received at birth, and that man could not change his nature since his destiny was fixed.  Origen teaches that man can change his nature through cooperation with God's grace and God's aid.<br />One area where I did think this commenatary was weak was Origen's interpretation of Romans 9:15-19.  Origen believes that these verses contain the words of an imaginary objector who is raising these objections towards Paul in an attempt to deny free will.  Virtually all scholars today are agreed that this interpretation is incorrect since whenever Paul uses the phrase, may it not be, he always goes on to disprove an assertion stated in the verses above.  This is really the only weakness I could find with Origen's scholarship.  This commentary will be probably be extremely disliked by those of a Reformed persuasion since Origen argues for predestination based on foreknowledge and free will.  Moreover, Calvinist's will find themselves agreeing with the positions of the gnostic heretics, and these are the same positions that Origen is attempting to refute.  Individuals who are Catholic, Orthodox, or Weslyan/Arminian will enjoy reading this commentary since there is much common ground shared.  If you are a student of the writings of the early Church or are simply just looking to understand the book of Romans from a different perspective, then by all means buy this commentary.se are the same positions that Origen is attempting to refute.  Individuals who are Catholic, Orthodox, or Weslyan/Arminian will enjoy reading this commentary since there is much common ground shared.  If you are a student of the writings of the early Church or are simply just looking to understand the book of Romans from a different perspective, then by all means buy this commentary.	2003-12-29
US	36881957	RANTE11S49MJ2	1585420441	810439285	At the Corner of East and Now: A Modern Life in Ancient Christian Orthodoxy	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A great way to communicate Orthodoxy	As an enquirer into Orthodoxy myself, I really enjoyed reading Mrs. Mathewes-Green's book.  She finds a way to blend the ancient and mystical side of Orthodoxy with the contemporary and modern culture of our time and have it all make sense.  There are so many little aspects to this book that make it so great to read.  Green educates you about the finer points of the Liturgy and Orthodox worship, but she doesn't beat you over the head with it.  She discusses her family's pilgramage into the Orthodox Church, but she does so within the confines of personal stories that deal with a specific topic.<br />Some of the more memorable chapters in this book include the one where she discusses her experience at a Christian rock concert.  The Orthodox Church believes that her worship is ancient, apostolic and should not be altered to suit the cultural climate of the times, yet at this event Green experienced a wilder and somewhat darker side to Christian worship that is very different that what Orthodoxy has to offer.  I also liked the chapter where she describes her Christmas shopping venture with her daughter.  Furthermore, I like the chapters discussing the Divine Liturgy ceremony of their particular parish, and the descriptions of all the different Church members.  Since their parish is mostly a convert parish with few cradle Orthodox, it sounds like their worship is more lively and involves more participation than most Churhes that have mostly cradle Orthodox.<br />This is a great book to give to someone who doesn't understand what the Orthodox Church is, and how they approach worship and devotion.  Green makes the material accessible, understandable, but also makes it educational and informative.	2003-12-16
US	36881957	RSHE694HOG1PW	0674362500	720023370	Greek Grammar	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Still the best Greek grammar	I am sad to say that I never bought this Grammar during my four years of studying Classics while in college.  If I had been smart and actually bought this when I started I could have saved myself a lot of time and prevented a lot of headaches.  Now I know that Smythe is old, and some of his approaches are outdated, but that does not mean his grammar book is still effective.  His work on both prepositions and moods of verbs are the best I have found and have helped me tremendously.  There are some scholars who have surpassed Smythe's work in other areas of Greek grammar and syntax, but as far as a basic and comprehensive grammar goes, Smythe is still the best for your both your wallet and your studies.	2003-12-15
US	36881957	R3MD9FP2Z4VGNL	0199102066	107780535	An Intermediate Greek-English Lexicon: Founded upon the Seventh Edition of Liddell and Scott's Greek-English Lexicon	Books	5	11	13	N	N	One of the best Lexicons	While in college I put off purchasing this Lexicon for over a  year, but once I bought it, I did not understand how I survived without it.  Simply put, the Liddell and Scott Intermediate is one of the best, if not the best, Lexicon available for any serious Greek student.  Whether you only study New Testament Koine Greek, or study Classical Greek, this book will be invaluable to you.  The entries are succint yet informative, and each entry will tell you how a word has been used in different periods of Greek literature.  Therefore, if one word has been employed in different uses in Homeric literature compared to the New Testament, this Lexicon will let you know.  Furthermore, entries for verbs will help you with the prinicpal parts so that is a plus.  Any way you look at it, if you are serious about Greek study then this Lexicon is a must have for your library.	2003-12-15
US	36881957	R1CL2A3GSVOX5N	0199102066	107780535	An Intermediate Greek-English Lexicon: Founded upon the Seventh Edition of Liddell and Scott's Greek-English Lexicon	Books	5	58	60	N	N	Still the best!	I purchased this Greek lexicon for my beginner's Greek class during my Sophmore year of college and I would never dream of using anything else;  No matter what other lexicons I have sampled or used, I still maintain that the Liddell and Scott is the definitive and best lexicon avaialable for both New Testament students and Classical Greek students alike.  The entries are succinct yet informative, listing numerous uses of prepositions and naming constructions.  Furthermore, word entries display where certain words are used in specific Greek texts and gives varying definitions for each different usage.  Another nice aspect is that the compilers studied the usage of words all the way from Homeric Greek to New Testament Koine Greek, so you are definitely getting a full range of definitions.  This is easily a must have purchase for any serious Greek student and one that you will not soon regret.	2003-12-11
US	36881957	R38KYEOLTW5S12	0849942748	284585654	The God Who Loves	Books	3	12	40	N	N	If this is how God loves....	then God is not omni benevolent.  This book is nothing more than MacArthur's attempt to have his cake and eat it too.  On the one hand he wants to uphold the traditional Reformed idea that God has an elected people that He loves with a special and unconditional love.  Yet, on the other hand MacArthur wants to believe that God loves the non-elect as well.  MacArthur argues for this by saying that God possesses two types of love: a general and non-saving love, which he gives to all, and a special and saving love He displays only towards the elect.  In my opinion there seems to be a disturbing trend taking place in Reformed apologetics these days.  Since they can't conform all of Scripture to their teachings, they invent new ideas and doctrines to attempt to compensate for those deficiencies and weaknesses.  First, many have begun to argue for the concept that God has two wills, and that God's desire to save all men only pertains to God's first will, which is really not salvific at all.  This has been in direct response to criticisms that have demonstrated that the usual Calvinist approach of saying all men means all types of men is not satisfactory and does not make sense of all the Scriptures.<br />Now MacArthur has added another element to the argument by saying that God has two types of love.  Does anyone else see the pattern here?  First God has two wills and now he commands two types of love as well.  I can understand MacArthur's reasoning for writing this book since he desires to stem the tide of young and zealous Reformed initiates who argue that God does not love the reprobate, but in fact hates them.  They argue for this from Scripture passages such as Romans 9:13, which they believe validates the idea that God hates the non-elect.  Yet, instead of accepting the obvious MacArthur has chosen to develop his own unique and unhistorical idea.  When the Scripture speaks of God's love for all mankind it always uses the Greek word agape and never gives any hint of a differentiation.  In the gospel of Mark, Jesus loved the rich young ruler even though he didn't accept Christ's message.  Are we honestly supposed to believe that the agape spoken of there is some ulterior form of love?  I and many others do not believe that to be the case.  Moreover, Jesus commands us to love our enemies and do well to those who hate and despise us.  Is God calling us to do something that He Himself will not do?  Again, I seriously doubt this is the case<br />Finally, I found many of MacArthur's arguments to be unconvincing.  He says that he is willing to accept God's love for the non-elect as a love that is calling them to repentance, giving them sufficient grace, and showering them with earthly blessings, but his argument breaks down when one examines his beliefs.  Since MarArthur holds to the traditional Reformed idea of Total Depravity, he believes men are corpses are sin, completely unresponsive, oblivious to the things of God, and unable to do a thing.  Now, I wouldn't walk up to a corpse tell him I love him and plead with him to repent because that is just ludicrous.  Therefore, I doubt the all-wise omnipotent ruler of the universe would do the same to men that are dead in sin since He is infinitely smarter than humans and knows this will accomplish nothing.  MacArthur's view of total depravity completely undercuts his arguments for God's love.  If you are really serious about studying and understanding God's love for all of us, then read the Bible and only pick up this book after previous study.differentiation.  In the gospel of Mark, Jesus loved the rich young ruler even though he didn't accept Christ's message.  Are we honestly supposed to believe that the agape spoken of there is some ulterior form of love?  I and many others do not believe that to be the case.  Moreover, Jesus commands us to love our enemies and do well to those who hate and despise us.  Is God calling us to do something that He Himself will not do?  Again, I seriously doubt this is the case<br />Finally, I found many of MacArthur's arguments to be unconvincing.  He says that he is willing to accept God's love for the non-elect as a love that is calling them to repentance, giving them sufficient grace, and showering them with earthly blessings, but his argument breaks down when one examines his beliefs.  Since MarArthur holds to the traditional Reformed idea of Total Depravity, he believes men are corpses are sin, completely unresponsive, oblivious to the things of God, and unable to do a thing.  Now, I wouldn't walk up to a corpse tell him I love him and plead with him to repent because that is just ludicrous.  Therefore, I doubt the all-wise omnipotent ruler of the universe would do the same to men that are dead in sin since He is infinitely smarter than humans and knows this will accomplish nothing.  MacArthur's view of total depravity completely undercuts his arguments for God's love.  If you are really serious about studying and understanding God's love for all of us, then read the Bible and only pick up this book after previous study.	2003-12-08
US	36881957	R14GGIROQF0FD9	0814610072	52031801	The Faith of the Early Fathers, Vol. 2	Books	5	10	11	N	N	If you want to study the Fathers....	then read these books.  This three volume set is a great introductory set of the writings of the early Church Fathers.  The books themselves are organized nicely starting with the earliest sources and then working down through the literary timeline.  Jurgens has provided a brief synoposis on each individual author, and every piece of writing is titled, dated, and described.  Moreover, the works contain excellent scripture annotations which makes it easy to discover just exactly what Bible verse the father in question is quoting.  The topical reference system is very nice as well, but some may not like Jurgens style since he is strongly Catholic and desires to prove the teachings of the Church correct through Patristic sources.  Nevertheless, anyone of an Orthodox persuasion or a Protestant curious about Church history will find these books useful and will be able to learn a lot.  The only downside to these books is that quotes are only partial;  Jurgens' intent is to prove doctrinal points, not provide a handy but abbreviated corpus of Patristic literature.  Anyone wishing to study the Fathers more in depth will have to look elsewhere, but these three books offer a fine starting point.<br />Covered in volume two are some of the greatest Christian thinkers of the post-Nicene Church including: the Cappadocian fathers, John Chrysostom, Ambrose of Milan, and Jerome.  Also of interest are the short writings of Pelagius and his close associate Julius of Eclanum.  Nevertheless, I think people will really enjoy the writings of the Cappadocians, Chrysostom, and Ambrose since these men did so much to advance the Christian faith and since we owe so much to their writing, preaching and teaching.  Without a doubt, without them Christianity would not look the same as it does today.	2003-11-27
US	36881957	R3NBQJ5FZGNJPX	0814610218	507588622	The Faith of the Early Fathers, Vol. 3	Books	5	23	24	N	N	If you want to study the Fathers....	then read these books.  This three volume set is a great introductory set of the writings of the early Church Fathers.  The books themselves are organized nicely starting with the earliest sources and then working down through the literary timeline.  Jurgens has provided a brief synoposis on each individual author, and every piece of writing is titled, dated, and described.  Moreover, the works contain excellent scripture annotations which makes it easy to discover just exactly what Bible verse the father in question is quoting.  The topical reference system is very nice as well, but some may not like Jurgens style since he is strongly Catholic and desires to prove the teachings of the Church correct through Patristic sources.  Nevertheless, anyone of an Orthodox persuasion or a Protestant curious about Church history will find these books useful and will be able to learn a lot.  The only downside to these books is that quotes are only partial;  Jurgens' intent is to prove doctrinal points, not provide a handy but abbreviated corpus of Patristic literature.  Anyone wishing to study the Fathers more in depth will have to look elsewhere, but these three books offer a fine starting point.<br />Covered in volume three are the writings of Augustine of Hippo, and his student, Prosper of Aquitaine, Cyril of Alexandria, Vincent of Lerins, John Cassian, Pope Leo I, Gregory the Great, and John of Damascus.  Of course, everyone is going to want to read the writings of Augustine since he has had such a tremendous impact on Western Christianity.  His writings compose about the first 200 pages of volume 3, so there is plenty to read.  Nevertheless, one should always keep in mind that Augustine, no matter how influential, was only one voice among the many great fathers that existed, therefore one should read the writings of men like Vincent of Lerins and John Cassian to maintain a balance perspective.  Also, the writings of Cyril of Alexandria are of great interest and will be enjoyed by anyone wishing to know more about the developing Christian faith.oyed by anyone wishing to know more about the developing Christian faith.	2003-11-27
US	36881957	R2Q9AG8UQKJSGM	0814604323	279480503	Faith of the Early Fathers, Vol. 1	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If you want to study the Fathers....	then read these books.  This three volume set is a great introductory set of the writings of the early Church Fathers.  The books themselves are organized nicely starting with the earliest sources and then working down through the literary timeline.  Jurgens has provided a brief synoposis on each individual author, and every piece of writing is titled, dated, and described.  Moreover, the works contain excellent scripture annotations which makes it easy to discover just exactly what Bible verse the father in question is quoting.  The topical reference system is very nice as well, but some may not like Jurgens style since he is strongly Catholic and desires to prove the teachings of the Church correct through Patristic sources.  Nevertheless, anyone of an Orthodox persuasion or a Protestant curious about Church history will find these books useful and will be able to learn a lot.  The only downside to these books is that quotes are only partial;  Jurgens' intent is to prove doctrinal points, not provide a handy but abbreviated corpus of Patristic literature.  Anyone wishing to study the Fathers more in depth will have to look elsewhere, but these three books offer a fine starting point.<br />Covered in volume one are all of the apostolic Fathers including: Clement of Rome, Ignatius of Antioch, Justin Martyr, and Irenaeus of Lyon.  This volume also contains the writings of Tertullian, Clement of Alexandria, Origen, Lactantius, and Athanasius.  Of most interest will probably be the writings of the apostolic fathers since they are the closest non-biblical writers we have to the apostles, Origen, because he was the first great theologian of the Church, and Athanasius, the great father of orthodox trinitarianism.	2003-11-27
US	36881957	R2C56Z2NFMOQ5M	0851516734	207955418	Church of Rome at the Bar of History	Books	3	37	46	N	N	Some good arguments, some bad	William Webster has developed his little apologetics niche by arguing against the claims made by the Roman Catholic Church.  Unfortunately, in this book he offers some really good arguments along with some really terrible ones.  First the positive aspects of the book.  Webster does a great job of dealing with the more Protestant oriented issues like justification, faith, and the Scriptures.  I believe Webster argues convincingly that the deutero-cannonicals were not considered authoritative Scripture by the Church fathers.  Nevertheless, he fails to take into consideration the fact that many of the fathers meant different things when they referred to the canon as opposed to Scripture.  Just because the Fathers didn't regard the deuteros as part of the Christian canon, or books read during the liturgical season, doesn't mean they didn' regard them as Scripture.  In fact, Athanasius lists the books of the canon as the 66 found in Protestant bibles minus Esther, but elsewhere in his writings he repeatedly refers to many of the apocryphal books as Scripture.  Either he contradicted himself on many occasions or he had two divergent notions as to what the canon was and what was Scripture.<br />When it comes to other issues like justification Webster is correct in his assessments of the the different ideas held by Protestants and Catholics, but he doesn't do enough to convince that his views are correct.  Examining the Marian doctrines, Webster illustrates dogmas such as the assumption and immaculate conception weren't held by the Church Fathers.  Also, his work on the supposed evolution of the papacy is also strong, but to understand that issue one should read his longer work, The Matthew 16 Controversey, for a fuller and more thorough line of argumentation.  I believe that these sections were the stronger sections of the book, and the ones that were more convincing and persuasive in their argumentation.<br />I think where Webster really goes off track is when he deals with issues like the Eucharist and the Sacraments.  First, I don't know what qualifications Webster used to determine that Justin Martyr believed in consubstantiation while Ignatius of Antioch believed in transubstantiation.  There is one time in Justin's Apology where he specifically says the bread and wine in the Eucharist is transmuted into the body and blood of Christ.  Hardly, Lutheran type consubstantiation language to me.  Also, to say that the Didache and Eusebius taught that the bread and wine were merely symbols is hard to swallow.  First, Eusebius refers elsewhere in his writings to the bread and wine as the body and blood of Christ, so either he contradicts himself or means something different by the word symbol;  In fact, Webster never examines the argument that the Greek word for symbol does not mean symbol in the way English speaking people understand it.  In the Greek the word had a much stronger connotation and meaning, which can be evinced by the fact that many Fathers stated that Jesus Christ was the true symbol of God.  They weren't saying that he just signified God, but that he was truly and actually God in the flesh.  Finally, saying Augustine believed in a spiritual presense only does not take into his many statements where he says that the bread and the cup are truly Christ's body and blood.  What I thought was really appalling was Webster's treatment of baptism.  After stating that Fathers were unanimously agreed that baptism was efficacious for regeneration, spiritual life, and the remission of sins, Webster proceeds to state they were all wrong and then argues for a Zwinglian interpretation of baptism.  I don't know about you, but if I have to choose between the unanimous opinion of the Fathers who much closer to the time of the Apostles, or the private opinions of one man writing in the 16th century, I will side with the Fathers.  Overall, an interesting read, but I think Webster would be better served if he took each subject individually and wrote a more detailed examination of each topic.nd wrote a more detailed examination of each topic.	2003-11-22
US	36881957	R2YN24OAECUKLQ	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	3	25	34	N	N	A provocative look at an ancient heresy	Not knowing what to expect, I have to admit that I enjoyed Pagel's examination of gnostic beliefs.  The manner in which Pagels compares and contrasts orthodox Christianity with gnostic versions of Christianity make a lot of sense and puts everything into perspective.  I liked the way the author discussed the feminine element in God and spoke of God as both masculine and feminine.  This was a gnostic teaching that wasn't readily accepted in the 2nd century, but which may be gathering support among biblical scholars today.  In fact, it was the great German theologian Karl Barth who argued that mankind was made in the image of God, and that this image consisted mainly in our being created both female and male.  Since it was God who said, &quot;let us make man in our image and likeness,&quot; and since that reference to us is believed by most to be referring to the Trinity, God must contain some feminine element.  In addition, Catholic theologian and teacher, Scott Hahn, has argued that the Holy Spirit can be understood as a feminine element of the Trinity.  Although these ideas may not be considered orthodox by many, and are not readily accepted by mainstream Christians, Pagel's evaluation of gnostic teaching does make one ask some questions.  Although I really haven't embraced such teachings, it does make one want to investigate the issue further.<br />Another thing that struck me were many of the striking similarities between current Protestant ideas, and early gnostic teaching.  The rejective of clericalism and the priesthood of all believers were all ideas championed by the Reformers, and were similar to many elements common to gnostic sects.  In fact, the gnostics believed their spiritual growth was more an individual exercise and thus they did not need a clerical heirarchy to tell them what to do.  This is so common among many evangelicals who believe they have a personal relationship with Christ, and are indwelt by the Holy Spirit and thus are in direct communication with God.  Furthermore, the church existing primarily as an invisible and spiritual entity is a belief that both gnostics and many protestants share in common.  I could list other similarities but these are just a few that I noticed while reading the text.<br />I think the negative aspect to this book would have to be in Pagel's presentation of orthodox Christians.  I for one, am glad the early church consolidated and organized the way it did because that prevented it from fragmenting and degenerating into thousands of little sects; This is a problem that modern Christendom faces today and one the early church avoided by structuring itself the way it did.  Also, the fact that gnostics were so anti-clerical that they abandoned teaching authority altogether was another negative element.  The New Testament makes it abundantly clear that there should be regular teachers appointed to oversee the churches and that these positions should not be delegated by lot or weekly assignment, but should be handed on to trustworthy individuals who will rightly divide the word of truth.  Also, just the fact that gnostics taught so many diverse doctrines makes it unappealing in my opinion;  Some taught Christ wasn't human, some taught he was, some taught some portions of Scripture as literal, while others taught it was spiritual.  Such a diverse body of beliefs makes gnostic teaching confusing and unappealing atleast to this mind. Overall, a nice book and good look at a rival Christian body from the 2nd century, but it doesn't do enough to convince the reader that gnosticism was in fact correct.ation with God.  Furthermore, the church existing primarily as an invisible and spiritual entity is a belief that both gnostics and many protestants share in common.  I could list other similarities but these are just a few that I noticed while reading the text.<br />I think the negative aspect to this book would have to be in Pagel's presentation of orthodox Christians.  I for one, am glad the early church consolidated and organized the way it did because that prevented it from fragmenting and degenerating into thousands of little sects; This is a problem that modern Christendom faces today and one the early church avoided by structuring itself the way it did.  Also, the fact that gnostics were so anti-clerical that they abandoned teaching authority altogether was another negative element.  The New Testament makes it abundantly clear that there should be regular teachers appointed to oversee the churches and that these positions should not be delegated by lot or weekly assignment, but should be handed on to trustworthy individuals who will rightly divide the word of truth.  Also, just the fact that gnostics taught so many diverse doctrines makes it unappealing in my opinion;  Some taught Christ wasn't human, some taught he was, some taught some portions of Scripture as literal, while others taught it was spiritual.  Such a diverse body of beliefs makes gnostic teaching confusing and unappealing atleast to this mind. Overall, a nice book and good look at a rival Christian body from the 2nd century, but it doesn't do enough to convince the reader that gnosticism was in fact correct.	2003-11-10
US	36881957	RAMBNTR4GLGXI	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	2	26	47	N	N	Most of what is written is.....	beyond belief, and so Pagel's book is therefore aptly titled.  I really believed that this book would build upon what Pagel's wrote in the Gnostic Gospels, but to my dismay that is not what this book is about.  Instead, Pagels attempts to analyze two specific schools of thought concerning Christian spirituality and devotion.  The ones who read the gospel of John were the ones who would later be termed the orthodox, and the ones who read the gospel of Thomas were known as the gnostics.  First, Pagel's assertion that both gospels may have been written around the same time is a tenuous assumption at best.  She offers no proof to validate this claim, but only theorizes that John's mention of doubting Thomas is meant as a slam toward Thomas Christians who believed the gospel of Thomas.  Interesting theory, absolutely no support!<br />Second, Pagels seems to have serious qualms with Irenaeus, the 2nd century bishop of Lyon France, because she constantly attacks and criticizes his views.  I have read Irenaeus' masterpiece, the Against Heresies, and have found it to be a compelling and trustworthy piece of writing.  What bothers me the most is that Pagel's uses partial quotations and selective citing to prove her point, but does not explain the context around the provided quotes to substantiate her claims.  Throughout this work, Irenaeus demonstrates that gnostic teaching is not Christian because it draws from numerous other sources including Zoroastrianism and the popular mystery cults of the day.  In addition, Pagel's makes it appear that Irenaeus is telling people not to mature and grow in their Christian faith but to blindly accept what the heirarchy teaches them.  This idea is simply not true.  Sure, Irenaeus stressed following apostolic tradition and following the bishops, but he never wanted to impede anyone from growing spiritually.  What he wanted to avoid were people reading the Scriptures with the wrong theological lenses and thus leading themselves astray with their wild speculations and vain ideas.<br />Finally, the idea that mankind is related to God and can be relate to God is absolutely non-sense.  Christianity has it's roots in Judaism and both affirm that man claiming to be god-like or somehow divine is non-sense.  Sure, there are groups who claim such things, but they are outside the pale of orthodoxy and distort certain Scriptures at the expense of multiple other verses that speak otherwise.  I think both the Old and New Testaments overwhelmingly affirm man's sinfulness and their need of divine intervention and grace.  Where the gnostics and orthodox would divulge can be summed up very simply:  The gnostics see Jesus as a spiritual example to help them in their journey to uncover the divine within them while the orthodox see Jesus as a savior who saves them from their sins and radically transforms their lives and releases them from the power of sin.  One view preaches what practically every religion teaches, thus the gnostics are really nothing more than Christian Buddhists or Hindus, while the orthodox claim is wholly unique and to my satisfaction makes the most sense out of the Scriptures, both old and new Testaments.heir wild speculations and vain ideas.<br />Finally, the idea that mankind is related to God and can be relate to God is absolutely non-sense.  Christianity has it's roots in Judaism and both affirm that man claiming to be god-like or somehow divine is non-sense.  Sure, there are groups who claim such things, but they are outside the pale of orthodoxy and distort certain Scriptures at the expense of multiple other verses that speak otherwise.  I think both the Old and New Testaments overwhelmingly affirm man's sinfulness and their need of divine intervention and grace.  Where the gnostics and orthodox would divulge can be summed up very simply:  The gnostics see Jesus as a spiritual example to help them in their journey to uncover the divine within them while the orthodox see Jesus as a savior who saves them from their sins and radically transforms their lives and releases them from the power of sin.  One view preaches what practically every religion teaches, thus the gnostics are really nothing more than Christian Buddhists or Hindus, while the orthodox claim is wholly unique and to my satisfaction makes the most sense out of the Scriptures, both old and new Testaments.	2003-11-10
US	36881957	R3KJ7DODO4R4F1	0962271330	653962265	Becoming Orthodox: A Journey to the Ancient Christian Faith	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A great conversion story!	As interest in the history of Christianity and ancient forms of worship and practice continues to grow, books like this will become more popular.  This book tells the story of Fr. Peter Gilquist and some of his close friends as they struggled to find their way into the historic and apostolic Church, and eventually became Orthodox Christians.  Although the book is quite polemical at times and doesn't state things as politely or cordially as it should, I believe it's strong points far outweigh it's weak points.  First, the author gives his life story and his journey of faith.  From growing up Lutheran, to eventually becoming a Baptist, and then starting his own unique orthodox church, Fr. Gilquist has definitely been around the denominational block and speaks from experience.  Then the author describes the unique journey he and his friends embarked on as they sought to find the Apostles Church and researched the issue from many possible angles.<br />The other sections of this book then deal with the struggles of these men to find their way into the Orthodox Church.  From their rejection by the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople and the subsequent dismay, to their acceptance by the Patriarchate of Antioch and their entrance into the Church, the entire journey is discussed.  Also, the book contains a few chapters that deal with particular points of doctrine and practice that these individuals struggled with such as veneration of the Theotokos and the idea of referring to priest's as Father.  Both issues are discussed and dealt with from Scripture and I believe the author does a decent job of answering objections.<br />The reason I gave this book 4 stars was because it was polemical at times.  There were a few instances where the author was a bit tougher on Protestantism than he should have been.  Also, Gilquist seems to say many negative things about the Catholic Church and not very many positive things.  I know he and his friends reached the conclusion that the Bishop of Rome was wrong, but he should realize that many individuals in his shoes have reached the opposite conclusion and he could have been more ecumenical in his tone.  Overall, these deficencies do not detract from the overall quality of the book and I think this a book that anyone interested in Orthodoxy or ancient Christianity should read.hop of Rome was wrong, but he should realize that many individuals in his shoes have reached the opposite conclusion and he could have been more ecumenical in his tone.  Overall, these deficencies do not detract from the overall quality of the book and I think this a book that anyone interested in Orthodoxy or ancient Christianity should read.	2003-11-07
US	36881957	R248TXDXAGDS79	0962485047	402862159	Beyond Calvinism and Arminianism: An Inductive, Mediate Theology of Salvation	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Very sound, but also disappointing	I bought this book really expecting to be treated to a new and fresh exegesis of the Scriptures, but Olson argues for the same positions that men like Norman Geisler and Dave Hunt argue for and believe.  That doesn't mean this book is weak or inadequate, but only that this book doesn't cover any new ground, but just covers the same teachings taught by many other men out there teaching God's word.  With that being said, I believe this book makes a lot of valid points, and does some good and solid exegesis of a lot of Scriptural texts.  I believe that Olson's insistence that his position is Semi-Augustinian is valid;  Too many Reformed apologist's like Sproul and Horton only believe there are three categories of Christians: 1.)Pelagians 2.)Semi-pelagians, who they would both argue are heretics, or at best just barely Christian, and 3.) Augustinians.  Yet, these basic and elementary classifications don't do justice to the historical positions that actually existed and do exist.  Olson points out, that Schaff stated that the council of Orange settled on a Semi-Augustinian position while condemning Semi-pelagianism, thus showing there are two distinct and unique classes.  Furthermore, even Augustine in one of his final treatises, On The Gift of Perseverance, stated that Cyprian, Ambrose, and Gregory of Nazianzen all believed that everything the saint had was because of God's grace, yet these men were not predestinarians in the same sense Augustine was.  Thus, even Augustine admitted that believers could attribute everything to grace without adopting his predestinarian stance.<br />Now, the strenghts of this book are numerous, but they mostly lie in Olson's investigation of key biblical texts and trying to understand them based on the Bible and apart from a deductive and scholastic theology.  I really enjoyed Olson's study of the words for foreknowledge and predestination.  Olson shows that to load foreknowledge with a selecting implication as some Calvinist's do is a serious mistake, and that the word makes better sense when understood in the context of a relationship and not saving/choosing love.  Also, Olson's study of the word for predestination is groundbreaking and makes one question why the Greek word is rendered that way.  Personally, I think it all goes back to poor word selection by Jerome, who selected an inadequate Latin word for the Greek.  I am glad to see some translations have been correcting this error, but it still boggles the mind that some continue to translate the word as predestine when such a translation just doesn't fit the overall original meaning of the word.  Of further significance are Olson's studies on the differences between repentance and conversion, something too many confuse and don't distinguish, examining the corporate nature of the elected Church, and also examining the implications of God delegating His sovereignty.  Finally, Olson completely shatters the old Calvinist idea that regeneration preceedes faith.  Olson demonstrates that such an idea is based more on deductive reasoning and building a compatible theology, than it is with studying the relevant Scriptural texts.<br />Why did I only give this book 4 stars and not 5?  Well, that has to do with Olson's defense of once saved, always saved.  I believe Olson just simply overlooks too many relevant texts and sweeps them under the rug without ever convincing the reader he is right.  The problem passages in Hebrews, well those people are saved, but are going to lose rewards.  Jesus' numerous parables about the unfaithful servant and the foolish virgins.  Well, they are saved, but are losing rewards because they are shut out of the celebration, but are somehow still included in the kingdom.  Olson even has the audacity to state that the place of weeping and gnashing of teeth in the parable of the 10 virgins is speaking of some loss of reward.  This is simply ludicrous since everyplace else Jesus uses this terminology He is speaking of hell.  What about the problem passages in Revelations?  Well, those are speaking of rewards as well, and if it's not it's just speaking of the corporate Church.  Olson doesn't do near enough to convince the reader that his views are correct and that this is what the passages are really saying.  Finally, Olson seems to acknowledge that William Lane Craig is on to something with the idea of Middle Knowledge, but barely discusses it's implications.  The Scienta Media is the only way God can be completely Sovereign, and yet man can still make free choices.  This is the system that reconciles the irreconcilable, and although Olson agrees with it, he doesn't develop this idea at all.  Overall a strong work, for casting some serious doubt on the common Calvinistic tradition of Bible interpretation, but also the victim of some weaknesses as well.t about the problem passages in Revelations?  Well, those are speaking of rewards as well, and if it's not it's just speaking of the corporate Church.  Olson doesn't do near enough to convince the reader that his views are correct and that this is what the passages are really saying.  Finally, Olson seems to acknowledge that William Lane Craig is on to something with the idea of Middle Knowledge, but barely discusses it's implications.  The Scienta Media is the only way God can be completely Sovereign, and yet man can still make free choices.  This is the system that reconciles the irreconcilable, and although Olson agrees with it, he doesn't develop this idea at all.  Overall a strong work, for casting some serious doubt on the common Calvinistic tradition of Bible interpretation, but also the victim of some weaknesses as well.	2003-11-07
US	36881957	R23ZMCC37LGBCI	0310384915	186621545	How to Read the Bible for All Its Worth	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Nice book on Scripture reading	Although a lot of individuals may feel they do not require any hermeneutical training, I think a cursory read of a book like this should be a requisite for all Christians serious about studying Scripture.  I think the rules and guidelines established in this book are excellent and are some of the best developed for the purpose of understanding and interpreting Scripture.<br />Epistles:  When it comes to New Testament Epistles I think Fee gives some excellent advice when he says these books should be treated like letters.  That means an individual should read through the text several times as they would any letter from a friend or correspondance and then begin breaking it down to understand it.  Moreover, the concept that these texts could not mean something they did not mean to their original audience is crucial to grasp.  A reader cannot be overly subjective and begin applying various Scripture passages to his or her life, when a particular passage does not mean what they think it means.<br />Historical books:  I think Fee and Stuart make some great points when it comes to understanding the historical books of the Old and New Testaments.  First, they argue that we should read these books to see God's activities in the affairs of Israel and His Church.  Therefore, these texts are better understood when broken up into smaller sections and read as a progressive accout of salvation history.  In addition, the authors warn against decontextualizing and allegorizing passages which is always a temptation when reading a historial narrative that doesn't seem to have much theological or spiritual significance.<br />The Gospels:  Fee makes some great points when it comes to understanding the gospels.  First, he argues that familiarity with the historical context is crucial and vitally important.  If one is not remotely familiar with 1st century Mediterranean culture then they are at a disadvantage.  Second, reading similar gospel accounts side by side and analyzing the minor differences can also shed light on which audience the gospel was intended and what message the author is attempting to convey in that instance.  Also, established as a rule throughout is that one should read and think in paragraphs as a helpful guide to understanding these books.<br />The Laws:  I like Stuart's treatement of the Hebrew legal books.  First, he argues that these laws were given to Israel to benefit them and therefore must be understood as applying to the kingdom of Israel and not us, since we are not Israel.  Although, this is a valid point I think the argument that unless a specific teaching of the law wasn't reiterated in the New Testament, then it isn't binding on us today is not a good argument.  What about the laws condemning bestiality, homosexuality, incest, and rape? None of these were specifically mentioned by Jesus, but I don't think anyone would argue that they are no longer binding upon us today.<br />The books closes by dealing with the Psalms, Wisdom literature, and Revelation.  Again, nothing new or groudbreaking here, just solid and sound advice with a few minor points of contention.  Although, not as good as it could be, I think this book is the best out there as a guide to reading and understanding Scripture.ifferences can also shed light on which audience the gospel was intended and what message the author is attempting to convey in that instance.  Also, established as a rule throughout is that one should read and think in paragraphs as a helpful guide to understanding these books.<br />The Laws:  I like Stuart's treatement of the Hebrew legal books.  First, he argues that these laws were given to Israel to benefit them and therefore must be understood as applying to the kingdom of Israel and not us, since we are not Israel.  Although, this is a valid point I think the argument that unless a specific teaching of the law wasn't reiterated in the New Testament, then it isn't binding on us today is not a good argument.  What about the laws condemning bestiality, homosexuality, incest, and rape? None of these were specifically mentioned by Jesus, but I don't think anyone would argue that they are no longer binding upon us today.<br />The books closes by dealing with the Psalms, Wisdom literature, and Revelation.  Again, nothing new or groudbreaking here, just solid and sound advice with a few minor points of contention.  Although, not as good as it could be, I think this book is the best out there as a guide to reading and understanding Scripture.	2003-11-07
US	36881957	R1H2OK4IKXTL5L	0802844456	568454935	What Saint Paul Really Said: Was Paul of Tarsus the Real Founder of Christianity?	Books	4	99	111	N	N	A brief introduction to the New Perspective	Although many within the traditional Protestant camp dish out some harsh criticism toward Wright, I think no one will contest that Wright is a first rate scholar and that his views must be taken seriously and engaged by other evangelical Protestants.  That being said, I think Wright's new work on Paul's gospel message is a great work that sheds new light on a topic that most think they have fully grasped.  The reason why I like Wright's work is because he attempts to understand Paul from a 1st century Jewish mindset, and not from a later perspective.  I think most Protestants would do well to reconsider if the 16th century interpretation of Paul is really the best one, and understand that that interpretation is a product of 16th century scholastic Augustinianism, and does not try to understand Paul as a first century Jewish scholar.  This is why the New Perspective is so helpful at giving us a new dimension within which we can understand Paul's teachings.<br />Briefly, Wright begins the book by arguing that the heart of the gospel is not how one can get into a right relationship with God, but that it is an imperial proclomation that Jesus and not Caesar is Lord.  I thought this idea was well argued for and has some merit, but I am not fully convinced.  Then Wright argues that membership in the covenant community is much like that of traditional Judaism;  One becomes a member of this corporate community via the covenant, and then one remains in that covenant community.  In addition, Wright takes a different view of what exactly the righteousness of God means in a book like Romans.  Wright believes the genitive construction is best understood as a subjective genitive and not an objective genitive;  That means the righteousness of God is God's covenant faithfulness to his creation, and not some gift of righteousness that God bestows to mankind.  For those in the Protestant camp who might disagree, even John Piper holds a similar view so this idea is hardly novel or not well accepted within traditional Reformed circles.<br />Wright believes that God's covenant faithfulness was manifested when he sent His Son, Jesus Christ into the world to redeem creation.  This act was a demonstration of God's faithfulness and ushered in the time of renewal and the new age that Paul had so eagerly awaited as a zealous Pharisee.  Not much disagreement here, but where I do have qualms with Wright is over his denial of imputed righteousness.  Wright believes that there are few Scriptures that speak of an imputed righteousness of Christ and the ones that do are misunderstood.  Right believes that faith is not what makes one right with God, but what identifes one as a valid member of the covenant community.  Thus, justification is not soteriological but ecclesiogical.  If one is going to accept this view I believe Wright will have to develop this idea more fully and should devote a future book solely to this topic.  Although there are a few areas of disagreement, I believe this book should be read by all Protestants so that they can approach the Pauline corpus from a more Jewish mindset.well accepted within traditional Reformed circles.<br />Wright believes that God's covenant faithfulness was manifested when he sent His Son, Jesus Christ into the world to redeem creation.  This act was a demonstration of God's faithfulness and ushered in the time of renewal and the new age that Paul had so eagerly awaited as a zealous Pharisee.  Not much disagreement here, but where I do have qualms with Wright is over his denial of imputed righteousness.  Wright believes that there are few Scriptures that speak of an imputed righteousness of Christ and the ones that do are misunderstood.  Right believes that faith is not what makes one right with God, but what identifes one as a valid member of the covenant community.  Thus, justification is not soteriological but ecclesiogical.  If one is going to accept this view I believe Wright will have to develop this idea more fully and should devote a future book solely to this topic.  Although there are a few areas of disagreement, I believe this book should be read by all Protestants so that they can approach the Pauline corpus from a more Jewish mindset.	2003-10-26
US	36881957	R2NVQLR6VFM9ZC	0938635115	598063063	The First-Created Man: Seven Homilies by St. Symeon the New Theologian	Books	5	22	23	N	N	An Orthodox theologian for the Western mind	Of all the material I have read dealing with the creation of Adam and Eve and their subsequent fall from innocence and holiness, Saint Symeon's homilies are among the best.  Considering the limited material that Symeon has to deal with, I am amazed at the level of insight and knowledge that he gleens from the text.  Symeon deals with such topics as Adam's and Eve's original created state and their purpose in the garden of Eden.  Being of an Orthodox persuasion Symeon sees a strong message of Theosis in the beginning of Genesis.  He argues that Adam and Eve were created holy and sinless, but that they were not created perfect since they still had the potential to sin and bring death and suffering into the world.  Adam and Eve were created as innocent children who needed to grow in holiness as they obeyed the Lord and followed Him.<br />One portion of this book that I really liked was Saint Symeon's homily on the events immediately after the fall.  Symeon understands God's calling to Adam in the garden as God's attempt to bring Adam and Eve to repentance and to ackowledge their wrong doing.  God was giving them every opportunity to repent and he would have shown them mercy had they only admitted their trangression and sought God's forgiveness.  This was an angle I had never even thought of before and really made me appreciate this section of the Genesis story.  In addition, I love how Symeon understood Christ's work on the cross as the remedy to the disobedience in Eden.  Just as Adam disobeyed at a tree and brought death and suffering into the world, Christ's obedience at the tree brought life and hapiness to those who believe in Him.<br />I really think individuals from a Western Christian perspective could really benefit from Saint Symeon's teachings.  There are so many elements in his homilies that are similar to Protestant teaching, that I think people would find much to agree with.  The Orthodox are often accused of having a less severe view of the fall and sin than the West, but Symeon's own words completely shatter this false assertion.  Symeon refers to Adam's trangression as an act that brought a sinful nature upon all humanity.  Symeon states that people sin because they are slaves to sin and not vice versa, and he even argues that everyone is unrighteous before God, even infants, because all are partakers in Adam's nature.  I believe that Protestants will find much to agree with here, and they will also understand that the Orthodox do not take the sin issue lightly.  Moreover, Symeon often refers to God's punishments as chastisements upon mankind for disobedience.  Although chastisements are different than the Augustinian idea of judicial punishments, both the East and the West can agree that such maladies are God's response to man's sin.  Although there are some differnces in thought I believe that everyone will benefit by reading this great theologian of the Eastern Church.than the West, but Symeon's own words completely shatter this false assertion.  Symeon refers to Adam's trangression as an act that brought a sinful nature upon all humanity.  Symeon states that people sin because they are slaves to sin and not vice versa, and he even argues that everyone is unrighteous before God, even infants, because all are partakers in Adam's nature.  I believe that Protestants will find much to agree with here, and they will also understand that the Orthodox do not take the sin issue lightly.  Moreover, Symeon often refers to God's punishments as chastisements upon mankind for disobedience.  Although chastisements are different than the Augustinian idea of judicial punishments, both the East and the West can agree that such maladies are God's response to man's sin.  Although there are some differnces in thought I believe that everyone will benefit by reading this great theologian of the Eastern Church.	2003-10-26
US	36881957	R1HEFIIZX6PFA3	1879737256	521456198	The Matthew 16 Controversy: Peter and the Rock	Books	5	31	40	N	N	A very convincing book	William Webster takes aim at the Catholic idea of the papacy and does an outstanding of job of illustrating how the Early Church Fathers regarded the Bishop of Rome.  Webster goes through writing after writing in order to prove that the rock of Matthew 16 was none other than Jesus Christ Himself, or else was considered by others to be Peter's faith in Christ;  Either way Webster proves that a vast majority of the Fathers did not believe that Peter himself was the subject of this statement.  The list of Fathers Webster examines and the list includes: Origen, Gregory of Nyssa, the Cappadocian Fathers, Cyprian, John Chrysostom, and heavy hitters of the Western Church like Ambrose of Milan and Augustine of Hippo.  Webster quotes from these men's writings where they wrote on Matthew 16 and proves that the modern Catholic interpretation of this scripture is not the one that was held by the Fathers.  Now some may object, like Stephen Ray does in his book on the papacy, that Webster is selective and only uses partial quotations.  Although this is true, it doesn't make a difference because Webster is only attempting to show that the Fathers' understanding of Matthew 16 was different than that of today's Catholic Church.  Webster doesn't need to provide larger quotes because either the Fathers believed Peter was the rock or he wasn't and Webster proves that the Fathers didn't read this passage the way many Roman apologists assume they did.  In fact, I think it is Ray who is more guilty of selective quotation because what he is trying to prove is quite different than what Webster is attempting to prove.  Ray is seeking to show that the Bishop of Rome was the universal bishop of the entire Church, and therefore he must prove that the Father's writings as a whole support this view.  Also, this book deals with several pieces of writing that Ray conveniently leaves untouched such as Gregory's letter to the bishop of Constantinople;  This letter from Gregory is devastating to the Roman Catholic case, and is not even mentioned by Ray.<br />Although I think this book is strong, I do think it suffers from a few weaknesses.  I think Stephen Ray's assertion that Webster has not dealt with all of the evidence is fair.  There is one quote in particular by Cyprian that Ray refers to in his book that Webster ignores.  By not dealing with this statement Webster leaves a big hole in his main argument and is open to attack.  Also, I don't think Webster devotes enough attention towards the earliest writings of Clement and Ignatius.  Ray does a superb job of arguing from these sources and showing how the Bishop of Rome was the final Bishop to be consulted when disagreements arose in the Church.  If Webster wants to buttress his argument he should wrestle with these texts on a deeper level.  Nevertheless, I can't blame Webster for not spending a lot of time on these texts since his primary purpose is to show that the rock of Matthew 16 according to the Fathers was not Peter or the Bishops of Rome.<br />This is a very convincing book and I believe it will be very difficult for any Roman apologist to refute this work since it is very thorough and leaves virtually no room for a Roman Catholic rebuttal.  To get the full picture read this book in conjuction with Stephen Ray's, Upon this Rock, and make your own informed decision.  Although I believe both books are well written and provide good defensive for arguments for both sides, I believe Webster's argument is the more convincing of the two.oman Catholic case, and is not even mentioned by Ray.<br />Although I think this book is strong, I do think it suffers from a few weaknesses.  I think Stephen Ray's assertion that Webster has not dealt with all of the evidence is fair.  There is one quote in particular by Cyprian that Ray refers to in his book that Webster ignores.  By not dealing with this statement Webster leaves a big hole in his main argument and is open to attack.  Also, I don't think Webster devotes enough attention towards the earliest writings of Clement and Ignatius.  Ray does a superb job of arguing from these sources and showing how the Bishop of Rome was the final Bishop to be consulted when disagreements arose in the Church.  If Webster wants to buttress his argument he should wrestle with these texts on a deeper level.  Nevertheless, I can't blame Webster for not spending a lot of time on these texts since his primary purpose is to show that the rock of Matthew 16 according to the Fathers was not Peter or the Bishops of Rome.<br />This is a very convincing book and I believe it will be very difficult for any Roman apologist to refute this work since it is very thorough and leaves virtually no room for a Roman Catholic rebuttal.  To get the full picture read this book in conjuction with Stephen Ray's, Upon this Rock, and make your own informed decision.  Although I believe both books are well written and provide good defensive for arguments for both sides, I believe Webster's argument is the more convincing of the two.	2003-10-25
US	36881957	RLTWJ4ZCT817E	0938635689	220413786	The Orthodox Veneration of Mary The Birthgiver of God	Books	4	56	62	N	N	Marian devotion Orthodox style	If anyone has read any of my previous reviews they are probably a little perplexed over the high rating I gave this book, especially after I was so critical in my reviews of Scott Hahn's book, Hail, Holy Queen, and Fulton Sheen's book, the World's First Love.  The reason why I have given this book a higher rating is because I actually agree with much that was said, and I believe the Orthodox have avoided the extreme elevation that many Catholics have granted to Mary.  That being said, I would like to analyze the arguments presented in this book and state why I believed many of them were valid.  First, many of the arguments presented in this book aimed at defending the Theotokos are arguments that evolved very early in Church history.  In fact, many of the things discussed in this book, Mary's perpetual virginity, and her definition as the Theotokos were doctrines that were readily accepted by the Reformers.  Therefore, many of the things argued for in this book are not alien to Protestant teaching, but were in fact inherent in Protestant teaching and weren't eschewed until centuries later.  I believe that the arguments made in this book that Mary was a perpetual virgin and that Jesus' brothers were step-brothers from a previous marriage of Joseph is not only a substantive argument, but makes sense of the Scriptural data provided.<br />Second, I believe that the idea that Mary is the Theotokos is not only valid but is also a valid development obtained from Scripture.  The problem with most arises when this term is translated into the Mother of God which is a loose translation, but is more accurately rendered as she who gave birth to God.  The Orthodox regularly refer to Mary by her title Theotokos, and only usually translate it as Mother of God for convenience in dialogue with Western Christians.  I am firmly convinced that anyone who objects to such a title is objecting to the idea that Christ was both fully human and fully divine, and is therefore either Nestorian or some other form of unorthodox Christian.  In fact, as far as the Eastern Orthodox are concerned the only Mariological dogma taught within the Church is that Mary is truly the Theotokos.  This is certainly not a hard idea to accept since it is 100% true.<br />I believe this book is also truthful because Father John truthfully presents why the Roman Catholic dogma of the Immaculate Conception is unscriptural and dangerous because of the way it elevates the Mother of God.  If Mary was immune from original sin, than she could not sin out of necessity and not because she chose not to sin.  Therefore, the idea of the sinlessness of Mary becomes a theological necessity.  In addition, the assumption of the Virgin becomes a necessity because if Mary was free from original sin and not subject to the divine punishment of death, than she could not die and had to be assumed by God into heaven.  Furthermore, such a doctrine totally destroys the idea of Mary's cooperation with God in giving full agreement to be God's vessel to bring Jesus into the world.  If Mary was immaculately conceived and free from all sin than she had to submit to God's request by necessity and not by choice.  Therefore, Mary's obedience to God is decreased in significance and elevating Mary to such a high position is done because she is so different from humanity by nature, and not by choice, submission and obedience.<br />The reason why I gave this book 4 stars instead of 5 is because of the question of the assumption.  I am glad the Orthodox have not defined this doctrine as a matter of faith like the Catholic Church has done.  The assumption is a teaching I don't have a problem with in essence, but which I don't readily accept since it is not contained in Scripture and belongs more in the realm of a Church tradition.  I understand how one can believe in such an idea and I can rationalize it in my own mind, but I am not fully convinced of it's truthfulness.  Overall, I think this is a wonderful littlebook and gives a brief description as to why Marian devotion is a logical addition to Christological devotion.book and gives a brief description as to why Marian devotion is a logical addition to Christological devotion.	2003-10-25
US	36881957	R1EGSS41NG98IE	0898707234	479705252	Upon This Rock: St. Peter and the Primacy of Rome in Scripture and the Early Church (Modern Apologetics Library)	Books	4	30	38	N	N	The best Catholic work on the papacy	Stephen Ray, a former Baptist and now convert to Catholicism, tackles the heavily debated issue of the papacy.  As far as Roman Catholic apologetics goes, this book is one of the best and is without a doubt the best Catholic book available defending the papacy.  Ray begins his book by discussing the issue of whether Peter ever resided in Rome.  Ray begins by analyzing the Bible verse I Peter 5:13 and illustrates how this enigmatic reference to Babylon can only be speaking about Rome.  Ray argues for this primarily on two reasons: 1.) Babylon was a code word used for Rome and 2.) there were no recognized and documented Christian settlements in the actual city of Babylon.  With this proof established Ray then begins to document references from the Early Church Fathers validating Peter's presence in Rome.  His list is impressive and he devotes the first 100 pages of his book to prove that Peter was in fact in Rome.  Finally, he deals with some of the comments made by other Christians who doubted Peter's presence in Rome.  This includes wrestling with remarks made by John Calvin and other present day fundamentalists who deny this historic truth.  I think Mr. Ray did an excellent job of making his case, my only complaint is that the belief that Peter resided in Rome has been established and believed by a majority of Christians, even non-Catholic ones.  The only ones who still argue for such an erroneous position are virulent fundamentalists who dislike everything Catholic.<br />In the second half of his book, Mr. Ray attempts to prove that the Papacy was in fact granted a historical and successive power of jurisdictional rule.  I think Ray does a good job of arguing for such a concept, but that his argument isn't airtight and is not a slam dunk case.  First, his quotations from the Early Church Fathers are selective, and he doesn't do a good job of clarifying the context from which those quotes are taken.  Second, Mr. Ray does not truly take William Webster's argument to heart because Ray never attempts to prove that the modern understanding of the papacy is the same as it was in the Early Church.  Relying on an argument from silence will not work because the argument from silence could just as easily support the opposing position.  What is needed is positive proof that the Fathers believed that the Bishop of Rome was the ruling Bishop supreme over the rest of the Church.  In fact, I think a vast majority of Ray's proof-texts could just as easily fit in with an Orthodox understanding of the Bishop of Rome as the the bishop with the primacy of honor, and a limited role in singly defining Church issues.  Finally, Ray weakens his case by not dealing adequately with all of the evidence that disproves his case.  In the beginning of the book he says that no Church Father ever questioned the Pope's authority to intervene in local Church affairs, but Cyprian and Augustine did do just this.  Cyprian would not abide by Pope Stephen's demands and showed that some Bishops did question the Pope's rights thus disproving Mr. Ray's assertion.  Lastly, Ray does not even mention documents like the letter of Gregory the Great to the Bishop of Constantinople that completely disprove his argument.  In this letter Gregory of Rome says that no bishop should be made a bishop above bishops because to elevate oneself to this rank would make all other bishops no longer bishops.  Yet, this is exactly what the Gregorian Reformes did when they made themselves Universal pontiff over the entire Church, thus strictly contradicting what Gregory the Great, a previous Pope, had said.<br />All in all, this work is a great work for any Catholic who wants to understand the historical roots and reasoning for the papacy.  The case is well argued for, well developed, and well documented.  Nevertheless, this book still contains some serious weak spots and is not as air tight and concrete as some would like to maintain.  To understand both sides of the argument read this book in conjunction with William Webster's, The Matthew 16 Controversey.  By reading both books I think the reader will be able to understand both sides of the argument and make an informed decision on their own.k in conjunction with William Webster's, The Matthew 16 Controversey.  By reading both books I think the reader will be able to understand both sides of the argument and make an informed decision on their own.	2003-10-24
US	36881957	R11XPYJY28PGF0	0801070791	367661213	The Justification of God: An Exegetical and Theological Study of Romans 9:1-23	Books	4	22	30	N	N	The best Reformed treatment of Romans 9	This book is definitely a sound defense of predestination theology and is one of the best books on the subject, period.  Dr. Piper systematically goes through Romans 9: 1-23 and analyzes the text in the original Greek.  Piper is a capable and qualified exegete and his knowledge of the Greek language and grammar is excellent.  I believe that Piper does an excellent job of supporting his thesis and backing it up with solid exegesis, but there are still some lingering questions I have, and I don't believe this work is above scholarly criticism.<br />The positive aspects of this work are it's solid scriptural exegesis and it's coherent and cohesive system of argumentation.  Piper does an awesome job of demonstrating why he believes the Reformed view of individual predestination is correct, and he supports his argument with solid evidence.  I really wish someone from the opposing camp would produce a work of this calibre.  Also, Piper's work is heavily supported by scholars and the research is simply phenomenal.  Dr. Piper is to be applauded for his work because he doesn't ignore and brush aside objections or differing interpretations to his views, but instead interacts with them and shows why he believes they are incorrect.  Finally, this work is very convincing and many if not most will find themselves agreeing with Piper's thesis by the time they finish this book.<br />That being said, I am not fully convinced that Piper's argument is correct for several reasons.  First, Piper's opening defense hinges on the thesis that the list of privileges announced in Romans 9: 4-5 are soteriological in essence.  Piper builds his case by showing that a word like uiothesia means divine sonship and is always used in reference to God's saving purpose.  I wasn't convinced by this argument because the Old Covenant, or the Sinaitic Covenant, was by nature not a saving covenant.  The book of Deuteronomy proves this over and over again because the whole purpose of this Covenant with Israel was to bestow physical and earthly blessings and not spiritual and salvific blessings.  In fact, nowhere does God promise the Israelites salvation in return for obedience to the covenant in the Old Testament.  Yes, physical Israel was called God's son in the Old Testament but this never implied salvific priviliges or rights.  Second, I think Piper overlooks a key phrase in Romans 9:8 and that is the term &quot;children of the promise.&quot;  Properly understood, I think this phrase provides the key answer to Paul's question as to why not all of physical Israel is saved.  In Galatians 3: 15-22 Paul deals with this issue and provides the answer as to exactly who or what constitutes spiritual Israel.  The Jews were contending that since they were Abraham's natural descendants they must be saved since God made this promise to Abraham and to his seed.  The Jews misunderstood the word seed and believed it meant all of Abraham's descendants.  Paul refutes this idea and illustrates that the promise was made to Abraham and to his seed(singular), and that this seed is Jesus Christ.  Therefore, in Paul's mind there are two Israel's:  one is natural or fleshly Israel, and the other is the spiritual Israel or the children of the promise.  I think Piper's idea of the two Israel's being the Israel of the flesh and the Israel of the election does not cohere with the total view of Pauline theology that is constructed from all of his works.  Thus, Paul answers his objectors by showing that not all Israel is saved because not all Israel are children of the promise and that is what counts towards salvation.<br />In addition, Piper's insistence that faith is subsumed under the aegis of the actions of willing and running is extremely suspect.  To support this view Piper refers to Galatians 5:7 and I Thessalonians 1:3 to prove that faith is an action of willing.  Galatians 5:7 has nothing to do with this subject, and could only be remotely related if 5:6 is intended to be referenced aswell.  Galatians 5:6 speaks of one's faith working or operating through love;  The Greek word energeia describes an operation, and therefore this verse is describing how one's faith works or operates, it says nothing about faith being a work.  Therefore, Piper's reference to Galatians 5:7 is unwarranted and does not support his point.  Similarly, I Thessalonians 1:3 seems to have in mind works of faith or an operative faith and not faith as a work.  So again this verse does not support Piper's view that faith is some kind of work included under Paul's willing and running categories.  The Greek word for faith is pistis and simply means trust.  If I trust that an airplane will get me from point A to point B without crashing does my trust in that airplane's ability contribute to or faciliate it's operation?  Obviously not!<br />For those of you who are confused about the 4 stars after reading this review don't be.  This book is an excellent and scholarly piece of literature and one that nicely defends it's viewpoint.  That being said, I did not agree with parts of it and that is why this review contains more criticism than praise.  If you are a Calvinist looking to your strengthen your beliefs then read this book, if you are an Arminian wishing to challange your views then read this book.well.  Galatians 5:6 speaks of one's faith working or operating through love;  The Greek word energeia describes an operation, and therefore this verse is describing how one's faith works or operates, it says nothing about faith being a work.  Therefore, Piper's reference to Galatians 5:7 is unwarranted and does not support his point.  Similarly, I Thessalonians 1:3 seems to have in mind works of faith or an operative faith and not faith as a work.  So again this verse does not support Piper's view that faith is some kind of work included under Paul's willing and running categories.  The Greek word for faith is pistis and simply means trust.  If I trust that an airplane will get me from point A to point B without crashing does my trust in that airplane's ability contribute to or faciliate it's operation?  Obviously not!<br />For those of you who are confused about the 4 stars after reading this review don't be.  This book is an excellent and scholarly piece of literature and one that nicely defends it's viewpoint.  That being said, I did not agree with parts of it and that is why this review contains more criticism than praise.  If you are a Calvinist looking to your strengthen your beliefs then read this book, if you are an Arminian wishing to challange your views then read this book.	2003-10-18
US	36881957	R2XCQ5GQPME62X	0764225219	659539617	Chosen But Free	Books	3	16	25	N	N	Not as bad as I thought!	I read Dr. James White's book, The Potter's Freedom, awhile back now, but never felt the urge to finish reading Geisler's book.  Why, you ask?  Well, I took Mr. White at his word and believed what he had to say about Geisler's work and therefore felt that I didn't need to read this book to understand what Geisler was attempting to say.  Nevertheless, I finally got around to reading Norman Geisler's book and am amazed to say, that it was not as bad as it was made out to be.  That being said I do believe the book suffers from some serious weaknesses, but overall the book has it's advantages and disadvantages.<br />First, I will deal with the disadvantages because I think they drag the work down and make it weaker than it could have been.  Geisler is driven more by philosophical argumentation than by biblical hermeneutics and wrestling with Scripture to understand what it is truly saying.  To Mr. White's credit, PF did contain more exegesis and solid scriptural argumenation and therefore White's case was more biblially oriented and coherent.  Geisler on the other hand, argues more within the confines of an Aquinas like philosophical system.  Not to say that this is a bad thing, but doing so at the expense of biblical exegesis is a big mistake.  Geisler repeatedly refernces several Scriptures to prove his point, but he rarely interacts with those verses to determine their true meaning.  Moreover, when he does deal with Scripture passages Geisler opts for rapid fire proof texting, and offers limited treatment on each text.  Geisler opts for quantity over quality and it severly detracts from this work.  Second, Geisler's distinction between the moderate Calvinist idea of election in accordance with foreknowledge and the Arminian idea of election based on foreknowledge is a confusing idea and not well explained.  In fact, I think most Arminians would agree with Geisler's model of God electing in accordance with His foreknowledge, that is knowing what will happen and brining it to pass.  If Geisler could have demonstrated that one idea was different from the other then I think he would have made a stronger case.<br />Now, for the positive aspects of this book.  I appreciated Geisler's method of argumenation.  CBF contains numerous quotes from several well known Calvinist authors like RC Sproul, Jonathan Edwards, and others.  Geisler wrestles with traditional Reformed doctrine by assessing the arguments of seveal of the systems well known and loved apologists.  Next, virtually every traditional Calvinist takes issue with Geisler's insistence that fallen man can receive God's gift of salvation.  Yet, this is the view of traditional Dispensational Calvinists like Lewis Sperry Chafer and Miles J. Stanford.  These men were very Calvinistic in their Scriptural understanding but they did not hold to the traditional idea of total depravity, or man being completely dead and unable to do anything in sin.  Dispensational Calvinists argue that dead in sin just means separation not total deadness, and that fallen man can't come unto God, but when the gospel comes unto man with power, that man can respond to it.  In fact, Miles Stanford clearly demonstrates that being dead in sin means we are separated from God, and he shows from John 5:25 that spiritually dead individuals can respond to God.  Therefore, Geisler's view that men can respond to God and receive the gift of salvation is an established view and one that is held by Dispensational Calvinists and has Scriptural support.  Geisler does an admirable job of demonstrating that if spiritual death is conceived of in the way that traditional Calvinist's do, then the second death can be nothing else but annihalation accompanied by inability to anything, and this view is to be rejected as unscriptural.  Also, I think Geisler's argument here is stronger than White's because if depravity is total deadness and inability as White argues, then mankind cannot do anything whether it be good or bad.  Whiteis inconsistent on this point, stating that men are spiritually dead in sin and need Spiritual resurrection, but yet at the same time they are in spiritual rebellion against God and committing sin.  If men are rebelling spiritually, then they aren't dead and the traditional Calvinist view is wrong.  Second, Geisler's argument that the gift of salvation is unconditional from the standpoint of the giver, but conditional from the standpoint of the receiver makes sense.  James White never really refutes this idea and I think it is an argument with some substance.  Furthermore, Geisler shows from numerous scripture passages that unlimited atonement makes sense, and that limited atonement does not make sense of all that Scripture has to say on this issue.  Dr. White does deal with some of Geisler's arguments, but as Geisler says in his response, White doesn't deal with several key passages leaving room for disagreement on the issue.<br />Overall, this is a decent book with some positive aspects, it also has several weaknesses that detract from it's effectiveness.  Overall, I think James White's book is the stronger of the two, but Geisler's book is no pushover.  Geisler nicely illustrates how traditional Calvinism is inconsistent on several key issues, and cannot effectively deal with the problem of evil and the source of human actions.  Geisler's work is definitely not the most convincing work, but it does do enough damage to make one have some serious questions about traditional Reformed teaching.is inconsistent on this point, stating that men are spiritually dead in sin and need Spiritual resurrection, but yet at the same time they are in spiritual rebellion against God and committing sin.  If men are rebelling spiritually, then they aren't dead and the traditional Calvinist view is wrong.  Second, Geisler's argument that the gift of salvation is unconditional from the standpoint of the giver, but conditional from the standpoint of the receiver makes sense.  James White never really refutes this idea and I think it is an argument with some substance.  Furthermore, Geisler shows from numerous scripture passages that unlimited atonement makes sense, and that limited atonement does not make sense of all that Scripture has to say on this issue.  Dr. White does deal with some of Geisler's arguments, but as Geisler says in his response, White doesn't deal with several key passages leaving room for disagreement on the issue.<br />Overall, this is a decent book with some positive aspects, it also has several weaknesses that detract from it's effectiveness.  Overall, I think James White's book is the stronger of the two, but Geisler's book is no pushover.  Geisler nicely illustrates how traditional Calvinism is inconsistent on several key issues, and cannot effectively deal with the problem of evil and the source of human actions.  Geisler's work is definitely not the most convincing work, but it does do enough damage to make one have some serious questions about traditional Reformed teaching.	2003-10-18
US	36881957	R2HJ8SGNA6LYVR	0913836583	566465397	The Orthodox Way	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Further introduction to the Orthodox Church	If anyone has read Ware's book, The Orthodox Church, then this book is a must read.  For those who haven't read Ware's introductory work on Orthodoxy, this book will still be enlightening and rewarding.<br />Bishop Ware's main purpose in this book is to introduce the reader to the more salient and deeper teachings of the Orthdox Christian faith.  Ware begins by arguing that God is an ineffable and incomprehensible mystery that cannot be understood by the human mind.  This squares well with traditional Eastern teaching, but not so well with Western paradigms.  The Orthodox believe that God's Essence and Uncreated Divine Energies are two distinct and separate concepts, whereas the West, following after Augustine, believe that God's essence and energy are one and the same.  Therefore, the Orthodox believe that God in His essence is completely mysterious and unknowable by man, but God's energies may be perceived and understood.  Also, the Orthodox employ a different method in order to understand and know God called the apophatic approach.  This method states that one can know something about God by understanding what God is not.  I think this is a valuable method and one that needs to be utilized more by Christians of a Western mindset.<br />Next Ware deals with the traditional Orthodox understanding of God as Trinity.  Ware argues that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are one in essence but consist as three separate persons.  Nothing really new or groundbreaking here, but Ware does an admirable job of defending the traditional Christian doctrine of the Trinity.  The area where many will disagree with him is on the issue of the procession of the Holy Spirit.  The Orthodox believe that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father as Jesus says in John 15:26, whereas the West holds that the Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son.  Ware argues that to hold that the Spirit proceeds from both the Father and the Son can have disastrous consequences by leading one to confuse the distinctive characteristics possessed by each Divine person.  Also, he believes that since such an idea was a later unauthorized addition to the creed, and not argued for by the Eastern Fathers of the Church it is to be rejected.  Finally, Ware deals with the subject of God as creator and God in relation to man.  Once again, one won't find to much disagreement between traditional Eastern teaching and Western teaching, but there are a few differences.  The Orthodox have a completely different understanding of original sin.  They believe that mankind is not guilty of Adam and Eve's sin since they can only be guilty of that transgression, but that we all bear the consequences of their disobedience.  Since the human race exists as a corporate solidarity Ware argues, mankind suffers evil, pain, death and sin because we are related to and descend from Adam and Eve.<br />Lastly, Ware deals with the subject of God as man and God as Spirit.  Ware shows why the Incarnation was an absolute necessity because of the sinfulness and fallen nature of mankind.  He speaks of the redemptive significance of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and here is where Ware goes off the beaten track by hinting that maybe even Satan and the fallen angels will eventually be redeemed.  I believe that Scripture seriously mittigates against such a view and leaves no doubt about the fate of Satan and his demons.  Also, Ware's treatment of spiritual toll houses and the 40 journey after death are odd and are not well established teachings within Orthodoxy.  In fact, such a teaching seems to have more in common with early pagan beliefs than early Christian teaching.  Although the 40 days following one's death is an imporant time in Orthodoxy, the belief that one is tested and tried on a path of toll houses is not a common teaching.  Overall, this book is an excellent work on the basic tenets of the Orthodox Christian faith.  Although it does have some awkward elements it is still an excellent book and one that should be read by anyone interested in learning more about the Orthodox Church.t book and one that should be read by anyone interested in learning more about the Orthodox Church.	2003-10-18
US	36881957	R3M8RK1RRZNM31	0924722002	786978960	Will the Real Heretics Please Stand Up: A New Look at Today's Evangelical Church in the Light of Early Christianity	Books	5	73	85	N	N	A valid assessment of American Evangelicalism	Seldom has a book challenged my views as much as Mr. Bercot's work has done.  David Bercot is an individual qualified to assess exactly just what the Early Christian community taught and believed.  Not only is he a lawyer, but he also has a Master of Divinity degree and is an accredited member of the National Patristics Society.  What impressed me most about this work was the standard that Mr. Bercot employed to determine if a teaching was truly Apostolic in origin and a valid belief of the Christian community.  If a teaching was not held by several Fathers of the same time period from different geographical locations, then that teaching would not be included in the book.<br />What really convicted me was how different my brand of Christianity is from that of the earliest followers of the Apostles and their Spiritual descendants.  For instance, Bercot notes how the Early Church believed that Jesus' teachings in the Synoptic gospels were literal.  Sure, they understood that Jesus wasn't commanding us to literally pluck out our eyes, but many parts of Jesus' teaching that they understood literally, todays Christian community has watered down or spiritualized to accomodate our 21st century mentality.  For example, how many believe that Jesus really wanted us to sell everything that we own and follow Him?  I know of no church that teaches such a doctrine and if one were to teach this they would probably be regarded as strange, bizarre and out of their mind.  Yet, this is exactly how the Early Church understood Jesus' message and this is what compelled Cyprian, the great 3rd century bishop of Carthage, to liquidate his vast fortune and follow Jesus with everything that he had.  Most Christians today are victims of the materialistic message of our capitalistic culture and they don't even realize it;  Virtually every church teaches that wealth and possessions are good things and that they are signs of God's blessings.  Many believe that as long as they don't diligently pursue wealth and possessions that they are ok, but Jesus' message was simple, a man cannot serve two masters because he will either hate one and love the other.  This is exactly what most Christians do, believing that they can pursue some things as long as they don't do it excessively.  Yet, this was not the teaching of the Early Church and it was not how they understood Jesus' gospel.  I am not exempting myself from such criticism because I am guilty of such practices myself, and thanks to this book I have begun to reevaluate my beliefs.<br />Another aspect of this book that convicted me was Bercot's explanation of the Early Christians' view of entertainment.  I felt extremely uneasy when I read what Bercot had to say because I knew I was guilty of such practices.  I realized I needed to exercise more caution and discretion in deciding what was acceptable to view because such material can and does have an impact on my spiritual well-being.  Furthermore, Bercot's treatment of how the Early Christians viewed baptism should serve as a valuable wake up call to most of Christendom that has substituted man made inventions in place of the biblical practice of the early Christian community.<br />One thing about this book, it will not be liked by those of the Reformed persuasion.  Bercot takes serious issue with Martin Luther and Augustine and disagrees with the Reformation doctrine of Sola Fide.  Disagree with him all you like, he proves his point by showing that the Early Church insisted that obedience and a life of holiness were necessary for salvation.  Moreover, Bercot disagrees with the doctrine of predestination believing that such a teaching has more in common with Gnosticism than with Apostolic Christianity.  Again, disagree with him all you want, but Bercot clearly demonstrates that the Christians of the 2nd and 3rd centuries did not believe in unconditional election, but upheld the idea of free will.  For those who argue that the ancient concept of fate and Augustinian predestination are different ideas, that argument will not work.  Martin Luther argued in favor of predestination by illustrating how pagans believed in fate and arguing that even pagans relized the truth, showing that Luther believed predestination and fate to be one and the same.  Also, Methodius writing in the 3rd century argued that those favoring fate and disavowing free will are guilty of making God the author of evils.  Thus, Methodius shows that he equated fate with God and this is squarely predestinationism.<br />Anyways, buy this book to discover more about the beliefs of the Early Church.  You may not agree with everything Mr. Bercot has to offer but I guarantee it will force you to reassess many of the teachings and principles you currently adhere to and believe in.nian predestination are different ideas, that argument will not work.  Martin Luther argued in favor of predestination by illustrating how pagans believed in fate and arguing that even pagans relized the truth, showing that Luther believed predestination and fate to be one and the same.  Also, Methodius writing in the 3rd century argued that those favoring fate and disavowing free will are guilty of making God the author of evils.  Thus, Methodius shows that he equated fate with God and this is squarely predestinationism.<br />Anyways, buy this book to discover more about the beliefs of the Early Church.  You may not agree with everything Mr. Bercot has to offer but I guarantee it will force you to reassess many of the teachings and principles you currently adhere to and believe in.	2003-10-18
US	36881957	R2ZX773WY8IHH7	0802808506	277186708	Created in God's Image	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Nice book on the question of the Image of God	Anthony Hoekema does an admirable job of explaining and defending a biblical view of man by arguing that man is both a creature and a person.  Man is a creature in the sense that he is totally dependent on God for everything he has and is, but man is also a person who has freedom and can make choices.  Thus in Hoekema's words man is a created person and herein lies the central mystery of biblical anthropology.  How can man be both a created person when supporting one aspect of man's being virtually eliminates any support for the other aspect.  I think this is the primary concern that drives Hoekema's work and it is one that he think he deals with admirably in the book.<br />I liked how Hoekema showed from biblical exegesis that the image of God is retained in man, although damaged, and is not destroyed.  This is one area of belief where most Reformed theologians are either oppossed to Hoekema or utterly inconsistent.  Hoekema argues from Scripture and demonstrates how the view of Berkouwer that God's image in man is gone and is only said to be there as a possibility is wrong.  Furthermore, he shows how John Calvin was inconsistent on this question at one point saying the image is destroyed and at another saying the image of God is present in man in some capacity and this is why we should love all men.  Moreover, I like how Hoekema dealt with the views of other great Christian thinkers like Ireneaus, Aquinas, and Barth on the question.  Furthermore, I really enjoyed Hoekema's argument that man is a psycho-psomatic unity and is composed of both a body and a soul.  I think Hoekema illustrates why the view of man as trichotomy of body, soul and spirit is unwarranted.  Hoekema argues that soul and spirit are virtual synonyms in the Bible and I believe he is correct. Lastly, I enjoyed Hoekema's treatment of the subject of man's self-image.  I think that this was an interesting and stimulation chapter in the book.<br />The were a few areas where I thought the book was weak, but I think this was caused more by confusing argumentation than by poor reasoning or exegesis.  I wish Hoekema would have gone deeper into the question of how God is totally sovereign in salvation, but yet man still must respond in faith.  Since Hoekema lies squarely within the traditional Reformed camp and seems to espouse the view that regeneration proceeds faith, I don't see one can argue that it is man's responsibility to respond in faith since this only happens in the spiritually revived.  Also, I think the doctrine of common grace is one with little scriptural support.  Now, I don't deny that such grace may exist, but I think the Reformed distinction between common and irresistible or sufficient and efficient graces is one that is not directly supported by the Bible.  In fact, such a notion seems to be more a necessary construct of Reformed theology than it is a valid component of Scripture.<br />All in all, Hoekema's book is an excellent discussion on the question of the image of God in mankind.  Hoekema states his point by using, Scripture, exegesis, and some Greek word studies.  Although there are few elements that detract from the overall quality of this work it is still an excellent piece of literature and an nice defense of modern Reformed scholarship on the issue., but I think this was caused more by confusing argumentation than by poor reasoning or exegesis.  I wish Hoekema would have gone deeper into the question of how God is totally sovereign in salvation, but yet man still must respond in faith.  Since Hoekema lies squarely within the traditional Reformed camp and seems to espouse the view that regeneration proceeds faith, I don't see one can argue that it is man's responsibility to respond in faith since this only happens in the spiritually revived.  Also, I think the doctrine of common grace is one with little scriptural support.  Now, I don't deny that such grace may exist, but I think the Reformed distinction between common and irresistible or sufficient and efficient graces is one that is not directly supported by the Bible.  In fact, such a notion seems to be more a necessary construct of Reformed theology than it is a valid component of Scripture.<br />All in all, Hoekema's book is an excellent discussion on the question of the image of God in mankind.  Hoekema states his point by using, Scripture, exegesis, and some Greek word studies.  Although there are few elements that detract from the overall quality of this work it is still an excellent piece of literature and an nice defense of modern Reformed scholarship on the issue.	2003-10-18
US	36881957	R1WZ0SWXW4312	083082605X	335354664	Original Sin: Illuminating the Riddle (New Studies in Biblical Theology)	Books	4	30	30	N	N	One of the best books on original sin	I read this book in conjunction with John Murray's book, The Imputation of Adam's Sin.  I believe Blocher's book to be the stronger and more convincing of the two since Murray's work is older and is only designed to account for the classic Reformed position.  The strength of Blocher's work lies in the fact that it attempts to discuss multiple treatments on the issue of original sin, and give the strengths and weaknesses of each side.  I also believe, like Blocher, that a correct understanding of original sin is vital to a correct understanding of the human condition, our sinfulness, and our need for salvation and redemption.<br />The chapter I enjoyed the most was Blocher's treatment of Romans 5.  He believes that there are two main schools of thought that have attempted to understand this passage.  One school, that of a looser interpretation, likes to be very flexible in how it views Adam's relation to Christ's.  The other school, that of a stricter interpretation, likes to view Adam's relation to Christ as extremely similar.  Blocher says the school of looser interpretation is more Pelagian, while the school of strict interpretation is more Augustinian in it's mindset.<br />I believe that Blocher deals fairly with both sides assessing their respective strengths and weaknesses.  When it comes to the school of a looser interpretation, Blocher notes that they are staunch defenders of individual responsibility for sin, and recognize the disatrous consequeces that can occur when one believes in inherited guilt(for instance Augustine's insistence that unbaptized children are damned to hell because they are born guilty).  Nevertheless, their view that Paul is speaking merely of a source or fountainhead of unrighteousness in this passage just doesn't make sense since Paul seems to attribute so much to Adam's disobedience.<br />As for the stricter school, Blocher notes that their view is more coherent and makes better sense of the text, but is not immune from criticism.  First, Paul's focus on the people from Adam to Moses is not easily accounted for under the strict view.  Blocher shows how many exegetes have attempted to refute Paul by saying there was law in effect at that time, which clearly shows they believe Paul didn't know what he was talking about.  Also, Blocher realizes that Scripture does set a precedent for ackowledging that an individual can suffer the consequences for another's sin and not be personally guilty of that sin.  He uses the example of David in 2 Samuel 24 as an example.  Individuals from the strict school assert that to suffer the consequences of one's sin without the guilt, is just as unjust as to be guilty of one's sin when one is personally not guilty.  I, along with Blocher, seriously question the validity of this statement, especailly since this principle is such a regular part of our everyday experience.<br />Finally, I believe Blocher's chapter on Original Sin as the key to the human experience to be excellent.  Without the doctrine of original sin, humanity just cannot explain the pervasive evil and wickedness that exists around us.  Original sin is the key to understanding the human experience because it tells us that human beings are sinful and that they do have a tremendous tendency to commit sin.  Armed with this knowledge, it is much easier to make sense of this fallen and corrupt world, much easier than it would be if we all believed that we are born naturally good and that evil tendencies take root somewhere along the line in our early existence.  This book is an excellent treatment on a neglected doctrine in most churches today, and is well worth reading.irst, Paul's focus on the people from Adam to Moses is not easily accounted for under the strict view.  Blocher shows how many exegetes have attempted to refute Paul by saying there was law in effect at that time, which clearly shows they believe Paul didn't know what he was talking about.  Also, Blocher realizes that Scripture does set a precedent for ackowledging that an individual can suffer the consequences for another's sin and not be personally guilty of that sin.  He uses the example of David in 2 Samuel 24 as an example.  Individuals from the strict school assert that to suffer the consequences of one's sin without the guilt, is just as unjust as to be guilty of one's sin when one is personally not guilty.  I, along with Blocher, seriously question the validity of this statement, especailly since this principle is such a regular part of our everyday experience.<br />Finally, I believe Blocher's chapter on Original Sin as the key to the human experience to be excellent.  Without the doctrine of original sin, humanity just cannot explain the pervasive evil and wickedness that exists around us.  Original sin is the key to understanding the human experience because it tells us that human beings are sinful and that they do have a tremendous tendency to commit sin.  Armed with this knowledge, it is much easier to make sense of this fallen and corrupt world, much easier than it would be if we all believed that we are born naturally good and that evil tendencies take root somewhere along the line in our early existence.  This book is an excellent treatment on a neglected doctrine in most churches today, and is well worth reading.	2003-10-02
US	36881957	RFU3BQLPDPK4P	1565633571	737410466	A Dictionary of Early Christian Beliefs: A Reference Guide to More Than 700 Topics Discussed by the Early Church Fathers	Books	5	34	40	N	N	Excellent!	There is a resurging interest among Protestants to understand what the Early Church taught and believed.  I believe a book like this one can be instrumental in furthering that search and introducing a whole generation of Christians to the writings of these wonderful, devout, and pious men.  This book is absolutely invaluable for anyone who wants to research what the Ante-Nice Fathers taught on any given topic.  Also, Bercot's concise and standard way of referencing each Father's works makes it easy to go back to the original sources and do further resarch by examining the entire text.<br />There may be some who will not like what the Father's teach, but that is to be expected.  A vast majority of Evangelical churches in America do not conform either in principle or in practice to what these godly men taught.  I think that stauch Calvinist's will be the most disturbed by their writings because the Early Church Fathers were unequivocally more supportive of the view that mankind can and must respond to God.  Furthermore, they did not teach unconditional election, perseverance of the saints, limited atonement, or irresistable grace.  In fact, it was the Gnostics who held views similar to those expressed above.  The response by most will be that these men just fell into error and didn't understand the gospel, but then the question must be asked, why do individuals who lived 1,500 years after the Apostles understand it better than the Fathers did?  I do not mention Augustine because his views are not those of traditional 5 point Calvinists, and therefore the view followed by many is not Augustine's view but that of the Reformers.<br />Buy this work if you interested in discovering what the Early Fathers believed, and use it as an introduction and guide to further study of their writings.  It is by no means an exhaustive study of the entire corpus of their literature, but is a great starting point for introductory study.	2003-10-02
US	36881957	RYLKACK088UGR	0875523412	602688946	The Imputation of Adam's Sin	Books	3	14	22	N	N	Still nothing but a theory	I know there are many individuals who will disagree with my assessment of Murray's work, but the idea of the imputation of Adam's sin is still a framework constructed to account for humanity's sinfulness, and is one that is not defended by overwhelming amounts of Scripture.  That being said, I do agree with Murray on several points.  His development of the concept of corporate solidarity is well needed and is a concept that is common to Old Testament Judaism.  By examining the books of the Old Testament one will quickly come to realize that Israel was often dealt with as a corporate identity by God;  In other words if one individual sinned, then that sin was treated as the sin of the whole nation.  The best example I can think of in the Old Testament is the story of Achan's sin that is described in Joshua chapter 7.<br />That being said, just because the idea of corporate solidarity can be derived from the Old Testament it does not mean that that principle is valid in the case of Adam.  I think there are many dissimalarities between the two situations that would mittigate against strictly comparing the two.  For instance, Israel was a nation that was called and chosen by God and that contained millions of citizens that defined it's existence as a nation.  When Achan sinned against the Lord, it was said that Israel sinned and the whole nation suffered punishment.  It was the people contemporaneous with Achan who were treated as trangessors and punished by God.  In the case of Adam we are separeted by a vast expanse of time, and yet his sin is still somehow reckoned to be ours.  The two situations just aren't similar enough to warrant a strict comparison.<br />Second, using Romans 5 as a proof text to support the imputation of Adam's sin is interesting, but does suffer from some serious weaknesses.  First, Paul's whole insistence on discussing the period from Adam to Moses in vs. 13-14 is unintelligible to Reformed exegetes.  This digression from his starting point in verse 12 makes no sense, and the fact that he focuses on this group of people is even more disturbing.  Reformed scholars have been unable to deal with Paul's references to sin that is &quot;not like the sin of Adam&quot; and the absence of law in this period.  Another point that weakens this view is that Paul is constantly stressing the one act of obedience to the one act of disobedience.  Reformed scholars say, well Paul's reference to Christ's obedience and our being made righteous by it must be referring to the imputation of Christ's righteousness to our account;  They then say since he is comparing Adam to Christ, Adam's disobedience must be reckoned to our account just like Christ's righteousness.<br />Yet, they overlook that Paul is referring to Jesus's one act of obedience and not to his lifelong, perfect obedience to the law.  The traditional Reformed position is that Christ's perfect, lifelong obedience to the law is reckoned as our righteousness and thus we can stand as sinners justified before God.  In Romans 5, Paul isn't speaking about Christ's perfect obedience to the entire law, but his one act of obedience that made the many  righteous.  Therefore, this verse can't be speaking about the imputation of Christ's righteousness in the standard Reformed sense, and thus the idea of the imputation of Adam's unrighteousness falls with it.  I think John Chrysostom's view of this passage makes sense, in that he saw Paul trying to defend the effects of Christ's death against Jewish attacks.  The Jews would ask, how can one man's obedience upon a tree make anybody righteous?  Paul's answer to them was simple;  He resorts in this passage by responding with a question to Jewish critics asking, how could one man's disobdience at a tree make many unrighteous.  Since the Jewish critic obviously believed in the fall of Adam and it's disastrous effects on humanity, he would then have to recognize that Christ's obedient death on the cross could function in the way Paulsaid it does.  Second, Paul's use of Greek terminology that speaks of being made righteous or made sinners does not facilitate a classic Reformed view.  Murray tries to get around this by translating the Greek as constituted, thus playing off the double entendre;  Constitute could describe the actual inner condition of something, or say something about how one perceives something to be.  Nevertheless, the more accurate Greek rendering is made righteous and made sinners, and therefore Paul seems to be talking about something more than just a legal status.<br />Lastly, this whole viewpoint stands or falls upon the assumption that Adam and God were both parties in a covenant of works in the Garden of Eden.  There is absolutely no Scriptural proof that such a covenant even existed, and to read one into Genesis 2-3 requires some serious eisegesis.  If there was no covenant of works than this theory falls flat on it's face.  This book is a nice defense of the classic Reformed view of immediate imputation, but when the theory is examined under close scrutiny one discovers that it is nothing more than just that, a theory.said it does.  Second, Paul's use of Greek terminology that speaks of being made righteous or made sinners does not facilitate a classic Reformed view.  Murray tries to get around this by translating the Greek as constituted, thus playing off the double entendre;  Constitute could describe the actual inner condition of something, or say something about how one perceives something to be.  Nevertheless, the more accurate Greek rendering is made righteous and made sinners, and therefore Paul seems to be talking about something more than just a legal status.<br />Lastly, this whole viewpoint stands or falls upon the assumption that Adam and God were both parties in a covenant of works in the Garden of Eden.  There is absolutely no Scriptural proof that such a covenant even existed, and to read one into Genesis 2-3 requires some serious eisegesis.  If there was no covenant of works than this theory falls flat on it's face.  This book is a nice defense of the classic Reformed view of immediate imputation, but when the theory is examined under close scrutiny one discovers that it is nothing more than just that, a theory.	2003-10-02
US	36881957	RJ6EGCUPBCLOL	1573580287	795418932	Sola Scriptura: The Protestant Position on the Bible (Reformation Theology Series)	Books	2	32	63	N	N	Attempting to defend the unsupportable	This book represents the efforts of various Reformed theologians and apologists who attempt to prove that Sola Scriptura, one of the watershed doctrines of the Reformation, is both solidly biblical and correct.  Personally, as I have dug deeper into this issue I have become more convinced that Sola Scriptura is not scriptural.  The Bible never attempts to establish this doctrine and when one attempts to defend it they have to resort to clever hermeneutics to make a verse such as 2 Timothy 3:16 teach this doctrine.  I am not saying that this position cannot be argued for, I am just saying that it is not as cut and dry as the authors would like us to believe.<br />The authors attempt to convince the reader that Sola Scriptura was adhered to by the Early Church Fathers(James White), but Dr. White fails to deal with the numerous Fathers who speak about the importance of tradition.  The contributors would also have us believe that Scripture is perspicuous and can be read and interpreted by every believer through the internal witness of the Holy Spirit, but Scripture nowhere states that this is the case.  Instead, Acts 8:30-31 illustrates that Scripture is hard to understand unless we have a guide to teach us and 2 Peter 3:14-18 tells us that Paul's Epistles contain some things that are hard to understand.  Furthermore, Peter warns his audience to be careful and not ruin themselves like the unstable do by interpreting these hard sayings incorrectly which leads to their destruction.  So Scripture is difficult to understand and that is why we need a personal guide just like the Apostle Phillip guided the Ethiopian Eunuch.<br />Finally, if Scripture is all sufficient as Pastor MacArthur argues and it is easy to understand then the contributors to this volume should be in relative agreement on doctrinal issues;  If this is the case, then this will be the greatest proof in favor of their position.  Yet, a close examination and comparison of the different beliefs held by these men proves otherwise.  Now I admit that since all of these men come from a Reformed background they all hold to traditional Reformed Soteriology, including Depravity, Unconditional Election, and Irresistable grace.  Nevertheless, it is also equally true that there are many things that these men disagree on.<br />For instance, Dr. James White, a Reformed Baptist, believes that Baptism should only be administered to an indivdual after they have made a profession of faith, but Dr. Sproul, a Presbyterian, believes that baptism can and should be administered to infants.  Furthermore, Dr. Sproul has even shown signs of espousing a view of baptismal regeneration.  Dr. Sproul endorsed Michael Horton's book, \\"In the Face of God\\", in which Dr. Horton clearly states that he believes baptism is a part of the overall regenerative process of the believer and that it imparts grace to the recipient.  This view is diametrically opposed to the Baptist views of Dr. White and Pastor MacArthur, who is associated with the Baptist demoniation, because they believe that baptism is just an outward expression of an inner renewal that has already occured;  In their theological opinion baptism is merely symbolic.  Looking at the Lord's Supper, both Ferguson and Sproul as Presbyterians believe that there is a spiritual presence in the Eucharist and that the elements are spiritually Jesus' Body and Blood.  On the other hand, White and MacArthur believe that communion is merely a symbolic gesture and that the elements are simply bread and wine.<br />When it comes to theological systems Sproul endorses a system of Covenant Theology and is very anti-dispensational, while MacArthur believes in a unique version of dispensational theology.  In addition, MacArthur has taught the strange idea that it was not Jesus' blood that saves us, but his death on the cross.  Yet again, this is something that the other contributors of this book would disagree with and would argue is not biblically correct.  There are also many other differences between these men regarding ecclesiology, eschatology, and other issues but to point every one out would take way too long and would simply be redundant.<br />They argue that scripture is perspicuous and easy to understand, yet they disagree on a whole host of issues.  On every one of these issues only one party can be right, and even more disturbing is the idea that maybe none of them are right.  If every one of these men are wrong on the issue of the Lord's Supper and their interpretation of John 6, then they are in big trouble because Jesus says, \\"Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.\\"  If they are all wrong, and the Catholics/Orthodox are correct, then they are in for a rude awakening.  The point is, they argue for a position that is not validated by their own personal beliefs.  They all interpret scripture and they interpret it differently and that means that many, and maybe all of them, are arguing for erroneous positions.re also many other differences between these men regarding ecclesiology, eschatology, and other issues but to point every one out would take way too long and would simply be redundant.<br />They argue that scripture is perspicuous and easy to understand, yet they disagree on a whole host of issues.  On every one of these issues only one party can be right, and even more disturbing is the idea that maybe none of them are right.  If every one of these men are wrong on the issue of the Lord's Supper and their interpretation of John 6, then they are in big trouble because Jesus says, \\"Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.\\"  If they are all wrong, and the Catholics/Orthodox are correct, then they are in for a rude awakening.  The point is, they argue for a position that is not validated by their own personal beliefs.  They all interpret scripture and they interpret it differently and that means that many, and maybe all of them, are arguing for erroneous positions.	2003-07-21
US	36881957	R1B44SC8WN1FAY	0671531417	348191036	The Monkey Business: A Scientist Looks at Creation	Books	3	1	2	N	N	What a way to state your point!	It seems like everytime I pick up a book by an evolutionist attempting to discredit creation science, the evolutionary proponent almost inevitably results to name-calling and ad hominem attacks to make a point.  This book is no different.<br />Mr. Eldredge attacks creationists and creation science calling them names like puny, while attempting to bolster the case for his view in the process.  If he would have interacted more with actual factual evidence and quoted from creationist literature, then shown where the evolutionist's disagree, he would have been more successful in making a stronger case for his views.  This book lacked clear, concise and convincing argumentation, and relied more an mud-slinging and name calling to win the day.  I believe this shows that evolutionary advocates are using every possible tactic to prevent creation science from being taught.  They are afraid to admit the possibility that another view will compete with theirs and that people may be swayed by such an argument.  Heck, Mr. Eldredge states in the beginning of his book that creationists usually win creation/evolution debates against evolutionary supporters.  Yet, he can't make it sound as if the creation camp's argument is more factually correct and more sound, so he says that most victories are the result of theatrics and crowd-pleasing and also because evolutionary supporters are misinformed and do not understand the material as well as they should.<br />Yet, I do have to give Mr. Eldredge credit where credit is due.  I do understand the arguments he is trying to make against teaching creation science in the science classrooms.  Creation science isn't really science at all because you can't test any of the theories to see if they are correct and you can't measure them against any observable evidence.  Creationists just have to say that God did it this way, outside of the set laws of nature, and that's the way it is.  This is definitely not science and should not be taught to kids as science.  Furthermore, as Mr. Eldredge argues our entire society is predicated on the findings and benefits that moderns science provides.  He uses the examples of engineering plants and labratory science as two examples.  These programs are a direct result of modern science and are related to the science of biological evolution.<br />Nevertheless, I think the situation in America has done a complete 180.  In the early 20th century most of the American establishment was against the prospect of teaching evolution in the classroom.  The 1925 Scopes Trial was the most public and virulent manifestation of such a situation.  Yet, now the tables appear to have been turned.  Instead of the having Biblical creationists bitterly oppose the views of evolutionists, you have evolutionists bitterly opposing and fighting against the views of creationists.  I believe this shows how hyppocritical both sides have been and still can be today.  The evolutionary camp has illustrated that it is no better or no more altruistic than the staunch creationists of the early 20th century.  They will will fight, claw, scratch and complain that they should be the only model taught in the school system.  Although I agree with the evolutionists that the model of creation science being espoused by men like Duane Gish is not really science and a result of fundamentalist Christian thinking, I do not believe this should eliminate creation thinking from being removed from the classroom.  It is possible to present the idea that the Universe developed either by 1.)Random Chance or 2.)Intelligent Design simultaneously in the same classroom.  Furthermore, it is possible to argue for intelligent design without getting overtly religious or faith specific;  Just arguing against one system because it is diametrically opposed to your own will not cut it;  Even worse, is engaging in this kind of activity and not providing any solid argumentation of defense of your view.  The Bible does not have to be interpreted ultra-literally as most creation scientist do today.  There are other Christian scientist's at work today who believe in the scientific data supporting the earth's age, they accept the fossil evidence as accurate.  They do all of these while simultaneously holding the Geneis model as accurate.  Just because some creation scientists hold views that are incompatible with this evidence, does not mean that the rest of the establishment should be punished or kept from the classroom.ted ultra-literally as most creation scientist do today.  There are other Christian scientist's at work today who believe in the scientific data supporting the earth's age, they accept the fossil evidence as accurate.  They do all of these while simultaneously holding the Geneis model as accurate.  Just because some creation scientists hold views that are incompatible with this evidence, does not mean that the rest of the establishment should be punished or kept from the classroom.	2003-05-12
US	36881957	R16CAJ10OTJP92	0830813608	892715773	An Easy-to-Understand Guide for Defeating Darwinism by Opening Minds	Books	3	32	53	N	N	Could have been better!	I read this book over four years ago and after recently reading a few more books on the Creation/Evolution issue, I dusted off my copy of Johnson's book and reexamined it.  After going through the book a second time I was a unimpressed and didn't have the same respect for the book that I did after reading it the first time.  Nevertheless, the book does bring up some very valid points and ones that evolutionary scientists need to answer.<br />For instance, Johnson shows how evolutionary supporters rely on deceptive evidence as an explanation for their views.  When asked to prove that life evolves and produces diversity evolutionists point to the variety within the species' Canis Domesticus and Felix Domesticus, or the common dog and house cat.  These proofs are inadequate because the variety of cats and dogs that exist today are only proof of variation and differentiation within a species, not of macro-evolution from one species to another.  It is a scientific fact that a German Shepherd and a Teacup poodle are both members of the same species and are not different species.  Second, and even more damning is that scientists appeal to this as proof of evolution when in fact it completely obliterates their view.  The cats and dogs we have today are a product of intelligent design and selective breeding processes.  Just visit any breeder and you will see that even today some breeders are breeding select dogs to produce a new type of breed.  This screams intelligent design and completely underscores the evolutionist's argument.  All of the dogs and cast we have today are a product of human intervention and planning not random forces at work to produce a fitter and better species.<br />Second, and most importantly, evolutionary principles defy the laws of thermodynamics;  This is probably the most common argument used by creationists to discredit the evolutionary position, and with good reason.  The second law of thermodynamics states that a system left to itself will continually move towards a state of greater entropy.  In other words, if left to itself a system will become more random and more chaotic.  This can be countered if an outside force is introduced into the system to organize it and restore order.  This can be done very easily by adding energy to a system.  This is how evolutionists will try and squirm their way out of this objection by stating that adding enery to a system will produce order out of chaos.  In fact, Tim Berra attempt to do such a thing in his book, &quot;Evolution and the myth of creationism : a basic guide to the facts in the evolution debate.&quot;  Berra uses the example of receiving an unassembled bike in the mail,, he argues that left to itself the arrangement will become more chaotic and unorganized, but this can be altered by adding energy to the system.  The energy you add is work from your muscles and tendons striving to assemble the bike, and thus adding energy to the system.  Yet, this analagy is completely inadequate and destroys his whole argument.  This process is one of logical and cognitive intelligent design.  A human being, an intelligent being, decides to put the bike together and uses his cognitive functions to guide his effort to assemble the bycicle.  This is intelligent design at it's finest and it utterly destroys the idea that an unassembled bycicle could be assembled by random chance.  If a bike couldn't be put together without energy and design what are we to suppose to believe about human beings?<br />These are just a few of the arguments brought up in Johnson's book and are relevant questions to the debate.  Just because science puts together a theory and supports it with some evidence, it does not make that theory immune to skepticism and questioning.  If naturalistic evolution is true then the evidence will support it and it will prevail, but if it is not then another theory will replace it.  The work of a man like Phillip Johnson is vital to the continuing advance of science.  Although he may not be the most knowledgeable and scientifically savy person out there, he is only working to either strengthen the idea of naturalistic evolution or contribute to it's demise.  Evolutionary proponents hate books like these because they question their findings.  Science is not God and it cannot provide the complete truth, it can only give us tenable and workable definitions for the events and phenomena we see around us.  Scientific definitions must constantly be restated, reshaped, and altered to meet new demands and evidence;  Thus, the work of a man like Phillip Johnson is providing a benefit to the scientific community by pointing out the weak areas in their theories and this will in turn force the evolutionists to strengthen their assertions where weaknesses are inherent.<br />I have witnessed some intense and vehement responses against this book from naturalistic evolutionists who disagree with Johnson's work.  They are entitled to their opinion, but their reaction is no better than the reactions of the Christian community of the early 20th century.  The individuals who opposed Darwinian ideas being taught in the classroom.  Now, the situation has been reversed in this society and the ones who originally preached a message of letting all sides express their views and let reason have the final say, these same people are now attempting to silence the indivduals questioning their ideas.  People questioning evolutionary principles and pushing for an idea of Divine intelligent design should have their place to speak their views, and the evolutionists who originally complained about exclusivity and discrimination should stop being hypocrites and return to the principles and values believed by their predecessors.e.  Although he may not be the most knowledgeable and scientifically savy person out there, he is only working to either strengthen the idea of naturalistic evolution or contribute to it's demise.  Evolutionary proponents hate books like these because they question their findings.  Science is not God and it cannot provide the complete truth, it can only give us tenable and workable definitions for the events and phenomena we see around us.  Scientific definitions must constantly be restated, reshaped, and altered to meet new demands and evidence;  Thus, the work of a man like Phillip Johnson is providing a benefit to the scientific community by pointing out the weak areas in their theories and this will in turn force the evolutionists to strengthen their assertions where weaknesses are inherent.<br />I have witnessed some intense and vehement responses against this book from naturalistic evolutionists who disagree with Johnson's work.  They are entitled to their opinion, but their reaction is no better than the reactions of the Christian community of the early 20th century.  The individuals who opposed Darwinian ideas being taught in the classroom.  Now, the situation has been reversed in this society and the ones who originally preached a message of letting all sides express their views and let reason have the final say, these same people are now attempting to silence the indivduals questioning their ideas.  People questioning evolutionary principles and pushing for an idea of Divine intelligent design should have their place to speak their views, and the evolutionists who originally complained about exclusivity and discrimination should stop being hypocrites and return to the principles and values believed by their predecessors.	2003-05-12
US	36881957	RFDI37B0J5VNA	0300076614	607009861	Mary Through the Centuries: Her Place in the History of Culture	Books	5	70	71	N	N	A short history of Mariology	Jaroslav Pelikan is one of the foremost scholars and authors who has written on the topics of early church history, development of tradition, and the history of Jesus.  This book is actually a companion to his other book, &quot;Jesus Through the Centuries&quot;, and attempts to understand why Mary has played such a prominent role in church theology, devotion, and tradition.<br />This question becomes even more perplexing when one realizes that Mary's role in the gospels is very limited, and she is only mentioned once by name outside of the gospels.  Yet, this did not prove a hindrance to the early church fathers who went about scouring the pages of the Old Testament to find references to the mother of our Lord.  The one technique that proved most useful to the fathers was reading the Old Testament allegorically instead of literally.  By employing this method the fathers were able to find typologial similarities between Eve and Mary.  Therefore, by the end of the 2nd century Irenaeus was able to develop the comparison between Eve and Mary, so that just as the apostle Paul saw Christ as a second Adam, Irenaeus viewed Mary as a second Eve.  Pelikan argues that since Paul began the process of applying such an allegory from the Old Testament to Jesus that it was not a stretch for the fathers to make the connection between Mary and Eve.<br />The next step in the developing Mariological process was the application of the title, Theotokos, or the Mother of God.  The need for such a title stemmed from the many Christological heresies that were appearing during this time.  By calling Mary Theotokos the fathers were able to guarantee that Jesus' humanity was safeguarded, and also that his divinity was upheld.  Nevertheless, Mary's new title as Theotokos only strengthened the growing devotion toward her.  Pelikan shows that Athanasius, the great orthodox theologian, makes reference to a Marian celebration in his writings.  In addition, in his writings against the Arians Athanasius argues against the position that Jesus was God's most perfect and best creation, but instead reserves that honor for Mary.<br />When Pelikan arrives at the period of medeval history, he shows how Marian devotion blossomed into a full blown phenomena.  During this time Mary was showered with such titles as Mediatrix, Queen of Heaven, Mother of the faithful and many other such titles.  In Bernard of Clairvaux, Mary had a great advocate who spoke very highly of the Mother of God.  Yet when it came to one of the most pivotal doctrines of Catholic theology, that of the immaculate conception, Bernard and Aquinas denied that the doctrine was a reality.  They believed that such a doctrine made Mary immune from needing a savior and made her wonderful qualities seem less special.  It wasn't until Duns Scotus argued that the immaculate conception saved Mary more perfectly by preventing her fall rather than rescuing her from a fall, that the doctrine became common in the West.<br />Finally, Pelikan dives into the period of the Reformation and illustrates that although the Reformers eschewed much of Marian doctrine that developed in the middle ages, they did not in fact abandon everything.  The Reformers maintained that Mary was indeed the Theotokos, defended her perpetual virginity, and some even held to her immaculate status.  What the Reformers disagreed with were the practices of praying to Mary and the saints, and the view of Mary as a Mediatrix.  The Reformers believed that the role of Mediator belonged to Jesus alone, and that all prayer addressed to Mary and the Saints was superfluous and useless.<br />In the last chapters of the book Pelikan examines the Marian dogmas that have been promulgated by the Catholic Church: the immaculate conception and the Assumption.  Pelikan traces the developments of these doctrines all the way from the fathers of the early church to the present day theologians and church officials who have expressed these views.  Lastly, Pelikan shows how the person of Mary is an important person to all Christians and that she is an example of faith that everyone should strive to emulate.s how the person of Mary is an important person to all Christians and that she is an example of faith that everyone should strive to emulate.	2003-05-09
US	36881957	R2EZ5R88AW435V	1576832309	614227873	The Genesis Question: Scientific Advances and the Accuracy of Genesis	Books	5	37	46	N	N	An excellent examination of the Genesis account.	I read this book after I read a book written against Creation Science by a staunch evolutionist.  What I imagined I would find in this book was a defense of creation science by a Christian scientist arguing for a young earth, and against evolution.  What I ended up discovering was shocking because this book was definitely not what I expected.<br />Dr. Ross does a wonderful job of illustrating that the Biblical account of creation does indeed support and not contradict the latest scientific findings.  Ross believes that the Universe is in fact billions of years old and that the earth is 4.5 billion years old.  Dr. Ross agrees with the scientific establishment on the age of the earth, and because of this Creation Scientist will hate this book.<br />Furthermore, Dr. Ross progresses verse by verse through the Genesis creation account and shows how each verse actually agrees with the scientific model.  To get around the literal 6 problem, Ross argues that day in this instance is referring to an unknown and quite long period of time.  Dr. Ross shows that the Hebrew word Yom, can have several meanings since the language is limited by a small vocabulary, and Yom is used to express a literal 24 hour day as well as a long period of time.<br />I can't even begin to explain the scientific explanations laid down in this book, but Dr. Ross' arguments are convincing.  He does point to the latest findings and argues from within an observable and experimental framework.  He accepts all of the fossil evidence gathered by scientists, but does not believe in the evolutionary model.  Instead, Dr. Ross understands God's creative work as a gradual process of making the earth inhabitable for humans.  Instead of doing this miraculously and instantly, God did this over a long period of time, thus allowing time for all of the animals that are now extinct to have lived out their earthly existence.<br />Finally, Dr. Ross does an excellent job of dispelling the traditional myths surrounding the Genesis account of creation.  He sees the first few chapters of the Bible as the greatest stumbling block to individual conversion because many erroneously believe that the Bible contradicts science.  For instance, Dr. Ross shows that Genesis 1 and 2 are not describing two creation narratives, but that Genesis 1 is a general creation account while Genesis 2 is focused on humanity and mankind's central role in God's plan.<br />I could highlight many of the other arguments employed by Dr. Ross, but that would be unneccessary.  Just read the book and keep and open mind in the process.  Anyone who approaches this book with an open mind will see that the Bible does not contradict and stand opposed to science, but actually supports science.Genesis account of creation.  He sees the first few chapters of the Bible as the greatest stumbling block to individual conversion because many erroneously believe that the Bible contradicts science.  For instance, Dr. Ross shows that Genesis 1 and 2 are not describing two creation narratives, but that Genesis 1 is a general creation account while Genesis 2 is focused on humanity and mankind's central role in God's plan.<br />I could highlight many of the other arguments employed by Dr. Ross, but that would be unneccessary.  Just read the book and keep and open mind in the process.  Anyone who approaches this book with an open mind will see that the Bible does not contradict and stand opposed to science, but actually supports science.	2003-05-09
US	36881957	R19PLCXIU7KM8F	0931888662	931880919	Grace, Predestination, and the Salvific Will of God: New Answers to Old Questions	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Ok, but still has some major weaknesses	I read this book after I finished Father Garrigou-Lagrange's timeless work on the issue of predestination.  It just so happened that Father Most was a student of Father Garrigou-Lagrange and could not fully accept the Thomistic system of predestination that he espoused.  Therefore, Father Most set about to understand the issue of predestination and grace and this book is the product of his study.<br />Coming from a Reformed Protestant background I was inclined to give this book a lower rating, but I was impressed with Fr. Most's reasoning and argumentation.  As far as books on grace and predestination are concerned, Most's book is one of the more coherent and well argued literary works available.  Therefore, I believe the book itself has some merit, but it still did not convince me that the Reformed interpretation is incorrect or invalid and I will explain why.<br />First, I will tackle just a few of the weaknesses I saw in this book.  Most begins the work by delving right into the issue of grace, predestination and the salvific will of God.  Although this is the major element and focus of this work, I still believe that a cursory examination of other relevant issues such as man's spiritual depravity would have been helpful.  Since Most is attempting to argue against a Thomistic/Calvinist system, he needed to show that man is not spiritually dead in sin and that he still retains the capacity to respond to God.  This book just assumes that man still possesses some semblance of free-will because Most argues that it is within our power to resist grace or to omit resistance.<br />Next, his attempt to deal with Romans 9 was very unsatisfactory.  Most simply says that these verses deal with the external economy of temporal placement and vocation, and not with the internal economy of salvation.  Yet, if you look at the beginning of Romans 9 Paul is dealing squarely with the issue of the eternal salvation of the Israelites.  When he picks up with the theme of Jacob and Esau, Pharoah, and God's initiative to bestow mercy on whomever He wishes in verses 6-19, the Apostle gives us no indicator that he has shifted focus from his original train of thought.  Furthermore, even if Paul were discussing the external economy in those verses, he is doing it to prove a point about the internal economy which is the primary focus of this passage.  Paul uses the example of choosing Jacob over Esau, as a comparsion for God choosing some for salvation while overlooking the rest.<br />Although Most attempts to deal with some problem passages, he completely passes over John 6.  His silence on this passage speaks volumes, because it is basically conceeding that these verses cannot be reconciled with his soteriological system.  In John 6 Jesus shows that the church is given to Him before they actually come, and that everyone who comes is raised on the last day.  This is much different than Fr. Most's notion of being able to impede and resist God's grace.  According to John 6, all who are given by the Father and drawn, inevitably come to the Son and the Son will raise them all up unto eternal life.<br />That being said, I think Fr. Most's work also had several strong points.  Father Most's solution to the problem of maintaining the absolute gratuity of predestination while affirming man's ability to distinguish himself is interesting and unique.  Placing predestination after lack of resistance but before works still maintains it's gratuity, albeit it is a little dark, and allows for God to keep His sovereignty.  Also, I believe that Most definitely showed that this was the opinion of not only Aquinas, but also a majority of the chruch fathers.<br />Fr. Most's explanation of how lack of resistance is not a work was very interesting, but I still thought it could have been explained better.  I could see what he wanted to say, but I thought the distinction was still a little gray.  If one chooses to resist, then doesn't one also choose not to resist?  Althoughhe says that when under the influence of grace one can just let it operate unhindered, this explanation left me wanting a clearer explanation.  His explanation made it sound like an individual would receive and be transformed by grace without even realizing it.<br />Finally, I really enjoyed his treatment of the distinction between the divine intellect and the divine will.  You can't emphasize one of these divine attributes at the expense of the other like most theological systems do.  I understood how both are equally attributes of God's character and need to be held in balance and each given their proper respect.  Also, his treatment of God having recourse to eternity to know future events was enlightening.<br />Overall, this book provides a solid defense of a more free-will based soteriological system;  Sadly, this is something that is sadly lacking in much of the literature that is produced by free-will theologians.  Although I believe that the book had it's deficencies, it also had it's strong points as well.  Ultimately, the book did not convince me of the error of Calvinist theology, but I do believe that it educated me and helped me to better understand the intricacies of such a system.he says that when under the influence of grace one can just let it operate unhindered, this explanation left me wanting a clearer explanation.  His explanation made it sound like an individual would receive and be transformed by grace without even realizing it.<br />Finally, I really enjoyed his treatment of the distinction between the divine intellect and the divine will.  You can't emphasize one of these divine attributes at the expense of the other like most theological systems do.  I understood how both are equally attributes of God's character and need to be held in balance and each given their proper respect.  Also, his treatment of God having recourse to eternity to know future events was enlightening.<br />Overall, this book provides a solid defense of a more free-will based soteriological system;  Sadly, this is something that is sadly lacking in much of the literature that is produced by free-will theologians.  Although I believe that the book had it's deficencies, it also had it's strong points as well.  Ultimately, the book did not convince me of the error of Calvinist theology, but I do believe that it educated me and helped me to better understand the intricacies of such a system.	2003-04-18
US	36881957	R36TMOCUHO624	0140146563	270035970	The Orthodox Church: New Edition	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A great introduction to the Orthodox Church	In most Christian circles, the Orthodox Church is known as the forgotten church because many Christians do not even know of it's existence.  Coming from an evangelical background I was in the same situation, until I attended college and was able to learn about this mysterious Church.  Because of this sparked interest, I decided to pick up Bishop Ware's book and read it to discover more about the history and beliefs of the Orthodox Church.<br />Basically, this book is a beginner's guide to the Orthodox Church.  Ware begins by discussing the history and and events surrounding this 2,000 year old Christian institution.  I believe that Ware's appraisal and handling of history was fair and accurate.  When it came to discussing the various schisms that erupted between East and West he was, I believe, very fair and accurate.  When discussing the root and causes of the permanent schism of 1054, he did not try to blame the Pope as some do, but instead showed that it was a tragic misunderstanding and lack of thorough communication that led to these events.<br />In the second part of the book, Ware discussed Orthodox theology and beliefs.  Everything from the nature of the Trinity, the Saints and Mary, the Sacraments, the Word of God, and spiritual life are examined.  I liked how he handled the whole filioque controversy because it really shows that the Orthodox Church believes that dual procession is not the correct view.  I never really understood on what basis they formulated their objections until I read this book.  Also, Ware's discussion of sin and the fall was intriguing because I never knew the East avoided the Augustinian/Pelagian controversy.<br />Finally, in the last part Ware attempts to show how the Orthodox Church views the other church bodies around her.  Without a doubt, the church the Orthodox share the closest heritage with is the Catholic Church.  Ware states that the East is willing to grant the Pope the position of primacy and honor that he deserves, but they are not willing to sacrifice the integrity of the other great Patriarchal sees at the expense of Roman jurisdictional claims.  Also, Ware shows that the Orthodox Church has much in common with Anglicans, Lutherans, and other Protestant groups.  Although there are many barriers which separate them, there is also hope for healing and reunification.<br />All in all, an excellent introduction to the Orthodox Church.  The only downside is that this book leaves you desiring more, but I guess that's why Bishop Ware has written other books which examine Orthodoxy on a deeper level.hey are not willing to sacrifice the integrity of the other great Patriarchal sees at the expense of Roman jurisdictional claims.  Also, Ware shows that the Orthodox Church has much in common with Anglicans, Lutherans, and other Protestant groups.  Although there are many barriers which separate them, there is also hope for healing and reunification.<br />All in all, an excellent introduction to the Orthodox Church.  The only downside is that this book leaves you desiring more, but I guess that's why Bishop Ware has written other books which examine Orthodoxy on a deeper level.	2003-04-18
US	36881957	RBXXBY1KGJUPJ	0310234395	506236318	Four Views on Eternal Security	Books	5	91	103	N	N	One of the best books on the issue of Eternal Security	The four views books compile arguments from different authors representing different theological viewpoints on a selected topic.  From the title of the book anyone can probably guess that this particular book deals with the controversial and heavily debated issue of Eternal Security.<br />The first author, Michael Horton, represents the traditional Calvinist view;  In other words he defends the traditional five points of TULIP associated with Calvinistic theology.  The TULIP acronym stands for Total Depravity, Unconditional Election, Limted Atonement, Irresistable grace, and Perseverance of the Saints.  For the purposes of this book, Horton attempts to concentrate on the last point, but his arguments often require digressions and tangents that deal with the other four points.  I believe that Horton's arguments are strong, but there are several areas where his defense is lacking.  First, Horton strongly advocates a system of covental theology, and then uses this system to explain problem passages such Hebrews 6: 4-6.  Although his system has it's merits, it also has it's weaknesses.  Arguing that the members of the church being discussed in Hebrews were only sacramental participants can be a hard sell since he is arguing from such a defined sacramental system that exists today, and then superimposing that system on the earliest church.  Second, Horton doesn't do enough to support the doctrine of the Perseverance of the Saints.  He needed to illustrate that a believer's security does not rest on one instance of faith, but on a lifetime of continually growing in knowledge and coming to Christ.  Overall, Horton's section was strong, but could have been better.<br />Second, Norman Geisler presents his system of Moderate Calvinism, or as some people have dubbed it, his Calminian theology.  Geisler's arguments are very weak and his proofing is strained and repetitive.  Geisler resorts to rapid fire proof-texting and attempts to deal with every verse that strengthens his position, and then discredit every verse that harms his position.  The lack of any serious exegesis or sound Biblical reasoning make Geisler's arguments less valid.  Furthermore, Geisler begins his section by claiming that he is a bonified 4-point Calvinist, saying he only eschews limited atonement.  The problem with Geisler's claim is that he redefines all of the old terms from the TULIP acronym to meet his standards.  Instead of having depravity be internally corruptive, it is only externally corruptive.  Geisler doesn't even clarify what he means by this change and doesn't use scripture to bolster his claim.  Salvation is still Unconditional from the standpoint of the giver, but conditional from the standpoint of the receiver because the receiver has to accept the offer of salvation.  These alterations to traditional terminology in Reformed theology are unwarranted and practically untenable since Geisler doesn't support his claims.  Finally, Geisler believes that the believer can rest assured that once he is saved, he will always be saved.  Geisler argues that it takes only one instance of belief to receive eternal life, and once you receive the gift of eternal life it is yours forever.  This argument has serious flaws though;  Geisler completely ignores scriptures that speak of salvation in both present and future tenses, while also ignoring the fact that our salvation is predicated on our continually coming to Christ.  A perfect example of this is found in John 3:16.  In the original Greek the verb believe is rendered as a present participle which is best translated as believing;  Therefore, it isn't whoever believed in the past that has eternal life, but those BELIEVING that have eternal life.  More could be said on this issue, but needless to say Geisler's section was throughly uncovincing.<br />Third, Stephen Ashby delievers his defense of Reformed Arminianism.  Ashby begins by differentiating his school of thought with that of the Weslyan tradition, which isthe tradition followed by most Arminians today.  Ashby is a follower of the teachings of Jacob Arminius and his body of followers known as the Remonstrants.  Ashby also begins by discussing what tenets are shared by both Reformed Arminians and Reformed Calvinists.  Both strongly believe in the doctrine of Total Depravity and that man cannot do anything to merit salvation or the grace of God.  The difference arises in their beliefs on the grace of God.  Whereas Calvinists believe that God's grace is irresistable and is only offered to the elect, Reformed Arminians believe that God's grace is prevenient and offered to every man and woman.  Ashby uses scripture passages such as John 1:14 and 12:32 to support his assertion.  Furthermore, Asbhy argues that election is not based on any intra-Trinitarian decree, but on the foreknowledge of God.  God knows who in advance will respond to His gospel and then elects them based on that foreknowledge.  Finally, Ashby strongly advocates the position that it is possible to apostatize from the faith and that once that decision has been reached it is irreversible.  This is what distinguishes Reformed Arminians from Weslyan Arminians, who believe that a person can apostasize and return to the faith repeatedly.  Ashby argues from the oft-quoted passage in Hebrews 6 and strongly supports the view that the individuals who have turned their backs on the faith have sealed their doom once and for all.  Thus, Ashby's system does allow for some semblance of security because the believer will know he or she is saved as long as they haven't conciously and willfully renounced the faith.  Ashby's position was strong and tenable, but still plagued by a few inconsistencies.<br />Finally, J. Stephen Harper argues for the traditional Wesleyan Arminian position.  I believe that Harper's section was the second weakest section behind Geisler's disastrous section on Moderate Calvinism.  Harper constantly resorts to the writings of John Wesley and not so much to scripture to support his views.  Using Wesley to support your claims isn't a bad idea, but I think the combination of Wesley plus Scripture would have been more effective.  Anyways, Harper argues that Wesley's movement sprung from the need for Reform in the Reformed churches of his day.  Wesley saw the corruption and lack of practical rightouesness in so many men of God that he felt reform was necessary.  Harper uses many sermons delievered by Wesley to support his ideas, and ties those in with reflections from John Wesley himself.  He argues that Wesley strongly believed that a person can sin seriously or on several occasions and in doing so separate himself from the grace of God.  Harper uses Wesley's sermon, A Call to Backsliders, to bolster this claim.  In this sermon, Wesley used the biblical example of David to argue that salvation could be lost.  Wesley argued that David committed adultery and murder, thus sinning so seriously that he cut himself off from the grace of God and lost his salvation.  Nevertheless, David could still renew his relationship with God through contrite repentance and  reestablishing a right heart before God.  Although Harper argues passionately for the possibility of losing salvation, he doesn't do nearly enough to deal with the passages of scripture that do serious damage to his theological beliefs.  Although interesting and informational, Harper's section doesn't do nearly enough to satisfy the reader that his position is both scripturally plausible and correct.the tradition followed by most Arminians today.  Ashby is a follower of the teachings of Jacob Arminius and his body of followers known as the Remonstrants.  Ashby also begins by discussing what tenets are shared by both Reformed Arminians and Reformed Calvinists.  Both strongly believe in the doctrine of Total Depravity and that man cannot do anything to merit salvation or the grace of God.  The difference arises in their beliefs on the grace of God.  Whereas Calvinists believe that God's grace is irresistable and is only offered to the elect, Reformed Arminians believe that God's grace is prevenient and offered to every man and woman.  Ashby uses scripture passages such as John 1:14 and 12:32 to support his assertion.  Furthermore, Asbhy argues that election is not based on any intra-Trinitarian decree, but on the foreknowledge of God.  God knows who in advance will respond to His gospel and then elects them based on that foreknowledge.  Finally, Ashby strongly advocates the position that it is possible to apostatize from the faith and that once that decision has been reached it is irreversible.  This is what distinguishes Reformed Arminians from Weslyan Arminians, who believe that a person can apostasize and return to the faith repeatedly.  Ashby argues from the oft-quoted passage in Hebrews 6 and strongly supports the view that the individuals who have turned their backs on the faith have sealed their doom once and for all.  Thus, Ashby's system does allow for some semblance of security because the believer will know he or she is saved as long as they haven't conciously and willfully renounced the faith.  Ashby's position was strong and tenable, but still plagued by a few inconsistencies.<br />Finally, J. Stephen Harper argues for the traditional Wesleyan Arminian position.  I believe that Harper's section was the second weakest section behind Geisler's disastrous section on Moderate Calvinism.  Harper constantly resorts to the writings of John Wesley and not somuch to scripture to support his views.  Using Wesley to support your claims isn't a bad idea, but I think the combination of Wesley plus Scripture would have been more effective.  Anyways, Harper argues that Wesley's movement sprung from the need for Reform in the Reformed churches of his day.  Wesley saw the corruption and lack of practical rightouesness in so many men of God that he felt reform was necessary.  Harper uses many sermons delievered by Wesley to support his ideas, and ties those in with reflections from John Wesley himself.  He argues that Wesley strongly believed that a person can sin seriously or on several occasions and in doing so separate himself from the grace of God.  Harper uses Wesley's sermon, A Call to Backsliders, to bolster this claim.  In this sermon, Wesley used the biblical example of David to argue that salvation could be lost.  Wesley argued that David committed adultery and murder, thus sinning so seriously that he cut himself off from the grace of God and lost his salvation.  Nevertheless, David could still renew his relationship with God through contrite repentance and  reestablishing a right heart before God.  Although Harper argues passionately for the possibility of losing salvation, he doesn't do nearly enough to deal with the passages of scripture that do serious damage to his theological beliefs.  Although interesting and informational, Harper's section doesn't do nearly enough to satisfy the reader that his position is both scripturally plausible and correct.	2003-03-28
US	36881957	R2GWKVLHP5XSO3	0385132204	120412122	Life of Christ	Books	5	179	183	N	N	One of the best books on the Life of our Lord	Fulton Sheen's book Life of Christ is a literary masterpiece.  Sheen brilliantly navigates through the life of our Lord and highlights some of the more touching moments, while really bringing to life the moments that often get overlooked.  Most importantly, this book will help you to nurture and inculcate a deeper and more profound love for Jesus Christ.<br />Sheen's treatment of Jesus' childhood is masterful.  His narrations of Jesus' presentation in the Temple is so moving and spectacular that it will almost bring tears to your eyes.  Sheen highlights that throughout Jesus' young life the cross was always looming over him and accompanying him wherever our Lord went.<br />Most of the book deals with Jesus' public ministry and Sheen does an excellent job of probing the gospel accounts for deeper spiritual insight.  His constant references to the cross are always highlighted by His appeals to His resurrection and glory.  Sheen illustrates how the apostles only wanted a bread king or a political Messiah, but never a suffering Messiah who was a sacrifice for our sins.  It would be impossible for me to highlight all of the wonderful topics Sheen discusses in this book, but his treatment of Jesus' public ministry and his true reason for becoming a man are always highlighted throughout the book.<br />This book is perfect for anyone wishing to understand Jesus on a more intimate level, but it is also perfect of pastors and church leaders who wish to use this material for future lessons and sermons.  I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who wished to know more about Jesus because when it comes to our redemption, Jesus is the only thing that truly matters.	2003-03-24
US	36881957	R13UMA6INZDOEL	0800618998	452806172	Paul and Palestinian Judaism: A Comparison of Patterns of Religion	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Excellent Pauline scholarship	EP Sanders delivers a memorable and convincing book on the subject of traditional Palestinian Judaism and Pauline theology.  The major thrust of this book revolves around the idea that Judaism was not a works-righteousness legalistic religion which many 20th century scholars have attempted to prove;  Instead, Sanders argues that traditional Judaism is a covenant religion where one maintains his status within the elect group through his piety and obedience.<br />To bolster and support his argument Sanders relies on textual support from Rabbinical sources, Qumran literature, and several apocryphal texts.  Sanders argues that Jews believed their obedience did not earn their salvation but maintained their status within the covenant group.  In other words, obedience was the condition and not the cause of salvation.  This covenantal nomism as Sanders dubs it makes for an interesting argument and deconstructs the idea that Judaism is a works-righteousness religion.<br />Although Sanders' treatment of Paul leaves something to be desired, he does devote some serious time to reworking and understanding Paul's beliefs.  Sanders sees many similarities between Paul and traditional Judaism, but also many huge differences that separate the two camps.  According to Sanders, Paul believes that the only righteousness that matters comes from Jesus.  Paul doesn't believe that the law cannot produce righteousness, but that the righteousness it produces isn't adequate.  Paul's soteriology is extremely Christocentric and because of this the law has become irrelavant.<br />Also striking is Sanders' belief that Paul argued for a participatory function in Christ's death and resurrection.  Sanders sees more than just an expiatory or forensic meaning in Paul's theological language.  Unlike traditional Judaism which believed that righteousness was forensic and legal based on the law, Paul sees the Christians role as one of suffering and participating in Christ's life.  The believer is mystically joined with Christ and through this union the believer dies and and will eventually rise with Christ.  As Sanders notes the idea of being a member of corporate Israel and being a member of Christ are two starkly different concepts.<br />Although this books is a bit lengthy and does devote more time and study to Judaism in comparison to Paul, it is still a welcome addition to any library.  This book is valuable simply for it's deep study of the Jewish faith and what the Rabbis and early 1st century Jews really believed.y joined with Christ and through this union the believer dies and and will eventually rise with Christ.  As Sanders notes the idea of being a member of corporate Israel and being a member of Christ are two starkly different concepts.<br />Although this books is a bit lengthy and does devote more time and study to Judaism in comparison to Paul, it is still a welcome addition to any library.  This book is valuable simply for it's deep study of the Jewish faith and what the Rabbis and early 1st century Jews really believed.	2003-03-14
US	36881957	R3VACO1CRZ9QAC	0800753429	942576028	The Bondage of the Will	Books	5	127	141	N	N	Still a Masterpiece	There are few books which written over 400 years ago are still applicable today;  Martin Luther's masterpiece, The Boncage of the Will, is one of those books.  Anyone desiring to know more about the root of dissent between Luther and the Catholic Church must read this book.<br />In his treatise Luther systematically demolishes Erasmus' arguments in favor of free-will.  Luther brilliantly illustrates why the will is in total and complete bondage and enslavement to sin, and why free-will is a completely meaningless term.  Luther argues that the only thing the will is free to do is to sin and rebel against God.<br />Luther shows that salvation is totally dependent on the grace of God and His sovereign Will.  To say that even a small part of the human will can prepare itself to receive God's grace is an utterly ludricous sentiment.  Erasmus believes that a human being by a very small effort can earn God's grace.  Luther totally destroys this view and shows that to espouse such a view makes one worse than the Pelagians, who held that it took numerous great works to earn God's grace.<br />This book is as applicable today as it was when Luther first wrote this book.  When so many Protestant Churches hold to a soteriological view more akin to that of Erasmus, it is absolutely vital that the truth of the Reformation be brought back into the spotlight.  Read this book to gain a greater understanding of the major area of disagreement among the Reformers and the Catholic Church of the time, and also to understand that our salvation is not predicated on any meritorious work that we accomplish, but simply on the grace of God.	2003-02-18
US	36881957	R1H1G0OQ1RBM51	1579105734	59923874	The New Chosen People: A Corporate View of Election	Books	3	36	42	N	N	A decent defense of corporate election.	As a serious Christian, I am strongly convinced that the doctrine of election is a very important and critical biblical concept. Desiring to understand how all the verses used by Calvinist's to support individual election could be interpreted to support a corporate model, I approached Mr. Klein's book with excitement and interest because I am very unfamiliar with the idea of corporate election, and would like to understand it more fully.<br />That being said, I believe that Mr. Klein's book is an adequate defense of corporate election. Klein established his argument in a straighforward manner by beginning in the Old Testament. He argues that corporate terminology and corporate language abound in the Old Testament. Furthermore, Klein advocates the position that Israel believed that they were chosen as a nation, and that an individual received the promises of God by being a member of Jewish the nation. Klein examines many applicable Old Testament passages to prove that corporate solidarity was the common mentality among the Old Covenant Palestinain Jews.<br />Once Klein finishes his examination of the Old Testament he briefly moves into Qumran and Rabbinic sources to show that they also adhered to a corporate mindset. After a brief survey of these sources, Mr. Klein delves into the main sources of his study and investigates the New Testament literature. He breaks up his study into convenient groups and scrutinizes each unit as a whole. His studies of the Synoptic gospels, the Johannine literature, the writings of Paul, and finally the remaining epistles are interesting.<br />The strength of the book resides in it's organization. Klein does an excellent job of organizing his texts into specific groups. Namely, verses that deal with election to a task, election to salvation, appointment of times, and God's call of individuals and nations. This is just a rough representation of how the texts are broken up, but it illustrates how the author went about arranging his texts. Each section provides commentary and exegesis on the relevant verses and there are plenty of verses to comment about. In his New Testamnet survey, Mr. Klein analyzes any verse where any significant elective them is discussed; Definitely a large and challenging job seeing as the New Testament abounds with such verses.<br />Nevertheless, this book does suffer from a few flaws. The fact that Klein opted for a rapid-fire proof texting approach, rather than a smaller and more considerate study, seriously detracts from this book. Instead of providing some detailed and insightful commentary on just a handful of key verses, the author chooses to provide sparse commentary on each applicable verse. This leaves the reader wanting for more exegesis because the corporate election concept isn't defended to the extent that it should be.<br />Likewise, Mr. Klein does not handle the traditional Calvinist proof-texts as well as he should have. His exegesis on Romans 9 is very unconvincing and way too brief. These are some of the most important verses that deal with the idea of election, and Klein just breezes by them without giving a through and solid argument for a corporate mode of election by arguing from the text. Furthermore, Klein's reading of Ephesians 1:3-4 is a very unnatural and awkard interpretation. I just don't see how one can argue for the position that Christ is the chosen one being described in the text. There are many other verses that are not treated fairly and considerately and this really subtracts from the book.<br />After finishing the book, I will admit that I became more familiar with the idea of corporate election, but I am far from convinced of it's validity. Although the book possesses excellent organization and some decent arguments, it fall short where it matters most. Mr. Klein attempts to convince you by throwing numerous examples at you, but when it comes to seriously wrestling with critical texts he falls way short. If this book provided a solid Arminian interpretation for Romans 9, John 6, and Ephesians 1 it would be much more convining. Unfortunately, The New Chosen People fails to do what it's title states; Although Klein argues for the corporate model, he does not thoroughly convince the reader that corporate election is the standard mode of election found within the Bible.nian interpretation for Romans 9, John 6, and Ephesians 1 it would be much more convining. Unfortunately, The New Chosen People fails to do what it's title states; Although Klein argues for the corporate model, he does not thoroughly convince the reader that corporate election is the standard mode of election found within the Bible.	2003-02-14
US	36881957	R3B2HA3B1CRO5C	0898705975	646919406	The World's First Love	Books	2	15	48	N	N	Definitely not one of Sheen's best!	I am a great admirer of Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen and I adore many of the books he has written, but I believe that The World's First Love is not one of his best literary works.<br />This book is filled with such sweeping generalities and general statements that sometimes it is hard to take Sheen seriously.  In fact, this is one of the criticisms levied against Sheen by Thomas Reeves in his book America's Bishop.  Reeves notes that many of Sheen's works include so many broad assertions and generalities that Sheen often had to defend and recast some of the things he wrote.<br />Just a few of the grand assumptions Sheen makes are things such as, since Jesus taught so much to the Apostles in the span of 3 years, just imagine what he taught His mother over the span of 30 years.  How does anyone know what he taught Mary while he lived with her?  Scripture is silent on such issues, but scripture does tell us that Jesus became actively involved in his public ministry after his baptism in the Jordan.  Any imaginative specualtion about Jesus' years with Mary is just that, speculation.<br />Moreover, in the beginning Sheen attributes some verses in the book of Proverbs describing wisdom to Mary.  These are new developments to me!  To assume that Mary was innocently playing during the acts of creation by God is quite a grand leap in logic.  At one point Sheen remarks that this Wisdom being discussed in these verses is Jesus, but in the beginning of his book he says these verses are describing Mary.<br />Also, implicit in Sheen's book is the idea that Mary is the pinnacle of human creation;  The capstone of God's handiwork if you will.  I have no qualms by saying that Mary was one of the holiest, if not the holiest person born of man who ever lived, but I don't place her at the pinnacle of human creation.  Sheen's remarks about Mary being the quintessential woman and what every man desires as the perfect mate, and what every woman aspires to be in earnest are grand assumptions indeed.<br />Nevertheless, I did appreciate a few aspects of this book.  I loved how Sheen illustrated that every Christian who ignores Mary's epithet of mother of God can be classified into four groups all condemned as heretics.  All Christians need to recognize that Mary is in fact the mother of God and needs to be called by that distinguished title;  To not do so is to rob her of the distinction she claimed for herself in the first chapter of Luke when she stated that all generations will call her blessed.  Second, I liked how Sheen debunks the view that Joseph was an old man when he married Mary.  Sheen does an excellent job of showing why such a view is erroneous and implausible.<br />Like I stated at the beginning, I am a great admirer of Sheen and love his literary works, but this book had too many defincencies and does not live up to the quality of some of Sheen's other works.  Read this book to gain a greater appreciation for Mary and to contemplate her role in the New Testament, but do not take everything Sheen writes at face value.indeed.<br />Nevertheless, I did appreciate a few aspects of this book.  I loved how Sheen illustrated that every Christian who ignores Mary's epithet of mother of God can be classified into four groups all condemned as heretics.  All Christians need to recognize that Mary is in fact the mother of God and needs to be called by that distinguished title;  To not do so is to rob her of the distinction she claimed for herself in the first chapter of Luke when she stated that all generations will call her blessed.  Second, I liked how Sheen debunks the view that Joseph was an old man when he married Mary.  Sheen does an excellent job of showing why such a view is erroneous and implausible.<br />Like I stated at the beginning, I am a great admirer of Sheen and love his literary works, but this book had too many defincencies and does not live up to the quality of some of Sheen's other works.  Read this book to gain a greater appreciation for Mary and to contemplate her role in the New Testament, but do not take everything Sheen writes at face value.	2003-02-10
US	36881957	R3P4IDXHOUDWD7	0385501684	699519594	Hail, Holy Queen	Books	2	17	40	N	N	Intriguing, but very unconvincing.	I became familiar with Dr. Hahn after watching his series with Mike Aquilina on EWTN titled Hail, Holy Queen. The series was devoted to discussing Dr. Hahn's book and in the process defending the scriptural basis for Marian doctrines. Needless to say, I do not believe Dr. Hahn does near enough to convince the reader that the Roman Catholic Church's Marian dogmas are plausible, let alone scriptural.<br />First, Hahn's book relies way too heavily on archetypes to defend Marian dogmas. One area of study where one will find archetypal comparison used consistently is in the study of Classics, most notably in understanding and interpreting ancient mythology. Take one class on ancient mythology, and I guarantee you will learn how to successfully identify and apply archetypes to any story you read. Nevertheless, this method of interpretation has one glaring weakness, which is that it allows the reader to apply what he or she feels is applicable and disregard what does not coincide with their model.<br />Dr. Hahn is definitely extremely selective in his presentation of his Marian model. He believes that Mary can be found throughout the pages of the Old Testament by having her fit into three principal archetypes: 1.) the new Eve 2.) the ark of the New Covenant 3.) the Davidic queen mother of Jesus. Bold claims indeed, but ones that break down under serious scrutiny. First, there is a strong correlation between Mary and Eve, but Hahn picks and chooses what he applies to Mary to make her fit his model. Characteristics Hahn ignores include the fact that Mary was born and Eve was created from Adam, Eve descends from Adam, and not vice versa as is the case with Jesus and Mary. I could list several other examples but these suffice to show that Dr. Hahn's use of archetypes does not avoid the serious flaw inherent in their utilization.<br />Second, Mary as the ark of the New Covenant is definitely the strongest argument Hahn has for defending Catholic beliefs. Yet here too, Hahn picks and chooses what he likes and disregards the rest. If Mary is the ark of the New Covenant then why didn't anyone who touched her die immediately? The ark of the Old Covenant did this to Uzzah when he presumptously laid his hand upon the ark when it was about to fall. (2 Samuel 6:6-7) Did Mary ever part the waters of Jordan by standing in their midst? The ark of the Old Covenant did. (Joshua 3:17) Moreover, was access to Mary restricted to only a select few as was the ark of the Old Covenant? While in the holy of holies, only the high priest could enter in before the ark and that was only one day a year. Again, nice arguments by Hahn but his methods break down when one notices that he is very selective about his critical evidence for comparison.<br />Third, Mary as the Davidic queen mother; This is definitely the weakest and most poorly developed argument in the book. Hahn uses the example of Bathsheba coming to Solomon to plead for Adonijah. (1 Kings 2:13-22) Nevertheless, Hahn fails to tell the reader Bathsheba's true motive for coming to the king. Bathsheba's plea was nothing less than a political ploy to have Adonijah murdered thus securing her son's place of power on the throne of Israel. Don't believe me, read the next three verses 1 Kings 2: 23-25 and you will see that this is why Bathsheba made the request she did. Does Hahn honestly want to compare the mother of God with the manipulative and deceitful mother of Solomon? For our sakes, I hope he doesn't!<br />Finally, Hahn attempts to defend his method of reasoning by showing that the Bible is filled with archetypes and many of these pertain to Jesus. This is definitely true, but one is warranted to look for biblical archetypes of Jesus because Jesus testified to this fact. Jesus said that the scriptures were written about him. (John 5:39) The Apostle Paul is the one who developed the comparison between Adam as the first and Jesus as the second Adam. (1 Corinthians 15:45, Romans 5:14) Jesus's disciples recognized that many people were comparing Jesus to prominent figures in Jewish history such as John the Baptist and Elijah. (Matthew 16:14) The author of Hebrews shows that Jesus is a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. (Hebrews 6:20) Finally, it was Moses himself who prophesied that the Messiah would be an individual raised up by God who was like Moses. (Deuteronomy 18:15) So one is warranted to search for archetypes in the scriptures, but when doing so follow our Lord's command and search the scriptures to find Him, and not others.<br />Although I read this book because others suggested it would convince me of the truth of Marian doctrines, after finishing it I was not convinced. However, I will say that the book is enlightening and does make one understand that Catholics do believe their beliefs are rooted in scripture and will make one understand why Catholics believe as they do. Nevertheless, it will take a lot more to convince me of the validity of Catholic beliefs and it will take more than a weak reliance on archetypes to justify the hyper-reverence that many Catholics pay to the mother of God.gnized that many people were comparing Jesus to prominent figures in Jewish history such as John the Baptist and Elijah. (Matthew 16:14) The author of Hebrews shows that Jesus is a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. (Hebrews 6:20) Finally, it was Moses himself who prophesied that the Messiah would be an individual raised up by God who was like Moses. (Deuteronomy 18:15) So one is warranted to search for archetypes in the scriptures, but when doing so follow our Lord's command and search the scriptures to find Him, and not others.<br />Although I read this book because others suggested it would convince me of the truth of Marian doctrines, after finishing it I was not convinced. However, I will say that the book is enlightening and does make one understand that Catholics do believe their beliefs are rooted in scripture and will make one understand why Catholics believe as they do. Nevertheless, it will take a lot more to convince me of the validity of Catholic beliefs and it will take more than a weak reliance on archetypes to justify the hyper-reverence that many Catholics pay to the mother of God.	2003-02-10
US	36881957	R3BJHBT6CV3DR5	0895556340	28995994	Predestination: The Meaning of Predestination in Scripture and the Church	Books	5	46	49	N	N	The one book every Reformed Protestant should read!	I must admit that I approached Father Lagrange's work with skepticism, but after I finished his work on the difficult issue of Predestination I was completely stunned.  Being from the Reformed tradition I strongly believe in the doctrines of election and predestination and affirm that they are biblical tenets of the faith.  Nevertheless, I was compeletely uninformed concerning the two schools of thought on this issue which exist within the Catholic Church.  The first school is the Molinist school which is very similar in many respects to Protestant Arminianism, while the second is the Augustinian/Thomistic school, which is very similar to Protestant Calvinism.  Although I knew that the Church was very Molinist in it's practices, I did not know where these practices originated from.  Furthermore, I was completely unaware that there were many who still believed in traditional Augustinian ideas regarding grace and predestination.<br />Lagrange begins his work by laying out the history of the doctrine of predestination in the Church.  He starts by analyzing scripture then works his way up through history analyzing the writings of many of the Church's greatest theologians who wrote about predestination including, Augustine, Aquinas, Duns Scotus, Bellarmine, Suarez, Molina, and many others.  Lagrange shows that several of the councils convened in the sixth century to deal with the issue of election did in fact support the Augustinian viewpoint.  Father Lagrange uses documented evidence from the Coucil of Orange to show how the Church of the 6th century condemned Pelagianism and Semi-pelagianism and upheld traditional Augustinianism.<br />In the second part of this book Lagrange sets out to uphold and clarify the traditional Thomistic teaching on predestination.  Many of his arguments were fascinating and intriguing.  I love his work on the doctrines of grace and premotion.  Lagrange argues that grace does not destroy free will, but perfects it and that grace is not irresistable but instrinsically efficacious.  Lagrange emphatically affirms the absolute gratuity of predestination and constantly makes reference to the same quote of Augustine which states &quot;No one thing would be better than another, unless it were loved more by God.&quot;  According to Lagrange, the only reason one individual chooses God and another does not is because God has loved the one more than the other.  It is a hard truth indeed, but one that is ratified by scripture.<br />The one negative side to this book is that it does contain a lot of vague and intellectual terminology.  It may be hard for anyone who is not familiar with Augustine and Aquinas to follow Lagrange's reasoning since he continually refers to their writings and their ideas.  Nevertheless, this book is a valuable resource for anyone wishing to understand the other Catholic school of thought on predestination.  Every Reformed Protestant should read this book in order to understand that not all Catholics adhere to the Molinist train of thought;  The Catholic Church has in fact taught predestination throughout it's 2,000 history and this is beautifully illustrated by Father Lagrange.stable but instrinsically efficacious.  Lagrange emphatically affirms the absolute gratuity of predestination and constantly makes reference to the same quote of Augustine which states &quot;No one thing would be better than another, unless it were loved more by God.&quot;  According to Lagrange, the only reason one individual chooses God and another does not is because God has loved the one more than the other.  It is a hard truth indeed, but one that is ratified by scripture.<br />The one negative side to this book is that it does contain a lot of vague and intellectual terminology.  It may be hard for anyone who is not familiar with Augustine and Aquinas to follow Lagrange's reasoning since he continually refers to their writings and their ideas.  Nevertheless, this book is a valuable resource for anyone wishing to understand the other Catholic school of thought on predestination.  Every Reformed Protestant should read this book in order to understand that not all Catholics adhere to the Molinist train of thought;  The Catholic Church has in fact taught predestination throughout it's 2,000 history and this is beautifully illustrated by Father Lagrange.	2003-02-03
US	36881957	R2TYKPVXLGE2MR	1556610920	308824703	Elect in the Son	Books	2	18	42	N	N	Interesting, but not very convincing!	The introduction to Elect in the Son hails this book as a landmark literary work that will redefine the doctrines of grace and election, yet the book fails to do what it promises.  I will give Dr. Shank credit because this book is one of the more coherent Arminian books available, but I do not believe it does enough to disprove the Calvinistic mode of individual election.<br />To Mr. Shank's credit, he does wrestle with many prominent Reformed theologians in his work including John Calvin himself and G.C Berkouwer, who is a contemporary Reformed theologian.  Shank employs numerous quotations from several sources from the following authors and attempts to show the inconsistency of their beliefs.  Furthermore, Shank wrestles with several of the key passages of Reformed theology, namely John 6 and Romans 9-11.<br />Nevertheless, Shank's exegesis and reasoning are weak and he does misrepresent Berkouwer's beliefs at times by only presenting partial quotations.  Furthermore, implicit in Shank's theology is that election is corporate and not individual.  Although this is a nice idea in theory, in practice this idea does not hold up to serious scriptural exegesis.  Shank does not adequately illustrate that Romans 9 is not concerned with the salvation of individual men, and God's right to sovereignly choose them.  Moreover, Shank makes the traditional Arminian appeals to verses such as 1 Timothy 2:4 and 3 Peter 3:9 without even looking at the surrounding verses to establish the context within which they are written.  Instead, he just takes these verses at face value and uses them to interpret problem verses such as those in Romans 9.<br />I will credit Dr. Shank with developing and defending an interesting idea, that being the idea of corporate election.  On the surface it does appear to be a valid substitute to traditional Calvinism, and to avoid the pitfalls Shank sees in Reformed doctrine.  Nevertheless, his ideas do not stand up to sound biblical exegesis and scrutiny and this book does not do enough to convince the reader that Calvinism is incorrect.nd this book does not do enough to convince the reader that Calvinism is incorrect.	2003-02-03
US	36881957	R5YPY1Q8SDO2C	1879737434	350819627	The Potter's Freedom: A Defense of the Reformation and the Rebuttal of Norman Geisler's Chosen But Free	Books	3	43	53	N	N	A sound defense of standard Reformation principles	After re-reading sections of The Potter's Freedom and also reading Geisler's chosen But Free, I have decided to amend my previous review of White's book.  I still believe White's work is a solid work and it has many strengths to it, but I also believe there are many oversights and oversimplifications.<br />Out of both books, I believe that White's work is much better and more persuasive.  White does an excellent job of delving into key texts and in the process he wrestles with them and examines them for what they are worth.  His explanations for Matthew 23:37, I Timothy 2:4 and 2 Peter 3:9, although not the best, are without a doubt good attempts to refute Geisler's point-blank assertions;  Geisler takes these verses at face value, while White looks at the surrounding verses and attempts to clarify what these verses are really stating.  Since CBF (Chosen but Free) relies so heavily on these verses to bolster it's argument, White does some serious damage to Geisler's argument when he deals with these texts.<br />Furthermore, White does an excellent job of providing solid exegesis for some of the standard proof-texts of traditional Reformed theology.  His analysis of John 6 and Romans 9 easily eclipses any simple exegesis provided by Geisler.  His sections on John 6 and Romans 9 are very strong, but there really isn't anything new here that you can't find in other Reformed works.  Every Reformed book that deals with predestination always has a section that delves deep into these chapters of Scripture.<br />Where the book was weak was White's insistence on his version of Total Depravity.  Firstly, White gives absolutely no credible reason why Lazarus' physical condition is comparative to the natural man's spiritual condition.  Using this as an example to prove total deadness and the need for new life is a serious case of eisegesis since nowhere is the idea hinted at in Scripture that Lazarus being raised from the dead is like the believer's being quickened by the Spirit.  Sure White resorts to the standard proof texts of Ephesians 2:1 and Colossians 2:13 to prove his point, but does nekros have to be understood in the way White does?  In John 5:25 Jesus says the dead, same word in Greek, will hear His voice and live.  In Revelation 3:1, Jesus tells the people of the Church in Sardis that they are dead, same word in Greek, and exhorts them to strengthen the things that remain.  Obviously, looking at how the word is used in every context one can easily understand that the word doesn't carry with it the connotation that White would like it to mean because Jesus obviously tells us that the dead can hear Him. Even though this may sound perplexing, Scripture tells us it is true.  I think that dead in sin is much better understood within the context of separation as Isaiah 59 says when it states our sins have separated us from God.  Furthermore, when White deals with John 5, he only touches the verses where Jesus says He gives life to whom He wills.  Yeah, read by itself and in isolation from the other verses this would seem to support to Calvinism.  Yet, two verses later Jesus says who He wills to give life to, the ones who hear Him and believe on His name.  In verse 25, Jesus says the time is now here when the dead will hear Him and live.  The order is the dead hear, believe and live;  Yet, White arguing for regeneration preceding faith would have the order be receive life, hear and believe.  White has turned the text on it's head and made it say something it doesn't even begin to teach.  Moreover, this whole passage deals a crippling blow to White's idea of total depravity since it's the dead who hear and live.  Not the elect, or the regenerate, but the dead.<br />Finally, White does not deal with the doctrine of the Perseverance of the Saints.  Geisler, who calls himself a moderate Calvinist, also believes that a believer cannot lose his salvation, but his beliefs are substantially different from those from the Reformed Camp.  I really wish White would have devoted a chapter comparing Perseverance of the Saints (POTS), the traditional Reformed position, with Once Saved Always Saved (OSAS), which is the position of Geisler and moderate Calvinism.  I believe White could have dealt a serious blow to Geisler's position if he would have differentiated it from the Reformed concept.<br />All in all, White's The Potter's Freedom is a good book.  Whether one wants to learn more about Reformation doctrines, or whether one just wants to strengthen their convictions, this book is an excellent read.  Although I did find a lot more weaknesses in the text my second time through, I would still recommend this book to anyone wanting to know more about the Reformation doctrines of election and grace.lly wish White would have devoted a chapter comparing Perseverance of the Saints (POTS), the traditional Reformed position, with Once Saved Always Saved (OSAS), which is the position of Geisler and moderate Calvinism.  I believe White could have dealt a serious blow to Geisler's position if he would have differentiated it from the Reformed concept.<br />All in all, White's The Potter's Freedom is a good book.  Whether one wants to learn more about Reformation doctrines, or whether one just wants to strengthen their convictions, this book is an excellent read.  Although I did find a lot more weaknesses in the text my second time through, I would still recommend this book to anyone wanting to know more about the Reformation doctrines of election and grace.	2003-01-30
