US	37005087	R2CA7XF7M650RM	0345426258	763358805	Hart's War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good twist on a murder mystery	One would have to ask oneself upon reading this if it is primarily a POW story which features a murder, or a murder mystery that happens to take place in a POW camp.  In this case, I'll take it as primarily a POW story with a twist, and it is that twist that makes it good reading.  <br />First of all, any POW story set in World War II would have to have something different to it.  This type of story was done as completely as it possibly could have been with \\"The Great Escape\\" many years ago.  We know that in a WWII camp there are going to be escape committees, tunnels, and various people providing various roles to complete the project.  We also know that while it is the Germans' job to prevent escape, Allied ingenuity is going to somehow give it the old college try.  <br />So having a murder take place among the POWs, probably committed by another POW makes it interesting.  For while it would be the Germans that do any firing squads, it is up to the prison population to take care of the trial.  One of the most interesting parts of the book are when Germans themselves are called as witnesses, and their observations on American justice are examined.  <br />Added to this interest is the race card.  It was true that black airmen fought in WWII amid a lot of bigotry.  As it was pointed out, many in charge were so skeptical that it could be done (in those times), that those that passed the training became a crack unit of soldiers.  But this being over 50 years ago, there were more then that would not believe this possible, and that adds to the hatred when the person accused of the murder happens to be a black airman.  <br />This is overall a good read, although when all the facts are finally presented, I'm not sure what happened can even be called a murder, given the circumstances of war.	2003-04-22
US	37005087	R3V1Q53VSFMCJY	0446612588	851224138	Mortal Allies	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Good thriller with just the right comedic touch	\\"Mortal Allies\\" tells the story of an Army lawyer assigned to defend an American soldier in South Korea accused of murder.  But there is layer upon layer of complications that make this an extremely interesting read. First, the accused is gay.  The victim is male lover of the accused.  The victim is also the son of the Minister of Defense of South Korea.  Finally, the case is airtight, with conviction virtually a certainty.  <br />All of the above would have made it a decent thriller, but there's more.  We get to look into the fragile alliance our country has with South Korea.  If not for the American presence, the Korean War would likely resume after half a century.  But there have been so many accounts of misbehaving U.S. soldiers that the Koreans are ready to toss them out anyway.  The danger that North Korea poses, both in the novel and in today's headlines make it better.  <br />But what puts it over the top is the relationship between the defense lawyers on the case.  The narrator is a fairly conservative Army lifer who was second in his class.  By one point.  To a female.  A very liberal female.  They were at each other's throats in college, and he finds himself with her on the defense team.  There has not been such good sparring since Bruce Willis took it up with Cybil Shepard, and this makes for great reading.  <br />The book executes a perfect balance between the serious and the humorous.  The murder plot gets more and more complicated, reaching to high levels of government   More people die, and we see the pain experienced from this very clearly.  I was hoping for more information on that most mysterious country, North Korea, and was not disappointed in that area either.  But the humor does balance out at the right times, as the lead character has to work with his old nemesis, her very gay team, and the issue of military gays in general.  The plot takes several twists, and quite a few secrets are revealed as we go along.  <br />I will make note of one ofthe secrets, but only to point out a hint.  Like the movie \\"The Sixth Sense\\", all the clues are there if you just look for them.  If you read the book, look for the term \\"blue eyes\\", and it will give you a connection for one of the books big surprises.  <br />Now go out and get the book.	2003-04-22
US	37005087	R11K6HDHUPFKAQ	0553580272	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Upholds the standard	Of course any \\"Dune\\" fan is going to be skeptical about the son of the author of one of the most successful science-fiction series in history trying to continue it.  Tougher still is the task of writing a \\"prequel\\" to the first novel, which would be tough even if done by the first author.  But fear not.  This work stands proudly with the original, and in some cases even exceeds it.  <br />For in this book you see how many of the characters you meet in the first book got there in the first place.  You get to see Duke Leto as a boy growing into young man.  You get to see how Jessica is conceived at part of the grand sisterhood plan.  You see how Duncan Idaho meets up with Leto.  And in one of the best twists in the book, you see how the Baron becomes his physically disgusting self.  This alone is worth reading.<br />What I liked about it is that it equals, and in many cases, even exceeds the ruthlessness of the characters we've grown to know.  There are virtually no breaks in the unrelenting pressure to survive by each an every character.  This comes both in the form of nature on the title planet, as well as the constant political maneuvering and backstabbing that occurs to gain power.  It would have been nice to see a little more human kindness, but it is probably what we have to expect for a story that sets up the Harkonnens holding the cards in the next story.  I enjoyed this one very much.	2003-04-22
US	37005087	R2G55C1Q3Q3MS2	0425178951	788292440	Deep South (An Anna Pigeon Novel)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Better as a series than a single book	I gather from the jacket and some of the text that this is part of an ongoing series of books dealing with the adventures of a female forest ranger/police officer.  This one's adventure consists of a job transition from the Western United States to something about as far a different environment as possible.  That is, modern day Mississippi.  <br />As a stand-alone book, it's pretty good.  There are two major areas of narration, the transition to a new part of the country, and a nasty murder to solve practically out of the gate.  As murder mysteries go, it's OK.  We find a body, track down acquaintances, and then get to figure out suspects and motive.  As a murder mystery is usually a murder mystery, I always try to add what I learn about the world surrounding it as part of making it interesting.  In this case, it's the world of Civil War enactors.  We get just a glimpse of their world, but it's covered in much more detail, and much more interestingly in Elmore Leonards' \\"Tishomingo Blues\\".<br />The other area is the transition.  I would have liked to have seen a longer novel where this area is explored.  We do get some conflicts, especially because she's a woman.  But they get into the murder right away, where and this part is left at the wayside.  I would imagine that the topic will be explored in more depth in \\"the further adventures\\", which would get the SERIES a four-star rating.  But as this detail is lacking in this particular book, I hold it to three stars.	2003-03-27
US	37005087	R20N4CXR8Y96ZM	1570429723	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night (Harry Bosch)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Standard Hollywood detective fare	Standard in this case is good, as there are a lot of good writers of detective/murder mysteries.  You've got at least one veteran that's seen it all, and that person probably has an authority figure problem.  There are strains on personal life.  And the mystery somehow draws the protagonist personally into the story.  <br />That's usually what you find in these books, and you find all of it here.  So when this happens I'll look to see if the mystery teaches me something about a world I've not been exposed to.  In the case of this book,  there's not much to offer.  The protagonist is a retired profiler, and we've seen that. The mystery also takes place in the Hollywood area, with people big in the movie business involved.  We've also seen all that before, and only have to look in the newspapers to see stories just as good.  We do get a bit of an art lesson, in that a killer is basing the crimes on the work of a medieval painter, and this is what gives it the third star.  But that's not enough to bring it into higher ground, especially with so much competition in this field.	2003-03-27
US	37005087	R3A8KIXVQQ4UXE	0451410173	662398497	Four Guys and Trouble	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good lifestyle description, needs more plot	OK, this review is coming from a white guy approaching middle age.  Who's reading a novel where all the characters are black.  Just because it looks like a good story.  Well, this is what goes through the white guy's mind while reading it.  <br />First, all the characters in the book seem to be well-educated.  Or in the process of being well-educated.  The \\"trouble\\" part of the title is even studying medicine.  For this I have a lot of admiration.  <br />All the characters in the book also seem to have no problems getting as much sex as they desire, with as many partners as they want.  Even the married ones.  And when the partners cross paths, it doesn't seem to cause the level of tragedy one might think.  For this I am envious.<br />The characters in the book also seem to not have any problems with money.  Their cars have stickers with the names \\"Lexus\\" and \\"Mercedes\\".  They wear fashionable clothes, and seem to lead the lifestyles of the \\"What sort of man reads Playboy?\\" ads.  Now I have a Master's Degree and have worked in the computer profession for many years.  Yet my lifestyle nowhere near comes to the fairly young adults portrayed in this book.  For this, I'm a bit skeptical, and this feeling would be there whether the characters are white or black. <br />The characters in the book use swearing a lot (and I mean a LOT) more liberally than I see in my circles.  They are also quicker to use some very mean words   to describe their lovers much more early into a disagreement than I see in my circles.  Sure, they are just words, and they are used in a more elegant, educated manner than say your basic white redneck does.  But for this, I just see a reinforcement of some of the stereotypes that the author seems to be wanting to dispel with his characters.  <br />Oh yes, the story.  Well, there really isn't that much of a plot more than a very interesting description of a lifestyle that I frankly wouldn't mind having myself.  It concerns the post-college years of four men who were in the same fraternity.  A friend of the four dies, and asks them to watch over his sister.  Well, that sister is all grown up now, in medical school, and has her own mind.  She's also become a very attractive young lady, and for a group of guys who need to buy more guns (only in a figurative sense) just to carve more notches in, we can see what problems this is going to cause.  <br />But that's it.  The book is very readable, and I recommend it, but I'd give it a higher rating if something kind of important happened.  Something that goes beyond who's boinkin' who, which dominates the plot so much that at one point in the book you get four consecutive scenes of our boys in the sack.  It's so prominent here I've got to think the author is a bit too obsessed with the subject.	2003-02-23
US	37005087	RO9N3XSAPA3JM	0316279722	135747598	The Punch: One Night, Two Lives, and the Fight That Changed Basketball Forever	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting read even if you don't follow basketball	The event that inspires this book, and affected forever the lives of a handful of people, took one second.  I guess you could also say the same thing about the hundreds of shootings that take place throughout the world every day.  What this incident has in common with those is that all are violent acts, in this case the title \\"Punch\\" of one professional basketball player to another about 25 years ago. But few of the shootings that happen every day have been broadcast thousands of time to the entire world.  Thus, fodder for a full-length book. <br />Fans of sports should like this book very much.  Both players, Kermit Washington and Rudy Tomjonovich, were both prominent players in the NBA.  If you are a sports fan, you know of the incident, and will find the details leading up to and following it extremely interesting.  Especially since Tomjonovich, thanks to Michael Jordan's first retirement, managed to coach a few championships with the Houston Rockets back in the 90's.  <br />If you are not a sports fan, though, I'm not so sure.  I am somewhat of a sports fan, and saw the Saturday Night Live spoof of the incident \\"live\\", the one that introduced it to the non-sporting public.  But will it hold the interest of the average person?  I'm not quite sure.  You get your standard story of two athletes, who worked very, very hard to get where they were.  You see how they become players in the NBA.  You see the scenarios leading up to the infamous game, how the NBA was already having a reputation as being too violent.  They were almost waiting for an incident like this to prove their point of cracking down on violence.  <br />Well, they got one, and it was a nasty one.  Tomjonovich saw a fight at the other end of the court involving Washington.  Washington, hearing footsteps, turned and blindly punched him without really even looking.  The punch, just by sheer luck landed so squarely that it literally caved in Tomjonovich's face.  A few millimeters one way and it's just a broken nose.   But a few the other way, and it could have been death.   As they discuss the incident over and over again, this is giving away nothing.   <br />The aftermath is reported in great detail, leading all the way to 2002.  It's true that it was a very unfortunate thing, and Washington probably did not intend for what happened to happen.  But it did, and there is something called responsibility.  Considering that some people have done jail time for less violent acts, a six-month suspension could be considered fair.  You be the judge. <br />The book hints that misfortunes that happened to both of them can be pointed back to the big incident.  However, I'm not sure I really buy it.  You see the background of both players, and can see that these misfortunes are things that just happen in life.  That Washington can't seem to get a GREAT job after his retirement is probably the situation that many ex-athletes with no other skills face.  And Tomjonovich's behavior was probably applauded by many, and could have potentially killed someone had it been allowed to continue.  <br />Interesting stuff, but maybe only to a select audience.	2003-02-23
US	37005087	ROYGM0WZEU9GN	0425184226	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	See the movie or not see the movie?	I've heard too many bad things about changes in the movie.  I'm cringing as whether or not to ruin a good reading experience by seeing something completely different.  I can't imagine Ben Afflick in any way, shape or form playing the Jack Ryan of this book, but I'll save that for the movie review, if I do decide to see it.<br />The above is meant as a compliment to the book.  I've now got at least four Jack Ryan's under my belt, and with this one, I went back in Jack Ryan history.  I've seen him become President in later stories, and this one provides a lot of missing links as to how he eventually achieves this position.  Once again, the world is in turmoil.  Boy is it in turmoil.  Seems that the Israelis lost an A-Bomb a few years ago.  Seems the some Arab bad guys found it.  Seems that they want to blow up the Super Bowl with it.  Seems this could trigger an even bigger nuclear conflict with our new buddies, the Russians.  <br />Jack Ryan, of course, is right in the middle of it.  While few people in history realistically get to save the world so many times, I enjoy reading his adventures.  Just the basic decency of the guy, with just enough flaws,  is refreshing, especially in this world where each new election brings us more and more less-desirable leaders.<br />A good human touch is added this time to all the political and technical intrigue.  Faced with overwhelming pressure on the job, Jack starts drinking a few too many glasses of wine.  This contributes somewhat to job performance, but especially reeks havoc on his personal life.  Not taking his kid to a ball game IS a big thing, and Jack repeatedly puts it off.  He starts to shoot duds in the sack, which, coinciding with a smear campaign on his career, makes his wife convinced of infidelity.  I think adding these personal life touches makes it a better story.  <br />And of course, that story gets awesome in it's scope.  We see the world once again at the brink of war, and see that there are factions in theMiddle East that just don't want us all to get along.  The fact that this is a ten-year-old book speaks volumes about reality today.  And the specifics on exactly how to put together a nuclear device add the technical reality famous in Clancy novels.  This one stands up as one of the best.	2003-02-09
US	37005087	RI4E0E1MZRIKU	0446600660	976761954	Strip Tease	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Read the book before you see the movie	The reviews of the movie made from this book generally panned the stupidity and \\"unrealism\\" of the characters.  Those who took this route were badly off-base if they didn't read the source material.  For if I am ever to write about, Carl Hiaasen is going to be my inspiration.  <br />This is a novel where beautiful women are naked for most of the story.  Yet it is not an erotic tale, and those wanting to pursue it as a book you would hide in the dresser would be misguided.  For this story deals with the BUSINESS of taking one's clothes off for a living.  Because it's all business, it's not erotic, even though it explains the erotic attraction of the industry.  But this is not to say it's still not terrific reading.  <br />I've read several of the author's works.  He has a style where practically every sentence drips with a cynicism that only slightly skewers reality.  Practically every character has flaws, as we all do, but it's those flaws that become the dominant part the character, and therefore fodder for a delicious literary dissection whenever they appear in the plot.  Even a \\"good guy\\", like Shad the bouncer, is a felon who is planning to scam society, and is willing to punch out anyone in his way.  <br />The only one to escape this torment is our heroine, Erin, which I find the only slight flaw to the story.  As the poor mother given the shaft by society, and \\"forced\\" to earn her living this way, she's just a little too perfect as a human.  She gets away with too much just by basically demanding it, and it would have been nice to see her nailed in a comical way, also. <br />The story would have been great with just the story of mom having to earn her living this way, but what makes it superb is how the author injects just the right amount of social commentary into this stories.  When the average person thinks of Florida, where his books are based, they often don't stray beyond Mickey the rodent.  They don't think about how developers are trashing much of thefragile beauty of the state.  They know about how industry is pouring tons of pollutants into the Everglades.  And when they put sugar in, well, everything, they don't WANT to know the exploitation of people, the land, and entire countries that goes on to get the stuff to your table, and for letting us know this, Carl Hiaasen is my literary hero.	2003-02-09
US	37005087	R3M6GZ32IHZPBN	0345404793	483248967	Protect and Defend (Kerry Kilcannon)	Books	3	5	13	N	N	Pretty exhaustive, if biased coverage to two big issues	I will first compliment the author on doing a pretty good job of trying to present MOST of the issues covering the topics of this book; namely abortion and political maneuvering.  I say pretty good, not outstanding for a few reasons.  First, the author, clearly liberal, does try to humanize most of his conservative opponents, which I doubt a conservative writer taking on something this big would do if the situation were reversed.  Yet ALL the liberal characters portrayed are compassionate human beings, and ALL the really nasty people happen to be on the conservative side.  There are also a few missing pieces in the abortion argument, which I'll address later.  By the way, the author of this review leans slightly towards the left for his political camp.   <br />The book builds up to interesting stories at once.  First, the machinations involved in selecting a Supreme Court Chief Justice. The second is a challenge by a fifteen year-old pregnant girl who wants to have an abortion without her parents' consent.  <br />Less compelling of the two is the Supreme Court story, only because it does leave a bad taste in one's mouth about how high-stakes politics works.  No player is without blame in this story, which makes one wonder sometimes if we are doing it right.  The argument for this centers around the practice that getting into power is by far the most important goal, much more than actually doing the best thing for the people they govern.    So much so that they will do whatever they can to hinder the progress of government when the other guy is in power to show that your own side can do it better. <br /> Both sides will also present extreme cases as the norm when trying to deface the other side, which the issues in this book do big time.  The issues of smear campaigns and digging up personal dirt also get examined.  I should point out that in the book it is the conservatives who publicly drag a liberal's sexuality through the mud, where the only real instance of thisI can recall is the liberal smear campaign of Clarence Thomas.  Just trying to play fair here.  <br />The other story concerns the abortion story.  I will give credit to the author by bringing most of the arguments both sides have on the issue, and going into great depth on both sides.  The author clearly thinks abortion is the way to go, but he does give the pro-life ample time by describing the actual procedure of a so-called \\"partial birth\\" ( a media-generated term, we learn) abortion, the one the fifteen-year-old would have to have.  But he leaves out two important issues, which tend to tip HIS argument in HIS favor.<br />  First, while proclaiming that abortion is good because it prevents unwanted children from being born to parents that can't afford them, the fact remains that most abortions are done by middle and upper class women as a convenient form of birth control.  Lower income women keep their babies more than upper class women.  Second, the abortion doctor they present is a compassionate one who would only perform \\"partial-birth\\" when it will benefit the health of the mother.  It doesn't bother to mention that most abortion clinics really are \\"mills\\", where the academic worst of the medical-school crop run businesses strictly based on the fact that the more abortions they perform, the more money they will make.  This, and the fact that most of the pro-lifers in the trial do get there heads handed to them by the young feminist lawyer point out that all that is right and true seems to belong to the liberal world.  As a left-leaner, I don't buy all of it.	2003-02-03
US	37005087	RGX9R82KR5137	0446530387	653149712	Stone Kiss (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An unusual joining of different worlds	If you describe just the crime and apprehension of the criminals in most novels, and nothing else, you'd see a pattern of sameness that makes most of these stories boring after awhile.  Especially the apprehension part.  It's frustrating in some good stories, even in the ones where there is good storytelling to see it end in a shootout.  So what makes crime novels worth reading (and reviewing) are the worlds created in these stories.  That's what I judge this type of book on.<br />And so it goes with this story.  A Los Angeles detective returns to New York after a long absence to investigate the killing of a relative.  A twist in this one is that the dead man's teenage niece, the last person to see him alive, is missing.  And here is where it gets good.<br />The family of the murdered man is Jewish, which wouldn't be anything unusual, except that several are very Orthodox.  This starts to make it good because the very rigid lives these folks lead, or at least are supposed to lead, provide stark contrast to where the story goes next.<br />It is here where we are taken into the world of  runaway girls, pornography, prostitution, drug dealing, and organized crime.  It's a very gritty world without a lot of joy, but I'll only reveal that the protagonists search takes him there.  Whether the missing girl is involved in any of this, or to what extent the other Orthodox practitioners are I will leave to you to find out by reading it.  Let's just say that all people are well, human, and it's a good thing the God they believe in is a forgiving one.	2003-01-15
US	37005087	R2R7BDAGAQCXC9	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Takes you right into battle	There is a part of this book that takes it from being a very good war story to an exceptional account of human behavior.  It is near the halfway point, when the author takes time to cover the human side of the enemy.  It would seem that the enemy, were actually people.  They wrote poetry, kept detailed diaries, and looked at pictures of their loved ones between battles.  Kind of takes the edge off the illiterate ... peasant impression we are often left with when dealing with the commies.<br />The book's main focus is on a few days of intense battle during the Vietnam war.  It seems like a lot longer, as an incredible amount of carnage happens in this short time.  The intensity of the battle scenes is as descriptive as I've ever read, actually getting scary for quite a bit of the story. <br />There was a time reading this book when I thought it would be lacking in writing pace.  That is, way too much action without a breather.  That would have been a minor flaw in an otherwise exceptional book.  But even that is a not a problem, as the book winds up appropriately.  <br />It begins with a brief history of Vietnam, and pulls no punches by stating that maybe we should have not stuck our noses in there in the first place, given the incredible cost in human life.  But a soldier follows orders, even when it means walking through grass so tall you don't see people coming your way until they are a few feet from you.  Having to decide whether that person is friend or foe in the split second you have must have been a terrifying experience.  <br />And so it goes for battle after battle. While it may not be of interest to have the names of many killed listed to the reader, hey, these guys paid the ultimate price and deserve recognition.  The book also wisely winds down at the end, giving the stories of what happened to the few who survived the carnage.  Some of these stories are happy, some sad, but that's the point.  These were ordinary people thrown into extraordinary situations, and their return to \\"normal\\" life would never look the same again.  <br />This book should be required reading.	2003-01-15
US	37005087	RJIEYA4UV7V4O	0743204840	843105206	Jolie Blon's Bounce: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Captures the "non-tourist" side of New Orleans	When I used to live in Illinois, my favorite vacation places were New Orleans and Las Vegas.  I ended up vacationing in Las Vegas about a dozen times, and eventually moved there.  New Orleans, on the other hand, was visited a half dozen times, and each time the verdict was \\"Visit, yes, live there, definitely not\\".  This book gives some great illustrations to back up that thinking.  <br />Yes, the food is unsurpassed in New Orleans.  In fact, it's my favorite form of cooking.  The incredible influence of music on just about everybody just about turns the corner to make one one to be there more often.  And nobody throws a party quite like this town.  So what's the problem?<br />Well, the book will tell you, there is a staggering amount of dirt and garbage thrown about the town.  I did not know that politicians will take money to have hazardous waste buried in the state, often in rural black areas.  But I did experience the whopping 8+ percent sales tax, which includes food, which puts a big burden on the poor, while the wealthier get incredible tax breaks.  They take a back seat to nobody when it comes to political corruption.    <br />It's also a dangerous town.  I know my new town has it's own problem, but New Orleans, while being transient, is also a port town, which adds to the potential undesirables it draws.  When night falls on the city, many, many people are already camping out for the night, sleeping on the filthy sidewalks, often surrounded by trash. The murder rate is sky high. This really puts a strain on even the toughest tourist.  <br />This is the New Orleans described in this book, which, by the way, is a pretty good, if gory murder mystery.  Well, not exactly a mystery, because the bad guys are pretty much known, but the baddest of them all, a character named Legion, also shows another dark aspect of the city.  This is the subjugation of blacks, who had it the roughest here during slave days, and still have some of the worst cards dealt to them out ofany state in the country.  The evil part that Legion plays in the story makes for fascinating reading while making a commentary about the area. <br />Please notice the four stars.  While all the above may sound negative, it's not.  The book is great because the author has laid out this type of world.  The one that doesn't exist in the travel brochures, but is readily visible to any visitor.	2003-01-04
US	37005087	R2OD7HKAPYKBZF	0385484771	510051158	A Portrait of Jesus	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The most uplifting book I've ever read	At first I resisted this book, thinking it would be mostly boring preaching.  I finally went for it, hoping to find some new biographical material that forty-six years of Roman Catholicism hadn't taught me.  What I found, to my surprise, was a new way to look at religious beliefs that just blew me away.  <br />The Jethro Tull album \\"Aqualung\\" came to mind while reading this.  In the liner notes for that classic, Ian Anderson playfully states that \\"In the beginning Man created God, and in his image did he create Him\\".  This is not blasphemy, folks.  It is a statement that shows how humans have twisted religion to fit their own selfish needs over the past couple thousand years.  The result is a state of religious thinking that often has little to do with the original message of Christ, if you take what the author has to say seriously.<br />...The Jesus as portrayed in this book is a refreshingly great guy that specifically tried to get away from exactly what happened before and after his time on earth. Jesus came into a Jewish world that was so bogged down with rules and laws that it took away from the few simple ones that are the most important.  Which is, love your neighbor and your God, and things will find a way of working out.  <br />...The book me feel good enough about myself to give it ten stars, but I'm holding back at four for a reason.  While uplifting, this is the author's own interpretation of Christ.  A lot of these interpretations make sense.  But while he mentions Jesus had a great sense of humor, I would have liked to have seen more examples.  And he does portray our Lord and Savior as a party guy who seemed to prefer hanging with sinners (maybe they're more fun), had no trouble supplying more booze to the party, and had no problem laughing at a dirty joke or two.  While I'd love to accept this interpretation of reality, it does at times sound a little too good to be true.  If it is, then this is the Jesus I want to follow.	2003-01-04
US	37005087	RW9S0DA8LAV5S	0451176464	591143364	Gerald's Game (Signet)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Social statement or porno?	I'm really struggling with the rating for this one, because this is one of the most readable of Stephen King novels.  My favorites of his are the ones that tell the story, get to the point, and end, not the ones that ramble on in tangent stories and universes.  The good ones on this list include \\"Thinner\\", \\"Misery\\", and \\"Christine\\".  This one is pretty good in this category, except for some problems I have with the story.  <br />I don't want to reveal too much of the plot, even though it seems to be easily available below.  I'll just say that the main character gets herself into a situation a little bit like \\"Misery\\", in that she is trapped in a bed for most of the book.  While different than \\"Misery\\", this situation is every bit as frightening as in the other book, as is the frustration with repeated unsuccessful escape attempts.  For these parts, the book is very good.  <br />It's what happens while she is trapped that bothers me.  She begins to see things, which may or may not be hallucinations.  The pain she is suffering starts triggering flashbacks of childhood sexual abuse from her father.  In true Stephen King form, we are presented with the possibility that this is the ghost of the father returning to her in another helpless situation.  <br />It seems to me that King is trying to add some social commentary about sexual abuse in his novel, and this is admirable.  However, there are two problems with it.  First, the repeated flashbacks throughout the book end up having nothing to do with the conclusion of the book.  If he's going to add this to his story, it should actually tie in with the story, instead of being a false alarm. <br />The second problem is that he gets into too much detail with the flashbacks.  While I have a problem with stories that are supposed to titillate and fall short, this one has the opposite problem.  It's trying to portray situations as being bad, but is doing too good a job describing them.  There are several of these flashbacks throughout her ordeal, each getting more and more explicit.  The subject he is trying to show as bad really is bad, but it's presented in far too much an erotic manner to get it's point accross.  Thus, the novel may appeal to pedophiles in a manner that the author does not intend it to.	2002-12-11
US	37005087	R2WI9ABWJ0JNMJ	1585671975	689113993	The Company: A Novel of the CIA	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Awesome in it's scope	There are some plot lines which are open to debate throughout this novelization, and they will be discussed below. But these small points aside, this is one whopping good tale of the behind-the-scenes goings-on of the governments of the United States and USSR/Russia over the last fifty years. It shows that in the world of spying, there are really no good guys or bad guys, but merely winners and losers. <br />The explanation is simple. While we in the U.S. would like to consider ourselves the good guys, and we probably are, we are far from being angels. We have committed genocide against a race (i.e., Native Americans). We enslaved another race for approximately 100 years. We have propped up countless governments with terrible human rights records. And when it comes to fighting dirty, our spies can do it as well as anybody's can. The story covers this issue of \\"ends justifying the means\\" throughout, and leaves the reader pretty much knowing that \\"good guys\\" is a relative term. <br />But that aside, the events covered show how fragile and volatile the governments of the world are. It starts off roughly after World War II, where the Russians, who were our Allies, quickly become enemies even before the war is over. We see that Joseph Stalin was a murderer of his own people before the war, and picked up where he left off right after it. His invasions of neighboring countries killed millions, and the book estimates he murdered sixty million (!!!) of his own people. This is pretty heavy stuff.<br />From the early antics of the Soviets, we move onto the Bay of Pigs fiasco under President Kennedy. The book also makes the point of saying that Vietnam was partially an attempt by the good guys to show how tough we were following this failure. The fact that we engaged the services of organized crime for covert operations in Cuba once again darkens that \\"good guy\\" role. <br />While it is easier in hindsight, the book also does a great job in showing that the first conflict in Afghanistan was much more than Russia invading that country. We see the anxiety caused by trying to help turn that country into Russia's Vietnam, but realizing that the citizens of that invaded country had hate not only for the invaders, but those Western powers trying to \\"help\\" them. That animosity is the root of many of our problems today. We finally see the collapse of the Soviet Union, and how there was never any guarantee that this turn to capitalism would last. <br />All this is shown throught the eyes of several CIA agents who lived through all, or at least most of it. The book makes a case that anyone who makes spying one's career is probably doomed to a life of misery and heartache. The decisions one makes are seldom pretty, and offers not even the joy of a job \\"well done\\" at the end. <br />Some of the points the book makes are subject to debate. It depends on whose viewpoint you read. This book makes the claim that Chicago mobster Sam Giancanna met his end as revenge from Castro for attempting to knock him off, while I've always thought it was his own people that did him in. It makes the case that the Bay of Pigs was an ego trip for the Kennedy brothers, who chickened out with finishing the job once it got too hot. And it portrays Ronald Reagan as a doddering old fool who never quite recovered from his assasination attempt.<br />There may be degrees of truth to this, but I salute the author for at least taking a stand. He's woven a great historical novel that I plan on picking up again in the near future.	2002-12-03
US	37005087	R1IPG49O4JKQ9E	0786868015	781732773	The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Corporate man-bashing chick book	Now that lesbianism is in vogue for pop culture, I suppose we'll be seeing it quite frequently, especially in \\"scary\\" books.  But don't get me wrong.  I'm writing this from my male point of view, and pardon me if I veer towards my pig side while writing this.  It's not that I don't want to read about her lesbian, as well as sexual awakening thoughts.  On the contrary, bring 'em on!  But I don't need to get the thought introduced, and then it being abruptly dismissed with quotes like \\"which I will dare not reveal\\" here.  This mentality of \\"introduce the topic but not too much\\" smacks of corporate decision-making more than story-writing, which is why that word appears in the title.  The fact that it leaves \\"the rest\\" to the imagination makes it a chick book.  <br />I'll get back to this, but it's fair to describe the plot.  Our heroine is introduced as a nineteen-year-old woman at the turn of the twentieth century.  She is about to become engaged to a very wealthy man.  He is planning on building a huge home.  It is giving away nothing to say that this house is being built on an Indian burial ground, which we know is going to cause nothing but problems.  Her problems with the home, as well as her marriage, make up the story.  <br />Yes, the guy is a cad.  On the other hand, the lady is wealthy beyond most of our dreams, and he does seem to give her all the money she wants.  He also makes occasional reconciliation attempts, but throughout the entire book, she is pretty much miserable.  It doesn't help that people keep disappearing (women) or getting killed (men) around the house.  Another problem I have with the book is that we are well into the story before the supernatural element starts emerging, which I thought was too long to wait.  <br />But back to our heroine.  OK, we're supposed to feel sorry for her and her terrible husband.  But even with all of her curious thoughts about coupling, her attitude about marriage is that it, and I quote, \\"to provide men with unspeakable pleasures\\".  Gee, where do you even begin with a statement like that.  Or my favorite of the whole book.  In a rare moment of contentment, she actually develops a playful streak.  Her line on this is \\"I am not without a sense of prank\\".  Wow! What a party chick!  Sorry, but I'm not sure that I blame the husband with a wife who cuts loose like this.  <br />I wouldn't moan about the above so much if we got more horror story and less abbreviated titillation-without-payoff.  Which is my biggest problem with the book.  Once again, why would a male need to read this?	2002-11-01
US	37005087	R14RNVFPQ0JSL5	0553528912	782272714	The Summons (John Grisham)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Grisham	OK, so it's a quick read, and the character development isn't that strong.  But there's something about a Grisham novel that's comforting to read, even if it's a fairly quick read as this one is.  His narrative quality makes it easy to get a grasp of characters, and even the bad guys can be somewhat likeable.  <br />The story covers a son who is visiting his dying judge father.  Only the father is lying dead on the couch when he gets there.  The key to the novel is that the son finds something in the house totally unexpected.  Something that will change his life, and that of his chemically dependent brother.  I thought it prudent to keep this a secret, but even the editorial reviews spill the beans.  Look at those if you wish to find it out.  <br />But it does turn out to be a good human nature story.  The son has to decide what to do with the find, as it could smear the good name of his father.  Or would it?  Most of the story involves the son trying to figure out exactly where the find came from.  And how to act while keeping the secret.  I will admit that I would probably have done many of the same things he did, even the ones that were morally questionable.  Read it to see what you think you would do.<br />The solution takes us into the world of drug lawsuits, where settlements are made for hundreds of people at a time.  We get to learn this world, and it does tie together neatly.  And there's, in my opinion, a great surprise ending.  So maybe it isn't his best, but I enjoyed it very much.	2002-10-29
US	37005087	R33F5MCUJPRVWW	0553110942	737734239	Carnal Innocence	Books	1	14	27	N	N	Hey Jethro, stop doing that in the SEEment pond!	.... <br /> ...  I like a sexy murder mystery as much as anyone (on the other hand, I guess not), but I kept doing double takes as I kept going through the book. I found I was reading a story about a bunch of characters that make \\"Hee Haw\\" and \\"The Dukes of Hazzard\\" look like high-brow art. Every woman has two first names, everybody carries a gun, everybody has a Jack Daniels intravenous tube attached. You would think there would be no place to move around in Mississippi, as everyone's activities during all their waking hours are enough to populate every square inch of the state. <br />I was doing the double takes because at first I thought it was a satire. I like the stories of Carl Hiassen, who writes about characters like this all the time, but with a devilish style that lets you in on the joke. But no such tone here, as this is meant to be a serious novel. <br />I always liked the works of Southern authors like Pat Conroy and Carl Hiassen, and thought the people they wrote about were representations of that area of the country.  Reading this book, one does indeed get the impression that all the women down there DO have two first names, everyone DOES carry a gun, the corn likker comes out of the drinking fountains, and the folks make the mating habits of rabbits look downright reserved! <br />Forgive me if this book brings out my cynical streak.	2002-10-29
US	37005087	R14R5AYICR83F5	0385239548	651042649	Trail of Tears: The Rise and Fall of the Cherokee Nation	Books	4	7	11	N	N	One of several works to balance the whole story	As much as we'd like to pat ourselves on the back these days by saying we are the nation that is holding up the true ideals of civilization, we should always be aware that this wasn't always the case.  While I believe we are the best nation on earth, we had our growing pains as much as any other group of people.  Slavery is a permanent black eye.  And while we condemn Sadaam Hussein for killing his own people, our country has to remember that at one time doing everything we could to eliminate the people who were here before the Caucasians was virtually government policy.  <br />&quot;The Trail of Tears&quot; is only one of these incidents.  History is loaded with them, including the government policy to almost make the American bison extinct, for the sole purpose of removing the food source of native Americans.  &quot;The Trail of Tears&quot; deals with the &quot;relocation&quot; of the Cherokee people.  No, it is not the definitive story. However, it is well researched, and presents one point of view.  It is recommended that this work be read, but others also, to get a well-rounded view of a piece of history that more Americans should be aware of.	2002-10-24
US	37005087	RK1M2O548UD9V	156025324X	560678128	Mob: Stories of Death and Betrayal from Organized Crime (Adrenaline)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nice sampler from the mob buffet	Only the most ardent organized crime reader probably won't find something new in this collection of short stories dealing with reader fascination with dangerous lifestyles.  This sampler of mob-lore covers stories allegedly by the folks who lived and died it, and some history to add dessert to your meal.  <br />For those who like the relative safety of their reading chair, we get a step-by-step process of the so-called \\"hit men\\" of the mob.  They are so-called because most members who have reached any decent level of leadership have all done at least one hit, so the true full-time professional is not that common.  For this profession though, we do get an evolution of the man, and his general techniques.  <br />The stories here are excerpts from other works, so if your a mob junkie, you might have read a lot of it already.  I previously had read the Sammy Gravano book that contributed this excerpt.  You not only get a sample of the self-admitted bad man, but also a taste of what I didn't like in the full-length book, which was a constant jabbering of what a decent, honorable guy Sammy really is.  This book, was, of course, before the guy got busted out West for running meth labs while in witness protection.<br />My favorite of the \\"true life\\" stories was the one that inspired the movie \\"Donnie Brasco\\".  Here we have the story of how a guy had to sacrifice a lot of family time over a period of years to do his undercover work, even once having to spend Christmas with mobsters when he promised his own family some quality Holiday time.  The book I'm reviewing is good because now I want to read the whole \\"Brasco\\" saga.<br />In the history part, we do get a brief glimpse of how this whole type of society came about.  True, the people of Italy were extremely oppressed at the time of it's formation, but it also tells how the local culture first establishes male \\"honor\\", then expects him to prove it via competition, and if you won by using your own rules, that made you that much more of a worthy opponent.  To his credit, the editor of this compilation does not glorify this behavior, and makes it clear to the audience that any honorable \\"codes\\" only last as long as is convenient for anyone involved.	2002-10-21
US	37005087	RELM73UJ2BKWH	1568952244	393560935	Riding the Rap	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The further adventures of Harry Arno	What we have here is typical Elmore Leonard, but I mean that as a compliment.  He has written another short but interesting story featuring mostly people whose lives would be easier if it weren't for all those silly rules society imposes on them.  As they put it in &quot;Goodfellas&quot;, people who can't turn to the police for help with their problems.<br />This one features a character from a former book, Harry Arno.  He sends someone to collect a gambling debt, but gets the tables turned on him, at least temporarily.  The collectee, instead of paying, talks the hired collector into joining him in a kidnap for profit (is there any other kind) scheme.  And guess who the first kidnappee will be?  Try initials H.A.  <br />Leonard's books are delightful because most of the time the characters are interesting enough to want to get to know better.  Harry's not a REALLY bad guy.  He's fairly cultured, and prefers the finer things in life.  He just has habits that happen to be against the law.  So when the tables are turned, at least for the first time, we sympathize with him.  And so on and so on, until things are more or less resolved, and we've gotten to know a few people we wouldn't ordinarily get know just a little bit better.	2002-10-21
US	37005087	R1Z6FYT87XCI39	0553278274	957420140	A Night to Remember	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The firstest with the mostest	For those of you who are Titanic aficionados, practically everything you will have read or seen about the incident probably used this book as a major reference.  Which makes it the Titanic Bible.  No, we don't get the love story, but there is enough here to make your emotions work the way they're supposed to.  <br />While there are other studies, what makes this one valuable is that the author interviewed over sixty survivors for the work.  This is obviously a feat that can never be duplicated again, so we need to thank Walter Lord for getting the information while we can.  <br />So we get the statistics of the ship, which are interesting.  We also get to know the changes made to sea travel, and society in general due to the incident.  But we also get what have now become the famous &quot;What ifs?&quot;.  There are almost a dozen things, from ship construction to someone merely taking a telegram more seriously, where, if just were to go the other way, it's very possible that nearly everybody could have been rescued.  This is essential reading for those interested in the topic.	2002-10-15
US	37005087	R216TKKWWXC9SE	0385413041	956782258	Beach Music	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Breathtaking story	I've heard people have been tinkering with the idea of making a movie of this, starring Brad Pitt.  I almost hope they don't try, as it would be very difficult to capture this story in even a three hour movie without blowing the balance of characters in this story somehow.  The cutting of any character's story would probably ruin it.  <br />This is one whopping good tale that somehow connects the Holocaust with South Carolina from the 50's to the 80's.  It is the story of a group of friends, mostly four young men and two women, who grow up together, share the pain and/or abuse of their parents, drift irrevocably apart (or do they?), and come together to try and put the pieces of the whole story together.  <br />It is not giving anything that is not on the dust jacket to say that one of the six committed suicide.  One is a fugitive.  One is in self-imposed exile.  One is a politician trying to use the former assocations for political gain.  And another just happens to be a movie producer who thinks the public would love to see on the screen what we are treated to in the book.  <br />The story takes the reader back and forth in time for the six main characters.  But almost as important are the parents of several of them.  While The Big Six all have their problems and flaws, it is the story of some of these parents that really grabs you.  I've mentioned the Holocaust, and it's no surprise that this breaks your heart, albeit in ways, believe it or not, other than the usual atrocities we hear about.  But once you think the lowest depths of human behavior have been reached, the story of another of the parents appears, and you see that it was not the case. <br />It is these supporting stories that, in my eyes, make the story really great.  For just about all of The Big Six are big achievers to some extent.  We get several head cheerleaders, an aspiring governor, a famous writer, and a movie producer.  I would have preferred if these people weren't all so important, and that's why I love the stories of the parents.  For these were ordinary people who both did bad things, and had extremely bad things done to them, mostly not through their fault.  This is a long book, but the story also zooms by as you can't wait to see what happens next.	2002-10-04
US	37005087	R2BLNZ5SGU4W4Y	0425179435	540687402	The Pearl Harbor Murders	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting background overcomes ordinary plot	Most of the time when I read a mystery I don't really care about the mystery part. I mean, how many ways can you solve a crime, when literally thousands of mysteries have been written in recorded history. This one is no different. We get a murder, and someone is found standing over the body with blood on his hands. As this happens fairly early in the book, we can now eliminate ol' bloody hands as the suspect. <BR>So what I look for is what kind of story is woven around what is usually the same old thing. In the case of a historical novel, I want to get a feeling for what people are thinking at the time. The fact that this one takes place a day or two before the Pearl Harbor invasion seems like a great situation. I liked it a bit, but still have a lot of problems with it. <BR>First, as mentioned above, the story is very ordinary. Yes, you know when somebody has blood on their hands early in the story, he's probably not the murderer. But there were also predictable things that deal with what I was interested in, which was the historical events surrounding the story. First, we have both German and Japanese characters. As we are at war with them, or about to be, what a surprise that virtually all of them are unpleasant characters. Also, we get to see the time-worn tactic of having those in authority insist nothing bad is going to happen, just so we the reader can smirk and wait for them to be told \\"I told you so\\". I'm sure these situations occurred, but it trivializes an important event. <BR>The part I dislike the most however, is why we need to have a celebrity enter the story as an amateur detective. I love Larry McMurtry novels, but hate it when he puts real-life characters in fictional settings. And I don't like it here. I don't care that the author had the writer of Tarzan as one of his boyhood heroes, and find this device only makes it more unbelievable. <BR>So why three stars? Well, we DO get a decent glimpse into life in Hawaii around World War II. Those youngerpeople that believe they invented sex can see that libidos ran very high in those days (and any other time, for that matter). And with the definate threat that the hunky guys might be blown to pieces at any time in war, the ladies were no doubt a lot more accomodating than you might think in that time. Think about that the next time you see your grandmother, or even your mother. <BR>And the author does a good job of describing the actual attack. This, to me, is the meat of the story. The fact that it came when people were least prepared for it (early Sunday morning). The fact the people at first assumed it was a military exercise. And the quick sobering up that all of a sudden made America a little more grown up. This just about overcomes the \\"main\\" plot that is little more, if not less, than a TV detective story.	2002-10-03
US	37005087	R7GH1CI0ABA6I	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	I guess they had sex in those days, too	This book is from the era of the golden age of the detective movie.  It's a black and white world full of deceit and double crosses.  And if you just watch the movies from that time, there is a lot of passion, but no sex.  <br />Now if you read books, like this excellent one, you can see that people were just as nasty and sensous when it comes to sex and we are now.  And maybe they did it with a little more style, too.  <br />The novel covers a case that involves pornography, so I guess they had that in those days, too.  It covers a pair of rich young women who are as loose as one can imagine.  People don't take their clothes off in the movies from that time, but they sure do in the book.  <br />Ok, there's more to it than the above.  If you read this book for the first time, and didn't know that much about the background, you might think it a bit cliched'.  You have the wisecracking detective who has a smart line even when a gun it pointed at him.  Heard this a lot of times before, right?  Well, this is one of the original that had this style.  And even if I've heard the type before, reading this book for the first time made me appreciate Raymond Chandler's style.  Not only has it been copied countless times, but it stands up as a better work than many of it's imitators.	2002-09-20
US	37005087	R3SZZN40CU5YTA	0671530771	477282352	How To Draw Comics The Marvel Way	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Nice progression with the tasks	I remember when this book came out years ago, and was always curious about it.  But other of life's callings caused me to never pursue it.  Now that I have a six-year-old boy who likes to draw, it renewed it's interest with me, and yes, I picked up a copy from Amazon.com.  I'll review it on two fronts.<br />First, I looked through it myself.  I was impressed with the way they started you off with the basics, and got progressively harder.  One could say \\"Duh!\\" to this, but the good point about it is that it gets you into actually drawing the famous Marvel characters relatively early.  Like with the second lesson.  It also takes you into the world of the things to look out for if you were involved in putting an actual comic book together.  So not only do they cover how to do the action figures, it shows how to draw backgrounds to provide prospective, covers the topic of inking, and even has a chapter on drawing covers!  So it does cover the entire spectrum.<br />Second was how the boy took to it.  While he has a busy schedule, and while no, he doesn't spend every waking hour with it, when he does he has been known to spend a couple hours per sitting practicing the drawing.  Once I got him past the idea that the first one had to be perfect, and that practicing over and over again was what made you a good illustrator, he took to it very well.	2002-09-17
US	37005087	R9M4FMIIPJTFY	0671753819	896219190	The Last Picture Show	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A realistic view of the fifties	America thinks of the fifties as one big malt shop, complete with it's own Fonzie, and a non-stop stream of only the most popular rock and roll hits piped in through the very air.  Enter this book, which shows an alternate view that might be more accurate.  <br />This was the world of a small town in Texas at that time.  Instead of World War II, which unified the country, the military conflict at the time was in Korea, where nobody could figure out what it was all about.  The \\"official\\" entertainment of the town consisted of a one-pool-table bar, and the title movie theatre.  Even this is on it's last legs, which could be considered a metaphor for the whole town.  <br />Now McMurtry loves to write stories that give no quarter and pretty much leave you with the feeling that life is not worth living.  This one is no different, with nobody overcoming huge obstacles to win the big one, or even the little one.  Yet I've read this book several times, and it burns an impression in me about this time period that all the episodes of \\"Happy Days\\" cannot.  I even imagine that the time occurred in black and white, which is what they shot the movie version in. <br />So we get our cast of characters that are immortal, at least in my mind.  The horny teenagers with slim pickings to keep them from inbreeding.  The coach who has more homosexual tendancies than the English teacher he drives out by falsely accusing him of the same thing.  The coach's wife who picks up on one of the horny teachers because her pickings seem to be also slim.  The local cad who gets not only the seemingly only good-looking girl in town (slim pickings again), but her mother.  In fact, there seem to be so few people in the town that you wonder if everyone isn't the others' cousin.<br />If reading this so far makes you think I'm putting all this down, I'm not.  This is great reading by an author who just knows how to whip together a good story.  If you'd like to try McMurtry, and find his thousand-page epicsoverwhelming, this would be a great one to begin with.	2002-09-12
US	37005087	RUEW38X14DCW9	0375411798	715003990	Me Times Three	Books	4	0	0	N	N	TV's "Sex and the City" in novel form	Here we have a woman who is everything the Taliban would hate: educated, independent, sexually liberated, and having a problem with her fiance wanting more than one marriage partner.  This is the story of how this woman handles the discovery that the man she has dated since high school is engaged to two other women.  If this isn't a \\"Sex and the City\\" episode, it should be.  <br />I say this because the heroine is in exactly the same environment as the ladies of that show.  While New York City is certainly big enough to hold lots of stories, but this one has a career and love life just like those women.  I will also state that this is not a bad thing, as the story is an amusing read about life in a city I have never visited, and possibly never will.  <br />I enjoyed it very much.  You get to see every thought that goes through her head as she finds she's being dumped.  Yes, there is the self-pity, but you also see a cattiness that she thinks, but not says, to one of the gorgeous other fiances as they meet.  And how she picks over the ex's WASP family that she only tolerated during the engagement is wonderful in it's unfairness.<br />The bad parts are some predictability with the plot.  You can guess what happens to her gay male soul-mate.  You can also predict the outcome when the ex- gets together for \\"one more try\\".  And while she thumbs her nose at just about everybody who has more money than she does, she also looks down on just about anybody who is not as \\"cultured\\" (New York City style) as she is.  I consider myself well-read and have seen a lot of plays, etc., but I'd probably not make the cut with her because I'm just not up on my foie gras or the right wines to order.<br />But this should not deter the reader from giving it a try.	2002-09-11
US	37005087	R3EB01Z5RO82YH	0316073016	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful atmosphere	I like &quot;Easy&quot; Rawlins because the character is so politically incorrect.  He smokes a lot, has violent tendencies, and has carnal thoughts about women of all ages that couldn't be broadcast in the evening news.  He has committed crimes in his life, and even as he tries to settle down into a &quot;normal&quot; life, things just happen around him that make him tiptoe on the line that crosses into questionable behavior.<br />I've read several books in the series, and was surprised that he is only 44 in this one, especially after all he has experienced in his life.  But it's his words, and not mine that say someone in his environment reaching that age is indeed aged beyond his years.  <br />His past (and our need for another good story), however, do not let him go on as he would like to.  His friend, the violent Mouse is dead, but that doesn't keep thoughts about him almost constantly reoccuring.  And when past acquaintences ask him to find their son, it takes him back into worlds he hoped would no longer be part of his life.  <br />The year is now 1964, and Easy is seeing the beginnings of the Civil Rights movement.  He is of the belief that hard work and living honestly SHOULD get you equal treatment, and therefore is not really a part of this movement.  But he sees once again that maybe there is a need to speed things up.  Once again he is taken in for questioning by the police, and sees that those Civil Rights tend to wait outside of an interrogation room.  <br />And it's this feeling that I like about the Rawlins novels.  To live with the main character of a story, and realize that every single day, you have to play by different rules when dealing with the establishment.  It is something that I, for the most part, do not have to contend with, but does make me appreciate that there is definately one more way of looking at the world.	2002-09-04
US	37005087	R1RZR1PUFAZWR3	0316073016	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful atmosphere	I like &quot;Easy&quot; Rawlins because the character is so politically incorrect.  He smokes a lot, has violent tendencies, and has carnal thoughts about women of all ages that couldn't be broadcast in the evening news.  He has committed crimes in his life, and even as he tries to settle down into a &quot;normal&quot; life, things just happen around him that make him tiptoe on the line that crosses into questionable behavior.<br />I've read several books in the series, and was surprised that he is only 44 in this one, especially after all he has experienced in his life.  But it's his words, and not mine that say someone in his environment reaching that age is indeed aged beyond his years.  <br />His past (and our need for another good story), however, do not let him go on as he would like to.  His friend, the violent Mouse is dead, but that doesn't keep thoughts about him almost constantly reoccuring.  And when past acquaintences ask him to find their son, it takes him back into worlds he hoped would no longer be part of his life.  <br />The year is now 1964, and Easy is seeing the beginnings of the Civil Rights movement.  He is of the belief that hard work and living honestly SHOULD get you equal treatment, and therefore is not really a part of this movement.  But he sees once again that maybe there is a need to speed things up.  Once again he is taken in for questioning by the police, and sees that those Civil Rights tend to wait outside of an interrogation room.  <br />And it's this feeling that I like about the Rawlins novels.  To live with the main character of a story, and realize that every single day, you have to play by different rules when dealing with the establishment.  It is something that I, for the most part, do not have to contend with, but does make me appreciate that there is definately one more way of looking at the world.	2002-09-04
US	37005087	R2L2TCS7TVU8O3	0385506198	869666762	The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Pretty fair evaluation from a left-leaning writer	You can tell that Klein is left-leaning the way he describes \\"New Democrats\\" as people who at least like the idea of fiscal responsibility.  If he were conservative, he would have trashed all of this ideology as so much bull.  However, had he done this, the criticisms of Bill Clinton would have come accross as partisan sour grapes.  The fact that he was as open to Clinton's presidency as he was makes the criticisms, in my mind, much more meaningful. <br />Klein does give Clinton good marks in several areas.  First, his intellect, which allows the man to bring an understanding of many issues to the presidency that few office-holders before him.  Certainly more than the current president.  Second, no one can complain that the man didn't come to work everyday with his sleaves rolled up, ready to put in long days, also unlike the extended \\"working vacations\\" of the current administration.  Finally, if he were a stereotypical liberal he would have used the wealth of the 90's to fund a myriad of new federal programs that would have had a tough time sustaining themselves these days.  Instead, he did pay off a lot of government's bills, which I find admireable. <br />So much for the good parts.  When Klein comes down hard, he comes down really hard, and not just on Willie.  Hillary gets her share of venom for totally blowing any chance of her precious health care program by making it far too complicated and not accepting any modifications of it.  And whatever dislike he may hold for Clinton, Newt Gingrich is many levels below that for his petty politics and hypocrisy that partially resulted in his own destruction.  <br />And then there's the man himself. Klein comes down hard, as he should on several ideosyncracies of the administration. Clinton's sloppiness, in consistantly being late for meetings, and letting meetings about smaller matters go on far too long really slowed down the administration.  The fact that he took so long to get his staff together, and then didn't really makeup what he wanted resulted in it taking forever to get things going.  To it's credit, the current administration does not seem to have this problem.  <br />He also comes down hard on the the appearance of impropriety.  From hanging around with sleazy characters because they provided funding, to pardoning sleazy characters because they provided funding, Clinton made people around him understandably associate this sleaziness with the administration.  For this, he can't be forgiven. <br />And then there's the way he handled the whole Lewinsky matter.  Now the Republicans and the media also should have their share of blame for letting this get to the prominence it did, but the bulk of the responsibility lies on the shoulders of Clinton himself.  By insisting for months that nothing happened, he forced his staff to take the same stand publicly.  When he finally did admit to the affair, this made all these people around him look like fools.  And the way he twisted around what the meanings of the word \\"sex\\" and \\"is\\" were just cemented what the general populace feels about politicians and lawyers.<br />In general, the theme of the administration seems to be one huge missed opportunity.  While I do credit them with not \\"blowing it\\" when it came to the good economic times, it was also the time to start getting a better handle on such runaway issues as AIDS, Social Security, and yes, even health care.  Unfortunately, 9/11 has lowered the priority of these issues.  Clinton's biggest sin was to let general disorganization and the blowup of petty issues prevent him from achieving any decent level of greatness.	2002-09-02
US	37005087	R1FL3EQSLKLHQA	0399147888	551427604	Under Fire	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Covers the politics of marines more than the action	For those looking for a lot of battlefield action, they may be disappointed in this book.  However, I liked it a lot because it covers the details of a war that gets a lot less coverage in media form than WWI, WW2, Vietnam, and the Gulf mess. <br />The Korean War cost a lot of American lives.  This was the time when my own father served in the military, yet I foolishly never got the details on what the conflict at the time was all about.  This book tells exactly how we became involved in what was to be the first post WW2 conflict against the Commies, but wouldn't be the last.  <br />It tells of a time when Americans were full of swagger after the victories of WW2.  The country had a John Wayne mentality about handling things, and Wayne in fact is a very minor character in the book.  However, it does tell that we were not as prepared for this war as we should have been, and that people were willing to fight just as hard for Commie ideology as we were for Mom and Apple Pie.  Thus, an extended conflict that didn't accomplish much, in that we didn't learn our lesson and sent another 50,000 or so Americans to their death in Vietnam not many years later.<br />The story also covers the formation of CIA, and how their goals do not always jive with that of the military.  We get some views into the mindset of Harry Truman, and even more into Douglas McCarther, who the author seems to hold in high esteem.  While there is not a lot of military action, for those that want a good dose of history that isn't covered a lot, this one is very satisfactory.	2002-08-26
US	37005087	R1X9ITRBUG952R	0060008725	906069744	Tishomingo Blues	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Leonard takes us to new worlds	OK, the novel is short, and ok, it's about one group of lowlifes trying to outdo another group of lowlifes.  Both of these situations are common to an Elmore Leonard novel, so to make it fresh, he has to at least take us to a different situation.  He does is well here.<br />First, we get a taste of the carnival circuit, as our hero (Dennis) is a performer who high dives into a small tank of water.  We get to see the world of the fast buck artist a bit, as Dennis has to negotiate with these folks to book his gigs.  <br />Next, we get a look at the so-called \\"Dixie Mafia\\".  It was just in the newspapers about how gambling in Mississippi is becoming big time.  The wonderful folks in the D.M. make their living with \\"side attractions\\" to the customers of these places, which include drugs and prostitution.  They are no less vicious then their neighbors up north.<br />Finally, we get to see the world of Civil War re-eanactment.  Apparantly, many people take this very seriously.  And even those who use it as an excuse to get \\"likkered\\" up and blow off some steam take us into a world I was not familiar with, and found very interesting.  <br />With all this wrapped around the story of Dennis seeing something he wasn't supposed to, and how even the \\"legitimate\\" lawmen have their own way of handling the situation make this another winner from the author.  Just wish the stories were a little longer.	2002-08-07
US	37005087	R2R86G91E8MDIT	0060085630	549394888	Stick	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Late in getting to the big score, but still great reading	Usually in a Elmore Leonard book, we get to know what the caper is going to be rather early in the book.  In \\"Stick\\", it doesn't come until very late in the book, and is so unimportant to the overall story it's almost a throw-in.  But that doesn't matter, as just following the adventures of the title character is worth reading on it's own.<br />\\"Stick\\" tells the part of the life of it's main character, Earnest Stickley, right after being released from prison.  Yes, he does witness a murder, and yes, people are after him for it, and yes, he does eventually get involved in a big score at the end, and yes, even this has a surprise twist.  But it's what happens in between all this that I like.  <br />You would think that seven years of hard time would make anyone sick of a life of crime.  You would think he would avoid anything that would send him back to a life that he admits is a constant struggle for survival.  But, as in his other books, a con is a con is a con.  It's amusing that Stick doesn't even seem to conceive of the idea of a completely straight life, even though that's what he's declaring. <br />Sure, he gets a job as a chauffer, but it's just something to hold him as he scopes out other jobs.  He claims to be coming to Florida to see his daughter, but it's quite a while into the story before he actually gets around to going to see her.  Checking out the local crime scene is just a higher priority, yet you don't dislike the guy.<br />While this life is not for me, it does provide great escapism into a world where I can be part of it, but not have to pay the price.	2002-07-31
US	37005087	R2R2PV3WNGE8QU	0553572423	328007521	The Fist of God	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Superb historical novel	After reading \\"The Day of the Jackal\\" for the first time in over 25 years, I decided to read \\"The Fist of God\\" for the third time to see how the two stacked up.  Both are superb pieces of work, but I think I'm going to give a slight edge to \\"Fist\\".  Not that comparisons need to be made.  <br />The novel covers the period from the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, and ends about when the ground troops invaded the country to take it back.  In between it tells a story to try and explain why Saddam Hussein just let the forces come in and do this.  He could have temporarily backed out, and re-invaded at a later time, when momentum to build more forces would not have been as high.  Was this just a bad military move, or did he have something extra up his sleeve? <br />Whether or not this secret is true or not is not important, although it would not be unbelievable if true.  What makes it a great novel is all the places it takes us during this period.  This was a big event that happened not too long ago, that still has world-wide ramifications to this day.  <br />Yes, we see the historical figures such as George Bush Sr., Margaret Thatcher, Norman Schwartzkopf, and yes, Hussein.  But except for Hussein, these are minor characters.  It is the ordinary characters, most of whom are very interesting that make it great reading.  <br />Although there are many characters, the main one would be Mike Martin, who is most instrumental in pulling off the plot.  He is a British soldier of Arabic ancestry who begins the war going to Kuwait to be an almost one-man underground resistance movement.  When a mole is discovered in Hussein's inner circle that wants to sell the good guys information, Martin is transferred to Baghdad to get this information.  He has his share of tense moments as his contribution to the war effort.  <br />We are also taken into the world of Saddam Hussein, although we have to imagine a good part of it comes from the author's mind.  Let's face it.  They don't exactly have\\"People\\" magazine there, so information like this is extremely tight.  But we do get to meet his generals, his cabinet, and his torturers.  The tactics used to not only get information from people, but to keep the population itself properly scared out of it's mind are done in detail graphic enough to convince me that we indeed are the good guys.  <br />And, like all good spy novels, we do get to see that it's a very dirty business, and often the good guys get their hands just as dirty as the bad ones when it comes to the tricks of the trade.  It is historical fact that if the CIA had played fair with one of great designers of big guns in the world, he would have never gone to work for the bad guys.  And there is also a subplot involving the loss of at least one innocent life, done by the \\"good guys\\", that makes you respect \\"our side\\" a lot less.  <br />Like I said, I just read it for the third time.  I will no doubt read it again some day.	2002-07-30
US	37005087	R1EXW51WD6I3MK	0553266306	999720718	The Day of the Jackal	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Holds up well over the years	It's been a lot of years since I read this book.  I was curious to see how it would hold up in today's world.  After all Charles de Gaulle is long dead, and most of the characters in the movie have World War II as their biggest memory.  No computers are part of the plot.  And this was before the James Bond gimmickry.  How could it possible stand up?<br />Well, it did.  If writers and moviemakers today could get it through their heads that a tight, suspensful plot is much better entertainment than any gimmick, we'd have a lot more books as good as this one.  Of course, the biggest challenge to the book is that we know in advance that the plot is going to fail.  This, of course, is the story of a plot to kill French president de Gaulle in the early sixties by hiring an anonymous assassin to do it.  Why even bother reading a book when we know in reality that de Gaulle died a natural death, and we even know that the killer will fail in the story?<br />The secret is to give you the intricate details of who, what, when, where, why, and how.  Without getting boring.  The book starts by giving some historical background about why some French citizens think their country would be in better shape if their president were murdered.  You see the problems of hiring the correct person to do the job, when these people aren't exactly in the Yellow Pages.  You see the man chosen, and get to follow as the assassin puts together the tools to do his job.  And that's all in Part 1.<br />After all of this, you would wonder what's left, but Part 2 is just as interesting.  Through a garbled confession of a captured \\"revolutionary\\", they deduce that indeed, someone has been hired to kill the president of France.  Problem is, there is absolutely no name or description of this person.  How the killer is tracked is almost as interesting as killer putting together his tools.<br />But I'll reveal they don't catch him in Part 2, because then, how would we have Part 3?  This is where the police by now knows what he looks like, and even exactly when and where the assassination is going to take place.  The killer also knows the police know.  Yet the plot moves swiftly and ingeniously, and gets so close to completion you almost applaud the killer.  This is a top notch story that should be read by anybody that likes suspense thrillers.  In any era.y now knows what he looks like, and even exactly when and where the assassination is going to take place.  The killer also knows the police know.  Yet the plot moves swiftly and ingeniously, and gets so close to completion you almost applaud the killer.  This is a top notch story that should be read by anybody that likes suspense thrillers.  In any era.	2002-07-16
US	37005087	R32O0WOVF5SZT6	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	2	53	74	N	N	The "Why can't we all just get along?" version of Islam	This is a tough one to review.  After reading the book, you want to believe that there are forces in the Muslim world that want peace for all.  But then you read other accounts from other authors on how much bad has been perpetrated on the world from this form of thinking.  And then you read the newspapers everyday.  And you have to wonder how such a belief that claims to be peaceful has so many of it's members willing to apply terrible carnage to anyone who doesn't believe along their lines.  <br />The book's purpose is to show that there is a theoretical good side to Islam, that, if practiced, would result in that world of harmony we all would like to have.  And when it does reference the writings that believe in this, as well as those that practice it, it stays on the mark.  It is true that there is a certain percentage of the Islamic world that abhors the killing of innocent people in the name of God.  This part of the book succeeds very well.  If one wants to learn about the good things the religion preaches, then this is a very good book.  <br />However, it fails in two very important ways.  While stating that it is showing the good parts of Islamic teaching, it is whitewashing the issue by making the reader think that everything there is for peace and love.  To have a balanced presentation, a work like this HAS to show the writings that are, at best, misinterpreted.  At worst, some of these writings also seem to flat-out state that anyone who is not a believer is an infidel.  It's like reporting what a wonderful producer of cotton the United States was before the Civil War without stating that it took forced bondage of human beings to bring this about. <br />The second part is more unfair.  The book claims to use as it's cornerstone the core teachings of the faith.  But then it delves into the personal live of it's founder, and makes you think he's just one swell guy who only wanted the best for the world.  If you are going to present personal traits that aregood, let's also present the traits that make him a monster in the eyes of many.  <br />Western/Judeo/Christian history is filled with many bad marks.  Some as recently as proppiing up a terribly corrupt Shah of Iran government.  And this side does things on a regular basis that one can see would bug the hell out of the other side.  But this is now, and for the most part, the West is a LOT more tolerent and respectful of how people want to lead their lives.  To write a book like this, which essentially says that this is what Islam is REALLY supposed to be, and that we should give them a chance to progress THEIR way is like telling people that the Easter Bunny will bring you eggs if you just be good and believe in him.	2002-07-11
US	37005087	RTX159PDEMBYV	0140072187	527630151	Chickenhawk	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Increases Your Understanding of Vietnam as a Whole	This is a book written by a very brave man.  Not because he flew over 1,000 missions during the Vietnam war.  Not because he could have bought the farm on any one of those missions.  Not because he almost did buy the farm on some of those missions.  No, this guy is extremely brave because he wrote about all the prostitutes he banged while overseas, and then had to face his wife about the matter.  That is bravery. <br />Just a joke there, but I was looking for a new way to look at it.  Besides, based on the author's narrative style, I think he wouldn't have a problem with it.  This is a book that covers the true account of a helicopter pilot's tour of duty during the war.  It begins with how he learned how to fly, joined the army, was shipped overseas, and did his tour of duty.  And yes, he banged a lot of girls along the way.  <br />What makes the book so good is how it gives a no-holds-barred look at the life of a soldier during the war.  While it covers the serious topics, which I'll get to below, it also covers the everyday lives of those there.  We get to see that going without a shower for months was par for the course.  We see how many minor regulations (and some major ones) tend to get overlooked when you're dealing with people who might not be alive next week.  And we get to see that when there are now ladies around to cavort with, one has to resort to self-pleasure, risking the ridicule of one's companions who are probably doing the same things themselves.  It's these attempts not to sugar-coat that add realism to the story.<br />But on the serious side, it also covers many of the dark issues that surround the whole experience.  You experience the gradual realization that, despite seemingly successful missions, the \\"good guys\\" don't seem to be winning.  You see the love/hate relationship with the local people, who are caught in the middle of something they didn't choose, but also could be part of the enemy.  Also covered during the conflict are \\"friendly fire\\", atrocities committed on both sides, and the fact that no protection for the crew was available to those unfortunate enough to drop Agent Orange on the jungles. <br />And then there is coming home.  One of the darkest periods of American behavior was the hostility conveyed to soldiers returning home.  I read about it in the fictional \\"The Lords of Discipline\\", but this time we see the astonishment of the soldiers who are glad to get home, only to see that they are regarded as murderers.  <br />Finally, there is the personal adjustment of the author.  While most of that is covered in the sequel to this book, we see that it was a very rough time for many years for the author.  There are the nightmares, sleeplessness, and bad nerves that go on for years and years, eventually resulting in his being permanently grounded, and for the most part, deprived of his livlihood.  While one can see on his web page that he seems to have eventually worked it out, one has to think that without his wife, appropriately named Patience, that he would have long ago been dead.  <br />I am eager to further explore the life of Robert Mason based on this book.	2002-07-09
US	37005087	R1ELQVBGR8LEIO	042513525X	565346155	Hideaway	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Wish he would have done more with the plot	This is a story that starts out great, has a few inspired moments, and then ends very disappointingly with too few questions answered.  The idea is very good.  A man (Hatch) is brought back from the dead after drowning in icy water.  This has been done in real life after a limited amounts of \\"dead\\" minutes, but the novel has the main character \\"dead\\" for eighty minutes before revival happens.  Apparantly, based on the rules of the book, when one is gone that long, one comes back with certain powers.  One of these is the ability to see what other people in the same situation can see.  <br />What makes this even juicier is that the person Hatch seems to share this ability with is a flat out nutcase serial killer.  Koontz does very well here to try and create a person about as evil as modern mass publishing will let him.  The bad guy, Vassago, wants to kill the right combination of people to somehow allow him to get back into hell, which he apparantly liked before also being revived.  While torturing and killing a virgin or two (as well as some non-virgins) pretty much pushes the envelope as to what the publishers will tolerate, we should probably be thankful Vassago doesn't get to carry out what he REALLY wants to progress to.<br />All this sets up well, as we get the obligatory scenes where Hatch starts discovering his powers.  We also see Vassago already established, and Koontz does a good job of teasing us by giving Vassago's background little by little.  But I wish he would have given us more on the details of these powers. <br />First, Vassago seems to also have some other powers besides being able to see through Hatch.  One of these is night vision, and there is a hint of increased physical strength and speed.  I would have liked to know more about these powers, and see them used more.  <br />I also realize that we are dealing with a killer whose oars are not entirely in the water, so any logic Vassago has can be chalked up to that fact.  But in my book, if he wants to go back to Hell, he seems to be certainly qualified based on his \\"first\\" life.  If not, one murder would probably ice it, but he seems to need this elaborate chain of them, culminating in one really nasty one to insure his goal.  But I guess you can't have a novel about a serial killer unless you get a good example of the \\"serial\\" part.  This is not bad, mind you, but I found too many holes in the motive. <br />All that I could live with better if it weren't for the ending.  I find it too quick, too simple, too \\"we've seen it before\\".  Without revealing it, I was just disappointed that after this big mental buildup between the two, there could have been some, let's say, \\"quality\\" time between them.  Time to match wits face to face, and using the powers both of them have.  But all of this does not come to pass.  <br />Ann Rice may overdo it in explaining the rules to her worlds, but as least we do know the rules.  I would have liked to have seen more of them explained in this work.	2002-07-02
US	37005087	R3U1QN8DX7S1TW	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	3	5	8	N	N	More of a long editorial than a real book	If you are looking directly for the answer to the title question, you will need to skip to the conclusion at the end for what is basically a decent narrative.  The author comes to the same conclusions that I have read in more than a dozen articles and editorials.  Which is, with the dominence of church-run states using it's resources to keep down women and dissenters, and the reliance on one industry, the countries of the Middle East have dug themselves into a hole.  Faced with teeming poverty in their countries due to gross-mismanagement, the rulers blame outside influences like the United States and Jews as the cause of their problems, where they have only themselves to blame.<br />The fact that I agree with these statements doesn't make this a great work.  It does clearly explain all of the above in it's conclusion, but it is nothing original.  Faced with trying to get it published as a book, they slapped on a VERY brief history of the Middle East to fill in some pages.  This, too, can be found in many other sources.<br />I liked it as reinforcement of things I pretty much already knew and believed, but there aren't that many readers uninformed enough that this would be a learning experience.  The author should have tried harder.	2002-06-19
US	37005087	RXBCI6D17ZAD5	0385308485	689073601	Out Of Sight	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great book - dumb reviewer	That dumb reviewer would be me.  The last two books I have read have been Elmore Leonard novels:  \\"Touch\\" and \\"Out of Sight\\".  Though I am an avid film buff, and was vaguely aware of the movies of the same name, this college-educated would-be writer never put, literally, two and two together to link these books until I finished this one and read of few of the Amazon reviews.  Two movies are going to be rented tomorrow, and I will look into ways to get my IQ increased.  What makes me an even bigger [idiot] is that I read both of these books a few years ago, and was giving them a \\"refresher\\" reading before writing the reviews.<br />So without seeing the movie, I will say that I liked the book very much.  Just like \\"Touch\\", it's a short novel that almost makes me think I'm not reading a full book.  But unlike \\"Touch\\", which I think could have gone on a lot longer, this one pretty much ends where it should.  It tells the story of a bank robber who escapes jail.  While doing so, a U.S. Marshall gets taken hostage, and the two wind up riding together in the trunk of a car as part of the getaway.  I should mention that the Marshall is a very attractive young female wearing a designer outfit while stuffed in the car with the escapee. <br />Now being a Leonard novel, you have to throw convention out the window.  The \\"hero\\" is a career criminal, who would have to kill as part of his job if necessary.  He has also just whacked a prison guard with a two-by-four after betraying the participants of another breakout to make his own getaway.  So he's not really the kind of guy you bring home to dad if you are a woman.  <br />But wait, it's still a Leonard novel.  The Marshall has ironically already been involved with a bank robber in her life, and is impressed how the robber acts like a gentleman during her ordeal.  After she gets away, she finds herself strangely drawn to the man, a fact that is noticed by her father, himself a former lawman.   <br />So of course these two have tosomehow get together again, or we wouldn't have a story.  Since we know this will happen, there is no suspense there.  But how both feel about it before this happens makes the novel special.  As he is escaping a thirty year sentence, with more to follow if caught, and she is sworn to uphold the law, they can't possibly make it together.  Or can they?<br />See you at the video store.	2002-06-12
US	37005087	RQWR472BRBJCM	0688175724	987818971	Touch (Elmore Leonard Library)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A quick but good read	The only problem I have with this book is that it's too short.  Perhaps where it ends is the right point, because it makes you think for yourself what actually happened, and what whould happen to the main characters after the incident.  But take it as a compliment that I wanted to read more about these characters.<br />The story is about a stigmatic who may also have healing powers.  One of the good points of the book is that they explain the phenomenon of those who have stigmata.  For those uninitiated, this is the condition where humans periodically experience the wounds suffered by Christ at his crucifixtion.  They actually get holes in their hands and bleed.  This has been documented enough to prove it does indeed exist.  Whether it is due to an extreme power of self-suggestion or an actual miracle I will leave to the reader.  <br />Ditto with the healing power.  The main character seemingly has this, and Leonard teases us by not showing any healing until the end, and that is even written to make us wonder.  It does, however, have the actual stigmata occur, and when it does, it is powerful writing by the author.  <br />Of course, being a Leonard novel, you have to surround him with a cast of con men and hucksters that see how they can benefit from this.  What is tantalizing is that we never really know if the central character is good or just another con man.  We think he's good, and we want to believe he's good, but Leonard just leaves little hints to make us wonder ourselves.  <br />I'll also not reveal if he's a good man or not, and for that matter, I might be wrong myself.  I highly recommend you read it and make your own decision.	2002-06-10
US	37005087	R2VME7UWWTCFY5	0671537466	339013638	Streets of Laredo	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Worthy Sequel to Lonesome Dove	This is my second favorite of the four \\"Lonesome Dove\\" tales.  I liked \\"Commanche Moon\\" almost as much, with \\"Dead Man's Walk\\" trailing the pack because it went a little too overboard with believeability.  As there is a gap between \\"Dove\\" and this, there is in theory another possibility for another saga, but let's not hold our breath on that one.<br />This one shows the last great adventure of Woodrow Call.  We see how the man has aged, and how he is realizing he has aged.  But there is still a lot of fire in him, and more important, a sense of duty that has been driving him all his life.  Even though one can argue that he should have hung up his guns long ago, he shows the determination, as well as the ability, to focus on a task until it is completed.  Even in this book, where he's often outnumbered, he plods on to get the job done.  That's what heroes are made of, folks.<br />You know there's going to be a lot of gore in a McMurtry western, and for those fans of it, you get a lot here.  For there is not only one, but two different serial killers in the story, and both are as bad as bad can be.  In fact, with McMurtry's propensity for characters who torture as sport, it will be hard for him to come up with one worse than Mox Mox, who burns children for fun.  Be warned in advance if this is not your cup of tea.<br />We also get to hear what happened to the survivors of \\"Lonesome Dove\\", and when \\"Streets of Laredo\\" is done, you will see what happens to the ones that survive this one.  Of course I won't reveal this, but if you've gotta know this stuff, you've got to read this book.	2002-05-30
US	37005087	R839X1IQO01IX	0671020641	99455039	Comanche Moon (Lonesome Dove Story, Book 2)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Could have been a lot worse	How many books, where this is is the fourth in a series, retain this much quality?  Especially for books that are this long (over 700 pages).  After reading the first three, I had been hoping for a book in the series that showed Gus and Call in their prime.  While it does have a few themes that I wish Larry McMurtry would not dwell on so much, I was very satisfied with the novel.<br />The first negative I have is McMurtry's obsession with torture.  I'm currently reading a non-fiction book called \\"Trail of Tears\\", which tells of the fall of the Cherokee nation.  \\"Trail of Tears\\" does indeed confirm that violence and torture were indeed big parts of Indian society.  And they probably had their share of sadists to took what was common sport to them, and stretched it to extremes.  It's just that McMurtry has used this theme a lot of times before, and I wish he had gone in another direction.  <br />And it's not the huge amount of death that takes place here as much as it points to the futility of life that McMurtry portrays.  For all the adventure of \\"Lonesome Dove\\", we find out in \\"Streets of Laredo\\" that the whole cattle operation turns out to be a bust.  And in \\"Streets of Laredo\\", for all that Call did to protect people in his life, it's later years were spent in virtual poverty.  I would have liked to have seen at least once in the series where they do something great that gets proper historical recognition.<br />That aside, even though the book is 700 pages, one realizes while reading it that once it's done, there will probably be no more Gus and Call.  Yes, I've read of the historical innacuracies, and how the timelines of the book are not quite in sync.  I'll leave these worries to the pickier of the readers, and concentrate on the chemistry between the characters.  McMurtry captured lightening in a bottle when he wrote \\"Lonesome Dove\\", and we readers can be greatful he took it to the lengths he did.  <br />In this novel, we get to see how the characters from \\"Lonesome Dove\\" got to where they were at the start of \\"Dove\\".  While the coordination of the stories should have been tighter, it did take a lot of work to tell a story where you basically know who's going to live or die while making it interesting.  We get to know where Pea, Deets, and Spoon fit in the mix from the beginning.  For this I thank Mr. McMutry, and which there were someway to fit in a fifth story.  As this will probably not happen, read this one slowly to enjoy it.  <br />I put this one a close third in the series.  Of course, \\"Lonesome Dove\\" is first, but I really liked how he portrayed Call as an old man in \\"Streets of Laredo\\"  I would put this one right behind \\"Street\\", with \\"Dead Men Walking\\" taking a distance fourth.    <br />I would have liked to have seen at least once in the series	2002-05-28
US	37005087	R23TOYR0TEWQ6S	0553271369	409895538	The Lords of Discipline	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A Story That Stays With You	I usually go through at least a book a week, and many of these pass through memory very quickly.  This one stuck around for a long time.  Pat Conroy's semi-autobiographical novel about his years spent at a military academy works on a lot of levels. <br /> First, we get to see what it takes to get through four years of this kind of life.  It's a very tough four years, with no guarantees, and no hope of any decent financial reward.  Odds are you may be killed on your job if there is a big enough war.  Yet the distinction of serving one's country is big enough incentive to make the program tough to get into. <br />Also, we get to see the transformation of boys to men with the characters.  When we are first introduced to them, they are young high school graduates who are introduced very quickly into the high disciplined world.  How they have to adapt to this to survive is the heart of the novel.<br />We also get a feel for Southern society at this time, which is yet another world.  Finally, as this happened during the Vietnam War, we get to see how all the reward some of them get for their troubles was to be ridiculed by \\"civilians\\".  <br />While the military got their undies in a bundle for some of their methodologies being exposed, they should instead be proud of the book.  It makes one appreciate our men in uniform much more.	2002-05-23
US	37005087	RTWQQ2BXL34C1	0684853906	213230457	Terms of Endearment: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One Of McMurtry's Best	I'm a big fan of Larry McMurtry, and am amazed at the amount of quality material he has cranked out over the years.  Be it with his \\"Lonesome Dove\\" series, or his more contemporary novels such as this one, there always seems to be parts of the story that make one despair about life in general.  There is usually death of some kind.  While many authors will write something 'redeeming' about a death, McMurtry will tend to show the stark fact that life goes on, and often a death is indeed a big waste.  Cruel as it sounds, it is probably more real than we'd like to admit, and for that, I like his work. <br />While this novel doesn't contain the wholesale slaughter of his westerns, there is enough pain to carry the story in his manner described above.  What makes the book great is how he takes a pair of characters who are not that pleasant a couple, and makes us really care for them.  Aurora, the widowed mother, is an overweight, overbearing woman who constantly cajoles those close to her.  Her daughter Emma, also overweight and seemingly without focus in life, is not exactly someone you're gonna turn the TV on to see.  One is tempted to close the book early on and look for more uplifting characters, but McMurtry hooks you, first with comedy, then tragedy.  <br />I was surprised to see how much I grew to like Aurora by the end of the book, and have sympathy for Emma. There is a method to Aurora's rudeness.  For example, being a widow, she has a handful of male suitors.  At first I was wondering what all these older guys saw in her, as elderly guys, by sheer numbers, would have the pick of much more numerous older ladies.  We see how she keeps them at arm's length, and as the book goes on, we see how they fit into their lives.  When several of the suitors often wind up in the same room without too much bloodshed, we see that the method does work.  Aurora has a role for each of them, and understands that most of them would not be able to keep up with her.<br />Same with Emma.  If I were to meet this person at just about any part of her life, I probably would have little interest.  But we do see the needs of this person.  Yes, she probably made a big mistake with her choice of husband.  But we see how she does want affection from a man who doesn't seem to have much to give, and thus turns back to her mother.  While they both keep each other at arm's length, we can see the bond that holds them together until the end.  <br />Terrific book, and and excellent translation to the screen.	2002-05-22
US	37005087	R2PJ1DID5U6Q1B	0679403922	788319158	The Cold Six Thousand	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fascinating in spite of irritating writing style.	I admire trying writing styles that are a bit different, but this one goes out of bounds way too much.  This is a novel about a world that is corrupt as corrupt can be, and deserves a tough-talking narration.  This one goes way overboard by expressing it's thoughts via a method of stringing five or six short sentences together, each with just a few words.  It's as if each passage is a crime scene that has to be reopened and reinvestigated from every angle, or reinforced by using other adjective to describe the same thing.  This type of narration goes on the entire length of this long novel.  While it is trying to come off as tough-talking, it just appears as cute. <br />Aside from that, though, hold onto your hat, because you are being taken on a ride through hell in this book.  Except that the hell is our own world of the 1960's.  It begins roughly with the JFK assasination, and ends with RFK's demise several years later.  <br />Between these two events we get to see a world where everyone is so thoroghly corrupt you feel you need a breath of fresh air after awhile.  From government to law enforcement to entertainment to crime, everybody involved is so cold and jaundiced you wonder if any of them ever had childhoods. <br />Unfortunately, though, that's ok, because it probably does come close to the feeling of what it's like to deal with people when all the chips are on the political card table.  There is no room for the squeamish here, and it reaffirms the healthy skepticism we hold when a public figure tells us something.  <br />If only the author would tell it in a slightly different way.	2002-05-17
US	37005087	R2JGPBA6KYNLDC	0446525804	472682750	Last Man Standing	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Starts ordinary, but gets better and better.	Pity the poor FBI.  They almost never get any positive press.  Either it's the so-called true mess that the bureau has been in ever since J. Edgar Hoover, to the disdain shown for it in fiction such as &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; and &quot;Hannibal&quot;.  Everybody seems to have it in for these guys.<br />Thus is starts in &quot;Last Man Standing&quot;.  We have the story of an FBI agent who is the only survivor of the massacre of his Hostage Rescue Team.  There is big initial suspicion about him from the FBI, which at worse thinks he's part of the murders, and at best an incompetent who is responsible for getting people killed.  The portrayal of the bureau as less than a great organization continues here, as well as what starts to be a routine novel about someone needing to clear himself of false charges.<br />But it gets better, both as a more original story, and in it's treatment of the FBI.  First of all, the hero, Web London, doesn't exactly know what happened to him, and this doesn't help his case.  But as he eventually proves he's not to blame, his employers eventually become a bit more sympathetic.<br />Part of what makes the novel interesting is the &quot;treatment&quot; he receives from a psychiatrist, a woman named Claire Daniels.  That she not only helps find out what happened during the massacre, but also gets into some problems going back to boyhood make it more than the usual crime novel.<br />I also like that they could have wound up the novel many pages before it does, but keeps it going, and keeps you guessing long after you think everything is wrapped up.  Getting every last piece of information is worth the wait of reading the entire book.	2002-05-17
US	37005087	R282KMGKR7PHYQ	189322435X	228259683	Hughes: The Private Diaries, Memos and Letters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This would make a terrific movie	There has been a lot of writing about Howard Hughes.  A lot of it was based on incomplete or just flat out false information, going back even to when he was living with the Clifford Irving hoax.  If we are to believe the author of this book had access to thousands of never before available documents, and he's telling what he found factually, this would be the definitive Hughes biography to date.  That he makes it a fat, juicy biography makes it great reading.<br />So I would nominate George Clooney to take this role to the big screen.  There are remarkable similarities in their looks, and the public would just eat up this tale.  Here we have a man who was lucky enough to inherit a big fortune early in life.  But he didn't just sit on his money.  He re-invested a lot of it into other industries, such as movies and airplanes.  His resources greatly advanced the art of aviation in it's time, and his movie marketing greatly enhanced Jane Russell's breasts in their time.  He was a hands-on, get involved manager who flew test planes himself, setting many speed records.<br />This dashing lifestyle also made him the darling of Hollywood.  His string of glamorous conquests was a who's who of movie actresses, from budding starlets to major icons.  He literally had the world in his hand for awhile.<br />Alas, something happens to people when they gain so much power that there are very few people or institutions that can tell them \\"No\\".  We've seen this in the last 100 years with characters such as Hitler, J. Edgar Hoover, Elvis, and Michael Jackson.   They get a few successes, and think they are infallable.  This leads to bad decisions in life that either deteriorate them, or leave a mess for those that surround them.  They also withdraw, always mentally, sometimes physically, from the world around them, as if they were surrounding the wagons to protect them from that world.  <br />This also happened to Howard Hughes.  We see early signs of where he's going when he was merelya ruthless young business man.  The first thing he did upon inheriting part of a company was to immediately buy out all the other inheritors to give him total control.  Holidays such as Thanksgiving and Christmas mean nothing to him, and he calls upon his associates to work on these days to get more done.  Marriage had it's uses, but none of them ever involved love. <br />So we get to see one side, which is this dashing young millionaire who becomes America's first billionaire.  We see him as he lands at crowded airports after setting yet another air speed record.  We see him with every hot babe on the silver screen, and a lot more hoping to get there.  America even liked him thumbing his nose at the government when he felt they were digging into his private life too much.  This would all have to be portrayed.  <br />But we would need a director like Martin Scorsese to turn this into a \\"Raging Bull\\" type of hell.  Yes, he had the women, but the feedback from them seemed to indicate a very selfish lover who often couldn't produce where it counts.  Yes, he directed several films, but was such a control freak that the products went way over budget.  And the volumes of instructions he wrote to his staff on how to guard against germs, real or imaginary, show a very disturbed mind.  <br />And the movie would have to show how this increasingly lonely man deteriorated in his last ten-fifteen years of life.  While it is true, as suspected, that his paid caretakers took advantage of his situation, and in fact sped up his demise, it is also surprising how much of his faculties remained in his later years.  While he was well on his way to looking like the Walking Death he eventually became, he still had the ability to conduct a two-hour press conference to convince the world that the Irving biography was a hoax.  <br />But the ultimate ending would have to show that all the money in the world cannot buy happiness.  For the last several years of his life, he was surrounded onlyby people who were paid to be there.  His hair, beard, and nails grew to extreme lengths.  While obsessed with germs, he ended up living in putrid squallor, with jars of his own wastes stored everywhere.  His body was stoked up with enough drugs to kill an average person, and he even had the remnants of five broken needs inside his arms.  <br />This could be Oscar time for both Clooney and Scorsese if Hollywood lets them do it right.	2002-05-08
US	37005087	RNS5V5HHTGIWK	0345389247	484612515	Crazy in Alabama	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Interesting, but why 2 stories?	This book presents two different stories that are related only because the woman leading one of the stories is the mother of the boy leading the other.  While both are interesting, you would think that the parties would eventually come together for some monumental accomplishment that both have worked together for.  But this doesn't really happen, and it makes me wonder what the author's intent was in structuring it this way.  <br />The main story deals with a woman who kills her husband, leaves the rest of her family, and sets off on a cross-country odyssey.   Oh yes, her husband's head is in a tupperware container as part of her luggage.  We are informed by the woman that this was her way of ending an abusive relationship.  However, as we get to know the nature of the woman, whether this is true or not is subject to debate.  Her conversations with the head should steer you in the right direction on this.   But her adventures, which include a guest role on &quot;The Beverly Hillbillies&quot;, are entertaining enough to make this a great attempt at dark comedy.<br />The other story concerns her son, who is left behind while mom &quot;finds herself&quot;.  He gets involved right in the middle of the 1960's Civil Rights movement after a racist encounter at a local swimming pool explodes into a national incident.  While his story is not nearly as far-fetched as the other, is is the more moving of the two, and could have been a book in itself if the author gave it a chance.    <br />Which is the problem.  You've got a dark comedy and a serious drama intertwining.  I give the author a big thumbs up for reinforcing the true character of the mother with his ending, but once again, these are two different stories, and belong in two different books.<br />Read it anyway.	2002-05-07
US	37005087	R2D3S64LK29E10	0446675784	244288960	Parable of the Talents (Earthseed)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Switch U.S. with Middle East and you've got something	I can see why a black female author can have it in for the white, right, Christian fundamentalist movement.  This movement doesn't seem to have the patience for those that don't fit it with their white bread view of the United States.  It doesn't help their cause when they hint that Aids and the 9/11 tragedy are punishment from God.  <br />However, while she gets to release something she's holding in by describing what our country would be if they took over, it's definately fiction.  First, there are too many educated, somewhat spoiled Americans who have tasted the good life this country offers, and don't find the more plain lifestyle these folks want as very attractive.  Also, we're proving time after time that our country is too strong, with too much left-wing balance to ever crumble and resort to these people to run our country.  <br />Now take out the U.S. and plug in the Middle East, and you've got a more accurate novel.  The type of government she describes in her book gets to assume power when there is so much turmoil in the country that the people will turn to the strongest power for stability.  It also helps to control the media.  It won't happen in the U.S., where too many people have Internet access, but for a country like Afganistan, which has been bombed into the Stone Age, and never made it back beyond the Middle Ages, this becomes a lot easier.<br />So let's not build up Jerry Falwell as being more powerful than he is.  On the other hand, the abuses fostered upon the citizens in this story are frighteningly close to what the Taliban inflicted upon their country just a few short months ago.  This is the only beef I have in what otherwise is a very fine novel.<br />As you've determined, the novel takes place in the not so distant future of the U.S., which has gone through enough turmoil that they've looked to an extremely right-wing government.  The story is narrated by three different people:  a man, woman, and their child.  We get to hear their viewpoints on the world they try to build, how it is taken away from them, and how they reassemble their lives. <br />It's debateable who is the main character (mother or daughter?), but I'd lean slightly towards the daughter.  We are introduced to her early in her adult life, speaking of her parents, and not always glowingly.  You see, part of the tragedy is that they were separated early in her life.<br />Most of her knowledge of her mother is from the mother's writings.  The mother started a kind of nature/religious movement, had somewhat of a following, and was known by a lot of people by these writings.  So while you get the daughter in present tense describing what happened in her own past, you here the mother's writings as the parent's life happened.  This structure works very well, and you get more and more into the characters as the story progresses.  <br />I liked the story very much, and it looks like this tale is headed for another version.  It'll be interesting where the author takes it from there, but I'll look forward to it when it comes.	2002-04-30
US	37005087	R38C3AIEDU0B0C	0679454497	645550608	Blood and Gold (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Flame on!	I've got to get this out of my system.  I've read quite of few of the Vampire Chronicles ever since &quot;Interview...&quot;.  I like all of them, including this one.  But if I have to read another story of male vampires gushing over each other like teenagers on their first prom I'm gonna puke.  At least in this one Marius switch-hits and gets to also gush over a couple of females.  It's too bad the author set the rules that vampires can't get it on. So it seems all they can do is gush.  And frankly, it gets tiresome even with male to female after awhile, what with all talk and no action.  With male to male gushing I will admit it really sets off a homophobic streak in me, but maybe that's how people act in the artsy community that Ms. Rice no doubt hangs with.  <br />There.  Now I feel better.  I liked this story from both a historical perspective, as well as a fleshing out of the main story.  Marius, for those that follow, is the Rodney Dangerfield of vampires.   It is his job to guard Akasha and Enkil, the original vampires, for 2,000 years.  We know from previous novels that Marius does not get one word from the happy couple, but as soon as young whippersnapper Lestat comes along, Akasha gets the gushing going, and Marius is left with no respect.  This story lets us know more about what happened during those 2,000 years. I liked the technique of bringing up events we already know with adding more details.<br />It also gives a good idea of what things were like during these times, at least in the eyes of Ann Rice.  We get a lot of glimpses of early Christianity.  We learn how the religion really didn't take off for a couple hundred years after Christ, and then it took a Roman emperor to bring it to the big time.  From my other readings, this is absolutely true.  She also continues this throughout the double millenia, and it held my interest throughout.<br />I hope she continues the Vampire Chronicles.  Just turn off the faucet a little on the gush.	2002-04-23
US	37005087	RYHTQ49MJXMZW	0688160964	249213514	Freaky Deaky	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Well done book with contemporary tricky subject matter	Since most of Elmore Leonard's characters are crooks, they should be for the most part, unlikeable.  On the other hand, with the choice of someone to like being almost exclusively crooks, one has to look for someone well, as least not as bad as the other characters.  In this story of former sixties bombers who plan a blackmail plot, this is hard, especially after 9/11.<br />Before 9/11, it would be easy to root for the blackmailers, because the people they are trying to blackmail are much worse.  The marks are hard-core criminals hiding behind social prominence, and one is a rapist.  So it should be easy to root for the blackmailers who were double-crossed and sent to prison.  <br />However, after 9/11, we have to look at what they went to jail for, which is bombing.  Bombing is a terrorist act, whether done by Islamic fundamentalists, or 1960's radicals looking to end the Vietnam war.  In either case, it puts fear into ordinary people, and often kills innocents.  So if you are rooting for these folks, keep in mind what they are.  <br />However, there is a reason to give a high rating for the book.  It is easy to say that it's just another Leonard novel.  But in my eyes, he has set the standard so high, even his \\"ordinary\\" work is very good.  This is an \\"ordinary\\" Leonard novel.	2002-04-16
US	37005087	R1MYNHDJ1T99SA	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Required reading	Whether we think of the people that live in the Middle East as friends or enemies (or both), it's pretty certain there's an awful lot we don't know, and therefore, don't understand where they're coming from.  While this doesn't excuse a lot of behavior, at least knowing their rationalization will help prevent blind prejudice from taking over.  This book does a lot to help reach that goal. <br />Of course, the core of Middle East behavior is Islam.  While religion is important in cultures all over the world, there is probably not another land mass of this size on earth where it so totally dominates every facet of the everyday lives of those that live there.  This work goes through great lengths to explain how it was formed, and how it has evolved.  Much time is spent to try and explain what the original intentions of the faith were, and how it is interpreted today.    <br />I would have preferred more time being spent on the 20th century but to be fair, the title does say 2,000 years, and true to this, it does give all those 2,000 years a real workout.   We see how relentless cruelty and oppression dominate much of these years, but it is important to note that Western culture was just as barbaric (i.e. the Crusades).  We also get to see the influences East and West had upon each other, and how Islam, Christianity, and Judaism interacted.<br />The author ends with a somewhat positive note, showing how progress in rights had been at least a bit achieved in the last hundred years.  Unfortunately, the book was finished before the Taliban emerged, which might have altered the his conclusions.  What he needs to do next is start a new project, begin with the start of the twentieth century, and produce as lengthy a work on just this period.  That would be great reading.	2002-04-11
US	37005087	R3IZKOXVU8F6TT	0060008776	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good plot with social commentary	I've read a good handful of Elmore Leonard books, and liked just about all of them.  While it doesn't necessarily make it a better novel, in how many sources have you read about the situation in Rwanda, where half a million people have been massacred, and thousands are now sitting in jail awaiting trial for these crimes?  If this had happened in a Caucasian country, it would have absorbed our lives for generations.<br />This is the background for this novel.  A priest (or is he a priest), in Rwanda is completing a five-year stint in a mssion here.  He doesn't have much to do in his church because it's filled with massacred bodies that he is forbidden to remove.  When he hears another massacre is looming, he takes action into his own hands before returning to the U.S.<br />It's here where the story brings in all of your standard Leonard characters, and a very good plot that ties back into Rwanda.  Terri works on a plan to get some money for these poor people.  But is it by legal means?  Is he going to get the money?  And most important, is he going to use the money for what he says he's going to?<br />These questions linger throughout the novel, and we really don't know which direction it's going to take until the end.  The characters we meet in Detroit range from the priest's relatives, who are pretty sure something crooked is going on to flat-out cold-blooded killers, which includes some of the &quot;good guys&quot;.  The fact that nobody in this story seems to be completely clean is one of the reasons it's such good reading.	2002-04-08
US	37005087	R1GCZKV1O4U039	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Held my interest throughout	I was torn on whether to read this book or not.  Yes, the geisha do have a mysterious aura of sexuality around them that I'd like to know about.  On the other hand, did I want to invest a lot of time learning about a peculiar form of culture from a foreign country that has probably seen it's peak?  OK, the sex part won out, and I'm glad it did.<br />First of all, it's amazing that a white male from Tennessee could write such a believable tale.  I hear he specialized in Japanese studies and went to Harvard, so I'm going to give it the benefit of the doubt that the culture these people lived in was more or less accurate.  But even if it is, the story would not have worked if the author had not created characters that you really want to know more about.  That he does this with a handful of them makes it a surprisingly interesting book.  <br />As for what drew me into the book in the first place, one does learn about how the Japanese of this time treated sexuality.  You learn from the book that the geisha were not prostitutes as we know them, but they were not innocent by any means.  Commercial sex was available through regular channels, as we learn when the herioine and her sister are chosen for different paths in their lives. <br />The geisha represented attaining a certain status in Japanese society, although this practice would seem silly when viewed by an outsider.  As a father of four, with no time for such dalliances, it's very amusing to see how the top pillars of Japanese society, many with wives and families, would spend so much time and money trying to make an impression upon the geisha.  I guess men are men everywhere, and will go through great lengths and expense to get the right look from the right lady.  The Japanese just made an art out of it.<br />By the way, sex with a geisha, while infrequent, was possible.  It's just that it's gonna cost you an arm and a leg.  The few experiences our heroine has are described as tastefully as something like this is going to, but it also makes it clear that this woman probably never had a positive experience here in her lifetime.  Sad, but it's part of what makes this an excellent book.	2002-03-26
US	37005087	R3E7HGLJQNAI1	0060932201	359674409	Hitler's Niece: A Novel	Books	2	3	11	N	N	Treading dangerous ground	I like historical novels in general, but this one was a turnoff.  Enough is known about the evils of Hitler that I don't think we really need to have speculation made on his sexual proclivities.  Yes, the guy is a nominee for Creep of All Time, but I don't believe that portraying him as a neurotic, cowardly pervert accomplishes anything.  Let him be reviled in history for the terrible things he was responsible for.  But let's not create a legend, good or bad, about the man.  This, in my opinion, is as bad as those that write about the Holocaust never existing.<br />The two stars it gets are for the carefully researched historical background, and the origins and endings of his chief henchmen.  But this stuff can also be found in a lot of other books.	2002-03-26
US	37005087	R24F0YM7L9FOZR	0060959614	330344806	Destined to Witness: Growing Up Black in Nazi Germany	Books	3	81	101	N	N	Good but not enough	If this book had been subtitled \\"Going to Africa to Find the Father Who Abandoned Me\\", I probably would not have read the book.  No, I eagerly picked up a book subtitled \\"Growing Up Black in Nazi Germany\\" to see a unique perspective on a topic that continues to fascinate the world.  When it sticks to the title subject, it's well done.  But unfortunately, this part of the book ends too quickly, and too much time is spent on the Africa part.  So be warned that you are a victim of marketing if you are expecting the book to be totally on the title subject.<br />I will go even further and say that too much time is spent on the time after the war, but before he goes to Africa.  Yes, times are hard for everyone, but by this time, the terrible racial laws that destroyed so many lives are pretty much gone, and it's everybody for themselves.  While this is somewhat interesting, once again, it's not exactly what we were expecting when we started reading.<br />Which leaves us to what we DID want to read the book for.  The author does do a good job here of describing not only major incidents based on one of the most terrible times in humanity, but details of small things that adversely affected peoples' lives.  We are amused at first that the young boy WANTS to be a Nazi Youth, but then, put most of us in the same position, and we would have probably gone for it.  But this all crashes when he finds that, by law, he cannot join soley because of what he was born as.  It was also heartbreaking when he could not represent his country as a boxer for the same reason.  <br />All in all, it's amazing that he did slip through the net.  I would imagine that the lack of his black father and the presence of only his very German mother probably contributed to this, so maybe the father leaving saved his life....  So while lucky may not be the appropriate term, somebody was watching over him. <br />They ask people if reviews are helpful to them here, yet I notice that less than five-star reviews seem to somehow be less \\"helpful\\" than glowing reviews.  So while one is tempted to just sugar-coat everything, this forum is supposed to let people know what a product contains.  In this case, I'm saying that one third of the book is very good, another third is pretty good, and the final third has nothing to do with the title.  I hope this proves helpful.	2002-03-26
US	37005087	R3B106SYQBVQUF	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	3	11	N	N	Surprised to see it rated so low	Seems a lot of people don't think this one is that good, but I liked it a lot.  Unlike long Stephen King novels, which drag on for me, with Clancy novels, they can be as long as he wants them to be.  In my opinion, he needs the space to set the story for something as elaborate as World War III. <br />This one had a lot more sexual references than previous Clancy novels I've read, and sometimes I wondered if we really need to know the ancient leaders of China get their stone-age stones off, but there can be no denying that spies in history have used seduction to gain access to secrets.  I kept imagining the seduced Chinese woman as the \\"Honey\\" character that follows Duke around in the \\"Doonesbury\\" comic strip, but if they ever make a movie out of it, I'm sure someone much more beautiful would be cast.  <br />One thing I like about this series of books is that it attempts to show the everyday lives of people who wield the most power in the world.  We see these people in the news all the time, but what are their daily routines like?  While fiction, it's probably still as close as we are going going to get to seeing how these people live.<br />Without revealing too much, a small problem I had was the relative ease with which our government succeeds in it's part of the big conflict.  I realize we recently cut through Afganistan fairly easily, but even in this case, there is still a lot of mopping up to do.  With the World War portrayed in this book, the foes go way up in class, and while it's nice to root for the good guys (us), it all seems to me it was a little too neat and quick.  <br />However, in my eyes, keep these books coming.	2002-03-21
US	37005087	R2HP95GF6M1G03	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Truth is stranger than fiction	By the most amazing of coincidences, I was in the middle of this book on September 11, 2001.  After so far reading that a plane had crashed into the Pentagon, and that there was a Middle Eastern conspiracy to spread disease througout America, was I reading the most timely book in the world, or what?<br />I liked this book very much.  I just gave Stephen King's \\"Black House\\" a negative review because it was a long novel that didn't go very far very fast.  This is a very long novel, and it held me the whole way.  <br />Primarily, there's the basic story of the plot to attack America.  As we all know, crashing a plane into a public building is not as far-fetched as one would have thought.  And neither is the idea of spreading disease as a terrorist act.  Yes, the good guys eventually win, at a price, and how our country goes about it is riveting.  <br />Then there's the issue of handling the Muslim religion.  Yes, the rules of the religion are in total contrast to how many of their followers interpret it.  Yes, many of the faith \\"officially\\" decree that these tactics are terrible.  But is there any other religion in the world that has so many leaders sanction the violence that is happening in the world?  A recent poll indicates that a large part of the Muslim world approves of the way things are being done.  This book explores this world very well.<br />Finally, there is a more human part of the story that's interesting.  What would you do if you were suddenly, and totally unexpectedly made President of the United States?  This is the role laid on Jack Ryan, and the everyday life changes he has to undergo while handling the crisis really flesh out the book.  It's very revealing that the most powerful man in the world has many of his freedoms taken away, and is very possibly spied upon twenty-four hours a day by the people in charge of keeping our country secure.  <br />I've yet to read a bad Tom Clancy novel.	2002-03-13
US	37005087	R1X89IPOG7LUCE	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More of the same -- and that's good	This one picks up shortly after the end of the first book, and continues on the same vein.  Our heroine is still tallying all the previous day's good deeds, bad indulgences, and justifying how all of this falls into her master plan.  I'm not positive, but I don't think she makes it to the gym once in the sequel.<br />But Bridget does find a way to lose lots of pounds during the book.  While on a trip overseas, she is falsely imprisoned for several weeks, and is forced on the diet she can't discipline herself to do on her own.  Upon her release, she's proud of her weight, and is determined to keep it off.  Can she do it?  Well, can she at least keep it off until the holiday season?  <br />If I were a real journalist, I'd dig more into the timeline of when this book was written, and when the movie was being made.  As those who have seen the movie know, Colin Firth played Mark Darcy.  Well, the actual Colin Firth is a character in this sequel, and Bridget's interview with him is as hilarious as you can imagine.  Now, which came first, the making of the movie or the writing of the second book?  Did one influence the other, or is it coincidence?  Actually, I'm not staying awake nights not knowing this, but the question occasionally pops up in my mind.  <br />Anyway, good stuff.	2002-03-12
US	37005087	R1IWYCKAXX4YOP	031286874X	610120864	The Bishop and the Beggar Girl of St. Germain (A Father Blackie Ryan Mystery)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	First Greeley Novel Hits the Spot	I've been wanting to read his stuff for years, but for some reason I'm only getting around to it now.  Before the book, I only knew of him as the priest who wrote sexy novels.  Being Catholic, I'm surprised I didn't jump on this sooner, but good things come to those that wait. <br />I think the guy's writing is great!  No preaching.  Just an everyday guy who's profession just happens to be a priest.  Definately opinionated, and covers all kinds of topics dealing with the church, from large-scale issues to petty quarrels with various members of the hierarchy.<br />As for the sexy parts, he does address them in a mature, readable fashion.  I was once told by a priest that there is a saying that \\"the more you know, the more you can get away with\\".   You get from this book that if two committed people in love want to start banging a little early, nobody's feathers are going to get too ruffled.  He also hints that yes, he finds ladies attractive, and will do regular solo work to try and make the awesome pressure of celibacy a bit easier to bear.  Whether this jives with church thinking or this is one renegade priest shooting his pen off, I'm not sure.  But he does have a new hooked fan.<br />Oh yes, the book itself.  It deals with one of his regular characters being sent to France to investigate the disappearance of a popular TV priest.  It's a pretty short book, but so are Elmore Leonard novels, and I have no problem with them.  He picks up the title beggar girl to be his translator, but since he speaks French already, it's probably more because she's cute.  Here the story goes through standard investigation scenes, but I will admit the ending does take an unusual plot twist. How much it would have been able to be pulled off in real life is debateable, but it did make for great reading.	2002-03-12
US	37005087	R2YWHW7TBDLW1H	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent portrait of a very flawed person	Literature is filled with &quot;anti-heroes&quot;.  Main characters who have flaws, or anti-establishment leanings that sometimes adds to their likeability, sometimes not.  But these character traits are usually window-dressing to more fill out a character that is doing SOMETHING ELSE to further the plot. <br />This book is wonderful in that the whole purpose of the book is to not only mention the flaws, and highlight the flaws, but make them endearing, and the whole purpose of the story.  For all of us who have ever made an excuse not to go to the gym, or why we haven't given up a particular vice (fill in yours here), or can't put an itenerary together to save one's life, here is our how-to-do-it manual, written by the expert.  <br />Yes, the movie does have a chick-book story of which guy will she get, or will she get one at all.  We see how the workplace is such a contributor to one's social life.  And how one's family competes with work as a stabilizing factor.  <br />But this is all just ordinary plot to hang on what the book is all about.  Which is, her hilarious, carefully laid out plans for self improvement that never quite seem to get accomplilshed.  Even more hilarious is the fact that some of them never even get started.  The device to list weight, calories, drinks and cigarettes, then put them in perspective in her own mind are a riot.  I never knew a drinking binge could be so good for you!	2002-03-11
US	37005087	R2PVP7MGMEFZHW	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Get to the point	I am ashamed that in my first review, I admitted I didn't finish the book.  I felt so bad I went back to it, but unfortunately, I didn't change my mind much on it.  It's another overblown, overly long Stephen King novel that should just get to the point. I liked his stories that did this, like \\"Thinner\\" and \\"Christine\\", and I have no problem reading very long books. I just wished this one was more focused and to the point.	2002-03-06
US	37005087	R27XKS6S09G2X1	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Great Read Even If You Don't Follow Horses	I am very aware, but not exactly proud, of the fact that virtually all of my horseplay these days consists of watching numbers and then making wager involving more numbers based on the results of the first numbers.  Most of the time it's a result of what a computer has number crunched, or from what I've garnered from staring at toteboards while on the Internet. This routine almost never involves seeing, touching, or smelling a live horse. <br /> Which is why I was delighted when I came across the book \\"Seabiscuit An American Legend\\" by Laura Hillenbrand.  I was aware that there was a famous horse a long time ago named Seabiscuit, but that's about it.  Since the average age of today's race player is about 102 years old, many of you race fans should read the book to relive this period of time.  For the rest of us young punks that follow racing (by that I mean those over forty), it's a valuable history lesson.  If you don't follow racing at all, pick it up anyway. <br /> Yes, the book completely covers the life of the horse named Seabiscuit.  It traces the horses lineage, birthplace, entire career, and life after racing.  But it also presents a story that is much more than a collection of statistics.<br /> I \\"absorb\\" a lot of books, mostly by listening to unabridged recordings of them while at work.  Among them are a lot of mysteries.  In many of these I end up not really caring if the butler or transvestite senator did the killing.  What gets me to like a story is how it creates the world it visits, be it historical period, such as the Depression, or a particular profession, like say, horseracing.<br /> \\"Seabiscuit\\" does both very well, and intermixes both of them seamlessly.  With the Depression , it sets the tone for what peoples' lives were in those days.  While unemployment was the primary concern, it's the uncertainty of when good times, if ever, are going to return.  While \\"heroes\\" is a very overused term, it shows how this uncertainty leads to people to look for stories with good endings, and the participants of those good endings.  Replace the word \\"hero\\" with the one you deem appropriate for the characters of this story.<br /> On the other hand, maybe \\"hero\\" is not such a bad term here.  No, we're not talking about saving the world, only winning a few horse races.  And nobody put a gun to anybody's head to proceed on the path both horse and jockey followed (a great horse usually loves to run).  But both here made sacrifices, where a perfect lack of execution could have been fatal to either or both of them, to try and accomplish something that not only they, but millions of people considered important. <br /> It lets you know how racing was in the 1930's, and who were the players.  For example, Bing Crosby spent a fortune on racing.  He put a lot of money into his own stable, which the book states, sadly never produced personal financial reward for his efforts.  But he also had a lot to do with the building of Santa Anita and the establishment of the Santa Anita Handicap.   <br /> Besides the Depression, the book also gives a colorful look into the world of the owner, trainer, jockey, and horse.  It brings you into a world that somehow doesn't translate into the Daily Racing Form.  You can look at all the numbers you want, and logically conclude that your horse SHOULD be the choice.  But the form can't tell you that it was a lousy trip to a new track, or it got bit by a horsefly in the wrong place that morning, or the horse just plain doesn't like the new horse in the next stall.  This book brings you into that world.  <br /> Of the majors players listed above, it does paint an eye-opening picture of what a jockey has to go through to have any chance of success.  Like any other professional athlete, the odds are slim of making it big.  But the jockey has the added pressure of getting his/her weight down to unhealthy levels.  And with these low weight levels, enough strength and stamina have to be built up to not only maneuver a horse, but avoid serious injury every time they go to work.  Being a jockey is one of the most dangerous professions in the world.<br /> But, of course, the book centers around the life of one horse.  A horse that showed early promise, then bombed spectacularly and was given up on.  A horse that by sheer luck, crossed paths with exactly the right owner, then exactly the right trainer, then exactly the right jockey to make a spectacular comeback and capture that hero need in America we talked about earlier.  When life-threatening events seemingly put both horse and jockey out of the picture for good, they both regroup to give a shot at yet one more miracle. I'll leave it to your reading to find out what happened.	2002-02-26
US	37005087	RL0Z3LGCMBMRR	0609608738	121244280	Justice: Crimes, Trials, and Punishments	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Name-dropping Runs Amok	Ok, the first star is for doing a very good personal account of his daughter's murder.  It is probably the inspiration for the book, and my heart goes out to the man for what he had to endure after the murder.  Second star is for the general theme about how wealth and fame DO affect the legal process, when this is the country in which things like this aren't supposed to happen.  The third star is for you OJ junkies.  No matter how much you followed the trial, I guarantee you will be treated to dozens of juicy new facts, which I'm sure is what will generate the most sales.<br />On the bad side, the author seems to think it important that we know that he knows just about every celebrity ever to be featured in People magazine.  Sometimes this distracts from what is often very good story telling.  An example of this is during the OJ section, by far the largest portion of the book. Instead of just mentioning that he missed a court session due to attending Eva Gabor's funeral, or just a funeral, he has to give you a list of all the celebrities that attended, as well as the fact that there was a big portrait of Ms. Gabor over the casket. Very distracting.  <br />This might just be considered quirky except for and insight you get on the author himself as the book goes on.  You read how he cut gym classes as a student to go and read gossip columnists.  He also praises Dorothy Kilgallen as one of \\"the great New York gossip columnists\\".  For one that considers all of them somewhat seedy, it definately formed an opinion for me.  But what really turned me off was the introduction to the chapter on a famous DuPont family murder.  He starts it off by mentioning that someone of no importance whatsoever was found murdered in a Las Vegas motel.  I guess not being on anybody's social register determined their standing as a human being.  <br />Read it, but take a good shower afterwards.	2002-02-26
