US	37053389	R1B2MI6POT75B6	1569711224	563706359	Aliens: Hive  (2nd ed.) (Aliens Series , No 5)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Aliens Love Puppies!	NOTE: This Book is also entitled Harvest, confusing alot of people. Harvest has a few additions to it that allow it to be the re-release it is, but I'm still partial to the cover of this lovely baby. I'm reviewing Hive and it'll show up on both, so you know you have the right one when you get the picture of the alien with the dog. That said, to begin:<br /><br />All the Aliens Graphic Novels, distributed by Dark Horse, can be insulted if taken out-of-context and looked at on a one-on-one basis. Still, when thrown into a timeline and looked at as pieces telling the saga of a beast that is, in a sense, more terrifying than anything with Earthly comparisons, its a beautiful beast to behold. In stories like Labyrinth, for instance, you see what contact with Aliens can do to the human psyche and just how frail humans really are, and in additions by people like Mike Mignola you see the human side of the equation. In Hive you are thrust into a world where Aliens are understood to a point and where the item that allows them to become \\"Hive Mothers,\\" Royal Jelly, has become THE narcotic of choice. Accordingly, you have a perpetual goldrush with people willing to take a variety of chances just to have something that is worth vast amounts of money and that makes its user feel better than escapism has ever imagined being. Take that and add in see the ways that people try to get to that payload and you have Hive.<br /><br />As far as a creative complex, the art leaves something to be desired and there are slow place sin the story. Still, for some reason, I'm drawn to the notion of the Alien and this book made me alot happier than many of the others. Perhaps its because it not only adds in little scenarios of trying to raid a hive but comments on the Alien itself, trying to add an understanding of what the Alien is. Or maybe I just like watching people die because of their own stupidity when they mess with something beyond their wildest nightmares.<br /><br />If you want to check out the Graphic Novels, start with Earth Hive and start working outward. These have been going on for years and you'll find alot of stuff you like/ dislike, and some of the stories are fringe tales at best. Unlike others here I liked this story, however, and am giving it a four out of five because I liked what it did. I just wish the art would've given me a little more.o check out the Graphic Novels, start with Earth Hive and start working outward. These have been going on for years and you'll find alot of stuff you like/ dislike, and some of the stories are fringe tales at best. Unlike others here I liked this story, however, and am giving it a four out of five because I liked what it did. I just wish the art would've given me a little more.	2005-10-13
US	37053389	RWD5N9X56DNAG	0810949792	305415119	Graffiti World: Street Art from Five Continents	Books	5	21	27	N	Y	Beyond the SprayCan	I couldn't believe the reviews I read about said book and the book itself were the same work because, quite simply, I was stunned by the sheer amount of time/ talent that went into some of the displayed pieces herein. When I thing \\"graffiti\\" I used to think kids on the corner trying to make blocky letters to say \\"this is my world,\\" but books like this one have totally redefined the perception I harbor therein.<br /><br />Totally.<br /><br />Photo-realism, the evolution of stencils and the proclamations of people with messages and skill; it sleeps in picture after picture until the reader finds themself thinking on thing.<br /><br />Amazing.<br /><br />American Crews, European showings, \\"the rest of the world; there seems to be a universal song being sung in cans of paint and it sleeps in the 2000 + pictures here made by so many. 3A Crew, Binho, Dzine, Herbert, Siloette, Stayhigh, 123 Klan, blade, blef, Cheba, Dut, Jazi, KTo; each artist gets at least a page layout and there are oceans of names involved here.<br /><br />Check it out if you want to lose hours in observing something different and if you want that the stereotypical spraycan.	2005-09-06
US	37053389	R2YEF3QYMW4EYP	0155075055	847300719	Research Design Explained	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Comprehending Reasearch Design 101	So you want to learn how to set up a psychological inquiry but you don't exactly know how to go about it? Well, this book is pretty good at helping you along. It takes the time to walk you through the \\"do\\" and the \\"don't\\" that comes with gathering useful data, and it actually keeps a pace that isn't too slow and it isn't to fast, and it doesn't make drastic leaps and expect you to keep up. It actually starts a ground level, showcasing what is good and what isn't when it comes to research topics, and sets in motion a process that walks you through the objects an experiment should set out to achieve. This expands as the book focuses, and walks you through Set-Up Chapters 1-5), Simple Experiments (Chapter 6, Multiple-Group Experiments (Chapter 7), Factorial Designs (Chapter 8), Within-Subjects Designs (Chapter 9), how to read and evaluate your data, and how to pull it all together and write your research proposal/ reports.<br /><br />The book itself is very user friendly, and it takes a lot of the sting out of statistics. Too often a book is written from a point of view that reads like an archaic tome, and too often people are frightened by it and chased off by the thoughts dry literature attempts to express. That's why I like this book, because it takes ideas and boils them down to a simplistic form, allowing a person that really doesn't understand the subject to walk with the author as the experiments build. That isn't to say that all the processes are without fault, mind you, because a lot of experimentation leads to hitting brick walls and readjusting your trajectory so you can succeed. The book tries to teach you ways to keep from doing that, however, much like a driver's manual tries to show you the road before you hit the highway.<br /><br />If you're looking into the subject, its good stuff and would explain alot of the statistics you get hit with everyday. If you're looking at it as a student, it can teach you about generating concepts. Note that you should be using it should in collaboration with a statistics package (I'm currently using SPSS to gather my empirical data, but the program used isn't as important as having one so you can understand how factors actually \\"plug in\\") and the APA manual (5th edition, currently) if you're doing a project or simply want to know how to draft a proposal.<br /><br />Ah, the joys of scientific postulation.ld be using it should in collaboration with a statistics package (I'm currently using SPSS to gather my empirical data, but the program used isn't as important as having one so you can understand how factors actually \\"plug in\\") and the APA manual (5th edition, currently) if you're doing a project or simply want to know how to draft a proposal. <br />Ah, the joys of scientific postulation. <br />	2005-02-05
US	37053389	R3QDQ4RW681WAS	0375705465	13260323	The Genocides	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Gardening Bipedal Decay	When something dominates the landscape long enough, it falls into the intricate patterns that ultimately lead to its downfall. Complacency, the feeling of superiority and supreme authority, overpopulation and spreading the herd paper thin; these are all symptoms of that coming demise. It can be seen in every creature colonizing on any continent, from the largest of animals to the smallest insects. And nothing reflects that teetering on the brink of perpetual extinction more than mankind.<br />In The Genocides, this point is painstakingly brought to the surface, showcasing exactly how mankind would react to sweeping changes and how easily the proverbial \\"fall from grace\\" could be fashioned. First come the seeds of destruction in the shape of mysterious plants, growing at levels that astound even the most studious minds while being followed by the atypical reactions hinged on dismissal that one would expect from \\"civilized thinkers.\\" As the plants start claiming ground and choking out the human blight, the reaction remain as we would expect them to be, unwavering in their arrogance, and the people see themselves as dominate. They don't see this as an invasion because plants couldn't be invaders, after all, and they opt instead to fight it with poisons that seem to keep the problem in check and methods that keep it out of sight. Slowly, however, people come to realize that this is all a mirage and that extinction is looming just beyond that next horizon. And there, in a town painted to the backdrop of crumbling cities and mammoth greenery, Thomas Disch begins painting a vivid portrait of what humanity truly entails.<br />There were many elements of the story that sprang from those pages and that were captivating as I eagerly devoured page after page. I personally liked the way the characters sprang to life, their ideas and ideals mingling with their backgrounds, and I liked the way all sorts of normally-mundane items started marching back into lives that had forgotten them. Food, grueling efforts to keep portions of land, needs for medicine, the elements; these were all there and they were all there in kind. Little tastes that we'd become numb to began taking effect, with people dropping like so many flies as the going grew tougher and tougher, and Disch painted it well. And, out of that, he painted something that I liked even better.<br />One of the best things about Disch's work was that he wasn't trying to become a mouthpiece for the redeeming factors housed in mankind. He didn't gloss over the fact that brutality is a key component to survival when structure becomes disheveled, and he doesn't try to bore his readers with passion plays that encompass only a portion of that \\"light vs. dark\\" spectrum. Instead, he explores the way the individuals feel and how they manage to survive on both a mental and a physical plateau when the world falls apart. And sometimes this means doing little things to keep the past alive or finding someone to latch onto that you really don't care about. And sometimes it means doings deeds that are even worse, eternally answering not only the question of what people are willing to do to stay alive but also the question of where sausage will come from when pigs are gone but still savored in the deep spiciness of memory.<br />This is WELL worth working into your hectic reading lives.them. Food, grueling efforts to keep portions of land, needs for medicine, the elements; these were all there and they were all there in kind. Little tastes that we'd become numb to began taking effect, with people dropping like so many flies as the going grew tougher and tougher, and Disch painted it well. And, out of that, he painted something that I liked even better.<br />One of the best things about Disch's work was that he wasn't trying to become a mouthpiece for the redeeming factors housed in mankind. He didn't gloss over the fact that brutality is a key component to survival when structure becomes disheveled, and he doesn't try to bore his readers with passion plays that encompass only a portion of that \\"light vs. dark\\" spectrum. Instead, he explores the way the individuals feel and how they manage to survive on both a mental and a physical plateau when the world falls apart. And sometimes this means doing little things to keep the past alive or finding someone to latch onto that you really don't care about. And sometimes it means doings deeds that are even worse, eternally answering not only the question of what people are willing to do to stay alive but also the question of where sausage will come from when pigs are gone but still savored in the deep spiciness of memory.   <br />This is WELL worth working into your hectic reading lives.	2004-03-27
US	37053389	R1FY6IBM1YUTFZ	0812561627	471127539	Farscape: House of Cards	Books	5	6	7	N	N	You Can't Always OutCheat the Cheaters!	While testing his Farscape module, the astronaut John Crichton is shot through a wormhole and deposited in another part of the galaxy. While floating powerlessly in space soon thereafter, a freak accident finds him killing the brother of a Peacekeeper commander and running with a ship (a living ship) full of escaped Prisoners and one (thanks to him) Peacekeeper that can't go back to her ranks. Add in a person they've rescued along the way, some changes in the enemy but not in the \\"run away\\" premise, and you've worked your way up to the book.<br />Liantac is a gambler's paradise and one of the crown jewels in the middle of nowhere. According to Rygel, expert on all things fun, he's always wanted to go there and would have gone before except for a slight problem. There's been a little woe that wouldn't allow for travel to the planet with ships. After being sought after, told they'd be paid well for taking someone there, and reassured that biomechaniod ships function in its atmosphere, the crew agrees (some reluctantly) they can get supplies while planetside. Taking a deposed figurehead into a place like that can result in some problems, however, just like taking an Ex-Peacekeeper can drudge up some old problems. Yeah, its just like old times.<br />One thing I liked about this in light of the series and its departure is that this captured the Farscape feel rather well. Keitch R. A. DeCandido seems to know the series, and he certainly understands the motivations behind the characters. While reading along, he briefs you on the people therein much like the show would do, keeping them feeling like the series always does. He also knows his timeframe, too, and must have followed the series while working on this book. According to the author, it is set toward the end of season 2, between the episodes \\"Won't Get Fooled Again\\" and \\"The Locket.\\" Knowing that and watching a few DVDs from that timeframe helps plugs into it rather well.<br />If you're like me and you still miss Farscape, then this isn't a bad way to find a little more of your fix. Its not the dynamic of the television cast playing out with a nice budget and some special effects, but it really does feel like the shows from that time often felt. It even does one of the things that the shows are notorious for, adding in a little \\"Earth humor\\" into the Crichton equation and letting him interpret many of the things he's seeing for you. Coupled with a nice outing by the always-troublesome \\"Sparky,\\" a little Nebari moving, some Luxan added to the fray, and into sets the mood and the timeline really well.<br />To note, if you are new to Farscape then you need to watch the series up until the points mentioned and let it do the introduction for you. This is merely an installation in the saga and works well as an add-on to the DVD sets. While it could be understood without the background, picturing the faces and knowing their woes ahead of time lets this have more effect because the author does something I like, treating me like a viewer of Farscape and not a bumbling fool in need of constant reminders. Too many books do that when tied to a spin-off.Farscape, then this isn't a bad way to find a little more of your fix. Its not the dynamic of the television cast playing out with a nice budget and some special effects, but it really does feel like the shows from that time often felt. It even does one of the things that the shows are notorious for, adding in a little \\"Earth humor\\" into the Crichton equation and letting him interpret many of the things he's seeing for you. Coupled with a nice outing by the always-troublesome \\"Sparky,\\" a little Nebari moving, some Luxan added to the fray, and into sets the mood and the timeline really well.<br />To note, if you are new to Farscape then you need to watch the series up until the points mentioned and let it do the introduction for you. This is merely an installation in the saga and works well as an add-on to the DVD sets. While it could be understood without the background, picturing the faces and knowing their woes ahead of time lets this have more effect because the author does something I like, treating me like a viewer of Farscape and not a bumbling fool in need of constant reminders. Too many books do that when tied to a spin-off.	2003-12-19
US	37053389	R47R4RP8DFFM9	1591160480	972709803	Uzumaki, Volume 3 (Vol 3)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Never Trust a Town With Row Housing	Jungi Ito has taken lessons from some of the best creative minds in the horror business and has meshed them into his own formations, fashioning something that can be dreadfully fantastic when he puts his mind to it. His inks seem to drip imagery, capturing expressions in black-and-white frames that could be valued at well over the thousand word cliche. I say that because he seems to understand how pulp horror works and how images can be placed together to tell a story of woe, letting him take things to the point that I find myself picking up everything he releases. And he simply gets better with time. Flesh-Colored Horror, Tomie, and the newer Gyo series have all showcased his abilities to craft horror themes, manifesting oddities existing within the natural world and the unnatural and also showing how emotions - especially love - sometimes comes with curses of its own. That said, none of these truly does Ito justice like the three Uzumaki books have done.<br />Trying to compress and overview the themes running rampant in these books, Uzumaki is the tale of the town Kurozu-cho as it finds itself under the thumb of a mysterious curse. Here, spirals seem to appear and to bring madness with them, working through the population in a number of odd to just plain disturbing fashions. It began to manifest in the first book as obsession leading to bizarre happenings and then quickly polluted the town with weird manifestations that seemed to come slowly at first. Then, suddenly, it was like the town was under siege by the curse of spiral, leaving tragedy at every turn. Still, it all seemed to leave a question mark in the interactions at first.<br />Until the third book these things all seemed to be connected in only the main characters and to the town, with the events seemingly leading to something but the &quot;what&quot; in that still a mystery. In this installment, however, the answer to that mystery comes to fruition in a tale that is very much like those names that Ito claims as inspiration, reminding me of something that a Lovecraft might mesh words on. And that revelation, the lofty goal outdoing some easy script, is superb.<br />While I would add that there are a couple of tales within the book that didn't do that much for me, the end result of the stories all coming together and leaving no one unscathed was beautiful. Seeing that the town wasn't merely being touched by the hands of something that could be easily comprehended in one frame, that the hands of misfortune and fate were framing the groundwork for something stellar, illustrated why Jungi Ito is a creator that I've stuck with through all the pictures he's framed. I would get into it with more detail, too, but that might give away some portion of the prize. So, I'll instead say that I honestly couldn't wait to get my hands on this and am glad, in the most morbid of fashions, to see what has transpired. Because of this, I'll never trust a person that eats snails, that crafts clay pots, or that collects spirals again!claims as inspiration, reminding me of something that a Lovecraft might mesh words on. And that revelation, the lofty goal outdoing some easy script, is superb. <br />While I would add that there are a couple of tales within the book that didn't do that much for me, the end result of the stories all coming together and leaving no one unscathed was beautiful. Seeing that the town wasn't merely being touched by the hands of something that could be easily comprehended in one frame, that the hands of misfortune and fate were framing the groundwork for something stellar, illustrated why Jungi Ito is a creator that I've stuck with through all the pictures he's framed. I would get into it with more detail, too, but that might give away some portion of the prize. So, I'll instead say that I honestly couldn't wait to get my hands on this and am glad, in the most morbid of fashions, to see what has transpired. Because of this, I'll never trust a person that eats snails, that crafts clay pots, or that collects spirals again!	2003-11-30
US	37053389	R8Y6LRTWLFHIM	0451204123	161070434	The Association	Books	4	15	17	N	N	For &quot;Sale,&quot; and the Use of Other Four-Letter Words	Let's face it. Homeowner's Associations can be a tool dispensing a veritable fountain of useful dictations - provided that you want to follow them. They, the police policing policy, look through all the little things we do and they create bylaws to keep them from becoming too overwhelming. In some cases, that means that you wouldn't be allowed to have a basketball behind your house, keep a flagpole in your yard, or build that utility shed you wanted. In others, it could mean fines because you paint your house some strange color or because you put too many plants in your yard. And some, as Barry and Maureen Welch soon find out as they acquire a home in Bonita Vista - gated community in the middle of nowhere (the ultimate desire of the extremely wealthy to either live or vacation in) -, go farther, making life a miserable little game of limb loss and bully tactics.<br />What begins with an infraction for having a yard sale soon introduces the reader to a world that isn't such a nice place. Here, an Association lords over everything, hatching sinister plots while using a tome of laws they use like some kind of suburban bible. It is suspected of poisoning animals, of making people leaving int he middle of the night, and other rumors are spoken of about people always watching other people. This makes the residents therein all distrust one another, all thinking they're quite possibly spies for the Association. But why? What horror could possibly motivate people to think like that? Well, in answering that, you need to add in townsfolk living outside of the gated community that hate the residents therein for their own reasons, cats stuffed into mailboxes and tales of a man named Stumpy because of his lack of appendages, and monstrosities.<br />Now, I'm a fan of Little's work, having liked his creation of The Collection and The Walking, and I expected a lot out of him. Well, after absorbing this book and the way it all came together, I would have to say that I walked away a little disappointed but that I got a nice laugh out of the way this was set up. I liked the fact that there was an Association of Homeowners becoming the pivot in the master plan for terror, and I loved the fact that it laughed at the life hidden behind those tarnish-proof gates.<br />My problem here came because the ending seemed rushed, like the bizarre was approached too quickly for a build that took quite a bit of time only to ultimately disappoint. It was a shame, too, because it seemed as if the story were going to go somewhere for a while, with the characters meshing well and Little's writing style panning out. Unfortunately, some of the description began to drag and the book began to drone a little, making me long for something to punctuate it all. That said, I was still hooked, wanting to know how the Association was going to try to up its hand and if it had a garden where it grew baby stumpies.<br />And, in a way, this compulsive \\"knowing\\" disease I've somehow acquired, the one that makes me keep reading, gave me some mixed emotions.<br />If you want some of Little's better works, you could try The Walking (although the ending is a little anticlimactic)  or you could obtain The Collection first to see what you think on it. Personally, The Collection would be the choice I would recommend and I would say that you might want to work up to this piece, unless you can see the humor in the horror that an Association could provide.little disappointed but that I got a nice laugh out of the way this was set up. I liked the fact that there was an Association of Homeowners becoming the pivot in the master plan for terror, and I loved the fact that it laughed at the life hidden behind those tarnish-proof gates. <BR>My problem here came because the ending seemed rushed, like the bizarre was approached too quickly for a build that took quite a bit of time only to ultimately disappoint. It was a shame, too, because it seemed as if the story were going to go somewhere for a while, with the characters meshing well and Little's writing style panning out. Unfortunately, some of the description began to drag and the book began to drone a little, making me long for something to punctuate it all. That said, I was still hooked, wanting to know how the Association was going to try to up its hand and if it had a garden where it grew baby stumpies.<BR>And, in a way, this compulsive \\"knowing\\" disease I've somehow acquired, the one that makes me keep reading, gave me some mixed emotions.<br />If you want some of Little's better works, you could try The Walking (although the ending is a little anticlimactic)  or you could obtain The Collection first to see what you think on it. Personally, The Collection would be the choice I would recommend and I would say that you might want to work up to this piece, unless you can see the humor in the horror that an Association could provide.	2003-07-19
US	37053389	RNKQOT8K6Y2IK	1892950138	801164265	The Bighead : Author's Preferred Version	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Love Lessons With The BigHead	Urban legends come in all shapes and sizes and most, as we all well know, are based on an inkling of truth. It is, after all, the movement of information that produces misinformation, the passing down of tales that turns travesties into things that children scoff at before they journey off to sleep at night. The Easter Bunny, Santa Claus, they are all one and the same: myths based on fabrications and also on the real. So, when Jerrica and Chastity, visiting a small town in the middle of nowhere, hear the story of The Bighead, a man-beast that devours brains and ravages the living, they laugh as well, knowing that this cant be truth. Sometimes, however, it is that shred of understanding, that cognitive portion spun into something seemingly nightmarish, which is truly of the most fiendish variety.<br />In The Bighead, Edward Lee decides to pull out all the stops, trying to produce a tale about, amongst other things, a beastly creature that stalks the higher woods on a journey toward understanding and toward fulfillment. After the death of its grandfather/keeper, it has found itself aimless, directionless, killing in the most depraved fashions but, at the same time, empty. It wants to know what lies beyond, in the realms its grandfather told it to avoid, so it begins wandering. And thats when it hears the voice that keeps saying one thing to it. Come.<br />Herein, Edward produces a quality monstrosity, unleashing it on an unsuspecting world as it enjoys a variety of interactions that are amongst the most wretched types. Because of that, I was pleased. I was also pleased by some of the other characters as well, namely a priest that believes that profanity isnt a sin because it is communion and that also thinks that he sees and speaks with, and a few odds and ends that they inflict on others  in the most gruesome manners. After a time, however, many of the characters and the things that plagued their lives, the little bits that should have made them stand out, began to bore me. For instance, with Jerrica, the uncontrollable libido in human form, there was a constant reminder of what she liked and what she wanted to do, to the point that my mind began fanning through pages to get to the reason behind the story: The Bighead. Other people followed the same methods as well, especially a pair of rurally-challenged killers roaming the land and killing between moonshine runs, with the horrific beginning to wear down and no longer shock this audience. Instead, the comparison of the human monsters versus the mysterious beast began to make me sometimes wonder when the true beast would emerge.<br />That said, the ending of the book was interestingly odd and The Bighead and Charity, our human main character that seemed without purpose for most of the tale, began to play roles that were somewhat twisted. The Bigheads plight, that of being unsated in the realms of pleasure, found themselves manifesting ends and, despite the fact that many people died that had been worked on for so long without so much as a whimper, I found myself reading on and on. Why? Because there was a curve in the pitch and it hooked my gaze.<br />For anyone thinking of reading the book, I am of a mixed mind in recommending it. First, Ill have to say that some of the book is pretty disturbing, crafting a lexicon of deeds that would make many quiver while journeying forward. Second, I feel I have to note that there is a repetition of ideas, that the hammer must strike the nail more times than I could contend with, and that this may cause of page skimming. Third, the beast itself, it may not be everything you might want from a monster and, in the end, it may disappoint you. That said, there are a few reasons to read it, namely if you are an Edward Lee reader already, if you want something that is overly graphic and just keeps giving and giving, and because the ending is interesting. If you arent accustomed to the gore classification in books,perhaps you should begin somewhere else. If you are a new reader to Lee, you should also try another book on for size first, easing into the waters before going here. Otherwise, The Bighead might getcha!, perhaps you should begin somewhere else. If you are a new reader to Lee, you should also try another book on for size first, easing into the waters before going here. Otherwise, The Bighead might getcha!	2003-06-01
US	37053389	RZQSZSASMGDTO	1889186287	494407550	Quest for Sex, Truth & Reality	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Every Truth Has its Price	An author finds himself close to death and followed by a ghost that tells him to make her real. So, his quest for enlightenment, to find the becoming mentioned before his terminal illness catches him begins.  A town that is going mad, filled with horrific events that consume mind after mind, and a writer that thinks of himself as a seeker journeying through it. Along the way he hears a voice, a voice that tells him not to turn away but to seek out what is real. A man listening to a voice inside his head journeys into a seedy part of town, into a bar offering live shows, finding someone he once loved in the process and also finding that, in time, truth is relative and it all changes. Every truth has a price.<br />Three stories, one chapbook, and the label out-of-print on all this beasts previous release. That is what this work, by Edward Lee, comprises on its Quest For Sex, Truth, and Reality. It also entails something thats well written in its short, 35-page run, something that reflects upon its author while the main characters  all reflecting on bits of Edwards internal struggle  search for something more, and a more meaningful side of the gore writers persona. Personally, I find this time period in his writing life an interesting one, filled with reflections of what is going on in the authors mind after each tale told, letting you into the painters mindset as the scene was crafted. To me, that is an important keyhole to sometimes peek through because knowing the author, its knowing something behind-the-scenes.<br />For fans of Lees writing, this is something that youll want to definitely procure because the alternative to picking it up here is paying way too much for the out-of-print volumes of this, his first chapbook. Also, Pay Me, the third story in the book, is also listed as exclusive to the volume, so that makes it a nice find, too. Included herein is Goddess of a New Dark Age, The Seeker, and the before-mentioned piece, evening it out as something that is worth picking up. For anyone that has yet to check out Lee, you should bear in mind that he is a horror creator and incorporates the spilling of internal stimuli to get his message across. If this works for you and you want a tale coated in the renditional imagery of terror, then this is worth picking up.ore-mentioned piece, evening it out as something that is worth picking up. For anyone that has yet to check out Lee, you should bear in mind that he is a horror creator and incorporates the spilling of internal stimuli to get his message across. If this works for you and you want a tale coated in the renditional imagery of terror, then this is worth picking up.	2003-06-01
US	37053389	R2VZX20ZYMC0GR	078601430X	180638404	The Chosen	Books	2	4	6	N	N	When The Bad Gets Worse	Vera, restaurant manager at a successfully established facility, finds herself with many of the aspects a person expects from the perfect picture of what life should bring. She has a job she likes, people working under her that entertain her and that make her laugh, and she feels as if life is going somewhere for her. That, in and of itself, is more than most people can ever bargain for. More than that, however, she has something else going for her, that of the perfect love. Then, out of the blue, a chain of events happens, one that begins with an offer of a job that pays more money than she's ever dreamed and ends with her walking in on her lover with another woman and a -yeah, leaving her with all her dreams smashed and with prospects of the future lying open. In those, she finds herself accepting a position in an ex-sanitarium/now extravagant vacationing spot that local tales say is haunted and that is teeming with odd occurrences. Along for the ride are three of her friends/ co-workers as well, ones that she decides to staff this new position with, and before she knows it, they all find themselves in for more than the typical management position bargains for.<br />Within Edward Lee's books, there seems to be an underlying current telling one to always look a gift horse in the mouth - especially when dealing with jobs that seem too good to be true. This is because there's always a catch, always some sharpened instrument waiting in the dark to sing a lullaby to an unsuspecting audience, and it always seems to be fashioned from the same threads. There, the unfortunate woes of the rurally-challenged reigns supreme, always greeting the unfortunate in some sexually explicit way they never seem to want, and there are always lurid dreams and doom lurking in the shadows. Many times, this is a good combination, too, and it makes something that is well worth checking into. Unfortunately in the instance we call The Chosen, all this book has to offer on an otherwise interesting theme that this author has been developing is a seed, a little seed, and the cohesion of the book's multiple themes, well, they never pan out. Sure, there are violence tones, many of them, with people and blades greeting one another and the people oftentimes regretting it (the blades, well, they never seem to offer their opinions), but the way this is presented is mostly useless. The blood spilled seems to be nothing more than filler, plodding the story along on a course that, to me, ends in the dullest of manners. Sure, there are shadows and things going bump in them, but the explanation comes late in the book and the reasoning, it is a lifeless thing that only evokes more blood and the death of other people. And the build, based on dreams of hands that grope and do some rather livid things, really begins to wear on the patience after a time.<br />Basically, this book is nothing more than an erotic dream manifesting itself in a creepy place full of events that, for some odd reason, seem to be a fright train destined for a little town we call Disappointment. As an Edward Lee reader, it basically made me have to take a break from his works, almost keeping me away from some of his newer ideas on what a monster should be. Within all of my objections, the word \\"demonic pimp\\" can be attached, showing the questioner why they might want to rethink looking into the idea. . Yes, with phrases like this, the mood built in the beginning is defeated soundly.ting theme that this author has been developing is a seed, a little seed, and the cohesion of the book's multiple themes, well, they never pan out. Sure, there are violence tones, many of them, with people and blades greeting one another and the people oftentimes regretting it (the blades, well, they never seem to offer their opinions), but the way this is presented is mostly useless. The blood spilled seems to be nothing more than filler, plodding the story along on a course that, to me, ends in the dullest of manners. Sure, there are shadows and things going bump in them, but the explanation comes late in the book and the reasoning, it is a lifeless thing that only evokes more blood and the death of other people. And the build, based on dreams of hands that grope and do some rather livid things, really begins to wear on the patience after a time.<br />Basically, this book is nothing more than an erotic dream manifesting itself in a creepy place full of events that, for some odd reason, seem to be a fright train destined for a little town we call Disappointment. As an Edward Lee reader, it basically made me have to take a break from his works, almost keeping me away from some of his newer ideas on what a monster should be. Within all of my objections, the word \\"demonic pimp\\" can be attached, showing the questioner why they might want to rethink looking into the idea. . Yes, with phrases like this, the mood built in the beginning is defeated soundly.	2003-05-24
US	37053389	R25NO3PJRNOEKG	0843950757	540957532	Monstrosity	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Clinical Cures For the Ailments of Normality	Clare was a promising member of the Air Force, one that thought she would go far because of her drive and determination she had, and she worked hard at the security detail she worked. She was easily defined as a motivated individual, clearly exclaiming this fact in the way she approached tasks that were presented to her, and she was respected by her associates as someone that put her job before her free time because of this. So, when he came, the deformed child of one of the Air Force's top brass, having his way with her and shattering her dreams as the progression of this physical and mental rape took place, she found herself stunned by the events that followed. While she thought that someone would hear her plight, she found her claims on what had transpired thrown out and then, as the ultimate insult, she was dishonorably discharged from the service. Thus the nightmare began. Now, a year later, she finds herself unable to find employment, living in shelters as only a shadow of what she once was, and wanting so desperately to have something - anything - to steer her life in the right track. And then one day, while digging through the trash, she finds a fortune cookie that grants her the boon of prophecy, exclaiming \\"Something Very Good Will Happen to you Today,\\" and things begin to seem as if they are turning around. She finds herself offered a job, one where she would be the head of security at a clinic that is located in the middle of nowhere, and that offers her a home in the middle of a would-be paradise. White-sand beaches, friends, a cottage to call her own, a good salary, and a vehicle are only some of the things she founds suddenly thrust in front of her. Thinking this is too good to be true, she finds herself happy, wondering if the dream will end. Sadly, the dream is only a silver lining and the cloud, it is one with teeth.<br />A wildlife preserve in the depths of Flordarian naturalism, The Air Force doing what the Air Force likes to do, an archeological dig that find some well-preserved mummies dating back 10,000 years, and a cancer treatment facility seem like a string of things that wouldn't connect very well. In fact, they all seem like portions that could be good and could be ill by themselves, but that wouldn't make too harrowing a tale for someone when telling it. Still, when coupled with the name Edward Lee, definitely take on a much more gruesome shade of fabrication. When Edward Lee wants to create some vestibule of the horrific, meshing it into an almost B-movie storyline that makes for a wild world of entertaining notions, he can do it well because he understands some of the smaller portions that need to be given. His writing style, while somewhat simplistic (depending on the tale), allows for the use of some interesting analogies on how to prod and poke, how to maim and mutilate, and how teeth and the human form fit together and greeting one another warmly. It always seems to find a way to put a rural class of people in as antagonists and victims, people working as disposable cast members that can be seen in their addictions to alcohol and chemical crutches, and that are not always \\"bad,\\" but not normally \\"good.\\" That and it always creates beasts that work as beautiful horror boons for the reader looking for something that has the potential to destroy. So, in that right, Monstrosity delivers.<br />In some portions of the tale, there are some shortcomings as well, like the fact that some of the characters seem a bit too plastic for my tastes. Many of them, they seem to flutter through the story but without any impact other than in the lusting department, and that makes it hard to really ingest their suffering. Then there is the fact that the overwhelming allure of sexuality always inflicts Edward when writing and he, a victim of these needs, seems to think that the reader has to be reminded over and over again of these in order to feel the plight of the characters. Unfortunately for us, we oftentimes donot. While this doesn't necessarily hurt the read, mind you, but it is something worth noting and it does begin grating on the nerves a little, making me want more of the beast and less of the burdens.<br />Basically, if you like Lee's looks into what is or isn't the normal thing to find hiding in swamps, then you'll be pleasantly entertained. It isn't the most grotesque thing he's ever created but it does have a few moments that are nice, and its scripting is something that reads easily and quickly. If you haven't checked him out before, I would suggest starting in another place, looking around before you delve straight in, but I would say that this would make good reading at another time. Dying, deformity, and despair always made good snacks before bed.o not. While this doesn't necessarily hurt the read, mind you, but it is something worth noting and it does begin grating on the nerves a little, making me want more of the beast and less of the burdens.<br />Basically, if you like Lee's looks into what is or isn't the normal thing to find hiding in swamps, then you'll be pleasantly entertained. It isn't the most grotesque thing he's ever created but it does have a few moments that are nice, and its scripting is something that reads easily and quickly. If you haven't checked him out before, I would suggest starting in another place, looking around before you delve straight in, but I would say that this would make good reading at another time. Dying, deformity, and despair always made good snacks before bed.	2003-05-24
US	37053389	R3OXYED2YA4U4P	1558171193	889066270	Ghouls	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	101 Reasons to Never Trust a Fogbank	Something is stalking the town of Tylersville, leaving behind a plague of murders for the local police to deal with and a mysterious lack of evidence to go on. In fact, all the evidence points to something that could not be possible, that cannot be probable, but that seems to be stalking the shadows in search of both the living and the dead. It begins with the unearthing the recently deceased town drunkard, his body spirited away in the depths of the night, and then things begin going from bad to worse - leaving a trail of bodies in their wake before any answers begin to appear. For Kurt Morris, local police officer and man smitten by another's wife, things couldn't be worse, either. Not only does he have to deal with the motions taking place in that sea of would-be poaching, drug dealing, wife-battering, and drunken onslaughts of stupidity, but now he has the world of bodies to contend with. Worse still, it all seems to be stemming from that place, that shadowed form standing atop its own foreboding hill, its form surrounded by unkempt woodlands and discarded mines that could possibly hold secrets of the most sinister type.<br />As a person that has read quite a few of Edward Lee's books, I was actually surprised by what Ghouls brought to the proverbial table because it wasn't the atypical piece that he manufactures. First, the writing structure seemed more refined and the descriptions were laid-out better than some of his more horrific works, letting the town of Tylersville actually come to life around you as events began to manifest. Instead of faceless entities being lead to wholesale slaughter, the people therein became something denoted with a bit of realism that made them stand out. They, brimming with hopes and dreams and desires, befriended some people, playing wording games and delving into pits of small talk with them, while equally hating others. This made you feel a little something for them when the night came for them or when their friends died, and it gave you rhymes and reasons instead of a lack of dimensions. Second, the layout of the monsters themselves, although not used nearly enough to quench my thirst for abominations, was actually researched and backgrounding was given on the matter. The queries of \\"how\\" were answered as well as \\"what,\\" not leaving so many question marks to plague the mind of the reader when all was said and done.  Third, we do have elements of Lee that are mainstays, with evisceration going hand-in-hand with passion and pretexts of \\"rural subclassification\\" and making the read fun. Granted, it does take time to get to bodies dropping like flies, but when they come, they come with wings. Lastly, the length of the book let him delve into all type of subjects that Lee wanted to cover. Too often, he seems rushed, with the book passing by and the reader wanting even more. While I still wanted more when the book ended, I thought that the 440 plus pages (in rather small print) said what needed to be said and covered many grounds - even some of them almost seemingly mundane but working to flesh out the characters.<br />For anyone that likes Lee's newer works, then the monster type in the book might work well for you. You simply have to bear in mind that the pages don't run with blood immediately, nor do things manifest as quickly as some of the other books do. Here, time is taken and people are developed, giving more to the grounds when they are fed the remains of the living. For anyone that hasn't checked out Lee, I wouldn't recommend this as a starting point, but I would say that it would be something to check out if the chance presents itself.it gave you rhymes and reasons instead of a lack of dimensions. Second, the layout of the monsters themselves, although not used nearly enough to quench my thirst for abominations, was actually researched and backgrounding was given on the matter. The queries of \\"how\\" were answered as well as \\"what,\\" not leaving so many question marks to plague the mind of the reader when all was said and done.  Third, we do have elements of Lee that are mainstays, with evisceration going hand-in-hand with passion and pretexts of \\"rural subclassification\\" and making the read fun. Granted, it does take time to get to bodies dropping like flies, but when they come, they come with wings. Lastly, the length of the book let him delve into all type of subjects that Lee wanted to cover. Too often, he seems rushed, with the book passing by and the reader wanting even more. While I still wanted more when the book ended, I thought that the 440 plus pages (in rather small print) said what needed to be said and covered many grounds - even some of them almost seemingly mundane but working to flesh out the characters. <br />For anyone that likes Lee's newer works, then the monster type in the book might work well for you. You simply have to bear in mind that the pages don't run with blood immediately, nor do things manifest as quickly as some of the other books do. Here, time is taken and people are developed, giving more to the grounds when they are fed the remains of the living. For anyone that hasn't checked out Lee, I wouldn't recommend this as a starting point, but I would say that it would be something to check out if the chance presents itself.	2003-05-18
US	37053389	R3G1RENW3SIVTU	0843947888	404564239	Among the Missing	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Heads; The Over-Rated Appendage	Having fun, especially when wanting to take risks to up the stakes, sometimes bears the implication of having consequences to go along with those actions. Fortunately those moments sometimes grade with a learning curb, letting us go with only a scare and nothing more, and sometimes they have much harsher lessons to teach their pupils. In Among the Missing, these punctuation marks are some of the worst that people can find themselves confronted by. It begins with a woman, Alison Parkington, driving her Jaguar (barely clothed) to meet her lover in the dead of night, thinking that deserted woodlands would mean more pleasure for the principalities. These thoughts begin to manifest themselves, too, as her nameless love invites her to a more secluded place known as The Bend; a little river with sandy beaches that dance alight by the kiss of the moon. This, however, turns out to be short-lived fantasy as she finds herself thrust beneath those gleaming waters, suffocating, and then greeted by the press of the hacksaw. The next day, a couple planning a canoeing trip together happen upon two people lying in those sands, one a naked woman and the other a dressed man, and find that, as the male turns and flees, that the woman is of the headless variety. And then the strange cycle of problems begin.<br />Among the Missing was actually a pretty good read, containing many of the things that Laymon is well-known for and providing an ending that went well into the surprising twist category.  It has some gore but isn't really overly brimming with it, some violence that erupts while the chase is on but isn't hinged on that detail, greets with sexual encounters that aren't overly depictive but that do hit a few levels I really didn't care to hit, and a plot that spin around as characters are introduced and played with. In fact, it is a pretty nice piece garnished by semi-impressive fabrics, its construction decently solid and its characters introduced fairly well - with flaws, of course, that could have been delved into a little better. Still, it had one problem that somewhat bothered me; that of being deceptively short. While clocking in at almost 400 pages, this is something of an easy read that goes by breezily when the mind starts in on it. That's because the spacing is done too widely, there are blank pages used as breaks between short chapters, and there is an ocean of dialog leading to even more unused areas. Had this been used to perhaps flesh out the environments a little or to perhaps give the characters even more depth, then the book would have read without any problems at all. That said, this is hardly something I can find fault in while grading the story as a whole.<br />If you are a fan of Laymon books, then this won't be a disappointment for you. It doesn't run thick with blood and doesn't overly seed its pages with the wonderful worlds of horror, but it does have its moments and it does provide a nice twist in the end that makes you rethink the characters involved in the action. You simply have to give it a little time, let it run its course, and let it finish speaking before trying to measure what it has to say. Otherwise, it might seem like it doesn't explain enough of that it leaves too many gaps in the plot. For people that don't read Laymon, this would be akin to reading a B-movie, with many things happening that seem to stem from a murder mystery. It is a bit more graphic than those depictions sometimes, but it is still about the same and, if you don't mind this, you shouldn't mind the read. Personally, I found it enjoyable if not a little short, and think that readers not expecting horror might like it, too.rse, that could have been delved into a little better. Still, it had one problem that somewhat bothered me; that of being deceptively short. While clocking in at almost 400 pages, this is something of an easy read that goes by breezily when the mind starts in on it. That's because the spacing is done too widely, there are blank pages used as breaks between short chapters, and there is an ocean of dialog leading to even more unused areas. Had this been used to perhaps flesh out the environments a little or to perhaps give the characters even more depth, then the book would have read without any problems at all. That said, this is hardly something I can find fault in while grading the story as a whole.<br />If you are a fan of Laymon books, then this won't be a disappointment for you. It doesn't run thick with blood and doesn't overly seed its pages with the wonderful worlds of horror, but it does have its moments and it does provide a nice twist in the end that makes you rethink the characters involved in the action. You simply have to give it a little time, let it run its course, and let it finish speaking before trying to measure what it has to say. Otherwise, it might seem like it doesn't explain enough of that it leaves too many gaps in the plot. For people that don't read Laymon, this would be akin to reading a B-movie, with many things happening that seem to stem from a murder mystery. It is a bit more graphic than those depictions sometimes, but it is still about the same and, if you don't mind this, you shouldn't mind the read. Personally, I found it enjoyable if not a little short, and think that readers not expecting horror might like it, too.	2003-05-17
US	37053389	R37UIYS6NUIUMF	0843945508	217573810	Bite	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Steel, Fangs, and the Wells Where Bodies Hide	Love, it manifests in many a odd right, sometimes capturing those consumed by its presence in the most volatile and yet wondrous of manners. Here, it takes on different meanings depending on the audience, sometimes meaning that you don't have to say your sorry and sometimes demanding to be spoken with passions that defy the worlds that emotions weave. From Sam, these dreamlands of the heart have been something he has lived with for a seeming forever, always dreaming of Cat and always hoping that she would come back to him because she was the only woman he had ever loved. Then, in the midst of an unsuspecting night, the knock on the door came and she, the object of all his desires, did appear. Scantly clad and looking like an older version of the euphoria he remembered, she walked into his life and he, a lover loving, wanted to do anything he could to help her. Still, what does one do when love means something outside of the proverbial box, like being asked to come over, hide in a closet, and stake a vampire that has been assailing that perfect vision for well over a year?<br />Within this book, there are many ideas that seem to work out so well, like the way the vampire, a joke in our society, is approached and brought \\"to light.\\" Under a veil of shadows, it isn't really explained or rationalized all that heavily, leaving the reader open to the thoughts of whether the characters are planning a murder or if they are removing some supernatural blight from the world. This approach adds something to the mix, a feeling of perpetual horror that looming in the background, and that births an atmosphere of forbearance and gloom. Added to this are the complications with the most hastily-written plans, those that involve a madman, hostages, and Elliot the Vampire, plus the fact that Sam wishes to love and is unsure if love will be returned to him. This makes for a mental storehouse of emotions that birth children named \\"terror\\" and \\"shadows,\\" all carrying luggage that has the ability to broadcast a wide spectrum.<br />That said, there are many problems with the book, ones that come from the \\"complications\\" and the convenience by which these oddities just appear, making a convoluted puzzle of events that harm the movement of the motions. Characters suddenly change in the book, revealing falsehoods that wouldn't manage to slip past an observant person in the \\"real world,\\" and the reason for all the events become clouded and muddled. Toward the end of the book I found myself skimming pages, wanting to taste the ending because the ending was interesting but not enjoying the perpetual build that lasted a hundred pages too long, and that took a turn that really, really hurt the story in my mind. In one swoop, the point to almost two hundred pages was negated, trying to play with the characters but instead playing with me. And all because the torment wanted to get worse, tried to make more suffering in the whirlpool of paper, but it didn't accomplish the feat it set out seeking.<br />For fans of Laymon that like the twists and turns that he puts in stories, this might be something you would enjoy. It does have many realms it likes to travel through and it does have a disturbed tapestry of characters for the mind to choose from. That said, I have to say that I am actually a fan of Laymon and that I read and enjoy some, suffered some, and ultimately found the experience something that would have been better to breeze through. Horror, it is here, and love, it is apparent, but vampirism, it isn't the only thing lurking out of a shadowy realm of rhyme.ability to broadcast a wide spectrum.<br />That said, there are many problems with the book, ones that come from the \\"complications\\" and the convenience by which these oddities just appear, making a convoluted puzzle of events that harm the movement of the motions. Characters suddenly change in the book, revealing falsehoods that wouldn't manage to slip past an observant person in the \\"real world,\\" and the reason for all the events become clouded and muddled. Toward the end of the book I found myself skimming pages, wanting to taste the ending because the ending was interesting but not enjoying the perpetual build that lasted a hundred pages too long, and that took a turn that really, really hurt the story in my mind. In one swoop, the point to almost two hundred pages was negated, trying to play with the characters but instead playing with me. And all because the torment wanted to get worse, tried to make more suffering in the whirlpool of paper, but it didn't accomplish the feat it set out seeking.<br />For fans of Laymon that like the twists and turns that he puts in stories, this might be something you would enjoy. It does have many realms it likes to travel through and it does have a disturbed tapestry of characters for the mind to choose from. That said, I have to say that I am actually a fan of Laymon and that I read and enjoy some, suffered some, and ultimately found the experience something that would have been better to breeze through. Horror, it is here, and love, it is apparent, but vampirism, it isn't the only thing lurking out of a shadowy realm of rhyme.	2003-05-01
US	37053389	R380HWU3YNNP9P	0843950463	280047850	Night in the Lonesome October	Books	5	21	25	N	N	A Walk After Dark	Edward Logan, successful English Major and dedicated boyfriend, finds himself facing serious changes on a lonesome October night when he receives a note from his girlfriend, Holly, telling him that she's in love with someone else. Not knowing how to deal with that nor with the fact that the man she's seeing is named Jay (of all things!), he sets off in distress to simply walk and think and to commiserate his suffering while sulking beneath the shadowy veil of night. Well, when he begins wandering the night that first time, he finds himself introduced to a world he's never seen before, one that is brimming with wonders both beautiful and dangerous, and before he knows it he wants to see more and more of what's out there. Addiction, however, comes with costs and he finds himself confronted with dilemmas that assail him in his both his day life and this newly opening door within the darkness, sometimes with only frustrations but, from time to time, with the press of fear and teeth.<br />The late, great Richard Laymon constructed tales of many types in his career, inspiring readers such as myself with his ability to not only craft dread into the world of literature but also to evoke haunting images that bump around in the gloomy night. With a talent that defies many writers of our time, he could take something seemingly mundane that everyone can relate to, the act of being dumped and longing, and craft it into an introduction to a dark and mysterious world where beasts and the occasion beauty lurk. While this piece isn't exact what I would call a standard Laymon centerfold and sometimes too many oddities happen in too short of a timeslot and make both the reader and the character wonder what sort of a town this could be, it does have many qualities within it that I find enlightening. The main character, Edward, is developed throughout the story, with all of coming from his point-of-view as the world becomes darker and darker, and the feelings he feels becoming more and more clouded and uncertain. What sometimes begins as an uncrossable line is questioned and then sullied, and Edward finds himself more and more addicted to the strange world that he seems looming just outside of normality's reach. In it, love lurks where love shouldn't and the shadows cough up figures basking in insanity, and the world becomes a battlefield for senses spinning out of control. Here, he finds himself with more than he bargained for and all because Holly, the woman that he loved, walked away from him and left him wandering alone.<br />Personally, I found the book to be a good read but I can understand how some people would find it a questionable experience and am hesitant to recommend it above other Laymon pieces. The point of this experience wasn't really to create a picture of suffering or horror, but to create an atmosphere in which the world becomes a shadowy pit and sensations fight for domination. This made the life of Edward addictive to me because it seemed like things would go spiraling through twining turns I didn't expect, with Edward causing many of them himself and me wanting to know how this seeming tragedy-in-the-making would turn out. That's what I like from a book, not knowing where the chips will fall when they are cast, and that overrides many of the small details that make many readers trivialize the experience. It does have a few moments in the end that seemed a little drawn out, though, and it is something that is more moody than anything else. So, caution is perhaps something that should be taken before jumping in head first.more clouded and uncertain. What sometimes begins as an uncrossable line is questioned and then sullied, and Edward finds himself more and more addicted to the strange world that he seems looming just outside of normality's reach. In it, love lurks where love shouldn't and the shadows cough up figures basking in insanity, and the world becomes a battlefield for senses spinning out of control. Here, he finds himself with more than he bargained for and all because Holly, the woman that he loved, walked away from him and left him wandering alone. <br />Personally, I found the book to be a good read but I can understand how some people would find it a questionable experience and am hesitant to recommend it above other Laymon pieces. The point of this experience wasn't really to create a picture of suffering or horror, but to create an atmosphere in which the world becomes a shadowy pit and sensations fight for domination. This made the life of Edward addictive to me because it seemed like things would go spiraling through twining turns I didn't expect, with Edward causing many of them himself and me wanting to know how this seeming tragedy-in-the-making would turn out. That's what I like from a book, not knowing where the chips will fall when they are cast, and that overrides many of the small details that make many readers trivialize the experience. It does have a few moments in the end that seemed a little drawn out, though, and it is something that is more moody than anything else. So, caution is perhaps something that should be taken before jumping in head first.	2003-04-26
US	37053389	R3NG3QU2P8YLQ8	0843946903	934186299	One Rainy Night	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Inky Veil of Shadows	The town of Bixby seems like an ordinary enough place to live. The people live their ordinary lives with their ordinary jobs to attend to, dreaming dreams of being fairytales that defy the mundaneness of their existence like most people find themselves doing. Then comes the event in which a boy is burned alive because of the color of his skin and the girl he dated, followed by the black rain that changes everything in the blink of an eye. As it falls, people find themselves coated in sodden clothing and polluted with more than just physical, but also emotional, grime. They wander the streets that they've lived in maddened with murderous rage and primal desires while the people \\"lucky\\" enough to avoid those sooty skies cringe as the night of the \\"wet people\\" descends. And that is just the beginning.<br />In the realm of horror writing, the story seems a bit clich&eacute; at first. There's a catalyst that causes something ominous to descend upon a town, thrusting its occupants into a state of evolving madness. Within it are wondrous forms of gore and a potential victimology being birthed, but it seems to state that, in the end, all actions have consequences and that even the innocents suffer at the hands of those willing to sacrifice them. The thing that makes it good, however, is that the story is crafted in an entertaining fashion and the black rain finds a nice way to construct a tale that says that its author, Richard Laymon, understands how to divulge the fabric of his thoughts and break through the mundane. Through the use of introduction to a town that seems like so many other towns and citizens that have lives and feelings, he melds their thoughts and reactions into a world where every turn has a potential disaster looming with an axe in the shadows. He showcases little pieces of the world outside but, for the most part, the story is a character-driven one and the fear and loves his constructs entail look and act like the realities of emotion. Pain, loss, watching the death of people that you have cared about and loved and knowing that, in some rights, you yourself could have caused this, is spoken each time one of his people looks outside and breaths. Everyone has the potential to falter and fall down that spiraling staircase, becoming a victim or a monster or at least a person marred by experience. Personally, I find that favorable when reading about some bedevilment laying stretching out its hand.<br />If you are someone that is looking for enjoyment that isn't groundbreaking but that does entertain in a gruesome fashion, then you might enjoy this and other pieces from the mind of Laymon. He has a way with the tapestries woven, one that many other people lack in their storytelling, and is worth staking out because there is always some sacrificial lamb worth watching as it suffers through page after bleak page. Some are better than others, mind you, and some have more to say as the author progresses and grows, but they all have something within them I find worth reading.the death of people that you have cared about and loved and knowing that, in some rights, you yourself could have caused this, is spoken each time one of his people looks outside and breaths. Everyone has the potential to falter and fall down that spiraling staircase, becoming a victim or a monster or at least a person marred by experience. Personally, I find that favorable when reading about some bedevilment laying stretching out its hand. <br />If you are someone that is looking for enjoyment that isn't groundbreaking but that does entertain in a gruesome fashion, then you might enjoy this and other pieces from the mind of Laymon. He has a way with the tapestries woven, one that many other people lack in their storytelling, and is worth staking out because there is always some sacrificial lamb worth watching as it suffers through page after bleak page. Some are better than others, mind you, and some have more to say as the author progresses and grows, but they all have something within them I find worth reading.	2003-04-24
US	37053389	R2QJ65OFZWR72D	1569714673	879708733	Star Wars: Bounty Hunters	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Hunting amongst the Stars	Want a guide to the notoriously infamous benefactors feeding off the rage of others, dealing exclusively with an eclectic montage of bounty hunters from all species and all walks of life? Well, this just be the book for you then. It pits not on the popular into a world of hunting and trying to survive, but it also sports newcomers as well, introducing its reader to why these faces are revered as some of the most successful seekers in the business. First there's the lovely Aurra Sing, Jedi-hunter extraordinare, capable of capturing the most elusive prey in the best and worst of conditions. In fact, she makes a great deal of sport out of it, finding herself capable of outwitting even the most dangerous proponents. This is something she finds herself entwined in now, the calling card of the face she seeks taking her to Endor and beyond. Switching gears, see how Bossk, Dengar, and 4-Lom work into the plans of Quaffag the Hutt as he decides to deal once and for all with Lando Calrissian while playing games that Hutts are known to play. Then its off to see the most reviled of the feared in action, with Boba Fett finding himself needing to take out a little trash by the name of Jodo Kast; a bounty hunter who thinks that he's in the same league as the man with the Mandalorian armor. Lastly, we join Kenix Kil as he makes his way through the remnants of the empire disguised as a bounty hunter, the last of the Imperial Guard left in circulation and one of the most dangerous men alive, still loyal to his oath of destroying all those enemies of the Empire years after the Emperor's departure.<br />All the stories collected within these pages are good despite being short, with Aurra Sing, Boba Fett: Twin Engines of Destruction, and Kenix Kil rating within the praiseable ranks. Of these three, I'm partial to the telling of the Boba Fett story because it is written well and is drawn well, plus its dealing with the most infamous of the big kids. Aurra Sing comes in a close second with Kenix Kil right behind her because these stories are done well themselves, and they are also about characters that many haven't yet tasted that much. Scoundrel's Wage, while an interesting story in some rights, doesn't do much in regard to bounty hunters at all and only explains how Lando manages to get himself into Jabba the Hutt's palace in Return of the Jedi. It paints the hunters out as ineffective and is more about Lando himself and the cunning he possesses than the minions commanding the high dollars.<br />If you find the forces working outside the boundaries of both good and ill, then this might be something you'd like to check out. All the stories are pretty good in this TPB form, and the Boba Fett: Twin Engines of Destruction tale needed to be harvested for quite some time now. So, sit back, barter on the outcome of who will and won't taste the talents of the figures lurking in the shadows, and read up on some rather exquisite struggles. For the Star Wars seeker, it is something that comes highly regarded.h Kenix Kil right behind her because these stories are done well themselves, and they are also about characters that many haven't yet tasted that much. Scoundrel's Wage, while an interesting story in some rights, doesn't do much in regard to bounty hunters at all and only explains how Lando manages to get himself into Jabba the Hutt's palace in Return of the Jedi. It paints the hunters out as ineffective and is more about Lando himself and the cunning he possesses than the minions commanding the high dollars. <br />If you find the forces working outside the boundaries of both good and ill, then this might be something you'd like to check out. All the stories are pretty good in this TPB form, and the Boba Fett: Twin Engines of Destruction tale needed to be harvested for quite some time now. So, sit back, barter on the outcome of who will and won't taste the talents of the figures lurking in the shadows, and read up on some rather exquisite struggles. For the Star Wars seeker, it is something that comes highly regarded.	2003-03-21
US	37053389	RDD0S404TGH7H	0515134279	176741903	Straw Men	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The Hills, Curiosity, and the Captivity They Reveal	In a fast-food restaurant in the midst of Nowhere, USA, things seem gripped with the normality of people burrowing into their daily grinds. Some are locals and others tourists, some reserved and some rather talkative, but all have one thing in common. They, by some misfortune birthed by Nokkon Wod, are at the wrong place at the wrong time. Two gunmen enter, spraying the place with weapon fire, killing more than sixty percent of the people inside and nobody is the wiser as to why. Outside of a bookstore where a teenage girl is supposed to be meeting a friend, she runs into a stranger that she's never met with one thing in common with her; a love for England. Despite being 14 and knowing better, she converses for a few moments and then, in a burst of events that go from somewhat frightening to downright tragic, disappears in almost plain sight. Credit goes to a serial killer, The Upright Man, for yet another horrific deed. A man who has just seen his parents killed in a car wreck and is buried in a cemetery of internal grief goes to their home to mourn. While there, he finds a book with a note stuck in it that states, in his father's handwriting, \\"We're not Dead.\\" In many ways these events seem to all be disconnected from the other but, as our main characters soon find out, they all link to people that simply call themselves The Straw Men.<br />Much to Michael Marshall's credit, he knows how to detail characters and the world around them with illustrate terminology that is, in a word, refreshing. His use of descriptiveness is so vivid and crisp that it painted everything transpiring with such clarity, keeping pace with the tones of both events happening and the madness floating through many of the character's minds. At first the book seemed to have more than one storyline running through it that made it seem a little confusing, with the tale of Ward (who lovingly found the hidden note) trying to find out what has happened to his parents and two individuals - an ex-cop and an agent - trying to apprehend The Upright Man. Sometimes this seemed a bit claustrophobic and threw the pace off a bit, pushing you from the subjects you've just delved deeply into and switching gears to another focal point. It all starts to make sense after a time, though, and the connectiveness drawing the two seemingly unrelated events together is interesting to watch develop. Added to this is the fact that The Straw Men and The Upright Man were well written and a bit on the depraved side of the spectrum, always throwing problems into the fray and making the read an entertaining one to work through.<br />For an author's first work, I'd have to call this a masterful one and worthy of recommendation to anyone interested in the exploration of the depraved side of life. It does have a few scene in it that might be a tad on the graphic side, but these are few and placed well, and some of the ideology presented might find some viewers offended by such notions. Still, in the world of serial killers and mass murders, I suppose this reaction would be the one that is being tried for and grasped onto well. It works as a chase, throwing characters a little cat-and-mouse in the toyland of sensation, and comes highly recommended for those who want something dark to coat their mental corridors with.and an agent - trying to apprehend The Upright Man. Sometimes this seemed a bit claustrophobic and threw the pace off a bit, pushing you from the subjects you've just delved deeply into and switching gears to another focal point. It all starts to make sense after a time, though, and the connectiveness drawing the two seemingly unrelated events together is interesting to watch develop. Added to this is the fact that The Straw Men and The Upright Man were well written and a bit on the depraved side of the spectrum, always throwing problems into the fray and making the read an entertaining one to work through.<br />For an author's first work, I'd have to call this a masterful one and worthy of recommendation to anyone interested in the exploration of the depraved side of life. It does have a few scene in it that might be a tad on the graphic side, but these are few and placed well, and some of the ideology presented might find some viewers offended by such notions. Still, in the world of serial killers and mass murders, I suppose this reaction would be the one that is being tried for and grasped onto well. It works as a chase, throwing characters a little cat-and-mouse in the toyland of sensation, and comes highly recommended for those who want something dark to coat their mental corridors with.	2003-03-20
US	37053389	RIDWJR4Y2EPOM	1871592321	486146000	The Starry Wisdom : A Tribute to H.P. Lovecraft	Books	4	12	13	N	N	When the Stars Smile Back	Within the confines of Lovecraftian tributes there are sometimes successes that combine elements of the fantastical with the bizarre, mixed results that couple the failings of one author with the successes of another, or - in the most rare instances - there are failures that can be found utterly without merit. These are the wonderful worlds that we throw ourselves into whenever purchasing a set of names attributed to a larger creator, and its something I normally fear because I've touched the eye of the proverbial oven one too many times. Still, within The Starry Wisdom, you have something of the middle man of the bunch, giving you pieces of the lore that are actually well-written and concise, as well as pieces that have no redeeming qualities, however. Unfortunately that is the lifeblood of many collected pieces, however, and everything has to be taken as such because of this. Happily, though, I have to say that there are some things in the book that I wouldn't want to be without.<br />Of all the stories within the chronicled tales here, there is an artistic adaptation of Lovecraft's Call of Cthulhu done by John Coulthart that is immaculately done. The quality of the work is fantastic and captures the visions within the madness so very well. Few things merit praise as much as this does, and it truly makes the book worth buying by itself. Still, there are other noteable contributions that add to this as well, including a little Robert M. Price (A Thousand Young), some Brian Lumley (The Night Sea-Maid Went Down), David Conway (Black Static), Ramsey Campbell (Potential), William S. Burroughs (Wind Die, You Die, We Die) and a little Allan Moore (The Courtyard). There are also pieces from Grant Morrison (Lovecraft in Heaven), James Havoc and Mike Philbin (Third Eye Butterfly), Henry Wessel (From This Swamp), JG Ballad (Prisoner of the Coral Deep), Dan Kellet (Red Mass), Simon Whitechapel (Walpurgisnachtmusik), DF Lewis (Meltdown), John Beal (Beyond Reflection), CG Brandrick and DM Mitchell (The Exquisite Corpse), Micheal Gira (Extracted From the Mouth of the Consumer, Rotting Pig), Adele Olivia Glawell (Hypothetical Materfamalias), Don Webb (The Sound of a Door Opening), Rick Grimes (Pills Fro Miss Betsy), Peter Smith (The Dreamers in Darkness), Stephen Sennitt (Nails), and DM Mitchell (Ward)that can be hit-or-miss depending on what you demand from your authors. Many of these titles have come and gone through various books in the past, some more than others, and there are many that I really didn't like in the set. Still, the illustrated portion of the book was done in ways that made it seems so wondrously worth obtaining and I'm glad I put it into my collection because of it.<br />For fans of HP Lovecraft's works, then you might want to look into these titles - provided that you don't own them already. I would also suggest picking it up because of the reason I listed before, noting that the illustrated portions of the book are something done in the most commendable of ways. Even if you aren't a fan of Lovecraft but you love some of the things doe with his ideas, then this would be worth at least looking into because of the tendrils making sweet music in the background of nightmarish dreams. To a point, depending on your ownership already, it comes recommended.drick and DM Mitchell (The Exquisite Corpse), Micheal Gira (Extracted From the Mouth of the Consumer, Rotting Pig), Adele Olivia Glawell (Hypothetical Materfamalias), Don Webb (The Sound of a Door Opening), Rick Grimes (Pills Fro Miss Betsy), Peter Smith (The Dreamers in Darkness), Stephen Sennitt (Nails), and DM Mitchell (Ward)that can be hit-or-miss depending on what you demand from your authors. Many of these titles have come and gone through various books in the past, some more than others, and there are many that I really didn't like in the set. Still, the illustrated portion of the book was done in ways that made it seems so wondrously worth obtaining and I'm glad I put it into my collection because of it. <br />For fans of HP Lovecraft's works, then you might want to look into these titles - provided that you don't own them already. I would also suggest picking it up because of the reason I listed before, noting that the illustrated portions of the book are something done in the most commendable of ways. Even if you aren't a fan of Lovecraft but you love some of the things doe with his ideas, then this would be worth at least looking into because of the tendrils making sweet music in the background of nightmarish dreams. To a point, depending on your ownership already, it comes recommended.	2003-03-19
US	37053389	R23A3QWEYRWCE3	0553578855	498832304	The Mandalorian Armor (Star Wars: The Bounty Hunter Wars, Book 1)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Digestion and the Art of Denying Sarlaccs	Dancing one's way into a Sarlacc can invoke some bodily problems in anyone, including the most dangerous bounty hunter to grace the universe's ballrooms, and can leave them reliant on the aid of another in these times of trouble. Such is the case for Boba Fett, stricken by the misfortune of working for a Hutt and sticking around a desert planet a little too long, as well as the Dengar that finds him after he's blasted his way out of that eating machine. So, what does one do with a bounty hunter that would be worth a fortune dead and more if he were allowed to live and keep his promise to make you a partner? This is a tough question considering he knows some of the past that has led to the mystique of the universe's most loved bounty hunter and that many a person would try to [destroy] him if they knew that he was in a weakened condition and you, too, if you were to allow yourself to get in the way of their whims.<br />In this installation, I personally found myself liking the story as it wandered through the Bounty Hunter's Guild and the fall of such an esteemed organization, enjoying the scheme that Kud'ar Mub'at and his arachnid-like portions has birthed into being - not to mention the character itself and the oddities invoked within, like the fact that a piece of himself would one day arise and consume him and take his place. I also liked looking into the mindset of Bossk and his partner-in-crime, Zuckuss, as they bumbled about and ended up picking up Boba's scraps. The series also builds on other things that I liked as well, including some rather odd Hutts that are always enjoyable (bigger is better, especially when you have suits that can defy gravity) and are always trying to stay one step ahead of the game, plus the fact that Boba throws some plans into action that are actually high caliber assaults upon the playing field. Unfortunately, I've read the entire series and can say that this book was good but that the second installation was a painful trek into the mindset of redundancy and hurts the groundwork laid herein, making it hard to continue onward. There are times when the repetition of ideas is ground into the reader's mind over and over again as the works progress, making it an annoyance as you are given a person's mindset three times too many or when there is an event that has been [repeated over and over] and is still being dredged up.<br />If you can stand the fact that the book isn't exactly iron-on idealism to the Lucas empire and that Boba gets to crawl his way out of the Sarlacc ... then the first book herein is a pretty interesting read. It does like to play a bit and the series continuation hurts me as I recall reading onward, but this installation - graded by itself - births an interesting array of characters and ideas as it moves toward galactic [plan]. You simply have to bear in mind that one portion of the story might be the only piece you ever really want to read from cover to cover.he mindset of redundancy and hurts the groundwork laid herein, making it hard to continue onward. There are times when the repetition of ideas is ground into the reader's mind over and over again as the works progress, making it an annoyance as you are given a person's mindset three times too many or when there is an event that has been [repeated over and over] and is still being dredged up. <br />If you can stand the fact that the book isn't exactly iron-on idealism to the Lucas empire and that Boba gets to crawl his way out of the Sarlacc ... then the first book herein is a pretty interesting read. It does like to play a bit and the series continuation hurts me as I recall reading onward, but this installation - graded by itself - births an interesting array of characters and ideas as it moves toward galactic [plan]. You simply have to bear in mind that one portion of the story might be the only piece you ever really want to read from cover to cover.	2003-03-17
US	37053389	R2X6R90RZCTX8U	1887368566	250630428	Right to Life: And 2 Stories	Books	5	11	18	N	Y	Abductions and the Months They Breed	Sara Foster finds herself in a situation she had never thought she would be in again, one in which she feels that her body and her emotions have betrayed her and have allowed her to love once more. Its a sad thing, too, because Greg's a married man and happy with his family, a good man that also loves her but that can't leave them, and because she's pregnant with his child. Because of tragedy in the past this is further complicated, to the point that having the baby doesn't seem like a viable option. Together they decide that aborting the child is better than the pain of not being able to be with one another, and Sara decides that, in order to get things over with, she'd have Greg drop her off and park his car. Enter Stephen and Katherine Teach, one with the inability to have children and the other with plans that feed his sadistic desires, as they take their station wagon and snatch Sara off the streets in broad daylight, leading toward a life that has, until now, been nothing more than a news article read in passing.<br />Although this is only a novella in length, I found myself happy with the way that Ketchum balanced the act of positioning the character and storytelling, letting the days bleed by and the notions infect mindsets as one played into the other. He did this by keeping times and dates at first and by letting you know what was through the minds of both the victim and the victimizers, not to mention leaving no holds barred in the torment department. In many rights this made me feel for Sara, the woman that had been judged and yet wasn't known to the captors that kept her locked inside those devices, as the story played out and the travesties became more familiar to the person they had attempted to break.<br />Also accompanying this are two really short stories, one which I liked and the other that I didn't, called Brave Girl and Returns. In Brave Girl I saw an idea that I thought might be horrific in its own right, that might find a way to display something vile within its clutches, but that turned out to be something that I was relatively disappointed in. Perhaps it was because of the content of the book that caused it, that its message seemed out of place to me and tragic but not tragic enough, or that it simply wasn't that well orchestrated on its minute approach. Whatever the case, it wasn't a hit with me. Returns was better, however, making up for Brave Girl with a little breath of oddity in its own right, finishing off the book with a brisk jog through the lives of the dead and the reasons they carry back into life. I still don't judge these as anything other than accompanying material, however, and see them as nice gifts set as ornamentation for a novella I liked.<br />For anyone that enjoys Ketchum's works, I think this is a pretty nice piece to have around. It isn't as detailed as some of the longer works as far as setting is concerned, but this instance doesn't demand setting changes so familiarity allows a little less. He still has all the time to delve into the torments of the captive, the mindset painted in the expressions of the tormentors, and how things can sometimes become a little graphic as the horrific is fleshed out. It is a quick read, but a good one nonetheless.thing vile within its clutches, but that turned out to be something that I was relatively disappointed in. Perhaps it was because of the content of the book that caused it, that its message seemed out of place to me and tragic but not tragic enough, or that it simply wasn't that well orchestrated on its minute approach. Whatever the case, it wasn't a hit with me. Returns was better, however, making up for Brave Girl with a little breath of oddity in its own right, finishing off the book with a brisk jog through the lives of the dead and the reasons they carry back into life. I still don't judge these as anything other than accompanying material, however, and see them as nice gifts set as ornamentation for a novella I liked.<br />For anyone that enjoys Ketchum's works, I think this is a pretty nice piece to have around. It isn't as detailed as some of the longer works as far as setting is concerned, but this instance doesn't demand setting changes so familiarity allows a little less. He still has all the time to delve into the torments of the captive, the mindset painted in the expressions of the tormentors, and how things can sometimes become a little graphic as the horrific is fleshed out. It is a quick read, but a good one nonetheless.	2003-03-14
US	37053389	R3BAZ37UD6VXYE	0943151589	945788679	Cat With Really Big Head One Other Story That Isn't As Good	Books	5	51	57	N	N	Nature and Its Mocking Tone	When I was a child and beginning to bury my mind in the shaded realms of Shel Silverstein, H.P. Lovecraft, Dark Horse Comics, and Edgar Allen Poe, I oftentimes wondered if these thoughts would be allowed to continue in the apex of adulthood. In fables, for instance, the forces of good seemed to triumph over evil as the years went by and try to turn readers from cynicism, and the realms of supposed art always frown upon the world of comic books. My parents didn't love the things I loved and the world seemed to shun the fanciful, and I feared that the movements of silliness as it plays hand in hand with the morbid would be lost. Enter people like Roman Dirge and his partner in writing crime, J. Vasquez, and I see that all those thoughts of growing up had perhaps been too hastily crafted.<br />Within The Cat With A Really Big Head, there is a short tale fleshed out about a cat that is, amongst other things, born with a really big head. Its short and actually a story being told on one page and is followed by a picture on the next, giving Dirge readers the worlds they are accustomed to while expanding them somewhat. Sometimes this leads to events that are tragically funny, horrible in their demented imagery that make people like myself chuckle, not for the smallest of children because people shield their kids from interesting ideas for some reason, and befittingly affordable. Attached to it is also the \\"and the other story that isn't as good,\\" which deals with a little girl that dies and returns to ask why. It has more of a rhyming flow and laughs in the face of doom as well, making it a nice companion piece for the story.<br />For anyone who likes their paintings hung a little off-center and their stories told with an almost childlike curiosity, then this is the place for you. Life is wrapped and stuffed, propped up by the fireplace and commented on with laughter herein, and some people could perhaps find that offensive. Still, ignoring the naysayers is always fun and better still with enjoyable works, so I'd recommend buying this and feeding it to a mind you love.etter still with enjoyable works, so I'd recommend buying this and feeding it to a mind you love.	2003-03-13
US	37053389	R3NEE0GOT2PY40	1887368353	292687471	Ladies Night	Books	4	15	18	N	Y	Perfumed Pleasures and the Teeth They Possess	When certain chemicals are applied to the opposite sex's visage, specific emotions are brought into fruition. Sometimes its a feeling of heightened bliss and attraction, other times its love and devotion, and still other times its safety and a feeling somewhat like home. When chemicals that have been manufactured for warfare are applied, however, all deals are off and, for the men of New York City, its run for your lives time.<br />Basically a B-movie in practice, this story focuses around the lives of one character, Tom Braun, and the people surrounding him as all the women that come into contact with a certain mystery chemical become primal killing machines. These individuals include his son, his wife, his infatuation, the bartender he keeps to cope with his infatuations, and other people met along the way, all struggling for some way out of the nightmare that has fallen on them in a twenty-four hour period (and that smells like Cherry lollipops, for anyone interested in holding their breath). It is because of this that I thought the book was good but, at the same time, that it also lacked in some regard as the streets slicked with gore. The characters were noticeable and the effects were gruesome and sometimes even applaudable, but the outside world ramifications weren't really focused on at all. The setting sometimes teemed but more than often were just barely touched, and some of the momentum is lost toward the last portion of the book. Still, the last statement made in the book was something that, in many ways, I found to redeem much of that.<br />For someone looking for a quick read that is slicked with the internals of the unfortunate, this might be something that you might be interested in. It has quite a few little deaths that seemed, well, painful, plus it goes into detail about random acts of violence going on all about the city. If you need the backgrounds painted for you and the city described in more than a minimalist perspective, it might be something that you might want to save for later.ng that you might want to save for later.	2003-03-10
US	37053389	RJ6GB602I5LAS	1569718628	837757273	B.P.R.D. Volume 1: Hollow Earth & Other Stories (v. 1)	Books	5	15	21	N	N	For all the Ailments that Haunt You	Is there something rending the fabric of time and space asunder above your newly furnished kitchen, or perhaps a society of bedeviled mermen taking residence in the lake outside your abode? Do you or someone you love find yourself bewitched by a troublesome necromancer seeking to call out the Seven-forms of Ogdru-Jahad? Well, if the shoe fits and you find yourself longing for the one tried-and-true method to cure that which ails you, perhaps you should enlist the aid of the B. P. R. D.  The B. P. R. D.  specializes in most forms of manifestation and malevolence, providing cure-alls that sometimes work in the most subtle of fashions and that sometimes provide the most groundbreaking of results, keeping Britain and much of the world free from the oppressive grasp of those who would seek to bind her.<br />Before I continue with explanations, the guides to our operations (comics) collected in this Trade Paperback include: \\"BPRD: Hollow Earth\\" from BPRD: Hollow Earth #1-#3, \\"BPRD\\"- the strip from Dark Horse Extra #42-#44, \\"Abe Sapien: Drums of the Dead\\" from Abe Sapien: Drums of the Dead, \\"Lobster Johnson: Killer Inside My Skull\\" from Hellboy: Box Full of Evil #1, \\"Abe Sapien vs. Science\\" from Hellboy: Box Full of Evil #2, and depictive illustrations in a Mike Mignola and Ryan Sook sketchbook.<br /><br />So, you might be ask, what does B.P.R.D. stand for and who exactly are they? Well, the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense is composed of many individuals from the lowest operatives to field agents and beyond that strive to keep the world safe from those unclassified menaces, great and small. Within those ranks we have many people with special talents, including the currently inactive Hellboy (see the end of Conqueror Worm for detail), Abe Sapien, Roger the Homunculus, \\"Liz\\" Sherman, and newer agents that sometimes find themselves only temporary additions to the roster because of, um, unforeseeable circumstances. In the installment that directly deals with this agency and all the mainstays involved (\\"BPRD: Hollow Earth\\" from BPRD: Hollow Earth #1-#3), Liz Sherman finds herself with a dilemma of the soul because of her pyrotechnic talent and her inability to always control it, and is seeking remedies that the B. P. R. D. cannot provide. So, following Hellboy's lead and walking away, she heads for the solace of the Ural Mountains and a place where \\"dreams dwell.\\" While there, she finds the peace she has sought, but only for a time before something comes seeking her and the aid of the agency is needed.<br />To understand another agent and his respective incorperation/the talents he bring to the Bureau, there is also additionally provided documentation on that as well. One of the pivotal cornerstone we use, Abe Sapien (Homo Aquaticus), has led to many contributions within the organization and is one of the finest stars ever forged in the detective sky. He found out that the \\"Roger\\" wasn't simply a mass of discarded science after the incident with the \\"incident\\" with the giant (\\"Abe Sapien vs. Science\\" from Hellboy: Box Full of Evil #2 - occurring after Almost Colossus), for instance,  and, in an incident where madness and the cries of something within the depths of the ocean almost claimed he and one of our telepaths, he managed to thwart what was amounting to be the doom of many a sailor (\\"Abe Sapien: Drums of the Dead\\" from Abe Sapien: Drums of the Dead).<br />Also, to help one conceive of the blights confronting our agency, we've added in information on one of the mysterious cases that the reputed Lobster Johnson worked on, proving that sometimes it really is mind over matter (\\"Lobster Johnson: Killer Inside My Skull\\" from Hellboy: Box Full of Evil #1). We feel that, by opening case files of someone considered a mythological hero and combining it with who our bureau is and what we do, we can better protect the world and thereby protect you, the newly inaugurated, protect themselves.<br />And now you know.ncy and all the mainstays involved (\\"BPRD: Hollow Earth\\" from BPRD: Hollow Earth #1-#3), Liz Sherman finds herself with a dilemma of the soul because of her pyrotechnic talent and her inability to always control it, and is seeking remedies that the B. P. R. D. cannot provide. So, following Hellboy's lead and walking away, she heads for the solace of the Ural Mountains and a place where \\"dreams dwell.\\" While there, she finds the peace she has sought, but only for a time before something comes seeking her and the aid of the agency is needed. <br />To understand another agent and his respective incorperation/the talents he bring to the Bureau, there is also additionally provided documentation on that as well. One of the pivotal cornerstone we use, Abe Sapien (Homo Aquaticus), has led to many contributions within the organization and is one of the finest stars ever forged in the detective sky. He found out that the \\"Roger\\" wasn't simply a mass of discarded science after the incident with the \\"incident\\" with the giant (\\"Abe Sapien vs. Science\\" from Hellboy: Box Full of Evil #2 - occurring after Almost Colossus), for instance,  and, in an incident where madness and the cries of something within the depths of the ocean almost claimed he and one of our telepaths, he managed to thwart what was amounting to be the doom of many a sailor (\\"Abe Sapien: Drums of the Dead\\" from Abe Sapien: Drums of the Dead).<br />Also, to help one conceive of the blights confronting our agency, we've added in information on one of the mysterious cases that the reputed Lobster Johnson worked on, proving that sometimes it really is mind over matter (\\"Lobster Johnson: Killer Inside My Skull\\" from Hellboy: Box Full of Evil #1). We feel that, by opening case files of someone considered a mythological hero and combining it with who our bureau is and what we do, we can better protect the world and thereby protect you, the newly inaugurated, protect themselves. <br />And now you know.	2003-03-10
US	37053389	R2NEAPQEO0X64X	1881475913	919397803	Stickmen	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	When the Truth Really is Out There	In the world of horror, Edward Lee stands out as something of a sledgehammer to the reading skull, most of the time hitting you with depictions that have the ability to haunt your reading mind. Still, this isn't always the case and sometimes he crafts works that can grab his audience in ways you really don't expect. Honestly, this is what I like about him because, from book to book, I am really unsure of what will be presented before this audience of one, and if the ensuing dreams my subconscious will spit out will be profoundly interesting or horrifically inclined. Having delved into some of his more gruesome works (The Bighead) and some of his more lightweight contributions (Dead Cats Bouncing), I found myself a bit torn on what I wanted from his as a writer and still wanted to press forward, and there was something about The Stickmen that possessed me to buy it. Now, after looking through it and being introduced to the characters within, I'm actually glad I took the time to ingest it. I say this because there is something about the writing style that Lee possesses and the simplicity it sometimes possesses and yet the ideas its able to produce, his use of comparisons that can sometimes make a reader laugh and sometimes sigh in disbelief, and because The Stickmen was, in my opinion, a great read.<br />So, what does a paranoid conspiracy theorist that has been kicked out of almost every \\"notably established\\" chronicle to the oddities within the natural world, a kid that seems to have dreams about being abducted by aliens, the theft of a small atomic device that could destroy a city block, and the revelation that aliens that can simply be termed \\"Stickmen\\" in such a short review exist have in common? Well, they are the glue that hold this story, which is a fast-paced read through an armada of strange happenstance that interconnect in many a weird way,together. The book keeps the reader reading on, wondering exactly how things are going to fit together and what outcome the book is working toward. Personally, this is what I liked about the book because I knew and yet didn't know, and was kept guessing throughout much of the story that, despite its quickened pace, kept me reading onward until the ending.<br />For those who haven't read Edward Lee, I would state that this isn't what I have atypically found him producing. There were a few lightweight murders that coated the pages in red, but most of the book is about the mysterious things going on and the subsequent chase leading to the end of the extraterrestrial rainbow. Still, I wouldn't expect all of his books to approach life this way and would recommend looking into each of them individually for content before thinking that he is a lightweight in the gore department. For those who have read Lee and like his style, I thought that the little barbs of humor and the approach were here, and that this was a worthy read in the realms that have, in the past, disappointed me. You simply have to be in the mood for the subject matter because, unlike many of his more terrestrial horrors, this ranges in the Science Fiction category to me.me the book is working toward. Personally, this is what I liked about the book because I knew and yet didn't know, and was kept guessing throughout much of the story that, despite its quickened pace, kept me reading onward until the ending. <br />For those who haven't read Edward Lee, I would state that this isn't what I have atypically found him producing. There were a few lightweight murders that coated the pages in red, but most of the book is about the mysterious things going on and the subsequent chase leading to the end of the extraterrestrial rainbow. Still, I wouldn't expect all of his books to approach life this way and would recommend looking into each of them individually for content before thinking that he is a lightweight in the gore department. For those who have read Lee and like his style, I thought that the little barbs of humor and the approach were here, and that this was a worthy read in the realms that have, in the past, disappointed me. You simply have to be in the mood for the subject matter because, unlike many of his more terrestrial horrors, this ranges in the Science Fiction category to me.	2003-03-02
US	37053389	R2KY6RC6LMZDT9	0943151090	76996071	Something At The Window Is Scratching	Books	4	6	7	N	N	"This stuff just comes to you, huh?" - quoting Roman's Dad	Roman Dirge's take on the childhood aspects are wonderful, especially when you filter into that account the entirety of his body of work. From Lenore, Monsters in My Tummy, and The Cat with a Really Big Head, and One Other Story that Isn't that Good, there is a scope that hits on what many of the imaginative creators in the past had sculpted while adding in his own thoughts and perspectives. Some range in the realms of the silly, some are smothered in darker aspects, and some are just plain twisted. In a sense that pleases this reader, it makes them all worthwhile reading.<br />Within Something at the Window is Scratching, forwarded by Jhonen Vasquez, we find twenty pieces of poetry forming \\"Children's tales fro disturbed children,\\" as the front of the book calls them. Some are just that, too, dealing with everything from the silliest of notions in \\"Devil bunny\\" to more darkened aspects of demise in \\"the coo coo lady.\\" While the continuity isn't always there and some of the pieces didn't interest me, the ones that did with their slightly disturbed Shel Silversteinesque rhyming methodology made me laugh and made the buy worthwhile. Also included in the book is a little game that Dirge wants you to play called find the piggies, where Dirge has drawn, you guessed it, little piggies into the backgrounds of some of his illustrations. Why would he do this? As he say, \\"I don't know.\\" Still, it was fun for some reason that I cannot put my finger on.<br />If you've yet to check out Roman's work, perhaps you should start with Lenore and then work you way in. You can begin here if you wish because it is good stuff, but there are a few pieces that might make a lasting impression in one of Lenore's two Trade Paperbacks. Still, for even the casual fan of childhood madness, this is a nice piece to take home to your mother.	2003-02-04
US	37053389	R1C25IKB4082FT	1889186252	15727798	Dead Cats Bouncing	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Eat Sand, and Other Dead Cat Sensations	When I purchased Dead Cats Bouncing, I wasn't sure what to expect from the onslaught of talented, if somewhat depraved, mentalities communing inside this work. I somewhat expected a book of horrific tale exclaiming the high points of depravity, reflecting what I had tasted before from the likes of Edward Lee and Jack Ketchum in the past. So, it came as quite a surprise to find that this weren't horror stories at all but were instead demented children's tales about a cat that had returned to the land of the living with a belly full of love/or hate-depending on whose recount of the experience you read. Better yet, all of these are numbered and signed by all the contributing authors, something I missed out on when reading the books description, including the likes of: Gerard Houarner, Charlee Jacob, Jack Ketchum, Edward Lee, Tom Piccirilli, Linda Addison, John Skipp, Yvonne Navarro, Terry McGarry, Paul Di Filippo, Charlee Jacob, David Niall Wilson, Gene O'Neil, Brain Keene, Mick Farren, and Gak.<br />The premise of these tale, forged by Gak and Houarner as they sought and almost captured a Stoker Award, focuses on the exploits of Dead Cat, who was a sacrifice to the goddess Bastet and finds that being in the land of the dead is quite boring. There are no happy hunting grounds filled with birds or mice, no naps and dreams of bliss, or any of the other things that a cat needs to enjoy themselves when finding oneself outside the land of the livelihood. In fact, all Bastet tells him to do is, \\"eat sand.\\" So, what's a cat to do when confronted with a dilemma like this? Why, return to the land of the living without becoming alive, of course! Most of these portraits of the Dead Cat's \\"life\\" are written in choppy sentences, focusing themselves from the thoughts of Dead Cat himself and not in the narration aspect of storytelling, with a few of the writers deviating from that course. At first I found this practice somewhat questionable, but I soon overcame this initial hesitation and found the style enjoyable and, in many instances, funny. This came as quite a surprise, too, because I never thought of many of these writers in the comedic sense before reading DCB.<br />This isn't to say that the book is a challenging read, because that is far from the case. I found myself finishing it within an hour, covering the two-hundred plus pages of large print in what amounted to no time at all and longing for more. Still, the captivating prospects of a cat that evades death for no other reason than boredom is something worthwhile and deserving of a look, especially if you want to see writers in a different light. Recommended for the oddities, young and old (with attention paid to the profane, of course)!n and found the style enjoyable and, in many instances, funny. This came as quite a surprise, too, because I never thought of many of these writers in the comedic sense before reading DCB.<br />This isn't to say that the book is a challenging read, because that is far from the case. I found myself finishing it within an hour, covering the two-hundred plus pages of large print in what amounted to no time at all and longing for more. Still, the captivating prospects of a cat that evades death for no other reason than boredom is something worthwhile and deserving of a look, especially if you want to see writers in a different light. Recommended for the oddities, young and old (with attention paid to the profane, of course)!	2003-02-04
US	37053389	R34A6W832WXBKQ	0943151163	286266564	Johnny The Homicidal Maniac: Director's Cut	Books	5	43	46	N	N	"It Changes Color When It Dries! I Have to Keep It Wet!"	Johnny is the figure that skulks through the back alleys of society, always deemed as meriting the unfurled fingers of the \\"in\\" crowds as laughter rolls from their robust mouths or as they jeer and taunt with groups of their friends in tow. This is because he always seems to be different, existing on the fringes of a society he doesn't mingle into very well, therefore making him the perfect target for the mockery of others. Still, mocking people is not always the best solution when soliciting that quick burst of enjoyment, especially when the individual happens to be a homicidal maniac that, amongst other things, is consumed with keeping a certain wall in his home painted with blood because it can never be allowed to dry - and with good reason. This isn't the only thing reason that he does the things he does, mind you, because he sometimes revels in the simple interactions and subsequent torment of those that he deems worthy of his loathing, grouping everyone from rude diners to door-to-door surveyors in the happy little subclass we like to call the despised.<br />On certain levels, it would appear that Johnny the Homicidal Maniac is nothing more than a montage of slaughter wearing a sheepish disguise, reveling in the primordial stew of emotions forged from suffering and lashing out at the elements that cause this inner turmoil. This, however, is far from the case because it contains many elements that, while not exactly inflating the bruised mentality of portions of a world that possibly merits scarring, work as a finger to point out these transgressions. It also shows another side to the combatant within this maelstrom as he tries to comprehend his place within the deeds that seem to rain blood, making him wonder why he seems possessed by such needs and why he can't get caught doing these things no matter how hard he tries. This leads him into the gates of heaven and into the depths of hell, with one question posed on his lips, \\"Why?\\"<br />Joined by a dysfunctional cast of figures that include his ex-pet, now severed head Nail Bunny (you can sort that one out for yourself), Mr. Eff and Psycho-Doughboy (both doughboys that have some very questionable influences about them and some wonderful explicits painted on them), Squee - the little tormented boy that lives next door to Johnny, Devi - the one person to get away from him and to steal his heart in the process, God, and the Devil, you find yourself meshing a variety of thoughts and themes into something quite prolific. In fact, Johnny's search for inner-contentment and understanding of his role in the scheme of things wind down some harrowing roads that pit comedy and the doom of many a person hand in hand with social commentary to question and spit on the sensibilities of the masses. For that reason and because of his frequent tantrums that end in the greatest of fashions, this is merrily Recommended!!!l cast of figures that include his ex-pet, now severed head Nail Bunny (you can sort that one out for yourself), Mr. Eff and Psycho-Doughboy (both doughboys that have some very questionable influences about them and some wonderful explicits painted on them), Squee - the little tormented boy that lives next door to Johnny, Devi - the one person to get away from him and to steal his heart in the process, God, and the Devil, you find yourself meshing a variety of thoughts and themes into something quite prolific. In fact, Johnny's search for inner-contentment and understanding of his role in the scheme of things wind down some harrowing roads that pit comedy and the doom of many a person hand in hand with social commentary to question and spit on the sensibilities of the masses. For that reason and because of his frequent tantrums that end in the greatest of fashions, this is merrily Recommended!!!	2003-01-31
US	37053389	RYVTWC6ZX441R	0375404538	712745860	Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth	Books	5	20	32	N	N	The Awkward Child Within Us All	Understanding the portions that craft an individual are difficult, and harder still when the life fabricated within the tale is woven from the understandable cloth of sadness and feelings of perpetual loneliness. Still, that is what author Chris Ware painstakingly paints a portrait of for his readers, showing them the dysfunctions of life and the mounting sorrows it breeds through the eyes of Jimmy Corrigan; The Smartest 36-year-old Kid on Earth. Interestingly enough, the intentions of the story weren't that all that grandiose at first but that they would, according to the author &quot;hopefully provide a semi-autobiographical in which (he) could work out some of the more embarrassing problems of confidence and emotional truthfulness&quot; he was experiencing at the time. Still, five years later, the story took a turn that mimicked his own life when, out of the proverbial blue, he received a call from a father he didn't know; something that can be seen in Jimmy's life as well.<br />So, what's to tell in a life that could seem so ordinarily mundane that it is almost always overlooked by a world that seems to set pace against it? Well, the little ins-and-outs of the thought process that inflict someone from the childhood meeting of their then superhero idol and their mother's infectious hostility turn love-affair with said icon, for starters. There are the little turmoils inflicting a young mind, as he is groomed into a man dependent on his mother as he cultivated into a nervous shell of a man, not hanging onto, but hung by, apron strings that have never let go. It also showcases other affairs, like the redundancy of a workplace in which he yearns to know love and is bitterly rejected by the person he finds himself infatuated with, and then takes a turn of its own as Jimmy's father calls him and wants to see him again.<br />This is where we find Jimmy walking through the motions of awkwardness as he finds himself thrust into the lives of people he doesn't know, people that seem to superficially want to know him, as they go through their day-to-day interactions with a world that seems foreign to him. Within these moments you can see Ware's understanding of the silence booming through those clumsy moments that fall like snowflakes on an already whitened world, and we also see the way Jimmy's mind works, vividly depicting the world of surmounting woes that could come at every turn.<br />While here, the gaze also focuses upon other portions of the Corrigan family as well; looking into his father's life and his father's before him, showing you the emotional transgressions of a family that seems plagued by the inability to either love or to express the love they feel. Within these lives there is also the stumbling of feet and the horrors of life's shadowy moments, telling us that Jimmy isn't alone in these times of turbulence. Instead, he is one of many that suffer the awkward arrows that are fired by a world revolving on a seemingly compassionate axis.<br />In many ways I found the intoxication that Jimmy's mindset allowed him, those birthed by the plateaus of an almost youthful puritanicalness, to be a harrowing yet wonderful tale because, in a sense, I think everyone has known a time when a Corrigan has walked within their shoes. Added to this is the convection of thoughts that are bestowed upon the reader through sometimes prose-like statements that hit like hammers and that sometimes simply punctuate the worlds captured in the illustrations surrounding them, bringing out both the hopes and dreams that are sometimes hidden from everyone save the thinker. To me, this helped portray something fruitful in a book I had first beheld with skeptical glances and would now recommend highly to those looking for something that studies a little plateau called &quot;the past&quot; that is harbored in each and every one of us.e that seem to superficially want to know him, as they go through their day-to-day interactions with a world that seems foreign to him. Within these moments you can see Ware's understanding of the silence booming through those clumsy moments that fall like snowflakes on an already whitened world, and we also see the way Jimmy's mind works, vividly depicting the world of surmounting woes that could come at every turn.<BR>While here, the gaze also focuses upon other portions of the Corrigan family as well; looking into his father's life and his father's before him, showing you the emotional transgressions of a family that seems plagued by the inability to either love or to express the love they feel. Within these lives there is also the stumbling of feet and the horrors of life's shadowy moments, telling us that Jimmy isn't alone in these times of turbulence. Instead, he is one of many that suffer the awkward arrows that are fired by a world revolving on a seemingly compassionate axis.<br />In many ways I found the intoxication that Jimmy's mindset allowed him, those birthed by the plateaus of an almost youthful puritanicalness, to be a harrowing yet wonderful tale because, in a sense, I think everyone has known a time when a Corrigan has walked within their shoes. Added to this is the convection of thoughts that are bestowed upon the reader through sometimes prose-like statements that hit like hammers and that sometimes simply punctuate the worlds captured in the illustrations surrounding them, bringing out both the hopes and dreams that are sometimes hidden from everyone save the thinker. To me, this helped portray something fruitful in a book I had first beheld with skeptical glances and would now recommend highly to those looking for something that studies a little plateau called &quot;the past&quot; that is harbored in each and every one of us.	2003-01-31
US	37053389	R3NJ727RRVM1WD	0843950404	759078711	Red	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Tragedy: Man's Best Friend	Avery Allan Ludlow is a man haunted by the siren songs existing within the fond recollections of the past, with his time spent dwelling upon the threshold of a world in which he now almost totally alone. His only surviving companion, a 14 year-old dog aptly titled Red by his deceased beloved, has become family to him during these trying times, leaving him attached to a life that would have otherwise consumed him within swells of tumultuously horrific &quot;long agos.&quot; For that Av is thankful and finds himself seemingly loving this dog just as much as he does his own father.<br />In the blink of an eye everything can change and Avery knows that well, for he has had the misfortune of watching the house of cards called happiness crumble again and again. Still, he doesn't seem to think of the dreadful concoctions that can be birthed simply by being at the wrong fishing spot at the wrong time. In fact, everything seems to be going fairly well for him on that fateful day as he approaches his three-catch limit - until those three boys and their shotgun comes along. Then, a lifelong friend is gone in what can only be described as a purely malicious act perpetrated without the benefit of rhyme or reason. This sets Avery into a plan of action, him simply demanding that tiny taste of justice that seems to elude him at every corner, making him wonder if anything can be done within and perhaps outside the law.<br />While a fairly short read that clocks in at only 211 pages (there is another story in addition to Red in the book adding an additional 93 pages), the description that Ketchum manages to coat page after page with is quite simply phenomenal. Although not particularly a gruesome piece, it nonetheless touches on many issues including that of what defines family, the psychological torment of how loss feels and how one copes with it, and the sway of class warfare in the life of the common man. Here, the detailing is superb and the empathy one feels for Avery as he progresses through hoop after hoop is a little frightening because the hatred within him is understandable and, to an extent, condoned as his need for payback becomes greater and greater. To me, this seems to be one of the writer's talents, capturing the emotional spectrum dashing madly through the thinker's mind while life around them is still progressing and the little things weigh in on the events outside the character's control.<br />As included in the book is the short story, The Passenger, which focuses on the dilemmas of Janet Morris, lawyer and driver of a Taurus, as she finds herself broken down on the road and in need of aid. Luckily for her an old highschool acquaintance was passing through by the name of Marion Lane. Unluckily for her, however, is the fact that the events of the night are just beginning.<br />The Passenger was a faster-paced ride than Red but was, in some ways, flawed as it journeyed through its rather fragile storyline. The description was there and the character's torment was there as well, but the ending to the story was a bit far-flung and sketchy for my tastes. Still, I didn't fault the book for this because, quite simply, I didn't buy the book for anything but Red and was pleased with the way it played out.<br />For someone looking for a nice mystery that borders on a bit of suspense/horror, then I would recommend Red with one notation. It really isn't frightening and it really isn't graphic, so don't expect the horror aspect to shine. Instead, expect something that portrays the issuance of pain and a seemingly real man's reaction to it and you'll not be disappointed.ogresses through hoop after hoop is a little frightening because the hatred within him is understandable and, to an extent, condoned as his need for payback becomes greater and greater. To me, this seems to be one of the writer's talents, capturing the emotional spectrum dashing madly through the thinker's mind while life around them is still progressing and the little things weigh in on the events outside the character's control. <br />As included in the book is the short story, The Passenger, which focuses on the dilemmas of Janet Morris, lawyer and driver of a Taurus, as she finds herself broken down on the road and in need of aid. Luckily for her an old highschool acquaintance was passing through by the name of Marion Lane. Unluckily for her, however, is the fact that the events of the night are just beginning. <br />The Passenger was a faster-paced ride than Red but was, in some ways, flawed as it journeyed through its rather fragile storyline. The description was there and the character's torment was there as well, but the ending to the story was a bit far-flung and sketchy for my tastes. Still, I didn't fault the book for this because, quite simply, I didn't buy the book for anything but Red and was pleased with the way it played out.<br />For someone looking for a nice mystery that borders on a bit of suspense/horror, then I would recommend Red with one notation. It really isn't frightening and it really isn't graphic, so don't expect the horror aspect to shine. Instead, expect something that portrays the issuance of pain and a seemingly real man's reaction to it and you'll not be disappointed.	2003-01-29
US	37053389	R13UITN6MPQCBK	1569317879	48207630	Orochi: Blood	Books	5	11	17	N	N	The Roles Cast By Fate	Younger siblings sometimes find themselves overshadowed by their elder's accomplishments, much to their perpetual dismay. Still, sometimes the role cast is that of an inferior and one must accept the fact that their deeds will not shine as brightly as those that came before. For Lisa, however, its something altogether different, reaching depths of woe that few youths could conceive. No matter what she does, her sister Kazusa has done it better in numerously impressive ways. Whether its lessons in school, the playing of a piano, or ever the growth of flowers in a garden just for fun, Lisa is always told that she'll never be comparable to her sister. Even her footsteps are louder than those of her, and her abusively matriarchal family points that out to her time and again. So, as she grows she learns to hate and sometimes to lash out at a sister she's loved, wanting nothing more than to escape.<br />Escape is sometimes a fleeting thought, however, and fate, she intervenes in the oddest of fashions. The methods used come like cruel barbs, furthering the intrigues that fill minds already fueled by loathing of the most insidious kind. Still, to understand this mindset as an observer is divine and diviner still when the account plays out before our eyes. That's where the outside spectator of the two sisters, Orochi, comes into play. Through her we see the sisters and they grow into the beasts that time has moulded, leading the pondering mind to something unpredictable - to say the least.<br />Within the arena of unsettling Japanese horror, Kazuo Umezu is something of a legend. His works, fueled by character-driven plots that sink deeper and deeper into the realms of the distraught, capture many subtleties that other artists in the genre lack, making his something of an enigma to the artform. Such is the case with Orochi Blood, where the horror is in the finality of the story and the movement toward it, while sometimes slow-going because of the induction of oddities into the loop and because of a sequential ordering that makes you think, is ultimately rewarding. Here, watching the plights of Lisa play out as she finds herself engulfed in her elder sister's shadow is sad in its own right, but sadder still is the developments that this brings about. To me, the understanding therein, the reasoning behind why the horrible can be committed, is just as important as the deed itself.<br />If you are excepting something ethereal to impede upon the natural order of law like is often showcased in these types of tales, then perhaps you should rethink your purchase. This is powered by the persuasions of people, the horror that comes from existence, and the need to find yourself standing upon a plateau all your own. It works in subtle ways sometimes, keeping those who need an immediate fix sometimes shaking their heads in disbelief while proclaiming how bad the conceptual work is. Still, if you can work within those parameters, keeping the textures of neglect and revenge as bedfellows in your sadistic need to understand, then I would recommend Orochi Blood.the loop and because of a sequential ordering that makes you think, is ultimately rewarding. Here, watching the plights of Lisa play out as she finds herself engulfed in her elder sister's shadow is sad in its own right, but sadder still is the developments that this brings about. To me, the understanding therein, the reasoning behind why the horrible can be committed, is just as important as the deed itself.<br />If you are excepting something ethereal to impede upon the natural order of law like is often showcased in these types of tales, then perhaps you should rethink your purchase. This is powered by the persuasions of people, the horror that comes from existence, and the need to find yourself standing upon a plateau all your own. It works in subtle ways sometimes, keeping those who need an immediate fix sometimes shaking their heads in disbelief while proclaiming how bad the conceptual work is. Still, if you can work within those parameters, keeping the textures of neglect and revenge as bedfellows in your sadistic need to understand, then I would recommend Orochi Blood.	2003-01-26
US	37053389	R1TYBSGZEHAK8B	1569712735	748275138	Ghost/Hellboy Special	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of My Top Ten Reasons to Avoid Falling Through Walls	In 1939, Arcadia bore witness to a murder carried out by a crimeboss and his pet ax because of pilferage form his almighty coffers. The only problem was that death didn't stop poor Vinnie from mocking the \\"boss,\\" and his laughter echoed on even past the thresholds of demise. To help remedy this little predicament, the \\"boss\\" enlisted the aid of a Dr. Herbert Izzo to make it stop. Well, after Herbert's job was done in a most Lovecraftian fashion, he was repaid in the most special of ways, joining the man he could still hear laughing inside a brick-and-mortar encased tomb left inside an apartment building. Fast forward to the present, where Hellboy investigates the presence of ex-reporter turned vengeful spirit, Elisa Cameron, and the two stumble on this scene of the past that has never been laid to rest. And that's when the oddities that only Mike Mignola can create are truly brought spectacularly to the surface, meshing the woes of Hellboy with the plight of the Ghost in memorable fashion.<br />Returning to his Arcadian home away from home, Mike Mignola paints something that his Will to Power days could never conceive; a portrait of Hellboy spawned perfection in the minimalist light and shadow play that soaks all of his Hellboy projects in both art and story. Originally a two comic series, it has the luxury of not continuing on too long or ending too soon, giving you something that is memorable because of the mind behind it and because of the way its presented by his support cast.<br />Yes, Hellboy and the hand are back for a nice one-two you wouldn't want to miss. For older fans, its something worth embracing and for newer readers its a good read after starting in the collected Hellboy TPB sagas.	2003-01-13
US	37053389	R17CKZGU75QLCU	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	5	12	19	N	N	The Contemporary Killer's Calling Card	Possessed by the American Dream described to denizens of the 1980s, Patrick Bateman looks and acts the potentially powerful part that everyone seems to want. Showcasing himself as an almost perfect member of the human species possessed by intellect and a higher class superiority, he lives the part of the showman and many a person seems to buy into this presentation. And what's not to like, really, about a member of the upper echelon of society with power, money, and a keen understanding of how the inner workings of the fraternally upper-class pecking order at his disposal? Besides, he is predisposed when it comes to echoing the sentimentality of success; owning the perfect ensemble, working out to fine-tune the garb underneath those wrappings, and taking great care to ward off blemishes that would others attempt to assail his skin and hair. On top of that he owns a seemingly grandiose apartment, a vast array of electronics that would cost a small fortune, and is fully equipped to feast on the entertainment of the time - especially in the realm of music. On top of that, he also understands the ins and outs of wining and dining, partying and the prospective drug use that seems to follow closely in suit, and how to use the vacancies existing within others to benefit himself and further his own needs. And then there's his other hobbies...<br />In crafting a perfectly hollow vessel that seems devoid of feeling compassion or the press of morality, I feel that Bret Easton Ellis has outdone himself with Patrick Bateman. Not only has he created a satirical approach that is submerged in some of the more brutal slayers to grace the mainstreamed pages of a book in quite some time, but he's also managed to do so with a character that is repulsive in his desires to excel and to mutilate and yet is so embraceable in many other rights. For instance, the wit that Patrick Bateman uses when interacting with the interchangeable characters existing around him is flawlessly cruel and biting, filled with tiny fishhooks that hold the attention of the readers and that slice away at the people around him. He also makes no secret of his disdain for certain things like dogs, the homeless, and the incessant whimpering of the woman he professes to love, and he finds himself lashing out at those in ways that are both creative and alarming. O, and there's that little pastime he likes the indulge in...<br />At first the book starts out with a slower tempo, introducing its reader to the concepts that rule the lives of Bateman and his friends. Only a trickle of the thoughts he inwardly masks come through in the beginning, leading you to believe that there might be an inkling of subtly in the approach he takes when unleashing the beast inside. That thought dissipates quickly, however, and the pages are slowly overcome with blood that seeps from the gaping wounds existing between the prospective highs, sex, and power fetishes that Bateman keeps close at hand. In many ways this accents the character well, showing the extremes that exist within a mind degenerating slowly, and in many ways it poses questions about the degeneration already festering within this fleshly puzzle. This, at least to me, is something seen as essential in painting a vivid portrayal of the man with a monster inside.<br />If you haven't yet looked into this book and don't mind getting your feet a little wet within the muck and mire of some gruesomely graphic murders, then this is something worthy of your time. It will approach you like a hammer in many rights, though, while letting you see its subtle sides and the obsessiveness of the character in others, giving you more than the simply slaughter that many novels seem to focus their time on.<br />TBS-MSLing, filled with tiny fishhooks that hold the attention of the readers and that slice away at the people around him. He also makes no secret of his disdain for certain things like dogs, the homeless, and the incessant whimpering of the woman he professes to love, and he finds himself lashing out at those in ways that are both creative and alarming. O, and there's that little pastime he likes the indulge in...<br />At first the book starts out with a slower tempo, introducing its reader to the concepts that rule the lives of Bateman and his friends. Only a trickle of the thoughts he inwardly masks come through in the beginning, leading you to believe that there might be an inkling of subtly in the approach he takes when unleashing the beast inside. That thought dissipates quickly, however, and the pages are slowly overcome with blood that seeps from the gaping wounds existing between the prospective highs, sex, and power fetishes that Bateman keeps close at hand. In many ways this accents the character well, showing the extremes that exist within a mind degenerating slowly, and in many ways it poses questions about the degeneration already festering within this fleshly puzzle. This, at least to me, is something seen as essential in painting a vivid portrayal of the man with a monster inside.<br />If you haven't yet looked into this book and don't mind getting your feet a little wet within the muck and mire of some gruesomely graphic murders, then this is something worthy of your time. It will approach you like a hammer in many rights, though, while letting you see its subtle sides and the obsessiveness of the character in others, giving you more than the simply slaughter that many novels seem to focus their time on. <br />TBS-MSL	2003-01-11
US	37053389	R20X3GLMXYBV6S	093948210X	755354949	The Antichrist	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Fragmenting the Lore of Ages	Before I begin, I would like to note that this review isn't meant to be something that focuses the wandering eye on the thoughts of many and many a philosophy class and its deductions. Instead, this is meant as a briefly conceived, introspective look into a work that I've had the pleasure of reading and am recommending to others in addition to earlier works that Nietzsche wrote. To me, it seems that people lose sight of the work itself in the dissection of the author and all the hidden connotations that are perhaps manifest within his works, and I hope that my commentary is received as something quickened by a different train-of-thought.<br />Frederick Nietzsche the philosopher and his little known cohort, Frederick Nietzsche the comedian, seem to work hand in hand very well in most of his works and especially in his earlier editions, providing ideas that seem stunning in many rights because of the timeframe they were written within and because of the subject matters they wished to assail. Biting with dry snippets of wit and underlying humor, not to mention a perspective that was especially unique at the turn of the 20th century, Nietzsche managed to find himself ignored by many theologians in his own time only to be deservedly uplifted in later decades because of his keen insights into matters that people would rather have ignored. This fact is evident each and every time one reads how he wantonly flaunted his beliefs in front of an audience, pointing out the inherent flaws in the belief system that he perceived as a waste of time and in the ideological principles that find themselves within his philosophical crosshairs.<br />Nietzsche the comedian took a backseat in this work, however, as he found himself focused upon something that filled his words with a seething, almost venomous, revile; that of a religious system he saw as corruptly based in both principle and in prophecy, unworthy of redemption in the thinking man's world. Still, as is oftentimes overlooked in many this work, it is the delivery system that the church itself adopted to further these trains of thought that is actually the vessel under assault here and not simply the philosophy itself, a fact denoted in a most scathing manner that takes ideas he presented in earlier volumes and furthering them. His commentary on men of the garb and on the ideals of \\"sin\\" and \\"forgiveness\\" support that assumption well, as do many other items covered herein, building a basis for the stones he casts with utter contempt again and again.<br />It is also mistakenly understood by many a person that Nietzsche himself was against the teachings of the Christ figure when, in fact, he seemed to fill certain points of the book with reverence for Christ, citing him as someone that would have been a challenge to debate with because only Christ would have been able to defend his words. It was the term Christian that he seemed to deplore and the church that was built upon its shoreline, attacking Paul and the foundations of the monolith beast as well as its hypocritical understanding of the unknown and the fear used to further it.<br />This is not to say that the book is without its flaws, because it is. There are statements that generalize and there are phrases that defame, but these are only portions of the piece and not the overall effect itself. This is also an angrier edition that is more straightforward and less of a work of prose, choosing to instead embrace the approach of a hammer and not as a dance of syllables. Personally I find that interesting, seeing the things that he had thought groundbreaking in their own right because they shed the fear of the metaphysical and the hatred harbored for anyone that spoke out against these things, holding up little tidbits of his life and his personal perceptions within them before a nation of naysayers. For this reason, I recommend this book as something to look into and enjoy, reading it only after other books have been first checked out.in many this work, it is the delivery system that the church itself adopted to further these trains of thought that is actually the vessel under assault here and not simply the philosophy itself, a fact denoted in a most scathing manner that takes ideas he presented in earlier volumes and furthering them. His commentary on men of the garb and on the ideals of \\"sin\\" and \\"forgiveness\\" support that assumption well, as do many other items covered herein, building a basis for the stones he casts with utter contempt again and again.<br />It is also mistakenly understood by many a person that Nietzsche himself was against the teachings of the Christ figure when, in fact, he seemed to fill certain points of the book with reverence for Christ, citing him as someone that would have been a challenge to debate with because only Christ would have been able to defend his words. It was the term Christian that he seemed to deplore and the church that was built upon its shoreline, attacking Paul and the foundations of the monolith beast as well as its hypocritical understanding of the unknown and the fear used to further it. <br />This is not to say that the book is without its flaws, because it is. There are statements that generalize and there are phrases that defame, but these are only portions of the piece and not the overall effect itself. This is also an angrier edition that is more straightforward and less of a work of prose, choosing to instead embrace the approach of a hammer and not as a dance of syllables. Personally I find that interesting, seeing the things that he had thought groundbreaking in their own right because they shed the fear of the metaphysical and the hatred harbored for anyone that spoke out against these things, holding up little tidbits of his life and his personal perceptions within them before a nation of naysayers. For this reason, I recommend this book as something to look into and enjoy, reading it only after other books have been first checked out.	2003-01-10
US	37053389	R3PBA41OTRJGUE	0744001080	441300588	Silent Hill 2 Official Strategy Guide (Brady Games)	Books	5	14	21	N	N	Content Inclusive but Use Intrusive	Please note that the five stars are for the content of the strategy guide only because, regardless of what people have to say on the subject, this strategy guide isn't needed as you wander the misty realms of Silent Hill in search of Mary and that &quot;special place&quot; you long to return to. In fact, it is simply a way to slight yourself and the gaming experience that you've no doubt gone out of your way to acquire. This isn't to say that it isn't useful if you feel hard-pressed and left without options and it also isn't meant to imply that it doesn't include everything one needs to take a walk through James Sutherland's life. In fact, this is quite the contrary, saying that everything is here. I've compared its content to that I've found elsewhere after I used it on my third run through the Hill and it was it was quite inclusive. That, however, is the problem if your only wanting a casual playing experience, because once you've done something you've done it and you can't repeat it. Reading a &quot;how to&quot; isn't always the best way to find out these little tidbits of gameplay.<br />Instead, one needs only to take their time and look around in their first outing, remembering that something is potentially an item or a place to go and that ever scrap of paper is a clue. It also should be taken into account that searching is needed, and that all enemies are defeatable, and that there are multiple endings based on time used, difficulty, on the items found, and the number of beasts killed. Since this takes multiple tries anyhow, one can find these out without the use of a visual aid.	2003-01-05
US	37053389	RDRC4EXCKQSHT	B000031EG7	358424115	Ninja Resurrection	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Deliverer or A Destroyer?	Going against the grain, I'll say that Ninja Resurrection (not a Ninja Scroll sequel - as many have pointed out - and not meant to be) was an entertaining look into very loosely translated Japanese culture that has been dashed with other influences as well. Still, this seems to be what bothers many people about it, the fact that a movie might take liberties with handed down legends, salting them with concepts that also involve other esoteric entities while birthing its own tales of a Christlike figure not fulfilling his destiny and being reborn as the son of the devil. I, however, have no such qualms with these types of ideas taking place, in fact encouraging creativity in such matters, nor do I have a problem with the violence that saturated much of the bloodstained movie. So, I accordingly found the movie appealing. Abruptly ended when things were at their worst, mind you, but nice to watch.<br />The two parts included on this films were not, in fact, that bad at all despite the little \\"speedbumps\\" in the plot that oftentimes do manifest themselves. The first, dealing with an insurrection taking place at the hands of some Japanese Christian Farmers, focuses on a legend that had been past down about one that would come as a deliverer. Still, the message goes on to warn that if his destiny should be blocked and this person weren't allowed to become Christ, he would return as the son of Satan. At a young age a few events transpire to seemingly show who this great deliverer will be and, through the struggles of the greatly outnumbered souls that decide to follow him, a wheel is set into motion, one greased with the manipulation and intrigue, that means to test these words fully.<br />The second is the culmination of ideas birthed in the first, feeding off of the characters and adding to them, bringing about some additional plot twists in the process. This has some exceptionally strange ideas that are forced into play, asking one to pay attention in order to catch all of the intrigue being birthed. It does have its problems here, however, leaving openings that should have been plugged and ending too soon before anything can be solved, but its still not bad.<br />If you are looking for another Ninja Scroll, this isn't your film. If you want something without any violence, a traditional piece, or something bulging with new forms of animation, then perhaps you should avoid it. Still, if you want something different and, above all, a bloody type ofentertaining, you might want to check this out. Just be expected to be left hanging at the end.l of the intrigue being birthed. It does have its problems here, however, leaving openings that should have been plugged and ending too soon before anything can be solved, but its still not bad.<br />If you are looking for another Ninja Scroll, this isn't your film. If you want something without any violence, a traditional piece, or something bulging with new forms of animation, then perhaps you should avoid it. Still, if you want something different and, above all, a bloody type ofentertaining, you might want to check this out. Just be expected to be left hanging at the end.	2002-12-22
US	37053389	R2YTQORX4ILKZM	1582402434	398050398	Obergeist: The Directors Cut	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Redemption and Manipulation, The Baiting of a Wayward Soul	Can a person seeking forgiveness for his crimes, even those monstrous and inconceivable, be forgiven when he sees the error of his ways and tries to repent? Can the end of humanity be averted by one forgotten soul that has been influenced by the messiah and two angels, wanting nothing more than to arise from a mass grave he found himself sharing and atone for his transgressions? Will the future and the past seem like distant reflections in the same mirror, mingling the same mistakes with future ones in a stew that tastes remarkably the same? And, can a disembodied brain exist in a metal skin and still be treated with dignity by the horrible ranks of humanity? Well, all these questions and more are addressed within Obergeist, The Director's Cut.<br />The story herein revolves around one Dr. Steinholtz ,a German scientist working under the direction of Josef Mingele, as he tries to develop soldiers with mental telepathy for the Nazis and subsequently discovers what sort of a demon he really is. Horrified by this discovery, he pleads for these works to be halted, knowing now that all the things he had done in the past were wrong. Thus, he accordingly finds himself buried with his victims, dead and yet not gone, hearing their voices for years on end as they call out for revenge against the man that had done this to them. After countless years, something changes and he finds himself able to move, digging himself free and finding himself caught up in plans that are bigger than ever he expects, ones that will shape the future of the world within reflections of the past.<br />Although it floundered a bit in parts, Obergeist nonetheless possessed a well-conceived storyline that had fun with itself while dealing with some serious issues, actually managing to surprised me in parts because of its character depth and the point that it tries to make. In it, there were portions of prethought that were richly seeded, those that come back and surprise the reader in the end, making it worthwhile reading because of its multifaceted approach. I especially enjoyed the development of the Steinholtz himself, dealing with such a notorious subject by showing you not only his deeds as a Nazi but also those that motivated him to become the thing he wants so desperately to change.t worthwhile reading because of its multifaceted approach. I especially enjoyed the development of the Steinholtz himself, dealing with such a notorious subject by showing you not only his deeds as a Nazi but also those that motivated him to become the thing he wants so desperately to change.	2002-12-15
US	37053389	R1PE6PXUV0D7TI	1588990842	182978798	Tomie, Volume 1	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Love and the Little Pieces It Often Leaves Behind	Welcome to the world of Jinji Ito, where horrors walk both rural and urban settings while plaguing humans in some of the most complexly perplexing tales I've seen. The reason for this is because his canvas is more than a meshing of words and pictures, offering instead a talent that knows how to illicit a shudder from its audience. Herein seems to be the secret to all truly great horror innovators, a mark that he seems to have found early in life. Tomie Vol. 1 is no exception to that rule, either, with imagery that is quite disturbing and ideas that are richly driven, taking one concept (that of Tomie) and twining it through several different pathways (throughout 6 tales that span 248 pages). Within these are richly developing ideas that mingle crucial elements within the main theme itself, with the characters playing as crucial a part in the habitual tingles that Ito's work summons as any other element. They always seem to have lives, feelings and motivations, wants and ambitions that drive them, making them more than simply characters fed to a paper world. Even the beast here, the beautiful destroyer perpetually working her way through nameless town after town, becomes less of a specter and more of an understandable nightmare as time goes on. Within familiarity, the specters of the mind truly run scared.<br />The premise of these stories revolves around Tomie, a beautiful young girl with a voracious appetite for consuming young men, who finds herself with a uniquely disturbing gift. She has the power to mesmerize, possessing the male soul utterly with less than even a glance, making them kill and die for her at a whim. This she uses to her advantage, picking up their spirits and smashing them against the jagged rocks she so cruelly manipulates. Unfortunately for her, these men all find themselves driven by a need to kill her as well, to hacking her into pieces with a madness even they find disturbing. Still, she has the ability to come back, each portion regenerating other Tomies that are just as beautiful and just as deadly, always unable to forgive the person that inflicted that painfully derived demise from.<br />If you've never had a chance to check out his works and you've the need to be disturbed by something, this is a good place to wet your feet. Then, after finding yourself hooked, you can continue to the second edition of Tomie, an even more disturbing creation, and then on into the lives of the unfortunates that Ito crafts in other tales.ng other Tomies that are just as beautiful and just as deadly, always unable to forgive the person that inflicted that painfully derived demise from. <br />If you've never had a chance to check out his works and you've the need to be disturbed by something, this is a good place to wet your feet. Then, after finding yourself hooked, you can continue to the second edition of Tomie, an even more disturbing creation, and then on into the lives of the unfortunates that Ito crafts in other tales.	2002-12-08
US	37053389	R12ITOI7KCPGZX	1588990869	644463323	Flesh Colored Horror	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Beauty and its Potential Consequences	Junji Ito's understanding of the mind-boggling dread that takes shape in a viewer's imagination, plus his insight into what words and images can be crafted to keep perennial wheels of dread rolling, is something that I, a fan with a horror-seasoned  find utterly amazing. Seeing something he crafts is like watching perfection being sculpted, perfection with the ability to bend the imagination like the wind bends so many reeds. Even in his earlier, more experimental works, you can see a masterpiece being shaped, a reflection that would later be completed in one of the greatest pieces of spine-tingling reading I ever happened across, Uzumaki. Within this collection are six stories that span seven years, all originally appearing in Monthly Magazine Halloween between the years 1988 and 1995.<br />Taking them from oldest to youngest, covering two in depth to give those unfamiliar with Ito a feeling of them, they are:<br />Long Hair In The Attic (1988) deals with a girl named Chiemi and the breakup she's finds herself suffering through plus the reprocussions it brings. Mortified by the revelations she's had in the last day, Chiemi decides once and for all that today is the day to do away with the long hair her boyfriend once coveted. Before she can do so, however, something gruesome happens and Chiemi's body is discovered, her head missing (and never recovered). Sometime later, as her sister is lying in her bed, she hears strange noises coming from the attic, noises that she tells herself have to be rats, only the noise being made sounds exactly like Chiemi when she used to grind her teeth at night. But what could it be? O, what could it be?<br />Approval (1991) is also a good one, dealing with a boy's love for a certain girl and a father that won't allow this to be. It doesn't seem to matter what he does or how often he visits, either. for her father never approves of him. After a time he finds out things that further infuriates him, making him want to seek vengeance, only convoluting the matter more and ultimately costing him in the worst of ways.<br />Dying Young (1991) is where the first threads of the spiral, of Uzumaki, can be seen manifesting. The story focuses upon a group of three girls, all considered ugly until, one day, one obegins to get pretty and people paying attention. She continues to get even lovelier, too, until she collapsed on the running track and died of a heart attack And this began something of an epidemic, all the pretty girls dying one by one, and rumors began to spread about how to stay alive. Some girls whisper things, rumors of the darkest proportions, stating that the only way to stay alive was to kill a girl your age on the third Friday of every month. Still, these were only rumors, right?<br />To note, the three pieces I chose to skip are: Beehive (1991), Headless Sculptures (1995) and Flesh-colored Horror (1994), all worthwhile reading and all terrifying in their own right. In fact, if you're a fan or if you are simply intrigued by the concept, then these, along with Uzumaki, are something I would highly recommend. Its horror at its finest.convoluting the matter more and ultimately costing him in the worst of ways. <br />Dying Young (1991) is where the first threads of the spiral, of Uzumaki, can be seen manifesting. The story focuses upon a group of three girls, all considered ugly until, one day, one obegins to get pretty and people paying attention. She continues to get even lovelier, too, until she collapsed on the running track and died of a heart attack And this began something of an epidemic, all the pretty girls dying one by one, and rumors began to spread about how to stay alive. Some girls whisper things, rumors of the darkest proportions, stating that the only way to stay alive was to kill a girl your age on the third Friday of every month. Still, these were only rumors, right? <br />To note, the three pieces I chose to skip are: Beehive (1991), Headless Sculptures (1995) and Flesh-colored Horror (1994), all worthwhile reading and all terrifying in their own right. In fact, if you're a fan or if you are simply intrigued by the concept, then these, along with Uzumaki, are something I would highly recommend. Its horror at its finest.	2002-12-06
US	37053389	R3EYKNX6OLSR3Q	0312876955	332093193	The Whisperer and Other Voices: Short Stories and a Novella	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Earplugs and Hedgeclippers, Essentials for Urban Survival	Within Brian Lumley's works is a certain something that oftentimes finds me late at night with my chin pressed to a book, a chill lapping the base of my spine, making me look over my shoulder and wonder because of his visions. Here I find my mind running rampant, dancing through gardens of strange delights that, if I'm luck, bring about some delicately crafted nightmares to lovingly caress me within my sleep. Its as if the words he crafts, working from some primal place that a reader can easily understand, can bring about feelings I had long considered dead and gone in my horror-hardened mind. This is something I find myself coveting more and more as the days press into years and time marches on.<br />In this installment of short stories, there are many notable pieces that include, among other things, a short novel dealing with some of my favorite Lovecraftian amphibians. There are also pieces here that found me laughing as well, picturing the dread of the characters as they learned valuable lessons on &quot;juju&quot; and the high cost of certain crimes, and pieces that make me remember why eating things I find outside is never a good idea.<br />Breaking some of these down, they are:<br />Snarker's Son, a tale involving an oddity at the police station and a policeman who is at first skeptical until being privy to a meeting of the &quot;tubers,&quot; ending the tale in something bloodily to my liking and always full of teeth.<br />Aunt Hester, brimming with Lovecraftian themes that also dart in their own morbid direct, deals with a woman that can, for some strange reason, switch bodies with her twin brother if she wants to. She finds it out quite by accident at first, doing things innocently and then out of anger. Well, this doesn't sit too well with him, and she learns, in a not-so-wonderful manner involving a very valuable life lesson, why she shouldn't play in grounds she's been told to leave alone. The ending to this piece is a very good one, taking the main plot and standing it on its proverbial ear a bit, giving the reader something that they can take with them anytime they find themselves in a dark, silent void within the night.<br />The Whisperer, perhaps one of my favorites in the book, finds a Mr. Miles Benton communing with a small, rancid dwarf on the train, one that happens to interact with him in the most terrible of fashions. This run-in, not a good one in many respects, is only the beginning of a long nightmare, one he thinks himself mad for dreaming. Again and again the dwarf appears, whispering in the ears of people with horrible repercussions for Mr. Benton in the process, ruining his life and his sanity in the process. So, is it a dream, is it a nightmare, is it Lumley selecting a main character to torment horribly before introducing him to the rubbery undertow of demise? Its a question you'll love yourself for answering.<br />The Statement of Henry Worthy, dealing with the dark side of botany, is about plants of unknown origin that are discovered by a Germanic explorer, Horst Graumer, before he disappears and the horrors that these things actually hide when another botanist decides to go looking for them. Deciding to voyage into a certain area of marshlands, he finds what he's looking for and more, falling into a cavern of perpetual horror in the process, his dreams meshing with a reality that worsens as the days press on. Here is a very Lovecraftian, very entertaining piece, teaching everyone that eating greens, contrary to what your mother may have said, can be a wretched ordeal!!<br />The Disapproval of Jeremy Cleave, one of the funnier pieces I've seen produced by Lumley, focuses on the fun one can have if he were to suddenly decide to partake in extracurricular activities with his best friend's wife while that best friend, in his grave in the queerest of circumstances, stretches his juju a bit. Of particular merit is the ending to this one, fueled by a delicious melody of horror and suffering, makingany fan smile with pride.<br />The Return of the Deep Ones, a story hitting novel lengths, touches upon those Lovecraftian tides and the dwellers that seem to always haunt them. After getting a conch from a certain Mr. Marsh of Innsmouth, our main character finds a change being thrust upon himself, one that spins and twists through oceans of plot and mini-stories, ultimately allowing him to press against that brick wall that all characters in stories really need to hit. While this is a bit older in the Lumley craft, it is still impressive and worth reading, letting those cute little men with the huge, unblinking eyes creep into your heart and make you yearn for the sea and immortality once more.<br />Excluded from description here are a few tales, No Sharks in the Med, Vanessa's Voice, and The Luststone, all worth of a synopsis in and of themselves but all finding and unwilling medium to do so at this time.<br />This, along with its companion piece Beneath the Moors, offers a wide variety of reading that don't really adhere to one way of recollecting the decrepit underbelly of living, making certain to entertain even the sloppiest of horror consumers. It makes me long for a house by the ocean, myself.ng any fan smile with pride.<br />The Return of the Deep Ones, a story hitting novel lengths, touches upon those Lovecraftian tides and the dwellers that seem to always haunt them. After getting a conch from a certain Mr. Marsh of Innsmouth, our main character finds a change being thrust upon himself, one that spins and twists through oceans of plot and mini-stories, ultimately allowing him to press against that brick wall that all characters in stories really need to hit. While this is a bit older in the Lumley craft, it is still impressive and worth reading, letting those cute little men with the huge, unblinking eyes creep into your heart and make you yearn for the sea and immortality once more.<br />Excluded from description here are a few tales, No Sharks in the Med, Vanessa's Voice, and The Luststone, all worth of a synopsis in and of themselves but all finding and unwilling medium to do so at this time.<br />This, along with its companion piece Beneath the Moors, offers a wide variety of reading that don't really adhere to one way of recollecting the decrepit underbelly of living, making certain to entertain even the sloppiest of horror consumers. It makes me long for a house by the ocean, myself.	2002-11-22
US	37053389	R27XE1MLDHBT3S	0312876947	780068420	Beneath the Moors and Darker Places	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Chaos and Crustaceans, What Lurks Beneath The Skin	Beneath the Moors and Other Places exhibits the plethora of talents that Brain Lumley, the personification of what a short story writer should be, brings with him, showcasing exactly why he is considered by some, myself included, as one of the best storytellers readers can have the been fortune of running across. Besides the fact that he can take anything that crosses his path, from the ordinary things strewn about your house, those microscopic worms that you studied in science classes, or that pesky outerworldly terror that your next-door neighbor seems to drag out on rain days, and make it frightful, he also has an inner eye for detail, one that allows him to convey surroundings with remarkable detail. This is easily seen any time he divests the surroundings of his newest horror, taking some blank canvas and giving contours and colorations most authors forget and making you, the immersed reader, actually feel its chest heaving life. Besides that, the detail within the inner workings of both the background and the characters themselves, the believability with which they are portrayed, is remarkable, making even the shortest of tales teem with a cast that you can actually feel suffering.<br />Within this collection itself are some highly notable pieces, including the much acclaimed Lovecraftian pieces Dagon's Bell, The Fairground Horror, the Rising of Surtsey, plus the short Novel, Beneath the Moors, and the ones I favor, David's Worm and The Sun, The Sea, and The Silent Scream. This mingle together in a lovely fashion, taking different aspects of horrors that are both physical and psychologial and placing them in a stew that o so well.<br />Shortly breaking down some of the inclusions and listing the rest at the end, they are:<br />David's Worm, a story about the lowly planarian worm that David, a scientist's son, sees upon a slide, notices is alive, and lovingly liberates by letting it go into a pond behind his home. Here it feeds and grows, taking on the abilities and mentalities of many of the things it consumes before finally wobbling onto land and confronting David and his family as well. I personally found this story entertaining because it shows why some things make good additions to a slideshow and shouldn't be freed and why I would only play fetch with a cute little blob like Planny if I had a kid to bait it with, plus the ending is wonderfully cruel device that sent a tiny shiver down my entertained spine. As a reader, I truly appreciate that.<br />Dagon's Bell, is a tale about the wonders of home acquisition and what sometimes lurks beneath our wonderful abodes. Here, a home once possessed by a man thought to be a bit crazed becomes vacant when he, disappearing altogether, can no longer display the wonders of shotgun love to an adoring public and a newly married couple decides that this place, an extensive fixer-upper, would be a dream come true. Little do they know that somewhere beneath the grounds the sounds of a bell, Dagon's Bell, can be heard when the tide is right, and it brings with it things that really don't make good dinner guests. This story has a lovely rendition of manifestation inside it that I enjoyed, plus a bit of background that is pretty tasty, not to mention that the story itself, teeming with a bit of madness that Lovecraft would enjoy, comes across really well.<br />The Sun, The Sea, and The Silent Scream, is a lovely recount depicting the joys of vacationing in places where the water isn't intestable and where tiny parasites, enjoyable crablike entities that like to get on and in their hosts, infest everything. Besides simply entertaining the reader, it actually works as a textbook of sorts, teaching you the merits of staying at places not considered \\"out of the way\\" and also showing you why your food preparers, a sometimes overlooked by the less picky of sorts, should be mistrusted without exception.<br /><br />The Fairground Horror, deals with the great tentacled one's priests and the markthey bare. It begins by focusing on Hodgson's Funfair and a man named Anderson Tharpe who has recently added a new freak-house frontage called \\"Tomb Of The Great Old Ones.\\" Within it are the normal oddities that freakshows like to use, the cons that have been sold throughout the ages, but there are also some other things, pieces taken from his younger brother, Hamiliton. Without delving too much into it, this is basically a lesson in why you should try to play with things belonging to the sleeping old one, and why you should never trust anyone wearing a hairpiece.<br />Also included in this book are The Second Wish, A Thing About Cars, Rising of Surtsey, Big 'C' and Beneath the Moors, all good pieces that deserve attention and will no doubt appeal to the outermost terror because of my careless neglect.<br />To say that the stories manifesting here are worth reading is, quite simply, an understatement of the foulest sort. With the mistreatment of a child's kindness, the rising of undersea horrors, fairs that have no need of falsified unicorns to have truly unique sideshows, and vile creatures that burrow under one's skin, this collection warms the heart in a way that only the most special of collections can. Personally, it makes me feel like singing Christmas carols.they bare. It begins by focusing on Hodgson's Funfair and a man named Anderson Tharpe who has recently added a new freak-house frontage called \\"Tomb Of The Great Old Ones.\\" Within it are the normal oddities that freakshows like to use, the cons that have been sold throughout the ages, but there are also some other things, pieces taken from his younger brother, Hamiliton. Without delving too much into it, this is basically a lesson in why you should try to play with things belonging to the sleeping old one, and why you should never trust anyone wearing a hairpiece.<br />Also included in this book are The Second Wish, A Thing About Cars, Rising of Surtsey, Big 'C' and Beneath the Moors, all good pieces that deserve attention and will no doubt appeal to the outermost terror because of my careless neglect. <br />To say that the stories manifesting here are worth reading is, quite simply, an understatement of the foulest sort. With the mistreatment of a child's kindness, the rising of undersea horrors, fairs that have no need of falsified unicorns to have truly unique sideshows, and vile creatures that burrow under one's skin, this collection warms the heart in a way that only the most special of collections can. Personally, it makes me feel like singing Christmas carols.	2002-11-11
US	37053389	R6M8K3HTZS7HK	0312854587	393612736	Fruiting Bodies and Other Fungi	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Reason to Mistrust the Abnormal	Amongst the most notable horror writers that have picked up a pen and crafted, Brain Lumley the short story writer (not to be confused with Brain Lumley, the novel writer, whom I really can't speak on because of lack of general knowledge on him) has to be mentioned with awe. I'm not certain if his allure is in the way he crafts situational happenstance, with the pages of foreshadowing seamlessly meshing with the way he flawless enacts characterization, if its the way his peaks and valleys, his towns and villas, dance so vividly that my mind can walkabout and taste the air that even the shortest of tales seems to craft, or if its the ideas for his stories themselves. Its strange how he accomplishes that task, though, approaching horror and punctuating it with an aire of newness that banishes many of the classically shallow pits we've seen a million times before. Honestly, every time I read one of his shorts I find myself wondering exactly where his mind will allow him to approach even the most basic idea from.<br /><br />In this collection of short stories, I've found many and many a tale that merits and actually demands acclaim. Some, like Fruiting Bodies and The Thin People, teem with topics that are frightening in their flavors, wearing masks that I can't recall reading anywhere else. Others, like the Lovecraftian tales he forged, most notably Recognition, wear dread like familiar sweaters. Now, for a listing of the stories here and a synopsis of some that no doubt does them an injustice:<br />Fruiting Bodies, one of my favorite pieces in this book, incorporates the disappearance of a town and the tales of a kindly old man into a tale of a mysterious fungi that seems quite extraordinary in its abilities. In fact, as it consumes more and more, it seems downright horrific in its reproach. I particularly liked this story because of the last statements, the punctuation mark on the horror if you will, that left the terrible tale open for the mind to digest. On top of that, the detail given to the setting is deliciously remarkable.<br />The Viaduct, a tale containing a valuable lesson on the cost of tormenting others, on heights and the challenge they bring to the table, and on the wonderful world of falling. This tale wasn't one that I cared for simply because of its ending, a great piece of work in and of itself, but I also appreciated the detailing, quite explicit and painstakingly given. In it, I could feel the characters and taste the surroundings, something that always amazes me.<br />Recognition, a Lovecraftian inspired piece, focuses on an entity that dwells within a home that someone wishes to be rid of, their efforts to understand the enemy, and the subsequent means (a medium, and exorcist, and someone to draw the beast for him) used to do so. This tale is particularly inspiring because it focuses upon the notion we hold most dear, that of understanding, and the high costs that connection can bring.<br />The Thin People, another of the more remarkable pieces here, dwells within the domain of The Thin People and their thin homes, where lightbulbs seem to vanish from streetlights and sometimes the number of lampposts changes for the worse, and on the strange science of \\"folding things.\\" Again, this was interesting because it was, in a word, original.<br />The Cyprus Shell, coupled with a piece Lumley states he wanted printed after it, The Deep-Sea Conch, are letters that go hand in hand detailing not one but two of the dwellers within the deep (not to be confused with Deep Ones). The first, a hypnotic piece with a mesmerizing snail, and the second, a prehistoric holdover dredged from the deep, flow well together and leave a wonderful taste in the mouth of the reader.<br />Lastly, Born in the Winds, another Lovecraftian pieces on the wonderfully Arctic world of the WindWalker, is something that approaches a familiar topic but does so in a grand way.<br />The stories I chose not to breakdown are The Man Who Felt Pain, The Man Who Photographed Beardsley, No Way Home, The Pit-Yakker, The Mirror of Nitocris, and Necros. This, in no way reflects upon them as stories because all are quite good, but more on the laziness of the reviewer himself and his need to keep some things nameless.<br />All in all, the way this collection bounces from topic to topic, from beastly horror to loathsomely fungoid terror, is a sight to behold and well worth the read. I especially find it nice to fear something new for a change.ain, The Man Who Photographed Beardsley, No Way Home, The Pit-Yakker, The Mirror of Nitocris, and Necros. This, in no way reflects upon them as stories because all are quite good, but more on the laziness of the reviewer himself and his need to keep some things nameless. <br />All in all, the way this collection bounces from topic to topic, from beastly horror to loathsomely fungoid terror, is a sight to behold and well worth the read. I especially find it nice to fear something new for a change.	2002-11-10
US	37053389	R2Z1GIVVXU3YO2	1591160332	254899099	Uzumaki, Volume 2 (v. 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Upon a Ocean of Looping Shapes	In my opinion, Uzumaki has to be one of the most disturbing visual remedies I've used to quench the utter state of boredom I sometimes find myself immersed within. Its ocular metaphors, coupling the ingenuity of Junji Ito's mind with believably sculpted pictorials depicting horror after sometimes nameless horror, are something unique in the field of terror.<br />The concept (taken from the back of the book because of its wonderful description):<br />Kurozu-cho, a small fogbound town on the coast of Japan, is cursed. But the spirit which haunts it does not have a name or a body, only a shape: uzumaki, the spiral, the hypnotic shape of the world. It possessed the father of teenage Kirie's withdrawn boyfriend, causing him to remake himself in its image before he died. It grows in ferns, in seashells, in curls of hair, in the crooked folds of the human brain.... As more people are caught in the pattern, over the town of Kurozu-cho hangs the spiral of cremated corpses; because even in death, there is no escape.<br />In this installment:<br />In Chapter 7 through 12, more issues are fleshed out, leading us away from the strange occurances at Dragonfly Pond and our two mainstay characters, using them somewhat but still dancing in other venues of thought. Briefly, these are:<br />In Chapter 7, Jack-in-the-box, Kirie catches the eye of a seventh-grader named Mitsuru Yamaguchi, a boy they simply call Jack-in-the-box because of his habit of surprising people by springing out at them from anywhere he can conceal himself. He decides that he must have her because it will surprise people to see him with such an intoxicating vision, constantly dogging her every step as he tries to obtain her. This, of course, leads to an ill-fated accident that Kirie blames herself for, one that invites the horror of the spiral into a cryptically grave-unveiling manner. It also shows us the impact the recent events have been having on the town, with the introduction of burial once again taking place, something that people have deemed necessary after the black-spiral clouds that come from cremating a resident of the town anywhere, not just in the town itself.<br />In Chapter 8, The Snail, (one of my favorites in the series thusfar) it begins to rain, a signal that the slowest boy in class, Katayama, will be coming to school. In fact, it is the only time he comes to school, and he even does this in the most tardy of fashions. Because of the speed he operates at, he is constantly taunted by one of his peers, Tsumura, who actually strips him down after gym class one day and drags him out in the hall. That's when they notice it, the spiracle impression looming upon his back, one that grows and grows as the days progress. Soon its apparent that there is a change transpiring in Katayama, one that causes him to slink across the ground and elevates the impression upon his back. In this, he isn't alone, either.<br />In Chapter Nine, The Black Lighthouse, an abandoned old lighthouse begins emitting a strangely spiraled ray from within, one that begins to effect people within the town in many a strange fashion. This alarms many of the town's residents, and they demand a party be sent to check it out. There requests are heard and people are sent, and their fate remains a secret until Kirie's younger brother decides that he and his friends should explore this decrepit monument.<br />In Chapter Ten, Mosquitoes, the mosquitoes begin to fly drowsy circles that put people to sleep, feeding on blood irregularly, large amounts of it in fact, to the mystery of the doctors within the town. While this is going on, herds of pregnant women are being attacked and admitted into the hospital, plus the killing are elevating at even the hospital itself. Victims with holes bored into them are found within their beds, leading to a question of \\"what the\\" thast is answered in a most gruesome manner.<br />In Chapter Eleven, the umbilical Cord, the pregnant women deliver the most adorable, mostbehaved, babies ever seen. This, of course, can't be good, nor can't it be dwelt on by me for fear of giving something away.<br />And, lastly, in Chapter Twelve, The Storm, A hurricane comes aground, stopping over the town and simply hovering. It seems to want something, too, because in the night it can be heard calling out a name, one very familiar to the readers.<br />All in all, I would say that this is wonderful installment, wetting the appetite for the final portion of the storyline. It does a lot to build on the first Uzumaki book, keeping the proverbial ball rolling without making it a boring spectacle. It isn't for the weak of heart of mind, however, and would only be recommended as bedtime reading to your children after you initially dose them with heaping helpings of horror movies and storylines to harden their soft pallets. O, and its in black and white, for those that think color is the only venue producing meritable works.ehaved, babies ever seen. This, of course, can't be good, nor can't it be dwelt on by me for fear of giving something away.<br />And, lastly, in Chapter Twelve, The Storm, A hurricane comes aground, stopping over the town and simply hovering. It seems to want something, too, because in the night it can be heard calling out a name, one very familiar to the readers.<br />All in all, I would say that this is wonderful installment, wetting the appetite for the final portion of the storyline. It does a lot to build on the first Uzumaki book, keeping the proverbial ball rolling without making it a boring spectacle. It isn't for the weak of heart of mind, however, and would only be recommended as bedtime reading to your children after you initially dose them with heaping helpings of horror movies and storylines to harden their soft pallets. O, and its in black and white, for those that think color is the only venue producing meritable works.	2002-10-13
US	37053389	R4Q213YVYRL5V	1569714266	44215364	Scatterbrain	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Mentally Magnetic, Mignola and his Tasty Chums	This collection of shorts, created by some of the most prolific minds in the comic arena, couples the realms of silliness with a childlike darkness, giving the reader something to laugh at sometimes while wondering if this should induce laughter at all. Thirty-six pieces exist here, some little blurbs that are semi-enjoyable, others bigger, more captivating oddities on parade, and still others, like Mike Mignola's Au Gung and the Beanstalk, are something to purchase editions like this one because of.<br />The better pieces included here are:<br />Abu Gung and the Beanstalk, by Mike Mignola, is the story of a Gung man who happens across a tale only Mignola could have crafted. It comes from one of three sisters, two of them starving, that speaks of former riches and squandered fortunes, of jewels traded for food and of one sister, the greediest of the lot, trading her's for some magic beans. Deciding they were rightfully her's to consume, she shares them not and suffers a most horrible fate. A beanstalk rips through her chest and ascends to the sky, dancing far from the reach of men. Abu, plagued by curiosity, decides to climb it and see just what awaits in the sky, and what he finds is wonderfully entertaining and well worth the read. It alone elevates the book to wondrous proportions.<br />Fisher Price Theatre Presents: George Orwell's 1984, by Evan Dorkin and Sarah Dyer, is a wonderful depiction of 1984 through the use of everyone's favorite Fisher Price people. It takes memorable scenes, giving you a sculpted view of Orwell's vision in a nutshell. This, in my opinion, is also one of the best, most creative pieces here, ranking with the likes of Abu Gung and makes people like myself truly appreciate the minds behind it.<br />Pip and Norton in the Spinning Buddha, by Dave Copper and Gavin Mcinnes, is a three-part tale depicting Pip and the obsessive links he'll go to in acquiring the newest fad, The Spinning Buddha with flaming Zycbrobe action and patented spin-o-rama action.<br />Wanita and Glenn, by Craig Tompson, is simply a page filler with a semi-cutesy fill. Still, for some reason, blobs talking in barcode really touches something inside my soul.<br />Sour Milks: A tragedy in Five Pages, by Pat McEown, is an odd tale of crime and misfortune brought about by soured milk.<br />The Misadventures of Tommy T-Rex, by Brian McDonald and Brain O'Connell, is a wonderful piece about a young T-Rex and the extents to which he has to go to fit in with otherwise human counterparts. I think it sums it up in this conversation between Tommy and his human father. Tommy: \\"I miss my old friends.\\" Father: \\"Well then you probably shouldn't have eaten them!\\" Its hilarity at its finest and deserves acclaim as well.<br />Life Could be a Dream Starring Montgomery Wart, by Mark Martin, is about an amphibian youth and his adventures in a surreal day of skipping school. I found it youthfully enjoyable and worth a read.<br />Hook, Line and Sinker: A castle waiting Short Story, by Linda Medley, was an enjoyable excursion into the fanciful, dealing with, amongst other things, a wonderful little demon trying to claim itself a youthfully naive soul.<br />Dog Drool Jewel, by David Sheldon, is a nice little commercial about mass marketing dog drool in dog drool jewels.<br />Bugged, by Sergio Aragones, is about an out-of-work extraterrestrial habitation engineer who is married to a woman who is, in turn, married to her work. Unfortunately for him (and for her) it happens to be Lepidopterology, the study of insects. Well, after snapping and running off to hide in space, he finds himself surrounded by three beautiful women conducting research. Sounds get? Maybe not.<br />Maxwell Escapes to Gillsville, by Dave Clegg, is the story of a fish named Maxwell that thinks he'll escape to a paradise called Gillsville by playing dead.<br />Rock, Paper, Scissors, by Evan Dorkin, depicting the evolution of struggle between these three, chronicling such events as Scissorssacrificing Paper to Satan and Paper using influential political and media contacts to malign rock and scissors.<br />Pip and Norton in Zzzombie Grrll, by Dave Cooper and Gavin Mcinnes, showing us Pip and his new love interest, a wonderful brain-eating sweetheart of a girl.<br />And, another one of the greats, The Musical Lump Wagon, by Craig Thompson, depicting for us the capture, slave trade, and monetary manipulation of lumps by the manipulative tweak of electricity.<br />Also included are The Particklers, by Kilian Plunkett, Kid Cyclops, by Steven Guarnaccia, Mud Monkeys, by James Kochalka, Pirates Featuring Tom the Dinosaur + Tom + Rainy Day Featuring Tom the Dinosaur (3 stories), by Daniel Torres, Bronco Teddy, by Jim Woodring and Tom Dougherty, Tales of Red Erchie, A Northern Fantasy, by Steve Parkhouse and Keith Young, Bring on the Robots, by Pat McEown,Oddette, by Jay Stephens, The Cluck of Fear, by Chris Garbutt, The Poet Who Loved Tea, by Greg C. Clarke, Ancient Joe, C.S. Morse. While these are bunched together, not all are bad. Some are better than others, some are bottom feeders, but the artists all got paid, so what the heck?<br />Anyhow, this collection is, by and far, something that anyone should go out and pick up because it has all the elements that the growing mind sadistically needs. People of all ages, lumps included, should get out there and consume!ssors sacrificing Paper to Satan and Paper using influential political and media contacts to malign rock and scissors. <br />Pip and Norton in Zzzombie Grrll, by Dave Cooper and Gavin Mcinnes, showing us Pip and his new love interest, a wonderful brain-eating sweetheart of a girl. <br />And, another one of the greats, The Musical Lump Wagon, by Craig Thompson, depicting for us the capture, slave trade, and monetary manipulation of lumps by the manipulative tweak of electricity. <br />Also included are The Particklers, by Kilian Plunkett, Kid Cyclops, by Steven Guarnaccia, Mud Monkeys, by James Kochalka, Pirates Featuring Tom the Dinosaur + Tom + Rainy Day Featuring Tom the Dinosaur (3 stories), by Daniel Torres, Bronco Teddy, by Jim Woodring and Tom Dougherty, Tales of Red Erchie, A Northern Fantasy, by Steve Parkhouse and Keith Young, Bring on the Robots, by Pat McEown,Oddette, by Jay Stephens, The Cluck of Fear, by Chris Garbutt, The Poet Who Loved Tea, by Greg C. Clarke, Ancient Joe, C.S. Morse. While these are bunched together, not all are bad. Some are better than others, some are bottom feeders, but the artists all got paid, so what the heck?<br />Anyhow, this collection is, by and far, something that anyone should go out and pick up because it has all the elements that the growing mind sadistically needs. People of all ages, lumps included, should get out there and consume!	2002-10-04
US	37053389	R2XQMHRD2QALKF	1568820542	740323159	The Disciples of Cthulhu (Call of Cthulhu Novel)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Madness in a Variety of Motions	When I first picked up this book, I was merely going out to replace something I had read long ago and had  enjoyed immensely. Still, when I started going through it, I saw some noticeable changes that actually helped it out and are worth noting. See, while this is the second revised edition of this book and many have already checked out the first, there were some changes in the lineup that made it different from the original. First, the stories by Ramsey Campbell and Brain Lumley were slightly revised, making them flow more appropriately. Next, \\"Zoth-Ommog,\\" by Lin Carter, was dropped and replaced with Robert Price's \\"Dope War of the Blank Tong,\\" a change that would be upsetting if it weren't for Lin's own set of stories being published and, lastly, \\"The Feaster from Afar,\\" by Joseph Brennan, was left out and replaced with A.A. Attansio's \\"Glimpses.\\"<br />In this edition of the continual homage paid to Lovecraftian lore, there are two above average tales and five standout pieces that bring this 258 page edition to life, making it well worth buying. Briefly breaking some of them down and leaving out two well-crafted pieces, ( \\"Darkness, my name is,\\" by Eddie Bertin, and The Terror from the Depths,\\" by Fritz Leber, which spatial constrains keep me from going into detail about) and one above average tale (\\"Where Yidhra Walks, \\"by Walter Debill, Jr.) they are:<br />\\"The Fairground Horror,\\" by Brain Lumley, deals with the great tentacled one's priests and the mark they bare. It begins by focusing on Hodgson's Funfair and a man named Anderson Tharpe who has recently added a new freak-house frontage called \\"Tomb Of The Great Old Ones.\\" Within it are the normal oddities that freakshows like to use, the cons that have been sold throughout the ages, but there are also some other things, pieces taken from his younger brother, Hamiliton. Without delving too much into it, this is basically a lesson in why you should try to play with things belonging to the sleeping old one.<br />\\"The Silence of Erika Zann,\\" by James Wade, plays off of a previously introduced idea by modernizing it, placing Erich Zann's granddaughter in a Rock Band that delves into some odd forums. Any time they play, there is a strange roar that seems to come from nowhere, and it seems to be taking its toll on her. What is it, the main character asks over and over? Well, its an above average tale that is good but loses some ground when compared to the works around it.<br />\\"All-Eye,\\" by Bob Laerhoven, is an odd mixture of story with a surprise ending. Initially, I wasn't certain I would like it at all because it seemed like the basic forum introduced, the \\"found a book, it had a map, I went looking and something happened\\" story design, but that quickly changed when I read  all the way through. Its hard to say that much about it without ruining the story, so I'll simply state that the style used pleasantly different.<br />\\"The Tugging,\\" by Ramsey Campbell, shows exactly how talented this word painter actually is, with his analogies and comparisons actually deserving a bit of acclaim. It focuses on Ingels, a man plagued by dreams that he and his father seem to share. When he sleeps he dreams of a city beneath the waves and that the clouds in the sky are becoming something, but he always awakens before he find out exactly what that is. The dreams provoke a dread for sleep, an insomnia that begins to interrupt reality, and before Ingels knows he sees a correlation between both realms as they mesh together. Again, without giving away too much, this story is well worth you time to read.<br />Glimpse, by A.A. Attansio, is an odd tale involving the Lord of Holes himself, Yog-Sothoth, revolving around an oddly pierced stone that defies description. Sometimes it seems like a simple stone, other times it seems like a strange congammeration of ribbons. Our initial main character, Gene Mirandola, is given it when he goes to meet with his uncle, an oddly eclectic individual that tells him to take it to a Dr. Marc Souvate. Well, he does, and finds out the oddities of the One-in-All and All-in-One, things that deal directly with his uncle and that deal with Souvate's odd history as well. The story takes a strange turn in the center, taking a simple threat to one soul by Yog and his followers to one that threatens the entirety of the world. It's actually really well done.<br />The next, by Robert Price, is entitled \\"Dope War of the Black Tong,\\" Its a story revolving around the Tcho-Tcho and their worshipping habits, reminding me very much of something Robert E. Howard would have done. It has all the essentials; a storyline, some tentacles, a bit of death, and Asian oddities.<br />Again, this set of stories is well worth checking out because their focus is not uniformed and their styles certainly differ. It is in this variety that you gain something, something wonderfully evil, and evil meshing with all-encompassing madness is always a wonderful thing.him to take it to a Dr. Marc Souvate. Well, he does, and finds out the oddities of the One-in-All and All-in-One, things that deal directly with his uncle and that deal with Souvate's odd history as well. The story takes a strange turn in the center, taking a simple threat to one soul by Yog and his followers to one that threatens the entirety of the world. It's actually really well done.<br />The next, by Robert Price, is entitled \\"Dope War of the Black Tong,\\" Its a story revolving around the Tcho-Tcho and their worshipping habits, reminding me very much of something Robert E. Howard would have done. It has all the essentials; a storyline, some tentacles, a bit of death, and Asian oddities. <br />Again, this set of stories is well worth checking out because their focus is not uniformed and their styles certainly differ. It is in this variety that you gain something, something wonderfully evil, and evil meshing with all-encompassing madness is always a wonderful thing.	2002-09-30
US	37053389	R1RBH3Q457W9XN	1563893819	382866826	Gon Color Spectacular (Paradox Press)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Strange Happenings for the Tiny Terror	The tiny jurassic tornado is back in full swing, and he's doing things in color for the first time! The six eight-page stories that appear here originated in the Japanese comic MORNING and are collected for the first time together, and they all defy the normality of Gon by bringing him to you in a full-flavored sight spectrum. The format of this addition is a bit odd for the Gon series, coming to you in a comic type style instead of the normal trade paperback editions, but don't let that fool you. It still has all the kick of a normal Gon feature.<br />If you are unfamiliar with Gon and his exploits, he's is a two-foot-tall, unstoppable dinosaur that loves to explore, take up for the \\"little guys,\\" and terrorize anything that gets in his way. He travels far and wide, matching his little feet and indestructible nature against anything the world can throw at him, providing silent (yes, that's right, no words) entertainment for people of all ages/interests.<br />Included here are:<br />Gon is very sleepy, proving that Gon not only works hard and plays hard, but he also sleeps with a ferocity that also manages to intertwine his downtime and trouble.<br />Gon's archenemy, the bear, shows that Gon really doesn't like bears at all. In quite a few of his other adventures, Gon has found himself at odds with them, going to lengths to torment them. In this piece, Gon runs across a gorge with a single log providing a way to cross and a bear with a fish coming from the other direction. Will Gon give? Right.<br />Gon meets King Bear is more of a showing of strength, pitting the little dinosaur against the king of the forest in a contest of eating and endurance.<br />Gon becomes electric Gon mingles Gon with lightning, only adding to the torment he can cause for others. This one is especially good, providing an interesting ending that was, well, unexpected.<br />Gon meets little teddy finds Gon wandering across the path of a little bear trying to reach an apple in the distance. Well, when a bird swoops down and takes it, Gon does what he doe best. He teaches it a lesson.<br />In Gon has big antlers, Gon is admiring a deer's antlers in the forest, wanting some for himself. Well, he comes across the skeleton of a deceased one, removes its horns and carries them in his mouth, and causes chaos for predator and prey alike., when a bird swoops down and takes it, Gon does what he doe best. He teaches it a lesson. <br />In Gon has big antlers, Gon is admiring a deer's antlers in the forest, wanting some for himself. Well, he comes across the skeleton of a deceased one, removes its horns and carries them in his mouth, and causes chaos for predator and prey alike.	2002-09-25
US	37053389	R39K7Y2PX08N21	1563897490	75496126	Gon: Introducing The Dinosaur That Time Will Never Forget! (Paradox Fiction)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Enter the Dino Mind	Gon is, by and far, an enjoyable journey through the greatly unexplored world of nature and is introduced to us in the most unlikely of ways. Here, amidst an untamed world, we meet the most unlikely of travelers, that of a two-foot-tall unstoppable force that just happens to be one of the cutest/aggressive characters ever to grace a storyline, as he looks for fun, adventure, and something to eat. This book is where the adventures of Gon, the adorable dinosaur with a voracious appetite for exploration/competetion, begins, introduced to us in short story forums. We join Masashi Tanaka as he relays this through silent adventure after silent adventure, speaking wheels through expressions and a flurry of emotive responses instead of simple spurts of meaningless dialog.<br />Here, Gon first battles and then humiliates an otherwise gargantuan bear that otherwise seems to dominate the wilderness, ends up flying with the aid of a few eagles after a strange little adventure in feeding/protecting some little ones, torments a dingo looking for some easy pickings, fights alongside some wolf cubs he seems somewhat attracted to, lives amongst the penguins, and builds himself a mansion that makes even the beavers enviously agitated.<br />If you've never had the opportunity to check this out, I would recommend it highly. The art style, the character itself, and the fact that I've never found myself bored throughout five books filled with him, says that Gon is a force to be reckoned with.	2002-09-21
US	37053389	RVZ9ICX2Z5IVO	1563896699	548798190	Gon on Safari (Paradox Fiction)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Walking through the Wild	In this edition of the Gon saga, our dinosaur tourguide takes us from the snowcapped peaks of Tibet to the acrid plains of the African Veldt as he goes on Safari. While it is in the same short story format that Gon readers will, no doubt, find themselves familiar with, one of the stories actually deals with more than perseverance and curiosity, holding pangs of sadness within it as it branches out to deal with the slightly touched venue of demise.<br />A short synopsis of the stories (without spoiling them):<br />Gon with the huge wise elephant is a tale that starts with the adventuresome Gon traveling with a herd of elephants in the middle of a huge storm. It slowly morphs into something more, however, placing Gon in the midst of an elephant's struggle to find its final resting spot, a cavern filled with the bones of other elephants. Though filled with some comical portions of classic Gon exploits, it is a bit more serious than most other portions of the book.<br />Gon and the bird's nest on his head finds Gon with, you guessed it, a bird's nest on the top of his head. Three chicks are living inside at the time, three riders in for the experience of their lives.<br />Gon and his wounded fellows pits Gon and some hardened animals against the wiles of an unfriendly, sometimes fire-riddened forest.<br />Gon climbs a mountain, the final story in the book, puts Gon up against an impossible seeming task, that of climbing a mountain with stubby, almost nonexistent, arms. Besides weather and the height, he also has some other woes, like that of a very unfriendly Ibex dancing on his head.	2002-09-21
US	37053389	R2YQJL3F9AJJ5D	1563895919	887327683	Gon Underground (Paradox Press)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Giants Underground	Gon, the indestructible two-foot-tall dinosaur nomad created by Masashi Tanaka, finds himself deviating from the &quot;norm,&quot; if there is truly something normal about Gon's adventures, in Gon Underground. It not only pits Gon in and against a new surrounding, but it also puts him into something else that is refreshingly abnormal, that of a full-length storyline with more interconnection than simply the main character. This helps in many ways because it gives more time to develop those characters that would otherwise been seen only briefly, helping you to feel their plights and laugh along at the futility of their dealings with the over-anxious little dinosaur.<br />The gist of this tale (without spoiling it):<br />While staring into an anthill and watching its innerworkings, Gon finds himself intrigued by the prospective of going underground and promptly digs up the anthill. Saddened to find that it ends so soon, Gon goes looking for something else to sate his newfound burrowing curiosity and locates it in the form of prairie dog burrows. After playing here for a time and psychologically tormenting some of the little guy's predators, an earthquake hits and Gon finds himself elsewhere, in a subterranean world filled with giant isopeta, giant mayflies, hog bats, enormous pill-bugs, huge toads, and his greatest adversary, the king spider! Still, this odd world has never seen anything like Gon and vice-versa, so its off to explore and to, of course, cause a little trouble.<br />I've seen it stated that Gon, a silent spectator delving into a wordless world, is something for the artlover only because it has no story. Well, I'd have to say that this couldn't be further from the truth. Silence, whether in moving picture or in that of a still, can weave a tale though textures, through expression, and through the gist of something different, like the curiosity of a dinosaur with nothing to fear from life. This is what Gon does in an almost innocent fashion, something that should be checked out by any and everyone.t should be checked out by any and everyone.	2002-09-21
US	37053389	R31ILP879G44UY	1883013496	271358574	Time 100: Leaders and Revolutionaries, Artists and Entertainers (Time 100 , Vol 1) (v. 1)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Not Very Enlightening	When I first obtained this book, I expected more and was, to say the least, disappointed on many levels. Perhaps a bit more inclusion, perhaps a bit more insight, and perhaps a bit more reasoning as to why these people are \\"The Most Influential People of the 20th Century would have made this a better book because, in some ways, the book is semi-informative. Still, the book, with its inclusion of the mainstream \\"notables\\" that don't have the power to bring controversy to the table, leaves many figures in the shadows that should have been, could have been, and perhaps were in many - except the Time Book's staff - people's minds, the most influential people in the 20th century.<br />  The List, in case you're a fan and want to read some 3-4 page blurbs on these individuals, is broken into two categories:<br />(1) Leaders and Revolutionaries: Theodore Roosevelt, Lenin, Margaret Sanger, F.D. Roosevelt, Hitler, Churchill, E. Roosevelt, Gandhi, David Ben-Gurion, Mao Zedong, Ho Chi Minh, M. L. K. , Pope J.P. II, M. Thatcher, Ayatollah Puhollah Khomeini, R. Reagan, Lee Walesa, Gorbachev, N. Mandela, and The Unknown Rebel.<br />(2) Artists and Entertainers: Picasso, Corbusier, Graham, Chanel, James Joyce, T.S. Eliot, C. Chaplin, Spielberg, M. Brando, Igor Stravinsky, L. Armstrong, Frank Sinatra, Rodgers and Hammerstein, The Beatles, Bob Dylan, Aretha Franklin, Lucille Ball, Jim Henson, Oprah, and Bart Simpson.<br />As you can tell, this list is a bit lacking and, in many cases, a few pages doesn't do the person it covers justice. Still, if you like little snippets that candycoat the past by glossing over the transgressions of the those in favor and casting stones at those who aren't, then you may, somehow, find this book more enlightening than I did.	2002-09-14
US	37053389	RAZQ26K4F0SAR	053452074X	475892600	Communicate!	Books	1	12	15	N	N	Dictating Sleep, Volumes and Volumes of It	Perhaps this book is considered, by some people, to be a college-level volume, but the simplification of the subject is of the most demeaning of sorts. It begins by teaching you the most basic of ideas, the communication process (entailing the meanings of words like context, participants, messages, channels, noise, feedback, and so on), drudges through some page-filler slush about why we should communicate, and finally, in chapter twelve, gets to a little something on public speaking - what I thought the book, considering its useage, was designed for.<br />To illustrate the simplicity of this book, the content (broke into four sections) is as follows:<br />(1) Foundations of Communication, the first 100 pages - including some topics like verbal and nonverbal communication, plus the perception of self and others.<br />(2) Interpersonal Communication, the next 110 pages - includes topics ranging from listening and job interviews to communicating in relationships.<br />(3) Group Communication, ranging at only 20 plus pages of content - tells you how to participate in groups and about leadership in groups.<br />(4) Public Speaking, the last 160 pages - finally touches on how to pick a topic, research it, adapting to an audience, and takes a lot of time differentiating between informative vs. persuasive speaking.<br />If you need something to teach you the ABC's of speech, perhaps you might want to look into this. Still, if you actually want to know something more than the most basic thoughts on this subject, I would advise skipping this altogether and thanking yourself for it later.	2002-09-13
US	37053389	R2X7DKE61UN42O	0486237818	458847355	Silhouettes: A Pictorial Archive of Varied Illustrations (Dover Pictorial Archive Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Shadow Realm	While trying to understand the subtleties of shadowing in the art world, I ran into a dilemma. As a novice in many styles and in the use of producing certain textures, I found myself a bit baffled by the silhouette designwork associated with hairstyles, the addition of hats, outfitting, movement, and so on. It seemed difficult to get everything just right and I found myself needing some type of guide to help me across this pen and paper \\"speedbumb.\\" That's where this somewhat obscure but very helpful guide, a find I accidentally stumbled across, came into play.<br /><br />By providing well over 600 silhouettes ranging throughout the 18th to the 20th centuries, all struck in a variety of poses and in a variety of even obscure outfitting, this book allowed me to understand a few fundamentals that were, for some reason, devils to grasp. This, in turn, showed me the errors of my ways and, by providing a variety of poses and angles, made me feel like I was actually learning something. The book, organized into categories, ranges its material into the following sections:<br />1) Men's profiles<br />2) Men in full figure<br />3) Women's Profiles<br />4) Women in Full Figure<br />5) Children<br />6) Groups and Scenes<br />7) An alphabet in Silhouettes<br />8) Birds and animals<br />9) Other subjects from nature<br />10) Ships<br />If you are simply an appreciator of designwork, an artist in need of some help, a bored individual with a need for something a bit odd, a craftsmen looking for designs to add to their works, or just an art consumer looking for a less pretentious avenue to keep your interest, then this might be worth checking out. While it isn't useful for everyone, it does have its unique place in the land of bookshelves and art tables.	2002-07-08
US	37053389	R2F0LF8R6UJBFD	048623259X	333349597	American Trademark Designs (Dover Pictorial Archive S)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Influences upon the Consumer Mindset	Sometimes, when I'm a bit bored and need something to occupy my mind, I find myself flipping through the American Trademark Designs armada of listings. I personally like to try and find things that I've seen here and there, slickly hidden in various venues that are passed every day, in hopes of understanding many of those truly unique advertising campaigns.<br />While a bit on the outdated side now (1976 was its original printing year), it still has has a useful 732 trademarks, logos, and corporate symbols depicted on its 149 pages. Added to this is the fact that, even though the illustrations are in black and white, the book actually goes to the trouble of footnoting the colors and many of the meanings behind some of the symbology. Its broken down into sections, listing :<br />1)Entertainment, leisure, sports<br />2)Civic institutions and Education<br />3)Finance, insurance<br />4) Food and Beverages<br />5) Miscellaneous Consumer Products, Paper Products, Drugs, Toys<br />6) Retailers<br />7) Printing, Publishing and other service industries<br />8) Real Estate and Construction<br />9) Transportation<br />10) Utilities, oil, and heavy industry<br />Besides being a wonderful sociological piece, this book helps out if you want to know how long a companies been profiteering off the public, what that mesh of pictures flying by on that bus/billborad actually is,  as well as if that really is someone (edited to keep a G rating) in that little logo. Recommended for people who like understanding the industrial mindset when presenting themselves to the public.	2002-07-07
US	37053389	RGMM3XFVMRX7X	0486200248	722643837	The Drawings of Heinrich Kley (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Expressionism and its Bleak Social Commentary	Heinrich Kley, an expressionist know for his work with pen and ink sketches, mostly of the black and white variety, is someone undeservedly without oceans of renown despite the fact that many of his works appear around us daily. He did have his proverbial \\"day in the sun,\\" gaining notoriety for his satirical approach to world at large, but that seems to have ebbed off since his death in the 1940s and many have forgotten who this is. Well, this book is a wonderful showpiece of his works, containing two of his sketchbooks that many people have seen plenty of times but might not recognize by name, helping to revitalize the memory. Many of these works still have a lot of social merit today, taking shots at bureaucracy, militarism, and other satirical facets that we still find ourselves plagued with.<br />I found myself attracted to this artist because of his strangely dark overtures showpieced in this volume, with snails consuming people and giants stomping villages full of what they deem their inferiors, plus its takes on industrialism and religion. Presented with an introduction that explains the life of the artist, this editions, actually two books brought together for one showing, has a total of 200 illustrations spanning 125 + pages and makes it an excellent deal. Still, if your easily offended perhaps theme presentation will most deservedly offend you and you might want to pass on it. If you like dark humor that has deep seeded, often missed, meanings, however, you'll love Kley.<br />Highly Recommended.	2002-07-06
US	37053389	R19E3DAAY13P7	081182487X	174997880	C-3PO : Tales of the Golden Droid (Star Wars Masterpiece Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sacks of Appendages (and words, too)	When this C-3PO was first released, I was quite pleased with the quality of the product but was equally aghast at the price it carried. This, like any other Masterpiece Edition, debuted at an eye-popping seventy-five dollars, a ransom heftier than even the most successful bounty hunter would dare demand (and few seem willing to pay). I do admit that I was tempted by this, but the temptation was a fleeting thing that has only returned now, in the wide world of clearance items. Yes, with the series falling into relative obscurity, the remaining shelf-liners can be found at a fraction of the original cost, making the hesitant consumer a happy one. Now, to the set itself:<br />  First, I like the gimmick boxes that these Masterpiece Editions are released in. The odd shape, coupled with the fact that (a) the design work is fantastic and (b) the book edition nestled within conforms to these specs, make some really catchy packaging that catches the eye and frequently makes me look again.<br />Second, The C-3PO figure itself is a nice edition to the 12&quot; lineup, with removable limbs that match the &quot;old school&quot; figure. Also included is a backpack mimicking the one used in the movie to secure his various appendages (his head, arms, and two section legs detach from the torso), giving it that added depth I've always loved.<br />Third, the book is interesting enough (if you're into 3PO), telling you about character concepts and the various toys 3PO's that have been released. Personally, I wouldn't have bought it for this facet alone, but I'm not a huge droid fan either.<br />Reduction in price = Something too nice to pass up. Now is the time to consume.	2002-06-30
US	37053389	R1AFSUWJ82HXB	1568821131	340005874	The Innsmouth Cycle: The Taint of the Deep Ones (Call of Cthulhu Fiction)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	No Water-Wings Since Dagon, tales of aquatic enhancement	There are certain praises I have for this book, with its inclusively delightful incorporation of preLovecraftian influences in addition to the Lovecraftian influenced, and I have some complaints about it, too, the biggest of which deals with the number of stories and their length. (Its advertised as having \\"thirteen tales and three poems,\\" but some of the \\"tales\\" are actually really short poems as well.) Still, its not a bad mixture of stories for any reader and it does deal with the Deep Ones, Dagon worshippers whose plight (and antics) pull on my heartstrings.<br />Random selections of some of the better beasts collected herein (not mentioning Shadows over Innsmouth because it doesn't need recognition) include:<br />The Harbor-Master, by Robert W. Chambers, one of \\"preLovecraftian\\" stories mentioned that actually merits a look not only because its a well-written piece but also because it shows where Lovecraft procured ideas for \\"The Innsmouth look\\" and Devil's Reef. I give it a five star rating.<br />Fishhead, by Irvin S. Cobb, is also another precursor to Shadows over Innsmouth that further illustrates the \\"Innsmouth Look.\\" It is a strange look into the mentality of the public at the time, plus the mention Reelfoot Lake (I've lived near there and its frightening) sends a four and one-half star shiver down my spine.<br />The Deep Ones, by James Wade, described by the editor as \\"Lovecraft's version of flipper,\\" is another piece that deserves recognition. Besides being a nice framework focusing on the 60's that deals with Innsmouth, that title alone gets it a jovial 4.5 star rating out of me.<br />and<br />The Innsmouth Head, by Franklyn Searight, an excellently written piece that warrants  a pat on the creative back of the author by these hands. It poses the five-star question, \\"What do you do when fishing off of Devil's Reef and suddenly finding yourself hooking a bipedal reptilian?\\" which shouldn't be answered, \\"I keep its head and chuck the rest, of course!\\"<br />All in all, its a nice read because it shows how people, including Lovecraft, perceive words and then build upon previous thoughts in their own ways. Besides, Deep Ones need a little love (and sunglasses for those unblinking eyes), too.in all, its a nice read because it shows how people, including Lovecraft, perceive words and then build upon previous thoughts in their own ways. Besides, Deep Ones need a little love (and sunglasses for those unblinking eyes), too.	2002-06-29
US	37053389	R2C0SKRMVJTWV4	1887797157	885637577	The Lurker in the Lobby: A Guide to the Cinema of H.P. Lovecraft	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Only Lurking in the Lobby	This book is helpful for those who want to brush up on their &quot;must have&quot; Lovecraftian films. In fact, I was surprised by one or two of the additions that I had either forgotten about or hadn't seen because of their easily overlooked releases. Still, it only goes so far on addressing the Lovecraftian equation of the cinema, leaving out some relatively obscure films that have been made and stringing together some really loose ties to others. The banter is sometimes really funny, sometimes really annoying, and oftentimes hit-and-miss with its reviews on the films it speaks of. I would only recommend it if you only want to get your feet wet in the mythos or just have to have anything with the word &quot;Lovecraft&quot; attached to it.	2002-06-26
US	37053389	R2L2YM1EKIJTDC	0811829049	91602612	Aurra Sing : Dawn of the Bounty Hunters (Star Wars Masterpiece Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perhaps too Harshly Judged	When the Aurra Sing: Dawn of the Bounty Hunters set was first released at an eye-popping seventy-five dollars, I, like many others, were a bit put off by it. With the number of unbought items because of this price, however, it became easier and easier to find this piece at an agreeable price. That is good, too, because it has a multitude of redeemable qualities.<br />1) The 12\\" figure itself isn't bad crafted at all. The facial features look accurate, the hands and lengthened fingers are well sculpted, and the hair, with a mixture of beaded strands finishing off the effect, make the body design look quite good. It is flawed in a few ways, with a bit of an oversized head (not too badly, but still, at the wrong angle, large), few points of articulation, and the antenna in her head bending a bit too easily and staying that way. Still, the articulation in 12' figures has never been the best, so this is overlookable. Personally, I don't want McFarlane overunfluencing yet another market.<br />2) The outfitting actually looks good, too, with removable pieces ranging from shells, guns, a weapons belt, boots, and a vest with varied attachments. This is an improvement over many recent releases because it gives more depth to the figure.<br />3) Her weapon looks quite good and slings over her back well. The look mimics the movie/photos nicely.<br />4) The book itself, despite some flaws in the bounty hunter storylines, does have a bit of detail to it. An experienced person might even learn a couple of facts, plus there's a listing of many and many a bounty hunter item that's been released over the years.<br />5) The box itself is actually interesting, depicting the past and the present hunters in all their glory. I liked it because it holds the book and the figure easily, allowing you access without destroying the packaging.<br />Its a piece that will surprise you, actually, once you have it and get to sit around in admiration. I would highly recommend it.	2002-06-17
US	37053389	R3LAR1J5ACOR64	1569712263	191038058	Hellboy: Wake the Devil	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Homunculus + Horror, Adding To the Cast	Wake the Devil is a superb second take on the Hellboy saga and is just as good, if not better, than Seeds of Destruction (its hard to compare the two because both are so good). Its a bit more bleak/darker than its prior, introducing even odder concepts and distortions of myth to weave a story all its own. Yes, it seems there are Nazi plots galore for everyone's favorite paranormal investigator to deal with, not to mention the addition of Roger, B.P.R.D.'s first \\"contact\\" with a human-sized homunculus. Also included is a five-page epilogue dealing with Baba Yaga and The World Tree, a concept introduced in the comics but only added to the in this graphic novel forum. The graphic novels also clean up the coloration, giving you more crisp images than the comics could ever dream of.<br />A word of caution to those thinking that the numbered books can be taken out of sequential order without hurting the storyline. It can indeed be done, but Wake the Devil should be a second step taken in the reading \\"evolution\\" of the Hellboy saga because of some of the characters/events/plot lines started have either been groomed or are birthed here.	2002-06-15
US	37053389	R1W1S4WKMPRB8B	155949686X	631041822	Hellboy 2003 Calendar	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Caution: A Mystery Product	It took me a little while to figure out what exactly this product was, but thanks to Hellboy.com - Future comics and projects, I found out it was a calandar. According to hellboy.com/hbfuture.html, it is the following:<br /> &quot;Tide Mark's comic art calendars include 12 full-color illustrations. Hellboy calendar. Produced by Tide-Mark. Solicited on page 368 of the April issue of Previews. 10-1/2&quot; x 13-3/4&quot; in dimension.&quot;<br />There are some examples of illustrations as well, plus a few more available here and there. All in all its nice if your a Hellboy fan, but not nice if you don't know what it is.	2002-06-13
US	37053389	R39C1RLLPUBZL	1569713162	673687494	Hellboy Volume 1: Seed of Destruction (Hellboy (Pocket eBook))	Books	5	44	48	N	Y	Its more than Seeds of Destruction!	Seeds of Destruction is a nice place to begin because it deals with where Hellboy hails from, no pun intended, plus its actually one of Mignola's more heavily Lovecraftian tales. The coloration is also darker in graphic novel form, giving it more of more horror appeal than the pervious comic releases did. There are more than enough Nazis, plots leading into the next Graphic Novel (Wake the Devil) to want you to go on without stranding you in a half-read story, not to mention the fact that its so wonderfully dark.<br />  Something that all other reviews seem to be leaving out, something that affected my purchase of this particular graphic novel for a while, is the fact that it isn't simply the Seeds of Destruction story. Included within it are also two other stories, earlier works of Mignola, that are oftentimes overlooked and are quite the pain to find in their original formats.<br />1) This is a story from San Diego Comic-Con Comics #2, a little tale involving squibs of storyline and drying up towns in the desert, not to mention Anubis.<br />2) There's another story from Comic's Buyer's Guide dealing with Herman Von Klempt, everyone's favorite Nazi \\"Nazi head in a bottle\\" and his Brutus, his super gorilla.<br />Also included is a little section entitled \\"Where did Hellboy come from?,\\" a section delving into the early promotional art showing Hellboy off, plus some nice pictures by artists including Art Adams and Gary Gianni.<br />  Tentacled things = Happiness!	2002-06-13
US	37053389	R2WXOT2SMEX2A9	0697048985	616951673	How to Know the Spiders (Pictured Key Nature)	Books	5	112	114	N	N	Not Your Average Spider Book	Many books written on arachnids are basically recycled jargon boring the reader with misinformation and \\"common sense\\" wife's tales. This book, however, was an exception to the rule. The author seems to actually know the subject matter, getting past the \\"basics\\" very quickly and introducing you to virtually every family of spider and all of their distinguishing features. Also included are several odd footnotes about the arachnid that I found very useful and that I hadn't seen elsewhere.<br />The books includes areas on:<br />1) where to find spiders<br />2) how you should go about collecting and preserving them<br />3) parasites and other enemies the spider has<br />4) the anatomy of the arachnid and how to recognize their sex<br />5) some useful information about the wondrous effects of spider venom<br />6) a guide on how to actually study spiders<br />7) the lists of families and higher categories of all spiders (including pictures of the families that are commonly found)<br />I personally found it to be an interesting read and would say that anyone interested in Entomology or simply looking into spiders should give it peek. You might thank yourself one day.	2002-06-12
US	37053389	R1HXZS0UQX9L7N	1569714894	378742525	Hellboy: Right Hand of Doom	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Remedy for Even the ParaAbnormal	The Adventures of Hellboy have gone through many different venues, from short stories collected in obscure DHP issues to one shot trials that are oftentimes easy to miss. Still, many of these are important when trying to understand the entirety of the Hellboy saga, and other, less crucial stories are still worth reading. That's why I'm glad to see the Trade Paperbacks The Chain Coffin and Others and The Right Hand of Doom. Between the two, you can find so many things that are nearly impossible to find.<br />In the Right Hand of Doom, you get:<br />1) Pancakes, a short comical approach to Hellboy's youth involving pancakes and hell's fate. Also, it appears in color for the first time here.<br />2) The Nature of the Beast, a DHP story involving the testing of Hellboy, a dilemma with a dragon, and blood that turns into lilies. Definitely good, and in color for the first time.<br />3) King Vold, a tale meshing many Norwegian tales together into a very entertain story pitting Hellboy against man's great adversary, human greed.<br />4) Heads, from Abe Sapien: Drums of the Dead (a comic you should definately pick up because the Abe Sapien story hasn't been reproduced), involves Hellboy's encounter with Japanese folklore and floating heads. Its really nice looking.<br />5) Goodbye, Mister Tod, from Gary Gianni's The Monstermen, a tale that meshes more Lovecraftian themeage than normal into Hellboy's life.<br />6) The Varcolac, a completely redone piece that first appeared in Dark Horse Extra, something nice in its new version but not as good in its original. Here's a tale involving Romanian vampires that, according to Mignola's knowledge of folklore, \\"eats the sun and the moon and is able to cause eclipses.\\"<br />7) The Right Hand of Doom, a story leading into a pivotal part in the understanding of just what's going on in Hellboy, mentioning his hand and its origins. It makes its first appearance here in color.<br />8) Box Full of Evil, a wonderful story that explains the \\"beast of the apocalypse\\" connotations floating around Hellboy all the time, complete with an extra four page epilogue to help out with clarity.<br />This is a wonderful collection of tales, and is really worth reading for the Hellboy fan and newcomer alike. To say it strays from the atypical would be an understatement.ocalypse\\" connotations floating around Hellboy all the time, complete with an extra four page epilogue to help out with clarity. <BR>This is a wonderful collection of tales, and is really worth reading for the Hellboy fan and newcomer alike. To say it strays from the atypical would be an understatement.	2002-05-17
US	37053389	R3ETMIB8BH869Q	1569713499	695074754	Hellboy: The Chained Coffin and Others	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Filling in the Gaps	First, I have to begin this by saying that I am a bit bias when it comes to Mike Mignola. I do enjoy his Hellboy work, and recommend it to anyone who likes Lovecraftian influences meshed with Nazi conspiracies and other, even more bizarre, tidbits of folklore.<br />With The Chained Coffin and Others, I had read the reviews here and had noticed the gaps left in the questioning mind. For instance, I couldn't find a complete listing of what was compiled here, nor did the reviews truly state how good some of the stories, especially the Baba Yaga only printed here, actually were. So, here's a brief listing of the stories a few notes:<br />1) The Corpse: A baby goes missing and a deal has to be struck to return it. And how hard is it to bury a corpse anyway?<br />2) The Iron Shoes: This seemed more like filler, actually, but is still not all that bad.<br />3) The Baba Yaga: I like this story a lot, and had to have it. Unfortunately, it was only available in this TPB. If you read Wake the Devil, you'll want this side story, because references made are gaps to be filled in order to complete the entire Hellboy picture.<br />4) Christmas Underground: Spirits looming, a castle under siege by some strange curse, and Hellboy Claus? Besides being creepy, it also provides a little laughter.<br />5) The Chained Coffin: A true gem, presenting the origins of Hellboy (not to be confused with \\"how Hellboy arrive on Earth\\") in a most interesting format. Even people who have the original presentation of this should check it out, because the first page has been revamped a bit. Beautiful.<br />6) Wolves of Saint August: All the pieces of this tale needed to be collected somewhere, so I'm happy for this. As the name implies, something Lupine plagues a town and Hellboy has to investigate. The backgrounding to this story is nice, in addition to the normal Mignola features.<br />7) Almost Colossus: Another needed piece if you want to understand the inner workings of the BPRD. Here, an addition is made to the cast, and \\"he\\" almost ends to life of two field agents right from the get-go. It is referenced to a lot, and is definitely worth checking out.<br />Anyway, like I said, I am biased. Still, if you like Hellboy, even a little, this is a nice collection that is extremely inclusive. The only problem is finding a copy of it.he cast, and \\"he\\" almost ends to life of two field agents right from the get-go. It is referenced to a lot, and is definitely worth checking out.<BR>Anyway, like I said, I am biased. Still, if you like Hellboy, even a little, this is a nice collection that is extremely inclusive. The only problem is finding a copy of it.	2002-05-17
US	37053389	R1MP3KSF2NWR5Z	091498425X	811024989	The Truth about Dungeons & Dragons with Cassette(s)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	This Crackhead Got My Books Burned	Back &quot;in the day,&quot; when the fervor for burning books was running rampant, this author, along with a few others, helped fuel a hysteria that led to my books (now replaced and lovingly guarded by row after row of barbs and teeth, plus the occasional demon the &quot;not-a-game&quot; helped me conjure) and fire meeting. For that reason and that reason alone, I gave this book the &quot;1&quot; middle finger. Were it not for this point, however, I would have given it a four, because I laughed and laughed at what foolish things mortal put in print. It seems they are willing to believe in anything, from games summoning demons to books holding powers cosmic. Personally, I think someone should start a campaign burning volumes such as this. I don't think it would matter, though, because the people involved in these works apparently aren't interested in literacy and the art of reading without a match anyhow.	2002-04-04
US	37053389	R3Q0BJMEOKYHOJ	0553574922	273669742	Music of the Spears: Aliens Series	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Mozart and the Hive	This novel, because of its unique perspective and oddly toned outlook on the Alien influence on human behavior, is a must read for anyone who finds the alien appealing. Here, we are introduced to a type of obsessive that differs from any of the previous people encountered (in the reasoning behind his actions, that is), while still touching on that all-too-understood corporate manipulation approach. (Personally, I like this left in the storylines because it stays true to the original movie and makes an interesting social observation) Here, we find ourselves immersed in the \\"modern\\" music industry, where bands are produced, cloned, and so on, with our main character wanting something different. He wants to make music Alien style. So, with the help of Mozart and a bit of Xeno-Zip, he voyages into realms that are ultra yummy in a dark, foreboding sense.<br />This book, because of the author's style and the approach that the book takes, truly stands on its own. Everyone should check it out.	2002-03-16
US	37053389	R1XYMQA54RZNE4	156971245X	488308291	Aliens: Labyrinth (Dark Horse Collection)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Living the Hive Life	Having been a fan of the Alien movies (for the most part, anyhow)and the comic adaptations, it seemed a sure bet that the novel would also be something worthy of at least a look. While I seemed to eat my words on some of those books, this one in particular was leaps and bounds above the rest. In fact, some of the movies, especially the last, could have taken a few notes from the novel.<br />The story basically follows Col. Doctor Paul Church along his pathways that seemed intertwined with Aliens, from the experiments we find him introduced with to the younger, more gruesome, experiences he had while being taken into a diseased hive. If you like the concept of the Alien and want to learn more about them, what better way could there be to study their sociology that with a completely disturbed tour guide like Church.<br />Its worth checking out in paperback and in graphic novel form. Some of it is actually quite chilling.	2002-03-15
US	37053389	RLLI93BRTD3H9	1569711674	700804854	Superman vs. Aliens	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Would the Alien have &quot;superpowers&quot;?	At first, I wasn't really certain if an &quot;Alien vs. Superman&quot; title would work. I pictured the &quot;man of steel&quot; bumbling into the standard hive situation only to tear through those poor xenon as they tried to protect their own. That seems to be the favorite in crossovers such as this, with the superheroes simply going in a &quot;romp&quot; those poor unfortunates without superpowers. ( Personally, if I wanted to throw my money away, I'd do something constructive like burn it.) In this case, however, the situation was hardly in Superman's favor.<br />From the beginning, the creators found a way to level the playing field a bit, putting Superman on an all &quot;too human&quot; playing field for him to simply overwhelm. In fact, he seemed to be having problems just matching up with our beloved Aliens. The situation, as it was laid out, worked for me, too, and wasn't really too far of a stretch, either. I would go into more detail, but that's what the book is for. From there, it just got worse and worse for everyone's favorite kick-around boy, leading to Superman actually getting a bit touchy-feely with one of those wonderful throat molesters.<br />I liked the title alot and would recommend it to anyone who enjoyed the Aliens (I would say the Aliens movies, but we all know that some were a bit lacking). Buy it for your kids and give them nightmares worth remembering!	2002-03-15
US	37053389	R2E72YBA130QK1	0446602299	206371248	Alien(TM): Resurrection (Seafort Saga)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Book vs. The Movie	After seeing the movie, I didn't know if I could bring myself to read this book. All those flawed places, complete with a flawed ending, really left a person wanting. Still, the book was a gift and I really do need my Xeno-Xip, so I decided reading it would be for the best. Yes, I read and read and wondered exactly why this was so good and the movie was so bad. The book filled in most of those huge holes that the movie left open, and it made me wish I would have just jumped here instead of burning money at the movies. That couldn't happen, though, and I'm glad the book was there to pick up those poor, sequel-shattered pieces.	2002-03-15
US	37053389	RQ04UOT1B8QX5	1569711291	569678641	Battle of the Bounty Hunters (Star Wars) [Pop-up Comic Book]	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Money vs. Merchandise	First, I have to say that I haven't purchased a popup book in twelve plus years, and was happy to see Boba Fett's exploits placed in this format. It reminded me of the first time I saw Boba Fett as a kid, and that was a nice, though seldom experienced, sensation. The problem with this piece was that it really didn't have that much content and the price, for eighteen dollars, averages out to a buck fifty a page. Moreover, most of these images have already been displayed in other comic forums. Still, being a popup book, you really can't expect too much from the story (even though I thought Dark Horse might provide a little substance, and I can forgive the redundancy of the images. I liked it, but I'm not so certain I would tell anyone to buy it for the cover cost.	2002-03-14
US	37053389	R3QR5NX4AEIY2O	1569713405	509405258	Hammer: One Big Lie	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Holding back the stars	Kelley Jones should have gotten more recognition for his work in the wonderful world of Cthuluian lore. Here we have yet another adaptation of H.P.'s brainchild being meshed into popular culture, and Kelley doesn't simply give you yet another boring take we've seen a million times over. Anyone who likes their monsters loathsome, their heroes a bit deranged, and their works of art Lovecraftian will enjoy this. Even if you just like the horror take, I think you'll be pleasantly surprised by what Jones brings to the table.	2002-03-10
US	37053389	R2IBNWOUR963VN	1569716994	123138245	Hellboy: Conqueror Worm	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Mikey's Lovecraftian Playpen (O that Yummy Darkness)	Anything Mignola does these days, especially anything having to do with Hellboy, drips Lovecraft. The Conqueror Worm, though borrowing from Poe and a few others as well, is no exception to the Lovecraftian rule. You can see this in the way Mikey has managed to prefect his style, in everything from the foreboding ways he drips shadows into pictures to the means by which he manages to places something sinister within each and every storyline.<br />  This newest edition introduces everyone's favorite antagonists, the occult driven Nazis, in their newest attempt at subordinating the world. Sixty years ago, the Nazis launched a mission into space to contact beings in space that \\"wait to celebrate the downfall of man.\\" Somehow communication was established and a deal was struck, and now it returns as the doom of man - the Conqueror Worm. Certain nemesis's to BPRD's plights return for this story, plus Hellboy comes with his friend Roger the Homunculus, developing a tale that continues in the proudly readable Hellboy tradition.<br />  Also, this TPB edition has an epilogue added to it, one that brings a semi-conclusion to events that have been transpiring for some time now. Coupling this with the fact that the transfer from comic to TPB brought about a more defined, crisply darker feeling, I'd have to recommend it for consumption by old fans and new ones alike (just try to read them in order).	2002-03-07
US	37053389	R2O48NLXFAIMQY	0312868677	589421647	Titus Crow, Volume 1: The Burrowers Beneath; The Transition of Titus Crow	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Burrowers plus boredom	As I read The Burrowers Beneath, I found myself actually drawn to the main character, Titus Crow, and his companion, Henri-Laurent de Marginy. In fact, the Lovecraftian texture of this story, complete with Shub-Niggurath and a drove of accounts about his followers, carried me through this tale with ease. Twined within the story are cryptic tales of mishap brought on by these busy little bees (if you can call slug-like vampiric beings with no head bees), plus an exploit involving the &quot;big guy&quot; himself. Here, you also find yourself introduced to a new breed of rebellion brought on by those prior, and most of the time tragic, Cthuluian playthings, led by our main man, one Mr. Peaslee. Delving inside this group who have worked through translations of long discarded tombs, you find new and unique way to fight back against those deadly star-fiends, even going so far as to confront a few &quot;men to beast.&quot; If the book would have ended here, I would have given it five stars!<br />That said, the book had The Transition of Titus Crow placed inside as well, which turned out to be a page turner only after sleep visited me and gravity played its dirty tricks. Here, we follow the exploits of Titus as he rides the waves of time and space on his wonderful time-travelling clock, a tale just as loathsome and boring as it sounds. Still, Burrowers Beneath is a good read and, if you set the book down directly afterward, you'll find your purchase a fine one..	2002-02-26
