US	37063148	R2ZJVGW8PHF7VR	0465044263	772988533	What Evolution Is (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	9	16	N	Y	Ok , But In Need of Editing	In \\"What Evolution Is\\" Ernst Mayr seeks to provide an overview of contemporary evolutionary theory to the non-specialist reader.  Mayr is a widely respected figure in the area of evolutionary biology having contributed to the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis or Neo-Darwinian Theory (NDT) as it is more commonly known.     Unfortunately, what struck me most about the book was its poor editing.  Given Mayr's intended audience there is too much unnecessary technical terminology  - the glossary is modestly helpful.   Removal of the jargon when it is not required (often) and inclusion of a few clarifying comments when technical precision is required (occasionally) would make it more accessible to the general reader.  In its current state someone with subject matter expertise will be able to tract the discussion without much difficulty; the lay reader, however, may find this a tough slog.    Also with regard to editing, the author is prone to abruptly introducing comments that appear to have little or unclear relevance (particularly in the early chapters).  At one point Mayr boldly suggests that the NDT has addressed ancient philosophical questions regarding chance and necessity.  I am sure he has a point, but the way it is written it comes off as muddled and foolish. He suggests that the mutation aspect of NDT is \\"undetermined\\" whereas natural selection aspect is \\"determined\\".  This may be somewhat true from a \\"common language\\" perspective but it has no apparent relevance to the deeper philosophical issue which he seems to be referring  - i.e. if one new all the facts about the world at a given time would the future be determined?  Given the metaphysically closed system advocated by the author, genetic mutation though tremendous complex must be deterministic in an ontological sense.  These types of musings either need clarification or removal.  As a result of these structural shortcomings at times the book reads like an early draft.     Once one gets pastthe editing issues I found some of Mayr's comments helpful.  Overall he does a good job of laying out an overview of NDT - again tighter editing would further strengthen this aspect.  The section on natural selection is particularly lucid and well handled.  The author's comments regarding the discrepancy between evolutionary theory and evidence is commendable.  Take for example the fossil record, in accordance with the theory there should be innumerable transitional forms - these transitional forms are absence from the fossil record which is characterized by abrupt appearances of new species and long periods of stasis.  I agree with Mayr's point that given the nature of fossils (i.e. how they are formed, persevered and discovered) it is unreasonable to expect a complete record of evolutionary change.  The current near vacuum of these transitory forms is puzzling and I think more of a challenge that Mayr admits- one would think that by serendipity alone we would have uncovered a sizable sample of \\"missing links\\". Similar discrepancies are apparent between the actual and NDT proposed tree of life.  These discontinuities may eventually be overcome - until then the tension between NDT theory and evidence is not easily dismissed.    Not to be overly critical, but, the book did seem somewhat dated in that it did not engage many of the recent challenges to Darwinism (from either inside or outside the evolutionary camp).  NDT is Mayr's baby so he is understandably proud of it, however, some mention of current challenges and recommendations for further reading would be helpful.  He does make some anti-creationism recommendations, however, all except one of these books pre-date the current Intelligent Design firestorm (I have not read it - it may be helpful).      Although I appreciate Mayr faith he slips into what could be most kindly called exaggeration when speaking of the evidence for NDT.  Early on he boldly states that NDT is as much a scientific fact as the heliocentrity of our solar system.  Don't get me wrong, I think some reasonable arguments can be mustered in support of NDT - this analogy is unfortunately absurd.  Think about what it would take to disprove our view of a heliocentric solar system!  NDT on the other hand, though an elegant theory would be comparatively easy to modify.  The use of Hackel's embryos as support for NDT is also probably a mistake- given their recent discreding.   Mayr does add some qualification in this regard but, in light of comments by Gould et al the embryonic line of reasoning seems to offer little significant support for NDT.      Indeed, one of the challenges with NDT seems to be how could it be disproved.  It strikes me that for some Neo-Darwinists (Mayr may be one)there are no conceivable naturalistic facts that could not be harmonized with the theory - if this is the case, it seems that we are no longer talking science but rather religion.  If presented with current questions (sub-cellular complexity, potentially irreductable mechanisms, mathematical improbability of NDT, convergance, accumulation of information in DNA, etc.) one could rightly ask if Darwin himself would believe in NDT. I am not arguing that NDT is impossible, nor, that a good portion of this introductory book should be dedicated to combating opposing views.  The point is that NDT has a growing numbers of opponents and challenges-  there is no hint of this in Mayr's writing.  As a result, the book has the feel of a \\"faith-based\\" apology - and not a especially strong one.      Overall, the book is average at best and needs editing.  Looking at my review, I think I may sound a little too negative - this is not a terrible book.  I'm disappointed; given Mayr stature this could have been a stronger and much better work.  That said, it may still be worth a look for readers interested in evolutionary theory.  I cannot, however, recommend it as an introduction for the general reader.	2005-09-24
US	37063148	R3MF5XOGRB5L2W	0198269544	654041528	The Canon of the New Testament: Its Origin, Development, and Significance	Books	4	52	54	N	Y	Good Introduction to Subject	Bruce Metzger's \\"The Cannon of the New Testament\\" is an introductory-level overview of the development of the New Testament.  Metzger is one of the best-known and most-respected contemporary writers in this area.<br /><br />The author approaches the subject from a conservative academic perspective - his comments are reflective of mainstream New Testament scholarship.  Given the text's  introductory nature it does not advocate for any particular historical school of thought, but rather provides a relatively neutral starting point for readers.  For readers new to serious New Testament study it does offer a reasoned antidote to some of the silliness that periodically pops at the popular level (e.g. components of Christian Cannon were arbitrarily selected under Roman state direction, many equally valid historic Gospels were suppressed, etc.).  Metzger rightly notes that there are no compelling reasons for doubting the traditional view of cannon development - i.e. books were canonized because of their wide spread use and acceptance by the early church.<br /><br />Some earlier reviewers have criticised Metzger as being biased.  I must say that I am a strong supporter of open and honest discourse  - my concern with these specific comments is that they appear to be largely based on Metzger being a Christian rather than his work (their comments on the handling of Thomas and Mark are misleading - Metzger actually offers comparatively liberal comments on both points).  This type of argument based on a writer's supposed religious beliefs are not helpful - it is prejudice.  I appreciate that at times personal attacks can be tempting and even have some short-term success.  In the long-run, however, they inhibit civil discourse and contribute to intolerance toward those who do not share our views.<br /><br />Overall, the book is an excellent starting point for all readers interested in the development of the New Testament.  I highly recommended it to all students of religious studies or ancient history as well as the general reader.  For readers seeking further, F.F. Bruce also has done some good introductory level work in this area.	2005-09-20
US	37063148	R2F73L5C8FD0LY	0802817319	369792068	God, Freedom, and Evil	Books	4	33	37	N	Y	A Small Classic	God, Freedom and Evil is a short work, originally published in the mid-1970s, wherein Plantinga addresses issues pertaining to the existence of God.  The book draws upon the author's prior works,  \\"The Nature of Necessity\\" and \\"God and Other Minds\\".  For readers new to this area of thought Plantinga is one of the most widely respected and read contemporary philosophers. <br /> <br />A large part of the book is dedicated the so-called problem of evil.  That is, the question of whether or not the existence of evil is compatible with the existence of an all-knowing all-powerful and wholly good God.  In addressing this issue Plantinga focuses on the question of whether evil and God can logically co-exist - it is not a theodicy which seeks to explain the existence of evil.  With regard the former more modest question the author is quite successful in proving that evil and God are not incompatible as had been previously argued - written nearly 30 years ago it has yet to be challenged in any significant way.  Plantinga can rightfully take credit in helping this question largely disappear amongst serious thinkers.   Arguments in this area now tend to be focused on the level of evil rather than its mere existence (i.e. is there too much evil to be consistent with the existence of God).  As an earlier reader commented, I too find the author's argument about transworld depravity awkward - it removal, however, does not serious impact Plantinga position. <br /> <br />In the remainder of the book Plantinga offers some brief thoughts on the classic arguments of natural theology - I found this part of the book less helpful.  Plantinga indicates that he finds the ontological argument more compelling than either the argument from design or the cosmological argument.  I tend to disagree with his views in this regard.  Although with time I increasingly appreciate a certain force behind the ontological argument, it still strikes me somewhat as an artificial linguistic construct.  On theother hand, I find the other two arguments more compelling than Plantinga does (I share his thought that, even if successful, the cosmological argument can offer little on the nature of God).  To be fair to Plantinga, this work was composed prior to recent scientific developments that have strengthened the argument from design (particularly in the world of cosmology but, also to a limited degree in the biological sciences).  A look at some of Plantinga's more recent work is also worthwhile. <br /> <br />Overall a good short book by an outstanding philosopher who effectively altered the argument surrounding the existence of evil.  I highly recommend this book to all students of philosophy and religion.  J.L. Mackie's \\"The Miracle of Theism is also worth a look for a dissenting view. <br />	2005-09-13
US	37063148	R3M6VNP3Y0CLJQ	1880582244	881989203	Not by Chance! Shattering the Modern Theory of Evolution	Books	3	49	66	N	N	Solid Discussion	\\"Not by Chance\\" by Lee Spetner is another of the many popular-level books challenging Neo-Darwinian Theory (NDT).  A physicist by profession, the author employs mathematical analysis to highlight weaknesses in current evolutionary theory.  I offer the following comments for potential readers. <br /> <br />The author's argument focuses on what is known as macro-evolution (speciation and the broad development of bio-diversity) rather than more modest and widely accepted micro-evolution (variation within existing species - dogs, bacteria, etc.).  Some would argue that this division is arbitrary, and, the two categories are in fact just different aspects of the same process (i.e. a collection of small micro-evolutionary steps culminate in macro-evolutionary change) - Spetner disputes this view. <br /> <br />The application of statistical probability and information theory to NDT is enlightening.  Spetner makes a strong argument for the improbability of NDT when it is examined at sub-cellular level.  The author uses statistical probability to argue that macro-evolution is vastly more unlikely that many events that are commonly considered to be impossible.  Although these types of arguments will not likely carry the day with orthodox Darwinists - they can be quite powerful to the uninitiated. <br /> <br />The author applies his rigorous analysis to many aspects of evolutionary theory with similar effect.  For example, Convergence (independent development of similar features - wings, echo location, eyes, etc.) has long been recognized as an ackward fit for NDT.  Again, applying statistical analysis, Spetner notes that the likelihood of these features developing independently through random mutation and natural selection is almost incomprehensible.  Indeed, citing varied research he suggests that there appears to be evidence of environmental triggered adaptive change.  This is an interesting area that warrants further examination - unfortunately this appears to be an excessively dangerous question in the current climate.   <br /> <br />A couple of minor criticisms.  The book has a chapter on sub-cellular genetic structures that may be helpful to lay readers - while a good thought it be could improved (a few more diagrams would add to its value).  Additionally, while Spetner's detailed analysis is appreciated, it can move a bit too quickly in spots and as a result his style is occasionally choppy.   <br /> <br />Overall, a solid discussion of NDT that is a worthwhile read.  For readers interested in the author, Spetner has a range of material published on the Internet (the correspondence/debate with Max is particularly interesting).  For readers new to this issue works by Dawkins (e.g. The Blind Watch Maker) and Johnson (e.g. Darwin on Trial) may be helpful in framing the current debate. <br />	2005-09-07
US	37063148	R2KX17ULWT2K3Z	0262661659	864767463	Tower of Babel: The Evidence Against the New Creationism (A Bradford Book)	Books	2	31	55	N	N	Does Not Engage Current Debate	Written in 1999, Robert Pennock's 'Tower of Babel' participates in the on-going debate regarding contemporary evolutionary theory.  The book appears to have been in significant part motivated by resurgent challenges to neo-Darwinism (many of which are captured under the category of Intelligent Design [ID]).  For those unfamiliar with the author, Pennock is an American philosopher and out spoken supporter of Darwinism.  Overall, Tower of Babel is not a bad book (Pennock is a capable author with an agreeable writing style).  Given many of the glowing reviews, however, I was expecting a stronger effort. I was generally disappointed with the author's choice of content and his tone.    With regard to content, I had expected the book to focus on the issues raised by ID (e.g. weakness in neo-Darwinism and arguments in favor of design).   Though the author touches on these questions, a great amount of his time is spent refuting Morris, Gish et al and so-called Young Earth Creationists (YECs).  For readers new to this issue, these are the folks who take a more-or-less literal view of the Bible.  While their arguments may be interesting, they are not the crux of the current discussion of evolutionary theory.  I agree with Pennock that some discussion of the YEC position is needed to establish the context for ID challenge.  Once the stage was set I feel that the book would have been more helpful if it would have focused on ID - I believe the questions it raise warrant a reasoned discussion.  Pennock's intermixing of ID and YEC throughout the text is misleading and appears to be largely a rhetorical tool - group all challenges together and use widely accepted 'scientific facts' to refute the weakest aspects of this strawman.      Though intellectually disappointing, this type of rhetorical approach can sometimes be effective with readers who have not interacted with the opposing view.  Pennock has been involved in debates and discussions with some of these ID folks and knows better.  To refer to Behe, Berlinski, Denton, Johnson et al as reactionary Christian literalists is at best seriously misleading.  Berlinski and Denton are agnostic and Behe and Johnson are not biblical literalists - Behe even accept common ancestry.  Certainly, in the evolutionary debate one can find examples where faith views are evident (atheist and theist) - the major issue here is the validity and explanatory power of neo-Darwinian theory  - Pennock knows this.      Some reviewers have commented on Pennock's respectful tone.  I do not share this view, although he makes passing comments in this regard he does not walk the talk.  The book is replete with sarcasm and disdain - referring to opposing views as cartoon-ish and alleging that they have some dangerous anti-intellectual agenda.  His comments with regard to Philip Johnson; in particular struck me as a bit too emotional and personal.  When he wrote this book, Pennock was still relatively inexperienced and may have got carried away in the moment - I have not read anything from him recently.    Pennock's discussion of the differences between metaphysical and methodological naturalism is helpful.  I share the author's view on this point, however I wonder if his openness to larger ontological ambiguity is widely shared amongst orthodox Darwinian supporters.  With regard to the language analogy, while I found it interesting and creative it struck me as another 'just so story' that added little.  The evolution of language is interesting subject, but beyond a superficial level sheds little light on a purely naturalistic process - language development is characterized by adaptive intelligence - us.    I share Pennock view that the high school science curriculum is an important question that should be discussed - I do not think that he handled the issue very well.  The dangers posed by a more open discussion of evolutionary theory are grossly overstated.  I fail to understand what the risk is in publicly recognizing that Neo-Darwinism has apparent weaknesses and opponents (this has been the case through out its existence).  From my perspective, the greater risk is making a theory impervious to challenge for metaphysical reasons - in this case because it is seen as supporting an atheistic worldview.  This would be analogous to physicists refusing to except the Big Bang model purely because of it potential metaphysical implications. When challenges arise they needed to be engaged and reasoned with the confidence that the truth will prevail    Overall, I feel the book is off the mark with regard to the current discussion.  It offers a reasonable counter to YECs but does not seriously represent or engage contemporary challenges to Darwinism.  For readers seeking a start in this area I would recommend Finding Darwin's God by Miller (Pro Darwin) and Doubts about Darwin by Woodward (overview of ID).	2005-08-26
US	37063148	R3OEHV9MAXRVSI	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good Historic Look at Scopes Trial	From an American perspective the 1925 Scopes \\"Monkey Trial\\" is often considered the trial of the twentieth century.  It had colorful personalities, Charles Darrow (the famous trial lawyer) and William Jennings Bryan (former presidential candidate and noted progressive reformer) as well as issues that captured the imagination (science versus religion and majority rule versus individual rights).  In \\"Summer For the Gods\\" legal historian Edward Larson accesses a variety of primary and secondary sources to re-examine the 1925 case and the myths that have grown up around it.    <br /> <br />One of the clear strengths of Larson's book is its discussion of the historical context of the Scopes case.  His description of the social and political tensions that existed at the time is helpful in understanding the trail and its significance.  The Scopes trial is often caricaturized in popular circles as a struggle between religious reactionaries on the one hand and supporters of scientific progress on the other hand.   Although as Larson points out, there were certainly religious issues surrounding the case, it was prosecuted on the grounds of majority rule versus individual rights not the merits of evolutionary theory.  Encouraged by the ACLU, the case was initiated by the defence - primarly as a publicity stunt. <br /> <br />From my perspective, though always difficult, the historic reconstruction of the key characters seems reasonably balanced.  In particular, Bryan's reputation has suffered as a result of the myths that have grown up around the trial.  No doubt Bryan had his flaws, not the least of which was his love for the spotlight - which probably contributed to him agreeing to take the stand and speak outside his area of expertise.  It is also clear that though Bryan was a Christian he was far from a raving reactionary.  In fact, as students of history know Bryan was a progressive thinker and activist politician who was at the forefront of many social movements as well as being an early anti-war activist (resigned as Secretary of State over US decision to enter WWI).  In the 1920s social evolution and eugenics were closely tied to Darwinism - Bryan was concerned about the implications of these developments.  In fact, with regard to the trial Bryan's focus centered on the question of populism versus individual rights.  Charles Darrow is also portrayed as a social reformer of types, however, one who's reputation had been sullied by several high profile criminal cases.  Darrow was perceived as the Johnnie Cochrane of his day -capable but perhaps more concerned with winning than with justice.  <br /> <br />Perhaps the most valuable contribution of Larson's is its counter to the flawed and fictitious depictions of the case in works such as \\"Inherit the Wind\\" and \\"Only Yesterday\\".  In general Larson does commendable work in producing an accessible and credible historical analysis of the Scopes trial.  Although it is apparent that the author is not a supporter of conservative Christianity he remains sufficiently neutral to avoid alienating most readers.   <br /> <br /> I recommend the book for students of American history as well as for readers seeking more context regarding the current evolutionary debate.  It is the best book-length discussion of the Scopes case that I have come across. <br /> <br />	2005-08-23
US	37063148	R1OUR8YW0P3CLJ	0872201929	710786505	Meditations on First Philosophy (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic of Modern Western Philosophy	Rene Descartes' Meditations on First Philosophy is arguably the starting point for much of modern western philosophy.  This short work comprises approximately 60 pages.  Potential buyers should note that it does not include the \\"Objections and Replies\\" portion that is available in some other editions.<br /><br />Although there are many important and helpful philosophical works, Meditations is probably one of the few must read for students of philosophy.  Cress' translation does a commendable job of allowing readers to interact with this significant historic text.  In Meditations Descartes touches on many key philosophical questions, the role of scepticism, the existence of God and mind-body dualism.  This short 17th Century text is by no means an exhaustive examination of these issues - its value is largely the historical context it provides.  Its arguements have, however, held up remarkably well over time.<br /><br />Overall a true classic - I highly recommend it.  This short book is a handy reference and good value.  Some readers, however, may wish to consider purchasing Meditations as part of a broader collection.	2005-08-19
US	37063148	RX2J01RQSS6XD	0801064430	458637354	Doubts About Darwin: A History of Intelligent Design	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Excellent Overview of ID from Rhetorical Perspective	In \\"Doubts About Darwin\\" Thomas Woodward examines the development of the current anti-Darwinist movement known as Intelligent Design (ID).  The author approaches the movement from a rhetorical perspective - discussing how ID advocates have communicated their views.  Though it is clear that Woodward is sympathetic to the anti-Darwin camp, his primary focus is on ID as an intellectual and rhetorical phenomenon. <br /> <br />Woodward examines the rhetoric techniques used by leading figures in the ID movement, primarily; Denton, Johnson and Behe.  I particularly enjoyed the discussion of Philip Johnson.  Whether one agrees with Johnson or not, the courage and energy required to spearhead a revolutionary movement such as ID is admirable.  Readers who have followed this debate may find Woodward's comments about Johnson's interactions with leading evolutionary commentators (such as Raup Ruse and Gould) worthwhile - I found his treatment of the various personalities to be relatively even-handed. <br /> <br />One of the book's more interesting aspects is its examination of evolutionary theory in light Thomas Kuhn's work on scientific paradigms.  I agree with the author that the ID movement has highlighted many of the difficulties associated with Darwinism (e.g. limited empirical evidence for macro evolution, the complexity of sub-cellular organisms, the recognition of the role played by philosophical assumptions).  Despite its weakened explanatory power, however, I think a paradigm shift away from Darwinism will require a more robust alternative than is currently offered by ID.  It is one thing to identify weaknesses in a current theory, it is another to offer an alternative that can capture the imagination.  Theoretical vacuums are problematic and unless a compelling alternative is brought forward Darwinism (warts and all) will likely remain in place - albeit in a weakened state. <br /> <br />Woodward's acknowledgement of the understanding that has developed between academics in the two camps since Denton's initial public challenge to Darwinism in the 1980s is helpful.  It is important that scientific theories remain open to question.  Sometime these challenges will carry the day - sometimes they won't.  When challenges to the status quo come forward they need to be examined and engaged - the truth will prevail.  In the long run, fear mongering and personal attacks are counterproductive and unconvincing instruments of persuasion.   <br /> <br />Overall it is an excellent book.  I highly recommend it to anyone following the ongoing debate on evolutionary theory.  A good starting point for someone new to the issue may be Johnson's Darwin on Trail (a bit dated but helpful) and Miller's Finding Darwin's God (the latter part discussing religion is weak, but, his defence of evolution is well handled). <br />	2005-08-16
US	37063148	R3U070LR25DIDA	0310211395	439197302	Jesus Under Fire: Modern Scholarship Reinvents the Historical Jesus	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Excellent Conservative Protestant Response to Jesus Seminar	Edited by J.P. Moreland and Michael Wilkins, `Jesus Under Fire' is a collection of essays by conservative American Protestant scholars on a range of issues pertaining to Christianity.  First published in the mid-1990s, the book is a response to some of the revisionist views put forward by the Jesus Seminar.  Following are a few thoughts for potential readers on aspects of the work that I thought were particularly well done. <br /> <br />Though not its main thrust, perhaps the book's most valuable contribution to the lay reader is its recognition of the inherently subjective nature of belief.  Although we may not always be conscious of it, our interpretation of the world is influenced by our assumptions and beliefs - or worldview.  This is true regardless of whether one is an atheist, a theist or a scientist.  One worldview that comes into play when discussing the large metaphysical and ontological questions raised by religion is that of philosophical naturalism.  In general, this view posits that reality is limited to the spacio-temporal world and that scientific induction is the primary means to truth (these assumptions are evident in work of the Jesus Seminar).  In accordance with philosophical naturalism, non-naturalistic religious claims are dismissed as misguided or meaningless.  Though this type of worldview is popular in contemporary Western society it is not without logical and epistemological challenges.  For instance, any claim that science is the sole means to truth - is self-refuting since it (uniqueness of scientifically derived truth) is not itself derived through the scientific method.  Although sometimes overlooked recognition of an author's perspective is an important aspect of critical reading. <br /> <br />In his portion, Craig Blomberg does a commendable job of placing the work of the Jesus Seminar within the spectrum of `historic Jesus studies' (for an excellent overview of this subject readers can see Ben Witherington's `The Third Quest'). He notes the drawbacks associated with attempts to delve into ancient history as ascertain the \\"truth\\" is wrought with difficulties.  To sift through data criteria have to be selected - i.e. what types of facts and source will be accepted.  These criteria, in turn, often determine the outcome (e.g. naturalistic assumptions equals naturalistic Jesus).  Blomberg argues that there is no good reason to think that the revisionist interpretations of modern liberal thinkers are preferable to traditional scholarship.  I recommend Bruce or Metzger for readers seeking more on Christian canon (Blomberg has also written in more detail on the subject).   <br /> <br />Darrell Bock's chapter is also helpful.  The Jesus Seminar expends significant time and effort attempting to discern what words traditionally credited to Jesus were actually spoken by him.  Although it may make good press, in and of itself, this type of analysis is rather meaningless.  As Bock points out, the important question is whether the Gospels reflect the true voice (the meaning) of Jesus, not whether they capture his exact syntax and grammar.  Although Bock's comments are salient to religious study they are also useful for the study of history in general.  In our technological age we place an emphasis on technical details that were not stressed in the past. <br /> <br />Overall,`Jesus Under Fire' is the best short collection of essays that I have come across from a conservative protestant perspective.  I highly recommend it to anyone interested in the historic Jesus or Christianity in general.  To get a view from both sides I would also recommend a look at `The Five Gospels' from the Jesus Seminar.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-10
US	37063148	R3NY8H2T40VHEY	0631205888	670361660	Metaphysics: The Big Questions (Philosophy: The Big Questions)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Another Good Anthology in Big Questions Series	Metaphysics: The Big Questions edited by Peter Inwagen and Dean Zimmerman is another strong addition the Blackwell Big Questions series of philosophical anthologies. The text examines a range of metaphysical questions from varied perspectives.  I find this type of approach helpful in giving the reader a relatively quick and balanced introduction to the different subjects. In addition to the articles themselves the editors also provide solid recommendations for further reading.  The topics of discussion include: universals, the nature of time and space, causation, identity, the mind -body problem, free will, existence and the validity of metaphysics.    Although I preferred certain essays to others, most of this is probably more indicative of my tastes than the qualities of the articles.  For example, I do not find Putman very helpful - others may.  I offer two other small criticisms.  First, Rowe's article on the cosmological argument is dated. Given all the excellent recent work done in this area much better is available (interestingly, other Big Question anthologies have used this same article).  Second, I appreciate the temptation to include issues that are considered `contemporary', however, I found the articles by Witt and Flax attempting to examine metaphysics from a post-modern feminist position weak and, detracted from an otherwise excellent anthology.    Overall, despite a few imperfections it is a very useful text.  I recommend it to anyone seeking an overview of metaphysics.	2005-08-10
US	37063148	R30YCDRPU4PPDA	0674016874	55275137	The Evolution-Creation Struggle	Books	3	21	24	N	Y	Nice Tone - But Nothing New	In \\"The Evolution - Creation Struggle\\" well known philosopher and evolutionary commentator Michael Ruse discusses the development of evolutionary science.  I offer the following thoughts to potential readers.    First, it should be noted that this is not a book for readers seeking a rigorous examination of current evolutionary theory.  This work is largely a survey of the historic developments in evolutionary thought and the corresponding responses to these developments.  Ruse's overview of pre-Darwinian evolutionary thought is well done and commendable.  Darwin like many other great thinkers did not work in a vacuum, but instead benefited from the work and effort of his predecessors and contemporaries.  It is useful to recognise the contiguous nature of intellectual progress in an era where the contributions of an individual (no matter how insightful) can often be overstated.     Though he is clearly within the pro-evolutionary camp, Ruse does not hesitate to highlight similarities between Darwinists and creationists.  Similar to Religion, a \\"Darwinian\\" worldview involves faith and offers an ontological framework for adherents.  In examining the current uproar about Darwinism Ruse rightfully acknowledges that many theists are not hostile to evolution (e.g. it could just be the means that God choose to create).  Rather, it appears that it is the grandiose ontological and ethical extrapolations that some commentators draw from Darwinism that raises the ire of sceptics.  Ruse's nuanced voice continues to be a positive force in a discussion that is sometimes characterised by excessive emotion and inflated epistemological claims.  I appreciate the author's intellectual humility - his lack of doctrinal orthodoxy, however, may make his views anathema to some hard-core Darwinists.    Ruse's use of a pre milleniumist/post milleniumist construct to analyze the reactions to evolutionary theory is an interesting but awkward approach. Granted one could argue that many atheistsfall within his post -milleniumist category - focused on progress and improving the here and now.  I find it difficult, however, to shoehorn more than a small minority of theists into the other category.  Although when asked they may indicate that conversion is of paramount importance - their philanthropic actions speak volumes with regard to their concern for, and commitment to, improving the present world.    Ruse only touches on Intelligent Design briefly, however, his comments are useful.  I share some of his musings regarding ID. Is it a science?  Can it be falsified?  What predictive power does it have?   Whether or ID proves to be \\"scientific\\" in the narrow sense of the word, it does serve to highlight many of the challenges facing Darwinism (whether we like it or not).  For instance, regardless of the reducibility of Behe's sub-cellular organisms they do highlight a nagging challenge to contemporary evolutionary theory - time.  Darwin recognized this hurdle in his day when the earth was believed to be only several hundred million years old (we now think that number is closer to 4 billion).  This increased time would sound good if our view of complexity had remained constant.  Unfortunately, complexity has increased by orders of magnitude.  In Darwin's time Aristotle's spontaneous generation theory of life was still popular and cells were seen as relatively simple structures - clearly not the case.  The development of all these complex entities in the allotted time through an undirected mechanism- despite the rhetoric remains significant.         I found Ruse's writing style a bit awkward at times.  For instance, I found his use of poems and quotations overdone - they often added little.  A cynic could argue that the author was padding material that would otherwise have made for a couple of short papers/articles.    Overall, worthwhile, but not Ruse's best work.  His tone is appreciated, as always, however, the book does not bring anything new to the discussion for readers familiar with the issue.	2005-08-04
US	37063148	RMB9M6WV8H2Z4	0060653752	554675126	The Lost Gospel: The Book of Q and Christian Origins	Books	3	64	73	N	N	Interesting Read - Questionable Thesis	Written in the early 1990s, Burton Mack's The Lost Gospel the Book of Q is one of the first popular discussions of the hypothetical Q document.  For those unfamiliar with the author, Mack is a well-known liberal New Testament scholar and writer.        Mack's main thesis is that the existence of a Q document supports the view that the early followers of Jesus were not Christians.  These early followers (or the Q community), he argues, saw Jesus, as an itinerant cynic-like sage rather than a religious figure.  Consequently Mack proposes that the faith tradition we now know as Christianity was a later mythical development.  I offer the following comments for potential readers.    &#61623; Mack's writing is clear, concise and entertaining (he tells a good story).  Within contemporary New Testament scholarsip he is as readable as anyone.    &#61623; The existence of a Q source used by Matthew and Luke has some support amongst scholars.  Beyond this minimal existential point, however, there is much disagreement.  The author's musings with respect to the existence of a Q community and various identifiable layers of Q development are highly speculative.    &#61623; To make his thesis somewhat plausible Mack needs time and space - it is unlikely that a clearly false Christian myth could have developed in close proximity to the historic Jesus (i.e. his followers, and others who knew him, would likely have challenged this development).  To accomplish this, Mack assumes a late dating for the canonical gospels and an early composition of other sources such as the Gospel of Thomas.  Many of his assumptions are not supported by research nor widely accepted.  For example, he suggests that Luke-Acts was composed in the early second century (120 C.E.) as opposed to a more traditional dating of approx 70-75 C.E.  Although a late dating would help Mack's thesis he does not offer any sound support for this assumption.  Indeed, if one were to reassess the dating of Luke-Acts an earlierdate (60s) would seem to be better warranted than Mack's proposed latter date, Paul's death (earlier 60s) and the Temple destruction (70) are curiously absent in a second century construct.      &#61623; A Hellenized Galilean backdrop would also be advantageous to Mack's thesis.  His arguments in this regard and his interpretation of Q to establish a setting conducive to a cynic Jesus appear somewhat contrived and circular.  There is little historic evidence that Galilee, and particularly the countryside and small villages that Jesus frequented, was heavily influenced by Greek culture.  For a contrasting view to Mack's, readers can see Boyd's Cynic Sage or Son of God.    &#61623; Mack appears to be a sincere individual with laudable goals - the plurality of the modern world needs a more flexible and inclusive myth.  For someone with his naturalistic worldview it seems evident that Christianity is a mythical formulation.  Others who do not share this perspective, however, his arguments may be unconvincing.  To make a poor analogy, if you use a net with big holes you are not likely going to catch to many small fish.  If you look for the Christ of faith with rigid naturalistic assumptions you probably won't find him.    Overall, I enjoyed the book.  I think it would make a worthwhile read for any student of the historic Jesus.  It is not, however, a good starting point to enter this area of research - Mack's thesis though interesting is highly speculative and on the fringe of New Testament scholarship.   There are, however, many good starting points -Witherington's The Jesus Quest comes to mind.  It provides a wide survey of contemporary Jesus research including Mack's.	2005-07-12
US	37063148	R2E8SSL0BIFJT9	0345368096	340063580	The Passion of the Western Mind: Understanding the Ideas that Have Shaped Our World View	Books	3	33	49	N	N	Excellent Book - Terrible Epilogue	Richard Tarnas' The Passion of the Western Mind is an overview Western thought from pre-Socratic times to late twentieth century.  Tarnas is professor of philosophy and psychology at the California Institute of Integral Studies in San Francisco.  I offer the following comments for potential readers.     &#61623; It is as good a one-volume overview of Western intellectual history as I have come across.  Tarnas does an excellent good of touching-on nearly all the significant developments in Western thought - being appropriately selective in which areas are explored in greater depth.  The book provides a good background for new students of philosophy as well as some helpful connectivity for those who has been exposed to some of the different topics    &#61623; The discussion of Greek thought is especially noteworthy.  His analysis of Plato and Aristotle (their continuities and discontinuities) is highly recommended.    &#61623; The analysis of Christian thought and development is also well handled and helpful.  I think that he overemphasises the continuity between Hellenistic philosophy and Christian theology, however, it is still an interesting interpretation.    &#61623; Tarnas also has an excellent analysis of post-modernism and its impacts (i.e. the loss of certainty).  I disagree with an earlier reviewer that Tarnas does not understand modern scientific developments.  On the contrary, he sees all too clearly the implications of recent theoretical developments (e.g. cosmology and quantum theory).  The modern era has furnished us with some good practical technological applications, however, it has done little to address fundamental existential questions.      &#61623; The book's only major drawback (and it is significant) is its epilogue where Tarnas delves into some radical pantheistic new-age musings.  It detracts significantly from the authors overall credibility and makes him appear rather eccentric - to say the least.  This closing speculative prattle may havetoo much of a New-age Milleniumist tone for many readers.     Overall I recommend the book.  Without the epilogue it warrants 5-stars as an introductory philosophy book.  As it stands I cannot give it better than an average rating.  Hopefully, subsequent editions will omit the epilogue	2005-07-12
US	37063148	R3T6Z3P5H6RU77	0520200292	675550109	Understanding Relativity: A Simplified Approach to Einstein's Theories	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Better Available for Free	Understanding Relativity by Leo Sartori seeks to provide an introduction to Einstein's theory of special relativity to a non-specialist audience. The author discusses pre-Einstein views of relativity, the development of special relativity and some of its associated implications. The issues of general relativity and cosmology are also briefly touched upon. I offer the following comments to potential buyers:<br /><br />1. Finding the right amount of math for a subject such as this is always a challenge. Not enough and the discussion can be too superficial; too much and you can lose the lay reader. Though sometimes useful, I generally found the author's repetitive use of simplified proofs distracting (they could have been reduced or added as a appendix).<br /><br />2. Discussion of time dilation and some of its associated ramifications such as the Twins Paradox was weak.<br /><br />3. Diagrams can be helpful in conveying special relativity. The author's diagrams were medicore.<br /><br />Overall, not a terrible book. It warrants only 2 stars because it is not good value for money. Better material regarding this and related topics can be found on the Internet for free (just google special relativity).	2005-07-02
US	37063148	R36HIN98XZKFNZ	0465015484	403360459	The End Of Physics: The Myth Of A Unified Theory	Books	4	10	10	N	N	One of the Best of its Type	David Lindley's The End of Physics is yet another excellent addition to the growing list of outstanding physics books.  Lindley is a long time editor of Science magazine and accomplished author.   <br /> <br />The book is a lucid and well-written text that provides an overview of recent developments in theoretical physics as well as an examination of what these developments mean.  I found the author's discussion of general relativity and inflation to be particularly well handled - better than is often the case in these types of works.  Lindley's exception strength, however, is his discussion of contemporary theoretical developments. <br /> <br />The quest for a comprehensive \\"Theory of Everything\\" has become the Holy Grail of modern physics.  The meaning of any such theory, however, has not been the subjected of much popular discussion.  Cutting-edge theoretical physics are complex and inundated with esoteric mathematical constructs.  These formulations appear to be driven in large part by mathematical expediency rather than empirical evidence; resulting in models seem excessively contrived and ad hoc in nature.  Variables appear to be arbitrarily adjusted to account for unwanted variance - leaving something that looks like a modern version of Ptolemy's universal model (a complex intellectual constructs that bare little resemblance to reality).   <br /> <br />The only shortcoming of the book is its lack of a more direct discussion of philosophical issues pertaining to science.  For instance, do mathematical and scientific theories represent reality in some \\"real\\" way or are they largely just useful metaphorical constructs.  It has been my experience that scientific realism and an associated narrow verificationist view of truth are often unchallenged assumptions of philosophical modernism.  Lindley talks around this question; however, a more direct discussion would be instructive.  Is science the sole means of acquiring and testing knowledge?  Upon examination it appears that we possess a range of logical and moral truths that are not obtained through scientific induction.  Regardless of one's view this is an important, and often overlooked, question to ponder. <br /> <br />Overall, The End of Physics is an excellent book.  It provides a good overview and discussion of modern developments in theoretical physics.  I would recommend it to a general audience; however, it may be a bit dense of a starting point for someone with no exposure to quantum theory or cosmology. <br /> <br />	2005-06-22
US	37063148	R1STHV8T4R0TH6	0486256642	507528488	One Two Three . . . Infinity: Facts and Speculations of Science (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	3	44	55	N	N	A Classic in Its Time	Originally published in 1947, this short book by George Gamow explores a range of issues in science and mathematics, e.g. relativity, quantum theory, cosmology etc.  As many readers are aware, Gamow was a well-known 20th century physicist who is perhaps best remembered for his contributions to Big Bang theory development.  Aside from his impressive scientific acumen Gamnow was also a colorful character - he and his wife attempted to defect from the Soviet Union by Kayaking across the Black Sea!    1, 2, 3 Infinity is aimed at introducing the joy and wonder of modern science to readers.  Written is a accessible and engaging style Gamow successfully conveys his love of science.  In its time, this was a classic introductory text for science readers; its success in reaching and influencing young minds is attested to by many of the reviews posted on this site.        For someone who read this book in his or her youth a re-read and the accompanying stroll down memory lane is well worthwhile.  That said, it would not be one of my top recommendations to new readers seeking an introduction to these issues.  We have been privileged in recent years to have a tremendous range of popular/introductory science books written by an impressive cadre of authors: Smolin, Greene, Lindley, Singh and Ferris to name just a few.  I have great respect for Gamow, however I feel that these skilled and capable writers have produced superior and more up-to-date works (indeed some of these are undoubtedly destined to become future classics themselves).    Overall, a wonderful nostalgic read - and still not a bad introductory text!  For someone seeking an entry point in to the fascinating world of science, however, there is a plethora of better and more up-to-date texts available.	2005-06-20
US	37063148	R26640KTPHAUZQ	0060930497	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search For Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Solid Defence of Darwinism	I have been intrigued by the on-going debate regarding evolution.  As a result, I have recently read a range of books exploring this interesting issue starting with Darwin's Origin of Species, and, including works by Pennock, Dawkins, Johnson, Behe, Gould, Dembski and others.  Finding Darwin's God is the best defence of contemporary evolutionary theory that I have come across. <br /> <br />In the early portion of the book Miller provides a clear and succinct argument for Darwinian evolution.  Given his knowledge of molecular biology I find that Miller is more adept at making the case for Darwinism than the other authors who I have read.  The author also addresses some of the different challenges to Darwinism, particularly those posed by Young Earth Creationists (YEC) and Intelligent Design (ID) advocates.  He is quite successful in refuting the YEC arguments, however, probably spends too much time in defeating a position that is not widely held.  His response to the advocates of ID, if not decisive, is well articulated.  In particular, his arguments against Behe are some of the more interesting aspects of the book. <br /> <br />The discussion with respect to why evolution is such an emotionally charged issue is particularly well handled.  I agree with Miller that some of the extreme philosophical extrapolations that writers such as Dawkins make based on evolutionary theory have enflamed this discussion. For those unfamiliar with this aspect of the discussion, many \\"popularizers\\" of evolution attempt to use the theory to argue for an atheistic worldview. At the end of the day, Darwinian evolution is an elegant but limited scientific theory (albeit an interesting one).   Regardless of the merit of current challenges, Darwinism does seem to be a theory in crisis as demonstrated by its increasingly frequent attempts to shout down criticism and overstate the strength of its arguments (indeed Miller himself has been criticised for his handling of data - see Icons of Evolution). <br /> <br />In the second part of the book Miller goes on to argue that evolution and belief in God are not incompatible.  In doing so, he touches on a range of scientific and theological issues.  This part of the book is not as well done.  I support Miller's general contentions but believe that he tries to accomplish too much and gets out of his intellectual depth.  Although it has its moments the second half of the book tends to be repetitive and disjointed.  I offer a few comments on some of his latter arguments before closing. <br /> <br />First, Miller reads too much into quantum theory.  Neither God's ability to act in the world nor free will is contingent on quantum indeterminacy.  Readers seeking an introduction to free will can refer to sections in intro level philosophy books such as Pojam's Introduction to Philosophy.  Additionally, similar to other scientific fields, much work is on going in quantum theory and many of the current limitations in this area may prove to be methodological. <br /> <br />Second, Miller's handling of cosmology and its theological ramifications are weak.  Readers seeking a better understanding of this issue can seek one of Bill Craig's many excellent works in this area.  <br /> <br />Third, it is not surprising that the author as a scientist approaches the issue from a classic modernist standpoint (i.e. science is the only source of truth).  This narrow verificationist view of knowledge is far from widely expected - we appear to know many moral and logical truths outside of those gained through scientific induction.   <br /> <br />Finally, the author gives to much credence to the threat evolution poses to religion - most people of faith do not see them as incompatable.  Even in religous apologetics the argument from design plays a limited role and, when it is used it normally revolves around the fundamental relationships in the universe not evolution.  <br /> <br />In conclusion, good book, well worth the money.  For those exploring the evolution argument I also recommend Behe's Darwin's Black Box and a work by Philip Johnson such as The Wedge of Truth (to get a fell for both sides). <br />	2005-06-17
US	37063148	RY08DD9IZD3Y4	0393316823	973190756	Climbing Mount Improbable	Books	2	21	34	N	N	Disappointed	I was disappointed with Climbing Mount Improbable. My assessment is not based on a particular worldview, but rather on the quality of the book. As evidenced by the many emotive reviews posted on this site, the theory of evolution is under attack on many fronts. I have followed this debate and read works from both sides of the issue.      In purchasing Climbing Mount Improbable, I was seeking a book that could address recent challenges and clearly articulate the case for the current theory of evolution (random mutation and natural selection). I have an interest in zoology and found some of the author's descriptions in this area interesting and well stated. From my perspective, however, he does not address the issue of evolution in a direct or convincing manner - I felt that Dawkins overused simplistic analogies and \\"just so stories\\" that though at times clever did not address the issue at hand.    From a stylistic perspective the author comes across as a bit too intolerant and self-aggrandizing for my tastes. At times Dawkins digressed into what verged on a polemic against those that questioned his views or assumptions. For instance, the author poked some fun at Fred Hoyle for raising questions regarding the improbability of Neo-Darwinian Theory. Granted, Mr. Hoyle is a physicist (Nobel Prize winner)and evolution is not his area of specialization. However, many of the recent challenges to evolution are also outside of Dawkins' area of expertise and makes him susceptible to his own type of ridicule. I generally find these types of personal attacks unwarranted and distasteful.     I apologize to author's fans, but I do not recommend this book. Kenneth Miller's Finding Darwin's God makes the case for evolution in a much clearer and convincing manner.  Darwin on Trial by Johnson is also interesting for an opposing perspective as are David Berlinski's comments on Dawkin's work (available on line).	2005-06-17
US	37063148	R3B2H2KCRO93C3	0631206043	907062036	Philosophy of Religion: The Big Questions	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Excellent Collection of Essays	Philosophy of Religion: the Big Questions edited by Stump and Murray provides a collection of essays discussing a range of important questions pertaining to the philosophy of religion.   The book examines issues such as the problem of evil, the hiddeness of God and the nature of God.    In general, I found the selection of essays to be well balanced and illuminating.  The selections are successful in providing a brief but well-rounded discussion of the key issues.  In particular the essays by Alvin Plantinga were outstanding.  This book makes an excellent introduction to this field of study. My only criticism is that a couple of the selections could have been stronger.  First, the essays by Swinburne are rather weak - there are better available.  Second, the piece refuting the cosmological argument by Rowe is interesting, but a bit dated and begs a response in light of the tremendous amount of discussion that has occurred in this area of late.  I think most folks who are familiar with this argument would agree that something from Bill Craig would be appropriate.  This might have been a space issue, however,I sense Craig may have been excluded because of his association with US evangelicals - not a politically correct group in contemporary academia.      Overall this is the best anthology within the field of philosophy of religion that I have come across.  I Highly recommend it to all readers interested in Philosophy of religion regardless of their subject matter knowledge.	2005-06-10
US	37063148	R1SWVBNM2G2NVY	0198782748	573609543	Contemporary Political Philosophy: An Introduction	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Ok	Will Kymlicka provides an overview of recent work in the field of political philosophy.  The book provides useful discussions of many leading contemporary theorists such as Rawls, Nozick and Dworkin. <br /> <br />Despite its strengths I would not recommend the book as a staring point for someone new to the field of political philosophy.  This area of study can be tedious at the best of times, and without sufficient theoretical grounding the reader may find much of Kymlicka's discussion arcane.  It is also too narrow in scope to serve as a good entry point - largely limited to Western liberal thought. <br /> <br />Overall, an ok read.  I would only recommend it, however, to someone with some background and keen interest in political philosophy.  Unless you get a good deal like I did (3$ new at a book sale), I would borrow rather than buy this book. <br />	2005-06-09
US	37063148	RU93KMANHSMHF	1888992069	400415352	Inside Mormonism	Books	3	22	26	N	N	Good Discussion	Inside Mormonism is written by Isaiah Bennett a former Catholic priest who converted to the Church of Latter Day Saints then reconverted to Catholicism.  Although it is within the realm of religious apologetic literature, I found the book's depth and tone superior to the norm for this genre.    Bennett provides a good discussion of a range of theological and historical issues pertaining to Mormonism.  Throughout the book Bennett remains respectful. He recognizes that many Latter Day Saints are devout and well-intentioned people and, like believers in many faiths, may not be particularly well versed in doctrinal issues.  Despite his delicate approach Bennett highlights many valid criticisms of the Church of Latter Day Saints.  The short history of the Church is rife with historic and theological inconsistencies (e.g. changing beliefs, absence of archaeological evidence, false claims, lack of logical and philosophical rigour, etc.)     In examining many of these difficulties Bennett attempts to steer Mormons toward mainstream Christianity.  It is doubtful, as other reviewers have noted, that he will have much success.  While it is evident to a degree in all faiths, groups such as Latter Day Saints and Jehovah Witnesses appear to be particularly resistant to an open examination and discussion of their faith.  This sensitivity is evident in some \\"reviews\\" posted on this site.    Overall, a good solid work that avoids much of the superficiality and emotionalism characteristic of apologetic literature.  I recommend it for anyone seeking a better understanding of the Church of Latter Day Saints.	2005-06-07
US	37063148	R1XL7TW5WF5UW4	0915144093	459468080	The Essential Plotinus (Hackett Classics)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Good Sample of Plotinus	The Essential Plotinus: Representative Treatises from the Enneads by Elmer O'Brien provides a short selection of Plotinus' more important writings.  Though not widely read today Plotinus had a tremendous influence on ancient and medieval thought. Rather esoteric and oblique from a twentieth-first standpoint, his work remains relevant for students of philosophy and theology.  In particular, Plotinus' view of the One's (God) transcendence and his thoughts regarding the limitations of intellectual analysis and reason are helpful.      I would recommend the book as an entry point for someone seeking an introduction to Plotinus.  This is not, however, a good starting point for someone who is new to the field of philosophy.  From my perspective, as others have noted, O'Brien's translation is quite readable (about as readable as Plotinus gets anyways).  A potential drawback is the limited analysis and context provided by the author.	2005-05-08
US	37063148	R2ZAELPH9PVPAV	0007162200	581604753	Big Bang: The Origin of the Universe	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Introduction to Big Bang Theory Development	In recent years there has been a proliferation of cosmology books aimed at the broad reading public.  Simon Singh's \\"Big Bang\\" is one of latest in this growing collection.  In his latest work Singh discusses the development of the Big Bang theory in the latter part of the twentieth century.  <br /> <br />Overall, I found Big Bang an enjoyable book.  It is easy to read and clearly geared toward the non-scientist.  Singh writes in a concise and non-technical manner yet is still able to effectively communicate key theoretical concepts.  I offer a few thoughts on the book for prospective buyers: <br /> <br />The weakest part of the book is the opening chapter wherein the author attempts to summarize the full gambit of pre-twentieth century cosmological concepts.  I appreciate Singh's attempt to provide this background information, however, the brevity of his summary resulted in a somewhat superficial and stereotypical discussion (e.g. relationship between the. church and science).  Many of the issues touched on in this overview are interesting and important topics that warrant a more detailed and even-handed analysis. <br /> <br />Singh's discussion of modern cosmology and many of its leading personalities was particularly well down.  From my perspective the book moved at a crisp pace and the author achieved the right balance of information and entertainment for an introductory-level book such as this.  Singh is especially adept at conveying the excitement of cutting edge science - I would recommend it to high school students who are interested in science - its can be motivational as well as informative.   <br /> <br />Singh also does a nice job of using the Big Bang theory to demonstrate the resistance that sometimes exists within the scientific community.  Contrary to what outsiders may think, science and the scientific community are influenced by individual beliefs and ambitions.  Singh notes that the scientific communities, like many other groups, can be rather hostile to those who challenge excepted dogma and slow to accept change.  A good example of this type of dogmatism can be seen in the Darwinist response to recent questions regarding evolutionary theory. <br /> <br /> Overall, good book, I recommend it to anyone seeking a popular level introduction to Big Bang cosmology.  For readers seeking more detail regarding on-going developments in this fascinating area I suggest Ferris's \\"The Whole Shebang\\" and Seife's \\"Alpha and Omega\\".	2005-05-04
US	37063148	R7HCSO5229AON	0310234697	410592075	The Case for Faith: A Journalist Investigates the Toughest Objections to Christianity	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Popular Introduction to Apologetics	Lee Strobel's \\"The Case for Faith\\" is a brief introductory Christian apologetic text. In the book Strobel interacts with a number of leading Christian apologists on a range of issues (historic Jesus, existence of evil etc.).  The book is aimed at addressing some of most commonly raised challenges to Christian faith.    Although a bit superficial, Strobel is effective is offering clear and concise retorts to most common barriers to Christian faith.  For someone seeking a rigorous examination of the arguments for and against the existence of God - this is probably not the right book.  Strobel does not significantly challenge any of his experts nor do they have the space to explore issues in detail (Strobel does offer some good suggestions for further reading).  One shouldn't be too critical of the book, however, when compared to some of the flimsy nonsense put forward by \\"free thinkers\\" on the other side, such as George Smith, it seems comparatively rigorous and even handed.    In my opinion this and the \\"Case for Christ\\" are worth a read.  I feel, however, that the author has over used this format and it has started to distract from his message (it is a tough balance - but it seems too commercial).  I recommend the \\"Case for Faith\\" to Christians, agnostics and sceptics - it's one sided, but it is a as good a starting point as any to enter this important and interesting discussion.  For readers seeking to go a little further in this area I suggest a debate format that allows both sides to put forth their ideas - \\"God?\\" by Craig and Armstrong is one good example.	2005-05-04
US	37063148	RT086YI9569YT	0895262002	107650463	Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth? Why Much of What We Teach About Evolution Is Wrong	Books	4	16	31	N	N	Surprisingly Good	Although I have followed recent discussions pertaining to evolutionary theory, I was hesitant to read Icons of Evolution.  I had assumed that it would be too biased to be of any real interest.  Upon reading the book, however, I was pleasantly surprised to find it quite objective and well researched.    In his book Wells examines a number of well-known \\"examples\\" of evolution (Peppered Moths, Darwin's finches, etc.) and assesses their fit with contemporary evolutionary theory.  In doing so, he argues quite convincingly that the support these icons lend to Darwinism is overstated.  If even partially correct, Well's assertions raise interesting questions and challenges for evolutionary theory.  As a result, unfortunately, the book will probably be bitterly attacked by ardent Darwinists regardless of its merit.    I recommend this book for anyone interested in Darwinism.  It is by no means the definitive word on evolution, however, it does discuss a range of important issues and raise interesting questions.  For someone new to the issue I would also review evolutionary theory (easily done on line) and read something such as By Design or By Chance by Denise O'leary, which reviews the Intelligent Design - Darwinist debate that provides the background for this book.	2005-04-24
US	37063148	RLHXOLX386L83	0898705533	413411308	What Catholics Really Believe: Answers to Common Misconceptions About the Faith	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Ok but too shallow	In What Catholics Really Believe well known American-Catholic apologist Karl Keating discusses a numbers of popular questions/misconceptions about Catholicism.  The book appears to be largely aimed at so-called cultural Catholics who lack a robust understanding of their faith.    <br /> <br />Overall the book is an easy read and can be comfortably completed in one or two sittings.  In my opinion Keating effectively stays within the doctrine of the Catholic Church and I have no significant qualms with his positions.  Indeed, his strong support of some unpopular church doctrines is particularly commendable. My major criticism of What Catholics Really Believe is its lack of depth.  As one earlier reviewer accurately noted Keating uses a sound bite like format which provides some answers but limited explanation.  As a result, I do not think that it will meet the needs of those seeking a greater understanding of their faith (perhaps, however, Keating's skimpy approach is all that modern readers will bare).  The book also seems to be a little too hostile to U.S. evangelicals. <br /> <br />Although not a terrible book I can only give What Catholics Really Believe a likewarm recomendation.  It may not be a bad starting point for someone seeking a better understanding of Catholicism - it does provides some answers.  For those seeking greater insight, however, I would recommend something by Frank Sheed as a starting point then eventually the Catechism of the Catholic Church (could be a bit tough to start with).	2005-04-08
US	37063148	R1DF9ZCB514CC5	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	2	14	31	N	N	Much better is available	I recently re-read Atheism: The Case Against God by George Smith after glancing at some of the reviews posted on Amazon.  In the book Smith advocates the atheistic position and attempts to eliminate theism (particularly Christianity) as a rational intellectual option.     I should say at the outset that from my perspective the theism/atheism debate is an important and fascinating topic that warrants examination.  Additionally, I think that informed and thoughtful people can hold positions on either side of this issue.  This book, however, does not address the topic in an open and honest manner but rather in a skewed and vitriolic fashion (It has been experience that many self-described free thinkers such as Mr. Smith are, in fact, extremely dogmatic).      Aside from the poor scholarship, I was disappointed in Smith's angry tone. His bias and errors are manifest throughout the text - a comprehensive diagnostic of them is well beyond the scope of this review. For example, when addressing the so-called cosmological argument for God's existence Smith formulates the argument incorrectly (stating that everything that exists requires a cause rather than everything than began to exist - a subtle yet significant difference). While with respect to physics he offers a clearly incorrect understanding of entrophy/thermodynamics. One reader has highlighted a link that discusses many of Smith's errors in greater detail ([...]  The site appears to be from a Christian perspective, however, many of its comments are valid independant of one's belief system.     There are many good works in this area, which better articulate both the atheistic and theistic arguments.  For a starting point I would suggest a debate/discussion format which allows each side to put forward their own arguments.  In this genre I suggest God: A Debate Between a Christian and an Atheist by Craig and Sinnott-Armstrong as starting point (Armstrong makes the strongest argument for atheism I have heard - be forewarned, however, that Craig also makes a compelling case for theism. For a representation of only the atheistic position Mackie's \\"The Miricle of Theism\\" is amoung the best.     Avoid this one - its silly and angry.	2005-04-06
US	37063148	R23FHU154MH1P9	0801021758	456765428	Will the Real Jesus Please Stand Up?: A Debate between William Lane Craig and John Dominic Crossan	Books	3	23	29	N	N	Should Have Been a Classic	\\"Will the Real Jesus Please Stand Up\\" features a debate between liberal and conservative Christians regarding the nature of Jesus.   The participants are Dominic Crossan a prolific liberal New Testament scholar and the leading contemporary apologist for mainstream Christianity William Craig.  William Buckley moderated the debate.  The debate transcript is followed by comments from both liberal and conservative scholars regarding the debate and issues raised within it.    High profile debates such as these between liberal and conservative Christians are few and far between.  Given that Craig and Crossan are the best known and arguably most capable representatives of the respective camps this should have been a classic.  Although Craig was engaging, Crossan for the most part appeared evasive and refused to participate in any substantive discussion.  Crossan is well known for making many controversial statements regarding the historic Jesus, however, when Craig raised some of these claims, Crossan largely failed to acknowledge  or support them.      I found Crossan's performance disappointing.  Although I do not often agree with him, I do think some of Crossan's ideas are interesting and would have enjoyed a discussion of them.  Crossan's weak showing made many of his more grandiose claims - and by association those of the Jesus Seminar - appear somewhat vacuous.  Though from my perspective, the objective of these types of discussions is not necessarily to win, I think all but the most ardent Crossan supporters will concede that he was intellectually and rhetorically overwhelmed by Craig.    Despite the debate's flaws the book is still a worthwhile read for those interested in Christian apologetics or the historic Jesus.  Readers seeking some background for the debate can refer to \\"The Five Gospels\\" by the Jesus Seminar and \\"Jesus under Fire\\" a response by mainstream/conservative Christians.  Readers seeking an overview of contemporary scholarship regarding the historic Jesus should see \\"Jesus, The Victory of God\\" by N.T. Wright and \\"The Jesus Quest\\" by Ben Witherington.	2004-10-18
US	37063148	R3HQQXPGAJ0NUG	0060670630	336019156	A New Christianity for a New World: Why Traditional Faith is Dying & How a New Faith is Being Born	Books	2	38	59	N	N	Not Very Good	In A New Christianity for a New World former Episcopalian minister John Shelby Spong calls for the radical reform of Christianity.  Spong a well-known liberal theological commentator argues that Christianity requires significant change to bring in-line with contemporary Western thought and make it more palatable to potential believers. <br /> <br />Spong suggests that given the current Western worldview, key Christian tenants such as the divinity of Christ, original sin, salvation and the theist view of God are no longer supportable nor desirable.  Indeed, he believes that for Christianity to survive it will need to remove many of its supernatural aspects and adopt a non-theistic position.  In articulating this call for change Spong is aware that these types of reforms, if adopted, could well result in a \\"Christianity\\" that is no longer Christian in any recognizable sense.  I offer the following thoughts for potential readers: <br /> <br />Throughout the book, one gets the sense that Spong is a sincere man who has struggled, and continues to struggle, with his faith.  It is also clear that he is no longer a Christian in a traditional understanding of the term.  The crux of Spong's struggle seems to be between his loss of faith on the one hand, and his unwillingness to give up his life long relationship with the church on the other hand. The first part of the book that addresses this personal dilemma is an insightful read.   <br /> <br />The book, however, has many weaknesses.  For instance, I was surprised by the author pre-conceptions with respect to how others view their faith.  He implies that the majority of Christians hold a heavily anthropomorphic view of God and a rigid literal interpretation of scripture.  In my view, though they may apply to certain niches within fundamental American Protestantism, these characteristics do not apply to broader church.  Contrary to his comments traditional Christian theology has envisioned a God that is beyond man ability tofully comprehend and has recognized that scripture includes poetic, metaphorical as well as literal language.   I do not doubt that Spong has encountered individuals with narrow religious views, however, his handling of this issue caricaturizes many Christians who hold significantly broader interpretations (e.g. Catholics - the vast majority of Christians).  Spong has been in the public forum for many years and has received both adulation and criticism for his ideas.  Therefore, though regrettable, it is understandable that he has become quite dogmatic in his views and intolerant of those who do not share them. <br /> <br />Some of his argumentation is odd.  In making the case for reform Spong argues that modern folk do not see theism as a live intellectual option.  Although this assumption can be challenged, it is none-the-less a point worth discussing.  Spong's approach, however, struck me as superfluous.  He contends that the prevalence of caffeine and nicotine is increasing within society, and that this increase is an indicator of decreased theism (people have substituted them for God).  To make this argument he would have to demonstrate that consumption has indeed increased and that there is some correlation between the consumption of these substances and religious views - he does not.  In my view the argument would be much stronger using traditional data such as church attendance and membership (in the latter twentieth century these numbers have declined significantly in all Western countries except the US).  As it is, I found the argument silly and it detracted from his overall thesis. <br /> <br />Spong's use of the term postmodernism is misleading.  The author makes it sound as if the arguments that he raises stem from a developing post-modern worldview.  In fact many readers will recognize them as variants of traditional questions raised by modernists, i.e. an unflinching faith in science and human reason.  In the West, he European Enlightenment of the Seventeenth century saw reason displace faith as the preferred source of knowledge.  The resultant modern view expounded great faith in scientific progress and the limitless nature of human knowledge and reason. This in turn led to an increasingly deistic view of god (a watchmaker who did not intervene once the universe had been put into motion). Subsequent ideas expounded by thinkers such as Darwin, Marx and Freud attempted to reduce even the need for this limited deity.   Postmodernism on the other hand, arose in the 20th century influenced by developments such as those in theoretical physics which cast doubt on the limits of human reason.  Readers seeking a greater understanding of PM particularly as it pertains to Christianity should see Stanley Grenz' excellent book A Primer on Postmodernism.   <br /> <br />Spong's comments of the historicity of Christian scripture and traditions are also heavily skewed.  He implies that the majority of scholars share his skeptical views on the development of the Christian cannon and faith tradition.  This is not the case.  The search for an historic Jesus has gone through several iterations in recent centuries.  Though many of these revisionist quests have been interesting and worthwhile intellectual exercises it has been recognized that they normally result in finding a Jesus in the author?s image (e.g. a political activist, a feminist, etc.).  Readers looking for a current example of the \\"historic Jesus debate\\"? can refer to the Jesus Seminar's The Five Gospels and a rebuttal from a conservative/traditional in Jesus Under Fire.  Ultimately with regard to the historicity of Christianity there is no compelling reason to think that a selective pruning of the gospels and early church writings 2000 years after the fact provides a more accurate view of Jesus than those presented by his contemporaries. <br /> <br />Finally, I found the aspect of the book outlining the author's view of the way ahead to be its weakest part.  It is clear what the author is rejecting; however, in my view Spong is unsuccessful in articulating the type of post-theistic God or belief system he is advocating.  He appears to be calling for a type of deistic or pantheistic view - it is not clear.   <br /> <br />Overall, I would not recommend the book.  I found the aspects dealing with the author's personal faith struggles to be insightful.  With respect to broader philosophical and theological issues, hwever, he touches on important and topical subjects but does so a clumsy and biased manner.	2004-10-17
US	37063148	R39UHQ1JSBY66V	0802808646	648807393	A Primer on Postmodernism	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellent Introduction	Stanley Grenz's A primer on Postmodernism provides an overview of the socio-cultural phenomenon known as postmodernism.  Although as a professor of theology and ethics Grenz has a particular interest in the religious implications of the postmodern movement, his work is an excellent well-rounded introduction to this important cultural and intellectual movement <br /> <br />As with other broad terms, the expression \\"postmodernism\\" is somewhat ill-defined and can be variously interpreted.  Postmodernism, as the term implies, is fundamentally a move, or an attempt to move, beyond the views of modernism.  The roots of what we refer to as modernism can be traced to the European Enlightenment of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.  The Enlightenment is often viewed as a turning point in Western civilization where revelation was supplanted by reason as the means to knowledge and truth.  The pre-modern approach to knowledge is represented by the sentiment that belief is required for understanding.  Modernism's focus on verifiable truth transposes this argument and makes belief contingent upon understanding.  Modernism holds several key assumptions.  It postulates that epistemological and ethical truths exist, and that these truths are available to man.  Postmodernism has challenged this modern faith in reason and raised questions about man's ability to understand the universe. <br /> <br />Grenz provides an excellent and succinct overview of modernism and postmodernism that, in my opinion, is useful to both new and advanced students of this subject.  I found his discussion of the scientific and philosophical roots of postmodernism particularly clear and insightful.  <br /> <br />A primer on Postmodernism is the best book I have read in this area.  I highly recommend it to readers interested in this topic	2004-09-30
US	37063148	R1WZ7MFXL13FBZ	0553380168	135474617	A Brief History of Time	Books	3	8	15	N	N	OK	Stephen Hawking's A Brief History of the Universe has enjoyed, and continues to enjoy, tremendous popularity (particularly for a science book - albeit a non technical one).  As someone with a keen interest in cosmology and its philosophical implications, I am predisposed to view anything that brings these issues to a broader audience in a favourable light ? indeed this was not a terrible book.  I do not believe, however, that it warrants the rave reviews that it has received from many Amazon customers.  I sense that this may be a new area for many of these readers and a bit of bandwagon jumping may have occurred.  Although Hawking is an accomplished scientist, in my view, his abilities as a communicator are modest and his grasp of philosophical concepts is limited.<br /><br />In his book Hawking touches briefly on a range of issues.  Following is my opinion regarding the handling of these issues.  The overview of the history of cosmology and relativity theory is well done.  His discussion of Quantum theory could be stronger (a variety of material that presents quantum theory and its implications/questions is available for free on the Internet  - Alan Wolf also has some excellent material in this area for a popular audience).  Black holes are one of Hawking's key interests and there is a lot of interesting theoretical work being done in this area.  That said, however, I feel that the discussion of this topic is a bit too long.  Finally, though interesting, I found the discussion of speculative concepts such as multiverses and imaginary time ill-suited for this type of book.  To be honest, this type of metaphysical conjecture is better suited for a work of science fiction than a popular overview of cosmology.  Although the author caveats many of his thoughts in this area, the lay reader could easily come away with the view that these ideas have a much firmer basis than is actually the case.<br /><br /> I found Hawking's lack of depth with respect to the philosophical implications of cosmology disappointing.  Readers seeking more on issues such as the limits of science, the relationship between science and reality, the nature of God, etc. would be better served to look within in the realms of scientific and religious philosophy (many of the questions that men such as Hawking are just being to grapple with have been addressed in great depth and clarity for millennia).  Asking a scientist who works in a narrow area of research to clearly understand and articulate the broader ramifications of their work is a bit like asking a software developer to explain the effect of the Internet on society.  The point here is not to unduly criticize scientists or software developers, but, to highlight that there are individuals more at ease with analysing the wider implications of technical and theoretical developments.  For example, an interesting read with regard to the philosophical implications of current cosmological thought is Smith and Craig's Atheism, Theism and Big Bang Cosmology.<br /><br />In conclusion, anything that increases interest in the \\"big\\" questions is worth a look.  Accordingly, I think Hawking should be congratulated for introducing these ideas to a broader audience.  There are, however, many better discussions of these issues available in both print and on the Internet.ical implications of cosmology disappointing.  Readers seeking more on issues such as the limits of science, the relationship between science and reality, the nature of God, etc. would be better served to look within in the realms of scientific and religious philosophy (many of the questions that men such as Hawking are just being to grapple with have been addressed in great depth and clarity for millennia).  Asking a scientist who works in a narrow area of research to clearly understand and articulate the broader ramifications of their work is a bit like asking a software developer to explain the effect of the Internet on society.  The point here is not to unduly criticize scientists or software developers, but, to highlight that there are individuals more at ease with analysing the wider implications of technical and theoretical developments.  For example, an interesting read with regard to the philosophical implications of current cosmological thought is Smith and Craig's Atheism, Theism and Big Bang Cosmology. <br /> <br /> <br />In conclusion, anything that increases interest in the \\"big\\" questions is worth a look.  Accordingly, I think Hawking should be congratulated for introducing these ideas to a broader audience.  There are, however, many better discussions of these issues available in both print and on the Internet.	2004-09-28
US	37063148	R28OSCKFSMK0ZD	0553374117	394271416	Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Only for Dedicated Hawking Fans	Stephen Hawking's Black Holes and Baby Universes and other Essays is a compilation of approximately a dozen essays and presentations made by Hawking from 1976 to 1992.  Though some of the essays deal with scientific issues (e.g. physics, cosmology, black holes) most of the book is autobiographical in nature discussing the author?s upbringing and struggle with ALCS. <br /> <br />Written in the aftermath of the popular A Brief history of the Universe, the current work is a rather blatant effort to exploit Hawking's popularity with minimum effort.  Although a short book (approx. 175 hardcover) there is much repetition amongst the essays.  Readers with even a passing knowledge of Hawking will find no new information in this book. <br /> <br />Overall, a disappointing book that has little to offer.  Only for the most dedicated Hawking aficionado.	2004-09-28
US	37063148	R1N6PZ82EH2HRY	019826383X	254112768	Theism, Atheism, and Big Bang Cosmology (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Discussion	Recent developments in the field of cosmology have caused it to become increasingly topical in the theism - atheism debate.  Theoretical and empirical work during the last century has shattered the common modern belief that the universe was temporally infinite.  Indeed, these developments have made a compelling argument for the universe having an actual being.  Obviously, if one accepts the finitude of the past this view has profound philosophical and theological implications.  Why is there a universe?  Is God the only viable hypothesis?  In Theism, Atheism and Big Bang Cosmology, philosophers Quentin Smith and William Craig discuss these and other fascinating questions.<br /><br />The book has three parts.  It is laid out in a debate style format wherein one author puts forth their case that is subsequently followed by a series of rebuttals and responses.  In Part 1 Craig makes the theistic case.  In Part 2 Smith makes the atheist case.  In Part 3 the authors discuss some of the cosmological musings made by Stephen Hawking in his popular works such as A Brief History of Time.<br /><br />The first two parts of the book provide a comprehensive analysis of the implications of modern cosmology.  Though well done, this discussion may be best suited for readers who possess some familiarity with modern physics and philosophical thought.  An abbreviated and simplified overview of this topic can be found on Craig's website as part of a public debate between himself and Smith.  For readers who have been exposed to Hawking's philosophical musings Part 3 should also be enjoyable.  Smith in particular is helpful in reformulating and correcting some of Hawking's often muddled thoughts in this area.<br /><br />Although some of the argumentation can seem rather esoteric the book is worthwhile for anyone seeking a better understanding of modern cosmology	2004-09-28
