US	37169513	RDNYDRR1QHSX1	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Simply Wonderful!!	Ransom by Julie Garwood is only my second book by this author (the first being Heartbreaker which is more contemporary but nonetheless very good).  Overall this book is simply wonderful, heartwarming, romantic, exciting... I could go on forever.  I would recommend this book to any mystery, romance, historical fiction lovers out there.  Judging from my first two Julie Garwood novels, she is a very talented author and I look forward to enjoying much more of her work.  I have already placed three of her novels on order at my local library.<br />Ransom  is the story of Lady Gillian, whose father is killed and family destroyed when she is only five and Baron Alford invades her home.  She is separated from her sister Christen, who flees into Scotland for protection.  Gillian remains in England with her Uncle Morgan.  When she grows up, her uncle is held for ransom until Gillian can find Arriana's box, King John's missing treasure that holds the clue to who killed his one true love.  Gillian has reason to believe that her sister has the box, so she escapes the baron with a kidnapped Scottish boy, Alec.  They head to Scotland to find Christen, and fall together with the laird and a few soldiers of the Buchanan clan.  Gillian falls in love with the laird, Brodick.<br />Also included included in the storyline is the romance of Ramsey Sinclair and Bridgid, although it plays a disappointingly secondary role to the main romance between Brodick and Gillian.  Between searching for her sister, finding a traitor in the midst of the Sinclair clan whom only Gillian can recognize, and falling in love, the plot is amazing in its complexity.  The setting feels utterly real and the dialogue is witty and entertaining.  (I especially love the conversations between Alec and Gillian because it makes Alec innocently lovable while being realistic - hey, all five year olds talk practically nonstop about the most mundane things and then say all the things they shouldn't!<br />After all my praise,I must add one tiny complaint.  The first few chapters are very hard to get through.  I was completely confused as to what was going on with Gillian and Alec (why was he hanging off a cliff, why was Gillian chasing him, how did Gillian come to know about Alec being held prisoner, etc.).  Maybe I missed a few hidden clues about what was happening, but it took me a few chapters for everything to make sense and at the time I was getting very frustrated.  Perhaps Julie Garwood was attempting to try something different by plunging right into the action, but I feel she could have started at the beginning and the effect could have been the same if not better.  This might also have prevented a few readers from giving up in the beginning.  However, once everything clicks into place, this book is awesome.  I loved it and stayed up till 2 in the morning reading.  <br />*****Also, I shall be going back to read The Secret, which I have discovered is the prequel to this, centering on Iann and Judith, who are the parents of Alec and minor characters in Ransom.  I look forward to it!	2004-07-14
US	37169513	R33RZKRHT1LSJP	0312979479	307844923	And Then There Were None	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My first Christie mystery and I got hooked!	I first read And then there were none in fifth grade (my older brother was reading it for class and I picked it up) and it scared me to death.  It was my first Christie novel and although the plot totally freaked me out, I got hooked.  Despite everything I loved it and years later when I finally got over my initial fear in middle school I reread it.  And I got started on all her other books.<br />Now in high school, I look back on a year where I have made quite a dent into Agatha Christie's mysteries.  I have been literally gobbling them up and enjoying each and every one.  Some I like better than others, and this one will always be at the top of that list.  It was my first and it is my favorite.<br />And then there were none has had an abundance of titles.  From 10 Little Indians and something even less appropriate, the title has gradually changed until it settled on this.  The story is of ten people, gathered on an island by someone they don't know.  One by one they are done away with according to the nursery rhyme Ten Little Indians.  (That was the part that really creeped me out but Christie uses the nursery rhyme plot device in quite a few of her mysteries.)  The first dies at dinner the first day and everyone else slowly follows suit (according to the rhyme of course).  The murders are sometimes quite gruesome.  A search of the island reveals that the killer is one of the ten, and tensions mount as ten becomes nine, then eight, then seven...and then there were none.<br />My favorite character from the beginning was Vera, so I was able to stick with the book until the end.  It seems slow at some parts, especially in the beginning, but soon it has you hooked as the murders come faster and closer together.  Overall, it is a total masterpiece, and I still don't understand how Christie managed it.  The solution was just amazing - a total surprise.  I never guessed and I doubt anyone else would either without help.<br />One more thing: the book has been blamed for bigotry, etc.  If you're really really touchy about it you might want to avoid it, but otherwise put up with it.  It was the time period, remember.  I didn't catch much of it when I first read it, but I was young, and I'll accept that there's probably some there.  So be forewarned, but if you decide to buy or read it, enjoy!igotry, etc.  If you're really really touchy about it you might want to avoid it, but otherwise put up with it.  It was the time period, remember.  I didn't catch much of it when I first read it, but I was young, and I'll accept that there's probably some there.  So be forewarned, but if you decide to buy or read it, enjoy!	2004-06-28
US	37169513	R14TS7XQK20Y0Q	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	I loved it!  Each time I read it, it got better!	I first read this book and the rest of the trilogy about three years ago when I was thirteen.  I was having trouble finding good books to read, and I started it without high hopes.  It took only a few chapters for me to completely fall in love with all the characters, and I read the entire thing straight through, rushing through all my meals so that I could get back to the story.  Within a week I had finished the trilogy.<br />This book is wonderful; the entire trilogy is wonderful; in fact, all of Hobb's books are.  The way the trilogy ended put me off a bit, and I was so upset that I didn't think about it again for another two years.  Then there came a time when I was stuck in another hole without anything good to read, so I fell back on my old favorites:  Sharon Shinn, Dave Duncan, Juliet Marillier... and I picked this up again.  I reread it and immediately forgave everything.  The second time I read it through I finally came to appreciate all the effort and skill that Hobb used to tell her story.  I began to see all the hints at what was going on in the plot, I came to understand the idea of Forging and the tricky mazes of politics that Hobb wove together, and I caught some of Fitz's traits that I had missed before.<br />The book is about Fitz, (...)the king-in-waiting.  The discovery of his existence when he is about six causes Chivalry to abdicate and Fitz moves to Buckkeep Castle.  He is mostly ignored for the first few years, so he tags after Burrich, the stablemaster who becomes his friend and father-figure, and he runs rampant around Buckkeep town like an ordinary child.  This all changes when he finally comes to King Shrewd's attention.  Then he starts to get his schooling during the day while he trains as an assassin at night with Chade, the current assassin.  While Fitz learns his new trade, war is brewing.  Raiders attack the coasts and Forge townspeople.  Forging is a confusing concept that seems to mean taking a person's soul and making them into nothing more than an animal, and not even that.  Fitz is also being trained in the Skill, a talent that almost all those with royal blood possess.  He also discovers he has the Wit, being able to \\"talk\\" with animals and bond with them.  The Wit is despised and feared by most people, and Fitz mostly hides it (except from Burrich).<br />There's so much more woven into the story, however.  Fitz faces problems and obstacles from almost every angle.  He has friends to help him pull through, but he also has enemies who constantly attempt to harm him.  Fitz's story is so realistic, so not contrived, that it is easy to fall right into the story.  Fitz becomes a real person, not just a character.  He faces a horrible series of bad luck, and it just seems that no matter what he does, nothing will turn out right.  I was getting really frustrated repeatedly throughout the book and trilogy.  Just when things were going good, everything would fall apart.<br />But don't let that turn you off.  On the contrary, I feel that that very aspect of it is what makes everything so real.  And the reality of the story is what makes everything so wonderful.  I laughed, I cried, and my heart beat faster with fear and anticipation whenever Fitz faced danger.  I loved all the characters: Fitz, Burrich, Molly, the Fool, Verity, Kettricken, and I hated the antagonists with a passion.  The setting became more real for me than my backyard, I was so absorbed in the book.<br />This book may start slow, but stay patient and keep reading.  Soon you won't even notice the hour hand moving across the clockface, won't even contemplate what your plans for tomorrow are.  This book slowly grows on you, creeping up stealthily and taking hold without you noticing.  And then suddenly you turn the last page and realize that hours have passed but all you can think of is Fitz and what's happening next.<br />One last thing:  if you decide to read it, set aside a lot of time so that you don't have to put it down.  Be sure the other books are within reach so that you don't have to spend days wondering what will happen in Book Two or Three.  And finally, go on to finish the trilogy even if you don't like the ending.  Also be sure to read the Liveship Traders trilogy and the Tawny Man trilogy.  (You have to read Liveship before Tawny Man, and Tawny Man continues Fitz's story with a satisfactory ending).  Persevere through it the first time and reread again.  I've read it three times, and each time I was able to glean something else that I missed.  Five stars for this, it's made its way onto my top ten list of scifi/fantasy!	2004-06-24
US	37169513	R1TUYI0DHKJZUE	1556614225	110679805	The Stars for a Light (Cheney Duvall, M. D., Book 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Nice, Entertaining Book and Series	The Stars for a Light by Lynn and Gilbert Morris is the first book of the Cheney Duval, M.D. series which consists of 8 books and a subsequent series called the Inheritance.  So far, that contains only 1 book.<br />Overall, this is a nice, entertaining book.  The series is fun, too, although sometimes the adventures seem rather unrealistic.  However, there are adventures, and they are exciting.  This book/series has that, plus mystery and romance.  I'm not a big fan of christian literature, but I did like these books.  I reccomend it for people who like christian fiction or historical fiction.<br />The Stars for a Light tells the story of Cheney Duvall, a lady physician who struggles to become accepted in an all-male medical world.  Other physcians look down on her, and patients don't trust a woman to doctor them.  As a last resort, Cheney gets a job escorting/doctoring a group of women traveling by ship to California in order to add more women to the western population.  Cheney brings along a nurse, who was reccomended by a friend.  Mr. Shiloh Irons.  He's an orphan, with his name coming from the crate marked Shiloh Ironworks in which he was found.<br />This unlikely pair (a female doctor and male nurse) travel to California with plenty of adventures to keep them busy, including Shiloh's hobby/second job of fighting, fires on board the ship, disease, and other excitements.<br />It is a good book.  The characters are likeable and realistic, with their own particular traits.  The dialogue is fun and the characters seem to work well with one another.  It's well written and original, showing character development aplenty during the series.  If you start on this, read it all.  By the fourth book, you'll be hooked.  I was.	2003-08-13
US	37169513	R1SIHLRHMATHUR	0888993234	639373264	The King's Daughter	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I Loved It!!!!!	This is one of my favorite books.  I was completely obsessed with it for about a month, which is a record for me.  It's terrific.<br />Best for young adults ages 12-16, The King's Daughter by Suzanne Martel tells the story of Jeanne, an eighteen-year-old French orphan.  She travels to Canada as a King's Daughter, passage paid by the king so that she might marry one of the settlers.  By chance she is married to Simon, a young man with two children.  His previous wife Aimee was killed by the Iroquios and he needed someone to look after his son and daughter.<br />It takes time and patience, but Jeanne comes to love Simon and Simon comes to love Jeanne.  They both struggle with doubts about each other throughout the book until everything is resolved at the end.  There are plenty of various adventures (Jeanne travelling to the nearest settlement as a man, for example, or the risk of Iroquois attacks) which make the book very exciting.  The story is touching and fun, and historical fiction buffs will love it, as will anyone.<br />The King's Daughter was translated from French to English, I believe.  Since I cannot speak or read French, I was delighted to find an English version at my bookstore.  I liked this book very, VERY MUCH and I would encourage ANYONE to buy it.	2003-07-24
US	37169513	R1U0C6NS2T6OBK	044100928X	433447844	Summers at Castle Auburn	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Terrific Book	Sharon Shinn is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors.  Somehow she manages to combine every aspect of writing into one book; a wonderful plot, deep characters, and a fully depicted setting.  Although Summers at Castle Auburn can't match up with Archangel, it is still worth a read.<br />Some people say that this book could have been better, although I can't possilby imagine how.  If you want to read something literate and historical, like Jane Eyre or The Three Musketeers, this is not for you.  This is science fiction.  And, by the way, it is very good science fiction.<br />Coriel spends the summers with her half sister at Castle Auburn.  She is enamored of the young Prince Bryan, and she is good friends with many others, including Kent (Bryan's cousin), and many soldiers or guards.  She struggles to keep up with the intrigue at the castle and enjoy her summers without being caught in Lord Matthew's plans to marry her off for the kingdom's advantage.  She manages this very well.<br />All I can say is that I love this book.  Its entertaining.  It may not be a classic or the best book ever written, but it is good.  And it is a fun read.  I bought it, and I paid [$$$] for it.  I was not disappointed.  It was worth it, but that depends totally on what type of book you enjoy.  But if you like science fiction or fantasy, Summers at Castle Auburn is a must read.<br />For other books by Sharon Shinn, I suggest Archangel and all of its sequels.  They are all very good.	2003-05-06
US	37169513	R2FQJ8L2SFXW5	0441004326	776626933	Archangel (Samaria, Book 1)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	It's Worth More Than 5 Stars	I began reading this without very high expectations, and it quickly surprised me.  I still can't understand how Sharon Shinn managed to write something so wonderful.  It's amazing.<br />First of all, the plot is so engrossing that you won't be able to put it down.  Gabriel is to be the next Archangel of Samaria, a world where angels can sing to Jovah (their &quot;god&quot;) in order to change weather.  They can cause rain to fall or not fall.  They can cause waters to rise.  They can cause lightning to fall and destroy.  The Archangel is the head angel, who can be either male or female.  This angel leads the Gloria, an annual day of singing that tells Jovah that harmony reigns on Samaria.  If they don't sing, the god will destroy the world with a bolt of lightning.<br />Rachel is a slave-girl in the house of a wealthy merchant.  She is also the chosen bride of the Archangel Gabriel, picked out by Jovah through the oracles.  Against her will, she is taken to Eyrie to marry Gabriel and become his angelica.  And so the story begins.  With surprises and plenty of action, the plot unfolds.<br />If the plot is great, then the character development that is intricately twisted into the story is better.  Rachel struggles with her new position and her relationship with Gabriel, whom she hardly talks with, except to argue.  She also attempts to improve the lives of the abandoned children in Velora, a city by Eyrie.  Meanwhile, Gabriel tries to fill his position as Archangel and get along with Rachel.  He hopes for a smooth transition between Archangels, especially since Raphael (the former Archangel) seems to have other plans.<br />The setting, the different types of people in Samaria, and the traditions, religion, and history of the planet are well done, too.  Somehow, Sharon Shinn manages to create a setting that is so believable that the reader actually slips into the fantasy world, becoming part of the story.<br />This is, by far, one of the best books I have ever read.  Ihave tried writing a few books, and to see a masterpiece like this just amazes me.  To anyone who has read this review: get it from your library, buy it (because it is definitely worth the money), whatever.  Just read it, because you are missing out on something if you don't.<br />If I could, I would rate this much more than five stars.  It's worth it.  Unfortunately, the scale is 1-5, so I can only put 5, although I consider it to be far above that number.  Archangel is one of the best books I have ever read.<br />**Sharon Shinn has written many other books, including Jovah's Angel and The Alleluia Files, which are the second two installments in the Samaria Trilogy.  I have read a few other of her books, all the ones I could get my hands on, and they are also good.  I consider the Samaria Trilogy to be the best of her work, though.  But that's me.  She is a wonderful author, one of the best.	2003-02-23
US	37169513	R3C3W6VL9ASHVM	0823417603	157861083	The Healer's Keep	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Seer and the Sword was better	This is a very good book, don't get me wrong.  It's full of magic and adventure, action and fun.  It has even got a really evil bad-guy, like in The Seer and the Sword.  It's a wonderful book, well-written, with good characters and plot, ect., ect.  But, in my opinion, it can't even compare with Victoria Hanley's first book.<BR>The book opens with Maeve (a slave) who is sold along with a boy to the evil Lord Morlen.  She manages to escape, bringing the boy with her.  Meanwhile, the daughter of Landen and Torina (Sara) goes to the Healer's Keep to get some training for her so far unknown gift.  She meets up with Dorjan, who is the half-brother of Maeve (although neither of them knows it) and Bern, a slave of the evil Shadow King, who can get on the good side of anyone with the help of his powers.  The book goes on to describe their struggles against the Shadow King and his servants, Lord Morlen and Bern.  As I said, it has a very action-packed plot.<BR>This book could be rated 5 stars, but I rated it four.  Why?  I just can't say that I liked it that much.  Sure, it was somewhat entertaining, and it satisfied some of my hunger for a sequel to Seer and the Sword, but it just wasn't what I hoped for.  I guess I just liked the characters of Torina and Landen from The Seer and the Sword better.  The plot, too, because it seemed to rely too much on magic in The Healer's Keep.  Magic was used for the reason for almost everything in Ms. Hanley's second book.  I guess The Seer and the Sword was just a little more realistic (as realistic as a fantasy book can be) in its plot.  Still, I sincerely hope that Ms. Hanley will write another book that continues the story of Torina, Landen, and their children.  It is worth a read if you liked The Seer and the Sword, but don't set your hopes to high.  It is a good read, but it's not the best.	2003-02-06
US	37169513	R2U803JZ9ZIF80	0743437691	164184657	Old Magic	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Entertaining	Kate is a witch.  Although she doesn't dress in black or fly around on a broomstick, she still has magic powers.  She can sense people's deepest emotions, and perform other tricks.  But other than that, she is almost perfectly normal.  She lives in the rainforest with her grandmother, who raised her ever since her mother ran off.  Her grandmother, Jillian, is the one who really trained her to use her powers.<br />When the new boy in school, Jarrod, conjures up a freak storm inside their science lab, Kate knows she has to get to know him.  But when she questions him about it, he has no idea what she's talking about.  Even though Jarrod considers her crazy, Kate still insists that he has magical powers.  And when a series of accidents in his family occurs, she also becomes convinced that his family is cursed.  The only problem though, is convincing Jarrod of the fact.<br />But after two near-death incidents in his family, Jarrod comes to Kate for help.  And so they embark on a thrilling adventure in a far away place, and a far away time.<br />I just checked this out of the library along with 7 other books and this is by far the best.  Although the magic part gets a little corny sometimes, I still loved the adventure and the sparking romance between Kate and Jarrod.  Although I didn't think that Jarrod would have really disbelieved Kate about his powers, since he was consciously using them, it is still an entertaining story.  If you are older than eleven, and love to read, you will most likely find this book enjoyable.  Try to get it from your library if you can, but I would almost consider it to be worth buying.  Just as long as you read it.<br />I rated this book *****	2002-09-22
US	37169513	R16K9N9Q69ZON3	0064406199	41808690	Once on This Island	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Good, but still...	I know, everyone rated this 5 stars. And I know that this book is for kids ages 6-10. I'm 14. This book, Once on this Island, is very good, but I think it could have been better. Still, it is written for younger children, so... Anyway, if you're older than ten, you'll most likely find it boring.<br />Mary is living on an island in the Great Lakes during the War of 1812. Her father goes off to fight when the British take over her island and shortly after her older brother leaves. Mary's older sister flirts with a British soldier while Mary runs the farm. An Indian friend leaves to fight for the British alongside his long-lost tribe, which adds to the confusion.<br />The first in a trilogy, the other 2 books are Farewell to this Island and Return to the Island. I havent read them yet, but Im planning to at least read Return to the Island. As I titled this review, it's good, but still...	2002-09-18
US	37169513	R1229K5W67K82X	002711080X	241844408	Tiger Eyes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Very Touching Story	Usually I read fantasy, or science fiction, or even historical fiction.  But every once in a while I will pick up one of those books that tell about a person in the present time.  This is one of those books.  I saw it in the library, on the young adult shelf, and I picked it up, mostly because I had already read all the other science fiction or fantasy books.  I flipped through it, and decided to check it out.  After all, if I didn't like it, I could just return it, right?<br />Well, I got home, and after a few days I read it.  And read it.  I read the whole thing straight through, and I even cried at certain parts.  This one book, Tiger Eyes, has the rare quality of that one story that will make you cry whenever you read it.  Whether you are a teen or an adult.  You will laugh with the girl Davie, and you will worry with her, and you will get angry alongisde her, and you will cry with her.  Some books are like that, and this is one, but others make you laugh at the effort the author made.<br />Tiger Eyes is about a young girl, Davie, whose father is murdered in a robbery at his 7-11 store.  She and her brother and her mother go to visit her aunt and uncle in New Mexico.  They need a change of scenery.  A few people ask about Davie's father, and what he does as a job, but she finds that she can't tell them the truth.  So she lies.<BR>Davie is afraid of everyone.  Anyone around her could be the murderer.  She sleeps with a knife under her pillow, and her mom carries a gun.  In New Mexico, Davie meets a young man at the canyon, who calls himself Wolf.  She admits that her father is dead, and is surprised when he says, \\"Then we have something in common.  My father is dying.\\"<BR>So, along with her meetings with Wolf, and her attendance at a nearby highschool, Davie begins to recover.  Unfortunately, she cannot say the same for her mom, who has frequent head-aches and spends most of the time in her room.  Davie is worried that her mom might never recover and that they might never return to New Jersey.  And meanwhile she has to cope with Wolf, and her friend Jane's drinking problems, and her aunt's fear of everything.  She would have never thought that her freshman year of highschool could have held so much fear, anxiety, and sadness.<br />As I titled this review, this is a very touching story.  It is filled with Davie's feelings.  It is a very very good book, and if you like this type of thing, you should read it.  After all, I usually DONT like this type of thing, and I STILL loved it.  I think it would be good for readers age 11+up.	2002-08-17
US	37169513	R1O8FATYJ3BX8Q	015201392X	339890058	Little Sister	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Story Full of Ancient Japanese Folklore	Little Sister is rich with Japan's history and folklore.  It tells the story of Mitsuko, a young thirteen year old girl who lives at Court.  But when stories are heard about dangerous monks setting fire to councillors houses, Mitsuko and her family are sent into hiding by her father.  Yet, while journeying on the road, they are attacked by monks, and Mustako's brother-in-law is killed.  Her sister Amaiko, who was married to the dead man, was saddened so much by her husband's death that her soul traveled elsewhere, leaving her body an empty shell.<br />Mustako knows she must save her sister, and she runs away, leaving her mother and other sisters alone.  She takes Amaiko with her, hoping to find help.  She stumbles upon some tengu (Japanese shapeshifting \\"demons\\") and befriends one of them, who is named Goranu.  Goranu helps her to retrieve her sister's soul, and their adventures take them to the king of the sea, a Japanese \\"hell\\" and so on until she finds her brother-in-law's ghost.  She knows that unless she finds a way to let his soul rest in peace, his ghost will go on  haunting and her sister will never be able to go on with her life.  Yet still, what can she do?  She doesn't know where her family has gone, and her only friend is a demon.<br />Little Sister is a wonderful tale, well-written and full of Japanese history and folklore.  Good for any ages, boy or girl, whatever.  Anyone would like it.  If you read it and like it, go on with its sequel, The Heavenward Path.<br />***If you like Kara Dalkey's writing, read her Water Trilogy, which contains the three books Ascension, Reunion, and Transformation.  These three books tell of the lost city of Atlantis.  Read them all!!!	2002-07-10
US	37169513	R1UYIOFHCKOK8U	0064408108	270230920	Transformation (Water Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Trilogy Ends with Action, Betrayal, and Friendship	Nia, Corwin, and their Farworlder have finally completed their naming.  But there is still trouble ahead.  Ma'el, the evil mermyd tyrant, has taken over Atlantis and enslaved its people.  Determined not to allow Ma'el to get away with his evil intentions, Nia and Corwin know that they must somehow travel back to Atlantis and free the city from Ma'el.  Unfortunately, Corwin is human, and cannot breathe underwater.  Yet, a secret about his past comes to light, and Corwin discovers that he is half human, half mermyd, with partially developed gills.  Nia and the farworlder manage to help his gills develop, and the three of them return to Atlantis.<br />When they return to Atlantis, Nia discovers that her family has been either imprisoned in dry-rooms or killed.  With the return of the new Avatars, the Atlanteans gain hope.  They rebel against Ma'el, but he still manages to capture Nia, Corwin, and their farworlder.  Trapped in seperate cells with no way to communicate telepathically with each other, it seems like there is no chance for their escape.  Will Ma'el succeed in enslaving the mermyds of Atlantis?  Or will Corwin and Nia escape and prevent him?  The trilogy is brought to an end with this final book, Transformation.<br />READ THIS TRILOGY!  It's creative, different, and action-packed.  I LOVED this book!  I especially liked how the three, Nia, Corwin, and the Farworlder, communicate telepathically.  But best of all, this story ties in perfectly with the King Arthur legend.  (You'll have to read it to find out how.)  For Ages 8-14, and science fiction or fantasy fans.	2002-07-05
US	37169513	R106XW55A6IRM8	0064408094	234962539	Reunion (Water Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Quest to Save Atlantis Continues	In the second book of the Water trilogy, sixteen year old Corwin is used to his tough life.  An orphan, he lives with his guardian, Fenwyck.  Fenwyck is an entertainer/thief.  But when Fenwyck hears that the king is looking for a fatherless young boy who is prescient, Corwin knows that trouble is just around the corner.  When they meet with the king, and Fenwyck is caught and executed for stealing, Corwin finds himself a wanted man, with his only friend dead.<br />Now living in hiding on the shores of Wales, Corwin discovers a strange shell which turns his already mixed-up world upside down.  He meets up with Nia, a mermyd from Atlantis, who is searching for the shell.  But the shell is stolen from Corwin by the king's men before Nia can retrieve it.  Corwin knows that he has to recover the shell for Nia, or else they both will die.  For, inside the shell lives the Farworlder king of Atlantis and since it had injected a poison into both Nia and Corwin, the three of them are joined for their life: When one of the three dies, the other two will go with them.  And, unless the shell can be found and kept from Nia's enemy, Ma'el, the city of Atlantis will be destroyed by him. And so the adventure continues...<br />This book was really good.  It continues the story from book one, Ascension.  If you are considering reading this, you should definately read the first book first.  Otherwise it will be very confusing.  I loved this series a lot.  Not only is it well-written and action-packed, but it is also creative and much different from anything I've ever read.  Take my advice and read this trilogy, which is for science fiction and fantasy lovers.  Ages 8-14.	2002-07-04
US	37169513	R11TJYVT1VNUUV	0064408086	124620826	Ascension (Water Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Story of Atlantis	Nia is a mermyd who lives in Atlantis.  She is part of the Bluefin Clan, and expects to represent her family and clan during the trials.  The trials consist of seven tests that test a mermyd's strength physically, mentally, and magically.  These trials will determine who will be the next Avatar of Atlantis.  The Avatar is a mermyd who is honored by getting joined with an octopus-type creature called a Farworlder.  After this joining, the Avatar will be able to know all the creature's thoughts and share its intelligence.  The Avatar will also be respected, allowing to join the Council (Atlantis's government) and help make important decisions.<br />Nia knows that she is the best choice for her clan, and she is devastated shen she isn't chosen.  But she still manages to help Gavun, who is the clan's choice, and Cephan, the Stingray clan's choice.  But as the trials begin, Nia suspects some trickery and magic is being used to help Gavun win in the trials.  But worst of all, she begins to suspect her grandfather, a former Avatar, is behind it.  As Nia tries to answer all her questions regarding the trials, she discovers that the people she trusted decieved her and that she is the only one able to save her world, Atlantis, from disaster.<br />I loved this book a lot!  It's creative and entertaining.  Every bit of the book was unlike anything I've ever read.  I'd reccomend it to ages 10-14, since older readers probably wouldn't enjoy it and younger readers wouldn't understand it.  Best for people who like fantasy or science fiction.  And, also, it's the first of a trilogy - the other 2 books are Reunion and Transformation.  Take my advice and read it!	2002-06-30
US	37169513	R49K4OUWLDM62	0689837852	556903311	Roanoke: A Novel of the Lost Colony	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Well-Written, Action-Packed, and Interesting	Roanoke: A Novel of the Lost Colony is a terrific book.  I loved it!  Not only is it full of actual facts, such as the state of the colony after it is discovered to be abandoned, but it has actual historic figures: Sir Walter Raleigh, John White, and the first baby born in the new world, Virginia.  It was interesting to read Sonia Levitin's view on what might have happened, too.<br />William is an ordinary English boy, apprenticed to a carpenter.  But his master is not kind, and William runs away, branded as not only a runaway, but a thief as well (he is innocent as to the latter charge).  He knows he must escape England before the police catch up with him, and when he arrives at an old friend's home, he discovers that a man named John White is going to establish a colony in the new world.  This is William's chance, and he takes it.<br />Soon William finds himself on board a ship, headed for the new world.  He must work to pay his passage, but he still enjoys it.  He hears tales of the wild savages who hate the white men, and he meets many different people, with many different views of the voyage.  He also discovers a stowaway, whom he befriends - Elizabeth.<br />When they reach the New World, the ship captain tricks them into landing at Roanoke, where indians are rumored to live, instead of peaceful Cheseapeake.  William finds himself befriending the \\"savages\\" while establishing the new colony.  While other colonist fear and hate the indians, William makes friends with them and even falls in love with one.  But times are harsh, and not only are the colonists trying to prepare for winter, but they must protect themselves from other indians that hate the white men.  William is caught up between the indians fear and hatred of the colonists and the colonists fear and hatred of the indians.  Will he ever get the indians and white men to trust each other and get along?<br />The story is told with much description and it carefully depicts all the characters actions and feelings.  It is a wonderful book with almost everything a reader could want.  I reccomend it to anyone, especially people interested in history or the mystery of the disappearing Roanoke colony.  Ages 9 and up, even grown ups would enjoy it immensely.	2002-06-10
US	37169513	R33JZDT6K4633I	0316604658	39005540	Operating Codes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Creative and Entertaining	Graham and his sister Mattie are normal kids.  They have a mom, who isn't working, and a dad who works on top secret projects for the national defense association for Britian.  But when they move to a spooky old house, everything changes.  While trying to fit in at school and make new friends, Graham senses that something strange is going in on the house.  At night, Mattie and Graham hear the sounds of soldiers marching, and discover writing on their window in the morning.  Their parents believe that the children are just imagining it, but Graham knows they're wrong.  He goes on a mission to find out the truth, meeting an older woman who once did research on the house's history.  And then, as the pieces fall together, Graham discovers something horrible that happened at his house many years ago: a young soldier, arrested for treason because he leaked information about a poisonous gas being made there.  The young soldier was executed, although the gas was a truly horrible death device.<br />Meanwhile, something of the sort is happening to Graham's father in the present.  He is arrested for putting information about a top secret plane (another death device) on the internet.  Of course, he never did such a thing, but will Graham and Mattie be able to prove their father's innocence in a court of law?  Will they be able to prove that their father was not the one that did it?<br />Operating codes is a ghost story and a mystery all in one.  It is suspenseful and spooky, and a wonderful book.  Although it isn't the best that I've ever read, it is very good.  I reccomend it to anyone ages 9-13.	2002-06-10
US	37169513	R1BCQP18AVXIDW	0385327137	200912112	The Minstrel's Tale	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Great and Refreshingly Different Story	First of all, I loved this book and have read it at least three times. It's a great book, with carefully depicted characters and a wonderful plot. I read it straight through each time, I was so caught up in the story.<br />Main Character:  Judith a.k.a. Jude a.k.a. Stephen: a girl engaged to marry a disgusting and revolting man (this is set in almost medeivel times), she loves music and wants to become one of the Kings Minstrel's, she is strong-willed and brave.<br />Other Character:  Robin: a King's Minstrel who meets Judith and goads her on with her plan of running away...<br />Plot: <BR>1.Judith runs away to escape her stepfather and disgusting betrothed, disguising herself as a boy<br />2.Judith a.k.a Stephen is robbed by a bandit, and finds her way to an old friend's house, where a young lady falls in love with \\"Stephen, Judith's brother\\"<br />3.Judith makes a daring escape from an abbey, where she spots the bandit again<br />4. Judith, now \\"Jude\\" enters the minstrel's training school, where she is terrorized by the other boys, yet she must still find a way to survive with out anyone finding out her secret<br />All in all, it's a terrific book for young adults.<br />And if you like this book, I suggest you read Tamora Pierce's Song of the Lioness Quartet, Seven Daughters and Seven Sons, Samantha and the Cowboy (which is a romance), which all have a girl disguising herself as a boy. Or if you just liked the journey part, I suggest you read The Ramsey Scallop, which is sorta like it.<BR>Anyway, if you get anything from this review I hope its this:<BR>READ THIS BOOK!!!	2002-06-06
US	37169513	R1HT8FWNSUTWFE	0786807555	617099678	Under a War-Torn Sky	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Trapped Behind Enemy Lines	When Henry's plane is shot down during an air battle (in WWII), he finds himself behind enemy lines with no help.  Henry relies on friendly Frenchmen (and women) to make it to safety.  The brave helpers risk their lives to save him, and in the end many of them are caught.  Henry goes from family to family on his journey to safety.  He gets caught by the Nazis, tortured and interrogated, but he still manages to not betray anyone who helped him.  All throughout the story, Henry's adventures are described with details, making the reader feel as though they are right alongside Henry.  It's a wonderful war story. Under a War-Torn Sky is one of the best war stories I've read.<br />  It's action-packed, and every minute I was reading I found myself holding my breath, waiting to see what would happen.  I wasn't disappointed.  Some parts are sad, some are joyful, and some are suspenseful.  I read the whole thing in one sitting, waiting to see what would happen.<br />  I recommend this to anyone who wants to know about World War II, is interested in planes, or anyone that likes to read adventure stories.  I think it would be best for ages 13&up - even grownups would enjoy it!  So, if you fit any of those categories, READ THIS BOOK!!	2002-05-13
US	37169513	R1CF8TEP0TH6VZ	0064473414	592825229	Samantha and the Cowboy	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Romance	Samantha and the Cowboy is an okay book.  It may not be the best, but it is good enough.  It seems that this is in a sort-of series, with three other books that I know of (Belle and the Beau, Anna and the Duke, and ?Gwyneth and the Thief? (I think)).  B and the B is about a runaway slave. A and D is about an english girl in perhaps the 1800's.  G and T is set in medievel times.<br />Samantha is a normal girl.  She lives Out West with her family, which consists of an older brother, a younger brother, a younger sister, and a mother.  Samantha is sixteen.  When she sees an advertisement for cowhands, her life changes.  Samantha's family needs the hundred dollar paycheck, but her younger siblings are too young and her older one doesn't want to go.  (The story is set in the post-Civil War times, in the western south)  Samantha has always wanted an adventure, so she cuts her hair and gets a little 'interview' with the boss.  He doesn't want to hire her at first but she ends up on the trail as a cowhand, disguised as a boy.  She learns about cattle from Matthew, a handsome, eighteen-year-old cowhand.  Gradually, Samantha(under the name of Sam) falls in love with him.  There's one big problem.  Matt thinks she's a boy.  But when he finds out that she is really a girl, can she win back his trust and convince him not to tell anyone her secret?<br />As I said, it's an okay book, not the best, but still entertaining.  Written for young adults(girls), it's a fun read.  For those who've already read it, I suggest Seven Daughters and Seven Sons or the Lioness Quartet by Tamora Pierce.	2002-05-02
US	37169513	R1B5XQZURJYX0W	0380717115	130626663	The Rain Catchers (Avon Flare Book)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Well-Written But Boring	The Rain Catchers is well-written.  It's about a girl named Grayling who lives with her grandmother and her grandmother's friends.  Grayling always hears her guardians telling stories, but not once has she heard her own story from the beginning.  She encounters many trials including love, death, illness, and divorce.  This book is about what happens to her; it's not an adventure book or a mystery or action story.<BR>Now I will admit that the reason I didn't like this book is because I am the type of person that enjoys action and adventure books.  That is why I gave it three stars.  I just thought the plot was kind of boring.  If you DO like non-action books, books about normal people,ect., READ THIS.  If you're like me, don't read it.  Ages 9-15.	2002-03-24
US	37169513	R8F1EOAQX6QFQ	0064472639	101324815	The Books of Fell	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Very Good, But Strange	The Books of Fell is a 595 page long book (three stories combined) about a young man named John Fell.  A car accident with a stranger changes his life, and soon he finds himself in a fancy prep school.  He gets tangled up in a strange fraternity-type group in the school whose members pledge to look out for each other, for life.  It seems like good luck at first to get into the group, but soon things get complicated.  A student is found dead, and Fell doesn't know if it's murder of suicide.<BR>The Books of Fell is a combination of a murder mystery, a romance, and an action book.  There is one problem - it's confusing.  I could barely understand what was happening.  (That's the reason for only four stars)  Everything is incredibly complicated.<BR>I would reccomend this book to mystery lovers but only if you have a couple of hours of free time.  It's very long, and you might have to read some parts twice so that you know what's going on.  It is a very clever plot, with plenty of strange twists.  And it's original - it isn't at all like any book I've ever read.  I would reccomend to ages 12&up.  It's way too confusing for anyone younger.<BR>The Books of Fell is three stories combined- Fell, Fell Back, and Fell Down.  (Haha, very clever).  The first tells of Fell's entrance into the school, the second is a murder mystery and the third is the action part.  Fell Down (the third part) is veeerrryyy strange and confusing and almost totally different from the first two sections.<BR>So if you like mysteries or M. E. Kerr's other books, read it.  Otherwise skip it.	2002-03-24
US	37169513	R1E9AOQ3VBVD3B	0606020438	574798834	Spies and Lies (Nancy Drew & Hardy Boys Super Mysteries #13)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	WOW- Suprise Ending!	When Nancy Drew goes undercover at the FBI Academy to protect a trainee, she has no idea that Frank and Joe Hardy are there as well.  Nancy has been asked to be a 'guardian angel' for Judy Noll, the senator's daughter.  An unknown assasin has already tried to kill Judy once, and the FBI needs some help.  Soon after she arrives, Nancy meets Frank and Joe, who are also posing as trainees.  They are working 'to expose a corrupt FBI agent in an industrial espionage scheme.'  All is normal at first.  Then Judy's roomate, Erin, is found murdered on a jogging trail.  The hypothesis is that the killer mistaked her for Judy.  Nancy decides that the only way she can save Judy is to pretend to be Judy.  Set herself up as the target.  Both girls look alike.  Then Nancy stumbles upon a dark secret which changes the whole situation.  The question isn't \\"Who wants Judy murdered?\\" but it's \\"Who wants Erin killed?\\"<br />Meanwhile, Frank and Joe are on their own assignment.  Though I personally think Nancy's part is the more exciting one, F and J have big parts in the book as well.  A good mystery for anyone, with a special twist at the end.  I loved Spies and Lies!  It's one of my favorite Nancy Drew & Hardy Boys books!	2002-02-28
US	37169513	R38AJLKIGH2VXZ	0441644511	190761387	The Outlaws of Sherwood (Ace Fantasy)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Awesome Robin Hood Retelling	First of all, I must say that I don't agree with the reading level above (definitely for ages 8-14, not 4-8).  And then I have to agree with most other reviewers by saying \\"THIS BOOK IS AWESOME - YOU HAVE GOT TO READ IT!!!!!!!\\"  The storyline is basically a retelling of Robin Hood.  (that's sort of obvious after reading the title - Outlaws of Sherwood) Robin McKinley has all the characters I've heard of in all the Robin Hood stories I've read. I think.  Anyway, there's Robin and Marian (duh) and the Sheriff of Nottingham, Little John, Will Scarlet, and King Richard and Prince John.  And lots of others.  I loved this book - so READ IT!<br />For people who read it already, and are reading this review in hopes of finding more Robin Hood books, you're in luck!  More books-<BR>The Forestwife, by Theresa Thomlinson (and sequel Child of the May)<BR>and for adults, Lady of the Forest is an awesome Robin Hood story(but not for children)<BR>There's not many good books (interesting ones) about Robin Hood.<BR>But if you like Robin Hood, definately read The Outlaws of Sherwood.      8-)	2002-02-27
US	37169513	R1Y798CTJGBY31	0688135633	429115335	Seven Daughters and Seven Sons	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Adventurous and Romantic	Seven Daughters and Seven Sons is mainly about an Arab girl who decides to help her family.  But not in the way you would think.  In this place and time period, girls weren't allowed or expected to be able to manage a business.  That's what the boys do.  So when Buran's father (who has seven daughters, and no one to help him) becomes in desperate need of money, Buran decides to help.  So she disguises herself as a boy, travels to a distant city, and becomes a very successful merchant. Now meanwhile, Buran's rich uncle has seven sons, and he has sent them to distant cities to become merchants.  Unfortunately, they don't do so well.  So, later in the story, after Buran becomes rich as well, she discovers that the sons wasted her uncle's money, and she tricks them into doing something that will be very humiliating for them later.<BR>Oh, and while Buran is disguised as a boy, she falls in love with the city's crown prince, Mahmud.  Of course, he thinks she is a boy, and she can't tell him the truth because she would lose everything she has worked for.<br />Part of the story is told by Buran, another part by Mahmud.  But it all collaborates nicely to tell a tale of adventure and romance.  I think it would be best for ages 10&up.  I believe even adults would enjoy it, but teens especially would love it.<br />If you like stories like this, I reccomend all of Tamora Pierce's \\"Song of the Lioness\\" books.  They're a lot like this one, with the girl-disguising-herself-as-a-boy theme.	2002-02-21
US	37169513	R1X3M1B0GTA3LA	0152017658	645526734	A Well-Timed Enchantment	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Terrific Book!!	Not only is this adventurous and romantic, it's funny too. The main character is Deanna.  When she drops her watch into a well, and it is transported into medievel France, Deanna must get it back before it changes history.  She has only one other thing to help her - a cat-turned-into-a-boy.  Okay, I know what you're thinking.  How in the world could something as simple as a watch change history?  Well, suppose someone found it and believed it was something magical.  And then, suppose the king found out about this watch, and he took it.  Well, you know how these kings get - if one king has something, another king will want it.  It could start a war, and then...       Well, anyway, Deanna and the cat-boy have to get back the watch.  So, in medievel France, Deanna and Oliver (the cat) meet a bunch of annoying (and rather stupid) nobles.  And the story goes on with even more adventure.  As for the romance, a lady noble falls in love (or at least thinks she has) with Oliver, another (Leonard) decides to marry Deanna, and finally, at the end, Deanna and Oliver fall in love.  Okay, so far you haven't heard of anything funny.  But there is plenty of humour.  Throughout the story Oliver has to get used to being a human (he's used to being a cat and this isn't an easy switch to make).  For instance, here's a part where Oliver is having trouble with using expressions.<br />\\"'...turns out since Leonard lost so badly, he figures his lady must be a real dog, so he wants to replace her with me.'  Oliver stopped and stared at her. 'Leonard is marrying a dog?'\\"<br />Oliver also has trouble adjusting to a new diet of human food after all those years of mice.   Anyway, if this review hasn't convinced you that this book is either adventurous, romantic, or funny, you probably wouldn't enjoy it. I'd say for ages 8-14.	2002-02-21
US	37169513	R2SJK9RGKORR8F	0064406016	926567377	The Ramsay Scallop	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not the Best, But Interesting	Although it's not the best I've ever read, (which is partly why I gave it a 4-star rating) The Ramsay Scallop is interesting, particularly for people who like long-ago stories and who are doing reports for the years around 1300.  As for just a fun-read, it's okay.  The characters go through a lot of development.  For instance, when they leave on a pilgramage, Eleanor and Thomas (they're betrothed, by the way), at first they hate each other.  They don't talk at all, and one will do something the other person has warned against, just to spite the other person.  By the end, though, they have come to love each other and Eleanor has gotten to know the world a little better.<br />The Plot: After Thomas returns from the Crusades, not all that stable after all the killing he has seen, the resident 'preist' sends both Thomas and Eleanor on a pilgrimage.  He hopes to let them get to know each other a little better.  The rest of the book is about the people they meet and the adventures they have.  There are many different stories within this book, mostly tales told by people they meet up with during the journey.  So the plot is mostly about their journey.<br />It's a very educational story, telling a lot how life was back then.  But if you're the type of person, like me, that loves adventure, you won't get much of it in this book.  I'd say it's best for ages 9&up.	2002-02-21
US	37169513	R25ASG8CK0KKQM	1862054177	547578792	The Lady and the Squire	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hilarious, Suspenseful, Exciting - YOU'VE GOT TO READ THIS!!	Okay, first of all, this book is superb.  It has wonderful descriptions, the characters are unique, and it has an eventful plot.  Could it get any better?  You bet.  It is funny, and a good book to get kids interested in reading.  I would reccomend it those who love medieval stories, adventure stories, humourous stories, fantasy,...  Pretty much anyone!  Probably best for ages 7 - 14.<BR>I read this book before I read the prequel, and it wasn't so confusing.  I've been looking for the first one, The Knight and the Squire, but so far I haven't found it in any bookstores. (sigh!) Now here's what it's about:<BR>Setting: medieval France<BR>Characters:   Tom - an adventurous young squire<BR>Ann - a mischievious young girl who masquerades as a knight for most of the book<BR>and Emily - a young Lady who Tom runs into and immediately falls in love with during his adventures<BR>Plot: Tom is kidnapped, thrown in a dungeon with a cannibal, condemned to death, he escapes, runs into Emily (who decides to come with him), and as he is escaping he discovers that the whole English army is drunk.  Oh, and later he falls into a well, jumps off a palace wall to avoid being captured by the Pope's guards, and Emily, who thinks Ann is a knight, falls in love with 'him' until she learns the truth (that Ann is a girl).<BR>Now the plot isn't the only thing that will make you laugh until you cry - for here are some examples of chapter titles:<BR>\\"The Town Where Everyone is Drunk\\" and \\"How Tom Nearly Invented the Flushing Lavatory Five Hundred Years Before Thomas Crapper\\" and \\"What Happened Under the Pope's Floorboards\\"<BR>Okay, so if you don't think that's funny, you probably shouldn't read it.<BR>But, anyway, it's a funny, suspenseful, exciting book.  I congratulate Terry Jones and say to anyone thinking about buying it \\"If you don't read it, you're really missing something!\\"	2002-02-21
US	37169513	RV257BXYCYOZY	074340078X	893754726	Silver Eyes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A MUST-READ	Silver Eyes is an awesome book! After I read the first one, Violet Eyes, I kept waiting for the sequel (this) to be published. When I finally got to read it, I wasn't disappointed. Although the first has more humour, Silver Eyes is still a great book. I'd reccomend it to ages 12&up. Its a little confusing for younger readers. It is a science fiction story, so people who like that sort of stuff would probably like it best. But I think anyone would enjoy it. One thing though - read Violet Eyes first, or else you'll be a little lost.<BR>One of the best parts is the plot. Although it doesn't start where Violet Eyes left off, it is eventually explained how Angel came to work at the company called Silver Dollar. By the end everything is explained, so if you're in the middle of it and totally confused, don't worry. You'll understand everything once you reach the end. There is also another huge twist to the plot at the end, which I'm not gonna tell you about.  You'll just have to read it yourself.<BR>Silver Eyes is full of suspense,it has a very inricate and action-packed plot, and I'm sure any reader would love it. Silver Eyes is very well written, and I, for one, hope there will be at least one other sequel.<BR>A Must-Read!! :)	2002-02-20
US	37169513	R2NUREPSRNH3TR	0380800985	509464521	Sir Stalwart (Book One of the King's Daggers)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great book for teens	Sir Stalwart is a wonderful book, the first of a trilogy. It has a great plot, the characters are described well, and it's action-packed. Science Fiction or Fantasy fans would like it the most, probably. If you've already read it, go on to the next two, The Crooked House and Silvercloak. Silvercloak's my favorite.<BR>As for plot, Stalwart is sent on a secret mission, a very dangerous secret mission, to help find some people that want to kill King Ambrose.  How?  They use a White Sister (a person trained to detect magic) for bait. When they (Stalwart and Emerald, the White Sister) are captured by those who they are looking for, and Stalwart meets an old enemy, the suspense builds up until the final scene.<BR>Sir Stalwart is a very entertaining read, a book that can be read over and over.  It's a young adult book, and I totally agree with the age rating. BUY THIS BOOK!	2002-02-20
US	37169513	RIBPFZIMAKJ38	0803726678	97282670	Shylock's Daughter	Books	3	2	3	N	N	I've Read Better	First of all, the title and cover explanation of the book don't exactly describe the book all that well.  After you read them, you think that the story will be about Shylock's daughter, Jessica.  Instead, a lot of the book is told by the point of view of Dalilah, Jessica's sort of servant/friend/sister.<BR>   The main reason I'm giving it three stars is because I don't think that many people would enjoy it - probably only history and Shakespeare buffs.  So if you're not into either, it's not the book for you.  Also, I was a little disappointed after I read it: it wasn't what I was expecting.  It is definately a Young Adult/Adult book, though.  The description of the setting, events and characters is wonderful, and the plot is okay.  The characters all show some development.  It is a good book, I guess, but it will never be one of my favorites.	2002-02-20
US	37169513	RK31UZUZ3YPZ0	0380801000	929974054	Silvercloak (King's Daggers, Bk 3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	You Can't Put It Down	I read the first book of The King's Daggers series in a hotel on the 4th of July.  All through the fireworks I was waiting to get back to the book, which is called Sir Stalwart.  There are three books in the series - Sir Stalwart, The Crooked House, and Silvercloak.  All three are good but I consider Silvercloak the best.  Now, if you want to read one of the series, I suggest you start with the first one, otherwise you'll have no idea what's going on.<br />Silvercloak's main characters are Stalwart and Emerald.  Stalwart is a sort of undercover agent for King Ambrose, king of Chivial.  His fondest wish is to become a King's Blade - one of the group of warriors that protects the king.  Emerald is a White Sister - a person who is trained to detect magic.<br />Now the story is taking place during a time when Silvercloak, a famous assasin, is planning to kill King Ambrose.  Silvercloak has already killed two armed Blades, which is no easy feat.  Both Stalwart and Emerald are sent undercover to try and catch Silvercloak.<br />The beginning of the book mainly tells about Stalwart's and Emerald's going undercover.  Stalwart becomes a stable boy in a town near Ironhall, the place where Blades are trained.  It is believed that Ironhall is where the assasination attempt will take place.  Emerald is placed in Ironhall, as a Blade-in-training, disguised as a boy.<br />Halfway through the book, the action begins.  Stalwart chases Silvercloak to Ironhall and soon all the major characters are gathered there - Stalwart, Emerald, King Ambrose, and Silvercloak.  The story goes on to the point where Stalwart is the only defense between the king and assasin as they are trapped on a catwalk with no other help in sight.  So, if you want to find out whether, and, if so, how Stalwart and Emerald defeat the invincible assasin, you'll just have to read the book.  After all, I can't tell you everything.<br />Silvercloak is an awesome book throughout, but personally, I think the ending is thebest.  Silvercloak would be among the top five if I had to make a list of my favorite books.  And I read a lot too. It is a wonderful story, very exciting.  Probably people that enjoy a sort of medievel story would like it best, but I think it would capture anyone's attention.  As for age, it's probably best for ages 11 on up.  Silvercloak is one of those books that you can't put down until you've finished it.	2002-02-19
