US	37234590	R3H6IXKYKVE3IT	0375406778	246289375	No Country for Old Men	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Strong and Powerful Medicine, Almost Too Chilling to Put Down	One hundred and fifteen reviews at the time I write this one, including one written in mock-Cormac McCarthy voice, and it is clear that people either love or hate this book. Put me in the love category - this is a brilliant and unforgettable work. NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN breaks McCarthy's mold, moving at a fast pace with relatively little description, a lot less lyricism, and minimalist dialog whose pitch and tone creates an atmosphere all its own. In fact, McCarthy's dialog here creates the scenery. Who needs mountains and trees and rivers and hawks and wolves and horses when we have these sparse but rich voices?  <br /> <br />Those who criticize this book for its violence miss the point - America was founded and conquered by violence, leads the world in gun ownership and deaths from guns, spawns Columbines and drive-by shootings, and imposes its military might more freely on others than any other country in the world. Through his stories, McCarthy explodes the myth of a benign, peaceful and peace-loving America. We are all of us just a random coin flip away from a BTK killer or a Jeffrey Dahmer, a Columbine, or a drug deal gone sour that leaves innocent bystanders dead in its wake. The title, NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN, is a gorgeous double entendre about the story's contents - the setting of the book is no place for old men to live and work any more (witness Sheriff Bell's fear of the psychopathic killer, Chigurh), and it has become a place in which few old men remain alive. They are all too busy being killed off in their relative youth.  <br /> <br />As for the main characters, Anton Chigurh comes close to being one of the scariest creatures ever described in fiction. Utterly amoral, his curious breed of ethics consists of being true to his word and honest with respect to his clients' dealings. He would never take an unearned cent, yet he thinks nothing of blowing a steel bolt through the forehead of anyone who gets in his way (or who might remember him). He wreaks havoc through south Texas and yet remains virtually invisible - almost no one who could describe him is still alive. Although he appears to be named for a \\"chigger\\" - a parasitic larva found in the southwest that sucks the blood of humans - his bite is far worse. He is Death itself, minus the black hooded cloak and the long-handled scythe. Is there anyone who doesn't believe deep inside that there are more Chigurh's (or near-Chigurh's) among us? <br /> <br />It is through his faint-hearted pursuit of Chigurh that Sheriff Bell confronts his own fears and demons. Bell's meditations, short chapters presented entirely in italics, function almost like seeing his life flash before his eyes at the moment of death. He contemplates his love and life with his wife Loretta, his cowardly behavior at his moment of truth in World War II, and his ineffectualness in protecting the citizens of his county when the time came that they truly needed him.  <br /> <br />I have read every one of McCarthy's books and loved all but the most recent of them. NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN is clearly not the novel many readers expected of Cormac McCarthy, but frankly, I'm happy it's not another CROSSING or CITIES OF THE PLAIN. Beside, where does it say that he has to keep rewriting BLOOD MERIDIAN or ALL THE PRETTY HORSES? This is a fascinating read, at once a bloody crime thriller, a meditation on chance and random violence in American society, and an exploration of what makes for a life well-lived. Read it for what McCarthy gives us, not for what you bring to it in the way of expectations or preconceptions. The story is strong medicine, but nothing else seems to work any more. After you finish, listen to the song \\"If It Were Up to Me,\\" by Cheryl Wheeler. It offers an interesting accompaniment to this book.	2005-10-06
US	37234590	RNE9RAOYL1N2S	0312306407	48048221	South of the Clouds: Exploring the Hidden Realms of China	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	A Revealing Look at Hidden Aspects of Chinese Culture and Life	In the Prologue to SOUTH OF THE CLOUDS, author Seth Faison tells a story about Farmer Yang's discovery of the famed terra cotta warriors near the city of Xi'an. Like much of this revealing look at the China few Westerners ever see, however, Mr. Faison's narrative is more than just a retelling of history. After years of being unrewarded and forgotten, Farmer Yang was hired to sign copies of tourist books about the excavation site. As Mr. Faison soon discovers, there are two Farmer Yang's working at competing stores. Which one is real, or is either of them the true discoverer? Mr. Faison finds the truth, but in doing so, we learn that the real Farmer Yang is being paid a paltry 280 yuan a month, about $35, for his services. Thus, in his first fourteen pages, the author demonstrates convincingly that we are embarking on a true insider's tour of a fascinating country.    In SOUTH OF THE CLOUDS, Mr. Faison describes his experiences as a student at Shaanxi Teachers University in Xi'an, then as a journalist in China for most of 1987 to 1999. He cuts his reportorial teeth at the Hong Kong Standard and the South China Morning Post, then moves to the New York Times where he works as a roving reporter out of Beijing before being elevated to Shanghai Bureau Chief.     Mr. Faison's writings are loosely connected vignettes, drawn from the wealth of people and events he experienced during China's economic and cultural opening in the 1990's. As a result, his stories range widely over the Chinese terrain, not just geographically, but also politically and culturally. We see up close and from the inside the events at Tiananmen Square in mid-1989, DVD piracy in Guangdong Province, the Falun Gong sect in Yunnan Province, the Chinese government's actions in Tibet, illegal immigration to the U.S. from Fujian Province, homosexuality in Shanghai, and transsexuality in Beijing. In each instance, however, Mr. Faison gives us more than just reportorial narrative. His are intensely personal stories, first-hand accounts of Chinese life told by the people who have been living them. We meet a policeman in Xi'an, a gay professor in Shanghai, a video pirate in Guangdong, a renowned transsexual choreographer, a Fujianese woman who risked everything to help send her husband to New York, and a Falun Gong practitioner whose life was changed by their version of qi gong.      The author's personal story connects these various threads into a whole cloth. As Mr. Faison learns more and more about Chinese culture and life, he grapples with issues in his own life: a sense of not being sufficiently masculine, fear of emotional closeness, need for acceptance as a Westerner in China, and a sense of meaning and purpose. His slow discovery of China coincides with his own discovery of self, a journey that leads him through sexual relationships with Chinese women, a near addiction to sauna massages, an intense relationship with the transsexual Jin Xing, and a flirtation with Buddhism resulting from a trip to Lhasa. A return visit to Tibet in search of the opportunity to witness a Whitmanesque sky burial appears to create the necessary epiphany, the \\"St. Paul struck by lightning\\" moment, when the author realizes he is ready to move on to the next stage of his life, to accept himself for what he is and to commit himself to another person.     SOUTH OF THE CLOUDS is an engaging and highly readable story of China, its people, and one man's struggle to understand both that world and himself. Mr. Faison gently recaps China's recent history through the stories of individual citizens, exposing everyday elements of Chinese culture as well as selected aspects of its underside. Having lived in China (Suzhou) off and on since 2001, I can attest to his deft touch in bringing the character of the country and its people to life. I sometimes felt I could see the people he met even as I read about them, imagining their faces and body language and behaviors.     As almost anyone who has spent real time in China will say, the experience is life-changing. Seth Faison illustrates how and why. I heartily recommend SOUTH OF THE CLOUDS to anyone seeking a deeper understanding of modern China and the life and culture and hopes and fears and dreams of its people.	2005-09-29
US	37234590	R3KK2Z8MX4LUZ7	0805076069	145341889	Bait and Switch: The (Futile) Pursuit of the American Dream	Books	3	23	32	N	N	Baited, Switched, and Disappointed	In 2002, Barbara Ehrenreich's magnificently documented the taken-for-granted world of minimum wage workers by getting jobs in different parts of the country as a house cleaner, a waitress, a nursing home aide, and a Wal-Mart salesworker, Ms. Ehrenreich's approach for that book, NICKEL AND DIMED, was risky, since her story could have come across as so much journalistic slumming. NICKEL AND DIMED worked because readers lived those lives with her, struggled to make ends meet with her, and cared with her about her equally struggling, minimum wage colleagues. Her immersion in that world was palpable, giving her story a feeling of reality and, most important, credibility. <br /> <br />In BAIT AND SWITCH, Ms. Ehrenreich set out to shine her sarcastic and socially conscious light on the white collar world, to give herself (and us) a \\"firsthand glimpse into the midlevel corporate world.\\" Regrettably, she proved unable to crack that world and find her sought-after, $50K per year job (which rose to $70K during her search, to her disadvantage) in public relations or corporate communications. Faced with the prospect of having no story to tell, she opted instead to describe her failure to get inside, shifting her focus from Corporate America to its excessed, downsized, squeezed out detritus - the middle-aged unemployed. The resulting book loosely follows her ten-month search effort, filled with resume coaches, career coaches, outplacement consultants, dress for success counselors, job search websites, and networking events featuring either amateurish group therapy or Christian proselytizing. If she achieves nothing else, Ms. Ehrenreich shows that wherever there are people down on their luck, there will always be others ready to exploit their desperation and insecurity and take their cash, whether for themselves or on God's ostensible behalf. Shame on the lot of them. <br /> <br />BAIT AND SWITCH is modestly interesting as far as Ms. Ehrenreich is able to take her story. Her experiences with career coaches and the placement industry in general are amusing, if not exactly shocking news. However, her very failure to land a job, and her constant skittering from one networking meeting to another, gives her book a superficial feel. We never really come to know any of her coaches or consultants, nor do we get to know her fellow job seekers except in the most cursory ways. This lack of depth in the secondary characters of her story, coupled with her lack of job hunting success, prevents BAIT AND SWITCH from achieving the convincing immediacy of her previous book. The author never feels fully engaged in her task, more like a journalistic dabbler standing well removed from her subjects and wryly observing. We all know it's just an experiment, whatever the outcome. Had she truly set out to write about the middle class unemployed, following the career trajectories, job search efforts, and personal travails of a half-dozen searchers would have created a far more emotionally compelling story. <br /> <br />In the end, BAIT AND SWITCH lacks a raison d'etre. It is too removed from the workplace for a study of white collar America, too shallow and lacking in follow-up for a story of the truly desperate, middle-aged outplaced, and not nearly angry (or deep) enough for a critique of the shameless (and often self-serving, inane, and brainless) behavior of the employment counseling and support industry and the multitude of self-help books that offer answers and deliver nonsense. Ms. Ehrenreich then compounds the problem by asserting that her limited experience with a sampling of former white collar insiders now on the outside serves as an adequate base for generalizing about the world she herself was unable to enter. Her resulting conclusions not only ring false to anyone who has worked in the corporate world, but her recommendations project the unreal idealism of a high school sophomore. Why not just give the world a Coke and teach everyone to sing in perfect harmony?  <br /> <br />Ms. Ehrenreich is an engaging writer, and her cynical, deadeyed humor saves her book from irrelevance. Still, however, BAIT AND SWITCH seems too much an example of making lemonade when all you have is lemons, a sort of literary, semi-silk purse fashioned from a corporate sow's ear. That this book was even published may well be more testimony to her authorial reputation than to its content.	2005-09-22
US	37234590	R33WGI5MG4EJXF	0440241359	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Neither Fish Nor Fowl	Sometimes it's better to be lucky than good, and THE RULE OF FOUR has certainly been lucky. Floating in the unparalleled wake of THE DA VINCI CODE, THE RULE OF FOUR has flourished beyond its merits as readers have been hyped and hoped into finding a Dan Brown replay, a sort of DA VINCI CODE of books rather than paintings. What authors Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason deliver, however, is a flawed first novel written by two smart young guys whose writing inexperience shows up on nearly every page.  <br /> <br />Enough has been written already about the plot line, the search by two Princeton undergrads for some mysterious but ostensibly monumental secret buried amid riddles and codes within an ancient Renaissance text called the \\"Hypnerotomachia Poliphili.\\" The story cleverly ties together elements of Florentine art and architecture, humanist philosophy, and the religious fundamentalism of Savanarola, interleaved with fatal shootings, steam explosions, and fires. Had the authors simply focused on their history-based adventure story, the result might have been a serviceable action thriller. However, Caldwell and Thomason opted for several genres in one: boy comes of age and finally understands his father's obsessions, young man struggles to choose between love and career, career academics battle over fame and the specter of misspent lives, and haughty Princetonian social clubbers practice becoming snobbish adult socialites at the expense of their less privileged fellow students.  <br /> <br />The result is predictable, and the authors accomplish none of the above. At times, the story plods intolerably as Tom, the narrator, philosophizes on life, friendship, obsession, and his inability to bond with his (naturally, albeit unlikely) blond bombshell of a girlfriend. At other times, introspection and intellectualization are abandoned in favor of childish prurience (the authors seem peculiarly titillated by the college's Nude Olympics) and outlandish action sequences that make the Princeton campus seem like the University of Baghdad positioned over Osama bin Laden's tunnel network. In this academic milieu, professors and grad students lie, connive, cheat, steal, and even die on campus, living by the pen but dying by the bullet. Also in these authors' Princeton, no one dares to be ethnic: Tom Sullivan, Paul Harris, Preston Gilmore (Gil) Rankin, Charlie Freeman (a curiously metaphorical choice of names for the book's only black character), Richard Curry, Bill Stein, Vincent Taft, Katie Marchand, Parker Hassett, Veronica Terry, Lana McKnight, Donald Morgan, Jamie Ness, and on and on. Makes me thankful I never applied.   <br /> <br />For readers seeking a Ludlum-style action thriller, or even a distant echo of Dan Brown, THE RULE OF FOUR will probably seem slow and boring, too much talk, not enough action, and too little to show for it all at the end. For those who somehow expect a serious contemplation of academic life, devotion to scholarship, and the price (and occasional rewards) of obsession, the characters will feel wooden and hollow, full of false depth, and the action scenes will feel as improbable as a Spiderman comic book. Pretentious and overwrought lines like the closing, \\"My heart is a bird in a cage, ruffling its wings with the ache of expectation,\\" will sound like nothing more than precocious high school prose.  <br /> <br />THE RULE OF FOUR is a fish with feathers, a chicken with gills. Like all such carnival displays, it captures viewers' attention for a few moments, but most will walk away shaking their heads. Within minutes, whatever they saw will be forgotten, and life will move on to something more meaningful. This book is a passable read, and not without merit for its historical perspective, but it's hard not to think that Dan Brown deserves a 25% cut of the profits. Without its renowned predecessor to set the proverbial table, THE RULE OF FOUR would likely have passed unnoticed.	2005-09-15
US	37234590	R36HQTFJP2YFEB	0307262820	359898580	Incendiary	Books	5	74	77	N	N	A Brilliantly Blazing Book	In the world of post-9/11 literature, great attention has gone to Jonathan Safran Foer's EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE, Ian McEwan's SATURDAY, and Art Spigelman's IN THE SHADOW OF NO TOWERS. Now comes a first novel less pyrotechnic and histrionic than Foer's, less cold and distant than McEwan's, and less shallow and self-centered than Spigelman's, a book at once more graphically horrifying and touchingly, humanly real than any of them, and it seems to have hardly been noticed. Chris Cleave's INCENDIARY is an extraordinary work, a brilliant discourse on Western culture, class divisions, the meaning of family, and the meaning of freedom (or lack thereof) in an England (or an America) obsessively embroiled in a \\"war on terror.\\"  <br /> <br />Structurally, INCENDIARY takes the form of an extended, Dear Osama letter, written over four seasons by an anonymous, lower middle class housewife whose husband (a bomb squad member for the London police) and four-year-old son were killed in a suicide bombing at an Arsenal football match. At the very moment they were killed, she was engaged in flagrante delicto on her living room sofa with Jasper Black, a well-off social and professional climber who worked as a columnist for the Sunday Telegraph newspaper. Her lengthy epistle begins as a plea for Osama to stop the terrorism - to \\"stop making boy-shaped holes in the world\\" - but evolves as a retelling of her life's downward spiral following May Day, as Londoners come to call their soccer match version of 9/11. She becomes increasingly involved with Paul and his scheming newspaper columnist girlfriend Petra Sutherland, lands a file clerking job with her husband's former boss and anti-terrorism czar Terence Butcher, and ultimately learns a horrifying truth about May Day. The pace of events accelerates in the last fifty pages (the least effective part of this book) and climaxes with another terrorism scare involving the unnamed letter-writer, Jasper, and Petra.  <br /> <br />Notsurprisingly, INCENDIARY is a book about loss, but not just loss of a husband and a son. Cleave deals with the fallout of terrorism and manmade tragedy: loss of purpose and hope, loss of sanity, loss of principles, and loss of freedom. His heroine loses her identity and seeks to replace it by becoming Petra's upper class double, while at the same time she hallucinates her son's presence and sees bodies bursting into flame or dismembering every time her anxieties flare. INCENDIARY also deals harshly with issues of class - whose lives are worth protecting and whose are expendable - in ways that strikingly foreshadow the events surrounding Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans. Cleave even takes a veiled poke at Tony Blair and George Bush through Terence Butcher's lament, \\"It's like the powers that be are poking sticks into the wasps' nests and my job is to run around and stop the wasps stinging us. It's never going to happen. We've simply got to stop doing just a few of the things that make these people want to murder us.\\" <br /> <br />In Cleave's larger, post-May Day London, Muslims are summarily banished from working in hospitals, citizens must abide by a midnight curfew enforced by gun-toting soldiers, the Tower Bridge is closed, the radio is filled with Elton John's newest pop memorial song \\"England's Heart Is Bleeding\\" (\\"...that was going to be number 1 probably forever or at least until the sun and stars burned out like cheap lightbulbs and the universe ended for good and it couldn't come soon enough if you asked me but nobody did.\\"), and the city skies are filled with searchlight-wielding helicopters and hundreds of barrage balloons haplessly called the Shield of Hope. At once a haunting image and a biting slap at post-terrorism \\"memorials,\\" those barrage balloons are each decorated with the face of one of the 1,003 May Day dead, even as the sun and weather slowly reduce those images to ghostly shadows, as if London was now \\"defended by ghosts.\\"  <br /> <br />What makes INCENDIARY work, however, is not its plot but its voice. Cleave has created a proletarian, homemaking mom (\\"I am not paranoid I'm working-class there's a difference.\\") whose edgy life spent busily alphabetizing her shelves while her husband rushed to bomb disposals is shattered by eleven terrorist bombs in a football stadium. His heroine's voice feels surprisingly real, sometimes lost and despairing, other times cynical, and occasionally just desperately trying to understand Why? \\"Which London is it that Allah especially hates?...The SNEERING TOFFS London [or] the EVIL CRACK MUMS London I mean....I don't see how you can hate the whole of London unless you actually live here on less than 500 quid a week.\\" Along the way, Cleave creates a series of haunting, almost apocalyptic images of a transformed London, \\"with Tesco bags blowing down [the street] like the ghosts of value shopping\\" and \\"cables [from the barrage balloons] disappearing up into the clouds like the weather was bolted onto them.\\"  <br /> <br />Cleave's genius here is also in his ambiguity, in his refusal to reduce the \\"Osama versus the West\\" struggle to simple black and white. His Londoners are all deeply flawed sinners. INCENDIARY's heroine married at five months pregnant and is a shameless philanderer, her husband and Jasper drink to excess, Jasper succumbs to a massive cocaine habit, Terence cheats on his wife, and Petra is a soulless bitch in Pradas. Cleave makes us empathize with his heroine at the same time that he makes the terrorist attack seem oddly justifiable from a fundamentalist viewpoint. Alternately tragic, poignant, hilarious, and, where it concerns big media and big government, bitterly sarcastic, INCENDIARY is a deeply moving book that deserves at least the readership garnered by Foer and McEwan. I was hooked from the opening page of this book and could hardly put it down until I had finished. INCENDIARY barely alludes to 9/11, but it may well stand as the best (and most deeply human) work of literature to address that subject. I urge you to read this unforgettable book.  <br />	2005-09-07
US	37234590	RI94RXPKSOZLI	0679738959	860992598	The Age of Reason: A Novel	Books	2	15	48	N	N	We're French -- We Don't Have to Care (About Anything)	If there is any country in the world capable of producing tedious, equivocating fiction whose characters flagellate themselves over trivia, paralyze themselves with inane, existential debates, and generally agonize over their meaningless lives, France is that country. Add to this annoying stylistic tendency a career in philosophy, and you have the makings of a literary disaster on the order of Jean-Paul Sartre's THE AGE OF REASON. Amazingly, this book is the first of a trilogy - one can hardly imagine what treats follow this opening volume.   <br /> <br />The story takes place in Paris (naturally) over a two-day period in the summer of 1938, as the Spanish Civil War rages and Europe sits on the precipice of Hitler's war of conquest. The shadow of world war is undoubtedly intended to add meaning and import to the story, but only ends up with a Jew in 1938 referring to concentration camps. Matthieu Delarue, a professor perpetually short of funds has enjoyed a seven-year relationship with a woman of questionable repute named Marcelle who has unexpectedly become pregnant. Matthieu unilaterally decides that abortion is the only appropriate response and sets out on a quest of sorts to obtain the necessary funds. Revolving around Matthieu during these two days are Matthieu's sycophantic student Boris Serguine and his borderline paranoid schizophrenic sister Ivich, Boris's clinging, almost-over-the-hill dancer/girlfriend Lola, and Matthieu's long-time acquaintances Daniel and Brunet. They spend most of their time visiting one another, seeking cheap thrills (shoplifting, petty larceny, drowning cats, or cutting themselves just for the sensation), eating, drinking, dancing, taking drugs, loathing themselves and each other, and generally looking down on everyone else around them. As a group, the characters are thoroughly unlikable, either whiny narcissists or pompous didacts (or both), the best fate for whom would be the suicides they seem to dwell upon so endlessly. No wonderthe Nazis overran France in a matter of weeks. <br /> <br />The ostensible theme of THE AGE OF REASON is personal freedom, but as it plays out for Sartre, being free apparently means having no guiding principles, assuming no responsibility for one's actions, committing to nothing, and sacrificing nothing for another person or a greater cause than oneself. Presenting a group of characters who see themselves as free but are paralyzed by inaction and chained by their own self-doubts is rather an obvious form of irony. The only halfway likable character is Daniel, a homosexual who breaks sufficiently free of his chains to \\"come out\\" to Matthieu, expresses genuine concern for another human being's welfare, tries to guide Matthieu toward the morally correct course of action, and ultimately takes responsibility for another person's future well-being.  <br /> <br />Matthieu's life \\"hemmed him in...it had a vague and hesitant purpose, a kind of insistent futility, a smell of dust and violets...'I have led a toothless life,' he thought. A toothless life. I have never bitten into anything....What's to be done? Break the shell? That's easily said. Besides, what would remain? A little viscous bit of rubber, oozing through the dust and leaving a glistening trail behind it....And suddenly, above his besmirched body...there hovered a pure consciousness, a consciousness without ego, no more than a mere puff of warm air; there it hovered, in the semblance of a look, it viewed the shoddy bohemian, the petty bourgeois clamped into his comforts, the futile intellectual,...the listless dreamer immersed in his flaccid life, and the verdict of that consciousness was: `The fellow is a wash-out and deserves his fate.'\\"  <br /> <br />If you can stand the prospect of 400 pages of this and worse, then by all means, go ahead, but don't say I didn't warn you. Sartre's \\"explorations\\" of personal freedom take place within the psyches of an insufferable group of utterly unrealistic characters.By the end of the novel Mattieu claims he has truly \\"attained the age of reason,\\" and most readers will have reached a state of exasperation if they haven't completely lost their minds and turned suicidal.  <br /> <br />Having disgorged this diarrhetic stream of unremitting despair and despondency, it comes as little surprise that Sartre had earlier written a first novel fittingly titled NAUSEA. The big surprise is learning that he was chosen for the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1964; what WERE they thinking? Naturally, Sartre turned it down -- how truly French to disdain a Nobel Prize.  <br /> <br />I approached this book optimistically, on the assumption that a philosopher of Sartre's stature would have some interesting philosophical insights to render in a fictional form. Regretably, I find it impossible to offer any good reason to read THE AGE OF REASON. I'll take Malcolm Lowry's UNDER THE VOLCANO or Paul Bowles any time over this. One star for the story, a second star in recognition of Sartre's intellectual reputation and his forwardness in 1947 to write frankly about abortions, prostitution, homosexuality, and drugs (even as he was horribly stereotyping blacks and Jews - hey, nobody's perfect). <br /> <br />	2005-08-30
US	37234590	R3BEHIY0U2JHU5	0714531006	139248898	Peacock Cries	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Good Story Ruined by Simply Dreadful Translation	Hong Ying's most recent novel, PEACOCK CRIES AT THE THREE GORGES, centers around Liu, a successful bioengineering researcher in Beijing who returns to her home county of Liang where her husband, Li, is the project manager for the infamous Three Gorges Dam. Counterposed against their highly educated professional lives are those of the townspeople, undereducated and barely surviving the vicissitudes of life and the complications of resettlement due to the expected rise in the water level of the Yangtze River when the dam is finished. Liu meets her mother's former best friend, Auntie Chen, and Chen's son, Yueming, who was born almost simultaneously with Liu herself. Over the course of just a few days, Liu learns the truth about her family heritage and how she benefited from her father's ruthless political opportunism. She learns as well how similar her husband Li is to her father, and she resolves her own dissatisfactions with life in a swirl of Buddhist mysticism and reincarnation that contrast sharply with her scientific training and her husband's ultrarational engineering background.     PEACOCK CRIES may well be a masterly work in Chinese. Regretably, the translation provided for Marion Boyars by Mark Smith and Henry Zhao, and the associated editing, fail at a simply astonishing level of ineptitude. These two individuals have managed single-handedly to reduce Ms. Hong's writing to wordy and badly written prose that suffers by comparison to the contents of most high school literary annuals. Having previously read Ms. Hong's SUMMER OF BETRAYAL and DAUGHTER OF THE RIVER, I feel confident the problem lies elsewhere than with the author. Everyone involved in publishing this dreadful English edition owes Ms. Hong a profound apology, after which ritual hari-kari might be an appropriate penitence for such a shameful performance.     Lest these criticisms seem exaggerated, consider the following few excerpts and examples from among the hundreds I could have chosen (CAPS mine):     -- On one side [of the main street] was a large and well-designed new park THAT WAS full of greenery. One [sic] the other side was A SERIES OF TALL, SHINY buildings...  -- She...found the humidity OF THE AIR...particularly soporific.  -- ...she'd been working in the fields since childhood SO SHE HAD GROWN UP TO BE VERY STRONG.   -- It had suddenly begun to POUR WITH RAIN...  -- IT WAS AS THOUGH IT WERE pouring out of a tap.  -- Maybe he was being so cautious BECAUSE HE WAS SO ANXIOUS BY THE FACT THAT Liu was from Beijing.  -- ...there was a quick PITTER-PATTER SOUND continually BATTERING against the glass OF THE WINDOW. [Pitter-patters batter a window?]  -- ...she felt an impulse to LOOK round....but no one was LOOKING in her direction. They...LOOKED like businessmen...impressive-LOOKING people....She felt very unremarkable-LOOKING...she didn't know how to make herself LOOK as good as they did. [all in just one paragraph!]    Beyond the horrifyingly weak prose lies an equally appalling deficiency in editing. Again, consider a few examples:     -- They...looked like businessmen or technical ENGINEER...  -- ...she couldn't BARE anything with a pattern on it.   -- There was LIGHTENING and heavy thunder...  -- ...ten different parts of his body had been wounded, but HAD never had the wound been very serious...  -- As it turned IT out it was lucky...  -- Early the next day...she was AWOKEN by a terrible din...  -- He...stroked her head gently, so different from the COURSE gruff old veteran she was used to.  -- ...HALF WAY up the mountain.  -- ...a small hole was cut in chest of each bear...  -- ...he would never LOOSE his temper...  -- ...penury forced her become a courtesan.  -- ...beyond the Hall of SHAKYAMUNI... [should be Sakyamuni]  -- She walked TOWARDS the bed...    Strunk & White's THE ELEMENTS OF STYLE is clearly not enough here. Better that Messrs. Smith and Zhao should just stop doing translations altogether.    Despite the audaciously poor rendition of Hong Ying's work by Messrs. Smith and Zhao, the strength of her writing still manages to break through. Her characters are memorable and her storytelling is graphic, at times gripping or sympathetic, occasionally humorous (as when Liu meets a Hong Kong businessman who is prepared to invest $200 million with her if she can help him clone rhinoceroses for the aphrodisiac properties of their horns). Readers interested in today's China and the bitter fruits of modernity resulting from massive infrastructure projects imposed on the lives of helpless peasants will be as fascinated by the story in PEACOCK CRIES AT THE THREE GORGES as they will be appalled by the poor quality of the translation. Four stars to the author, zero to her hapless translators.	2005-08-10
US	37234590	R29LUAYX24RG54	0679750533	347053634	The Elephant Vanishes: Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Murakami Captivates with a Literary "Sounds of Silence"	In the seventeen short stories of THE ELEPHANT VANISHES, Haruki Murakami uses the landscape of postmodern Japan to draw darkly universal portraits of solitude, the transience of memory, rootless alienation, and loss. From lost cats and vanished elephants (and their keepers) to loss of love, hope, purpose, and memory, these stories depict a bleak world of people whose connections, even at their best, are hopelessly distant and fraught with failures of understanding. In Murakami's world, we are each doomed to a life of loneliness, a life where we never truly know those closest to us, nor they us. We meet the \\"100% perfect girl\\" only to lose the memory to illness, we write rambling love letters to people we've never met, we mow strangers' lawns for the self-satisfying removal from close contact with others, we answer sexually suggestive phone calls from strangers who seem to know us intimately, and we tell our darkest secrets to people whom we barely know.     The stories in THE ELEPHANT VANISHES range widely over the modern urban landscape. Some depict sudden upheavals arising from seemingly trivial causes: a woman buying a pair of lederhosen in Germany for her husband abruptly decides she never wants to see him again, and a young schoolboy who punches an obnoxious teacher's pet suffers his victim's painful revenge only to realize the nature of that boy's social monstrousness. Other stories interject the fantastical or surreal into mundane lives: a woman becomes the love object of a little green monster only to become a far bigger monster herself; a man is visited by mysterious, proportionately reduced TV People who install a television in his house without a word, and without hooking it to an antenna; and a man who works in an elephant manufacturing plant (because Nature takes far too long to produce one elephant) meets a dancing dwarf in his dreams who becomes far too real.     Relationships form the dominant theme of THE ELEPHANT VANISHES: brother and sister, husband and wife, friends, work associates, neighbors, fellow students, customers, boyfriends and girlfriends. Most are strained, some are impossibly distant, others fail before our eyes. Obsessions like barn burning are transferred more easily than love is. Curiously, the one halfway wholesome relationship in the book exists between the hungry couple who decide to rob a McDonald's late one night for 30 Big Macs. \\"We're stealing bread, nothing else,\\" the wife explains to the shocked workers. \\"There weren't any bakeries open.\\" Sated from their haul, the husband relaxed in their car, parked in an empty parking lot in the dead of night, and \\"closed my eyes, waiting for the rising tide to carry me where I belonged.\\" For nearly all the remaining characters in the sixteen other stories, the operative phrase comes from a young Chinese girl: \\"This was never any place I was meant to be.\\"     The title story, \\"The Elephant Vanishes,\\" closes the short story collection with a striking allegorical tale of Japan's own \\"elephant in the room,\\" its institutional failure to confront the country's role and behavior in World War II. A bankrupt zoo closes and sells off all its animals except an aged elephant that the town ultimately (despite political opposition) agrees to maintain until its natural death. The elephant's equally ancient keeper draws small performances from his elephant, but they are just minor entertainments. Children visit the elephant as a quaint curiosity and draw pictures of it for their art class. One night, the elephant and keeper mysteriously vanish, Houdini-like, without a trace. Later, the narrator meets a magazine writer in whom he might be romantically interested and they discuss the importance (or irrelevance) of unity in the context of \\"kit-chin\\" design (the Western pressure to use the English version of the word). Finally, over drinks, he tells her his version of the vanishing elephant story - as the last person to see the elephant and keeper, he believes theymay simply have shrunk until they disappeared. To the female writer, it's hardly more meaningful than the family cat that disappeared when she was a girl. He never sees her again. \\"The elephant and keeper have vanished completely. They will never be coming back.\\" It is not the death of memory, simply its willful disappearance.    Alternately bizarre, amusing, introspective, shocking, and sad, THE ELEPHANT VANISHES is a short story collection whose powerful threads strengthen the more one reads and reflects. His characters, like those in Simon & Garfunkel's acclaimed song, are \\"people talking without speaking, people hearing without listening, people writing songs that voices never shared....\\" Haruki Murakami portrays our disaffected postmodern world as a place no one was ever meant to be.	2005-08-06
US	37234590	R1FZ39X79HTA1K	037550477X	280343045	The Coming Collapse of China	Books	2	199	239	N	Y	Doom and Gloom Sell (Again)	Remember the names? THE  WARNING: THE COMING GREAT CRASH IN THE STOCK MARKET, Y2K - IT'S ALREADY TOO LATE, CONQUER THE CRASH, THE COMING CRASH IN THE HOUSING MARKET, PATRIOTS: SURVIVING THE COMING CRASH, THE COMING COLLAPSE OF THE DOLLAR AND HOW TO PROFIT FROM IT, and, of course, the greatest (and silliest) doomsday collection of all time, THE LEFT BEHIND SERIES. Doom will always have its day, Chicken Littles will watch and read and fret, authors and publishers will collect their take, and the unfilled prophecies of ruin will soon be forgotten in the wake of a newer batch. And thus it is with Gordon Chang's THE COMING COLLAPSE OF CHINA.<br /><br />Published in 2001, Chang argues that China's deeply entrenched and long-standing economic difficulties, the Communist Pary's intransigence and desperate efforts at self-preservation, and the country's coming accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) will combine to create the necessary conditions for revolution and overthrow. All that will be needed will be the right spark and the emergence of the right leader to take advantage. The thesis is, of course, plausible enough, but what doomsday prophecy doesn't have its elements of plausibility? Marshal enough arguments on one side of any issue and ignore the counterbalancing factors, and any situation can start looking like an imminent crisis.<br /><br />This type of one-sided presentation is, unfortunately, precisely what Mr. Chang gives us. He is clearly knowledgeable about China, and he certainly identifies most of the country's major problems: bankrupt State-owned enterprises (SOE's), technically insolvent banks with huge quantities of non-performing loans, a ruling party lacking in ideas and the political will to change, a government addicted to creeping incrementalism out of fear of losing control, stifling of private enterprise and innovation, declining quality of life for millions of peasants, and the people's own access to information, and to each other, via theInternet. Yet at the same time, he either ignores or diminishes the importance of foreign investment capital, building of thousands of new factories, a seemingly inexhaustible pool of cheap and willing labor, the Chinese people's own rampant entrepreneurialism, and their enormous drive for material goods and a better life.<br /><br />Chang's writing style tends toward the dry and overly repetitive, as if saying something often enough will make it so. His arguments are often perceptive, yet at the same time they sound heavily opinionated, lacking in substantive supporting detail or statistics. His writing is best when he humanizes it, telling us stories of individual Chinese people - more of this would have been better. `<br /><br />Chang's book is also littered with odd inaccuracies and unfairly negative interpretations that left me questioning the merits of his bigger arguments. On the lesser side, for example, he incorrectly identifies pop singer A Mei (Zhang Huimei) as \\"Ah Mei\\" and describes internationally renowned architect I.M. Pei as born in Guangzhou. Pei himself says (in a June, 2004 interview in Archtectural Record) that he was born in Suzhou. Chang twice describes the White Swan Hotel in Guangzhou as \\"aging\\" and once as \\"dingy\\" - it is no such thing (I was there in 2002, 2003, and 2004). He also claims the Chinese government makes Westerners stay if they are adopting Chinese babies from Guangzhou - wrong on both counts. The babies come from all over China, and the adoptive parents stay at the White Swan because it is a five minute walk from the American Consulate where they will pick up their infants' American travel visas. More disturbing, he disparages Western companies' first mover advantage as nonexistent while ignoring the experiences of KFC, Coke, Pepsi, Nike, Polo, Budweiser, P&G's Crest and Pampers brands, Nestle's, and VW. Chang inappropriately equates China's 40% national savings rate as a vote of no confidence in the government, ignoring the lessons of decades if not centuries of historical experience and upheavals as well as cultural tradition (such as parents saving to buy a home for their son and his new bride). He also manages to describe Internet usage in China as \\"hobbled\\" even as it grew from October 1997 to December 2003 at a compound rate of over 100% per year!<br /><br />THE COMING COLLAPSE OF CHINA is an informative book for those not familiar with China, as it offers good insight into the country's economic, political, and social systems and their shortcomings. The danger is that the reader will come away with a profoundly negative and pessimistic view of China beyond what the country warrants. Imagine the roles being reversed, with Chinese people reading about America's negatives (rabid political polarization, manufacturing job loss, staggering corporate frauds and bankruptcies,decaying infrastructure, broken health care system, low-functioning educational system, massive government budget deficits and trade imbalances, terrorism, gun crimes, religious fundamentalism), and you see the problem.	2005-07-28
US	37234590	R36HN97ALO0PIE	0451529294	47170097	It Can't Happen Here (Signet Classics)	Books	4	42	46	N	N	Eerie Foreshadowing of Present-Day American Politics	Given that Sinclair Lewis published this book in 1935, it is difficult to imagine that he wasn't influenced by the little known, aborted attempt by some of America's leading industrialists to promote a military coup in 1934, an attempt to oust control of the U.S. Government from FDR that may only have been prevented by the democratic integrity of General Smedley Butler. Regardless, Lewis penned his own version of a corporate/Fascist takeover that begins with demagogic populism and ends with armed militia, State control of the media, racism, and eventually, concentration camps and executions.<br /><br />IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE is an extraordinary book, but not for its literary merit. On that score, the book is provincial and horribly dated. Lewis's writing style features convoluted run-ons and his dialog is often laughable. The book's plot grows increasingly over-the-top as the story progresses (including two assassinations in the White House, no less), the characters are absurdly stereotyped, personal relationships are superficial at best, and the characters' names (Macgoblin, Itchitt, Cowlick, Coon, Reek, Skittle, Reverend Paul Peter Prang, Perley Beecroft, Senator Porkwood, and an avid pro-Communist with the inevitable first name, Karl) hearken back to the days of Nathaniel Hawthorne, medieval morality plays, and THE CANTERBURY TALES. For reasons I couldn't fathom, Lewis also seemed to have an unhealthy obsession with Upton Sinclair.<br /><br />So why read IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE? Divide the book into two elements, the setup and the resolution. The resolution is heavy-handed, more a prediction of Nazi Germany or Stalinist Russia than any likely events in the United States. By contrast, the setup is brilliant, and remarkably prescient of today's political environment. Consider just a few aspects of the novel:<br /><br />-- A President lacking in intellectual capacity but blessed with a Zelig-like ability to appear as a regular guy and everyone's drinking buddy, \\"...almost illiterate, a public liar easily detected, and in his `ideas' almost idiotic...his celebrated humor the sly cynicism of a country store...[who would] jab his crowds with facts and figures - figures and facts that were inescapable even when, as often happened, they were entirely incorrect.\\"<br /><br />-- A mysterious Presidential advisor cum puppet master, a wizard at politics and P.R. who \\"scientifically\\" builds up his candidate over seven years and then engineers the President's populist campaign, one that includes \\"tax reform\\" through the promise of painless, debt free grants of $5,000 to every American family.<br /><br />-- A holier-than-thou Presidential advisor who engages in homosexual orgies.<br /><br />-- A blatantly pro-Christian and anti-feminist Administration that opposes the teaching of evolution.<br /><br />-- A Presidential Administration dominated by Big Business and run in the name of, and for the benefit of, Big Business.<br /><br />-- An evangelical Christian radio minister who commands a virtual army of followers called the League of Forgotten Men.<br /><br />-- An administration whose first objective is to elevate the power of the Executive by simultaneously weakening the role of Congress and all but dismissing the Supreme Court.<br /><br />-- An administration that maintains complete control over information flow, asserts editorial control over the mass media, issues false and misleading pronouncements, suppresses independent reporting, and doctors its own statistics.<br /><br />-- A mass exodus of Americans to Canada, evolving eventually into a white Underground Railroad when America's borders are sealed.<br /><br />-- A President surrounded by like-minded yes men, isolated by his staff from the truth, and increasingly removed from contact with ordinary citizens.<br /><br />-- A Presidential Administration that concocts a phony war with Mexico to create an external bogeyman and distract the citizenry from the country's true problems.<br /><br />IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE is indeed happening here, at least in part. This book paints a deeply troubling scenario that makes it well worth reading despite its literary shortcomings. Sinclair Lewis was on the right track, just seventy years ahead of his time. Read it, and pray that the more outlandish parts of this story don't come true as well.the country's true problems.  <br /> <br />IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE is indeed happening here, at least in part. This book paints a deeply troubling scenario that makes it well worth reading despite its literary shortcomings. Sinclair Lewis was on the right track, just seventy years ahead of his time. Read it, and pray that the more outlandish parts of this story don't come true as well. <br /> <br />	2005-07-22
US	37234590	R19975CTO6O9MX	1400033764	398634354	The Swallows of Kabul	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Tragic Novel of Life in Afghanistan Under the Taliban	Where Khalid Hosseini's THE KITE RUNNER reads like \\"Afghanistan lite,\\" a tale of privileged, upper class life lost, Yasmina Khadra's THE SWALLOWS OF KABUL wallows in the street dust, beggar children, and Taliban whips of Kabul. Khadra's tale is terrifying in its immediacy, creating an atmosphere in which every word and action must be chosen carefully, where being in the wrong place at the wrong time can lead to anything from two hours' imprisonment in a mosque listening to a raving mullah to a beating or even death. The first three pages set the tone magnificently, depicting a near hell on earth.  <br /> <br />THE SWALLOWS OF KABUL intertwines the stories of two married couples whose lives cross randomly, first in small ways and then in hugely fateful ways. Atiq Shaukat is a taciturn war survivor (versus the Soviets) turned jailer for prisoners being held pending public execution. His wife of twenty years, Musarrat, was the nurse who saved him from his wounds and helped him recover. She has always known that Atiq married her out of a sense of obligation, and now she is suffering from a fatal degenerative disease. Another young couple, Mohsen Ramat and his beautiful wife Zunaira, are well-educated, a handsome and ideal match who have lost their professional jobs and comfortable lives to the ravages of war and the worse ravages of religious fundamentalism. They struggle to maintain their identities and sense of purpose in the face of irrational and capricious Taliban zealotry.  <br /> <br />Khadra follows Stendahl's dictum of character development: put them in difficult situations and then give them brains so they can suffer. And suffer his four main characters do, terribly, each in his own way. Atiq feels nothing for anyone, having hardened himself to stone in order to deal with the chaos around him and his role in the feeding frenzy of the Taliban's public executions. He wanders the streets like a ghost, devoid of feelings and resenting his helplessness. His wife Musarrat suffers the painful physical debilitations of her disease along with her inability to help her husband. Mohsen shares Atiq's sense of purposelessness, compounded by the recognition of how close he exists to depravity when he joins an unknown woman's public stoning and believes he actually hit her in the head. Finally, Mohsen's wife Zunaira suffers the loss of her professional identity and selfhood, having to muzzle her former activism for women's rights behind the walls of her home and the veil of a burqa.  <br /> <br />That Yasmina Khadra is a woman's pen name adopted by an Algerian man, Mohammed Moulessehoul, is fitting. Although THE SWALLOWS OF KABUL focuses on its male characters (apropos of a Taliban society), it is the women Musarrat and Zunaira who provide the emotional heart and dramatic punch in this story. They suffer nobly and seek active resolutions to their plights while their respective husbands seem only to wallow in their own misery.  <br /> <br />The author surrounds his four main characters with an intriguing supporting cast, from the ocean-seeking old man Nazeesh to Atiq's friend Mirza Shah to the ambitious Qassim Abdul Jabbar, who hopes to leverage his skills in organizing public executions into a position as head of the largest prison in Kabul. Khadra also creates a cleverly twisting plot in which the fates of Atiq, Musarrat, Mohsen, and Zunaira converge on a single event. The climax is both tragic and elevating, with an unsolved mystery to leave readers speculating what happens after the story ends. All in all, THE SWALLOWS OF KABUL is a gripping and horrifying story of life under the fanatical whip of religious fundamentalism, a tale of lost hope and lost souls succumbing to the irrational forces surrounding them. Anyone interested in learning about life under the Taliban will shudder at the knowledge they gain from this book. <br />	2005-07-10
US	37234590	R1SFYJQBL1UQXI	1400042593	373148298	Mr. Muo's Travelling Couch	Books	5	43	43	N	N	A Chinese Quixote with Freud as His Travel Companion	Imagine Don Quixote as a bookish, bespectacled, and hilariously nave Chinese man named Muo, recently returned to his native country from studying in France and bent on delivering the wonders of psychoanalysis to his countrymen. Dai Sijie has created just such a character in MR. MUO'S TRAVELLING COUCH, his latest work following the surprising success of his first novel, BALZAC AND THE LITTLE CHINESE SEAMSTRESS. MR. MUO is a classic picaresque tale, following its hapless hero in his misadventures (psychoanalytic, sexual, and otherwise) as he travels through Sichuan and Yunnan Provinces in southwestern China. The results are alternately comical, touching, and even tragic, and never without touches of biting satire about imperious officials, greedy and superstitious citizens, and the chaotic impact of Westernization on people's lives and dreams. <br /> <br />If Mr. Muo is Dai Sijie's Quixote, then his immaculate Dulcinea is a 36-year-old woman he knew from university, improbably named Volcano of the Old Moon. Muo's quest is to secure his beloved's release from a prison in Chengdu where she is being held for having given photographs of police brutality to the Western press. Our hero's ardor is made all the more quixotic by its platonic one-sidedness - Mr. Muo's idealized love is boundless, while the object of his affections has done little more than tolerate him, even mocking his behavior in public. They have shared between them little more than a single kiss, not necessarily mutually sought, in a smoke-filled professor's office. Volcano of the Old Moon's fate is controlled by the lascivious and hedonistic Judge Di Jiangui, a former marksman and military executioner who celebrated his sanctioned killings with bowls of pig's blood soup. Judge Di agrees to assist Muo in getting Volcano's release. The price, however, is not money but an evening's sexual congress with a virgin, to be supplied by Mr. Muo. <br /> <br />A virgin himself, Muo sets out to find a willing virgin for the old judge. Bicycles, trains, and a Blue Arrow truck are his Rosinantes, and Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan are his invisible but ever-present Sancho Panzas. Muo experiences a series of humorous escapades that involve interpreting people's dreams for a fee (twenty yuan, but often reduced to one or even none in the interest of gaining referrals), a marauding band of mountain highway robbers, a mysterious old man whose job in a panda preserve is to retrieve the daily feces of the single remaining panda for government monitoring, a young virgin named Little Road, and a female Embalmer (a forty-year-old virgin whose husband jumped to his death on their wedding night because he was a homosexual). <br /> <br />Throughout, Mr. Muo is Quixote with an Inspector Clouseau touch, fumbling every opportunity and watching his every effort collapse or backfire. His attempt to pair the Embalmer with Judge Di nearly ends with the Judge's death, and another attempt to supply the required virgin angers the Judge even further. Muo's own attempts at love are so miserable, he mistakes a broom handle under a train seat for the slender ankle of his desired. Even as the story ends, Muo meets yet another potential virgin for his never-ending quest. <br /> <br />Dai Sijie's story is at its satirical best when Muo attempts to assert his Westernized intellect, gained in France, over a hopelessly non-accommodating Chinese populous. His vaunted psychoanalysis techniques, and Freud's INTERPRETATION OF DREAMS, are reduced to mere fortune-telling tools. His prized command of French becomes nothing more than tonal music to peasants' ears. So convinced is he that the prison authorities cannot censor a letter written in French, Muo writes a lengthy letter to Volcano of the Old Moon in his adopted second language knowing full well that she cannot understand a word he has written. On one occasion, when Muo believes he might be going crazy, he tests his sanity by recalling French vocabulary; anothertime, he checks for amnesia by remembering the years of Freud's birth and death. In the end, ironically, it is Muo's put-on Frenchness that saves him from a band of black-caped robbers in the mountains of Yunnan. <br /> <br />MR. MUO'S TRAVELLING COUCH is a gem of a short novel, a funny and touching story of a bumbling intellectual, well schooled in Freud's theories of sexuality but without experience of his own, trying to meld East with West. As Dai Sijie traces the exploits of his lovable psychoanalyst Muo, he draws wonderfully memorable portraits of the still bitter and backward lives of people deep in western China, a place where progress is measured by the inflated price Muo imagines his parents paying to compensate the State for the bullet to be used in his own execution. A few hours spent on Mr. Muo's traveling couch are indeed a thoroughly enjoyable experience.  <br /> <br />	2005-07-07
US	37234590	R1L25YSL2J3KK8	038551428X	970964974	The Traveler (Fourth Realm Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Engaging Summer Sci-Fi, but a Missed Opportunity as Well	In her New York Times review of THE TRAVELER, Janet Maslin describes the book as a \\"cyber-`1984.'\\" Indeed, John Twelve Hawks' first novel could perhaps have accomplished that lofty vision had he scaled down the fantasy elements and eschewed the sci-fi grab bag that comes with superintelligent beings from another dimension. His story line centers around a truly chilling information-based police state, a virtual panopticon propelled into legitimacy by a fearmongering government that uses vague threats of terrorist danger to push through stronger and stronger versions of the Patriot Act (and the even more Orwellian sounding Freedom from Fear Act). In fact, Mr Twelve Hawks' prose is most searing when he places his characters at the mercy of a technologically believable, not-so-distant version of a Total Information Awareness Program that effectively monitors every citizen in the United States.     Rather than limn his story from the realistic dangers of total information control and some not-so-farfetched extensions of the Patriot Act, however, the author elected to carry his story into the realms of science fiction fantasy. Instead of Huxley or Orwell or even Upton Sinclair's IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE, THE TRAVELER becomes a bizarre mixture of THE DA VINCI CODE and STARGATE. The great leaders and philosophers, history's movers and shakers, are hypothesized to have been Travelers, individuals whose \\"Light\\" could leave their bodies at will and travel to other realms, or dimensions, where they garnered different \\"perspectives\\" on the plight of mortal man. Thus, Jesus was perhaps a Traveler and Peter was perhaps a failed Harlequin (he cut off a soldier's ear while protecting Jesus). Guarding these blessed Travelers over the ages have been Harlequins, a group of cold-blooded killing machines sworn to protect their charges from the fiendish depradations of yet another group called the Tabula, or the Brethren. It is the Brethren who represent the forces of reaction, who desire order and control over society at the expense of true freedom. As if creating another variant of THE DA VINCI CODE wasn't enough, Mr. Twelve Hawks decided to go one better by introducing unseen, superintelligent aliens from another dimension who are apparently willing to barter quantum computing and biological engineering technology in return for a chance to enter our dimension, the so-called Fourth Realm.     Regretably, all of this sci-fi flotsam impinges on what is otherwise a fairly serviceable story with some interesting characters. The Harlequin Maya, daughter of a Harlequin father, is conflicted by a life she never chose and a desire to live a normal life of love and family. The Corrigan brothers, Michael and Gabriel (aren't the Archangel names a bit too facile?), are prospective Travelers who take wildly different paths to discover the truth about themselves and their missing Traveler father, Matthew. The martial arts trainer Hollis and his friend Vicki (from Victory over Sin) both come across as credible characters seeking to find their true selves.     When Mr. Twelve Hawks turns these characters, and others, loose in a world full of video surveillance cameras, global positioning systems, credit card and medical records databases, and high-tech spying equipment, his story is fast-paced, believable, and downright scary. The \\"off the grid\\" part of Mr. Twelve Hawks seems to be screaming out the dangers of rampant information technology put into government service for the ostensible protection of the populace from terrorism but used in actuality as a weapon of control, vaguely reminiscent of \\"The Prisoner\\" television series. This aspect of THE TRAVELER is a chilling portrait of an America in which future Patriot Acts have redefined patriotism as behaving like obedient sheep under the watchful gaze of governmental shepherds. Had Mr. Twelve Hawks stopped there, he might have realized Ms. Maslin's cyber-1984 goal. As it stands, he has instead written a cultural synthesis of a dozen books and movies of the last decade, an entertaining fantasy that will ultimately nestle into bookstore shelves alongside hundreds of other science fiction novels. While THE TRAVELER is not the five-star book it might have been, it is a fast-paced story that provides several hours of enjoyable summer reading. Three stars for an engaging story and an excellent fictional adaptation of the ideas in Robert O'Harrow's NO PLACE TO HIDE.	2005-07-02
US	37234590	R2WV2E1UY77DOE	076791757X	765552687	Crossworld: One Man's Journey into America's Crossword Obsession	Books	3	43	44	N	N	Far Less Interesting Than It Should Have Been	It seems that the wonderfully touching and insightful National Spelling Bee documentary SPELLBOUND has opened the floodgates for literary variants: COUNTDOWN (about young math whizzes), WORD FREAKS (about Scrabble), and Marc Romano's CROSSWORLD (about crossword puzzling). Exploring these peculiar talents and (occasionally) obsessions, and the personalities of those who partake of them, is a meritorious notion, prospectively opening windows into small but almost savant-like niches of human behavior. One might pick up any of these books expecting to be introduced to some of the people who exhibit these extraordinary talents. In the case of CROSSWORLD, however, Romano tells us far more about himself than we care to know and far less than we want to know about the world's best cruciverbalists, or crossword puzzle solvers.     CROSSWORLD centers on author Romano's first-time participation in March, 2004 in the annual American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, held every year in Stamford, CT. Along with the requisite history lesson in crosswording and discussion about the differences between American style crosswords and British style cryptics, the author describes how he prepared himself as a contestant. Romano is fairly successful at the event itself, but he focuses far more on the people who construct and edit puzzles (Eugene Maleska, Will Shortz, Brendan Quigley, Michael Shteyman) than on the collection of people who bothered traveling to Stamford and giving up an entire weekend to solve crosswords against the clock and each other. We learn something about Shortz and Quigley, but that's about as far as Romano takes us. As for the 500-odd participants in the contest, the author blithely assures us that they are mostly introverts, mostly white, scrupulously honest, unhealthily consumed by puzzling, and just all-around nice people. As human insights go, these are remarkably trite. Romano apparently decided he was far more interesting than anyone else at the contest. We learnabout his dating habits, his drinking habits, his use of Ativan to calm himself into a semi-hallucinatory state, and an off-base story about how his puzzling skills helped him acquire \\"a new bedmate.\\" What should have been a fascinating account of crosswording aficionados ends up being mostly the author's stargazing at New York Times puzzle editor Will Shortz and navel-gazing over his own skills.    One other aspect of CROSSWORLD bears comment: Romano writes like someone with ADD. Every page is filled with three or four parenthetical asides, some of them full paragraph length, that are both distracting and annoying. Any writer who needs twin parentheses that often either lacks focus or is simply forcing too much extraneous information into the text. Additionally, the author seems so unsure of his own effectiveness as a writer, he constantly places explicit reminders of things he said earlier in his story. He also presents a weakly speculative, pop evolutionary psychology analysis of puzzling and problem solving that involves cavemen, tigers, and being able to spot a tiger lurking at \\"the sun-dappled forest edge.\\"     Curiously, for a subject matter as precise and nit-picking as crosswords, Romano seems a bit loose with his facts. He attributes the notion of England and America being two nations divided by a common language to Winston Churchill rather than either Oscar Wilde or George Bernard Shaw (both of whom predated Churchill on this notion, Wilde by 50 years). He also mentions taking the #5 line in New York to Canal Street (New Yorkers know that only the #6 IRT line stops at Chinatown) and comments that Susan Lucci failed \\"something like a dozen times\\" to win a daytime Emmy (the actual number was eighteen before she finally won in 1999).      By the end of CROSSWORLD, Romano has clearly gotten carried away with his subject matter, trying to inflate it into much more than it is. If only we taught crosswording to university students, he argues, the world would have no more wars. \\"The more your mind is filled with real facts about the real world,...the less room there will be in your heart for hatred.\\" He obviously ignored Brendan Quigley's admonition earlier in the book: \\"...you're talking about crossword puzzles. It's really not that complicated. They're just games.\\" About the kindest thing one can say about CROSSWORLD is that it manages to be modestly interesting despite its author's persistent intrusions into his own material.	2005-06-29
US	37234590	R1YDALGG06EBEF	0151011400	906795518	The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A Somewhat Contrarian View	Fans of Umberto Eco will undoubtedly find joy and wonder in THE MYSTERIOUS FLAME OF QUEEN LOANA, but others may be less than enthralled by his latest book. I admit to not having read any of Eco's earlier books, having perhaps been put off by the hoopla over THE NAME OF THE ROSE. I picked up QUEEN LOANA on a whim, intrigued by Eco's use of 1930's vintage photographs and cartoon images so soon after Jonathan Safran Foer's similar (and critically much maligned) use of photos in EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE.  <br /> <br />QUEEN LOANA combines two classic \\"search\\" themes into a single story line: personal identity and idealized \\"true\\" love. Eco's approach is unique. His main character, Giambattista Boldoni (known by his family and friends as Yambo) awakens in a stroke-induced fog, strangely attached to prose and poems about fog that he believes he has collected throughout his life. He suffers from a peculiar amnesia in which he can remember almost verbatim everything he has ever read, but nothing he has personally experienced. His name, his wife and children and grandchildren, his past lovers, his childhood - all are gone from his direct recall. He has to relearn who and what he is and what he has done.  <br /> <br />With his wife's consent, he visits his family's country home, Solara, where he both grew up and also survived Mussolini and World War II as they raged through the Italy of his boyhood. It is in Solara (sol, or sun, cutting through Yambo's amnesiac fog?) that he hopes to piece together his pre-stroke life from his grandfather's books, his childhood notebooks, and whatever toys, magazines, and records he can find in that old house. For the most part, Yambo's quest is a failure, yet events conspire to open more doors into his past even as he loses control over his own life. We slowly learn who Yambo is and why certain words and objects resonate emotionally for him despite his failed memory, and we come to know the story of his mysterious flame, his unattainable first love. Yet we are never sure if what we know is true, since memory is selective even in non-amnesiacs, creating its own version of the past for each of us. Eco leaves us to wonder if we know the real Yambo, or just the one Yambo wants, or wants us, to believe he is. <br /> <br />The plot device of failed memory, of recovering one's amnesia-afflicted identity, is rich in metaphorical promise and plot potential. In QUEEN LOANA, however, we are asked to accept that an otherwise intelligent stroke victim, an antiquarian book dealer by trade, would rely almost exclusively on old books and music to learn who he is rather than draw upon friends, family, and business associates. Of course, such a presumption opens the floodgates for Eco to indulge in the cultural detritus of 1930's and 1940's Italy, as well as Europe and the United States to lesser extents. The resulting discourses on child literature, comic books and pop culture from that period begin as interesting but gradually send the story into a dramatic tailspin. The fact that virtually no other character beside Yambo has a presence, and that Yambo himself is drawn as singularly cold and socially distant, makes the story feel slow and rambling (although that is presumably consistent with Yambo's own experience trying to recreate his own life's story). Not only did I not identify with Eco's main character, I found him dry and shriveled, like an Italian olive left in the hot sun. His preoccupation with books and literary images to the exclusion of human relationships other than those he remembers, or perhaps only imagines, makes it difficult for the reader to sympathize with his plight or care deeply about his fate.  <br /> <br />As I read THE MYSTERIOUS FLAME OF QUEEN LOANA, I repeatedly thought of Christopher Nolan's movie MEMENTO, a fascinating murder mystery seen through the eyes of a man who retains no short term memory. QUEEN LOANA suffers for the comparison. The plot drags, turns surprisingly predictable in places (does anyone not guess immediately what the boy Yambo's involvement will be when the Cossacks are trapped by Germans in fogbound San Martino?), and finally turns on the dual deus ex machinae of a hidden room and a rare Shakespearean folio. Eco's characters are surprisingly wooden, ranging from his all-but-invisible wife Paola to the philosophizing solder Gragnola to Solara's maidservant Amalia (who is translated into some sort of Brooklyn hillbilly spouting \\"Jumping Jehoshaphat,\\" \\"...them records...,\\" and \\"...what a noggin!\\"). True Eco fans will certainly find their pleasures here, but readers hoping for human drama, or even a compelling mystery on the level of THE NAME OF THE ROSE will, I think, be disappointed.  <br /> <br />	2005-06-27
US	37234590	R1QR32P6U5HWQM	1585423424	286855196	Banana Republicans: How the Right Wing is Turning America Into a One-Party State	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Cry the Beloved Country -- Shame on Us	This is simply a must read for thinking Americans, a wake-up call and a political call to arms for those who still believe in the principles of open democracy. In BANANA REPUBLICANS, authors Sheldon Rampton and John Stauber describe the political system of a country that is barely recognizable as that of the Founding Fathers. In clear and highly readable prose, with countless footnotes and dozens of supporting anecdotes, Rampton and Stauber portray today's political system as the type our Founders fled from when they left Europe, the kind of system they strove to prevent when crafting the Constitution. Reading their book, I could only cry for what has been lost, for how far we have strayed from the grand democratic ideals I was taught were our heritage and our trust.  <br /> <br />BANANA REPUBLICANS is a book that will have you shaking your head in disgust or despair every few pages. The book begins by examining the Right Wing think tanks funded by a few wealthy families:  the Mellons, Koch's, Bradleys, and Olins, for example, as well as the Coors. These wealthy scions have literally purchased the \\"marketplace of ideas,\\" filling the air so insistently with radical, unscientific, poorly-researched notions that their mere repetition gradually gives them credence. The authors then move on to address the Right Wing's creation of a media \\"echo chamber\\" so loud, so effective, and so little concerned with truth that any story, no matter how unfounded, becomes credible. They offer as examples the absurdly misreported story of Bill Clinton's infamous airport runway haircut, Clinton's so-called \\"bimbo eruptions\\" and paternity allegations, and the hyperinflated and grossly incorrect misquoting and reporting about Al Gore's role in the early development of the Internet as examples of not only how the echo chamber operates, but how it diverts attention from issues to personalities and trivia. As anyone knows who listens to Limbaugh, O'Reilly, Hannity, et. al., they are masters of such ad hominem reductionism. Along the way, the authors also provide a well-deserved skewering of ABC's John Stossel, a reporter of right wing pseudo-science who has consistently hidden his agenda behind his audience's own lack of knowledge. Remember the Republican \\"outrage\\" over Clinton's use of the Lincoln Bedroom for political donors? Has anyone heard the issue mentioned since George Bush took office? Why not? The practice is as common today as it was during Clinton's Presidency.  <br /> <br />Rampton and Stauber  document the current Bush Administration's persistent manipulation of government studies and websites to fit its agenda, particularly in the area of scientific research. Chapter Five, \\"Block the Vote,\\" is undoubtedly the most disturbing chapter of this book. As others have, the authors describe the Right Wing Republican agenda to subvert American democracy in the name of gaining and permanently holding political power. According to the authors, they have done so through fear and intimidation, disinformation campaigns, manipulating voter registration, suppressing black voter turnout, ramrodding off-year gerrymandered redistricting through state legislatures, and resorting to various forms of election fraud. Again, Rampton and Stauber support their case with numerous examples. In Chapter six, the last major content chapter, the authors illustrate how the current Administration, aided and abetted by the Conservative media echo chamber, has turned virtually all questioning and criticism of government plans, programs, and actions into \\"treason\\" or \\"traitorous behavior.\\" So much for open debate in a democratic society, now just a memory among those of us old enough to recall it.  <br /> <br />BANANA REPUBLICANS makes it clear that the Republican Party has not simply declared war on Democrats, they have declared war on democracy itself. The goal is a one party system with a marginalized second party for the sake of appearances. They can't afford for the United States to look too much like the old Soviet Union - it would puncture that rose-colored, idealized America they keep passing off as reality to Red Staters while they are busy subverting it. This is an eye-opening book for the uninitiated, well worth the little time it takes to read. If it results in feelings of outrage and despair over the state of our nation and our political system, well then, you've gotten the message.  <br /> <br />	2005-06-14
US	37234590	RR205BVQJ13BF	0374299625	440745925	Specimen Days	Books	5	49	52	N	N	A Magnificent Adaptation of Whitman to Modern American Life	Following publication of his paean to universality, LEAVES OF GRASS, Walt Whitman spent much of his Civil War years as a nurse in the war hospitals around Washington, D.C. His experiences dealing with the human ruination visited by war upon ordinary souls led to two great  but lesser known works, a book of poetry entitled DRUM TAPS (\\"O Captain, My Captain\\") and a collection of essays about the horrors of war published in 1882 under the title SPECIMEN DAYS. Michael Cunningham's SPECIMEN DAYS draws not only its title but its thematic soul from Whitman. Rather than the Civil War, however, Cunningham focuses on humanity's war against itself and the planet on which we live. His is a story of terrorism told in three parts, beginning with industrial terrorism, moving to post-9/11 acts of random terrorism, and ending with a futuristic parable of ecological and religious terrorism.  <br /> <br />The first section of SPECIMEN DAYS is entitled \\"In the Machine.\\" The main character, Simon, has just died, literally eaten by a metal stamping machine in a factory referred to as \\"the works,\\" a Dickensian horror chamber of industrial mindlessness. Simon's betrothed, Catherine, works as a seamstress, sewing sleeves to bodices at a dress company named Mannahatta. Simon's birth-deformed, 12-year-old brother, Lucas, takes Simon's place in the same factory, on the same machine. Lucas's belief that he can hear his dead brother's voice in the machine leads him to a seemingly demented act that saves Catherine's life. <br /> <br />In the second section, titled \\"The Children's Crusade,\\" Catherine becomes Cat, a 30-ish black woman trained as a psychologist, all intuitions and hunches. Cat works for the police department, taking hot line calls of would-be bombers and deciding which ones to take seriously. Simon becomes her younger, white, MBA futures trader, the very soul of analytical reason. Cat's tragic mistake in judgment on a child's call leads her to connect with \\"the family,\\" a loose network of child terrorists seeking to reconnect urban Americans to rural life and Nature. Lucas appears as another deformed young boy, this one a terrorist whose mission has only just begun when he meets Cat.  <br /> <br />In the futuristic final section, \\"Like Beauty,\\" Catherine is Catareen, a four-foot tall, female lizard-alien from the planet Nadia. Most of the north and northeastern U.S. is now uninhabitable as a result of \\"the meltdown,\\" radical Christian factions have apparently seized control of the government, and New York City has become a gigantic theme park. Simon is an android actor, stationed in Central Park as a mugger and programmed to thrill Eurasian tourists with the dangerous nostalgia of \\"Old New York.\\" A most unlikely pair, Catareen and Simon set out for Denver on a mythic quest, where they meet the deformed boy Lucas and their respective fates.  <br /> <br />Walt Whitman infuses Cunningham's stories like a spiritual force, even making a personal appearance in the first section as he guides young Lucas to his first vision of the stars over the Angel of the Waters Fountain in Central Park's Bethesda Terrace. More than just having characters who almost uncontrollably utter lines from LEAVES OF GRASS (as a result of psychological defect, brainwashing, and finally, a faulty \\"poetry chip\\"), Cunningham makes Whitman's, \\"Every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you\\" an insistent refrain. Freedom to live a natural life, to live in Nature instead of simply dominating and corrupting it, is Cunningham's recurring theme. Small Whitmanisms flicker through the text - Mannahatta, the name of the dress company in the first story, is the title of one \\"chapter\\" of LEAVES OF GRASS. Cunningham also plays on Whitman's sense of earthly and cosmic oneness by using the name Gaya in all three sections, an obvious homonym for the Earth Goddess Gaia and the so-called Gaia Hypothesis of the Earth as itself a living, breathing organism.  <br /> <br />SPECIMEN DAYS is a great literary read, at once an historical novel, a contemplation of post-9/11 America, and a futuristic science fantasy. It is a book you will not want to put down until you've finished it. Familiarity with Walt Whitman's work is not necessary, but reading this book will surely convey Whitman's illimitable sense of wonder at life's interconnectedness and his belief in the eternal continuity of all things. What better weapon with which to combat industrial, ecological, and religious terrorism than such exuberant passion for life and for our eternal place among the stars?  <br /> <br />	2005-06-13
US	37234590	R3OOE1N0XPT9DG	1576753018	331881073	Confessions of an Economic Hit Man	Books	2	15	21	N	N	A Book that Falls Spectacularly Short of Its Promise	Let me say that I am a liberal and I agree with the basic economic premises of this book. I expected to like this book and learn something from the author's experiences. Instead, I was terribly disappointed by the book's lack of substance and cloying self-centeredness. I expect this will not be a terribly popular review, but I have to call 'em as I see 'em.  <br /> <br />The plot line is classic. Man makes pact with the devil, sells his soul for money, power, and beautiful women, experiences occasional frissons of doubt but rationalizes them away while enjoying the fast life, and ultimately realizes his tragic mistake in selling his eternal soul for a few transient pleasures. In CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, the devil is identified as a vague \\"corporatocracy\\" and a woman named Claudine is his representative. A few decidedly female angels periodically whisper hopeful encouragements over our hero's shoulder, but he mostly demurs and follows the money. Unfortunately, our hero is no Faust, and the story he tells comes across as a dreary and annoyingly repetitive confessional with all the substance of a daytime soap opera.  <br /> <br />With his ostensibly insider's status, John Perkins is well-situated to offer a juicy and revealing tale of pernicious economic imperialism. Regretably, what Perkins delivers in CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN is long on self-serving confessions, bald rationalizations, and nave realizations, and short on details, insider or otherwise. He gives us plausible (and likely true) Time Magazine-like accounts of American-sponsored economic power grabbing in Saudi Arabia, Ecuador, Panama, Colombia, and Venezuala, suggestions of a mysterious force of trained EHM's (Economic Hit Men) without a shred of supporting evidence or detail (unless you accept the name of his trainer, Claudine, as evidence), and virtually none of the insider details such a book would suggest. There's simply no there there.  <br /> <br />Worse, Perkins' direct involvement as a supposed EHM ended in 1980, making his entire story badly dated and twenty years late for publication. The author scrambles to find a way to make his book seem current, but in the end, he clearly still doesn't get it. He sees CNN and New York Times stories about Bechtel and Halliburton in Iraq as the truth \\"reluctantly\\" leaking out when the fact is that the his corporatocracy has won. They no longer have to hide. Americans hear the stories, yawn, and go back to watching \\"Survivor\\" and \\"American Idol.\\" At least in America, the forces of global empire are now institutionalized - they are the norm, inextricably wedded to the government and military. Ho hum - is it time for \\"Desperate Housewives\\" yet? How's the runaway bride doing lately? <br /> <br />Perkins' writing is full of shallow, undergraduate-level \\"wonderings\\" and \\"ponderings\\" coupled with self-serving crises of faith and a bizarre (and truly unconvincing) dream of a talking, Third World Jesus. A laughable scene in Panama has the author meeting his self-proclaimed \\"favorite novelist,\\" Graham Greene, who proceeds to encourage Perkins in high school English teacher style to write a book because \\"It's in you, but remember, make it about things that matter.\\" Sadly, the scene is marred by getting the title wrong of Greene's THE POWER AND THE GLORY. Maybe Greene was also just punning on his own novel, THE HEART OF THE MATTER; if so, Perkins didn't get it. The writing is also insufferably self-centered. There are just too many nights \\"I shall always remember,\\" \\"that I will never forget,\\" and \\"that catapulted me to a new level of thinking and feeling.\\" And too many \\"feelings of guilt,\\" \\"haunted me's,\\" \\"paroxysms of guilt,\\" \\"detest myself's,\\" \\"soul torn aparts,\\" \\"sense of depressions,\\" \\"horrified by the extent of my own corruptions,\\" and plain self-hatings and self-loathings,  Perkins' repetitive guilt pangs and crises of conscience become mere carping as he keeps taking the money and looking the other way. What could have been a revealing expose of insidious, power-driven globalization inflicted on Third World countries barely passes for another weepy episode of Dr. Phil.  <br /> <br />Late in the book, Perkins suggests that Stone and Webster (SWEC) \\"bribed\\" him, paying him off with a lucrative, low-work consulting contract to stop him from writing his tell-all book about EHM's. By any measure, Stone and Webster overpaid. Don't make the same mistake - take a pass on this one and donate the $24.95 to the Nature Conservancy, the Sierra Club, or Greenpeace.  <br /> <br />	2005-06-01
US	37234590	R3APCS8DSPPXB6	140130799X	205833124	The Exception to the Rulers: Exposing Oily Politicians, War Profiteers, and the Media That Love Them	Books	5	52	56	N	N	A Disturbing Examination of American News Media	The Founding Fathers of the United States, well-versed in the principles of Athenian democracy, understood the relationship between democratic government and an educated, informed electorate. To choose just one from among those distinguished framers and implementers of our Constitution, James Madison wrote: \\"A popular government, without popular information, or the means of acquiring it, is but a prologue to a farce or a tragedy. A people who mean to be their own governors must arm themselves with the power which knowledge gives them.\\"  <br /> <br />Amy Goodman, the tirelessly crusading host of radio and public access television's \\"Democracy Now!\\" program, brilliantly demonstrates in THE EXCEPTION TO THE RULERS just how far we have strayed from Madison's (and Jefferson's) ideals of an educated electorate. At a time when Americans have more news sources than ever - newspapers, magazines, radio, public television, cable television, books, 24-hour news channels, weblogs and Internet websites - we are less well-informed than ever. Rather, we are more ill-informed than ever, bathed every day in such news as the six major corporations who control over 75% of our media outlets choose to present.  <br /> <br />As Ms. Goodman aptly illustrates, these six companies are not only motivated by profit, they pander to government officials to preserve their all-important access to even more government propaganda. Ms. Goodman identifies their collective failings as sins of both commission (one-sided reporting, willingly adopting the official government viewpoints, and allowing themselves to be co-opted through such techniques as embedded reporting) and omission (failing drastically to present alternative viewpoints). The end result is a dramatic failure to inform the populace. Parroting official government pronouncements, limiting access to public airways to those who represent or side with government, suppressing or trivializing dissent, fearing government retaliation for too-critical reporting, refusing to demand meaningful answers, kowtowing to business interests - what sounds like the press in Communist China is now what constitutes the mass news media in the United States. If this sounds exaggerated, read Chapter 10 of this book, entitled \\"Killing the Messengers;\\" George Orwell and Aldous Huxley were right.  <br /> <br />EXCEPTION TO THE RULERS is a stunning indictment of modern news media. Amy Goodman offers numerous examples, ranging from the shameful, pre-war shilling of the New York Times's Judith Miller to the collective media failure to report on U.S. involvement in Indonesia's 15+-year genocide in East Timor. In addition to her own experiences in East Timor and with Bill Clinton and Sally Jesse Raphael, she describes the failings of post-9/11 reporting, the run-up to Afghanistan and Iraq, the Jessica Lynch propaganda fiasco, the death sentence of Mumia Abu-Jamal, domestic use of psyops (Psychological Operations) techniques during the current Iraq war, and Michael Powell's near-dismantling of the FCC's regulatory function. One quote alone from Mr. Powell is worth the price of this book: \\"The night I was sworn in, I waited for a visit from the angel of the public interest. I waited all night, but she did not come. And in fact, five months into this job, I still have had no divine awakening and no one has issued me my public interest crystal ball.\\" Aside from its appalling, Brobdingnagian hubris, could any single comment speak more to the current Bush Administration's blatant disregard of democratic principles? <br /> <br />Still, this book is not a mere academic diatribe. What makes EXCEPTION TO THE RULERS so powerful is that Ms. Goodman speaks from firsthand knowledge - she risked her life in East Timor, she reported from the streets of Seattle during the 1999 WTO demonstrations, and she had the nerve to confront Tom Brokaw. Ms. Goodman is a model of journalism in its proper sense, as a search for truth and a stubborn insistence inasking the difficult questions. Her life is not the gleaming, pampered, high-profile, content-free, uncontroversial, corporate party line reporting of Tom Brokaw and Peter Jennings, but the down-and-dirty work of a journalist seeking the other side of the story. Her approach characterizes the news media we idealize in a democratic society, yet sadly these voices are in danger of disappearing or being marginalized into irrelevance.  <br /> <br />Where are the Jeffersons and the Madisons when we need them to remind us of the critical underpinnings of democratic government? Read this book and weep for what has been lost, and what more we are in danger of losing as the Amy Goodman's of the world are forced into steadily smaller corners.  <br /> <br />	2005-05-26
US	37234590	R31TKSQ3NL0PPC	1400042135	927791454	The Love Wife	Books	3	12	16	N	Y	In the End, We Must All Learn to Be Orphans	Books about cultural assimilation and the immigrant experience in America have long been literary staples, with the Asian-American perspective being the most recent blossoming. The best of them, such as Chang Rae-Lee's A GESTURE LIFE, Lan Samantha Chang's HUNGER, Jhumpa Lahiri's THE NAMESAKE, and Le Thi Diem Thuy's THE GANGSTER WE ARE ALL LOOKING FOR, are deeply intimate. They maintain a small narrative scope, offering microscopic demonstrations of macroscopic issues while avoiding stereotypes.  <br /> <br />Gish Jen's THE LOVE WIFE aspires to a broader view of personal and societal issues - foreign adoption, career mothers, self-identity and self-fulfillment, capitalism and greed, marital fidelity, job (in)security, racial violence, and controlling mothers. Regretably, the result is something of an overreach, a novel disrupted in its last third by forced plot contrivances that overwhelm the book's earlier, more evenly-paced character building. The story's surprise revelation of Mama Wong's machinations from beyond the grave - the novel's central plot element - seems curiously anticlimactic as a consequence.  <br /> <br />THE LOVE WIFE ostensibly presents the ultimate multicultural family. Gish Jen gives us the mixed Irish-American/Asian-American marriage of blue-eyed, blond-haired Janie Bailey, nicknamed Blondie by her mother-in-law, and Chinese Carnegie Wong, no doubt superstitiously named by his money-driven mother after the great American industrialist. Into this family come two adopted girls, Wendy (Chinese) and Lizzy (of such uncertain Asian origin she calls herself the soup de jour) and a blond, biological son. Orbiting around them are the emotionally dead Bailey family and the smothering and manipulating Mama Wong, herself a successful businesswoman who has never accepted Carnegie's lack of financial drive nor his choice of blond bride.   <br /> <br />At Mama Wong's death, Carnegie learns from her will of a book detailing fifteen or more generations of the family genealogy. It is being held in Hong Kong by a friend of Mama Wong's, and it will be released to Carnegie only if he agrees to bring a distant relative, Lan, to America to be the family nanny. Carnegie does so, only to set in motion a chain of feelings and events that slowly spin out of control with successively worse consequences. Lan insinuates her way into the family through passive-aggressive manipulation of Wendy's and Lizzie's feelings. She alienates Blondie, who feels so threatened by the loss of her adopted children and Carnegie's obvious romantic interests in a \\"love wife\\" that she quits her high-powered job and eventually takes even more drastic measures. Events spin ever faster out of control, resulting in beatings, two surprise assaults with a garden pitchfork, a tragic fire, and a heart attack. To paraphrase Tolstoy, this unhappy family is unhappy in its own, culturally unmoored way. <br /> <br />The central characters in THE LOVE WIFE feel surprisingly stereotyped. Carnegie is the impotent Chinese male, emasculated by his mother, a career success in some underwhelming Xerox copy called Document Management Systems who ultimately gets laid off. Blondie is the overachieving, vegan, yoga-practicing, career mother who reminded me of nothing so much as Tea Leoni's hilariously hyperventilated uber-mom in the movie SPANGLISH. Lan is the bootstrapping immigrant climber full of the financial hunger Mama Wong wishes her son would demonstrate; one gets the feeling that Blondie and Lan could have easily lived each other's lives and ended in the same places. Lizzy is the standard rebellious teenager, while Mama Wong is the money-hungry Chinese businesswoman, oppressive mother, and impossible mother-in-law. Friend Gabriela is a goat-owning, New Age flake, Billy is the routine racist lout, and Shang is little more than a psychopathic Chinese yakuza. Oddly, these characters seem to skitter like water bugs around one another rather than making heartfelt connections. They feel strangely disassociated from one another.  <br /> <br />Gish Jen's prose and dialogue are affecting, and her portrayal of Chinese cultural tone is wonderfully on target. Lan was born and lived her early years in Suzhou, and Jen taps accurately (if perhaps a bit superficially) into that city's rich and unique cultural tradition. The author uses a multiple-narrator approach in which all the main characters tell parts of the story from their various perspectives. This complicates the story slightly, but it creates a fuller, more kaleidoscopic set of narrative voices, like watching a documentary created from interviews with different family members (a literary CAPTURING THE FRIEDMANS, perhaps). THE LOVE WIFE offers an interesting take on cultural identity and cross-cultural adoption, but in the end, the novel is outdone by its own stereotyping and pyrotechnic plotting. <br />	2005-05-25
US	37234590	R2MOK9O1V5XWT	0393059022	670904481	Foreign Babes In Beijing: Behind The Scenes Of A New China	Books	5	78	86	N	N	A Telling Look at Late 1990's Beijing	Having lived for much of the period from 2001 - 2004 in Suzhou, (about 50 miles west of Shanghai), I can categorically say that Rachel DeWoskin's new book, FOREIGN BABES IN CHINA, gets nearly everything right when it comes to Chinese culture and interpersonal relations. Her book is a fascinating account of a city, a country, and a culture in transition. The people around her, and she herself, suffer the contradictions of tradition versus modernity, socialism versus entrepreneurial capitalism, blind patriotism versus Westernization, and government control versus individual freedom, yet everyone zooms ahead to find their own way even as the book's timeline approaches the millennium.     Ms. DeWoskin arrives in Beijing on something of a lark, a college grad with an English degree, a little Mandarin, and a desire for something adventurous. She has taken a position with the Beijing office of an international public relations firm (we later learn that \\"P.R.\\" sounds uncomfortably like the Chinese word for an unflattering body part) but quickly finds the work empty of content. She unexpectedly gets offered a spot as one of the two foreign female leads in a new Chinese soap opera entitled \\"Yang Niu Zai Beijing,\\" or \\"Foreign Babes in Beijing.\\" She is duped into signing a contract for far less than she's worth to the producers (there are still relatively few attractive young Western women in Beijing in 1995), and a series of acting misadventures and cast romances ensue. DeWoskin can barely separate her real-life feelings for her hunky co-star Wang Ling from their respective romantic roles in the soap opera. In the end, \\"Foreign Babes\\" is a huge success throughout China, and Ms. Dewoskin is recognized everywhere she goes as Jiexi, the \\"loose\\" Western woman who steals a married Chinese man (Wang Ling's character, Tianming) from his wife and takes him to America.     The author eventually quits her P.R. job and takes on a series of small acting and spokesperson roles, and even takes a brief turn as a runway model. Along the way, she meets and briefly profiles four young Beijingers (two female and two male, despite oddly labeling their chapters, \\"Biographies of Model Babes\\") and describes their lives, beliefs, and aspirations. Each is fiercely independent and nontraditional, seeking to find their own identity and purpose in a newly-opened society. These four people are sometimes misinformed and often obstinate, even foolishly obstreperous, but there's no doubt they are brave, going where relatively few in their country have gone before.     DeWoskin develops close relationships with each of her four Beijingers, including a live-in relationship with the actor/screenwriter Zhao Jun. The last one-third of the book details her post-Jiexi life, which seems to devolve into clubbing and bar-hopping punctuated by occasional vague hints at working. Two tragedies -- the sudden death of a close Chinese friend juxtaposed against the mistaken U.S./NATO bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade -- bring DeWoskin's relationships and her Chinese life to an abrupt end just as the 20th Century is drawing to a close. It is time to go home, to find her place in her native country.     Ms. DeWoskin tells her story in casual prose with easy pacing. Her writing is sometimes poignant and other times humorous. The reader feels her confusion about Chinese life and language; she doesn't even learn until later that her Chinese name, Du Ruiqiu (Du for DeWoskin, Ruiqiu to sound like Rachel), actually means \\"Bumper Harvest.\\" She finds huge cultural gaps and differences with everyone around her. She makes repeated cultural faux pas, but muddles through nonetheless, just like any American in her place. Interlaced with her story are bits and pieces of Chinese history and language. Ms. DeWoskin also offers a number of surprisingly on-target, passing observations about Chinese life and culture: the importance of face, women covering their mouths when laughing, lack of winterheating, foreigners' prices, women holding hands but not hugging, and a host of others. Combined, these little bits add to a greater whole, creating a \\"Beijing atmosphere\\" that effectively complements her personal story.     It is hard not to see FOREIGN BABES IN CHINA as a coming of age story, both for the nave, young college graduate author and for the country in which she is perpetually an outsider. She uses China and the Chinese for her own adventure story as surely as they use her for her \\"exotic\\" foreignness. This book is also a story about cross-cultural personal relationships, about roles assumed and played out, about what is thought and said, and not said, between any two people, complicated a hundredfold by cultural differences and ways of thinking. In the end, Ms. DeWoskin's confused, conflicted, and ultimately lost relationship with Zhao Jun may well serve as a metaphor for the instability, and perhaps the utter hopelessness, of the larger Sino-American relationship.	2005-05-13
US	37234590	R1FG5Q1ZBHS51M	0740750399	537970271	Hard Sell: The Evolution of a Viagra Salesman	Books	3	16	22	N	N	Bart Simpson Sells Viagra	Imagine Matt Groenig letting Bart Simpson reach his mid-20's, after muddling his way through as a mediocre student at Notre Dame (what funnier place could there be for a confirmed slacker to practice his art?) and goofing off for a few years in the army. What could be the best place for Bart to get his first job, a place where he could refine his slacker's art while tossing around prepubescent sex jokes and sophomoric double entendres? Hmmm, let me think a minute. Why, of course, a Viagra salesman!!  <br /> <br />In HARD SELL, Jamie Reidy fashions himself a real-life Bart Simpson, a perpetual slacker and all around \\"good guy\\" who stumbles into the world of pharmaceutical sales (he displays his initial disinterest in the job by labeling it farm tool sales). He lands a spot in Pfizer's vaunted sales training program for pharmaceutical reps and graduates into a position repping the company's Pediatric Division products in northern Indiana. Reidy details his rapid realization that he could play the system and work \\"T to T,\\" Tuesday to Thursday, ten to two. The first three quarters of HARD SELL describes his learning process, describing how he manipulated Pfizer's voice mail system, its expense reporting system, and the doctor's signature system for distributed samples, all to look like he was working when he wasn't, even hiding dozens of unauthorized vacation days.  <br /> <br />Not surprisingly, Reidy's sales numbers catch up with him; like Bart Simpson, Reidy seems incapable of seeing a few months ahead and putting the inevitable 2 and 2 together). His manager wants to move him out as an underachiever (he had no idea how true that was), and miraculously, Reidy transfers into Pfizer's expanding Urology Division just as Viagra is coming onto the market. The luck of the Irish follows this Notre Damer to Fresno, CA, and for a while at least, Reidy becomes the most popular guy in town. Matt Groenig couldn't have developed a better setup for the frat house hijinks to follow.  <br /> <br />HARD SELL is eminently readable, using a writing voice that comes across like Reidy is talking to you over happy hour drinks at the local watering hole. His story is funny the way Bart Simpson is funny: a rebellious slacker with a sarcastic, frequently off-color mouth. Reidy's cultural references befit his slacker image, tending toward Pamela Anderson, Shaggy and Scooby, Sipowicz, the gang at \\"Cheers,\\" Darth Vader, Pop Rocks, the Hulk, and the Fonz. <br /> <br />Reidy's book presents a humorous if somewhat immature inside look at one aspect of the pharmaceuticals industry. Nobody comes across as particularly noble: doctors come across as cheapskate nuisance avoiders, nurses as ineffectual gatekeepers swayed by candies, flowers, and free food. Pfizer field sales management is portrayed as distant and clueless, responsible for a veritable army of freebie-wielding slackers. Reidy makes a great, if perhaps inadvertent, case that pharmaceutical reps do almost nothing UPS and a decent, \\"doctors only\\" website couldn't do.  <br /> <br />Readers looking for real insight, or just inside dirt, on Viagra and Viagra salesmen will find HARD SELL small potatoes. Reidy is far too shallow to deal seriously with ethics or morals, or with such conundrums as hypocritical pharmacists who gladly fill Viagra prescriptions while refusing to dispense birth control or morning after pills. He'd rather stand at the bar, snickering with the boys about Viagra, telling a story about witnessing a circumcision, and tossing out a high schooler's witticisms, like his book title, about ED. The book's conclusion is hardly surprising, although Reidy's sales results for one halfway serious year are.  <br /> <br />On balance, sophomoric - a college sophomore's humor mixed with a high school sophomore's shallowness in an \\"'Animal House' meets Viagra\\" tale.  <br /> <br />	2005-05-09
US	37234590	R1KQPIKEI6AVDW	0385494327	214937180	Black Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An Ominous Commentary on the Lurking Threat of Evil	Ian McEwan proves once again in BLACK DOGS to be a master of literary understatement, a writer whose power (like that of fellow Brit Kazuo Ishiguro) derives from an ability to thread hints of mindless evil through even the most well-heeled, socially-ordered circumstances. In McEwan's modern world, newlyweds, happy families, and prosperous businessmen and professionals live, often blissfully unaware, on a cliff edge, always just a short step from a precipitous drop into loss or chaos. Even the most comfortable lives are far more fragile and more easily disrupted than those who live them ever imagine. <br /> <br />In BLACK DOGS, McEwan has trained his sights on the world-shattering events of the mid-20th Century, from World War II and the rise of fascism and communism to the fall of the Berlin Wall. He chooses as his narrator a young man named Jeremy, orphaned at an early age by an auto accident, raised by his older sister (herself trapped in a dysfunctional marriage), and bookishly educated in an English prep school. Inordinately attached to the parents of his school friends, Jeremy meets and marries Jenny Tremaine and becomes equally, if not more attached, to Jenny's free-spirited, socially and politically liberal parents, Bernard and June. It is Bernard and June who provide the core of this novel, their story unfolding on dual tracks through Jeremy and Bernard's attendance at the fall of the Berlin Wall and Jeremy's interviews with June as background for publication of her memoirs.  <br /> <br />Throughout the novel, McEwan hints at a transformational event in June's life, something that occurred when she and Bernard were newlyweds hiking through south France. Because of this mysterious event, which took place near a dolmen, an ancient tomb or burial ground, June had abandoned communism for a form of religious mysticism, she and Bernard separated (but never divorced) for nearly their entire adult lives, and they bought a country home near the site of the life-changing incident. McEwan alludes repeatedly to black dogs and the story of the local village mayor, but it is not until the end that we learn the nature of the event itself. More significant, we learn the source of these ominous black dogs and their historical and metaphorical meanings. Only in the last third of the book does the true horror of those amorphous dogs come to light, and even then, McEwan leaves their meaning ambiguous - perhaps real, perhaps the lewd imaginings of a few country farmers. Similarly, June's transformation can be seen as realization of life's fragility or as a religious epiphany with echoes of the lightning that struck Saul in the New Testament and converted him to Paul the Apostle.  <br /> <br />McEwan's message is inescapable. Whether we view life through a rational, scientific lens or a religious, mystical one, we must be on guard against the emergence of evil, whether modestly benign or umimaginably malevolent. The human potential for evil rests within everyone, and it lurks at the fringes of society, hidden from sight like black dogs roaming a sparsely-populated countryside, until we turn a corner and stare it face to face. How we respond (compare June's direct actions to Bernard's simultaneously intellectualized ponderings over a parade of caterpillars) says everything about who we are, how we influence the course of events around us, and how those events affect us (could Jenny's atrophied sixth finger be a byproduct of June's experience with pure evil at the dolmen?). BLACK DOGS masterfully contemplates the issues of good and evil and faith versus rationalism while leaving readers plenty of room to argue either side. The pacing is almost too controlled, but the resulting explosion of irrationality into an ordered world is all the more powerful for it.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-07
US	37234590	R1UGJ6X8OY2NB6	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Interesting, but Neither Freaky nor Economics	\\"Prepare to be dazzled,\\" says the cover quote from Malcolm Gladwell. Prepare to be disappointed if you buy FREAKONOMICS for this sort of hype, although you will still find this book interesting. While Messrs. Levitt and Dubner have authored an entertaining and occasionally insightful work, much of their analytical material seems oddly trite. This is due in part to their topics - sumo wrestlers, real estate agents, children's names, crack cocaine, swimming pools - and in part to their colloquial and non-technical presentation style.  <br /> <br />In FREAKONOMICS, Levitt and Dubner have set out on a worthy, although hardly original, mission: to puncture notions of opinion-based conventional wisdom with real data and relatively simple data analysis techniques using linear regression and correlation. On the positive side, and the analytical high point of the book, they brilliantly illustrate the many fallacies behind conventional explanations for the decline in crime during the 1990's. In so doing, they shred the Rudy Giuliani mystique regarding law enforcement in New York City by showing that the steep decline began several years before Giuliani became mayor and that New York's reduction was middle-of-the-pack when compared to other American cities after adjusting for the 45% growth in the NYPD's force (many of whom were added under Rudy's mayoral predecessor, David Dinkins). Levitt and Dubner conjure a unique alternative explanation and marshal good supporting evidence - that the national decline in crime was caused (18 years after the fact) by Roe v. Wade and the legalization of abortion.  <br /> <br />Levitt and Dubner provide other interesting information as well, although not always by the same analytical techniques. They present an interesting analysis of the effects of parenting on children's life success based on regression and correlation, although they only allude in vague terms to the serious problems of intercorrelation among the variables they analyze. Theauthors use far simpler methods to show that most drug dealers are little different from lotto players, schoolyard NBA wannabes, and aspiring authors, actors, and journalists. Two little nuggets buried on pages 150 - 151 are particularly interesting - that children are 100 times more likely to die in a house with a swimming pool than in a house with a gun, and that on a per-hour (rather than the usual per-100,000 miles basis), flying in an airplane is about as equally risky as driving in a car, not the many times safer we are generally led to believe.    <br /> <br />On the down side, the authors open the book with several bogus questions - \\"What do school teachers and sumo wrestlers have in common?\\" and \\"How is the Ku Klux Klan like a group of real-estate agents?\\" - which merely disguise the obvious: that incentive programs can lead people to cheat and that access to specialized information can be used to one's own advantage. Hardly shocking revelations. Another frivolous analysis determines that choice of childhood name has little statistical bearing on life outcomes, even if the name is highly ethnic. This chapter in particular is tedious and drawn out, adding little to the merits of their work.  <br /> <br />Levitt and Dubner seem to pride themselves on not having a unifying theme to their book, as if random questioning is an end in itself. In point of fact, their unifying theme is not to accept blindly the prevailing wisdom, to seek out and analyze underlying data that gets at the truth behind those conventions. As surely as the media propagate conventional wisdom, it is media's job to scrutinize and correct it. This type of analysis is what we should expect from good journalism; magazines like The New Republic once did this on a regular basis. Sadly, as Levitt's and Dubner's analysis of national crime rates in the 1990's demonstrates, this is now seldom the case. FREAKONOMICS might be an excellent required reading addition at schools of journalism, coupled with an introductory course in data analysis.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-03
US	37234590	RRAKP6EX3YY31	1565848918	973944901	Spanking The Donkey: Dispatches From The Dumb Season	Books	4	72	76	N	N	Hugely Entertaining and Devastatingly On Point	In SPANKING THE DONKEY, Matt Taibbi presents something the combined forces of the New York Times, Washington Post, Newsweek, Time, the Wall Street Journal, CNN, MSNBC, and countless dozens of other journalistic outlets proved sadly incapable of presenting: an honest and unflinching look at the 2004 Presidential campaign in all its glorious inanity, irrelevance, and hypocrisy. Taibbi illustrates repeatedly the sheer silliness of the American whistle stop primary campaigning process, from the image-driven beauty contests in which every contestant struggles to make the least possible concrete statements to the press-driven horse race assessments. Along the way, he savages nearly every Democratic candidate, particularly John Kerry and Wesley Clark, reserving a soft spot in his heart only for the intellectual honesty and depth of belief in the quixotic campaign of Dennis Kucinich.  <br /> <br />To address the Republican side of the process (since there were no meaningful primaries), Taibbi details a priceless, two-month escapade in which he went undercover as a volunteer in the Florida campaign operation of George W. Bush. In so doing, the author provides a fascinating look at a typical collection of Republican political operatives, campaign volunteers, and the Right's \\"true converts.\\" He gives us a Tampa Deputy Sheriff who espouses a form of military cloning that would put Hitler to shame, a campaign office staffer who casually throws out a comment to a black volunteer that, \\"I know how you people don't like to work,\\" and campaign volunteers whose take on Bush's gay policy is, \\"I don't know. He's never said anything.\\"  <br /> <br />More significant, Taibbi speculates from his observations that Republicans are not overtly racist, they simply tolerate or look the other way whenever racism appears among their number. As one campaign office worker noted, KKK country is Bush country. He also comments on the \\"Left Behind,\\" apocalyptic Christian syndrome: \\"The problem...with Republicans in general... is that they are incorrigible doubters with an insatiable appetite for Evidence. What they get off on is not Believing, but in having their beliefs tested. That's why their conversations and their media are so completely dominated by implacable bogeymen: marrying gays, liberals, the ACLU, Sean Penn, Europeans, and so on....They are not looking for facts with which to defeat opponents. They are looking for facts that will create opponents.\\" <br /> <br />Beneath this collection of expanded Rolling Stone pieces and selections from Taibbi's New York Press columns lie some disturbing truths and several interesting conjectures on the author's part. Taibbi mercilessly lambastes the mainstream media for their shallowness, their distance from the world of real people and real lives, their avoidance of controversy in order to protect their access to even more campaign trivia and tripe, their clubbiness (among themselves and with the candidates), and their write-850-words-a-day-and-mail-it-in attitudes. He saves some of his strongest diatribes for the press's craven coverage of the President's Thanksgiving Day trip to Iraq, an event that most of the world's press shredded for the callous and transparent publicity stunt that it was. Taibbi brilliantly deconstructs numerous examples of empty writing from the lions of the political reporting scene (Woodward, Fineman, Milbank, Will, etc.) and accuses them as a group of the greatest possible fraud: facilitating the election process as a theatrical ritual for \\"legitimizing a political process the rest of the country knows instinctively is a bunch of ****.\\" The candidates are irrelevant, as long as we are led to believe that the process is real, that it matters, and that all is well because we all believe in the legitimacy of what we are seeing.  <br /> <br />Matt Taibbi's writing is enjoyable to read, sarcastically on point with regard to Democrats and Republicans alike. Every other page contains a memorablecomment or a great one-liner. He dissects our electoral process for the meaningless, sound bite-filled beauty contest it is, increasingly a choice between Tweedledee and Tweedledum, engaged in a \\"race to see which Ivy League graduate is quicker to reach for a duck call at the sight of a Reuters photographer.\\"  <br /> <br />SPANKING THE DONKEY is certainly well left of center, but it's a thoroughly enjoyable dissertation on a process so intellectually bankrupt barely half our citizenry can be bothered to participate. Instinctively, it seems, they already know the truth. Mike Taibbi makes it fun to read and think about, but he is also deeply serious beneath the sarcastic veneer. How can you not relish a book whose conclusion on the 2004 Presidential election reads: \\"The Republicans won last week...because a large number of them stand for being deranged lunatics who believe that the Bible was the last book ever written, and for being intellectual cowards who hide from the terrifying complexities of modern society by placing all of their beliefs in infantile concepts like faith, force, and patriotism.\\" <br /> <br />	2005-04-27
US	37234590	RAHY7DZSTJSJM	0767911784	137552265	Conspiracy of Fools: A True Story	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Greed Is Good? Eichenwald Is Better	There are few American adults who haven't heard of Enron, but there are probably even fewer who can explain what happened to bring about the precipitous fall of one of Texas's and Wall Street's darlings of the roaring 1990's. In CONSPIRACY OF FOOLS, Kurt Eichenwald has accomplished the notable dual feat of making the Enron debacle both entertaining and understandable. Over the course of 675 pages, Eichenwald manages to introduce a huge cast of players, explain Enron's operations, outline its convoluted accounting and misbegotten reward systems, and turn an incident whose outcome we already know into a suspenseful story. This was a book and a topic I wasn't sure would sustain my interest, but the more I read, the less I wanted to put this book down.     Eichenwald paints his own portraits of the key players. We see Ken Lay as a glad-handing social striver, a CEO living in a cloud, never questioning where the amazing earnings were coming from as long as they kept showing up. Jeff Skilling appears self-centered and unstable, possibly the dumbest smart guy on the planet, while Andy Fastow comes across as little more than a smart petty thief and pathetic society wannabe. CONSPIRACY OF FOOLS has no shortage of villains, but there are heroes and tainted heroes in this book as well. The more you read, the more you root for them to win out - Jeff McMahon, Ray Bowen, Jordan Mintz, Bill Brown, Sherron Watkins, and Kevin Kindall at Enron, and Carl Bass at Arthur Andersen.     The Enron collapse was extraordinarily complex, and we may never know the full truth of what happened. Other books may assign blame differently or may emphasize or downplay one person's or group's role relative to others, but from my perspective, it hardly matters. CONSPIRACY OF FOOLS makes it clear that there was more than enough blame to go around, that Enron was a total, systemic collapse of unimaginable proportions. Nobody of significance emerges from Eichenwald's story unscathed: Enron's senior management and borderline incompetent Board of Directors, its outside lawyers and accountants (the late Arthur Andersen), its investment banks and lenders, the SEC, and Wall Street's shilling analysts. Even worse and more shameful were the various business journals and publications who lionized Ken Lay, Jeff Skilling, and even Andrew Fastow as business geniuses, paragons of MBA-instilled deftness and revolutionary thinking. Almost nobody did their job, and the few who tried were summarily ignored, transferred, or fired from positions too low to be noticed. Nearly everyone ignored one of the most basic common sense rules of business: when something seems too good to be true, it probably isn't true.     As Kurt Eichenwald makes abundantly clear, Enron is a morality tale, a case study if there ever was one in today's bonus-driven business environment. At every turn, CONSPIRACY OF FOOLS reveals a culture of greed and self-aggrandizement at the expense of truth, ethics, and the real interests of shareholders. The Board of Directors were too happy with the company's amazing results to question how such things might be possible, senior management was busy collecting its bonus checks (when it wasn't stealing outright from the company), the Andersen partner-in-charge repeatedly appeased his client to protect their $30+ million in consulting fees and his own bonus, and the investment bankers caved on every marginally legal deal rather than lose their gravy trains. Virtually no one involved acted according to their consciences or sense of ethical behavior, and few acted in the best interests of their companies. Eichenwald could easily have subtitled his book, \\"Show Me the Money!\\"    While the book tells a tale of one company's failure, it really offers an implicit indictment of an era characterized by Worldcom, Global Crossing, Adelphia, HealthSouth, Tyco, and too many others. Eichenwald never steps outside his story line to address the larger, systemic issues, but his story alone is enough to raise serious concerns. In a sense, the Harvards and Whartons and Kelloggs have created this environment; perhaps it's time for them to make books like CONSPIRACY OF FOOLS  part of their required reading. If there is a lesson to be learned here, it's that greed is decidely not good.	2005-04-21
US	37234590	R3678M55PY1CBS	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Still a Classic Satire, and Great Fun to Read	Every field of cultural endeavor has its own mischievous sprites: Ogden Nash in poetry, Andy Warhol in art, Alan Sherman and Randy Newman in pop music, Blake Edwards and the Farrelly brothers in cinema. Douglas Adams, whose improbable initials were DNA, would have to be regarded as one literature's mischief-makers, and his escapades begin with THE HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY, a classic that's as much about humor as science fiction.     Consider the underlying plot circumstances: the world's most powerful computer has spent seven and a half years determining that The Answer to the great question of \\"life, the universe, and everything\\" is 42, but that same computer admits it cannot determine what the question is. The planet architects of Magrathea are enlisted to design a planet, Earth, that will become the centerpiece of a 10 million year experiment to find the question. Unfortunately, five minutes before the experiment is completed (and the question found by a girl sitting alone in a small caf in Rickmansworth), the Vogons demolish the planet Earth (unnecessarily, as it turns out) to clear a path for the hyperspatial express route through the outer reaches of the galaxy.     Thus begins the adventures of one Arthur Dent - a perfectly ordinary Earthman and the sole human survivor of the demolition - and his friend Ford Prefect (named after a late 1940's Ford automobile), who turns out to be a field researcher for the indispensable Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Along the way, they meet one Zaphod Beeblebrox, President of the Galaxy who has just become a hunted thief for stealing the Heart of Gold, the most improbably remarkable car in the galaxy powered by an Infinite Improbability Drive.     Of course, all this science fiction foolishness is just a cover for Adams's real purpose, to satirize every sacred cow in our culture from religion and philosophy to evolution and technology. Nearly every page contains a droll comment, a cutting remark, or just an offbeat observation about the inherent oddity of life. Most of them will make you smile, and some may even make you laugh. Added to all this, Adams gives us talking white mice, a terminally depressive android named Marvin, a universal language translator in the form of a Babel fish, and a planet builder named Slartibartfast who specializes in fjords and got an award for designing Norway.     THE HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY is great fun, sort of a reader's Monty Python. It's a bit like reading a comic book without the pictures, a guilty pleasure that's difficult not to enjoy as a break from more serious work. Then again, Doug Adams's greatest accomplishment may have been being serious without seeming to be, telling us not to take ourselves so seriously. Who else could have had the Earth's population of dolphins escaping the planet just before its destruction, saying goodbye to humanity with the message, \\"Goodbye, and thanks for all the fish.\\"     Buy a copy, bring a towel, and \\"Don't Panic!\\" Just like Earth, it's \\"mostly harmless.\\"	2005-04-18
US	37234590	R2D3A33SWABFA2	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	5	945	1030	N	N	The Banality of Amoral Science	Kazuo Ishiguro's brilliant new book, NEVER LET ME GO, returns the author to the themes and approaches he first addressed in THE REMAINS OF THE DAY. Just as Stevens the butler devoted himself unthinkingly and uncritically to the minutiae of daily life on behalf of his Nazi sympathizing master, Lord Darlington, the main characters in Ishiguro's latest book focus on the irrelevant small details and minor tribulations of their lives without ever once contemplating the bigger picture. In both cases, the author not only conjures the question of the meaning of life, he asks us to contemplate the tragedy of wasted lives.     On its surface, NEVER LET ME GO tells the story of three special young people - Kathy H., Tommy D., and Ruth - all of whom meet as students at an idyllic private school called Hailsham. Kathy H. is the narrator, now 31 years old, telling her story in hindsight. She recalls her student days at Hailsham fondly, filling her tale with numerous minor anecdotes about the most mundane affairs that slowly reveal the nature of the school and its students' place in the world. (...) Ishiguro creates a convincing vocabulary, milieu, and mythology for this setting: guardians, carers, donors, completing, Exchanges, Sales, the Gallery, Norfolk, and an eerie sense of the students having \\"been told and not told.\\"    NEVER LET ME GO accomplishes the remarkable challenge of presenting 288 pages' worth of reading between the lines. Kathy, Ruth, and Tommy are not the real main characters of this story, only the visible ones. The real main characters are invisible, the ones who have not only facilitated the use of cloning as a form of organ farming, but who have created a conditioning environment in which their victims accept their fate without question, as the natural order of things. Kathy, Ruth, Tommy, and their ilk live among normal people yet virtually never approach them, willing segretating themselves from the rest of society as though they were lepers. They live in Skinner boxes without boundaries, conditioned to believe they exist only to sacrifice their lives for the continued life of others. We never see the bioengineers or social scientists who create and maintain this horrifying use of humanity. Instead, they are represented (only on a limited scale) by Hailsham's headmistress, Miss Emily, and the mysterious, art-collecting Madame Marie-Claude.     In 1963, after attending the trial of Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann in Israel, the renowned Hannah Arendt wrote a profound and controversial book entitled EICHMANN IN JERUSALEM: THE BANALITY OF EVIL. Arendt went to the trial expecting to see a monster. Who else could be responsible for such evil as the Holocaust? Instead, she found an accounting clerk. Not only were the most normal of people apparently capable of mindless cruelty, but their evil was senseless, meaningless even to themselves. In this way, their evil was banal. Ishiguro creates a similar feeling, using the triteness of Kathy H.'s reminiscences and Miss Lucy's behaviors and rationalizations to illustrate the banality of their own peculiar form of evil: science practiced for its own sake, without the application of moral standards. NEVER LET ME GO is neither preachily anti-science nor moralistically pro-religion. It is simply a call to include our consciences in the application of science. Perhaps the fact that the first identified character in the book to speak other than Kathy and Ruth is a student named Hannah (who never appears again in the text) is Ishiguro's way of telling us to beware the dangers of banality, that sliding over the edge from ordinariness to \\"Ruth-less\\" evil is easier than we think.    I puzzled for a while over the setting - England in the 1990's - until I realized that the first sheep clone, Dolly, was created in England in 1996 and died prematurely a few years later. In a sense, all of Hailsham's students are sheep, raised in out-of-the-way rural settings, separated from society and isolated from knowledge of both the practical world and the world of ideas, limited in their human interactions except with one another, and, of course, bred to be consumed (for their vital organs). On several occasions, I was reminded of the cowlike creature in Doug Adams's RESTAURANT AT THE END OF THE UNIVERSE who greets diners by declaiming the tasty virtues of his best parts and declares: \\"..it was eventually decided to ... breed an animal that actually wanted to be eaten and was capable of saying so clearly and distinctly. And here I am.\\" Adams presented his creature for comic effect; Ishiguro presents his \\"poor creatures\\" (as Madame repeatedly calls them) for a low key but nightmarish effect.     NEVER LET ME GO is a transcendent novel, an astonishingly powerful work of literature. The pace is slow and the details seem trivial, but patient readers will be rewarded for their efforts with a thought-provoking exposition on whose life is worth living and who, if anyone, has the right to set the terms and conditions. Arendt contemplated the banality of evil - Ishiguro warns us of the evils that lurk behind banality.	2005-04-13
US	37234590	R3EGJNGF11094O	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	3	62	76	N	N	A Genial Read, but Predictable and Overplotted	Khaled Hosseini's first novel, THE KITE RUNNER, tells the story of a young boy named Amir who grows up in a financially aristocratic subculture of Afghanistan prior to the Russian invasion, eventually escapes with his father to California via Pakistan, and ultimately returns to the Taliban-governed Afghanistan to help the son of his childhood best friend, Hassan. After more than 450 book reviews, it hardly seems necessary to recap the story line yet again. Suffice to say that the story is told linearly and chronologically, tracing the arc of Amir's life into early middle age, from childhood to marriage, from betraying his best friend to achieving redemption for his failures.  <br /> <br />To its credit, THE KITE RUNNER operates on a number of simultaneous levels - as a depiction of Afghani culture and the horrendous changes the country has experienced, as a tale of childhood betrayal, sublimated guilt, and ultimate redemption, as a story of family secrets and their effects, and as a parable about fathers and sons and their expectations of one another. This is a man's story told by a man about a male-dominated culture; woman serve mostly as plot facilitators and are not well drawn or deeply presented. Nevertheless, THE KITE RUNNER is an engaging tale and Hosseini shows himself to be an effective storyteller. If nothing else, he knows how to pull his readers' heartstrings. Most readers will enjoy the story of Amir's childhood friendship with Hassan, their kite flying successes, Amir's harrowing escape from Afghanistan with his father, and his dangerous quest in Kabul.  <br /> <br />Unfortunately, THE KITE RUNNER also displays a first novelist's flaws. The plot is improbable and yet all too predictable, particularly the last third when character development is all but abandoned in favor of mysteries and emotional climaxes that are easily foreseen - the identity of the sadistic man in the sunglasses, Sohrab's ultimate home placement, the long-deferred fight between Amirand his childhood antagonist, and Sohrab's role in resolving their fight, his life and death hospital struggle, and the problem of his emigration. Each outcome is easily anticipated 50 - 100 pages before it happens, and some like Sohrab's visa and Amir's entry into a writing career are resolved with breathtaking ease.  <br /> <br />Even more noticeable are the book's interconnected plot lines - one can practically see them drawn on the written pages. The parallels between Ali/Hassan and Baba/Amir, Hassan and then Sohrab defending Amir from Assef with their slingshots, the kite running and kite wallpaper, Hassan's harelip doubled by Amir's cut lip, Amir's betrayal of Hassan followed by Baba's betrayal of Amir, Amir's being motherless because of her death during his birth paired with Hassan's motherlessness and followed by Soraya's infertility, Baba standing up to the Russian soldier and Amir's standing up to Assef, and on and on. Hosseini's heavy-handed plotting ensures that THE KITE RUNNER has no loose threads, only perfect, closed circles. A world leading to a happily ever after future where all sins are repented, all failings redeemed, and all wrongs vindicated belongs in fairy tales, but hardly in a realistic novel about Afghanistan, of all places.  <br /> <br />THE KITE RUNNER offers good reading entertainment with an eventful plot and plenty of black and white characters set against a cultural backdrop mostly unknown to American readers. It is not a great work of literature. One can hope, however, that Khaled Hosseini has more stories to tell and that his writing craft will evolve with them.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-06
US	37234590	R2Y2KWB74MW4TC	1401352235	574325969	Windows on the World: A Novel	Books	1	50	73	N	N	How Many Ways Can You Say "Awful" in French?	It is nearly impossible to imagine how a book this bad could ever have been published by a major house (Miramax Hyperion) but for the race among fiction writers (Ian McEwan, Jonathan Safran Foer, Art Spigelman) to capitalize on its subject matter - 9/11. For countless reasons, the events of 9/11 should be approached cautiously (or arguably not at all), but certainly not with a work of fiction that would barely qualify as a C in an undergraduate writing class.  <br /> <br />Structurally, WINDOWS ON THE WORLD offers a hypothetical minute-by-minute account of a father and his two sons (ages 7 and 9) who are having a tourist-style breakfast at Windows on the World restaurant on the 107th floor of the WTC on the morning of 9/11. This scenario alternates with observations and reflections in the author's voice, sitting initially at a restaurant atop the highest building in Paris, the Tour Montparnasse, but later flying to post-9/11 New York City via the Concorde to wallow in the tragedy and his own self-pity. This dual track device fails utterly, inserting an endless stream of nattering commentary when the events and characters should be speaking for themselves.  <br /> <br />This book is filled with so many outrageous statements, condescending comments, stereotypical characters, overexplained discussions, Francocentric self-flagellation, and faux American dialog, it would take me 20 or 30 pages to catalog them all. Consider, for example, the small cast of stereotyped characters Beigbeder introduces atop the WTC: a divorced father with a name, Carthew Yorston, that sounds like a sneeze followed by a snort, two precocious but out of control boys, a Puerto Rican waitress, a black security guide who turns out to be Muslim (oh, the irony!), and a bisexual Jew. They are joined by two high finance types involved in an extramarital affair (identified only as the guy in the Kenneth Cole suit and the blonde in Ralph Lauren) who spout a steady stream of incomprehensible Wall Streetjargon (about Enron and Worldcom, of course) and, at their darkest moment, blurt out nonsense like, \\"George Soros, pray for us\\" and \\"Ted Turner, come to our aid.\\" <br /> <br />Perhaps it's best to let WINDOWS ON THE WORLD speak for itself.  <br /> <br />\\"In a moment, they will all be horsemen of the Apocalypse...\\" <br />\\"...a tour of the fish market, just for the smell of it...\\"  <br />\\"In two hours I'll be dead; in a way, I am dead already.\\" <br />\\"Hell lasts an hour and three quarters. As does this book.\\" <br /> \\"American Trash? I'm a redneck, a member of the American Trashcan.\\" <br />\\"...the smear of wet asphalt behind the cleaning trucks looks like the slime left by an aluminum slug on a piece of plywood.\\" <br />\\"Everything important in America is magnolia.\\"  <br />\\"Maybe the Al Qaeda terrorists were simply sick to death of beige, orange uniforms, and the businesslike smile of the waitresses.\\" <br />\\"Windows on the Planes. Windows on the Crash. Windows on the Smoke. Broken Windows.\\" <br />\\"They suffered for 102 minutes, the average running time of a Hollywood film.\\" <br />\\"Kof kof (he coughs).\\" <br />\\"...people were dying of starvation in America as they were in Russia, but those who were dying of starvation in America were free to do so.\\" <br />\\"...later I'd go home drunk in a yellow contraption driven by a Haitian voodoo master.\\" <br />\\"There's very little difference between a toddler's life and a Shakespeare play.\\" <br />\\"...I didn't give a *** about wops [sic] and their homeless, drugged, raped kids with disgusting dung flies all over them...\\" (HUH?) <br />\\"The Tower of Babel was the first attempt at globalization. If, as millions of Americans do, we take Genesis absolutely literally, then God is opposed to globalization.\\" <br />And from 7-year-old David Yorston, \\"...it was dope....it's a real bummer....the whole thing is skank....without having to beg the `rents...Like, duh!\\" <br /> <br />Enough! I'm not even halfway through the book yet, and I've already skipped dozens of others just as bad if not worse. The only reason I read this book cover-to-cover was to wallow in its audacity and sheer dreadfulness, like wandering through a literary disaster zone. Near the end, we're treated to the line, \\"Frankly my dear, I don't give a Saddam!\\" Then, to top it all off, an author's note at the end of the book tells us that some scenes in the book had been revised for the English language edition - to protect our feelings!   <br /> <br />At one point, Beigbeder writes, \\"I feel empty, I want to get smashed...and read books that are not as good as mine.\\" He'll have a very hard time finding anything that qualifies.  <br /> <br />	2005-03-28
US	37234590	RC4S8K3WVFR7P	0743257529	760447173	China, Inc.: How the Rise of the Next Superpower Challenges America and the World	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Somebody Finally Gets It Right about China	I spent most of the period from 2001 - 2004 living and teaching in Suzhou, China, a smallish city by Chinese standards that, in the last decade, has come out of nowhere to have the fourth largest GDP in the country. I have also read dozens of books attempting to describe what's going on in China. Most get parts of the picture right, but many are badly dated. Regardless, no one has done as good a job as Ted Fishman in describing the business and economics of today's China. If you truly want to understand how China's business engine works and how it is changing the rest of the world in ways we have barely begun to recognize, CHINA, INC. is an essential read, and easily the best book published on the subject.     Mr. Fishman approaches his subject matter from a wide variety of informative angles, supporting his arguments with factual data, statistics, and numerous anecdotes, any number of which I recognized from Chinese news reports. He begins with a look at Shanghai's transformation into one of the world's leading cities. He next steps back in time to present an historical perspective on how China's peculiar brand of \\"rule-breaking\\" capitalism came into being, illustrated by a fascinating look at the city of Wenzhou. He traces the rise of Shenzhen in southern China and the growth of the real estate and personal automobile markets. Chapters 6 through 9 are the strongest in the book, detailing China's impact on business in Pekin, Illinois and Rothenburg, Germany, the role of Wal-mart, the global impact of the \\"China price,\\" technology transfer, and product counterfeiting and piracy. Throughout, these topics are illustrated with plentiful stories, specific examples, and commentaries from executives in the effected industries.       Fishman makes it clear that China has become a formidable global competitor, with the potential to become an economic juggernaut. The numbers are enormous, the entrepreneurial drive is remarkable, the educational system is extraordinarily focused a single goal, and the speed of adaptation and ability to capture market share in every industry they tackle are frightening. Combine this with massive government subsidies and a laissez faire attitude with regard to patent and intellectual property rights, and you have the makings of a country in which anything is possible, at the least cost imaginable. China's steady capture of manufacturing jobs from the West, its enormous build-up of American dollar and Treasury bond holdings, its thirst for oil and natural resources, and its steady production of science and engineering graduates create the distinct possibility of a huge international power shift over the next 30 - 50 years. CHINA, INC. presents these arguments clearly and forcefully, in an engaging and very readable manner.     CHINA, INC. is at its best describing the country's entrepreneurial spirit, springing from peasants, small villages, and hungry neo-capitalists starting on a shoestring. Their no-holds-barred drive for economic success and quick payoff leads tens of thousands into every corner of the business world. For example, Fishman illustrates effectively how migrant peasants struggling for a toehold in Shanghai have discovered eBay and the Internet. More significant, he shows how entire Western industries like furniture, buttons, socks, shoes, and Christmas ornaments have been rocked by competition from small-scale Chinese entrepreneurs. No State agency planned and studied these industries, no management consultants prepared market potential reports or competitive analyses, and no governing body stepped in to create rules and regulations. They happened because small businessmen smelled opportunities and pursued them ruthlessly. That's the competition America faces for the next fifty years. CHINA, INC. draws a clear picture of what it looks like and what it portends.     My biggest criticism of CHINA, INC. is that I believe Mr. Fishman has somewhat overstated his case by downplaying China's negatives, of which there are many beyond the obvious ones of rural poverty, wealth imbalance, and industrial pollution (sounds like the U.S. prior to 1940, doesn't it?). First, the country has a totally dysfunctional banking system, burdened by weak controls, massive frauds and embezzlements, and non-performing loans on the order of 40% or more. Second, China's stock markets are nothing more than poorly regulated casinos - it's no coincidence that their stock markets are off by nearly half over the last 3-4 years while their GDP has skyrocketed. Third, the same lack of intellectual property rights protection that enables China to copy almost anything will inhibit its own best talents from creating anything new out of the same fear of counterfeiting. Fourth, China's form of capitalism almost completely lacks a rule of law - contracts are meaningless, courts are unhelpful, and connections matter far more than right or wrong as defined by law. Finally, China stands one day to find itself repeating Japan and Korea's experience once its labor rates begin to rise and manufacturing jobs begin to migrate once again, perhaps to India, or maybe Africa. History has a way of repeating itself in this regard.     Although I found CHINA INC.'s organization a little loose and the material wandering occasionally, I heartily commend Mr. Fishman for pulling a wealth of information and analysis together to draw an appropriately alarming picture of a country we understand too little and ignore too often (just as we once did with Japan). CHINA, INC. is an excellent, fact-filled study of how China is playing the global economic game today, and it is right on target. This book deserves to be read by anyone trying to understand the world economy today, and it should be required reading for everyone in Congress and the White House.	2005-03-23
US	37234590	RQZF68FAUUSBE	037542220X	998595304	Chronicle of a Blood Merchant: A Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	A Moving Story of a Family's Struggles During Mao's Era	Blood is certainly one of the most graphic and potent of literary symbols: a life-sustaining fluid, a product of injury or death, a signal of feminine fertility and virginity, a salable commodity, a gift of life via transfusion, and a genetic and metaphorical bond among children, parents, their extended families, and prospective descendants. Each of these meanings plays a significant role in CHRONICLE OF A BLOOD MERCHANT, Yu Hua's harrowing tale of one father's relentless efforts to survive and provide for his family under the most difficult of circumstances.     Set in a small town in mainland China, CHRONICLE OF A BLOOD MERCHANT follows three decades in the life of Xu Sanguan, a cocoon deliverer in a local silk factory, as he marries Xu Yulan, fathers three children (more of less named One, Two, and Three), learns that he has been cuckolded, is in turn unfaithful to his own wife, and helps his family survive the Cultural Revolution, ruinous famines, the \\"sending down\\" of two sons to the countryside, and the critical illness of his oldest son, the one he has long known is not his own. Along the way, Xu Sanguan learns to sell his blood at a local hospital as a way to raise emergency funds. Symbolically, of course, Yu Hua is portraying the burdens and hypocrisies of a system in which the lowly and honest can only barely survive by resorting to the extreme measure of selling their energy, their strength, and in some cases, their very lives.     This novel works for several reasons. First, the language is simple and direct, almost choppy and childish at times, a reflection of its uneducated protagonists. Second, the author has created a small cast of characters whose fates are inextricably linked to one another, and among whom actions both good and bad eventually create unplanned or unintended consequences. In particular, the relationship between Xu Sanguan, Xu Yulan, their son Yile, Yile's blood father He Xiaoyong, and He's wife, creates a series of alternating and humorous interdependencies. Third, Yu Hua has skillfully recreated the peasant atmosphere of Chinese village life, complete with gossiping and public lamentations, traditions and superstitions, the importance of connections (guanxi, as the Chinese call it) with higher-ups, and horrific misinformation about human health and personal care.     Finally, CHRONICLE OF A DEATH MERCHANT is a story of fatherly devotion and filial piety. Xu Sanguan is so devoted to his family that he nearly sacrifices his own life to ensure theirs. The last fifty pages describe Xu Sanguan's horrifying physical descent to the edge of death, slowly yet so inevitably that I wanted to shout at him to stop. I was reminded of the similar, sick to the stomach sense of dread I felt watching Morgan Spurlock's SUPER SIZE ME. Curiously, one is about eating and intake, while Xu Sanguan's danger arises from the blood he is selling to raise money.     While I would not classify this book as one of China's great novels, CHRONICLE OF A DEATH MERCHANT is an engaging story, sometimes sad and sometimes humorous, filled with memorable characters. Perhaps more important, it offers a biting critique of an ineffectual and often capricious government system, told from the viewpoint of those who understood it least and suffered at its unfeeling hands the most. Intentionally or otherwise, Yu Hua traces the roots of a rampant blood-selling practice in China's poorest provinces that has created an epidemic of HIV and AIDS cases. This is a book well worth reading for anyone interested in Mao's era, in China's current day HIV health crisis, or simply in a heroic family saga.	2005-03-20
US	37234590	R2UBZQDYX36TRW	0618329706	509942691	Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A Six-Star Book, Extremely Great and Incredibly Moving	WOW! On a scale of 1 to 10, this book is definitely an 11. I was hooked from the very first page of this wonderful new novel. More than any book I've read in recent years, I was sorry to see it end. Jonathan Safran Foer has transformed the events of September 11, 2001 into a marvelous story of love and loss and hope, of a quest for meaning in a life filled with random events. It deals as well with the importance of family, the heartbreaking repetition of history's senseless tragedies, and ultimately our strange interconnectedness with everyone and everything around us. EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE is a tale of fathers and sons, of last chances, lost chances, and regrets, of feelings never spoken, messages never heard, and letters never delivered. Foer's story will make you laugh out loud one minute and bring tears to your eyes the next. And through it all, the plot twists and turns in remarkable ways, so that nothing is ever what it seems. This is a book so rich in story line and images, there simply isn't room here to tell it all.    The basic story centers on Oskar Schell, the precocious young son of Thomas Schell, a lawyer turned jeweler who died in the collapse of the World Trade Center. When Oskar finds a mysterious key inside a blue vase in his dead father's closet, enclosed in an envelope labeled with the single word \\"Black,\\" he begins an unlikely quest to find the lock that fits the key, convinced it will reveal unknown truths about his father. He travels throughout the city for months to meet every person named Black in the phone book, only to discover that he had found the answer almost from the beginning.     Interspersed with Oskar's story is that of his seemingly distant lawyer mom and her friend Ron, his paternal grandmother (who lives across the street) and the mute grandfather (also named Thomas Schell) he has never met, both of whom grew up together in Dresden and survived that city's World War II firebombing. Their stories diverge and converge, eventually merging with Oskar's quest in a deliciously unpredictable fashion. Throw in appearances from a reclusive neighbor named Mr. Black, a freewheeling limo driver named Gerald, a woman named Ruth who lives on the observation deck of the Empire State Building, a Hiroshima survivor, a psychiatrist aptly named Dr. Fein, Shakespeare's Hamlet, and the astrophysicist Stephen Hawking, and the result is a magical collection of characters and events that amazingly come together in a coherent story of the new millennium.     EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE is filled with wonderful images. Doorknobs and keyholes have multiple meanings. One-word biographies are matched against one-word obituary summaries. Books serve as walls, diaries, and means of communication, while telephones become typewriters for the mute. Time is everpresent, measured precisely but flowing loosely, frozen in images and recorded voices just as the book's characters wish to freeze of reverse time itself. A charming fable about Manhattan's lost sixth borough links Central Park to a myth of childhood dreams. And then there are Oskar's incessant inventions: his birdseed shirt, an ambulance that sends messages to everyone the patient knows as it passes their windows, the gun whose handle senses when you are angry so it won't fire, buildings that raise and lower themselves instead of using elevators, and best of all, his pillows that funnel everyone's tears into the reservoir in Central Park (when something really bad happened, a loud siren would tell everyone to go to Central Park to put sandbags around the reservoir).    Beyond the magical storytelling however, Jonathan Foer breaks the boundaries of the traditional novel form with pages filled with photographs of hands, birds, doorknobs, keys, doors, crying elephants, fingerprints, the backs of heads, and stars; pages containing just a single sentence of a few words; pages filled with numbers representing conversation encoded on a telephone handset; pages whose frenetic storytelling ends with overtyping so dense the page melts into blackness; and pages depicting a falling body outside the World Trade Center whose final presence depicts our universal wish about that terrible day.     EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE is storytelling of the highest order. It is tragic yet funny, heartrending yet heartwarming, quirky yet deeply serious, random within a greater plan. It demonstrates powerfully that the only limits of the novel form are those we just assume are there. If any book deserves a Pulitzer Prize, this is it. I can't recommend this beautiful parable of life strongly enough.	2005-03-14
US	37234590	R2GJNIND8FP5NY	0802136346	166854560	Being There	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Magnificently Wicked Satire, as True Today as Ever	BEING THERE is an absolute gem, a book worth reading at least once a decade to take a sounding of the world around you. In the childlike, tabula rasa of a simple-minded gardener named Chance, Kosinski has created a complex character who is both sponge and mirror. Out of \\"Chance, the gardener\\" comes Chauncey Gardiner, a man whose entire existence in the home and employment of the Old Man has been framed by what he has seen and absorbed from television and learned from his simple gardening job. Unable to read or write, his every action is refracted through the lens of his television \\"experience.\\" Yet when Chance is unexpectedly released to the world at large as a result of the Old Man's (arguably his father's) death, he becomes a walking mirror, silenting reflecting back at everyone he meets that which they most want to hear and believe about him, and about themselves. More than Woody Allen's Zelig or Winston Groom's (and Tom Hanks's) Forrest Gump, Chance is the perfect empty vessel, the ultimate \\"other\\" whom we can each mold into exactly what we most want him to be. <br /> <br />A \\"chance\\" coincidence lands an impeccably-dressed Chauncey in the hands of an aging but wealthy and influential financier named Benjamin Rand and his wife, EE, and their social and political connections soon put Chauncey in contact with the President, foreign ambassadors, television and the press. Gardiner's answers to questions draw upon his gardening knowledge, making them sound like profound parables and metaphors with unusually direct aptness and an almost Biblical depth of meaning. His listeners of course hear what they want to hear, and soon Chauncey Gardiner is a national celebrity and rising star in the world of commerce and even politics.  <br /> <br />Reading BEING THERE today, it seems hard to believe that Jerzy Kosinski wrote this wickedly funny short parable back in 1970. He was remarkably, albeit sadly, prescient. Consider the American situation today: vicarious thrill-seeking(Fear Factor, The Survivor) and ersatz depictions of reality (The Apprentice, The Loser, The Bachelor, The Contender) fill our television screens, we elevate the most brainless, talentless, or shameless people (Paris Hilton, Jessica Simpson, William Hung, Loreena Bobbit, Michael Jackson, Scott Peterson) to celebrity status, we look to pop cult advisors for guidance in our personal and cultural lives (Dr. Phil, Dr. Ruth, Oprah, Martha Stewart), and we elect (twice!) a President infamous for his intellectual dullness, lack of curiosity, ignorance of facts, disdain for newspapers and reading, and utter incapacity to string three spontaneous sentences together to express a meaningful original thought.  <br /> <br />If you don't believe BEING THERE remains a dead-on satire of American life and political culture, refer to Ron Suskind's discussion with a senior official in the Bush Administration (New York Times, 10/17/04) who asserted that guys like him (Suskind), opponents of this Administration, live \\"in what we call the reality-based community,'' which he defined as people who ''believe that solutions emerge from your judicious study of discernible reality.'' ''That's not the way the world really works anymore,'' he continued. ''We're an empire now, and when we act, we create our own reality.\\" Sadly, Jerzy Kosinski died in 1991, but wherever he is, he's undoubtedly laughing his head off.  <br /> <br />Chauncey Gardiner for President in 2008?  <br />	2005-03-10
US	37234590	R30X9PQLV37YWN	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Booker SurPrize	Having previously read ATONEMENT and BLACK DOGS and loving them both, I approached AMSTERDAM with a sense of delicious expectation. After all, if this was Ian McEwan's Booker Prize winning novel, it must have been sensational to have topped those other two. I was sadly mistaken and even more sadly disappointed, although the book is a curiously entertaining read in its own way.     AMSTERDAM tells the story of four men whose fates are intertwined through their relationships with the recently deceased (and lightly crafted) Molly Lane. There's her cuckolded and vengeful husband George Lane, the somewhat renowned composer Clive Linley, the pragmatic newspaper editor (of an improbably named newspaper called The Judge) and Linley's best friend Vernon Halliday, and the up-and-coming ultraconservative politician Julian Garmony. With Molly's unexpected passing from a rapid onset degenerative disease, her husband and three lovers face their own mortality and their own scruples (or lack thereof). George uses incriminating photos to exact revenge against Molly's lovers, while Linley and Halliday both experience vague pains and night sweats while they strive to achieve success at the peaks of their respective careers.     This mnage a cinq whose only female participant is dead provides an intriguing setup for his story, but McEwan lets it all slide away into spitefulness, cheap theatrics, an apparent half-descent into some form of creative madness on Clive's part, and an outlandish mutual murder ending so improbable that it seems created as an expedient means to put the novel to sleep. The result is a novel that reads nicely but feels overplotted with characters who are underdeveloped, wooden caricatures of the amoral, ladder-climbing businessman, the tortured artist, and the greasy, holier-than-thou political demagogue. Julian and Clive both face decisions of enormous moral consequences that effectively define the quality of their souls, but their choices come across as too easily rationalized and too lightly dismissed. In Clive's case, McEwan converts him from modestly empathetic to despicable, an artist with a technician's heart but without a human soul.    Not to say after all this that AMSTERDAM is without merit. The writing flows easily and accelerates from a low-key story about death and friendship into a macabre tale of revenge exacted by increasingly drastic measures. McEwan's descriptions of the process of musical composition are excellent, almost sufficient for us to hear the sounds of Linley's \\"millennium concert.\\" In the final analysis, however, McEwan's 20th Century fin de siecle take on the state of the press, the arts, and politics in the United Kingdom is extraordinarily dark and depressing. One can almost imagine the author paraphrasing the postcard Clive Linley sends to his ex-friend Vernon Halliday, \\"You all deserve to be dead.\\" That AMSTERDAM won the 1998 Booker Prize may say almost as much about the state of cultural affairs in the UK.	2005-03-09
US	37234590	R3DAV8FJHX6RZ3	0060005688	267833178	The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less	Books	4	25	27	N	N	An Interesting Discussion of Choice and Unhappiness	Jimmy Carter was lampooned for talking about the American \\"malaise,\\" yet everyone acknowledges its existence. As the American gross domestic product has doubled over the last thirty years, the number of Americans who describe themselves as \\"very happy\\" has declined. The incidence of depression has grown to the point where 7.5% of Americans experience an episode of clinical depression before the age of fourteen, double the rate of a decade ago. The suicide rate among college students has tripled. We've had children shooting children in primary schools and in high schools like Columbine, divorce rates that make failed marriages more likely than successful ones, and sales of 50 million diet books per year accompanied by widespread anorexia and bulimia. In the midst of unparalleled plenty, Americans are remarkably unhappy.    In THE PARADOX OF CHOICE, Barry Schwartz proposes overabundant choice as a partial explanation for these disturbing trends. In prose that varies from casual and familiar to moderately academic (but never to the point of being difficult), Schwartz dissects the richness of America's consumption-driven society from a psychologist's viewpoint. He contends that too much choice is as bad, or worse, than too few choices and sometimes the same as no choice at all. We face more choices than ever before: more brands of toothpaste or cereal, more options on our cars and computers, more telephone calling plans, more types of vacations, more TV channels, more of everything.     Having so many choices in every aspect of life paralyzes those whom Schjwartz calls maximizers, those who invariably seek the \\"best\\" option for every decision. They face untold hours comparing alternatives and can never be happy even after they make their decisions because of other or newer alternatives, their own choice failing to meet their expectations, comparison with others, and adaptation effects which naturally lessen their happiness over time. More fortunate are the \\"satisficers,\\" those who are content with a good enough solution, yet even they can suffer the same psychic disappointments.     Each chapter of THE PARADOX OF CHOICE examines a different aspect of the \\"choice overload\\" problem. Schwartz introduces us to obscure terms like hedonic adaptation, hedonic zero point, and prospect theory, but his explanations are clear, backed up by helpful examples and references to underlying research and studies. For those of us without undergraduate degrees in Psychology, the author provides a gentle introduction to, and fascinating tour of, the psychologies of decision-making and (un)happiness in a consumer society.     While I found much of this book thought provoking, I have two significant criticisms. First, the writing at times feels repetitive and even over-explained, as if this was really an Atlantic Monthly or Psychology Today article forcibly stretched to book length. Second, even granting that the book is pop psychology, many of the author's closing recommendations are laughably simplistic, suggesting that people can simply turn off the same behaviors he has spent the previous 200 pages explaining as basic human nature. It's as if a book about alcoholism ended with cures to \\"just stop drinking\\" or \\"don't go near places where you can get a drink.\\" Telling people to write down every night five things that happened that day for which they were grateful sounds like Dr. Phil coaching Mary Poppins out of her blues.     For readers who want to understand why having more and more seems to bring less and less satisfaction, this book will provide food for thought. As a sociocultural exploration of middle class malaise in the midst of abundance, THE PARADOX OF CHOICE is itself a good choice. As a guide for how to cope with the problem, better to look elsewhere for answers. After all, followers of Buddhism have known for over 2,500 years that material possessions are a major source of human suffering, and for many of the same reasons Schwartz presents in this book.	2005-03-07
US	37234590	R1GHZBDHE638UO	0143034901	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	3	389	454	N	N	How You See It Depends on What You Bring to It	That it's so tempting to read SHADOW OF THE WIND is a tribute to clever marketing. Comparisons to Marquez, Borges, and Dickens mix with gushing tributes from Stephen King and references to best-sellerdom in Spain. The literary come-on is hard to resist.<br /><br />In the end however, the way you respond to this book will depend on what expectations you bring to it. If you anticipate a reading experience worthy of those heady literary comparisons, you'll be sorely disappointed - Zafon is little closer to Garcia Marquez than Stephen King is. The closest he comes is having the temerity to give a minor character, a boyfriend of Beatriz Aguilar's, the family name Buendia, the prolific clan from ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF SOLITUDE. If you plan, however, on a fantastical romp through a mid-century Barcelona converted wholesale into a gothic swamp of ghosts, shadows, haunted houses, malevolent, revenge-seeking, jilted lovers, swooning virginal maidens, improbably picaresque characters, unbelievable coincidences, parallelisms, and twists of fate, and a host of pseudo-Freudian relationships, you'll love every minute.<br /><br />The story line of SHADOW OF THE WIND is so complex and convoluted, it's nearly impossible to relate in less space than the book's own 487 pages. Suffice to say, the premise is drawn from the search of a teenaged boy named Daniel for the truth about the fate of Julian Carax, the author of a mystery story (also named \\"Shadow of the Wind\\") that Daniel has adopted and read after his bibliophilic father takes him on a \\"coming of age\\" excursion to the aptly metaphorical Cemetary of Forgotten Books. Carax has apparently written a number of other books, all of them commercial failures, yet someone has been traveling Europe to find and burn every extant copy of Carax's works.<br /><br />With twists and turns that would make the Minotaur's head spin in his Labyrinth, Zafon spins multiple parallel tales of Platonic love, blind love (both literal and figurative), failed love, enduring love, filial love, forbidden love, and unrequited love. Through it all looms the mystery of Julian Carax. Is he alive or dead? Who is burning his books, and why? Who is the char-faced phantom? Why does the evil Fumero seek such hate-filled revenge? Will young Daniel ever find his true love?<br /><br />Zafon's book could be easily parodied or brushed aside as little more than a Barbara Cartland romance, but his writing is better than that despite being too often over the top. From the opening page where Daniel describes his mother's death as \\"a deafening silence I had not learned to stifle with words,\\" Zafon mixes searing images and thoughtful observations with engagingly quirky characters such as Fermin Romero de Torres who capture the reader's imagination and heart like 20th century Sancho Panzas and Dulcineas to Daniel's idealistically questing Quixote.<br /><br />Unfortunately, these pluses are offset by unrelenting and heavy-handed atmospherics in which every page is marked by clouds, shadows, mists, flickering candles, twilights, smoke, rubble, ruins, twisted heaps, blood, and \\"glutinous darkness,\\" and the like. Florid prose abounds: \\"The white marble was scored with black tears of dampness that looked like blood dripping out of the clefts left by the engraver's chisel. They lay side by side, like chained maledictions.\\" Readers must also contend with two laughably miraculous conceptions, both occurring after first night trysts (a tribute perhaps to the ineffable virility of Spanish males?), and an unfortunately anachronistic request by a Barcelona doctor in 1954 for a \\"brain scan\\" of an injured Fermin (page 288).<br /><br />Net net, SHADOW OF THE WINDS is entertaining escapism with modest literary pretensions. Enjoy it for what it is, but don't expect it to be more than it is.filial love, forbidden love, and unrequited love. Through it all looms the mystery of Julian Carax. Is he alive or dead? Who is burning his books, and why? Who is the char-faced phantom? Why does the evil Fumero seek such hate-filled revenge? Will young Daniel ever find his true love?     Zafon's book could be easily parodied or brushed aside as little more than a Barbara Cartland romance, but his writing is better than that despite being too often over the top. From the opening page where Daniel describes his mother's death as \\"a deafening silence I had not learned to stifle with words,\\" Zafon mixes searing images and thoughtful observations with engagingly quirky characters such as Fermin Romero de Torres who capture the reader's imagination and heart like 20th century Sancho Panzas and Dulcineas to Daniel's idealistically questing Quixote.     Unfortunately, these pluses are offset by unrelenting and heavy-handed atmospherics in which every page is marked by clouds, shadows, mists, flickering candles, twilights, smoke, rubble, ruins, twisted heaps, blood, and \\"glutinous darkness,\\" and the like. Florid prose abounds: \\"The white marble was scored with black tears of dampness that looked like blood dripping out of the clefts left by the engraver's chisel. They lay side by side, like chained maledictions.\\" Readers must also contend with two laughably miraculous conceptions, both occurring after first night trysts (a tribute perhaps to the ineffable virility of Spanish males?), and an unfortunately anachronistic request by a Barcelona doctor in 1954 for a \\"brain scan\\" of an injured Fermin (page 288).     Net net, SHADOW OF THE WINDS is entertaining escapism with modest literary pretensions. Enjoy it for what it is, but don't expect it to be more than it is.	2005-03-05
US	37234590	R1SRAG0Q1JMQII	140136666X	545636567	My Life as Emperor	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Kingdom's Fall, an Emperor's Rebirth	Along with Mo Yan and Gao Xingjian, Su Tong is widely regarded as one of mainland China's premier novelists, and with good reason. MY LIFE AS EMPEROR, the third of Su Tong's works to be published in English (after RAISE THE RED LANTERN and RICE), tells a brilliant and compelling tale of fate, decay and decadence, and palace intrigue fueled by the whims of a fourteen-year-old and his manipulating grandmother, a figure strongly reminiscent of China's famous Qing Dynasty dragon empress, Cixi. Yet within this bleak context of impending doom, the author gives us a phoenix tale, the story of an unlikely rebirth into a life of peace and contemplation.     MY LIFE AS EMPEROR is set in an unknown place at an indistinct time, although the author closes by locating the renamed imperial capitol as Changzhou in Jiangsu Province, not far from his own Suzhou birthplace. At the death of his Emperor father, fourteen-year-old Duanbai - the fifth of his father's sons - is unexpectedly called by his grandmother, Madame Huangfu, to assume the throne of the Xie Empire. Sun Xin, an alchemist and his deceased father's attendant - now reduced to madness - proclaims that calamity will soon befall the Empire. And it indeed does as Duanbai's ascendancy sets off a chain of palace intrigues among his half brothers.     Duanbai himself is feckless and capricious, immature and utterly unprepared for his responsibilities. Duanbai's sleep is filled with night demons, and he is given to acts of pettiness and stunning viciousness alternating with acts of deep sympathy and love. The only person he can trust, his mentor Juekong, is banished from the capitol to live out his life as a monk on Bitter Bamboo Mountain. He befriends a palace eunuch named Swallow and falls deeply in love with a concubine, Lady Hui, but his empire is beset by enemies from within and without. He ultimately loses his throne to his oldest brother, Duanwen, and is banished from the capitol to live life as a commoner as his punishment. The balance of the novel tells the story of Duanbai's life after his fall from power.    Written in 1992, MY LIFE AS EMPEROR offers an engrossing story line filled with memorable characters and fascinating insights into imperial life. As in his other works, Su Tong can be brutally cruel and explicit, but wondrously lyrical and richly symbolic. As he suggests in his Preface, this story is a dream from within the dream world in which he lives and writes. It is a dream filled most notably with birds and bird images: the foreboding white herons on the book's opening page, his eunuch Swallow, Lady Hui's Singing Oriole Pavilion, the birdlike feeling of tightrope walking, and the Double Eagle crest of the invading Peng Empire among others.     From young Emperor Duanbai's favorite cricket cages to his escapades with tightroping walking, MY LIFE AS EMPEROR is a tragic story of unasked for imprisonment and deeply sought freedom. In the end, stark military power prevails in the public sphere, but the wisdom of Confucius' ANALECTS provides the one true way to peace. Sadly, the path to Bitter Bamboo Mountain is littered with mistakes, needless suffering, and tragedy. Life is bitter, indeed.	2005-02-23
US	37234590	R2VYH3QBBGVLIR	0060761393	493597683	Mr. China: A Memoir	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A Cautionary Tale about Making Lemonade from Lemons	The title of this book, MR. CHINA, refers to the notion in the early 1990's that many Westerner businessmen wanted to be the first to get inside China's nascent boom, to become a \\"master of the universe\\" with respect to the People's Republic. While the winner is ostensibly the author's mysterious business partner, known only as Pat, the author lays his own claim to that award. By the end of this book, however, it's quite clear that no Westerner could ever be \\"Mr. China,\\" and that those who chased earliest and hardest missed out almost completely on the real blossoming of mainland China's relationship with Western business. The author's near miss bicycling through a dark tunnel, intended as a metaphor about the emerging China, seems far more apt as a metaphor for his own decade of hopeless running in place.  <br /> <br />In MR. CHINA, Tim Clissold tells a remarkable story of some of the first Western business forays into China during the 1990's. The model seemed simple enough - bring Wall Street to the People's Republic by raising huge sums of capital in an investment fund, trade that capital for majority shares in going businesses that seemed promising, infuse them with new technology and management practices, then buy up weaker competitors and consolidate them into massive, unbeatable players in the domestic and export markets. Of course, it was all far easier on paper than it was in reality, and that is the crux of Mr. Clissold's story.  <br /> <br />By any measure, Clissold's tale is a businessperson's nightmare, a sort of Wall Street meets the Wild, Wild East. Politics infects every transaction, rules and contracts are broken as fast as they are made and signed, paperwork is a mess, accounting principles are nonexistent, money disappears or moves from one bank account to another to hide it, local managers lie, embezzle, or compete against their own employer, and everyone works hardest when they are busy lining their own pockets. Attempts to fire managers spark massive lawsuits, beatings, and even riots. Clissold spends nearly all his time putting out fires, holding off his investment fund managers, arguing with Chinese managers he has fired, and pleading his case to judges, government officials, and Party representatives. The harder he works, the more the fund's companies fail until his own health suffers.  <br /> <br />Tim Clissold tells his story in a surprisingly matter-of-fact tone; he deserves to be far angrier and more cynical. He writes in an entertaining and engaging style, mixing a sort of detached amusement about events with some interesting cultural background. His Chinese managers and officials come across a bit too stereotyped and some of his background is clichd, but those shortcomings are far outweighed by his outrageous exploits. The only false note occurs in the final two paragraphs of the book when the author attempts - badly and unnecessarily - to soften his message and rationalize the dishonest and outlandish behaviors he has spent the previous 248 pages describing.  <br /> <br />While Western companies have almost universally eschewed the joint venture approach in China, MR. CHINA nevertheless offers valuable insights about doing business on the mainland. From my own three or four years' observation living in China, I can say that much of Clissold's cautionary advice applies today. Agreements and contracts are still more symbolic than enforceable, adhered to only if and when it suits Chinese interests. I recommend this book highly for both its entertainment value as well as its lessons learned.   <br /> <br />	2005-02-19
US	37234590	RO9COA57K3WT3	0743254805	834074263	No Place to Hide	Books	4	119	120	N	N	It Can Happen Here, and It Already Is Happening	You've rented a car to drive from Connecticut to Virginia. You head south on I-95, but at times, your speed creeps up to 80 mph like many of the drivers around you. Finally, you stop to buy gas but your credit card is rejected at the pump. The reason? The company who rented you the car has been monitoring your driving in real time. Not only that, they've fined you three times, at $150 per violation, for speeding, and already deducted it from your credit card. Sound impossible? It's not, and Robert O'Harrow's NO PLACE TO HIDE describes how car rental companies can do it, and have already done it.  <br /> <br />Perhaps you have never heard of Acxiom, Seisint, ChoicePoint, HNC Software, TransCore, Searchspace, and Verint? Well, that's just the way those companies want it. And they are just some of the companies who know all about you - your name, address, and social security number, every place you've ever lived, your credit histories, who your friends are, what you say and do on the Internet, where you travel, even your faces, fingerprints, and DNA. In the interest of catching terrorists and preventing terrorism, federal and local law enforcement agencies have increasingly turned to these companies for help - all conveniently situated outside the privacy laws and Patriot Act restrictions and free to collect virtually any information they can lay their hands on. The result is a boom in the \\"total information awareness\\" business that is creating a world of commercial \\"big brothers.\\" It is a world about which most Americans are blissfully, and foolishly, unaware.  <br /> <br />Faster machines, bigger databases, more networking, and microminiaturization to the level of flea-sized RFID chips and \\"smart dust\\" will only make these systems more and more pervasive. But as O'Harrow repeatedly demonstrates, mistakes get made and innocent people's lives are ruined without recourse. One of the strengths of NO PLACE TO HIDE is the author's retelling of nightmarish occurrences thatvictimized innocent American citizens, stories that resound with the eerie randomness and facelessness of Kafka's THE TRIAL. The author points out as well that system missions creep from anti-terrorism to criminal behavior to ... what? Furthermore, he demonstrates that these systems are so uncontrolled an open-ended in their use, law enforcement personnel can use them for any reason whatsoever, even for personal reasons or for personal gain. As O'Harrow quotes one sheriff's deputy from Michigan, \\"There isn't anybody, anywhere in law enforcement, that doesn't check people out. If they say they don't I'd stake you a hundred that they're lying.\\"   <br /> <br />NO PLACE TO HIDE is not without shortcomings that render it a 4-star rating rather than 5 stars. To begin with, O'Harrow's writing style is a bit tedious, employing more or less the same dramatic and illustrative devices in each chapter. As a result, the book feels longer and more repetitive than it really is. Second, by striving mightily to stay even-handed, the author creates an odd distance to subject matter that should be raising his hackles and creating a greater sense of outrage or dread. Third, the book is so full of little-known company names, products and services, and governmental agencies, they tend to blend into a sort of surveillance industry soup. A few well-conceived charts or diagrams would have been invaluable in sorting out the players. Finally, the book ends without so much as a word on what should be done to bring the post-9/11, Patriot Act-inspired information and surveillance crusade back under some semblance of citizen control.  <br /> <br />Nevertheless, it's fair to say that O'Harrow's book is indeed a harrowing look into a 1984-ish, MINORITY REPORT future. Democrat or Republican, liberal or conservative, you're likely to find much to disturb you in this eye-opening book. NO PLACE TO HIDE outlines the framework for an America few of us would knowingly choose, evidence (if any more was needed) that Osama bin Laden's 9/11 plan succeeded far beyond anything he could possibly have dreamed. After all, could he ever have imagined being able to turn us so aggressively against ourselves? Or, to quote Ben Franklin in what is probably the best sentence in the book, \\"Those who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety deserves neither liberty nor safety.\\" When are we finally going to wake up from our 9/11 stupor and heed Mr. Franklin? Perhaps NO PLACE TO HIDE is the alarm we need. <br /> <br />	2005-02-13
US	37234590	R3A9IZQNNM9W3K	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	2545	2641	N	N	I Once Caught a Bengal Tiger This-s-s-s Big	With over 1250 reviews already registered for LIFE OF PI, I first thought there could be nothing more to say about this marvelous novel. But after scanning the most recent 100 reviews, I began to wonder what book many of those reviewers had read. Had I relied on 98 of those reviews, I would have expected a far different book than the one I actually read.     Let's begin with what LIFE OF PI isn't. It's not a Man against Nature survival story. It's not a story about zoos or wild animals or animal husbandry. It's not ROBINSON CRUSOE or SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON. It's not a literary version of CASTAWAY or OPEN WATER, and it's not a \\"triumph against all odds, happily ever after\\" rescue story. To classify it as such would be like classifying THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA as a story about a poor fisherman or MOBY DICK as a sea story. Or THE TRIAL as a courtroom drama, THE PLAGUE as a story of an epidemic, HEART OF DARKNESS as a story about slavery, or ANIMAL FARM as an animal adventure.    Martel's story line is already well-known: a fifteen-year-old boy, the son of a zookeeper in Pondicherry, India survives a shipwreck several days out of Manila. He is the lone human survivor, but his lifeboat is occupied by a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker, an injured zebra, a hyena, and an orangutan. In relatively short order and true Darwinian fashion, their numbers are reduced to just two: the boy Piscene Molitor Patel, and the tiger, Richard Parker. By dint of his zoo exposure and a fortuitously positioned tarpaulin, Pi (as he is called) manages to establish his own territory on the lifeboat and even gains alpha dominance over Richard Parker. At various points in their 227-day ordeal, Pi and the tiger miss being rescued by an oil tanker, meet up with another shipwreck survivor, and discover an extraordinary algae island before finally reaching safety.     When Pi retells the entire story to two representatives of the Japanese Ministry of Transport searching for the cause of the sinking, they express deep disbelief, so he offers them a second, far more mundane but believable story that parallels the first one. They can choose to believe the more fantastical first one despite its seeming irrationality (Pi is, after all, an irrational number) and its necessary leap of faith, or they can accept the second, far more rational version, more heavily grounded in our everyday experiences.     LIFE OF PI is an allegory, the symbolic expression of a deeper meaning through a tale acted out by humans, animals, and in this case, even plant life. Yann Martel has crafted a magnificently unlikely tale involving zoology and botany, religious experience, and ocean survival skills to explore the meaning of stories in our lives, whether they are inspired by religion to explain the purpose of life or generated by our own psyches as a way to understand and interpret the world around us.     Martel employs a number of religious themes and devices to introduce religion as one of mankind's primary filters for interpreting reality. Pi's active adoption and participation in Hinduism, Islam, and Christianity establish him as a character able to relate his story through the lens of the world's three major religions. Prayer and religious references abound, and his adventures bring to mind such Old Testament scenes as the Garden of Eden, Daniel and the lion's den, the trials of Job, and even Jonah and the whale. Accepting Pi's survival story as true, without supporting evidence, is little different than accepting New Testament stories about Jesus. They are matters of faith, not empiricism.    In the end, however, LIFE OF PI takes a broader view. All people are storytellers, casting their experiences and even their own life events in story form. Martel's message is that all humans use stories to process the reality around them, from the stories that comprise history to those that explain the actions and behaviors of our families and friends. We could never process the chaotic streamof events from everyday life without stories to help us categorize and compartmentalize them. Yet we all choose our own stories to accomplish this - some based on faith and religion, some based on empiricism and science. The approach we choose dictates our interpretation of the world around us.     LIFE OF PI bears a faint resemblance to the movie BIG FISH, also a story about storytelling and how we understand and rationalize our own lives through tales both mundane and tall.  Martel's book is structured as a story within a story within a story, planned and executed in precisely 100 chapters as a mathematical counterpoint to the endlessly irrational and nonrepeating value of pi. The book is alternately harrowing and amusing, deeply rational and scientific but wildly mystical and improbable. It is also hugely entertaining and highly readable, as fluid as the water in which Pi floats. Anyone who enjoys literature as a vehicle for contemplating the human condition should find in LIFE OF PI a delicious treat.	2005-02-09
US	37234590	R2T8NOIC4PML5Z	1893554538	685129629	Class Warfare: Besieged Schools, Bewildered Parents, Betrayed Kids and the Attack on Excellence	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Rather One-Sided, but Needs to Be Read by All Sides	The day before I wrote this review, New York Newsday published a telling story about education in New York City. Teachers in multiple subject areas were nearing open revolt over being forced to adopt the latest pedagogical fad, something called the \\"workshop model\\" that limits instructors to just ten minutes of direct instruction each period. Students are then supposed to work in groups for 25 minutes, after which the teacher is granted a five-minute closing.  In some schools, administrators were actually \\"writing teachers up\\" for not adhering to the workshop model, the equivalent of a formal reprimand.  <br /> <br />How can anyone teach chemistry or physics or math with just ten minutes of daily lecture time? Martin Rochester would no doubt happily cite New York's implementation of the \\"workshop model\\" as another instance of progressive miseducation. In his book CLASS WARFARE, Rochester takes on the progressive education establishment, represented in large part by school boards and university schools of education. In the author's view, the war is between traditionalist parents and progressive educators, and he sees the parents (and their children) losing most of the battles.  <br /> <br />Rochester draws heavily on first-hand experience as an activist parent in the Clayton school district, near St. Louis, where he estimates he has attended 275 out of 280 school board meetings since 1988. He also bases his arguments on observations of students' work at University of Missouri - St. Louis, where he is a professor of political science. Over the course of five core chapters, he tackles the big issues of modern pre-collegiate education: ability grouping (or tracking), multiple intelligences theory, the self-esteem movement, \\"back to basics\\" versus fuzzy math and whole language instruction, and the teacher-as-facilitator model of constructivist education. In each case, he sees these approaches as lowering standards and expectations, teaching to the bottom and suppressingthe top, and avoiding conflict and accountability. Rochester approaches each topic with an entertaining and informative mixture of published sources, expert opinion, and personal anecdotes.  <br /> <br />CLASS WARFARE contains some powerful and important messages about the American public school system. Having said that, it is important to note that his message comes in a badly flawed package. To begin with, Rochester's approach is one-sided in the extreme, as if all progressive ideas were equally deleterious to American education, without any redeeming qualities. Having taught math in a New York City high school for six years, and being a traditionalist myself, I can say with absolute certainty that such a position is wrong.  <br /> <br />Second, the author's tone is far too cynical, packed with bitter sarcasm, ad hominem attacks, and nonsensical slippery slope arguments that weaken his case. Instead of the balanced critical voice of a Diane Ravitch, Rochester comes off as a barely subdued version of Rush Limbaugh or Bill O'Reilly. Consider for example, his dismissal of Rousseau's views of pedagogy by accusing the eighteenth century philosopher of \\"abandoning all five of his children while they were infants,\\" a typically Limbaugh-style ad hominem attack. Or his childishly petty categorization of a statement by Bob Clapp, an instructional technology specialist at U of M - St. Louis, as \\"clap-trap.\\" Or, \\"if NCTM had told these folks to jump off a cliff, they would have done it, but not before telling us what a wonderful idea it was.\\" Or that \\"some of the people behind these reforms may well have been hit in the head by one dodgeball too many when they were youngsters....\\" Or his corny adoption of the name \\"Deep Rote\\" to identify his insider source in the St. Louise school district. <br /> <br />Third, after spending seven chapters trashing every progressive notion about education from the last fifty or more years, Rochester's sudden call in Chapter 8 for a \\"balancedpedagogical paradigm\\" stands in sharp contrast to the preceding 220 pages of his book. More insidiously, his solution includes a strong but undefended recommendation for school vouchers, not on the grounds of pedagogy, but on the democratic grounds of increased choice. Perhaps his real agenda sneaks out in this last chapter when he (inadvertently?) refers to public schools as \\"government schools\\" (page 236) and when he says on page 227 that public schools \\"are likely to remain the primary educational service provider in America for years to come.\\" Likely? One can hardly escape the sense that Rochester would prefer otherwise.  <br /> <br />Prospective readers should take note that Encounter Books is a highly Conservative publisher, having produced attack books on Hillary Clinton, Noam Chomsky, and most recently, the environmentalist Judi Bari. Encounter is backed by the right wing Bradley Foundation (financial supporter of the classic right-wing smear book, THE REAL ANITA HILL by David Brock as well as THE BELL CURVE) and the Olin Foundation, among others. Nevertheless, many Conservative views on education have merit, and our national education system needs a healthy debate between traditionalist and progressive positions.  <br /> <br />Despite its faults, I strongly recommend CLASS WARFARE. Read Martin Rochester's book with a grain of salt, and then do as he has done - attend your community's next Board of Education meeting.  <br /> <br />	2005-02-04
US	37234590	R3FQCNFF21UI3F	1400043662	478155730	Kafka on the Shore A novel	Books	4	20	23	N	N	A Bizarre but Thought-Provoking Dance on the Edge	The title alone, KAFKA ON THE SHORE, signals that what's inside is out of the ordinary, and it most certainly is. Haruki Murakami has filled this 436-page novel with a mysterious object in the sky, talking cats and an alter-ego black crow, an old man who sleeps for forty hours at a stretch, a hemophiliac hermaphrodite librarian, \\"concepts\\" who appear in the form of Johnny Walker and Colonel Sanders, ghosts, leeches raining from the sky, a giant slug that inhabits human bodies, and a magical stone portal to an earthly Limbo deep in the forest. Toss in some Beethoven and Haydn, Adolph Eichmann, Napoleon's invasion of Russia, Oedipus Rex, the Trojan princess Cassandra, The Tale of Genji, the Arabian Nights, and American jazz and rock music, and the result is a cultural rollercoaster ride through a sort of secular, pop mysticism.  <br /> <br />The story line alternates between two distinct threads. The odd-numbered chapters trace the coming of age escapades of Kafka Tamura, a fifteen-year-old high school dropout and runaway. Kafka is preternaturally mature and unusually self-disciplined for a dropout, but his childhood has been marked by the sudden departure of his mother and sister and the upbringing of a cold and distant father. He encounters a series of sexual adventures on his sojourns, complicated by a bizarre connection to his father's stabbing death and his apparent completion of the Oedipal triangle by sleeping with an older woman who might be his mother.  <br /> <br />The second story line involves Satoru Nakata, an aging man-child who collapsed as a youth into a sudden sleep along with fifteen of his classmates while they were in the forest on a mushroom-picking excursion. Unlike the other children who woke up shortly after, Nakata remained in a coma for several weeks. When he finally awoke, he could no longer read or write and had lost his memory. However, he had a newfound ability to speak with cats. We follow Nakata on a grail quest that even he cannot understand, aided by a truck driver named Hoshino whose life is changed by his experiences with the old man he calls \\"Gramps.\\"  <br /> <br />Ultimately, Nakata's and Kafka's stories merge in Shikoku, a small Japanese island, where Kafka has been simultaneously hiding from his father and from the police. Nakata unknowingly opens a door that enables Kafka to confront the truth about himself and his feelings toward his mother, a truth that allows the boy to proceed with life on his own terms, to sit at the metaphorical shore and contemplate both his past and his future.  <br /> <br />Fans of Murakami will likely enjoy KAFKA ON THE SHORE for its offbeat brazenness and its kinky ride through modern culture, while those new to the author may find this book uncomfortably strange. Either way, Murakami's is a unique voice in modern literature, full of humor and intriguing speculations, offering a fascinating perspectives on the meaning of life and how we each find our own way to live it.  <br /> <br />KAFKA ON THE SHORE is a literary three-ring circus, but as everyone knows, the circus is always fun. And it's also a magical place we sometimes dream of running away to join, a place where we, like Kafka Tamura, can escape the burdens of real life.  <br /> <br />	2005-01-31
US	37234590	R848MGFO7QKPZ	189355483X	426057511	Losing the New China: A Story of American Commerce, Desire, and Betrayal	Books	1	41	69	N	N	Not Worth the Time or Money	In his book REDISCOVERING CHINA, Cheng Li quotes a sinologist who said, , \\"If you visit China for two weeks, you want to write a book; if you stay in China for two months, you want to write an article; if you live in China for two years, you don't want to write anything.\\" Unfortunately, Ethan Gutmann chose not to follow this sage advice and ended up authoring a rambling, self-aggrandizing, anti-China screed.     I have spent a substantial amount of time in China since 2001 and have read numerous non-fiction works about that country. Without a doubt, LOSING THE NEW CHINA is among the worst I have ever seen. Prospective readers should be aware that the publisher, Encounter Books, is backed financially by a number of Conservative organizations, among them the Olin and Koch Foundations. Enough said.     The trouble begins on the opening page of the Preface where Gutmann writes messianically, \\"I was more motivated by the idea of changing China than by the prospect of profit.\\" The first hundred pages is pure, self-serving public relations from a PR professional, filled with name dropping and insider-status trivia about AmCham, the American Chamber of Commerce in Beijing. Skip it and go straight to Chapters 5 and 6 where Gutman switches gears and actually offers some interesting insights into Motorola's successes in China and that government's control of the Internet, aided and abetted by Western networking and security companies.     By this point, however, Gutmann claims to have had a George W. Bush transformational experience in which his enthusiasm for China becomes an insecure loathing, apparently triggered by his realization that nothing he or any other Western businessman does will likely convert China to Western ethics and business values (as if our Enron, Adelphia, Tyco, Global Crossing, Martha Stewart, Jack Grubman hands are so clean). Wonder of wonders, another Westerner learns that 5,000 years of history and culture and 1.3 billion people cannot be changed in adecade!    The last chapter of LOSING THE NEW CHINA is truly bizarre. Gutmann offers a self-pitying wallow into the sex-filled nightlife of Beijing, where any Westerner can find anything he wants, as much as he wants. While describing the sexual escapades of an acquaintance named Rex, Gutmann seems torn between disgust and envy, practically indicting the country's entire female population as empty-headed prostitutes. The author nearly tastes the forbidden fruit himself, having entered his \\"personal heart of darkness\\" in the summer of 2001. Oh, the horror! The horror!     Thankfully, Gutmann heroically comes to his senses, returns to his wife in Vermont, and sets out to describe his experience in the evil, godless empire of Communist China. He wears his distaste on his sleeve, foregoing any pretense of objectivity by \\"cleverly\\" using the Chinese character for greed (\\"tan\\") as a decorative symbol at the beginning of each chapter.       LOSING THE NEW CHINA fails to fulfill the promise implicit in its title, but then, it never really had a chance. The author evidences no sense of Chinese history or China's shamed sense of inferiority to the West, demonstrates no affinity for Chinese culture beyond a condescending appreciation of hutong life (even his dabbles in the Beijing culture scene seem little more than opportunities for personal networking), suggests no familiarity with Chinese life beyond the five square miles around Tiananmen Square, and shows no interest in contact with average Chinese people. The world he describes is an isolated and insular community of expatriates whose contacts are limited to the opportunistic Chinese capitalists most like themselves.     Gutmann concludes that China is not to be trusted, that the Chinese government will do anything to preserve its power and extend its global influence. His China is not a vast commercial market or a \\"strategic partner,\\" it is a patiently brooding and devious enemy bent on achieving economic and military power. Chinese companies are just tools of the State, willing to lie, cheat, and steal without a second thought. Gutmann laments the behavior of Western companies willing to play by China's rules (or lack thereof) for the sake of making a buck, yet conveniently ignores decades of identical corporate behavior in Mexico, Central and South America, the African continent, and other parts of Southeast Asia. Western companies giving Beijing the tools to police the Internet is inarguably lamentable, but so is marketing arms and munitions to dictators, selling cigarettes to Third World countries, pricing medicines for malaria and AIDS beyond the reach of millions of dying people, and profiting from the sale of a country's own water to its people.     Trust me, this is a book well worth skipping. I only wish I had known better before I started. The same topic - the frustrations of doing business in China's nascent capitalist economy - is covered far, far better and in a much more detailed and entertaining fashion in Tim Clissold's MR. CHINA. I highly recommend it instead.	2005-01-19
US	37234590	R1DDDFNM0NI4M6	0374223076	505434149	The Noodle Maker: A Novel	Books	5	25	26	N	N	SIMPLY BRILLIANT!!!	Sardonic... insightful... hilarious... satirical... curious... elliptical... Gogolesque... playful... surreal... bitingly sarcastic... cosmic... bizarre... magical... Kafkaesque... touching... disturbing... profound... hugely entertaining. <br /> <br />How many ways can a marvelous work of fiction be praised? Ma Jian's THE NOODLE MAKER deserves all these accolades, and more. This is a dead-on depiction of life's vagaries and absurdities in the earliest years of Communist China, yet it transcends both time and place to describe the human condition.  <br /> <br />Set just after Deng Xiaoping's pronunciation of the Open Door Policy to modernize and open China to Western ideas and business, THE NOODLE MAKER tells the story of two friends, a professional writer named Sheng and a professional blood donor nicknamed Vlazerim. Sheng has been charged by his Writer's Association to pen a short novel about a modern-day Lei Feng, an actual Red Army soldier who died in his country's service and was effectively canonized by Mao for his supposed good deeds while alive. Not only can Sheng not think of anyone to write about, he can only think of stories drawn from his own acquaintances, people whose actions illustrate the most unconventional responses to Deng's vision of a \\"new China.\\" <br /> <br />Most of the book consists of stories Sheng would have written had he been granted the artistic freedom. He begins with undoubtedly his best piece, the story of a young man who buys a used kiln from an art school and turns it into an upscale crematorium, complete with corpse pick-up service and a wide range of legal and illicit music for the deceased to swoon to as he or she enters the furnace. The young man and his mother become wealthy from his business, enough so that the mother decides her time has come to move on to the next life. Other stories deal with a failed actress who arranges her own, very public suicide in the jaws of a tiger, a middle-aged editor who embarks on a series of love trysts until he encounters a textile worker who won't let go, a writer of love (and rejection) letters who comes to realize that he himself can love someone, a woman whose large breasts ruin her life and career, and a painter who lives with a philosophical talking dog.  <br /> <br />Ma Jian tells each story with panache and a wonderful sense of comic timing. His characters are absurd and their actions grotesque, yet they lovably empathetic, each in his or her own peculiar way. The characters' lives and stories are cleverly interconnected, so that as the novel unfolds, we begin to see a community, not just a random collection of individuals. At the same time, each story offers sharply satirical and wonderfully funny commentary on life in a socialist state bent on control of every detail of peoples' lives. The result is a society so full of rules, all rules are meaningless.  <br /> <br />Some readers will be reminded by this book of DEAD SOULS, or perhaps Kafka's THE TRIAL or THE CASTLE. For me, THE NOODLE MAKER was most reminiscent of Italo Calvino's IF ON A WINTER'S NIGHT A TRAVELER, a collection of short tales exchanged between Marco Polo and Genghis Khan. This is a wonderful short novel, one of the best I've read in recent years. Sadly, it may well pass largely unnoticed by the public, lacking the advertising and name recognition of far less deserving works by Grisham, Clancy, or King. That such should be the case is undoubtedly another one of life's ironies that Ma Jian's characters would have duly noted with a sigh.  <br /> <br />	2005-01-18
US	37234590	R331REFABNZCS	0375422765	253560182	War Trash	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	If War Is Hell, then POW Camp Is Limbo	Catholic theologians have long theorized an in-between state of being called Limbo, derived from the Latin word for edge or fringe. Ha Jin's WAR TRASH introduces us to another form of Limbo, occupied in this case by Chinese prisoners of war surviving on the fringes of conflict during the Korean War.  <br /> <br />The novel opens with the elderly Yu Yuan visiting his son and two grandchildren in the United States, promising to tell the story behind the offensive, anti-American words tattooed on his stomach. The setting then reverts to 1951 and Yu's involvement as a member of the Chinese Communist Army in Korea, from his capture and imprisonment, first in Koje Island, then on Cheju Island, to his tortured decision whether to go to Taiwan or return to the Maoist mainland (and his mother and fiance), and finally, to his release in 1953.  <br /> <br />Along the way, Yu is befriended by a female American doctor, assists an American priest, develops his English language skills enough to become an indispensable asset to his superiors, and learns to assert himself on his compatriots' behalf. More important, he realizes that he and his fellow soldiers are just pawns in a whole series of struggles, some propelled by individual self-interest, others originating from larger geopolitical issues. Regardless, the rank and file POW's are reduced in his estimation to valueless \\"war trash,\\" human rubbish left in the wake of military clashes.  <br /> <br />WAR TRASH is a story of survival, yet it never becomes preachy or maudlin or heroic. It is also a story about war's paradoxical ability to simultaneously dehumanize its participants and yet elevate the lowliest soldier to great acts of courage and humanity.  <br /> <br />Most important, however, WAR TRASH is a story about identity. Yu Yuan is known in the camps under the alias Feng Yan, and at another time, he assumes the identity of a fellow prisoner, Chang Ming. But identity is more than just a name for Ha Jin, it is about roles and responsibilities. For Yu Yuan, that means alternately being a graduate of a Nationalist military academy, a lukewarm Communist, a devoted son and fianc, an English-speaking interpreter, an intending repatriate to the mainland, and an intending emigrant to Taiwan. Even the tattoo on his stomach changes its meaning as Yu's identity changes. For the Chinese people at the time of Mao's Liberation, identity was among each person's most malleable possessions, and choosing correctly became a matter of survival as well as a determinant of one's future.  <br /> <br />Ha Jin tells the POW story with straightforward simplicity, dwelling more on events and human relationships than on interior dialog or extended description of the camp conditions. The author creates a compelling story, speaking to us through an empathetic main character and surrounding him with intriguing personalities, from the scheming Commissar Pei and the loyal young Shanmin to his close friend Bai Dajian. His narrative is strongest when he talks about the small battles and triumphs in POW life: the value of a pencil, the warmth of canine friendship, the schemes for establishing communication, the pleasure in a bit of meat or barley.  <br /> <br />In WAITING and CRAZED, Ha Jin addressed the great questions of life from the simplest of story lines and the most ordinary of human characters. This time, he has broadened the scope of his narrative setting, yet he has remained true to his practice of focusing on average people and the small details of their lives. His storytelling is always engaging, but it is his ability to reveal the profound in the mundane, the universal in the local, and the complex in the simple that makes each of his works a rewarding reading experience. I heartily recommend WAR TRASH for its human drama in the most uncertain of settings.     <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-13
US	37234590	ROUQISVJWAI6Y	4770029055	692528243	Out	Books	5	50	56	N	N	A Riveting Look at the Japanese Dark Side	As Edgar Allen Poe and Rod Serling both demonstrated, the best horror stories take place in the most mundane settings, involving the most ordinary people. Natsuo Kirino's OUT brilliantly follows this dictum, presenting a chilling tale of murder and dismemberment under the most ordinary of circumstances. The result is a gripping page-turner that turns victimizers into victims and ultimately probes the darkest corners of the Japanese psyche.  <br /> <br />OUT begins with four typical Japanese women who work the night shift together at a box lunch factory. Masako Katori is a middle-aged, former office worker locked into a loveless marriage to a self-isolating husband and an intentionally mute teenage son. Yoshie Azuma is a widow in her late fifties, burdened with the care of an incontinent mother-in-law and two self-centered daughters. Kuniko Jonouchi is an overweight and materialistic young woman whose live-in \\"husband\\" has just abandoned her and her small mountain of credit debt. Yayoi Yamamoto is a pretty young mother of two children and wife to a gambling, skirt-chasing husband who has blown their life savings at the baccarat tables of a club owned by Mitsuyoushi Satake, a small-time hood with a horrifying secret past. <br /> <br />It is Yayoi who triggers events by strangling her husband in a fit of rage. Realizing what she has done, she calls Masako for help, and they jointly decide to hide the murder and get rid of the body. Their solution eventually sucks Yoshie and Kuniko into their plot, and Satake is fingered by the police as the most likely killer of Yayoi's husband. Satake loses both of his clubs as a consequence and sets out on a course of revenge. The four women's lives head into a free falling death spiral as they are unwittingly drawn into one another's lives and into the yakuza underworld. Desperation leads them to more and more shocking actions, resulting in two of their deaths and a chilling battle of wits, culminating in a sado-masochistic climax.<br /> <br />Kirino's writing is serviceable for this type of book, not rich in imagery or description but well-paced, focusing on actions and character motivations. She maintains her characters' sense of desperation and builds her story to a suspenseful climax, leaving the reader guessing how her main characters will respond to events. Kirino is most successful in tracing Masako's discovery of hidden strengths as well as her descent into horrifying depravity. We identify with Masako, leaving us wondering just how dark might be the deepest corners of our own souls.  <br /> <br />OUT struck me as a particularly Japanese novel, following that culture's peculiar fascination with ritualistic murder and masochistic infliction of pain evidenced by writers like Mishima, movies like IN THE REALM OF THE SENSES, and even the recent spate of pop horror movies like THE RING. America's dark side tends toward mass murderers and serial killers, most of whom are regarded as social misfits or freaks (such as Jeffrey Dahmer, or Hannibal Lechter). The power of Kirino's OUT lies in the very ordinariness of its four female protagonists.   <br /> <br />I bought OUT as an airplane read before an 18-hour flight; it proved to be an excellent choice for some badly needed escapism. I am hardly an expert on crime novels, but I recommend this book highly as a good read and a bleak look at the underside of modern Japanese life and culture.  <br /> <br />	2004-12-30
US	37234590	R15KV754MM9QDH	1585675172	598384963	The Stones Of Summer	Books	5	112	116	N	N	A Remarkable and Unforgettable Book	Let me begin by saying that, had I discovered this book on my own, without Mark Moskowittz's STONE READER documentary, I would have been recommending it to every serious reader I know. I approached it with some reservation, expecting to find an overhyped work that had gone out of print for good reason, but I was utterly captivated within the first five pages. Fifty pages in, I was saying \\"Wow!\\"     Dow Mossman's THE STONES OF SUMMER seems to attract a remarkable degree of vitriol from reviewers. Readers apparently either love it or hate it, perhaps somewhat the way people respond to modern art. It is surely a far from perfect work, but rather than pick nits about individual sentences and images, I found myself reading right through them, accepting them for the atmosphere they create as if I was reading poetry. For me, at least, the story flowed into a larger societal picture that resonated with the sense of betrayal and despair generated by the antiwar,  counterculture movement of the late 1960's.     THE STONES OF SUMMER is a remarkable first novel, and sadly, an apparently last novel as well. As past reviews suggest, it is also not everyone's cup of tea. This book is not a mindless summer read, nor is it a page-turning thriller. But readers whose tastes run to Saramago, Pynchon, DeLillo, Faulkner, or Garcia Marquez are likely to find Dow Mossman's book intriguing and enjoyable (if less polished), a deeply felt story wrapped in prose so exuberant, so manically transcendent, it practically leaps off the page and grabs you by the throat. Unlike so many popular works (Ludlum, Grisham, King, Cussler, Clancy, etc.) whose stories are as memorable as last week's hot dog, this is a book you will never forget.     On its surface, THE STONES OF SUMMER tells the coming of age story of Iowa-born Dawes Oldham Williams (D.O.W.) in three segments.  The first takes place when a precocious, eight year old Dawes visits his grandfather's racing greyhound farm during summer vacation,with flashbacks to Dawes' relationship and adventures with a troublemaking friend named Ronnie Crown. The second segment occurs 7-10 years later, during Dawes' rather wild and crazy high school years, ending in tragedy on his last night at home before college. The final section takes place another ten years later and finds Dawes on his way to, and living in, Mexico, still trying to cope with personal losses, hopelessness, and borderline schizophrenia.     Each section of the book speaks in its own voice. The opening, 1949-1950 segment is densely written, filled with the soaring, spiraling imagery for which the book is best known. We are introduced to Dawes' ineffectual, Donna Reed mother and nearly as bland stepfather, a dark and imposing grandfather with a hair-trigger temper and dog-eat-dog temperament reminiscent of Joe McCarthy, and a sybil-like neighbor woman named Abigail Winas who raises chickens and all but reads their entrails. The second section, 1956-1961, is more chronologically told in somewhat more straightforward prose and dialog, suggesting the sexual and cultural revolution just then beginning. The final section, 1967-1968, is almost hallucinatory, filled with journal writings, letters, a short novel by Dawes, and a story line about sanity, drugs, Vietnam, and the sexual revolution.      THE STONES OF SUMMER deals with the great American awakening from 1950 to 1968, culminating with the tragedy of the Vietnam War and the death of American innocence. It is a novel about personal identity and individuality, alienation, the role of history (both personal and national), and the relativity of truth. In the end, it is also a story of rebellion against tradition and cultural mores and the burdens falling upon those who rebel. The message is classic, the execution is powerful, the story is tragic. Writing in 1972, Mossman proved prescient about the absurdity of American culture and political values, going so far as to conjecture about the ridiculous notionof Ronald Reagan as a President! Dawes Williams would have laughed until he cried if he had seen what has come to pass with the Bush Administration's manufacturing of its own history with regard to Iraq: WMD's, toppling Saddam's statue, Jessica Lynch, the Thanksgiving turkey, \\"Mission Accomplished,\\" \\"We're making good progress. They all love us,\\" and the like. He had seen the enemy, and it was us. Aaatttssssss Dawes!    There is certainly room for valid criticism of this book. The female characters lack depth, the prose is sometimes just too extravagant, the literary allusions lack subtlety, some of the dialog is pretentious to the point of self-parody, and the Huck Finn references (particularly Dawes having a girlfriend named Becky Thatcher) are overplayed. Yet despite these drawbacks, Dow Mossman masterfully captures America's own coming of age story in a way few authors have.	2004-12-21
US	37234590	RJN3QAEHU5H3X	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A Devastating and Disturbing Family Portrait	For anyone interested in the precarious state of political and economic affairs and international relations in America today, AMERICAN DYNASTY is an absolute Must Read. Author Kevin Phillips connects the myriad dots across four generations of the Bush/Walker clan: Skull and Bones, oil and finance businesses, CIA and foreign intelligence activities, Saudi Arabia and Transcaspia, arms and military supply businesses, and radical religious fundamentalism. The family portrait that emerges is a chilling and appalling picture of privilege, favoritism, secrecy, cynicism, deceit, dubious financial dealings, political opportunism, insularity, vengefulness, and crony capitalism little different from the robber barons of a century ago. Phillips clearly establishes that no family in American political history has been so tightly connected, and beholden, to oil interests, military-industrial concerns, and intelligence community operatives as the two Bush Presidents.    As a former Republican strategist, Phillips' perceptions (like those of David Brock in BLINDED BY THE RIGHT) gain credence from his abhorrence of what he has finally perceived from the Right. Much of the information he presents in AMERICAN DYNASTY has been published before in other places, some to great notoriety, much of it less well known. The success of this book comes from tying so much disparate information together in a single view, in particular the family antecedents that color George W. Bush's worldview. If ever a President has been manufactured on the model of Robert Redford's infamous THE CANDIDATE, Phillips demonstrates how George W.'s empty shell has been filled by his grandfather, father, family friends, Yale buddies, and the combined ministries of Billy Graham, Jerry Falwell, and Jim and Tammy Bakker.     Many of Phillips' observations are both compelling and dismaying, such as:    --  George H.W. Bush's conflict-of-interest-ridden, highly lucrative involvement with the influence peddling Carlyle Group while his son is still in office (while past Presidents Carter and Clinton spend their time on affordable housing and AIDS).  -- The connection between George W. Bush's war in Iraq and Christian evangelicals' hopes for Armageddon and the \\"end of days\\" arising from the Middle East.  -- The seamy appointments of Chief Justice Rehnquist's daughter and Justice Scalia's son to high-level government positions following their parents' anointment of George W. Bush as President by judicial fiat (not to mention the appointment of Colin Powell's son as chairman of the FCC).  -- The even seamier role of Wendy Gramm, chair of the CFTC and wife of Texas Republican Senator Phil Gramm, in shortening a year-long review process to two months and approving regulations just days before Clinton's inauguration that effectively set the stage for the Enron financial fiasco by removing their financing activities, at their request, from her own jurisdiction! A month later, she was named to the Enron Board of Directors and received $1-2 million over the next eight years for her services.  -- Bush II's decision to ship his Texas gubernatorial papers to his father's Presidential library where they would be held inaccessible through restrictive new privacy policies pushed through by Bush himself.  -- The SEC's \\"inadvertent\\" destruction of the 1960-1966 filings of Zapata Offshore Petroleum in 1981, shortly after Bush I became Vice President (eerily similar to other convenient disappearances, such as Bush II's National Guard service records).     On the minus side, AMERICAN DYNASTY suffers at times from Phillips penchant for detail. While clearly well-researched, the author's drive to include every minute factoid lessens the overall impact of his thesis and complicates the reader's task. Nevertheless, AMERICAN DYNASTY offers important and deeply disturbing insights into America's declining democracy and deteriorating standing in the world community. Among the many failings of the American massmedia in recent years, connecting the threads and critically examining the Bush family history has been one of its greatest. Phillips does here what nearly the entire journalistic profession has failed to do - painted a picture unfiltered by Karl Rove and Rush Limbaugh.     A Bush/Cheney empire built on massive military power freely wielded in the service of American economic interests, a good and evil, \\"end of days\\" worldview, casual disregard for our allies, and financial self-dealing, all conducted under veils of secrecy, compromised civil liberties, and threat of treason for aiding and abetting our terrorist enemies, hardly represents the ideals of our Founding Fathers. If Thomas Jefferson were alive today, he'd have probably already left Virginia for Canada. Kevin Phillips' AMERICAN DYNASTY explains in part why so many Blue State Americans have the same inclination.	2004-12-17
US	37234590	R3548LMMQKWC0B	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	3	23	28	N	N	Mixed feelings about an entertaining book	Nothing would be easier than adding another 5-star review of A YEAR IN PROVENCE. It is a hard book not to like, but seldom have I finished a book with such ambivalent feelings. A classically casual armchair travel book, A YEAR IN PROVENCE goes down easy like a fine wine, requiring nothing of its readers except a brief swirl around the mind before swallowing. The story is light-hearted, the writing breezy and funny, the food delectable, the local citizenry picaresque, the scenery pastoral, the wine earthy, the weather alternately wonderful and dreadful. A year of domestic calamities come and go, resolved with the gravitas of a TV sitcom. All ends well in each episode, with everyone smiling and bellies full.  <br /> <br />Peter Mayle's A YEAR IN PROVENCE is filled with amusing anecdotes and gentle humor. He evokes the Provence countryside effectively, particularly the effects of climate and season on local temperaments and pace of life. Yet throughout this book, I repeatedly felt a sense of carefully-disguised, or perhaps inadvertant, distance. Mayle reveals little of himself and even less of his wife, who remains oddly nameless, faceless, and personality-less for the duration of the book.  <br /> <br />More disturbing are the locals, the Provencals. Each comes across as something of a caricature, a French version of Normal Rockwell's characters, or maybe a French version of the old comedy show Green Acres. There's Faustin, the tenant farmer, always expecting the worst, and Menicucci, the plumber extraordinaire, bigger than life and full of small philosophies, and Massot, the local crank and German-hater. And Christian the architect, Didier the mason, Ramon the plasterer, and Jean-Pierre the carpet layer. Mayle's world isn't populated by people with lives, just role players in the theater of the author's own life, bit parts to Mayle's Everyman, named according to their professions.  <br /> <br />Even the secondary characters are presented this way. The men are all salts of the earth, the women all earth mothers. Every chef and baker is a dedicated but understated master, every craftsman an artist who would rather eat, every English visitor a clown or a boor, every Parisian an effete snob, every St. Tropez beachgoer an SPF-slicked fool. And above it all, mildly bemused, sits Peter Mayle, the only non-Provencal to have discovered the truth about life, olive oil, wine, goat cheese, wine, French bread, wine, mushrooms, truffles, and wine.  <br /> <br />A YEAR IN PROVENCE is an upscale, clean-hands-and-shoes view of Provence for readers enthralled by Michelin ratings, truffles, finding the perfect wine for each occasion, or discovering the ultimate olive oil. This is not life in Provence, it's a year's vacation in a French country house with a pool in back and money to spend on whatever moves you.  <br /> <br />I finished the book feeling as stuffed full of Provencal food and wine as a local at lunchtime, but I was far less sure I had learned what makes a Provencal tick. Seven lines from the end, Mayle writes: \\"It had been a self-absorbed year...\\" I couldn't have summarized the book any better myself. <br /> <br />Three stars for an entertaining but disappointingly superficial book.	2004-12-04
US	37234590	R2FU6JHWK82T4J	037571894X	858260451	A Wild Sheep Chase: A Novel	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Murakami Does Vonnegut, with Ears Unblocked	It's hard not to reach the end of Haruki Murakami's wonderfully entertaining A WILD SHEEP CHASE and not find yourself asking, \\"What was THAT all about?\\" Sometimes hilarious, sometimes sad with loss, almost always quirky after the style of Kurt Vonnegut, Murakami's story line pulls you in and keeps you hooked with unexpected twists and turns that leave you as desperate as his nameless main character to learn the ovine truth. <br /> <br />On its face, the book is a combination mystery story, grail quest, and science fiction novel, laced with biting sarcasm. A perfectly regular young advertising executive is approached one day by a mysterious stranger concerning a photograph of sheep grazing in a mountain pasture that the agency used in an insurance company ad. Buried within the herd is one sheep of an unknown breed with a star-shaped birthmark on its back. Unbeknown to the young executive, he has transgressed some unmarked boundary and caught the attention of The Boss, an immensely rich Tokyo businessman and power broker. The mysterious stranger delivers an ultimatum from The Boss: find the sheep in one month and be exceedingly well-rewarded, or be forced into permanent career ruin if he fails. The balance of the book traces the quest of the young executive and his unusual girlfriend to find the sheep and discover its bizarre significance. <br /> <br />With A WILD SHEEP CHASE, Murakami has constructed a bizarre novel populated by an alcoholic business partner, a godlike mysterious stranger dressed in black, a girlfriend with uncanny sixth sense and ears that turn her into an irresistible beauty when exposed, a philosophizing chauffeur, a borderline psychotic Sheep Professor, and a man who lives in the woods and dresses like a sheep. All of the characters are nameless, at most given nicknames like The Boss, The Rat, J, and Sheep Man. Only the hero's aged and unnamed cat is bestowed with a name, Kipper, in the course of the story. <br /> <br />Fabulous imagery and clever prose riffs abound in Murakami's world. Consider the following small sampling: <br /> <br />-- \\"Far off, someone was practicing piano. It sounded like tripping down an up escalator.\\" <br />-- \\"The elevator shook like a large dog with lung disease.\\" <br />-- \\"Occasionally, someone coughed with a dry rasp that sounded like a mummy tapped on the head with a pair of tongs.\\" <br />-- \\"The yellow glow of the light bulbs drifted about the room like pollen.\\" <br />-- \\"The house kept its own time, like the old-fashioned grandfather clock in the living room. People who happened by raised the weights, and as long as the weights were wound, the clock continued ticking away. But with people gone and the weights unattended, whole chunks of time were left to collect in deposits of faded life on the floor.\\" <br /> <br />So what is the book really all about? Perhaps it's a commentary about economic and emotional gain and loss in our lives, or maybe it's a parable about the existence of free will and how much more difficult it is to exercise than we think (and how less often we really do it than we believe). Or possibly, it's a novel about individuality and mediocrity in Japanese society. Then again, it could be a protest against a powerful and homogenizing globalization that threatens to turn us all into nameless, unindividuated sheep. Of course, it could just be a silly, pseudo science fiction story without any meaning. Whatever - res ipsa loquitur, the thing speaks for itself. <br /> <br />A WILD SHEEP CHASE is a great read, fun and funny, full of memorable characters and pungent commentary about modern life. This is Murakami with a twist. Step up to the bar and take an unforgettable drink. And don't forget to write down God's phone number and give him a call.	2004-11-26
US	37234590	RGVLQ5MFIFFEM	0195151321	428954813	Democracy and the News	Books	1	20	48	N	N	A Book with Nothing to Say, and It Achieves That End	Here are some of the \\"features\\" of Herbert Gans's DEMOCRACY AND THE NEWS: <br /> <br />-- Dozens if not hundreds of sentences with such subject phrases as many people, some organizations, most editors, a significant number of elected officials, much of the audience, and some observers. <br /> <br />-- Dozens if not hundreds of sentences containing such qualifiers as perhaps, sometimes, many times, often, may be, could be, might be, probably, may yet be, could in theory be, is difficult to say, and virtually any other squishy generalizer the author could conjure. <br /> <br />-- Repeated assertions that questions deserve to be asked, no one has charted the processes, has not received sufficient consideration, deserves more legwork than it receives, needs discussion, and no one has ever tried to measure. <br /> <br />-- A plethora of vague generalities, occasionally interrupted by such revealing specifics as the fact that \\"60 Minutes\\" focuses on watchdog news, that the Florida voting count investigations did not reverse the 2000 Presidential election, that government officials use press leaks as trial balloons, that young people \\"apparently\\" obtain their news from \\"Comedy Central,\\" and that Rush Limbaugh is currently the most famous of radio hosts who draw audiences by being as argumentative as possible.  <br /> <br />-- A set of recommendations that would have big city newspapers reporting on which DMV office had the shortest lines, how rising oil prices are affecting Mr. Johnson's body shop, society news written by journalists from \\"low income backgrounds,\\" reports written in non-standard English, and stories written by teen reporters aabout how new legislation will affect their peers (Beavis and Butthead do Washington). As if American mass culture doesn't already bottom feed enough, Gans would have the mass media dumbing down even further in the name of \\"localization.\\" <br /> <br />-- An astounding 380 footnotes for 125 pages of text, occupying nearly 20% of the page count and frequently adding further generalizations and loose conjecture on top of the already vague sentences from which they were generated. <br /> <br />-- Possibly the Hope Diamond of meaningless academic writing (referring to a Pew Center study that half the respondents only follow the news wnen something important or interesting is happening): \\"Whether yet more members of the news audience will adopt this pattern remains to be seen, for it depends on what happens in and to the country.\\" And the stock market will fluctuate and the seasons will change. So sayeth Chauncey Gardener.  <br /> <br />Professor Gans manages to insult his readers' intelligence with the astoundingly obvious. At the same time, he barely mentions independent Internet websites and weblogs (Slate, Matt Drudge, Wonkette, etc.), word-of-mouth via multiply-forwarded email, Fox News and MSNBC, talking head programs like Crossfire, current events books focusing on politics, Bill Maher and Jon Stewart, MTV, and almost any other new technology or non-traditional news source. He also completely ignores European news institutions such as BBC News, despite the fact that Europeans frequently know and understand American economic and foreign policy better than most Americans.  <br /> <br />If you are looking for a book that deals in critical and specific detail with the roles and issues of the news media in the American democratic system, please look elsewhere. DEMOCRACY AND THE NEWS provides strong evidence that even full professors at Columbia University are not immune from writing 125 pages of heavily footnoted drivel. If this is what \\"publish or perish\\" is all about, then please, by all means, perish.  <br />	2004-11-17
US	37234590	R3FDRCWTR9WKDZ	0312421818	156310833	The Book of Illusions: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The Book of Improbable Coincidences	Almost two hundred years ago, Coleridge wrote about the \\"willing suspension of disbelief.\\" Although he was referring to what he called \\"poetic faith,\\" his succinct turn of phrase has often been applied to literature and cinema. As readers, we usually bequeath our disbelief to an author for the duration of our involvement, but occasionally, we encounter a work that so strains our credulity, we simply can't sustain the effort and the entire fiction crashes down around us.    A collapsing house of cards is how I would describe THE BOOK OF ILLUSIONS. This is a book filled with enough contrived coincidences, improbable circumstances, and unlikely characters to spin Coleridge's bones in his grave. Whatever commentary Paul Auster sought to offer on the ephemeral nature of cinema, the necessary illusions of acting, the transience (and illusions) in human relationships, and the deeper questions of artistic ownership, it is mostly lost in a fog of unlikely events and melodramatic characters. In the end, the book comes across as the novelistic equivalent of the high school conundrum: \\"If a tree falls in the woods and there's no one there to hear it, does it make a sound?\\" Does anyone care?    THE BOOK OF ILLUSIONS traces the parallel lives of two men whose fates intersect as the result of tragic accidents. David Zimmer, a professor of comparative literature, loses his wife and two young sons to an airplane accident. In the midst of (what else?) a severe alcoholic funk, he happens to find a moment's relief in a silent comedy starring Hector Mann, a promising young actor who suddenly and mysteriously disappeared from public view sixty years ago. Prints of Hector's lost movies have suddenly begun appearing at museums around the world, so David elects to devote himself to seeing each movie and writing a critical study of Mann's work.     His book published, Zimmer receives a mysterious phone call one day saying that the long-missing Hector Mann wants to meet him. From this starting point, we learn what happened to Hector during those missing years and how his life and life's work are resolved. Throughout, we are treated to such coincidences as the two men's dead sons named Tad and Todd, Zimmer pursuing the presumed-dead Hector while simultaneously translating from French an autobiography entitled Memoirs of a Dead Man, a silent film star who wants to silence his own voice (get it?), and a cap found in a men's room by Hector belonging to one Herman (Herr Mann, get it?) Loesser (loser or lesser, get it?). We also wallow through a cast of female characters with names like Dolores, Alma, Faye, Nora, Sylvia, and Frieda, an Irish shop owner named Red (what else?), Mexican deaf mute midget twins (argh!) embarrassingly named Juan and Conchita (deaf mutes working as servants for a silent movie star, get it?), and a ranch named after a congealed glob of spit.     Despite everything, I still gave this book three stars. Like a great sports team, Auster at less than his best is still better than most. THE BOOK OF ILLUSIONS is an entertaining story, and Auster's style provides compelling reading in a mystery novel atmosphere. His descriptions of Hector Mann's silent film performances are marvelous - we can visualize the comic action from the written page. His later description of Hector's movie, The Inner Life of Martin Starr, is even better, although the plot trick was a bit too obvious and a bit too Twilight Zone for me.    If you've read Paul Auster before, by all means read THE BOOK OF ILLUSIONS. If you haven't yet read Auster's work, start with THE NEW YORK TRILOGY, THE MUSIC OF CHANCE, or MOON PALACE before reading this one. You will find THE BOOK OF ILLUSIONS enjoyable even if it is not one of the author's best. I particularly recommend it as airplane reading. You'll understand why while you're reading at 35,000 feet - it's better than Xanax.	2004-11-16
US	37234590	R1M9KZD402D28I	0375725806	718909823	Underground: The Tokyo Gas Attack and the Japanese Psyche	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Fascinating Look at the Japanese Psyche	Haruki Murakami's UNDERGROUND offers a window into the soul of Japan, and the view is deeply disturbing. Better than any sociological treatise or mere reportage, Murakami describes the 1995 sarin gas attack in Tokyo's subway system almost exclusively through the voices of its victims, their families, others who were pulled into the emergency, and finally, members of the Aum Shinrikyo cult that perpetrated the attack (but not those directly involved). <br /> <br />UNDERGROUND paints a picture that is at times tragically sad. The story told by Yoshiko Wada, the then-pregnant wife of Eiji Wada (one of those who died), is one of the most moving pieces of writing I can remember. Sad as well are the stories of subway workers who died trying to save others, and the descriptions of people lying on the sidewalks, comatose or experiencing violent spasms while their fellow salarymen pass hurriedly by on their way to work, refusing to notice.  <br /> <br />At other times, the picture borders on grotesque. There are verbal images of subway cars full of coughing Japanese commuters, some falling to the floor, with no one becoming suspicious that something terribly wrong was happening. Some victims head for work nearly blind from their contracted pupils (an effect of the sarin), yet they proceed as if it's just a head cold. Other images portraying commuters blithely exiting a subway station at near-normal pace while loudspeakers blare \\"Gas attack!\\" are almost unbelievable. More so are the images of Japanese salarymen crawling on the sidewalks, on their hands and knees, to get to work, so single-mindedly driven by habit and inculcated sense of duty they resemble the robot assassins in TERMINATOR, relentlessly intent on completing their mission even as they are dying. <br /> <br />Murakami takes an intriguing approach to telling this story, refusing to give us background information on the Aum cult or its leader, Shoko Asahara. This decision seems frustrating at first, but the effectis powerful. Murakami's interest is the victims' stories, not Aum Shinrikyo's. Doubtless many of those injured by the sarin attack knew little or nothing of Aum at the time, just as many in the World Trade Center on 9/11 had probably never heard of Osama bin-Laden. We feel nearly as disoriented and confused reading their stories as they felt experiencing the events - who, what, why? By forcing us to focus on the victims and their collective reactions, Murakami makes us feel the same sense of inexplicable irrationality they must have felt. We experience the effect while barely understanding the cause.  <br /> <br />In the last quarter of the book, Murakami switches from invisible recorder of peoples' stories to active interviewer of some past and current Aum cult members. As those individuals speak, the background becomes clearer and the stories of the victims gain perspective, fitting into a large picture of Japanese society. The statements of these Aum followers reflect the typical cultist's emotional detachment and sense of not being \\"normal,\\" but after the bizarre descriptions provided by the supposedly normal victims, I could not help wondering who in this society was really the more sane. The Aum interviewees universally reject the terrorism of the Tokyo subway attacks, yet they see those events as nothing more than a perversion of higher principles and practices to which they nearly all subscribe. They view their Aum days as peaceful, fulfilling, and beneficial, feelings they (and everyone else in the book) seem unable to find anywhere else in Japanese society.  <br /> <br />At times, Murakami's interviews seem overly repetitive, but even the repetition is revealing. We see into a society whose suppression of individuality is so overwhelming, people who don't know each other use almost identical phrases to describe their experience. They share common reactions to the events and even common disinterest in their victimizers. They speak of two hour one-way commutes on hot trains packed wall-to-wall with people, work days that routinely run from 5:00 a.m. to midnight, and work ethics that submerge any sense of self (and any common sense as well) as if these were the natural living conditions of 20th Century mankind. The one person who may have saved the most lives that day, Dr. Nobuo Yanagisawa, did so by acting the least Japanese of anyone in this book. Intentionally or not, Haruki Murakami has shown us a \\"normal\\" Japan nearly as horrifying as the sarin gas itself.	2004-11-13
US	37234590	R8ILH49Y1Y4SP	0151010404	421567525	The Double	Books	5	40	43	N	N	A Magical Tale by a Master Writer	From the day I discovered BLINDNESS, I have been a great fan of Jose Saramago's work: THE STONE RAFT, THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO JESUS CHRIST, and THE CAVE to mention a few. I picked up THE DOUBLE with eager anticipation and was not disappointed. The pacing is slow and deliberate, the sentences long and convoluted in typically Saramagian style, but this is a book that I simply did not want to put down. Every time I planned to use a chapter ending as a break point in my reading, my eyes continued on almost involuntarily to the next page, my mind not yet ready to let go of the story. <br /> <br />THE DOUBLE's story line is simple, the cast of characters relatively limited. Tertuliana Maximo Afonso is the most ordinary of ordinary history teachers, a divorced, middle-aged man living a stagnant existence: friendless, cautious to the point of near paralysis, afraid of commitment to an inexplicably-attached girlfriend, and overly attached to his own mother. Then one evening, following the recommendation of a fellow teacher, he watches a rented video and sees a minor actor who is a virtual duplicate of himself as he looked five years earlier, when the movie was made.  <br /> <br />With this cinematic revelation of a double, Tertuliano Maximo's world is turned upside down. He begins a comically academic process of investigation, even co-opting his girlfriend Maria da Paz into participating while refusing to reveal the reason. The more he learns about his double, the more shocked he is by their clone-like sameness, down to the matching scars on their knees. Once he learns the other man's true name and address, Maximo cannot resist making contact. Upon discovering their identicalness extends even to birth dates and fingerprints, they are joined in a battle for primogeniture, for the right to exist and occupy the one single place Nature intended for just one human entity, at the unavoidable expense of the other. The consequences are both amusing and tragic, concluding with a surprise twist.  <br /> <br />It is tempting to consider THE DOUBLE as Saramago's riff on cloning, but such an interpretation seems overly literal and a bit too facile. Instead, the book can be seen as a modern tale of personal identity: who we think we are, who we portray ourselves to be, and who we really are (or if we can ever even discover that).  <br /> <br />Once, double lives were the exclusive province of movie stars and politicians, those who necessarily adopted public personas often far different from their private lives. Today, we have ordinary people taking on new identities courtesy of reality television programs. Thanks to the Internet, we can try on and cast off personalities as easily as changing shirts: projecting chosen identities in chat rooms and via instant messaging, living them out as avatars in simulated life games like The Sims, or portraying ourselves as we wish to be seen on personal web pages. In an Internet world, we can be several people simultaneously. Those who \\"see\\" us may have no idea who we really are. After a while, we may not even be sure ourselves which identity is the real \\"us.\\"  <br /> <br />In THE DOUBLE, Saramago pries open the lid on modern identity to examine the consequences of a world in which we can be so easily heard without being seen, where we can represent ourselves to be virtually anything we choose to be. It is no accident that Tertuliano Maximo's doppelganger has a successful career as a supporting actor in movies, appearing in one as a waiter, in another as a hotel receptionist, in still others as a croupier, a dance teacher, a theater impresario. Nor is it a matter of chance that Tertuliano Maximo is a teacher of ancient history, a reader about Mesopotamia, burdened by a laughably outmoded first name and an equally out-of-date automobile, so technophobic he is clueless about how to use a computer. Tertuliano Maximo Afonso is no longer a serviceable identity - it's time to discard it for a newer and better one.  <br/> <br />For those unfamiliar with Jose Saramago's work, do not be put off in the first twenty pages by his writing style. His prose is full of involutions and convolutions, turning in on itself playfully and wandering about self-reflexively, revealing wry commentaries and sardonic humor along the way. Saramago's writing is meant to be savored like a fine wine, swirled about the mind and appreciated the way we appreciate the brushstrokes of a master oil painter. The result is magical, more than worth the effort. This is a masterful work from a master writer and deserving Nobelist.  <br />	2004-10-26
US	37234590	R1G7ORAYJMEEPN	0316563560	716964582	Candy	Books	2	54	63	N	N	What if Courtney Love wrote a book and nobody cared?	It appears that one of the publishing world's latest minor crazes is to indulge the whining, self-absorbed, oh-so-shocking musings of China's disaffected youth culture. Wei Hui's SHANGHAI BABY, Chun Sue's BEIJING DOLL, and Mian Mian's CANDY are the undeserving recipients of far too much attention (and far to much of the precious few translation resources devoted to serious Chinese literature) for books whose only raison d'etre is their ostensible shock value from having originated in mainland China. The formula is simple: write explicitly about sex and drugs, use a few four-letter words, get banned by Beijing, and get published in the West as underground novels.     Regretably, CANDY wastes the talents of a potentially good writer on material that's been said and done a hundred times before. Mian Mian demonstrates flashes of stylistic brilliance and acute observational powers, but the dreary repetitiveness and pointless trite meanderings of her story overwhelm the merits of her work. Her structural devices of changing narrative perspective from first to third person not only fail to enrich her novel, they actually amplify its shortcomings. Her main character, Hong, is just as boring and childish whether we listen to her voice or hear another character talking about her.    In place of an exposition of life in modern urban China, Mian Mian gives us a story of a music and drug culture centered on distinctively unlikable protagonists. Her Shanghai world is populated by artist wannabes, semi-educated, superficial, and over-pampered childen who would rather sleep and drink and go clubbing than deal with the real world. It's China starring Paris Hilton and Jessica Simpson - gag me! Even worse, her story tells us next to nothing about Shenzhen or Shanghai (what other reason would anyone have for reading this book?). Change the characters' names to Cindy and Bill, and CANDY would feel like it was set in London or Los Angeles, or even Louisville for that matter.     Aside from its author being from China (although she no longer lives there), this book offers nothing new, nothing that hasn't been said before about the turgid, angst-ridden lives of disaffected post-adolescents who haven't yet realized they are post anything. Mian Mian's characters - walking cliches spouting tired references to Jim Morrison and Kurt Cobain - demonstrate that present-day Chinese culture, the world capitol of intellectual theft and brand piracy, cannot even experience rebellion and disillusion with originality. CANDY is the novelistic equivalent of a pair of counterfeit Nikes.     At times, the book lapses into literary spells that are unintentionally self-parodying:    \\"Die in the prime of youth, and leave a beautiful corpse: what an intensely beautiful dream that was.\\"  \\"The only meaning in my life was that my life was meaningless.\\"  \\"Sometimes, merely getting into the bathtub would make him start to cry....He wondered, If the shower had eyes, would it be sad?\\"  \\"Never forget who you are (even if you end up having a lot of money someday).\\"  \\"The world was changing, and I felt as though I no longer had any heroes....I'd long ago stopped wondering about the difference between blue skies and suffering.\\"    Ouch, ouch, ouch!! Speaking of suffering, save yourself the experience and skip CANDY. Listen to some Nirvana with an Alannis Morisette chaser, watch \\"Trainspotting\\" or \\"Sid and Nancy\\" or \\"Beavis and Butthead\\" and you'll get the same message a lot quicker. If you really want to read about life in China, try Chen Ran (A PRIVATE LIFE), Ma Jian (RED DUST), Geling Yan (THE LOST DAUGHTER OF HAPPINESS), Lan Samantha Chang (INHERITANCE), or any of Mo Yan, Yu Hua, Hong Ying, Gao Xingjian, or Ha Jin.     2 Stars for artistic potential and the hope that next time, Mian Mian looks further than her own navel for something to write about.	2004-10-20
US	37234590	R1X6G0Q5QPLZXF	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	33	42	N	N	An Essential Read for Thinking Americans	Not since I read Dee Brown's BURY MY HEART AT WOUNDED KNEE some years ago have I encountered a book that so radically shook my perspective on American history and the myth of \\"America the noble and good\\" as did HEGEMONY AND SURVIVAL. In a moderately dense yet compelling fashion, Noam Chomsky peels away layers upon layers of governmental obfuscation and media complicity to reveal America as seen by those looking upon our last sixty years of foreign policy from the outside, and particularly those upon whom our actions have too often been tragically visited. <br /> <br />Drawing from our own policy statements and historical records, the foreign press, and speeches by government officials, Chomsky demolishes the idealized American image by citing our own actions. The prose is clear and straightforward, the arguments logical, the historical record grim. If Chomsky is even half right in his assessment, Americans have as much to be ashamed of in the last fifty years as we have to be proud of. Dee Brown made me feel ashamed of my country's history and my own naivete, and so has Noam Chomsky.  <br /> <br />Far too few of us call into question our self-satisfying mythology of America the guardian of freedom, always on the side of right, always pursuing the greater good for the downtrodden and oppressed. In its place, Chomsky shows us America the domineering, the globally aggressive seeker of what's best for American commercial interests, supporter of all manner of tyrannical regimes and opponent of nearly every liberal democratic movement of the last half century. We see America the purveyor of democracy only on its own terms, willing to uproot and overthrow any populist democracy not of our own liking or under our control. Killing thousands of innocent people in Iraq (and indirectly inciting fundamentalist terrorism that has killed thousands more)is just the latest chapter in the American pattern of cramming democracy (or dictators, when it suits our purpose) down the throats of other peoples in the name of freedom. <br /> <br />HEGEMONY AND SURVIVAL is an extraordinarily thought-provoking book that should engender deep and serious discussion about what our country really is and what it really stands for. This book deserves to be widely read, and no population in the world is more in need of such a reading than that of the United States. In our consumer- and media-indulged complacency (stupor?), we have nearly ceased questioning our government's actions and its defense of those actions. Instead, we (and the bulk of our mass media) accept and even parrot the \\"party line\\" as long as it conforms to our imagined concept of America the good, savior and benefactor of the human race. Chomsky argues convincingly that in doing so, we are silently condoning a policy of global American dominance that will inevitably spawn backlashes which could threaten our very survival.  <br /> <br />Readers may be put off by Chomsky's continued references to American actions as \\"terrorism,\\" particularly as this has become such a loaded word. However, his point is clear and repeatedly emphasized: we as a country have chosen to call terrorism whatever actions harm our country or its citizens, while virtually identical actions taken against others by us, or conducted under our authorization or support, are justified in the name of defense, freedom, democracy, or counterterrorism. The double standard reveals a shameful national hypocrisy of the most callous sort, and one that certainly contributes heavily to the international perception (affirmed repeatedly in polls and surveys) of the United States as the greatest continuing threat to world peace on the planet.  <br /> <br />Chomsky's critics like to paint him simply as anti-American, but such ad hominem dismissals fail utterly to address his theses. Those who are most negative in their criticisms seldom bother with such annoying things as facts, never offer logical, fact-based counterarguments or refutations. Don't be put off by right wing dogmatists and demagogues who try to argue away dissent by attacking the messenger - read HEGEMONY AND SURVIVAL carefully, think about what it says, and decide for yourself who really represents the principles of democracy. Noam Chomsky demonstrates brilliantly that patriotism and skepticism about one's government are not mutually exclusive, and his most virulent critics only reinforce that notion and enhance the importance of Chomsky's voice.	2004-10-16
US	37234590	RRVSZTOY87E0F	0375415491	920494045	The Light of Day	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Engaging Story of Love and Loss, Betrayal and Redemption	With THE LIGHT OF DAY, the Booker Prize-winning novelist Graham Swift has turned the classical mystery novel on its head. In place of the typical whodunit, he introduces a plot that centers around a private investigator, George Webb, and his more-than-passive involvement with a woman client who unexpectedly murders her unfaithful husband just as Webb has completed his assignment to observe the departure from London to Croatia of the \\"other woman.\\" <br /> <br />THE LIGHT OF DAY is not a detective story - we know from the beginning who is killed, who did the killing, and the ostensible reason. Nothing is hidden from an investigative standpoint, but underneath those surface facts, almost everything is hidden, waiting to be discovered. Swift has written not so much a crime story as the story of a crime. It is an investigation of the lives and motivations of a small constellation of characters orbiting the fatal event: the cheating husband (Bob Nash), his betrayed wife (Sarah Nash), the young Croatian refugee (Katrina) with whom Bob has an affair, the private investigator (George Webb) Sarah hires to verify that Katrina boards the airplane for Switzerland, George's ex-wife (Rachel), his secretary and former client and one night fling (Rita), George's parents and his father's mistress, and the almost-retired police detective (Marsh) who investigates the Nash murder. <br /> <br />Swift guides us in his novel through George Webb's almost Kafkaesque transformation from physical and emotional detachment to an unrequited emotional attachment to Sarah as she serves her prison sentence for murder. George's bond with Sarah is as inescapable for him as Sarah's jail cell is for her, yet both find a sort of long-sought fulfillment in their mutual situation. <br /> <br />Graham Swift tells his story through jump cuts and time shifts among three major story lines: the events surrounding the murder itself, Marsh's investigation of George Webb's role in the murder, and George's fortnightly visit to Sarah in prison on the second anniversary of the murder. Interspersed are lesser threads detailing events surrounding the marital infidelity of George's father and the failed investigation by George into a near-murder by a man named Dyson, a failure that led to George's dismissal from the police force. The result is a fine weave in which each story line complements the others and fills out our understanding of George's character. We gradually come to see the reasons for George's seemingly inexplicable attachment to Sarah despite her crime.  <br /> <br />While the main story line is motivated by a classic love triangle (Sarah, Bob, and Katrina) gone bad, the author fills his story with triangulated relationships: George, Sarah, and Rita; George, Marsh, and Dyson; George's father, mother, and Carol (the mistress); George, Sarah, and Bob; and Sarah, Napoleon III, and the Empress Eugenie. Each triangle plays out simultaneously as Swift cuts between scenes, building our appreciation of George Webb's character and his transformational relationship with Sarah. <br /> <br />Typical of mystery novels, THE LIGHT OF DAY employs short, choppy sentences to create a terse, almost noirish atmosphere. The prose is short on description and long on actions, but Swift's frequent use of rhetorical and hypothetical questions, seemingly addressed to the reader, creates a strong sense of introspection. In the end, we are, like George, left with many unanswered questions about how events such as these come to pass and why we cannot prevent them, only try to suffer through their consequences. As with Sarah and George, we each can hopefully survive our lives' tragedies and find our true place, leaving our fog of confusion and uncertainty and \\"step[ping] out at last into the clear light of day.\\" <br /> <br />THE LIGHT OF DAY is a a winner, a cleverly-constructed and entertaining read, Ellery Queen with a literary bent. Fans of Paul Auster should particularly enjoy this book for its style, atmosphere, and structural execution.	2004-10-16
US	37234590	R2G9NIRG2DK4MP	140135212X	666411206	Attack Poodles and Other Media Mutants: The Looting of the News In a Time of Terror	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Amusing but Shallow Treatment of a Serious Issue	If the Bush Administration has achieved nothing else, it has spawned a massive flow of literature critical of its principals, its actions, and the sprawling, right wing media wolf pack that aids and abets it.  Add to this collection James Wolcott's ATTACK POODLES AND OTHER MEDIA MUTANTS.      Wolcott starts with the premise that a network of conservative media personalities serve the Republican Party as \\"attack poodles,\\" a term he claims originated with the British press in 2002 describing those who defended Tony Blair from any and all criticism.  He introduces the reader to a broad array of these right wing pundits, many familiar, many less so to most readers.  Since they are all variations on essentially the same theme, they read like clones of one another and seem difficult to differentiate.      Wolcott is at his best lambasting and lampooning the behavior and so-called argumentation of his targets, deftly showing their shallowness, their deliberate recklessness with facts, and the absurdity of their claims and positions.  In doing so, he indirectly demonstrates that much of what poses as \\"media\\" today is nothing more than entertainment mixed with propaganda in the service of a cause and rarely in the service of truth.      At his worst, however, Wolcott is shallow himself, tackling too many subjects and too many personalities too quickly.  He goes after anyone and everyone, from Judith Miller to Matt Drudge, from Bob Novak to Dennis Miller, from Peggy Noonan to Maureen Dowd to Howard Fineman to Bill O'Reilly.  This is all well and good, except that in the end, you are left with the feeling that there are only two honest news reporters in America, and one of them is James Wolcott (the other, oddly enough, is Lou Dobbs).  It seems that Mr. Wolcott has an axe to grind with virtually every media personality he's ever seen, met, read, or heard of, as if he'd \\"never met a reporter he didn't hate.\\" If the state of modern journalism is truly so debased, perhaps the author could address more than just its most abject practitioners.    ATTACK POODLES has a great deal to say, and some good points to make, but the author is so stridently negative that it wears you down.  Additionally, he seems to relish prose that, in trying to be hip and funny, comes across as crass and sophomoric, like a high school senior trying to write a Harvard Lampoon story.  Using four-letter words does not add impact or persuasiveness, it just cheapens Mr. Wolcott's arguments.  Nor do ad hominem attacks such as the following (in re Ann Coulter) constitute legitimate or insightful criticism: \\"She is the Paris Hilton of postmodern politics, an elongated zero, a white-hot sex symbol symbolizing nothing.\\"      This is an enjoyable book if you like seeing someone trash Rush, Fox, and company, but read it for the chuckles, not for its analytical depth.  The targets of Mr. Wolcott's ire deserve everything he gives them and much more, but in the end, it's not enough to simply bad-mouth the bad guys for 250 pages. The subject deserves much more serious discussion than Wolcott gives it.  See, for example, Lewis Lapham's GAG RULE or even David Brock's THE REPUBLICAN NOISE MACHINE, or better yet, check out Thomas Frank's WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH KANSAS?  Read ATTACK POODLES for its comic relief, but not much else.  As for the closing chapter on what to do about the situation, follow the advice of Brooklynites who would say, \\"FUGGET ABOUD IT!\\"  One of the lamest book closings I have ever seen, enough to make Roger Ailes laugh all the way to the bank and back again.	2004-10-01
US	37234590	R1O3TYYDSMMGM1	0374209057	446241218	Double Vision: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	Y	Tastes Great, Less Filling	Pat Barker's DOUBLE VISION resolves perfectly the beery \\"brew-haha\\" of Miller Lite's immortal bar argument:  \\"Tastes great!  Less filling!\\"  In this oh-so-faint cousin to English pastoral novels of George Eliot, Jane Austen, and Thomas Hardy, Pat Barker has crafted a writerly but irrelevant novel filled with characterless characters, too-improbable plot contrivances, and pop philosophical conundrums supposedly arising from the great (and noticeably non-Asian, non-African) horrors of the last decade - Afghanistan, Kosovo, and 9/11.  <br /> <br />The novel begins with the heroine, Kate Frobisher, suffering a temporarily debilitating auto accident on an icy country road.  Kate is a sculptress, recently commissioned to create a fifteen-foot statue of (who else?) Christ.  Her late husband Ben has recently died in Afghanistan, working there as a war photographer, and now Ben's partner and boozy friend Stephen arrives to incorporate Ben's work into a book about war and its observers and the meaning of recording such events while not participating (far, far, far better treated in the DVD \\"War Photographer\\" about James Nachtwey).   <br /> <br />Remarkably, Stephen's brother Robert lives close by to Kate, and although Stephen falls for Kate, he falls even harder for Robert's 19-year-old babysitter, Justine (so exotically French!), the only child of the local (and badly divorced) vicar, Alec, who happens to take in ex-cons, one of whom, Peter, becomes Kate's temporary arms and legs in the art studio while she recovers from her accident.  Got all that?  Add in Robert's son Adam, who suffers from Asperger's Syndrome and Peter's Zelig-like personality and surprise criminal past, all shadowed by that indomitable 15-foot Christ statue, and the result is \\"another fine mess\\" as Oliver Hardy used to say. <br /> <br />Barker's style is reservedly British, but her prose is observant and at times compelling if you can look past such Anglicisms as kerb (curb), poofs (gays), and fug (\\"a fug of warmth and music\\", \\"a fug of human bodies and damp wool\\").  She spins a convoluted web of strained family relationships among Robert's and Stephen's family, and between Stephen, Justine, and Alec, and their impact on one other plays at times like a multi-themed concerto.   <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the interjections of BIG IDEAS about war, media, the role of the correspondent/photographer, Goya's representations of war, the fragility of life and our perpetual exposure to random violence and tragedy, even in the English countryside, reduce a novel of manners to Novel Lite.  Nice prose, but too many big ideas too easily tossed off and unexamined, requiring too many plot manipulations to accommodate their presence (or force their presence in the first place).  In the end, after all the dancing around horrific war images of rape and death, sniper bullets through the skull, and 9/11 catastrophes, we're left with Stephen's stunningly banal observation, \\"No experience is valid without the accompanying image.\\" This philosophical gem presents itself just before a day cruise almost turned Titanic reminds us again about life's ever-threatening tragedies.   <br /> <br />In the end, DOUBLE VISION feels more like a gentrified, exurb-London version of CLAN OF THE CAVE BEARS, full of grunts and head-clubbings (literal and figurative, that is) within an artsy, cloistered-almost-to-incestuousness, gossipy, adulterous, self-consciously angst-ridden clan of urban (and faultlessly urbane) transplants.  Only Mrs. Peel and Mr. Steed are missing to complete the tableaux.   <br /> <br />For those seeking this kind of countryside \\"slice of life\\" with a little intrigue, I recommend the more compelling and considerably more artistically satisfying alternatives of Graham Swift's WATERLAND and EVER AFTER and Robertson Davies' THE DEPTFORD TRILOGY.	2004-09-24
US	37234590	R3FY7NVBSTQ9W1	1594200173	23256306	Gag Rule: On the Suppression of Dissent and Stifling of Democracy	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A "COMMON SENSE" for 21st Century America	Lewis Lapham's GAG RULE is an extraordinary little book, a breath of intellectual fresh air in a politicized publishing climate befouled by the intolerant and intolerable Ann Coulter, Bill O'Reilley, Pat Buchanan, and Sean Hannity on the Right and the almost as intolerable James Carville and Michael Moore (among others) on the Left.  In their midst, Mr. Lapham has dropped a pearl, a distant echo to Tom Paine's COMMON SENSE.  But this pearl also harbors a dire warning about the future of liberal democracy, a message that needs to be heard and taken seriously.      Mr. Lapham presents his case for the current diminution of democracy in four essay-style chapters.  Chapter One replays events from the weeks and months following 9/11, decrying a collective institutional failure of criticism and dissent in the lemming-like rush to rally around the flag and demonize all things Muslim.  Lapham's summary of the January, 2002 Super Bowl program is by itself priceless, proving that fact can be just as farcical as the National Lampoon.  Chapter Two skewers the mass media mercilessly for their utter collapse as a factual counterbalance to the Bush Administration's propagandists, demonstrating that the suppression of dissent and the Press's willing complicity has been a recurring behavior pattern throughout American history.  The Patriot Act is only the most recent of a long series of rationalized programs to limit Americans' First Amendment rights.    Chapter Three turns to a philosophical perspective, exploring the reasons why \\"honest and genuinely democratic debate\\" is so difficult to attain in America today. Lapham faults not only the journalism profession but the American educational system, network and cable television, and our growing intellectual sloth.  Finally, Chapter Four addresses the Conservative Republican vision of American Empire and their devotion to force and restraints on liberty in the pursuit of ostensibly higher causes.  Lapham properly accuses Americans ofsloth and indolence, failing to do the work necessary to sustain their own democracy: \\"It is not the law that takes freedom from us but the laziness of our own minds, the unwillingness to think for ourselves...\\"    Mr. Lapham's arguments are powerful, and he marshals history and current events persuasively to his cause.  His prose is incisive and cutting, a pleasure to read and admire.  Two examples:     \\"Suspicious of low-born historical fact, the Republican majorities in both the government and the media belong to the party of transcendence, imagining themselves as bearers of a higher truth, at odds with a world they never made, captivated by the beauty of ideological abstraction, treacherously arraigned by hideous giants and demonic apparitions instead of by the ordinary interests and desires of other human beings.\\" (pg. 136)     \\"As a consequence of civilization's war on terror, America gains immediate access to an unlimited fund of unspecific rage.  In return for so poor a victory, the Bush administration asks the American people to deny their dearest principles, to repudiate their civil liberties and repent of the habit of freedom.  The deal is as shabby as the president's lying photo ops.  For the sake of a vindictive policeman's dream of a tranquil suburb, the country stands to lose the constitutional right to its own name.\\" (pg. 89)    Unfortunately, I finished the book only to confront the gnawing and unaddressed question, \\"So what do we do about it?\\"  Here, GAG RULE falls far short, offering no program, suggestions, or agenda for reclaiming democracy beyond his exhortations not to be so intellectually lazy.      Nevertheless, Lewis Lapham has penned a truly alarming book, one that should strike deep concern in the hearts of Americans who believe in the principles of democracy.  Sadly, in a culture now more concerned with Brittany and J. Lo than Lady Liberty, more caught up in who survives on Vanuatu and in Donald's boardroom than in the survival of our Constitutional principles, more involved in fantasy sports and Oprah than in elections, and more willing to be demagogued by Rush and Fox News than read a newspaper and think for themselves (perhaps they are just following their President's example), GAG RULE is unlikely to achieve the readership it deserves.  Even more sadly, as past reviews on Amazon attest, it will be read most by those who need it the least and ignored by those who need it the most, including the entire Bush Administration.     Bravo, Mr. Lapham!	2004-09-21
US	37234590	R29SKGZVZ92WT6	0375423079	557567469	In the Shadow of No Towers (Pantheon Graphic Novels)	Books	2	22	31	N	N	This Maus Doesn't Roar	I picked up Art Spiegelman's latest work from the bookstore table, nearly breathless with anticipation as to how he would transform a devastating and deeply personal experience into an artistic statement.  The first thing I noticed was the book's oversized format, followed by dismay at the cardboard thickness of each page, and then bitter disappointment at the realization that it contained only 19 pages, seven of which were devoted to a history of American comic strips and examples loosely applicable to the events of September 11, 2001.    IN THE SHADOW OF NO TOWERS offers brief and frequently clever illustrations and adaptations of Spiegelman's unique style to 9/11 and the ensuing events, from the Patriot Act to the Iraq war to the Republican National Convention in NYC. The author represents himself alternately in human form and as a character from the MAUS books, and a six-panel, anti-Bush diatribe entitled \\"Weapons of Mass Displacement\\" is brilliantly executed. Images such as a billboard of Arnold Schwarzenegger promoting the movie Collateral Damage and the pixilated, heat-glowing, steel tower dissolving before our eyes are further haunting tributes to the author's powerful vision and technique. These are Art Spiegelman at his best, mixing irony, pathos, rage, resignation, and tragedy in an enthralling comic book form.      Despite these wonderfully creative touches, the agenda is simply too gargantuan, the issues too complicated, and the feelings too confused and complex to resolve in just 12 pages. As a result, this book is deep unsatisfying - so much potential not realized, so much emotion so sharply and bizarrely truncated by a demi-lecture on the Katzenjammer Kids, Krazy Kat, and Bringing Up Father.       IN THE SHADOW OF NO TOWERS comes across as bitter and unfocused. a self-pitying wallow in the events of 9/11 and their aftermath.  Spiegelman wants us to feel his anxiety as he and his wife search hysterically for their daughter that morning, his inabilityto make sense of what he has seen, his anger at the loss, his insecurities in the aftermath, and his outrage at the Bush Administration's co-opting of a tragedy to promote their own political agenda. The feelings are no doubt genuine and not without merit, but their presentation seems more self-indulgent than self-exploratory.    Spiegelman's work feels scattershot, lashing out simultaneously in several different directions while remarkably managing to say almost nothing about those who died that day.  The jumbled mixture of formats, characters, and images may indeed represent the chaos of that terrible day, but something more deeply examined is called for. The result here is as unsettling as it is unsatisfying, like watching someone scrape the scabs off a series of wounds and then leaving them there, bleeding.      In his opening pages, Spiegelman laments his slowness in developing his graphic works, noting that it took him thirteen years to deal with World War II. IN THE SHADOW OF NO TOWERS graphically proves his point all too effectively - perhaps it is too soon to write about 9/11, perhaps he does indeed require another ten years before he tries it again.  In the end, I found myself wondering how such an incomplete work on such a gut-wrenching subject could have reached publication for any reason other than opportunism.	2004-09-08
US	37234590	R170RM5N2ZP0MN	0231131968	114244511	A Private Life (Weatherhead Books on Asia)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Powerful Feminist Voice from China	Chen Ran's A PRIVATE LIFE is a small and quiet novel that I simply could not put down, offering up a powerful and beautifully written examination of universal themes: the attainment of womanhood, women's social and sexual roles, their relationships with one another, and the psychological traumas often inflicted upon them by the men in their lives (fathers, teachers, boyfriends, lovers).  This book is simultaneously a coming of age story and a deeply moving exploration of a solitary and tortured soul unable (or unwilling) to cope with the world presented to her. <br /> <br />A PRIVATE LIFE traces the main character, Ni Niuniu, from age eleven to adulthood.  Born in 1968, Niuniu traces the arc of her life against the evolving state of women's consciousness in China during the last thirty years of the century.  Told entirely in the first person, the narrator provides us a deeply introspective, almost surreal view of her maturation as a sexual being and her difficulties coping with her feelings in a sexually repressed society.  Chen Ran's approach is at times humorous, at times sensual, and at times dark to the point of paranoia. She has limned a character who increasingly shuts herself off from the world around her until there is little left but her bathtub, which she has converted into her bed, and a fantasy world she has constructed to shelter herself from the harsh realities beyond her door. <br /> <br />Chen Ran's short novel is sad without being maudlin, sensual without being sexual, and horrifying without being melodramatic.  She has drawn a character whom we feel compelled to reach out to, to care for, and yet we know that she is beyond help as we watch her personal world evaporate and her mental world deteriorate.  The prose is rich in imagery, sharp and evocative from the very first page:  \\"As if being devoured by a huge, pitiless rat, time withers away moment by moment and is lost....Only death, the tombstone over our graves, can stop it.\\"  <br /> <br />A PRIVATE LIFE is a truly literary work, easily readable and profoundly moving. It is perhaps the most un-Chinese of the many Chinese novels I have read, reaching a universal plane that frees it from time and place.  Sadly, Chen Ran will not likely be widely read in the United States; it is our loss.  A PRIVATE LIFE deserves a very large public audience which I fear it will never attain.  If you read this review, I urge you to read Chen Ran's wonderful novel; you will not be disappointed.	2004-09-08
US	37234590	R1PGKJXQTW5GP6	0743483561	976808375	Translations of Beauty: A Novel	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Moderately Contrary Opinion	In TRANSLATIONS OF BEAUTY, Mia Yun combines a tale of the Korean immigrant experience in America with a dissection of a family's unrealized expectations, marital infidelities, sibling love and rivalry, and the physical and psychological scarring from a family tragedy.  Unfortunately, Ms. Yun's vehicle simply cannot carry such a heavy load and ends up as an interesting story which tells us nothing new about any of these issues.      The book intertwines two chronological story lines.  One narrative thread follows twin sisters Yunah (the story's narrator) and Inah as they grow up in Flushing, Queens, the largest Korean immigrant neighborhood in New York.  The family's emigration to America is precipitated by a terrible home accident in Korea when young Inah tips a pot of scalding water onto her face, scarring her for life and instantly guaranteeing her place as an outcast in her homeland.  As the twins grow, they battle the difficulties of being outsiders in a foreign world, compounded by Inah's sense of rejection because of her disfigurement.        The second story line follows Yunah's trip to Italy to see her globetrotting, dropout sister and perhaps reconcile their relationship.  Through their travels, Yunah's feelings of guilt and Inah's sense of isolation slowly melt away as they achieve, if not full reconciliation, at least a new level of mutual understanding.      Yunah as narrator is most effective telling an immigrant child's experiences in acculturation, but she is far less helpful exploring her mother's feelings, Inah's frustrations and alienation, and especially her father's sense of personal failure and his affair with another woman.  We see the events through a child or adolescent's eyes, but those eyes lack the maturity to explore the motivations and feelings of the adult characters.     We never truly get to know these characters, lessening the author's ability to explore the issues she has raised.  In particular, Inah's isolation and turmoil can onlybe seen through her outward actions.  An obviously tortured soul who has spent her young life coping with people's automatically aversive reactions, we never come to experience what she has had to live with and the hardships she has faced being an outsider in every community she enters simply because of a childhood accident.  The twins' mother becomes a Korean version of a Jewish mother, scarred by her own guilt and driving her unfortunate daughter academically in compensation.  Worse, Yun emasculates their father, oddly painting him as a sensitive lover of nature and shallowly capricious in his sudden departure and return to the family.    The novel's greatest shortcoming comes in its ostensible resolution of the twin sisters' relationship - the core element of the novel.  As Yunah's two-week visit with Inah in Italy comes to an end, Yun forces her narrator to begin a series of surprisingly superficial pronouncements about her family situation: that Inah's abandoning her doctoral studies at Oxford \\"couldn't have been a decision she had made lightly,\\" that \\"the truth is we can never experience the exact same thing twice,\\" that \\"what we have now has to be good enough,\\" that \\"memories...have a way of haunting and taunting,\\" that \\"all we can do is just to go on,\\" and that \\"everything changes and heals and fades away over time.\\" Meager rewards after 300 pages, polished pebbles from the waters of the same river we can never cross twice rather than true pearls of insight.      TRANSLATIONS OF BEAUTY manages to tell an engaging story with interesting characters.  Furthermore, Ms. Yun's prose style, with its occasional machine-gun style and sudden bursts of rainbow-like colorature, is potent and evocative.  In the end though, the book feels hollow, like a missed opportunity for something much more than she gives us.	2004-08-16
US	37234590	R1S3BHPTXC7YCY	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Escapist Nonfiction about an Escapist Town	Ben Mezrich's BRINGING DOWN THE HOUSE is a marvelous book, a nonfictional account of beating the house in Las Vegas that reads like a Ludlum thriller. Even though I am not a &quot;casino person&quot; or a patron of Las Vegas or Atlantic City, I was captivated by this book within the first twenty pages and couldn't put it down. What more can you ask of an inside story than that it be so entertaining?      Mezrich tells his story through the eyes and actions of Kevin Lewis, an MIT pre-med student recruited into a blackjack syndicate engineered by a former MIT professor named Mickey Rosa. We watch Kevin's eye-opening introduction to high roller life in Vegas, then follow him as he learns the System: card counting techniques, the art of determining when a blackjack table is hot, and how the con is pulled off by assuming outrageous character roles. As Kevin becomes increasingly consumed by the thrill of beating the casinos, his personality, his values, and his life change dramatically.       BRINGING DOWN THE HOUSE maintains a great sense of pacing, bringing us into the System enough to appreciate its workings and to feel the pressure of always needing to be one step ahead of the casinos. Mezrich explains the rules of chance and probability admirably, making the underlying mathematics understandable to any non-mathematical layman. More Vegas-knowledgeable readers may find things to quibble with in this book, and some may tire reading about such intellectual prima donnas and being told how extraordinarily intelligent they are. Mezrich's yarn is so well told that most readers will be captivated by this inside look at the high roller casino world and willing to overlook such minor objections.       Mezrich neither moralizes about his characters' actions nor philosophizes about gambling as a business that preys on human greed and frailty. However, his book does raise the question why such talented and intellectually capable young men and women would forego their academic careers to enter a sleezy, bottom-feeding, culturally bankrupt world? Big money and fast women were no doubt attractions, but like computer hacking, it seems to have been mostly about beating the system at its own game. For these high school nerds turned MIT nerds, finding such a non-conforming, adrenalin-engaging use of their mental talents might have been the high school jock's equivalent of getting a shot at the NBA or NFL.	2004-08-05
US	37234590	R2341OE0AC84N8	0393059197	446185011	Inheritance	Books	5	51	54	N	N	A Lyrical and Deeply Felt First Novel	Several years ago, Lan Samantha Chang's magical and marvelous novella and short story collection HUNGER explored the sense of alienation, loss, and generational disjuncture of the immigrant experience in America. With INHERITANCE, she joins the ranks of Amy Tan, Anchee Min, Hong Ying, and Ha Jin as fictional chroniclers of Chinese history and the bridges Chinese people have constructed between their home country and America.   <br /> <br />Lan Samantha Chang has crafted in INHERITANCE a sweeping novel whose characters lives' shadow the arc of 20th Century China, from the earliest days of the Republic to the modern era.  Passing through the Japanese invasion, the Communist Liberation, the Cultural Revolution, the Taiwanese diaspora, and the opening to the West, the book moves from tranquil Hangzhou to war-torn Chongqing, from the temporary home of Kuomintang hopefuls in Taiwan to the permanent concession of the KMT's loss represented by the United States.   <br /> <br />Ms. Chang's first full-length novel follows the fortunes of the Wang family through three generations and beyond, from old Chanyi to her daughters Junan and Yinan and then to their daughters Hong and Hwa and one son, Yao.  While Hong provides the narrative voice (and the source of the existential question framed by the novel's title), her mother Junan is the novel's focal point, the eye of a family storm generated by her own choices as well as historical events beyond her control.  The triangular relationship between Junan, her husband Li Ang, and her sister Yinan spawns unintended consequences that profoundly affect each other's lives and those around them.   <br /> <br />Just as modern China is both the victim and inheritor of its own past, Ms. Chang's characters are the product of their respective pasts, inheriting character traits and the after-effects of embittered relationships from those who came before them.  The author raises the question of who we are as individuals, and how much of our lives are directed by our inheritance from the lives and events of our parents and grandparents.   <br /> <br />On one level, INHERITANCE can be read as a multi-generational family saga dominated by the force of will of one member.  From this viewpoint, it is a story of parental and conjugal relationships, about broken trust and willingness to forgive.   <br /> <br />Yet on another level, the book mirrors the story of China itself, with the major characters representing the different Chinas of the 20th Century.  With her partially bound feet and superstitions, old Chanyi represents the last of imperial China.  Junan, her oldest daughter, is the Republic, rigidly bound to tradition but striving for independence.  Bookish Yinan represents the philosophical foundation of Communist China, the carefree militarist Li Ang represents Chiang Kai-shek's Kuomingtang, and Li Ang's brother Li Bing represents the spirit of revolution, the Communist Party in action. Daughter Hong, whose name translates conveniently as Red and who is the inheritor of this historical chaos, ultimately represents the internationalized China, integrated into the Western world in a way she could never have foreseen in her childhood.   <br /> <br />Not surprisingly, these characters find it next to impossible to reconcile themselves to one another.  Only the open and modernized Hong is truly able to accept and love her entire family, overlooking the shortcomings in each and aware of her own failings as well.   <br /> <br />Ms. Chang creates a Russian novel's worth of intriguing minor characters who complement the major players admirably.  Characters like Li Bing, Hu Mudan, Hu Ran, Wang Daming, Pu Taitai, Chen Da-Huan, and Hsiao Meiyu capture our interest in their own right, adding colorful flavor and contrast to the main characters.  Her female characters are rich and fully developed, while her male characters feel moderately less so.  Only the missionary Katherine Rodale and Hong's American husband, Tom, seem to fall flat, but perhaps this is Chang's commentary on the blandness of white American family life.  <br /> <br />INHERITANCE offers an engaging story of a decidedly matriarchal family finding its way along the currents of history.  Along the way, readers will absorb elements of Chinese life and culture, and a smattering of Mandarin vocabulary as well.  This is a richly satisfying first novel that leaves me anxiously anticipating Ms. Chang's future works.  <br />	2004-08-03
US	37234590	R2E42JSL23ER56	0312423586	82302003	The Great Fire	Books	2	45	55	N	N	The Great Fire Fizzles	Shirley Hazzard's A GREAT FIRE is undoubtedly a literary accomplishment, but not the sort that inflames people's imaginations or reveals great truths. Rather, in the twenty-two years since her publication of THE TRANSIT OF VENUS in 1981, it seems as if Ms. Hazzard has traveled backward at least those same twenty-two years, to 1959 or earlier. Her distance from her own characters and the coldness of her writing style are reminiscent of times long since past. Sadly, we have here Faulkner without the sense of atmosphere or place, Hardy without the intensity of feeling, Dickens without the sense of social purpose, Cormac McCarthy without the vernacular, and Marquez without the imagination.  <br />  <br /> Ms. Hazzard writes about the immediate aftermath of World War II, a world of ruin and survivorship and desperate returns to normalcy in spite of deep loss and physical and psychic scars. The story takes place largely in China and Japan, partially in Hong Kong and Australia, and partially in Italy and England. Yet despite the potential to evoke intense feeling about these places, the author gives us almost no sense of place, little sense of loss, and virtually no sense of the ruin inflicted on the native peoples of those countries. Japan and China feel no different than Cincinnati in this book, unless one allows for a scantly-portrayed ritual suicide early in the story.  <br />  <br /> I began this book with great expectations. A post-war Japanese setting, particularly involving Nagasaki and Hiroshima, offered enormous potential for exploring the psyche of the conquering Western forces upon viewing the devastation wreaked by their own weaponry. In THE GREAT FIRE, however, the after-effects of the war are virtually invisible, as if they never happened. We see none of the Japanese or Chinese citizen-survivors, only the stiff-upper-lipped British and Australians and a couple of crudely-drawn Americans. The effect is haughtily and unabashedly Eurocentric, as if the torturedsoul of a thirtyish Brit for the love of a teenager carries more relevance than the suffering innocent civilians of Nanjing or Hiroshima whom we never even glimpse. <br />  <br /> Perhaps Ms. Hazzard's intention was to criticize implicitly the Westerners' self-distancing from the horrors they inflicted at Hiroshima. If such were the case, then the main characters must engage the readers instead. Instead, we have a main character with all the warmth and personality of Alan Greenspan, a 17-year-old Lolita with a preternaturally mature (and mortally ill) younger brother, and an assortment of horrid parental role models lifted from Dr. Phil. THE GREAT FIRE is populated throughout with stereotypes and characters so artificially drawn, so lacking in warmth and feeling, that it is hard to care whether they live or die, whether they resolve their lots or suffer. Two major characters die sadly and unfairly in this book, but I found myself utterly unmoved, hardly caring for their fate. Even their dialog is cold and unrealistic. I found myself completely disbelieving that anyone has talked in this style since 1900. <br />  <br /> Beyond the stiffness of Ms. Hazzard's character portrayals and dialog, I must also mention her writing. Good novelists write good prose to evoke feeling, but also to enhance their story. As I read THE GREAT FIRE, I could imagine Ms. Hazzard at her writing desk, sitting back every five or ten minutes to admire her own cleverness. Unfortunately, much of her writing is too clever by half, as if her wordsmithing mattered far to her than the story line. Examples of such stilted and meaningless phraseology abound; here are a few brief examples from dozens I noted.  <br />  <br /> &quot;Charlotte's carroty curls were bound with colored ribbons. Her pretty frocks were smocked over her diminutive chest.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;The hill above the tiny town was gravid in the way of that landscape, its grassy garment stretched like soft cloth over an imaginedanatomy of ancient, unremembered walls, graves, and ditches; a tumid rise, over which you might mentally pass your hand.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;He was aware of some consequential element that he had not identified. And with indifference realised it was beauty.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;Good fortune is a prodigy whose occasion one must rise to.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;In the angle of a corridor, against a distempered wall, there was a hard bench that made a trio with two steel chairs.&quot; <br />  <br /> Readers who enjoy writing for its own cleverness, or who want to read a serious writer regardless whether there is a story to engage them or a point to be had, will find THE GREAT FIRE worthwhile for its 278 pages' worth of turns of phrase. Most readers, I fear, will be put off by the pacing and by the unbelievability of the characters. For me, this was a book with far too much smoke to make a great fire.	2004-07-26
US	37234590	R2OJ263U6QG6WX	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	325	366	N	N	Orwell was right about 1984, and Thomas Frank explains 2004	In his book 1984, George Orwell described the state of perpetual war in his fictional future society by saying that the war wasn't meant to be won, it was only meant to be continuous.  In WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH KANSAS?, Thomas Frank illustrates how, and how effectively, the neoconservative right has implemented Orwell's concepts via a neverending war over culture and values. <br />Using his home state of Kansas as the model and focal point, Frank asks rhetorically why it is that Kansans so willingly espouse right-wing social issues (creationism, defunding public schools, prayer in schools, pro-life) while simultaneously allowing their state to become economically devastated by Republican free market policies of unfettered, unregulated capitalism.  In other words, why do Kansans (and many other Red Staters) vote consistently against their pocketbooks, against their own economic self-interest?  <br />With great specificity, Frank illustrates these behaviors and their devastating economic consequences by describing individuals and communities in Kansas.  These are some of the strongest parts of his book, since they demonstrate through real people and real towns how life has changed, and continues to change, under Republican conservative rule.  If anything, Frank could use more of these examples, particularly more description of some of the small towns and communities in his state that are dying a slow and tortured economic death.  Regardless, the examples given convey the sense that Kansans are voting Red even as they vote themselves economically dead.  <br />Frank correctly ascribes this seemingly self-contradictory behavior to the idea that Conservatives have discovered a means to incite permanent \\"backlash\\" among the Red Staters through culture wars.  Whatever the issue, whether it's Janet Jackson's right breast or gay marriage in Massachusetts, Conservative politicians whip up fierce indignation and activism by threatening the loss of American moral values to the eastern, intellectual elite who support the denigration of those values and the denial of moral absolutes.  And, as Frank points out, despite years of bitter denunciation, almost nothing has changed.  The war rages on, but the Conservatives rarely win even a skirmish.<br />By focusing attention on culture issues, the Conservatives not only distract their followers from economic concerns, they remove capitalism itself as an issue.  For Red Staters, capitalism is a natural force, and free markets are an absolute good.  Concerns about environment, globalization, estate taxes, Wal-Martization, health and welfare all disappear, since laissez-faire is an inviolable principle.  Capitalism cannot and must not be regulated in this worldview, and any restrictions and regulations designed to \\"thwart\\" it are necessarily wrong if not evil.  The fact that culture itself -- MTV, Hollywood, Howard Stern, Fear Factor -- is a capitalist product that follows the same profit motivations goes unnoticed.  In Kansas, as in most places, there is no connection in people's minds between culture and capitalism.<br />Frank has put his thumb directly on the source of America's current problems, the so-called Red State, Blue State divide.  As I write this review on July 9, 2004, the United States remains embroiled in Iraq and Afghanistan, our standing in the world is at an all-time low, Tom Ridge is warning against another imminent  Al-Qaeda attack, the country is hemorrhaging jobs, young kids can less and less afford to go to college, gas and milk prices have soared to all-time highs, working men and women can't make ends meet even with two or more jobs, millions are without health insurance, the President claims the power to arrest and detain anyone he chooses without legal representation, and our education system is becoming enslaved to meaningless standardized tests.  What solutions does our Republican President and Republican legislative branch offer?  The Senate is too busy preparing for anall-out legislative war over a Constitutional amendment banning gay marriage to worry about real problems.  The newspaper every day tells us just how correct Thomas Frank is in his analysis.  Kansas isn't just Kansas, Kansis is us!  <br />Anyone who truly wants to understand today's upside-down political world, who wants to understand how middle class people can enthusiastically support tax cuts that give them nothing and the rich more money and power, should read WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH KANSAS?  Mr. Frank offers clear and straightforward explanation of this bizarre phenomenon, and his insights and implications should send chills down the spines of those who espouse a free, fair, and open society.  To quote Frank's closing line:  that the \\"fever-dream of martyrdom that Kansas follows today...invites us all to join in, to lay down our lives so others might cash out at the top; to renounce forever our middle-American prosperity in pursuit of a crimson fantasy of middle-American righteousness.\\"  How much better can it be said?	2004-07-09
US	37234590	R317D9D1IQO5N3	0802133894	974005111	Black Snow	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Bleak but Overcooked Slice of Beijing Life	Life in China certainly can be difficult, but the same could be said for most parts of the world.  Liu Heng's 1993 novel, BLACK SNOW, presents the world of Beijing as seen through the eyes of a miscreant, a rolling pin-wielding brawler who has just been released from prison and must find a place for himself in society.  The main character, Li Huiquan, finds himself incapable of connecting with anyone, neither his neighbors nor his old friends nor any of the women he meets.  Liu presents Li as emotionally stunted, a hate-filled and violent child in a man's body, as lacking in human warmth and sympathy as the totalitarian system in which he lives.  Li Huiquan is also a mysogynist, simultaneously desirous, terrified, and hateful of women, living his romances as fantasies, completely disconnected from the real world.  In American society, Li Huiquan could have become a rapist or serial killer.  In China, he remains an adult virgin, clueless about how to relate to women and unable to comprehend what motivates them.    BLACK SNOW presents occasional interesting snippets of life in China, but most of the novel is interior dialogue, heavily freighted by Huiquan's repetitive musings about loneliness and the meaning of life.  Many of his observations are trite, from the \\"Why am I the only one who thinks life sucks?\\" category of philosophical insight.  Readers are treated to multiple variations on the same notions, that women are vain and superficial, that men only look out for themselves, and that friends are just users who cannot be trusted.      The main character is improbably twice orphaned, and the violent ending is so contrived as to make the entire story feel overly scripted.  In places, Liu's prose offers promise, and a few characters such as the neighborhood police officer Liu Baotie stand on their own, as unique and original characters.  For the rest, BLACK SNOW is a small step above a Chinese Ellery Queen or Dashiel Hammett, drawing a disturbing picture of a disturbed man struggling for existence and trying not to get pulled into the underside of Beijing life.      BLACK SNOW is an interesting read for the atmosphere Liu Heng creates, even if he does overdo it.  Not many Chinese novels have dealt with the reality of such marginal existences, carried out at the edge of the law, so Liu's effort is intriguing even if the quality of the work is less than stellar.  Novels by Su Tong and Mo Yan, and even Wang Shuo and Ha Jin, are probably better choices for first-time readers of modern Chinese literature, and those who want to read a nonfiction version of the dark side of Chinese life are advised to look into RED DUST by Ma Jian.  Nevertheless, Liu Heng is a voice that deserves to be read, with the hope that more and better will follow in the coming years.	2004-06-26
US	37234590	ROPMHWDUJPV0P	1586482475	787803321	Idiot Proof: A Short History Of Modern Delusions	Books	3	22	27	N	N	No Proof in IDIOT PROOF	The dust jacket depicts cartoonish figures of Princess Diana, Deepak Chopra, Noam Chomsky, Hillary Clinton, Pat Buchanan, and Ayatollah Khomeini, accompanied by carnival-print phrases like &quot;Deluded Celebrities&quot; and &quot;Media Morons.&quot;  The back cover offers a testimonial that IDIOT PROOF is a companion to Michael Moore's STUPID WHITE MEN.  Whatever this book is, it decidedly does not belong with anything by Michael Moore.  Furthermore, the contents of this book are rather substantially different than the expose-style cover would suggest.  Tony Blair, Margaret Thatcher, and Francis Fukuyama, and Alan Sokal occupy far more of this book's content than Hillary Clinton and Pat Buchanan.  The latter have clearly and misleadingly been pasted onto the cover to attract American buyers.  Then again, how many Americans would buy this book if its cover was plastered with head shots of Diana, Tony, and Margaret surrounded by Immanuel Kant, Jacques Derrida, Noam Chomsky, Tom Friedman, and Jacques Lacan?  <br />IDIOT PROOF is an extraordinarily difficult book to categorize, in part because it feels like it was written by an ADHD sufferer.  The book skips wildly from philosophy to economics to pop culture to globalization to Marxism to Islamic fundamentalism to the dot.com bubble to the sins of left-wing liberalism and the IMF to Enron.  In the end, it is difficult to know who the idiots are and what their delusions are, since the only common thread seems to arise out of a specious argument that Margaret Thatcher led a revolt against the rational principles of the Age of Enlightment.  So Americans can apparently blame Dame Maggie for everything from irrational exuberance to Paris Hilton, from aromatherapy to UFO sightings at Area 51.  <br />Following an opening discourse on Immanuel Kant, Chapter 1 traces the new Victorianism of Margaret Thatcher's ministry.  The next chapter deals with the inflated importance of gurus from Tom Peters, Stephen Covey and Deepak Chopra to Anthony Robbins, John Gray, and Jeffrey Robbins, a subject that seems consistent with the book's title and cover depictions. <br />The next chapter jumps to a bizarre discourse on Francis Fukuyama and Samuel Huntington, followed by a chapter on structuralism, deconstructionism and the post-modernist critics from Derrida to Lacan to Stanley Fish, wrapped up with a riff on creationism in Kansas.  <br />Chapter 5 gets seemingly back on point with an amusing discussion of popular delusions and quackery, ranging from Nostradamus to homeopathy to UFO's and the Book of Revelation.  Much of the remainder of the book wanders through religious fundamentalism, the military-industrial complex, Al Gore's tobacco farm, Lady Diana worship,Thomas Friedman, the East India Company, the World Bank, Enron, Islamic fundamentalism, and finally to Pol Pot and Noam Chomsky.  The wrap-up says it all -- those who reject rationalism and the Enlightenment live in darkness and threaten to take the rest of us with them. <br />Individual chapters in IDIOT PROOF are generally interesting in themselves, but the whole is less than the sum of its parts.  In the end, this book lacks a strong enough connecting thread to tie together such wildly disparate topics and their odd juxtapositions.  It hardly seems necessary to use 287 pages to make the point that rationalism is more rational than religious fundamentalism and New Age mumbo-jumbo, and in the end, there appears to little notion as to what to do about it.  The author offers little hope, and the dust jacket lamely suggests that &quot;we might just think a little more and believe a little less.&quot;  Yeah, I guess that pretty well solves the problem, doesn't it?  <br />IDIOT PROOF is less than its cover suggests, but also more than the puffery displayed in the cover design.  Buy this book for its depth of thought on some complex intellectual topics and its deft puncturing of cults, spiritualism, self-help, and a host of left-wing shibboleths.But don't buy this book as a trashing of pop culture, and definitely don't buy it as a companion piece to Michael Moore.	2004-06-16
US	37234590	R3LAB93M4LNWU	0060575557	72383166	Buying a Fishing Rod for My Grandfather: Stories	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Six Prose Paintings	Reading the six short stories in Gao Xing Jian's BUYING A FISHING ROD FOR MY GRANDFATHER is like wandering into a small gallery containing six Impressionist paintings.  Each story paints a quiet verbal picture of loss and gain, of change, of solitary existence and the consolations of love and family.  Gao's works seem nearly plotless, vignettes which  create scenes and atmosphere more than story lines.  Then again, life consists of such brief moments and experiences; stories are the fictions we create to connect and give personal meaning to these separate moments.  <br />Gao's technique varies from story to story.  His opening work, &quot;The Temple,&quot; describes the spontaneous actions of a honeymooning couple as they disembark from a train to explore a decaying hillside temple.  The story, written in standard prose form, speaks achingly of history and loss, of life moving forward in spite of past tragedies.  The second story, &quot;In the Park,&quot; switches almost completely to dialog between two nameless acquaintances who meet by coincidence in a park and reclaim their childhood memories as another young woman sits crying on a nearby park bench.  <br />The third story, &quot;The Cramp,&quot; gives a harrowing account of a casual swimmer who nearly dies alone within sight of the shore, only to discover when he makes it ashore that no one has noticed.  The next story, &quot;The Accident,&quot; tells nearly the same story in a moment by moment account of a fatal traffic accident on a Beijing street.  The police arrive and take care of the situation, street cleaners come to remove the broken bicycle and wipe the blood from the streets, and life continues on anonymously, as if the death never occurred.  <br />The title story follows, offering a powerful account of a neighborhood no longer recognizable to its main character who had lived there as a boy.  The story conveys a sense of loss and disorienting change, of a simple way of life no longer to be found.  <br/>The stories in this collection were written between 1983 and 1990, about the same time Gao was completing his novel SOUL MOUNTAIN.  The writing is simple and direct, yet it creates memorable images and a strong sense of atmosphere.  Despite being written by China's first Nobelist in Literature, these are not stories about China or Chinese culture.  Several of these stories offer no sense of place or culture - they could be taking place anywhere in the world.  Perhaps this is a reflection of Gao's status as an expatriate in Paris.  <br />For those who enjoy modern Chinese and Chinese-American literature by the likes of Mo Yan, Su Tong, Ha Jin, and Liu Heng, Gao Xing Jian's BUYING A FISHING ROD FOR MY GRANDFATHER stands out for its daring style and its sublimation of Chinese culture to more universal settings and themes.  In that respect, Gao is stylistically closer to Japanese writers like Kenzaburo Oe and Haruki Murakami than any Chinese writer I have yet encountered.  Anyone who reads this book will likely be motivated to pick up a copy of SOUL MOUNTAIN or ONE MAN'S BIBLE.	2004-06-06
US	37234590	R2VEG8J8L8XTF2	0151010188	524376144	The Cheating Culture: Why More Americans Are Doing Wrong to Get Ahead	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Cheating Does Pay	David Callahan's The Cheating Culture, is a flawed but nonetheless important book, particularly in the current, Republican-controlled era of free markets, loosening regulations, and tax policy favoring the wealthiest Americans.  The examples are hardly original and mostly well-known, and the premises are relatively simple:  that cheaters cheat because it's easier, because the payoffs are constantly getting bigger, and because the penalties border on non-existent.  The scope is so wide that the book lacks depth, and the author's final prescriptions seem quaintly idealistic.  What could easily be a nice article in The Atlantic Monthly fills an entire book here, making the text feel rather repetitive at times.<br />All of that being said, The Cheating Culture is still a worthwhile read.  The very width of the scope is telling in itself, since it serves as a reminder of just how widespread cheating has become in American life.  The effect is demoralizing for the reader, particularly when one recalls how different, and how much more moral, and self-monitoring, life was in the 1950's.   <br />Callahan brings together the corner-cutting, law-bending, and outright illegal examples of cheating from all aspects of modern life in America, from small-scale cheating on exams in high school or lying about one's age for the Little League (Danny Altamonte) to corporate cheating by the likes of WorldCom and Enron.  He addresses tax fraud, false advertising, promotion of legal drugs for uses other than those approved by the FDA, improper billing by lawyers, and touting of dot.com stocks by Wall Street analysts who knew the underlying companies were poor investments.  Not all readers may be familiar with all his examples, so their mere breadth may be eye-opening for some who have not really put two and two together before.  <br />Callahan's strongest contribution is his linkage of income disparity to the culture of cheating.  The premise is not likely his original insight, but it connects the growing divide between the wealthy and the working poor to the willingness of nearly everyone to justify cheating because \\"everyone else does it.\\"  The author suggests that more and more average people will do anything to become part of the Winning Class, the wealthy few who have all the advantages and keep getting richer.  <br />What's interesting about this book is also what the author does not discuss.  He eschews religion as a counterweight to morality, preferring to focus on the vague notion of ethics.  He also gives little insight into behavior in other countries, whether increased cheating is just an American cultural phenomenon or is endemic in the modern world.  He short-changes the media's role in glorifying winners, and perhaps most significantly, he fails adequately to trace the cheating trend to its sources, the market glorifying, deregulated era initiated by Ronald Reagan.  While cheating certainly existed before Reagan's Presidency, the current wave, and the government's inabilty to control it, surely began with cutting funding for the SEC and the IRS, loosening government regulations and controls, and establishing trickle-down economics as the basis for government economic and tax policy.   <br />Personally, I was saddened by the very notion that such a book was so easy to put together.  No special research was required, and no new scandals needed to be uncovered.  Cheating has become such a part of American life that we can find it everywhere.  From government to religious institutions, from education to sports to medicine, we cynically assume that everyone cheats, or will cheat, given the opportunity.  <br />Callahan has attempted to pull this all together and offer some suggestions for how to change it.  The effort is a noble one, but quixotic.  Someone or something far bigger than a book will be necesary to shift America's moral compass.  Still, the topic is worth talking about.  This book might be most effective if read and discussed byhigh school and college students, those who can perhaps still be dissuaded from joining the Cheating Culture.	2004-06-05
US	37234590	R3U9UAB3O3XDIZ	0375700021	810736975	The Gangster We Are All Looking For	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Six Stars for a Poetic First Novel!	Le thi diem thuy has penned an extraordinary first novel in The Gangster We Are All Looking For, worth six stars if such a rating were offered.  Unlike so many books today, le offers the reader a work which truly follows the writerly dictum, \\"Show, don't tell.\\"  Her work is a prose poem, lyrical in style, a masterpiece of understatement and mystery, beautifully  combined with a childlike sense of magical realism.  This is the new immigrant's experience in America, with all its confusion, loneliness, personal and familial disconnection, and the sense of loss of one's roots, of all that was once so familiar and normal.  <br />At the center of the novel is the author/narrator, a nameless young Vietnamese girl who struggles desperately to cope with her sudden dislocation from her home country to Southern California, the absence of her mother, and the loss of her older brother.  At the same time, she must decode the mysteries of American life, technology, and culture:  the mysterious power landlords and bosses exert over her father, the racist behavior of schoolmates who begin referring to all Southeast Asian immigrant students as \\"Yang,\\"  to the awakening sexual behavior of neighborhood boys.  A wonderfully-rendered episode early in the book gives a child's-eye view of glass animal figurines and a butterfly encased in glass.  The narrator's magical fascination with the butterfly faintly recalls a butterfly scene in Garcia Marquez's \\"One Hundred Years of Solitude,\\" although the scene in this book ends in unfortunate consequences for the little girl and her family. <br />The Gangster We Are All Looking For is not written in a strictly chronological sequence, but le's non-linear approach adds to the sense of childlike wonder as well as its sense of permanent loss.  Her powerful descriptions and imagery, and her portrayal of her narrator's musings, echoes these feelings and creates an inescapable air of sorrow, as if her life will never be what it could and should have been.  For these characters, America is not a land of opportunity but a refugee camp for displaced persons, a land that will forever be foreign for lives that will never feel fulfilled.  This is a harsh but exquisitely-written fictional treatment of the underside of immigration: America as impossibly strange and culturally closed to outsiders, American life as the breaker of immigrant families, not just America as the mythical \\"Gold Mountain\\" or as the healer of lost souls.  A wonderful exploration of the immigrant experience, marvelously told through a child's eyes.	2004-05-14
US	37234590	R1IW67JEYB5P3R	0312421435	815137418	No Logo: No Space, No Choice, No Jobs	Books	4	8	11	N	Y	A book that should be more widely read	Despite having become modestly dated in its details (a updated edition or follow-up work would be welcomed), Naomi Klein's book No Logo remains an important work about the blurring boundaries between global business and global culture.  Since its publication, much of the globalization furor directed at Kathy Lee, McDonald's, Nike, Shell Oil, Pepsi, and others has died down or been redirected at health, local impact (e.g., Wal-Mart stores) and other important but ancillary issues (take, for example, the movie Super Size Me).  The fact that the noise has subsided does not, however, mean that the problems Ms. Klein cites have disappeared.  More likely, the companies subjected to such scathing public rebuke have better learned how to play the game, managing their PR more effectively and hiding further and further behind layers of subsidiaries, contractors, sub-contractors, and locked factory gates.<br />No Logo is a significant work, deserving to be much better known than it is.  American consumers -- that is, all of us -- need to reach a much better understanding of how brand management has evolved into culture management, how Starbucks and Nike and Gap and The Body Shop and so many other companies are infiltrating our subconscious and controlling our cultural dialogues.  No Logo still serves as an eye-opener for those who have been spending so much time at the mall that they have not yet seen what is going on around them.<br />Sadly, No Logo is not the most approachable of books for the general populace.  It is over-long and over-detailed, bogging down in topics that are probably exciting to radical activists (like billboard jamming) but are sleep-inducing to most readers.  Like many people who are involved in activism, Klein sometimes loses the forest for the trees, giving us so much insider detail about causes and people we don't know that we lose interest in, and attention to, her real message.  My rating of only four stars, while certainly positive, derives from Klein's tendency to preach too much to the converted and spend too little time educating the as-yet unconverted.<br />The book is divided into four sections:  No Space, No Choice, No Jobs, and No Logo.  The first two sections, encompassing the first eight chapters, are well worth the price of the book by themselves.  Readers will come to a new understanding of how the public spaces around them are being manipulated by mega-corporate messaging, how those corporations hide behind a public face of social consciousness, and how violently they respond when anyone seeks to question their self-proclaimed high moral ground.  I would recommend these eight chapters as required reading for every third- or fourth-year high school student in America.  Chapter 16, &quot;A Tale of Three Logos,&quot; is also a fascinating account of less than admirable behavior on the parts of Nike, Shell, and McDonald's, definitely worth reading.<br />I can only hope that Ms. Klein will someday revisit her subject matter again, perhaps to publish a more streamlined and updated version that will reach a wider audience.  She deserves the audience, and the American public needs to hear her voice.  Despite her understandable tendency toward one-sidedness (perhaps necessary in this case to avoid being drowned out by Nike and McDonald's commercials and Starbucks ads), Naomi Klein's No Logo is an important book that all consuming Americans should read.m Klein's tendency to preach too much to the converted and spend too little time educating the as-yet unconverted. <br />The book is divided into four sections:  No Space, No Choice, No Jobs, and No Logo.  The first two sections, encompassing the first eight chapters, are well worth the price of the book by themselves.  Readers will come to a new understanding of how the public spaces around them are being manipulated by mega-corporate messaging, how those corporations hide behind a public face of social consciousness, and how violently they respond when anyone seeks to question their self-proclaimed high moral ground.  I would recommend these eight chapters as required reading for every third- or fourth-year high school student in America.  Chapter 16, &quot;A Tale of Three Logos,&quot; is also a fascinating account of less than admirable behavior on the parts of Nike, Shell, and McDonald's, definitely worth reading.<br />I can only hope that Ms. Klein will someday revisit her subject matter again, perhaps to publish a more streamlined and updated version that will reach a wider audience.  She deserves the audience, and the American public needs to hear her voice.  Despite her understandable tendency toward one-sidedness (perhaps necessary in this case to avoid being drowned out by Nike and McDonald's commercials and Starbucks ads), Naomi Klein's No Logo is an important book that all consuming Americans should read.	2004-05-14
US	37234590	R38G17HRASHWKK	0618251413	665949938	Count Down: Six Kids Vie for Glory at the World's Toughest Math Competition	Books	1	37	44	N	N	This Isn't SPELLBOUND	Having loved SPELLBOUND, and being both a mathematics major in college and a high school math teacher, I opened this book with great anticipation.  Unfortunately, I closed it in utter disappointment a week later after forcing myself to finish it.  From its name (an absurd attempt to create a sense of excitement which the author completely fails to deliver) to its cover subtitle to its book jacket text, this book promises to introduce us to &quot;the kids,&quot; the brilliant young people who pursue mathematics out of talent, but also out of love for its artistry and unparalleled aesthetics.  Instead, the author gives us rehash after rehash of &quot;expert&quot; opinion about genius, creativity, talent, problem-solving, and the like.  Not one new or original idea, just repetition of material that's better read in its originals (e.g., Martin Gardner, or &quot;Einstein and Picasso&quot;).  The one area that could have been truly original was to introduce the reader to the young mathematicians themselves.  To prospective readers:  if you read the generic, one-paragraph description of the six contestants from the book jacket, you'll know almost as much about these youngsters as if you had read the whole book. <br />Count Down is a missed opportunity, and unfortunately, its publication probably prohibits anyone else from writing the book that should have been written.  Who are these six young people?  Who are their families and teachers?  How do they interact with the world, and how does the world interact with them?  What are the dynamics among the six young people who make the team?  What are they thinking as they try to solve the problems from the Olympiad?  Steve Olson leaves these six very human youngsters as stick figures, wooden, nearly devoid of personality.  He offers us no significant insight into their characters, their lives, or their families.  As I read this book, I kept thinking how far short it falls from the richness of SPELLBOUND, both as a sociologicalstatement about family, discipline, and goal-setting, as well as an exploration of directed intelligence and its effects on the young participants.  <br />As one example, Chapter 8 is supposed to introduce us to a young man named Oaz Nir.  After learning far more about his private school than we need (its motto, its wooded location helped with an unnecessarily pretentious quote from Faulkner, and knowing that the Mississippi Symphony played a concert there), we are treated to the following insights from his teachers:  <BR>&quot;He was a good writer, interested in history.&quot; <br />&quot;He was a good citizen at this school.&quot;<BR>&quot;We had to think of things to keep him busy.&quot;<BR>&quot;He taught me as much as I taught him.&quot;<br />It's a miracle he learned anything from teachers with this much depth and insight, and it's a waste of the reader's time to read such drivel.  When Oaz learns that he has been invited to a summer math training camp, his response (according to the author) is:  &quot;I was very excited about going.&quot;  A page later, the author apparently needs to cite  David Brooks from the Atlantic Monthly to tell us that high schools have cliques, that &quot;that's just the way life is.&quot;  <br />Count Down is a huge disappointment, filled with banalities, wandering among topics like Good Will Hunting and a far-too-lengthy discussion of Andrew Wiles' experiences with Fermat's Last Theorem, and seemingly doing everything possible to avoid actually talking about the kids.  What could have been a fascinating human study turns out to be a rehash of old math stories and quotations and debates about nature vs. nurture, genius, talent, creativity, and the like.  The book lacks focus and utterly fails to introduce us to six fascinating young people.  Even the attempts to make the Olympiad outcome exciting are feeble, including a misleading chapter title of &quot;Triumph&quot; and a bizarre build-up about the team coach and one player's scorethat inexplicably falls flat by ending with the coach saying &quot;Five's fine,&quot; as though it never happened.  <br />The ending includes a reference to a famous formula, e to the (i x pi) power = -1.  The author mentions the amazing interconnectedness of different fields of math study displayed by this formula which only mathematicians will really appreciate.  At the same time, he fails to note that another representation, e to the (i x pi) power + 1 = 0, which is far easier for the average reader to see the beauty of, since e, i, pi, 1, and 0, the five most significant values in mathematics, are related in a single equation.  <br />All in all, a huge disappointment.  The one star is for trying, and for at least writing a general interest book about math.  But if you're looking for a math equivalent to SPELLBOUND, you'll have to look elsewhere.	2004-05-13
US	37234590	R1YWGMNL4E3OKE	0618068872	719178727	Empress Orchid: A Novel	Books	4	85	87	N	N	Life in the Forbidden City	Anchee Min's latest book demonstrates once again her comfort level with historical novels and shows, as well, her increasing command of English as an acquired language.  Ms. Min's writing shows more complexity in her sentence structures, more subtlety in her imagery, richer characterization, and more power of expression than her previous novel, Wild Ginger.  As a result, Empress Orchid is a highly engaging and satisfying read, rich in plot and characterization.  Her novelization of the Dowager Empress Tzu Hsi may or may not be historically accurate, but I personally do not think precision is required here.   The subject matter gives the author a wide field in which to display her story-telling skills while weaving in fascinating elements of Chinese history and culture.  Having visited the Forbidden City and the Summer Palace three times myself, and the Summer Resort in Chengde once, I felt that Ms. Min captured their essence perfectly.  As I read her descriptions, I felt transported back to those places as I had seen them, but 100 years ealier.  Read this book for its atmosphere, its depiction of life in Imperial China, and its fascinating &quot;insider&quot; snippets of Chinese culture.  If I had one criticism to offer, it is that I wish more of the &quot;secondary&quot; characters were more fully and thoroughly drawn and more of their interior thoughts, motivations, and reactions were revealed.  The author creates fascinating characters in the eunuch An-te-hai, Prince Kung, and Yung Lu -- I would love to know more about them.  That said, I will wait anxiously for the next installment in Anchee Min's story of Tzu Hsi.  I firmly believe Ms. Min will replace Pearl Buck (and everyone else) as THE English language novelist of Chinese history.  I recommend this book highly to anyone who wants to learn more about Chinese history and culture and life as it must have been lived in the Forbidden City in the late 19th Century.	2004-01-30
US	37234590	R33UCEXQFWR387	1400047714	723303930	Pigs at the Trough	Books	1	24	54	N	N	An empty populist polemic	Arianna Huffington proves in this book that anyone can write a book today if they are outrageous enough in their attack, regardless whether they have anything new to say.  Her book is a compendium of facts and figures well-known to anyone who regularly reads Business Week, Fortune, and other business press --- sadly, her work lacks even one original piece of research or one new fact that she herself dug up.  This is clearly a book written entirely from Lexis, Nexis, and Google searches.  <br />Aside from the lack of original research, Ms. Huffington's style grates on one's nerves.  Her writing attempts to be overly cute, but comes across with all the clever cynicism of a high school sophomore.  She excells at moronic, cliched name-calling (beginning with the title itself), as if her sticks and stones will somehow solve the much deeper problems in corporate governance and auditing about which she clearly knows little except the most superficial of information.  Her so-called quizzes embedded throughout the book were equally immature.  Far better that she should leave her pitiful attempts at humor of that sort to people like Al Franken, Molly Ivins, Dennis Miller, or Michael Moore who actually are funny and have the intellectual breadth and cultural repertoire to actually pull off real satire.<br />I suffered my way through the entire book mostly out of disbelief that a woman whom the press consistently dubs as intelligent could write such a shallow, childish, ineffectual work about a truly serious set of problems in our modern capitalist system.  Having read this book, I see that her depth of knowledge and her persistent literary grandstanding through empty name-calling made her at least as good a candidate for governor in California as Arnold.  They make the perfect pair for a state in which shallow superficiality reigns supreme.  <br />This book is the perfect purchase for readers with high school educations who have never seen a copy of Business Week or read the business section of the New York Times.  For everyone else, I suggest you spend your money elsewhere (spend it on a serious book like The Best Democracy Money Can Buy, or Paul Krugman'sThe Great Unraveling).	2003-10-19
