US	37233945	R1GV6B4OZWIWM6	0316511579	722335551	The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium, An Englishman's World	Books	5	4	9	N	N	The Ultimate Down East	Did you ever notice how country music takes us back to another time and place we reverently call \\"home\\", which had its own dialect, its own ways, and was inevitably rural? You can almost smell the mown hay and hear the cattle lowing. We long for our lost relatives who lived there. A thousand stories tell us of the heroic deeds of animals and country people.<br /><br />And yet those same ancestors descended from another home for which they yearned, and the inhabitants of that wonderful place remembered yet another one, etc. Where was the original home? This book makes a good case that you might find it in England in the year 1000 AD. The people were the Saxons (amalgamated with the Danes, the Scots, the Picts and the Welsh) and their language was the good old country English, which we now call Old English. The Normans had not yet arrived to Frenchify the place.<br /><br />These English were mainly a country folk. They hated cities, but the earlier Saxon invaders had been forced to occupy some centers, such as London. Tacitus had described the earlier Germanics as hating cities. We know the English always valued  family solidarity. Such luminaries as George Washington originally wanted nothing more than to be a British country gentleman. Sure enough, in the year 1000 we find a social structure based on kinship. It was, moreover, not a modern one, nor was anything about the country modern. It was a continuous extension of antiquity, who knows how remote?<br /><br />The structure began with groups of 10 families pledged to take responsibility for each other. These were organized into \\"hundreds\\", a varying number of which was a \\"shire\\", with an officer called a \\"shire reeve\\" (sheriff). The king, or \\"chief kinsman\\", ruled over shires.<br /><br />Had the authors researched further, they would have discovered that the Saxons, like many tribes of North Germany, had once worked for the Roman army, which was divided into legions, centuries of 100 men, and maniples of 10 men. The saxons took their name in fact from the short swords worn by their officers.<br /><br />In the year 1000 we are looking at antiquity. Medicine was mainly ancient Greek with an overlay of a thousand ineffective and dangerous home remedies. The people were unable to defend themselves against parasites, such a fleas and worms. They washed only every few weeks. The farmyard was the repository of many kinds of dung, including human. Not many lived beyond 40.<br /><br />This book makes a mockery of mediaeval romance and saga. People did not live romantically, but we want romance, and so we have created it in song and story. Those who question the notion of progress, or deny that progress has any realty, should read this book.t from the short swords worn by their officers.    In the year 1000 we are looking at antiquity. Medicine was mainly ancient Greek with an overlay of a thousand ineffective and dangerous home remedies. The people were unable to defend themselves against parasites, such a fleas and worms. They washed only every few weeks. The farmyard was the repository of many kinds of dung, including human. Not many lived beyond 40.    This book makes a mockery of mediaeval romance and saga. People did not live romantically, but we want romance, and so we have created it in song and story. Those who question the notion of progress, or deny that progress has any realty, should read this book.	2005-06-01
US	37233945	R27E91J80DG1WF	0440569605	546741148	Royal Charles: Charles II and the Restoration	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Non-royal Charles, the People's King	In this wonderful book, Antonia chronicles the doings of the 17th-century royal Stuart family in such detail that I for one feel as though I lived among them. At this locus in space-time we probably know more about Charles II than did his own family. We know, for example, that he was a paid French agent for most of his reign.<br /><br />That Charles II was the man for the job and the times and may have been Britain's best king is hard to dispute. He was certainly the first people's king. His handling of government foreshadowed the checks and balances developed more formally in the next century, but he did not formulate it into a doctrine. That is simply the way it happened.<br /><br />The Stuarts acquired the throne of Britain through Mary, Queen of Scots, who descended from a Tudor. Elizabeth Tudor had her executed, but not before she married had a son with the unfortunate alcoholic, Darnley. The boy was taken from his mother to be raised a Protestant and became James I on the death of Elizabeth, who died without heir.<br /><br />The reign of James I (of King James Bible fame) was happy and prosperous and his son, Charles I, was looking forward to the same. History did not smile on this upright but unlucky king. Society bolted under him, so to speak, and threw him from his horse. The Swiss reform crept down the Rhine and across the channel and lodged in Britain as numerous sects of Puritanism. Meanwhile, the creeping disease of enclosure, the seizure of formerly public lands by private individuals interested in raising sheep and selling wool, and the subsequent forced evacuation of those lands, was slowly but surely building a fury in the common man. Charles I found that he could not govern.<br /><br />Successive parliaments called in the hope of financial relief became ever more unruly until at last they refused to be dismissed! Not the brightest man, though a decent one, Charles I failed to see the impending end of absolute monarchy. He made a fatal mistake, sending soldiers into parliament to arrest 5 MPs, who evaded him anyway. The English Civil War was on. The king ultimately surrendered to parliamentary forces. He might have been spared, but he refused to cooperate in any way with the diminution of the divine right of kings. The parliamentarians played their trump card of executing the king (1649), a blunder on their part. His death aroused mainly grief and horror.<br /><br />Faced with overwhelming adversity, Charles II was not overwhelmed. He shone like the star he was. There are few other teen-age generals in history, but that is what he became fighting for his father, and alone after 1649. Often seen in the front line leading the charge, he was born under a lucky star, surviving somehow. Even Cromwell admitted that his last battle, the Battle of Worcester, was the hardest fought of the war. The king went dodging through the countryside, hiding out in a huge oak while the soldiers beat the bushes for him. He escaped to France and then other points, with the help mainly of ordinary people.<br /><br />Charles' exile whetted his talents and forged his future. He and ragamuffin court were often without knowledge of the source of their next meal. He kept on wheeling and dealing, unsuccessfully. He lifted their spirits by creating a sort of ongoing pool party, which moved from country to country and estate to estate. They derived their emotional support from this circle of intimacy, which went on after the king was restored.<br /><br />And he was restored. Cromwell died. His son, \\"Tumbledown Dick\\", was not up to the job of being the lord high protector of the Commonwealth. The army had kept Charles under constant surveillance wherever he went. They knew that he was an extraordinarily talented man. To avoid disintegration of the government and renewed conflict between factions, General Monck convinced parliament to restore Charles, rather suddenly, with but short notice, in 1660.<br /><br />And what a resoration it was! A fleet of refurbished ships sailed from Holland and a small army of royalists dressed in the very finest uniforms money could buy paraded through the streets of London with the king flanked by his brothers, all at the center of a roaring crowd. The king knew exactly what they wanted and he spared no expense to give it to them. He had thoroughly learned that God may give kings a divine right to rule, but only through the medium of the people.<br /><br />The party went on. Charles and his wife and mistresses and a total of 12 illegitimate children lived happily together in Whitehall Palace. The queen, a Portuguese princess, was unfortunately barren, but the king did not desert her on that account. He was content to pass on the succession to his brother, James II. The author compares this arrangement to that of the cruel Henry the 8th, who executed his successive wives so that he could get on to the next one. The king owned horses, dogs and yachts. Sometimes he raced his own horses. He associated freely with all walks of life. He despised to put on royal airs.<br /><br />Meanwhile a steady stream of sparks flew from the flint of his creative genius. He forgave his enemies (except the regicides). He was as often in parliament as the MPs themselves, arguing his point of view himself. He created the first standing army in Britain, using its offices as a means to reward friends and placate enemies. He founded the Royal Society, built the observatory at Greenwich, built a hospital, personally assisted in fighting the great fire of London, and hired Christopher Wren to rebuild the burned area.<br /><br />In politics the king and parliament often disagreed. He called them when he needed money. They passed laws and granted or refused the money. All the same old issues still existed, but now neither side was willing to start a civil war over them. King and parliament in fact checked and balanced each other, even though no constitution defined them. Seeking to be less dependent on parliament, the king made a secret treaty with Louis the 14th, by which he would become a pro-French advocate in exchange for a large annuity. It wasn't as bad as it seems. The king's mother was French. Family connections were already in place. The king had to agree to become Catholic, which he only dared to do on his deathbed, after apologizing for taking so long to die.<br /><br />This work by Fraser might as well have been an epic poem, lacking only the versification. We laugh or weep as it soars into sublimity or pathos and we yawn at the tedious details of the king's devious machinations. A word of warning. The author takes a totally royalist view. She has no space or inclination to present the details of the rebel cause. Reading this book, we wonder why those stubborn parliamentary fools held out against such a jolly good fellow as the king. Perhaps the lives of the Stuarts were so interesting and momentous as to compel their biographers to loyalty.tion it was! A fleet of refurbished ships sailed from Holland and a small army of royalists dressed in the very finest uniforms money could buy paraded through the streets of London with the king flanked by his brothers, all at the center of a roaring crowd. The king knew exactly what they wanted and he spared no expense to give it to them. He had thoroughly learned that God may give kings a divine right to rule, but only through the medium of the people. <br /> <br />The party went on. Charles and his wife and mistresses and a total of 12 illegitimate children lived happily together in Whitehall Palace. The queen, a Portuguese princess, was unfortunately barren, but the king did not desert her on that account. He was content to pass on the succession to his brother, James II. The author compares this arrangement to that of the cruel Henry the 8th, who executed his successive wives so that he could get on to the next one. The king owned horses, dogs and yachts. Sometimes he raced his own horses. He associated freely with all walks of life. He despised to put on royal airs. <br /> <br />Meanwhile a steady stream of sparks flew from the flint of his creative genius. He forgave his enemies (except the regicides). He was as often in parliament as the MPs themselves, arguing his point of view himself. He created the first standing army in Britain, using its offices as a means to reward friends and placate enemies. He founded the Royal Society, built the observatory at Greenwich, built a hospital, personally assisted in fighting the great fire of London, and hired Christopher Wren to rebuild the burned area. <br /> <br />In politics the king and parliament often disagreed. He called them when he needed money. They passed laws and granted or refused the money. All the same old issues still existed, but now neither side was willing to start a civil war over them. King and parliament in fact checked and balanced each other, even though no constitution defined them. Seeking to be less dependent on parliament, the king made a secret treaty with Louis the 14th, by which he would become a pro-French advocate in exchange for a large annuity. It wasn't as bad as it seems. The king's mother was French. Family connections were already in place. The king had to agree to become Catholic, which he only dared to do on his deathbed, after apologizing for taking so long to die. <br /> <br />This work by Fraser might as well have been an epic poem, lacking only the versification. We laugh or weep as it soars into sublimity or pathos and we yawn at the tedious details of the king's devious machinations. A word of warning. The author takes a totally royalist view. She has no space or inclination to present the details of the rebel cause. Reading this book, we wonder why those stubborn parliamentary fools held out against such a jolly good fellow as the king. Perhaps the lives of the Stuarts were so interesting and momentous as to compel their biographers to loyalty.	2005-05-14
US	37233945	R3AZVEEWR0F8U	0679724753	877262582	Out of Africa: and Shadows on the Grass	Books	3	8	38	N	N	There Is No Africa	Underlying Blixen's tale of early 20th century Africa is the presumption that there was such a place; that is, a people or nation of peoples existed to which she went and from which she was forced to depart by economic circumstances. This presumption a priori allows her to reminisce about Africa the way it was or was supposed by her to have been.<br /><br />As she observed, Africa was, in a sense, leaving her. Peoples were being  moved around, new laws restricting tribal behavior were being passed, and the Ngong Hills were being laid out as a suburb of Nairobi. She was there, she professed, before all these changes began.<br /><br />But was she? Was there a time and place, \\"Africa\\", or is this concept mainly her and the European view of the times? Blixen's Africa in fact was not any sort of original. Europeans had already produced vast changes: the tribes were by then being herded into reservations and European ways and goods prevailed. European reporters never reported Africa the way it was or had been. That information remained \\"dark.\\"<br /><br />The informational darkness is not entirely their fault. An observer always alters that which he sets out to observe. It is only a presumption that his observations are an approximation of the reality the way it would be without him observing it. That presumption is least justifiable in human affairs. We will never know what the original Masai or Kikuyu were like, or the exact configuration of flora and fauna among which they dwelled, or how they reacted to their environments or each other.<br /><br />Similarly Blixen's little white light doesn't shine very far. We get some ethnic generalities as the vehicle of which she devises some stock identities, \\"the Kikuyu\\", \\"the Masai\\" and the like, which, on closer examination, turn out to be of European origin. Blixen manufactures masks and tries to get the Africans to wear them. Sociological and anthropological data are nearly entirely in deficit from these supposed traits. She probably is not alone in this process of inventing peoples. It accounts, perhaps, for why the Mau-mau insurrection caught the Europeans totally by surprise, as though you were to paint doodles on a sleeping man's body and he were to awake suddenly and demand angrily to know what you were doing.ts. She probably is not alone in this process of inventing peoples. It accounts, perhaps, for why the Mau-mau insurrection caught the Europeans totally by surprise, as though you were to paint doodles on a sleeping man's body and he were to awake suddenly and demand angrily to know what you were doing.	2004-11-28
US	37233945	R1RCUOKCXVYBFM	1577660587	746642866	Manny: A Criminal-Addict's Story	Books	5	1	2	N	N	What's it all about, Manny?	&quot;Manny&quot; is a remarkable story, all the more so because the narrator lived to tell the tale. He survived being tossed over a balcony, stabbed with an icepick, starved, frozen and put in danger of being shot during armed robbery countless times. Manny tells us he was a tough man.<br />The second most remarkable thing about the story is that year after year Manny never seems to question whether this is the best way of life and how one might arrive at a better. He does finally account for his tenacity by a few additional conjectures beyond audaciousness. He became enslaved to the white godess of death (an ancient demon). He was angry at the injustice in society. He found a life of danger thrilling.<br />An education in in sociology from prison improves Manny's vocabulary and analytical skills, and according to him, turns him around. But does it really? In the book, he takes only the revolutionary point of view, that all the evil in life comes  from the flaws in modern society, and that if only it did not create prisons and criminals, there wouldn't be any.<br />Manny never uses the word &quot;God&quot; as anything but a distant abstraction, and omits totally his standing with that supposed entity. The train of events to him is predetermined. He never considers saying &quot;no&quot; to evil as a personal option at all. Struggle and anger and dope are his favorite possessions. One wants to say to him, Manny, did anyone force you to stick the needle in your arm?	2004-03-17
US	37233945	R3MV8HM92ULYTC	0471189529	845089419	Only Yesterday: An Informal History of the 1920's	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Federal or Confederate?	The author details the ephemera of the roaring twenties and in doing so seems to capture the geist of the times. The country is already divided between the forces of \\"decency\\" and the predators, who, at the most articulate levels, profess \\"laissez faire capitalism.\\"<br />The object of this French term is the United States government. By 1918 it was a fast ship, roaring to the aid of the beleaguered peoples of Europe, tipping the balance in the \\"war to end wars\\" in favor of the right side. In this spirit also, prohibition was passed. The moment the war came to an end, the American people fled from the banners of decency just as fast as their legs could carry them. The government became a derelict hulk captained by token presidents.<br />Wilson drove himself to death trying in vain to bring about a \\"just and lasting peace.\\" Harding, the great American \\"good guy\\", enmeshed himself in the \\"Teapot Dome Scandals\\" perpetrated by his friends, the Texas oil millionaires. The author speculates that his rather unexpected death was a concealed suicide. The oil intended for U.S. naval reserves went elsewhere at a large profit, much to Japan.<br />The south rose again in the form of the resurrected Klu Klux Klan (the book does not mention its previous disbanding by the actual confederate veterans). They ruled at the state and local levels (hence \\"states rights\\"). Justice was an open joke, but who cared about it? The American people were busy pursuing a sexual revolution and illicit booze. The satirist, H. L. Mencken, had a field day. Al Capone ruled Chicago. Hundreds of rackets sprang up everywhere and small businessmen paid taxes to the mob.<br />Why did the government not act? Mammon was God and was being preached not only by the clergy from the pulpit but by its new apostles, the salesmen. \\"Hands off\\", they said, and that will be the best. The little people attempted to defend themselves and their jobs through unions and were assaulted by reactionary forces acting at state and local levels. Anarchy and disorder were on the increase. The IWW reached maximum extent, especially in the west. Reactionaries countered with \\"the red scare.\\" Sacco and Vanzetti were executed for a crime the judge and prosecutor knew they did not commit, because they were \\"anarchists\\" (they were not).<br />Reaching the end of the decade, the author gives us the handwriting on the wall: the crash of late 1929. Laissez faire, he hints, was not going to work in the 20th century. He could not then know of the rise of FDR, the suppression of the Klan, the legalization of unions, and the strengthening of the government into a social regulatory force and quasi-empire. Nor could he know that the divisiveness would continue, and the protagonists would be roughly the same. What a pity.d local levels. Anarchy and disorder were on the increase. The IWW reached maximum extent, especially in the west. Reactionaries countered with \\"the red scare.\\" Sacco and Vanzetti were executed for a crime the judge and prosecutor knew they did not commit, because they were \\"anarchists\\" (they were not).<br />Reaching the end of the decade, the author gives us the handwriting on the wall: the crash of late 1929. Laissez faire, he hints, was not going to work in the 20th century. He could not then know of the rise of FDR, the suppression of the Klan, the legalization of unions, and the strengthening of the government into a social regulatory force and quasi-empire. Nor could he know that the divisiveness would continue, and the protagonists would be roughly the same. What a pity.	2004-02-10
US	37233945	R3E0QXPM6DKZ1T	0844607029	510370438	The Strange Story of the Quantum: An Account for the General Reader of the Growth of the Ideas Underlying Our Present Atomic Knowledge	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Hoffmann Loses and Finds Form	In Hoffmann's metaphorical language, exploration of the microcosm is like approximating a circle by means of polygons of greater and greater numbers of sides. You can't go on ad infinitum. The quantum is a minimum discernable action (energy acting over time) placing a limit on precision. You can never get as precise as the circle and therefore it disappears from reality. There are only polygons. But if there are no circles, why does the universe bother to approximate them?<br />Hoffmann does not ask or answer that last question, but he discovers form in another way. A supposed particulate object can possess a quantum without any formal precision; that is, you can't know its position or momentum exactly. Particles disappear into a smear and without them so do atoms (and molecules, etc.). In Hoffmann's analogy, you can see flowing water or water molecules, but you can't see both. The flow disappears when you try to discover of what it consists (where does the fire go when it goes out?). Similarly spacetime disappears among the indeterminate particles. This supposed event causes Hoffmann some regret, but why should it? He believes, it seems, in the perceived forms and cannot give them up for any indiscernable smears of action. We don't get any such affirmation, however. He obeys the unspoken protocol never to mix physics and metaphysics.	2003-12-01
US	37233945	R1X61U3SN3ZQL2	0020199600	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	0	2	N	N	The Great Satire	James Gatz tried, like Franklin, to improve himself, and succeeded, but he was not required to build America. Instead, he became the Great Gatsby, moving like a Homeric Gyad among the party-goers of East and West Egg. His money came from a dubious &quot;gonnegtion&quot; with the wolf (Meyer Wolfsheim, rather than Lanski), to whom he had presented himself in his uniform, covered with medals, because he lacked the cash to buy clothes.<br />Like many an able lad of plain background (North Dakota) Jay encounters the leisured class, particularly the beautiful and popular Daisy (she loves me, she loves me not). Supposed to wait while he went to war (that one again), she marries into Buchanan money and has a daughter. Jay comes back to hover around the green light at the end of her dock and build a life &quot;founded securely on a fairy's wing.&quot;<br />We are treated to a catalog of party-goers parallel to the catalog of ships in the Iliad. The denizens of the two Eggs are more fragile than heroic. Jay makes his move for Daisy, who nods back and forth between him and her husband, Tom. The significance of the daughter seems to escape Jay totally (what's it all about, Jay?).<br />Finally, one horribly hot evening, Daisy, driving Jay's car beside Jay, runs down and kills her rival for Tom's affections, Myrtle Wilson. Tom, driving in a subsequent car, tells Wilson, Myrtle's husband, whose car it was. Wilson shoots Jay. Tom never finds out the truth, and Nick Carraway, the narrator of the story, walks away from the entire irresponsible crowd.<br />This writing is a fictional story from the mind of the great F. Scott Fitzgerald and is not a document of American society. Perhaps people like his characters have existed, but America is bigger than he. If the shoe doosn't fit, don't wear it!	2003-11-01
US	37233945	R2YRDNXZND99T7	0316352888	584603648	Pentimento (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	1	8	N	N	Unrepentant pentiment	It is morning. The turtle Lilly and Dash have been preparing for dinner has vanished from the kitchen stool. After some brilliant detective work, Dash (father of private eye stories) discovers the turtle in the garden, where it has crawled sans functional head. &quot;Is it alive?&quot; says Lilly. &quot;Lilly, I'm too old for that stuff&quot; says Dash. They argue about the age difference and whether or not Dash should answer. Turtles are for eating, Dash affirms. Unrepentant, Lilly refuses to eat the turtle. They  bury it. It has earned its life, asserts Lilly.	2003-10-15
US	37233945	R37EUTJNM8MOY5	014036966X	408236261	Upon the Head of the Goat: A Childhood in Hungary 1939-1944	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Wrong Goat	In this narrative we see through childish eyes an ordinary family trying to hold on to decency and the dignity of the individual while their country (Hungary) falls into ruin under the jackboot of tyranny. We come to understand the worth of the family and the wrongness of the conquerors that are trying to turn them into \\"Schwein.\\" Though they have separated innocent people out and have attempted to fasten all the ills of society upon them, they themselves are most in need of the Biblical goat to carry away their sins upon its head, and cannot find one.	2003-10-15
US	37233945	RB3HR322NEI16	0151620865	319576789	Monkey on a Stick: Murder, Madness, and the Hare Krishnas	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Stayin' Alive, Stayin' Alive	This book is an excellent chronicle of a problem that has plagued every ideology, including religion, since time began. Man has an innate desire to be better and to seek the better, based on an inborn knowledge of good and evil. As soon as he tries to implement this desire in social action, somehow the usual instincts and desires gradually subvert supposedly idealistic activities and organizations until they end by being just like any other: concerned with amassing wealth, defending the ideologic state, collecting a harem, venting personal spite, attacking contenders to dominance, establishing territory, and so on. True, man has a spiritual side. But, you can't on that account take the animal out of him either, not in this lifetime. Why pick on ISCON? If you want real chillers, real horror stories, if you really want to be shocked, start reading the social history of all the major religions. Hmmm, I  wonder if those heads are still affixed to London Bridge. Do you think amputated limbs, ears and noses are hereditary? What is it like to be burned at the stake? Broken on the rack? Maybe I should think twice before disagreeing with that bishop or imam or cutting in on his territory. What would that country be like if someone had not removed 30 percent of its population?	2003-09-09
US	37233945	RI11LL17M4WGF	0451516257	119696620	The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Combatting the Seven Deadly Sins	On a personal level, most men are concerned with how they shall seem to society and judge that, if they seem well, they are well. Franklin's chief private preoccupation, as revealed by his letters, was to be well himself first. To that end as a young man he devised a chart on which he could record how often he committed each sin each day. Much to his surprise, he found that he was a sinner. In devising methods to overcome what he considered to be his worst faults, he became inspired with the judgement and skills that led him to know almost instinctively what the future nation would need and to follow through on it. We read of him founding the first libraries, the first fire companies, and the first American Philosophical Society, which originally was a discussion group to which members, who were the public at large, were invited to make presentations on some project. To see the slow and often painful growth of a population of small towns and villages into what would become a mighty nation, through Franklin's eyes, is to understand much better the formation of an American identity, the core of which is with us today.	2003-09-07
US	37233945	R3URZJIE9JE8GM	B00005WWPI	286025318	Sorrow built a bridge; a daughter of Hawthorne	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Affirmation of Life	In the middle of the suffering and death in which we find ourselves, we can only live sanely by making to some degree and usually with no small effort the affirmation that life is meaningful after all, despite appearances. In the prime of life, Rose Hawthorne Lathrop, a lovely, red-haired, affable woman, possessed of all the literary gifts of the Hawthornes, and the means to become rich and famous, put that all aside to don severe garb, assume the unappealing title of Mother Alphonse, and spend the rest of her life ministering to the cancerous and doomed poor. We all are doomed, but her affirmation was that even those written off as not worthy of further attention by the medical arts are equally as deserving of love and attention as the most prosperous and secure in the land. The book tries to capture her thought through her bringing up, the death of her father and sister, her marriage, the death of her son, the decline of her husband into alcoholism, their conversion to Catholicism, and the bright moment of her final decision to become Mother Alphonse. You will not come away from this book without altered thought. Somehow, the question of which religion she was doesn't seem to matter.	2003-09-04
US	37233945	R2E50Q87SJWXTW	0671229826	445216451	Mysteries of the Past	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Different Publisher	The book that goes with this ISBN was actually published by the American Heritage Publishing Co. of New York and is labeled Book Trade Distribution by Simon and Schuster. It is the regular, not the deluxe edition. The authors are Casson, Claiborne, Fagan and Karp. The editor is Thorndike. It is possible that another edition also was given this ISBN. Sometimes the ISBN's aren't very distinctive.	2003-03-02
US	37233945	R5OWXGXJ9F4JE	0226853535	157651283	Greece in the Bronze Age	Books	5	22	24	N	N	In memoriam - Let us offer at least one short rave	This book should have at least one review, don't you think? I was a student of hers when she was writing it. It was the first of her children (she had two more) and she labored over it for more than a year in very trying circumstances. The problem was, she was trying to teach the Bronze Age and there were no syntheses in a field in which, unless you had the right connections, everything you did or said was wrong. She persisted. There are still no good rivals of this book, and the book is still an excellent overview. It contains no brilliant theses. There is much good realism. If you read between the lines, she foreshadows the later debunking of Schliemann, who planted artifacts in the shaft graves. She well knew that, if you contradicted the wrong people, you would, like Evans' master of archaeology, never work in the field again. But, she put excellence first and came up with an excellent book. The author passed on in February of 2001. I think we were all lucky to have had her for so long. She too is a classic now.  One can only hope she knows answer to the mysteries she studied for so long.	2002-12-23
US	37233945	RP22SL4F8I41T	0385159447	449092819	We Hardly See Each Other Any More	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A candid soul is a beautiful one	Many poets, perhaps most, craft poetry as you decorate a vase. Merrit uses poetry primarily for self expression, but she has an approach that is somewhat rare in a woman: total candor about her emotions. Maybe such candor is Bostonian and Irish. We do a lot of yelling here. It is freedom in any case. Women aren't generally so honest, especially where men are concerned. As a result of this liberty, however arrived at, Merrit starts with herself and ends by revealing what might be termed the female soul. The characteristics are predictable with regard to reproduction and society. One just didn't expect it to be so rare and sensitive; indeed, one is startled by its beauty.	2002-11-05
US	37233945	R1KD9MPJUK4OE0	0760707243	136959184	Clifford's Days	Books	5	1	1	N	N	There is no Clifford's Days	This special Barnes and Noble edition, published by arrangement with Scholastic, is a compendium of 4 of the works of Norman Bridwell: Clifford Gets a Job, Clifford's Sports Day, Clifford the Firehouse Dog, and Clifford Takes a Trip. Nothing is omitted in text or illustration. The book is in full color. You Bridwell fans can provide your child with four Bridwell stories for the price of one! There is no Bridwell story, Clifford's Days.	2002-09-08
US	37233945	R21C2VRTIJANP6	0394416104	760991156	The Basic Works of Aristotle.	Books	5	15	27	N	N	The First Philosopher	Scarcely any writer in the social sciences and the liberal arts does not begin his exposition with a quote from Aristotle, and yet, it cannot be claimed for him that he started a religion. One reason perhaps is that he put first things first. He began logically with the study of everything; in fact, he is the earliest source of the founding principle of logic, that you cannot both assert and deny the same predicate of the same subject in the same way. His worldview is apt to be less known to today's atomists. It is, in fact, the theory of matter and form. You should not be put off by it, however. Get introduced today; if you have not done so, read some Aristotle now! Chances are, you'll still be reading it 20 years from now, but also, you'll be glad you began at the beginning, at whatever time you began to do so.	2002-08-22
US	37233945	R1GSEPF0TQ01WU	0517447347	8768464	Stories Of Romance: From The Age of Chivalry	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful book of stories from the past	These stories were taken from the poetic romances mainly of the 14th century, formally labelled &quot;the middle ages&quot;, though somewhat past that. The tales perhaps descend from much earlier. The prose is modern and simple. There are stories from William and the Werewolf, Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, King Horn, Guy of Warwick, and others, some 44 tales, collected into a wonderful book of short stories. The book is illustrated with 50 woodcuts. The cover and spine are gold embossed in the manner of mediaeval manuscript illumination, the most beautiful I've seen in an ordinary book of such wide distribution and low price. The paper is good quality. Read this book to escape and relax before going to bed.	2002-08-06
US	37233945	R2I8GIO1233CZ1	0140146628	153448963	In Flanders Fields (Penguin History)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Horror, the Horror	In these times of compassionate battlefield practices and high tech, the loss of several hundred men would be a great disaster and bring the general under closest scrutiny. It is hard for us to imagine a time when men lived in a sea of mud beneath fortified heights, drowned in shell holes, never saw a tank, and had negligible air support, while the enemy artillery turned over every square inch of ground. The loss of several hundred thousand in one battle was deemed tolerable and was to be encouraged if the general could gain several hundred yards of ground, nor was there any hope of it ever ending. If you read this book, you will understand the ideology, art and literature of the entire 20th century much better.	2002-08-04
US	37233945	R34EJSERKLJ4IO	0517317133	997851386	Origins	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Origins and non-Origins	For tracing the evolution of the species, man, down from remote antiquity, this book has few peers. Richard has a flair for synthesis and obtaining and presenting the big picture, no doubt about that. He and others can even point to skeletal evidence of the first speech. We lack, however, any indication of how the fine mind and sensitive soul of the individual, Richard Leakey, arose from the unconscious and obedient tissue in which it finds itself, or what explanation is to be found there of the appreciation of origins. The Greeks said, &quot;Know thyself&quot;, and Linnaeus took up the challenge by calling man sapiens, because he must be wise indeed who could know himself. The Leakeys inherited and espoused the challenge. More answers, Richard!	2002-08-03
US	37233945	R3EO4K2G3KL692	1581152035	679546231	The Shape of Ancient Thought: Comparative Studies in Greek and Indian Philosophies	Books	5	18	22	N	N	The Time for This Book Is Finally Front and Center	I used to know Tom in graduate school long ago, when he began this book (Hi, Tom). Having discovered through the graduate school of hard knocks that reality is not what we present it to be, Tom found himself involved in the philosophy of &quot;the happening.&quot; We usually prefix such discoveries with non-, such as the non-friend, non-justice, the non-state, etc. What actually happens may be quite different from what is thought or said to be happening, which is about half of what the Buddha was saying. When Tom began this book, his field was being described as the study of &quot;the influence of Buddhism on Greek philosophy&quot;. Following an independent course, Tom had something of a happening, but he lacked the power to bring it to our attention. Who were the first real Buddhists? I'm not going to spoil the story by trying to upstage Tom, but he brings every resource of a bright and independent mind and a career of classical scholarship to the answer. The editors are right, this book is destined to change the field, and perhaps that is why 30 years were required to do the job right.	2002-08-02
US	37233945	RTI9LTZ8TP5TW	0844647691	673916526	Account of the Manners and Customs of Modern Egypt	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Details of Rare Book	As far as content is concerned, this book is an invaluable primary historical source on the Egyptian people of the early 19th century. The brief Frenchification is over and Egypt is under the Ottomans, though quasi-autonomous. The British aren't there yet. Lane reports his first-hand observations. He has some interesting etymological speculations, such as the origin of the name Cairo. There is a chapter on the uncertain predicament of the Jews of Cairo, who were obviously still there then. Various editions have come out, some worth thousands of dollars. In general, the expensive editions are the third and before. Lane died in 1876. The fifth edition was done near 1871 from an earlier annotated copy of his. It was edited by his nephew, Edward Stanley Poole. In his lifetime, Lane was criticised strictly from a literary point of view. His observations, however, are very similar to those of Frazier on European customs. He was, in other words, a misunderstood budding anthropologist. In names and concepts he tries to see things from an Arabic point of view, rather than following the custom of Europeanization. I think we may appeciate Lane better and find him more valuable than his contemporaries did.	2002-07-25
US	37233945	R2AAPZT5MEYUCD	0525942270	256759310	Rediscovering American Values: The Foundations of our Freedom for the 21st Century	Books	1	3	20	N	N	A Company of Paradoxes	No one denies Dick DeVos is a great seller of soap or would question his right to do so. The book presents us with a paradox, however. Dick would have us believe Amway salesmen aren't like other salesmen: they don't bear false witness, they are consistent in word and deed, treat others according to the golden rule, are humble, courageous, disciplined, and stand for freedom. You have to decide if he is deceiving you or not. If he is, then Amway's approach is deceptive and sales practices based on this deceptive doctrine are deceptive. If he is not, then he is violating the constitutional rights of the sales force. They have the right of freedom of speech, an implied right of privacy, freedom of religion or lack of it; in short, the right to make their own choices about how to live and feel and think without Amway telling them how they better do it. Moreover, even in Dick's own religion, he is paradoxical. The path of spirituality has never been through riches.	2002-07-14
US	37233945	R1MPT7MCH7S72J	0914286005	236490425	A Piece of Tape: The Watergate Story -- Fact and Fiction	Books	5	6	15	N	N	Tricky Book	There are two issues of this book, both under the same ISBN: 0-914286-00-5. One is a paperback published by Washington Media Services. The other is a hardback published by McCord Publications. They are both first editions. The hardback is worth quite a bit more, though certainly not any more than a good college text.	2002-06-18
US	37233945	R2POI8KDBDFQH7	B00005X1VY	980680526	Understanding human behavior	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Encyclopedia of Human Behavior	This was intended as an encyclopedic series of hardcover books on human behavior, written and presented in a reader-friendly way, with lots of surrealistic illustrations, color and black-and-white. The organization is logical, not alphabetic. There are brief articles on such topics as sexuality and dreams. The seller needs to state which volume is being sold. The volumes are large: 12 x 9 inches, but thin. The two persons listed as authors are stated to be editors in the book. There is an editorial board of persons in the field who bear the title of Dr. The books are informative and make an effort to reflect scientific research.	2002-06-12
US	37233945	R2ETIAMKP3BKLW	039330700X	860991951	Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History	Books	5	1	1	N	N	In Memoriam - Wonderful Mind	Article in the Boston Globe, May 21, 2002: \\"Dr. Stephen Jay Gould, the Harvard paleontologist who bought the science of evolution to a broad new audience, died yesterday ....\\"<br />Who else out of the dry stones of the Burgess Shale could have extracted so well the issues and overall significance of the finds? Everything on which he focused his mind, which moved like a strange creature itself over the bottom of palaeontology, suddenly became illuminated in the sunshine of understanding. Not everything he wrote was great. He wasn't always right. Subsequent work on the Burgess Shale shows that Walcott was more nearly right than Gould guessed; those species are mainly of known phyla and subordinate taxa. But, Gould had a way of understanding just what species such as Pikaia gracilens mean to us ordinary men and the ability to say it in a lively and thought-provoking way. At best, his research machine was impressive and you could always count on getting from him something of the culture history and background of the concepts. He'll be missed greatly by his audience, I think.	2002-05-23
US	37233945	R2U4ZDS44GXL5G	B00005WTES	770380055	Sex without fear	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sex Education Book	This book is a scientific explanation of the male and female reproductive systems and their function for adolescents and young marrieds. It tells in simple and objective language what we do and what to expect. The graphics are high-caliber, and are what you might expect to see in a medical book. Nothing is omitted or hidden. Call-outs are extensive. There are no pictures of intercourse and nothing suggestive or seductive. The title suggests nothing. It means that, once the ordinary young person understands the process, he or she need not be afraid of it.	2002-05-22
US	37233945	R2IO963010NLOF	0679423001	951028418	Brideshead Revisited (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	4	28	N	N	Rare Book Warning	If you have a Little and Brown dated 1945 and it is the 1st American Edition, one of 600 predating the trade edition, that book in good condiion is worth several hundred or more. Even if yours states January 1946 and after the 600, it is still worth in the hundreds. If you see the words &quot;trial&quot; or &quot;examination&quot; then your book is in the hundreds category. Refer to Abebooks on this.	2002-05-16
US	37233945	R21T42LUJ8F630	B00005VH1I	391838813	Australia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	National Geographic Special on Australia	This book is one of a series of National Geographic specials on different countries. This is quite a wonderful book, as are all National Geographic specials. The boards are mottled pink with bright, incised gold lettering. The front end papers feature a multi-color relief map of Australia. The title page displays a truly beautiful multi-color reproduction of Australia's seal. Almost every page thereafter is stuffed with color photographs of Australia. This is a book about modern Australia, with some historical flashbacks. The text is conversational and descriptive. You'll want this book for your Geographic specials collection.	2002-04-20
US	37233945	R37ZNSWCXS3T8L	0380760762	934118020	Give Us This Day	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Finding the Triumph	Sidney was a soldier on Bataan who fought for months and was finally taken after the Japanese captured a key artillery position. The artillery had run out of shells. The men were ordered to fall back but were overrun by tanks. Stewart goes from death march to death camp and toward the end of the war is moved about by ship to prevent his liberation by Americans. During this entire time he struggles with the major questions of God and man, trying to reconcile his faith with what he sees around him. By accident the men, who are protestant, find themselves being ministered by a catholic priest, Father Cummings. For example, they are stuffed into a cargo hold and begin to kill each other over air, space and water when the Americans bomb the ship. The voice of Father Cummings is heard \\"Listen to me men ... then ... he began to pray...I felt that God cared....\\" Father Cummings was still praying at his own death later from dysentery. The title of the book relates his very last words. Later, emaciated by starvation and disease, Sidney is counted for dead. As he lies recovering the great answer is given to him: \\"Men I had never liked came to mind also... Creation's goodness burned in all men... most were eaten by selfishness...besieged by fears...yet the flame was there, like a pilot light waiting for the right touch...men would always respond like tuning forks... great indeed was the human dignity of God's image.\\"	2002-04-16
US	37233945	RXGZBQXA7W6EF	071390996X	826554739	The Hittites	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Earliest Known Indo-europeans	If you are not very familiar with ancient history, but want a good popular introduction to the Hittites, this is the book for you. Hittite is the oldest known Indo-european language, known mainly from thousands of tablets unearthed in central Turkey. The language is so archaic it is not classified with the others, but is considered derived from an earlier version. Hittite is the only language that preserves an explicit trace of the laryngeals, sounds that disappeared from all the other languages. The culture of central Turkey is identified with the Biblical Hittites. They just may have founded or helped to found Troy, and they may just be among the pre-Greek inhabitants of Greece. There are relatively few popular books on the Hittites, mainly because the field changes so fast. You scholars that are popular educators, get busy!	2002-04-14
US	37233945	R3B3L0G43EGZ2K	0375400613	507883304	The Histories (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Father of History	In case classical literature still lies in your future, you can look forward with delight to a wonderful story-teller of the 5th century BC, the first known of a genre. His tales are often mythical and require decipherment to get at their historical sources, if any. In addition, however, we get the first clear view of the Fars, long before they converted to Islam, a few centuries after they had arrived in Iran, and were still extended into a large part of southern Russia, where they contended with mounted shooters called the Skyths. The Fars today have long since been amalgamated into one people. Herodotus gives some detail of the people who were there before the Fars. He also details the assault of this new Persian Empire on the Greek world and its containment via the first enthralling battle stories ever: Marathon, Thermopylae, Salamis.	2002-04-14
US	37233945	RV9PNASSHAQHX	0393002500	49236055	The Greek State	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The Proto-Polity	The Greek word, polis, \\"city\\" has become an integral part of our culture and appears in words such as polity and political. Scholars never tire of tracing the development of the first polities among the Greeks. From there one usually goes on to talk about the ideal, heavenly, or imaginary state. Ehrenberg's work, however, is another masterpiece of scholarship, detailing exactly how the individual states arose, began to confederate and then to unite, and what, because of it, our cultural expectations came to be regarding some such institution called \\"a polity.\\" It would be helpful in reading this book if you knew the Greek alphabet.	2002-04-14
US	37233945	R2XQ0FN4PBT6CM	0395127262	115486733	In the Shadow of Man	Books	5	6	6	N	N	20th Century Field Scientist	Jane Goodall is one of three women field observers hand-picked by Louis Leakey to observe great apes in the wild before they disappear, in the tradition of Linnaeus. Dian Fossey found herself embroiled in the fight to save the mountain gorillas, while Birute Galdikas was put off by the arboreal habits of the reclusive orangutans until techniques of observing from the treetops were invented. Jane turned out to be an apt successor to Banks, Solander and Darwin. The method, perhaps verbalized earliest by Schaller (predecessor of Fossey), is to observe animal society from inside it. Jane and Dian obtained immediate success by pretending to be a non-dominant female of the band. Jane concludes to conscious, intelligent and human-like society by observing the responsive interactions of the apes to each other and (to a lesser degree) to herself. Where other schools deny the validity of subjectivity or the use of the human analogy, Jane presents a pretty credible picture, and also the only epistemologically sound one. She finds, as it were, the essence of the apes, and finds that it is a simpler version of ours.	2002-04-08
US	37233945	R3UCO5A4L2K81U	0451049993	829337554	If They Come in the Morning:Voices of Resistance	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Turning the Ship Around	This smallish paperback book is just possibly the most influential piece of literature written in the 20th century. The topic is revolution, the issues, racism and sexual discrimination, the incident, the imprisonment of Angela Davis (and many others). There are contributions from some of the most famous revolutionaries of the 20th century. They did not achieve their goals as stated. However, what is revolution? The ship of state confronted their movement and changed direction, no doubt about that. Two overtly racist systems came down, here and in South Africa. On the cover of the book, you may see a picture of the young Angela, smiling, with the large afro hairdo we have come to know. May you be forever young.	2002-04-06
US	37233945	R261WQXJDGDZK5	B00005VIDQ	947926869	The battle is the pay-off	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Ernie Pyle of North Africa	Captain Ingersoll represents a point of view we haven't seen in this country for 50 years, but now may again be relevant. The United States army is the American people at war. Ingersoll takes us through the details of adjusting to the army and life in the outdoors and finally of going into battle. He states many of the operational details in the same way that Ernie Pyle used to do in \\"This is your war.\\" Ingersoll is convinced of the righteousness of his cause against an evil enemy and takes for granted the same opinions in his countrymen. The book exudes victory at every line. There are no graphics, except that the end papers give a large map of the North African campaign as he knows it. This is a good primary historical source.	2002-04-06
US	37233945	R350U6856T3958	0212998463	990679816	Ancient Britons: How They Lived	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Britain in Prehistory	This book is a valuable resource on the prehistory of Britain for teens and children in late childhood. Two scholars and an artist collaborated to produce a brief and very true view of a great deal of prehistory. The drawings of Marjorie Maitland decorate every page. They include artifacts and scenarios of daily life. There are basically two editions of 1969: the British by Baker, which is worth a little more, and the American by Praeger. The Praeger edition has light brown boards and gold lettering on the spine.	2002-04-04
US	37233945	R3NBRM88712BV	0531037134	546733594	Alpine elite: German mountain troops of World War II	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Edelweiss	A former British soldier compiles with loving care information about the German elite Gebirgsjaeger (\\"mountain\\") divisions in WWII. The book is dedicated to his wife, Edeltraude. Lucas spots the main paradox right away. These devout Catholic men from a loving and generous part of Austrian society were giving their very best to preserve a devil, who, if he had won, would have destroyed their entire way of life. He hints at an answer in their value system: their professionalism, pride of organization loyalty to each other, and above all their boyish glee in mountain-climbing and performing the seeming impossible. These are the men who, practically for a lark, planted the nazi flag atop the inaccessible Mt. Elbrus, where there were never any enemies. With regard to their ultimate fate against the Russian army, Lucas shrinks back from story-telling. ...The book includes black-and-white photos.	2002-03-23
US	37233945	RWUUR77QK5UB5	B00005VZXU	100496869	Headhunting in the Solomon islands around the Coral sea	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The sun also sets	Two women travel about the Coral Sea painting portraits of natives and visiting plantations there in the late '30's. To us, the names of these then and now peaceful tropical places are loaded with horror and regret: Guadalcanar, Rabaul, Bougainville. Prophetically Mytinger details an incident on a British copra plantation in a world vanished away like smoke: the missus kicks a bush boy for using cocoanut husks on the fire, which burn too brightly. &quot;Can every English clergyman's daughter kick like a kangaroo?&quot; asks Caroline. Later the copra shed burns down mysteriously, ruining the missus. Her husband had died some time before and her thumb was infected. &quot;It was the fact that she did not throw her head on the table and sob like any woman that undid me. I went for a walk down on the beach and did it for her.&quot;	2002-03-22
US	37233945	R1BHET090P6FJO	9997407032	130703729	Freedom Road	Books	3	4	21	N	N	WAIT a MINute!	The Works of Howard Fast are incendiary,no doubt...Whether he rises into the sunlight of great literature, as does Steinbeck in works of a similar genre, or remains in the depths of vituperation, remains to be seen...The important thing to remember is, all of his characters and situations are strictly FICTIONAL and have nothing whatever to do with history, even those put forward as being historical! In \\"Spartacus\\", for example, his Spartacus is a man totally made up according to the Marxist scheme of things. With all the real sorrows to get excited about, why are we spending time on fictional ones? However, if you want the best of Fast, you need to read \\"The Hessian.\\"	2002-03-21
US	37233945	R2U67FVDY8L383	0553267833	315830860	Toughlove	Books	5	16	24	N	N	What happens when civilization fails?	Tough love is not for young people who respond to the support network we provide to help them with their problems and make them feel accepted. Does your young person trash the house, terrorize his/her parents with profanity, beatings and ejection from the house, deal dope, commit larceny or arson and sneer at all socialization? Then, your network is not working! In vain will you seek \\"techniques\\" of control, which do not apply here. The tough love method is not to condone uncivilized behavior but to initiate social action (courts, police, agencies) if necessary (and it usually is) and to let the young person take the consequences of his/her actions without interference, asserting that you love this person and stand ready to reward any repentance. The latter is usually a long time in coming. Meanwhile, you desperately require the support of your peers, and that is the reason for the group. Don't underestimate it. It may be all you have. The chance to share your specific problem with others possibly worse off is invaluable. Go to the group!	2002-03-19
US	37233945	R3I1TAZLEY2KNG	0385039549	814125973	With God in Russia	Books	5	16	22	N	N	Tough ministry for a tough guy	Born in Pennsylvania and growing up as a tough guy on the street, Father Ciszek surely blundered into one of the toughest ministries ever. He had the worst case of historical myopia this reviewer has ever seen, but such a trait may have been required to lead him to his prison ministry. He gets a fixed idea that he must minister in Russia. In seminary in Poland when the Russians overrun it, he decides on his own to enter Russia, obtaining reluctant approval at the last minute. When does he enter? You guessed it - after the Germans invade Russia. He picks a Polish pseudonym and heads for the front! Naturally, the NKVD arrests him for espionage, but after thorough investigation are totally stymied by the good father. They offer him a ministry at the front, but he turns it down, at a time when 40 million people are dying and the Russians are fighting for the right to exist at all. So, he goes to the camps. There he keeps the flicker of faith alive among the hopeless. Miraculously, at the end of his working ministry, he gets to be repatriated and retire in the U.S.	2002-03-18
US	37233945	R1DDMCD4JU7Z7J	0670149233	553078389	The battle-ax people: beginnings of Western culture	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Indo-europeans from the Caucasus	This beautifully written and well-illustrated book explains to junior readers everything they might want to know about the Indo-europeans as they must have appeared at the spread of Kurgan III, about 3000 BC or so. It is an excellent adjunct to such works as the American Heritage Dictionary, which lists Indo-european roots. It is a valuable source for reports and papers. After reading this book, your child will know what is meant by some major terms of ancient history: Kassites, Mitanni, and the like, and just what we have in common with the people of Iran and India. The book does have one minor flaw: its date. Without benefit of Mariya Gimbutas, Vlahos has all the people of India and Europe pouring out of the valley between the Great and Little Causasus, an unlikely scenario. What happened to the Georgians there we never hear.	2002-03-16
US	37233945	R3G9PYW2LK4P5A	0395448956	438664290	The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Third Edition	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Heritage Far Earlier Than American	In a land of great dictionaries, this one stands out as being the one that most expresses what it really means to be American. This is the people's dictionary. Two of its features are its accessibility and its comprehensiveness. You can use this dictionary absolutely for free on the Internet; however, for convenience you might want the hard copy. A 1 3/4 margin on every page is reserved for the numerous miniature pictures illustrating the entries. The text is designed for readability. However, you must not think scholarship is in deficit. Oh no. It was great day for us when Harvard University's Calvert Watkins agreed to do the appendix on Indo-european roots, which keys us in to a language tradition thousands of years old. Nothing else like it is readily available. If you look at the panel of other experts, you will readily see that this dictionary truly is the language reference of our united people. No loving care for our intellectual well-being is stinted by minds that came from many heritages.	2002-03-15
US	37233945	R1VXPNIF98BUAY	B00005X1OD	984064982	Uncle Arthur's bedtime stories	Books	5	33	38	N	N	God and Uncle Arthur	If you have ever doubted that God takes a hand directly in the lives of children, or that he tramples out the grapes of wrath among them, or that punishment for greed and vanity is swift, sure, inevitable and irrevocable, or that compassion is like a great, warm mother, read Uncle Arthur. His stories have the power to rivet children to the spot. They know he is talking about them. Each story is a moral or Biblical lesson entire. For example, Johann is driven out of the house into the snow on Christmas Eve by \\"an angry and brutal stepfather.\\" Turned away from fine, large houses, where do you think he finds unquestioning and loving mercy? The cottage of a poor old woman. \\"Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these My chldren...\\"	2002-03-14
US	37233945	R22CNHNQXTLK76	0688000606	157284105	The Two Worlds of Jim Yoshida	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Paradox of Identity	Life is nothing if not an identity crisis, but few of us have had to face the extreme paradox that Jim Yoshida did. A great paradox requires a great affirmation, and Jim fought hard to make it, succeeding outstandingly finally. Raised in Seattle, a high school football star there, he travelled to Japan with his family in 1941 to return his father's ashes and was caught by the outbreak of war. A student of martial arts, especially Judo, he suddenly found the two dearest sources of his identity in mortal combat with each other. Drafted into the Japanese army, he was carried away weeping and shouting for his mother. Thanks to the harsh treatement of Sergeant Kido, he was not of much use to the Japanese army and never rose far within it. As it turns out, Kido was another nisei, looking after him and making sure he drew no suspicion on the two of them. After the war Yoshida fought long and hard to win back his American identity, serving more usefully in the Korean War, and taking the matter to court. He won the backing of the veteran, Senator Inouye, a significant character reference. The judge simply ruled that he had been a citizen all along, and thanked him for his Korean War service.	2002-03-10
US	37233945	R3UC60Y41BUKF1	0802131867	727771871	The Subterraneans	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Reviewers Out-Kerouac Kerouac	Kerouac generates a lot of emotion because of the beatnik settings he uses, feelings which come from the same causes that created the beatniks, the desire to escape the pressures and conflicts of American society. However, Kerouac is not a beatnik, &quot;On the Road&quot; has nothing to do with being on the road (as were the hippies) and &quot;The Subterraneans&quot; has nothing to do with leading a secret honest life underground. These works are scathing satire. In each case the professed ideology of the main characters varies markedly from their behavior. Even in the process of trying to escape underground, the subterraneans can't get away from themselves. Reading these reviews is like reading Kerouac characters in context.	2002-03-08
US	37233945	R2RMU7SK2JBKAW	0896082547	857835404	Amway: The Cult of Free Enterprise	Books	5	96	110	N	N	In Memoriam	Steve was a very successful Amway person, making about 80K per year on it. Knowing what kind of person he was, I held aloof in disbelief as he tried to drag me into the cult. That is part of the Amway method, to drag the friends and relatives in. He played the game up to the hilt, but stopped short of total success. Later he redeemed himself by publishing this book. You should know that the book was used in evidence in a case against Amway. Steve was a witness. Steve's intent was to show clearly how &quot;ye cannot serve both God and Mammon.&quot; He does state that he was never willing to give up his immortal soul. According to him, the cult takes over your entire life and you cannot hold any values that are not directed to making money for them (and yourself). I know this because he was my brother. For you, Steve, now that you cannot speak for yourself.	2002-03-07
US	37233945	R270DS4S4CLTBM	0912692367	934824413	Beyond the exit door	Books	5	0	0	N	N	My Sheep Know My Name	I knew Bob and June Vetter in the 1970's. They had a ministry for the divorced and widowed, to whom they generously threw open their beautiful home periodically. We listened to speakers in the ministry and out, we went on get-aways to a ski lodge, and all for next to no expense to us. We shared our problems, Bob and June too, and prayed for each other. They kept it positive, upbeat, never allowing a despairing frame of mind. God does not promise that we shall have no problems. The God to which we prayed and the God described in the book, is a deeply personal one, caring for each one of us, bringing ultimate victory out of defeat. Tracking our prayers and the answers to them, we found plenty to rejoice over. The trick is to get right with God first, seeking first the kingdom of heaven.	2002-03-07
US	37233945	R3U9TR2RBA7YE5	1556431767	380869408	The Double Mirror: A Skeptical Journey into Buddhist Tantra	Books	5	91	100	N	N	In Memoriam	Raised in New England, Steve was well-indoctrined in our culture of plain speaking and no b.... For a time, opposition to the war and formation of a union occupied his best efforts, as well as an active teaching career. Then he discovered Tibetan Buddhism. What appealed to him most, I think, was its attack on vanity. When you strip away all the high-flown, hypocritical ideals that lead us hither and yon, what is left? Steve thus entered the cult already possessing what it had to offer, and not knowing it. One of the key tenets of Buddhism is no b.... (perfect honesty is the path of Nirvana). He practised that with might and with main. His total honesty in this book led the cult to reject him, and they refused to officiate at his funeral. One of his last memories was of standing unadmitted outside the hall listening to the drunken party going on inside and feeling hurt and rejected. The thing that made him hurt, that was his soul. He had one. I should know, I was his brother.	2002-03-07
US	37233945	RUZIBB3YB75IB	0525055452	184757711	Annapurna	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Truth Wins Over Strength	Parallel to the challenge of the external mountain is an internal one. Maurice Herzog takes every chance to win the top of Annapurna, but, giddy with altitude, he stays a moment too long after the others have gone down. He loses his gloves. Getting down somehow he is carried off the mountain with suppurating limbs, screaming and crying the whole way. From his hospital bed he reveals &quot;the deep significance of existence&quot;: &quot;It was better to be true than to be strong.&quot; The government of Nepal understood and agreed, conferring on him their highest honor, the Gurkha Right Hand. The book tells the story, with maps and pictures. On the inside cover is color photo of Annapurna, set like a cold, white jewel in the deep purple of space.	2002-03-06
US	37233945	R2Y2Y3SITM1GBZ	0800790707	928200274	The Cross and the Switchblade	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Providence Visible	If you need any reliable witness accounts of Providence in action, this spellbinding account is surely one of them. David Wilkerson, a Pennsylvania preacher, feels guided to talk to an imprisoned gang member about whom he has read. Trying to get to see him, he finds himself in jail, but this very experience brings him to the gang's attention. From this beginning has grown an entire movement for providing sanctuary from violence and chances for new beginnings where before there were none.	2002-03-06
US	37233945	R19JKO5DTQZROZ	0870237306	439874734	Quabbin: The Accidental Wilderness	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Creating Massachusetts	Have you ever wondered why the state of Massachusetts can now support such a high population density? Have our periodic droughts ever piqued your curiosity as to where the water for the city of Boston comes from, when the towns around it must observe water restrictions? What happened to the cholera-laden wells that used to water Massachusetts and keep its population down? This professional report to the people details step-by-step the razing of the pleasant town of Enfield and the creation of a 10-mile-long reservoir in the former Swift River Valley. One accidental effect was the restoration of a wilderness area to which the eagles, long gone from massachusetts, have returned.	2002-03-02
US	37233945	RUF4PX8AB0HCK	0883680203	163923140	Dominion over demons	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Get the Devil Out Now!	This well-written little book, fully supported by scripture quotations, is a practical guide to casting out the devils and binding them to the pit. There are many more than the seven deadly sins, and they all have symptoms, but you can catch them by name and cast them out by the power of Jesus Christ. This is one point of view, but it is just as effective as any psychiatry or psychology of which I know, perhaps more so.	2002-02-28
US	37233945	R2YZI9YMX5IZIU	0816300321	798520089	Desire of Ages	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Jesu. Joy of Man's Desiring	This is an excellent book for the ordinary people on the ancient theme celebrated in song and story, mentioned in the title. Have you never wanted more from life? Why, and what hope have you? The book is a series of stories from the life of Christ expostulating and illuminating the final causes of these events. Ellen does not spare her opinions. She serves as our preacher. Each story is illuminated by a full color repro of a painting by John Steel, or Harry Anderson, with spot illustrations by James Converse. The art is a feast for more than the eyes.	2002-02-28
US	37233945	RXTZS34HKZAXL	0394414462	526050421	The Algiers Motel Incident	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Detroit Racism Comes Alive	John Hersey needs no raves from me. At chronicalling the major events of the 20th century in living prose he has absolutely no peer. In this book he focuses in on the entire racist system acting in one chilling incident of the Detroit Riot of 1967, in which the police, trapping several people of mixed ethnicity tortured some of them, murdered others, and could not be brought to justice.	2002-02-26
US	37233945	R2KCTF2KV0K36Q	B00005XC7Y	481107668	The Charm of the Chapel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Ordinary Man Is Heroic	This well-written, beautifully illustrated book captures Boston University the way it was in 1950: a quiet, determined force for social change. No one needed to burn any buildings there. Peace, brotherhood, equality and self-reliance were already being taught in the very capital of abolitionism and hope for the ordinary man. Out of this loving humility somehow rises the heroic, captured in the stained glass windows and other monuments of the chapel, and written about so well by president Daniel L. Marsh. For example, we see, in full color, the window of the four chaplains, who died when the Dorset went down, after giving away their life jackets. One was a BU grad. These and the others depicted in the chapel were the true champions of freedom. Charm? Certainly, and more than that.	2002-02-25
US	37233945	RI6J2M7RDRIYU	080071556X	137644731	Always a Springtime	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A Bouquet of Hope	Well, it isn't Walt Whitman. However, these polychrome poems in this polychrome book surely reveal a soul in living color. Every page glows with the floral illustrations of Steffi Karen Rubin in watercolor. This is a book for the faithful seeking the hope of faith. You must read with the heart of a child.	2002-02-24
US	37233945	R2MHM9KKFYYYGH	B00005X26K	239737678	United States Naval Academy, the first hundred years	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ex Scientia Tridens	This excellent, concise narrative in simple prose and double-spaced font for easy reading relates the real history of the academy as historical fact. We don't get any propaganda here. There's no cover-up of the hanging of Midshipman Spencer on the Somers in 1842. Most to be treasured are the antique photographs and repros of paintings, albeit mainly black and white. Want to see George Bancroft, David Farragut on deck, Ernest King, young and old, Bull Halsey, young and old, the academy the way it was in WW II?	2002-02-24
US	37233945	R1K0CTYHPICF00	0876651708	911987389	Involvement in Psychology Today	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Put the Peg into the Hole	This book is a comprehensive survey of the kinds of psychological testing available in 1972. Under each section, you get a full-page example of the most significant test question and a write-up on what it is supposed to do. Want to know what the academic and corporate categorizers were up to in 1972?	2002-02-23
US	37233945	R1PSVWGN4LLFEA	0140043152	960473308	Outermost House	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Know Thyself	Henry Beston on the trail of Thoreau's great hike along the cape stays to capture if he can &quot;the very psyche of animals&quot; and rises to metaphysical levels with the greatest command of the English language. Nature exists, he finds, and &quot;creation is here and now.&quot; Everything acts, and acts characteristically, and in detailing their interactions he discovers that he is in them also. Outermost house leads inevitably to innermost house.	2002-02-23
US	37233945	R1OU48ZXOEKTGX	0060652691	872143532	Insight: A Study of Human Understanding	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Discovery of Understanding	This classic book in epistemology by a leading scholastic examines the process of forming concepts from a subjective point of view in the long tradition of philosophy descending from Aristotle and others and continued by Catholic thought. This school does not utilize experimental data and does not offer neuron models. Accepting inner experience as prime scientific data, Lonergan examines the process of forming an understanding through its perceived specific instances. You will be led to an understanding of understanding, if you will, and only if you will.	2002-02-23
US	37233945	R1WNHS179EEIJ4	080541309X	609375267	Essentials of New Testament Greek (English and Greek Edition)	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Greek from a Latin Point of View	There are two social traditions in presenting Greek, the Biblical and the classical. Summers presents the Biblical, a somehwat simplified view, adequate perhaps if you are not really going to read the Bible in Greek. Stepping in where classicists fear to tread, he applies Latin terminology to the Greek language. We learn that Greek has an ablative and an instrumental. He means, of course, that those cases have merged with the genitive and dative in Greek. Caveat imperitus.	2002-02-23
US	37233945	R3G38DFNKYINCI	0380709546	226547601	Ramona the Pest	Books	4	0	0	N	N	We Love Pests Anyway	Ramona is not a pest! She only gets stuck in the mud because it is nice mud. She only pulls blonde hair because it is so springy, and its owner is so popular. Is there one reason why Ramona should not drop out of kindergarten rather than stop pulling hair? There might just be one ....	2002-02-22
US	37233945	R305CQTT4MHPHM	0883472368	202041730	The Long Loneliness: An Autobiography	Books	5	19	23	N	N	The Origin of American Catholic Radicalism	Dorothy takes us step by step through the encounter of Catholic Christianity with the conditions that created reform, radical and unionist movements in the United States in the first half of the 20th century. We see at first hand the tension between reality and the values of an articulate female activist brought up in the Catholic tradition. Once you pick the book up, you won't be able to put it down.	2002-02-20
US	37233945	R3P5E9O8TDJ91A	0394424549	581966797	The FBI Story: A Report to the People	Books	3	5	8	N	N	One Man Investigates the F.B.I. in 1956	The year is 1956. Nihil obstat J. Edgar Hoover, imprimatur F.B.I. Does it contain the inside story? Not very likely. For telling us what J. Edgar wanted us to hear according to his own values, the book has no peer. It probably does present many of the bare facts of the formation of a government agency.	2002-02-20
US	37233945	R327LALJ7BLTHI	087044123X	541926465	Dinosaurs (Books for Young Explorers)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	National Geographic Book for Young Explorers	A wonderfully illustrated book of dinosaur life with full-page paintings by Jay H. Matternes and photographs of fossils in situ as well as museum reconstructions. The text is written for a child under 10 or for someone to read to a small child who is looking at the full-color illustrations. Pronunciation guides to the names are included.	2002-02-19
US	37233945	R2XK30VUWUZTTC	0152992871	123918309	The Wonder World of Ants	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Story of Human-like Ant Societies For Children	An animal behavior book for children of 9 give or take a few years, illustrated by the author in black-and-white drawings. The book does a good job of presenting different types of remarkable ant societies: harvesters, farmers, cattle keepers, slave makers, and so on. The author doesn't clutter the text with scientific detail. The presentation is an analogy to human societies.	2002-02-19
US	37233945	R3QNVQY130IBO1	0385004796	557332606	10,000 Garden Questions Answered by 20 Experts - Two Volume Set	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Poor Man's Gardening Encyclopedia	This simply written, concise, two-volume set tells you absolutely everything you want to know about gardening, even including sections on lawns and landscaping. No detail is spared. Scientific names of species are given only where necessary. Illustrations are black-and-white woodcuts. If you are going to do extensive gardening and want an inexpensive but comprehensive reference, this is the book for you!	2002-02-18
US	37233945	R210RPQO3GSTC1	0709119895	642538427	Bermuda in Full Colour	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Escape to Bermuda	This well-written book is more than just a summary of why you should go to Bermuda. Beginning with an overview of its raucous history, supported by woodcuts and pictures of documents, it goes on to capture the major monuments and places in stunning color, supported by succinct descriptive prose. If you can't go there, at least you can visit it in pictures.<br />You will find a few problems in trying to identify this book exactly. Hannau cites 3 publishers: Doubleday, Argos and Hale. The Hale uses colour for color, but the others use color. Hale also has an ISN but the others an LC #. That number appears in the Argos, but LC lists the Doubleday under that number. LC also states that the popular edition is \\"The Bermuda Isles in Full Color.\\" The Doubleday is dated 1970. The Argos is identified as \\"revised edition\\" and many sellers give it a 1973 date, from where I do  not know. The Argos of Miami is stated to have been printed in Spain. Confused? Me too. In any form, it is a good book.	2002-02-17
US	37233945	R339STOVGV7MD5	0879630086	901284356	Pauline's	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The Wings of the Soiled Dove	This excellently written, well-thought-out book is a study in the philosophy of conscience on two levels: Pauline's as an individual, and that of the society in which she found it necessary to survive. We read first-hand of Pauline's own yearning after and struggle for decency, her despair over her rejection by the church, her compensatory generosity and altruism. She knows her sin: being mercenary, but somehow the memories that she treasures end by being more compassionate than mercenary, even as she insists that the vices of man put her own greed in the shadow. Above and beyond the person of Pauline Tabor is the question of where the oldest profession in the world fits or should fit in society. We see this being faced by the most influential people in the town, with no resolution. Humanity is still humanity. Adam was a man of the earth, nor can we moralize away the dust that clings to him. We don't see here the hard women of &quot;East of Eden&quot;, but a real one, who faced with compassion issues more common to another time, when society was not as kind to women on their own.	2002-02-17
