US	37304756	R2IIOFQZ8IMLHC	1591021170	78719653	Defending Science-Within Reason: Between Scientism and Cynicism	Books	4	10	16	N	Y	Competent but not inspirational	Susan Haack is a great write rof accessible philosophical texts.  I first encounterd here Philosophy of Logics several decades back and was impressed with its breadth, which is what I needed at the tie, but not its depth (which is what I needed later). In many ways, this book exhibits the same strengths and limitations.  First of all, there is a competent tour around contemporary pro and anti-scientism positions.  Let's face it, this is a quite a task in itself.  Secondly, there is the critique of the various positions.  This is where the limitations are found.  The book really does not add anything new to the debate, nor turnover the ground in novel ways. For instance, the chapers on the law and science and univeristy capitalism and science could have been much condensed - and more cogent material is available in some of the priamry sources.  The overall thesis of the work is that common sense has some cultuer dependencies, some knowledge dependencies and some practice (or pragmatic in the technology sense) dependencies. Hard and fast judgements are therefore defeasible and opend to revisions, but the overall success of science in explaining and predicting a range of phenomena lends it a substantial objectivity - in terms of there being a body of knowledge.  Most readers will agree with this position but arguing the epistemological nitty gritty is entirely different when it is looked over with the eye of a professional sceptic.  It is at this level that the book begins to fade, falling back on appeals to value laden ideas about success and common sense.  The argument is reminiscient of Hao Wang's support for what he called 'substantial factualism' - an appealing common sense thesis but difficult to justify philosophically without begging the question.  Unfortunately the admirable breadth of the book is not matched in depth on this point.	2005-10-12
US	37304756	RZ8T16W898H3D	0974707708	912611423	The Quest for Consciousness: A Neurobiological Approach	Books	4	22	30	N	Y	Pure eliminativism without philosophical sophistication	Vision. Attention. Temporal procesing. Consciousness.  Subject these areas to orderely analysis and the neurl correlates of consciousness are vaguely hoving into view.  This essentially is the strategy pursued in the book. Since the visual cortex has received an enormous amount of scrutiny, the book has a rich stream of theory and result to draw upon.  Secondly, the connection between visual processing and attention has long been noted in early infant development - joint attention being a developmental milestone.  A range of studies of various brain insults have indicated that impaired temporal processing affects the unity of report self-awareness.  So far the book is on the winning track. However, when it comes to grounding consciousness the evidence is much thinner.  There is a still a huge amount about the brain we simply do not understand, e.g. from what kind of computational model (if any) is appropriate to the function and organisation of large ranges of nuclei.  Koch has shielded himself somehat by sticking with largely established results.  There is an amount of question-begging nevertheless.  Overall the latter fifty pages focus on the NCC idenitifcation probelsm and in line with our lack of knowledge, the coverage is patchy. One naggign question that is not addressed is whether consciousness is the 'same' for everyone? For example, research into autism, congential blindness and congenital deafness has revealed that the world of people and self are apprehended differently. It would have been interesting to have Koch's views on the 'consciousness' of the impaired mind - or impaired brain.<br /><br />While I found the book intersting to read I was not very satisfied at the end of it.  A savannah of philosophical questions are simply overlooked.  Secondly, many paragraphs and arguments are prefixed with the phrase 'Francis and I...'  This was entirely unnecesary and suggested either grandiosity or else a thinness of argument that needed the heft of the fame of a historical figure to get it through the door. It would be very intersting to read another edition of this book where more weight was given to the philosophical and computational conundrums that accompany eliminativist thinking.  Despite these reservations, it is a book worth musing over.of a historical figure to get it through the door. It would be very intersting to read another edition of this book where more weight was given to the philosophical and computational conundrums that accompany eliminativist thinking.  Despite these reservations, it is a book worth musing over.	2005-10-12
US	37304756	R2LZVNGRBAFSEA	0262025485	149737887	What Is Thought? (Bradford Books)	Books	2	25	27	N	Y	Interesting but replete with hasty argumentation	The main thesis of this book, asserted repetitively, is that the mind is a computer program.  Once this is borne in mind, pardon the alliteration, most of the book is reduced to an argument in its favour, rather than an investigation into its credibility. The book often reaches for blunt assertions to support its positions and only afterwards begins a slight retracing of steps.  For example, we are told that inductive bias and learning algorithms are coded into the genome. It is obvious, bit of speculation on DNA, evolution and algorithms and out comes the result!<br /><br />In his observance of Occam's Razor, the author confuses the appeal of the simplest explanatory hypothesis with the belief that he has found such.  The discussion of neural networks leaves aside recurrent networks, which are probably more biologically plausible than competitors.<br /><br />Likewise the idea that the brain essentially 'runs' compressed programs due to evolutionary endowments is unconvincing and philosophically leaky.<br /><br />I don't want to be over critical of the book as it has brought together many interesting strands of work, but it just has not woven them into anything interesting.  There is little new here, whether from modularity or evolutionary programming constraints on neural activity.  A lot of it is speculative and several of the key themes are discordant due to under analysis of their assumptions.<br /><br />Several of the elaborations verge on the frivolous.  For example, there is a particularly woolly argument linking the learning of Scheme to \\"what goes on in constructing our understanding of the world\\" (p. 222).  Likewsie in discussing awareness and consciousness, the author relies on the use of 'main' in C to metaphorically explain how information might come together in the brain (p. 413-415).  All kinds of reification fallacies come to mind, leaving aside the thinnes of the argument.<br /><br />The bottom line is that the book pursues a strong cognitivist program (the brain is a computer) without convincingly examining various sides of the argument. I was certainly no wiser off at the end of it.gnitivist program (the brain is a computer) without convincingly examining various sides of the argument. I was certainly no wiser off at the end of it.	2005-10-11
US	37304756	R10XWB8QLE62SB	0804749264	492814523	Knowledge and Money: Research Universities and the Paradox of the Marketplace	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Must read for academics in higher education	This book is not as hyperbolic as others touching on the same themes  It is more measured and thorough across a range of contentious themes defining the university-industry interface.  Readers familiar with work by Bloom, Nussbaum and Slaughter and Leslie (to mention a few) will be familiar with the wailings of liberal arts protectionists.  Gieger is refreshing unemotive about such issues.  His concerns are teasing out the expression and impact of competition and consumerism in the universities over students and research.<br /><br />It is a book replete with interesting and arresting stats and arguments, and I won't pretend to do justice to it here.  However, his analysis of the connection between student retention rates, inter university competition and student consumerism will resonate with most academics' experiences of their teaching environment.  Interestingly, Gieger also mulls over the growing disconnection of research institutes from the educational core mission of universities.  The periphery and centre are no longer in communion -  a point becoming more obvious by the day.  As he points out, criticism that classroom instruction is 'falling behind' is grounded largely in the mistaken supposition that periphery and core are in communion. The weakest part of the book, in my opinion the main blemish, is the last chapter dealing with universities and the markets. It is a bit vague and rambling with the the odd dollop of personal judgement thrown into the mix.  For instance, Gieger asserts that the research market is 'beautifully efficient' (p 249).  Not everyone would agree with this statement nor that efficiency equals either value for money nor utility.  He does conclude this chapter by upbraiding the universities for not investing heavily enough in teaching, and not emphasising that a degree of insulation from commercial activity is desirable.  Nevertheless, the chapter is composed of a lot of sections beginning, Firtsly, Secondly, Thirdly, ... lending a list structure to the text suggesting a hurried approach that jars with the rest of the work.<br /><br />Overall, I found this book informative and in the main lively.  It is not prose on a par with some of the more polemical writers in the field but well worth reading nevertheless.ist structure to the text suggesting a hurried approach that jars with the rest of the work. <br /> <br />Overall, I found this book informative and in the main lively.  It is not prose on a par with some of the more polemical writers in the field but well worth reading nevertheless.	2005-10-10
US	37304756	RMSULBIA4LALG	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	1	63	98	N	Y	Proof that BS is recursive	A book like this doesn't merit much of a review. Not because it is short and brief, but because it is vacuous.  The author's musings on BS could have been put together in a half-page for the New Yorker.  The main conclusion of the book is that people BS because they want to impress others and thereby magnify their stature both publicly and privately. This is neither new information resulting from novel argumentation nor even well analysed in the text.  By the way the book is 67 pages long with double spacing throughout, and only the size of pocket diary.  I give this information to help quantify the BS it contains.  Having read it, I concluded that it was a complete waste of my money.	2005-10-01
US	37304756	R2OZY5TBJ52E9C	0195105052	666317957	Brain Architecture: Understanding the Basic Plan (Medicine)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Needs more diagrams, images and discursive flair	Often the fit between research scholarship and effective writing skills is difficult to achieve.  This book is an example of that unevenness that really should be caught by a good editor.  Personally I found the text educational, interesting and peppered with historical gems that some lent anecdotal dynamism to the work.  However, the illustrations are largly drawn from historical works, which is quaint but not particularly helpful given modern research requirements.  The diagrams in the book are uninspiring grayscale shapes.  I didn't find them informative.<br /><br />The book really kicks off in Chapter 4, The Basic Vertebrate Plan. Disappointingly, Swanson's potentially mouth opening discussion of four rival brain architectures is too abrupt and tails off into vagueness. Its overall tenor is not helped by very plain diagrams of their components. The upside is that he covers the evolution in historical thought very well - of interest to any historian of science. Given my needs (computational modelling) the book was very adequate but only because I had already tucked From Neuron to Brain under my belt a few months previously.<br /><br />The first few chapters cover neuroembryogenesis and the theories of neural plate development.  After that, the book takes off through the vertebrate brain and four main systems (behaviour, motor, cognitive and sensory).  it concludes with a brief chapter on learning and damage repair. The book drives home some points clearly and simply, such as the separate development of motor and sensory ganglion cirucits.  Sometimes the descriptions are clouded by the author's view that conventional descriptors in human anatomy are the wrong way round (or just plain wrong).  For instance, the anterior-posterior axis in humans is also called the rostrocaudal axis by neuroembryologists.  This illustrates one of Swanson's bugbears, viz, that studies of human brain architecture have not made more of comparative neuroanatomy studies. I have no expertise to comment on this issue, but I did question its immediate relevance to the central text.<br /><br />As the book runs through the main human brain systems, it becomes a bit thin in places. More pages are needed to elaborate complex principles and theories than the book affords.  In his discussion of the cognitive system, Swanson argues that the grouping of components in the cerebral hemispheres is buried in a miasma of different and conflicting naming schemes.  It is better to take guidance from embryology, he argues, in determining brain regionalisation schema. This promise of simplifcation, which would make any brain texts more readable at least, is undermined by the supporting diagrams.  Time and again, interesting and intriguing hypotheses and critiques are let down by the lack of high quality visuals.  It is a great pity, given the standards of other texts.<br /><br />I must admit that I found this book interesting and Swanosn definitely stamps his 'own outlook' on the material.  However, I was relieved I had digested something substantially more graphical in the area before reading this book.ertise to comment on this issue, but I did question its immediate relevance to the central text.   <br /> <br />As the book runs through the main human brain systems, it becomes a bit thin in places. More pages are needed to elaborate complex principles and theories than the book affords.  In his discussion of the cognitive system, Swanson argues that the grouping of components in the cerebral hemispheres is buried in a miasma of different and conflicting naming schemes.  It is better to take guidance from embryology, he argues, in determining brain regionalisation schema. This promise of simplifcation, which would make any brain texts more readable at least, is undermined by the supporting diagrams.  Time and again, interesting and intriguing hypotheses and critiques are let down by the lack of high quality visuals.  It is a great pity, given the standards of other texts.  <br /> <br />I must admit that I found this book interesting and Swanosn definitely stamps his 'own outlook' on the material.  However, I was relieved I had digested something substantially more graphical in the area before reading this book.	2005-09-11
US	37304756	R3IXPOAQU9U9BN	0300107293	909673767	Madhouse: A Tragic Tale of Megalomania and Modern Medicine	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Fantastic essay on misplaced medical physicalism	This book describes the treatment of a variety of psychiatric disorders using radical surgery by the American psychiatrist Joseph Cotton.  He was a advocate of the doctrine of 'focal sepsis' which located the seat of mental illness in bacteriological infections of various body organs.  While this may appear crank thinking now, Cotton was simply elaborating one trend in medical thinking at the time. Admittedly his elaboration was robustly surgical.  'Infections' leading to psychoses were found in the teeth, the sinuses, the ileum, colon, almost all parts of the intestines, the cervix, testicles, and naturally the stomach.<br /><br />Cotton's 'enucleation' of offending organs and parts was intended to cure the patient.  However, with mortality rates of 30%, the treatment was much worse than any disease.  Cotton was effectively little more than a butcher that rountinely cut up his patients involuntarily. How did he get away with it for so long? What events finally opened a window on the horror of his methods?  Well these are the stuff of the book. If you know any Kuhn or Lakatos, this book will absolutely grab your attention. Well worth reading.	2005-09-07
US	37304756	R1A9LP5Z276UQI	0471351679	263059442	Neural and Adaptive Systems: Fundamentals through Simulations	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Mindstorms meets NN; same strengths and weaknesses	I am quite conflicted in my thoughts on this book. The pluses are that it is comprehensive, thorough and comes with a useful pedagogical simulator. The minuses are that it is covers a vast range of subjects with a skimpy coat of mathematical and theoretical glue.  When I found myself looking for more maths and theory, the text usually directed me towards the simulation.  The simulations are good but the coding is invisible to the user due the range of NN widgets included (analogous to programming using the Lego Mindstorms visual programing tool).  This is a downside for those hoping to learning coding techniques - there are not explored here - but will suit users that want a workbench to visualise concepts in the text.  I confess that I became bored with the simulator about midway through the book.<br /><br />The authors set themselves a formidable task in producing this book, and depending on the reader's needs thaey have either excelled themselves, or else have concocted a animaed dodo - interesting but near extinction.	2005-09-01
US	37304756	R4FD9OCZKE7T2	0674543300	152197651	Making it Explicit: Reasoning, Representing, and Discursive Commitment	Books	3	9	18	N	N	Too many words addressing too many topics	This books trys to fulfill very worthy philosophical ambitions - drawing attention to the philosophical importance of explicating the obvious.  However the two systemic failings of the text are that (a) it is too wordy, and (b) attempts to address too many topics in detail.  Both of these qualities should have been trapped during the editorial process.  I confess that I am partial to the author's mission.  Unfortunately, the grammatical style of much of the writing is egregiously wordy - even by philosophical standards.  The result is that large tracts in the book are uninspiring and require such careful stalking of clauses as to deprive the reader of rewarding intelligibility.  The second failing arises from the range of topics covered - simply immense - with no thematic core pulling them into a coherent theory.  The book wanders with its topics. I spent too long going through this book not to find something of value in it, but what is there (on commitment, etc.) could be stated succinctly in a much smaller text.  The time I gave to the text would have been more profitably spent on looking back over Hacker and Baker's works on Wittgenstein.	2005-08-27
US	37304756	RG74CSLLQD0BS	087822369X	18374181	Skillstreaming the Adolescent: New Strategies and Perspectives for Teaching Prosocial Skills	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Good if aggression in adolesents is your area	This book is primarily directed at teachers and professionals trying to manage and socially 'skill' aggressive and delinquent adolescents.  The book consists of short exercises sandwiched between buffers of explanatory material.  The exercises are fairly much standard prosocial activities involving discussions and role-plays.  As an overview, or outline, of what to do, these are good. However, the instructional sequences are short, and occassionally vague.  My overall reaction to the book is that it needs a companion manual to realise its usefulness.  There is also a deal of repetition of points that may or may not be useful depending on the audience. The amount of explanatory text is high for a book that is not theoretically laden down, and this weakened its appeal to me.  In my own opinion, it is hard to beat (pardon the pun) for detail Teaching Social Skills from the Boystown Press for this youth segment.	2005-08-21
US	37304756	R1Q0DL3WEOKWM1	0520224612	451771021	Mapping the Mind	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	A pleasure to own for its artwork alone	This is one of the most pleasurable books to own in term so its artwork (far cry from Gray's anatomy0. It reminded me of the exquisite artwork that made Scientific American postively redolent when I was a child many years ago.  The influence of Chris Frith on the writing has ensured that the text is clear and concise on important scientific points.  It does however share the hubris of all modern neuroscience by persistently interchanging talk of thoughts, emptions and feelings with talk of brain activity, brain scan interpretations, etc.  I am loathe to dismiss this epistemological violation as a stylistic error but in the beautiful aesthetic context of the rest of the book I let it slide.  This book is not eye candy, by any means.  The explanations and descriptions are constructed to be read.  However, the artwork reinforces the old adage: a picture tells a thousand words.  If you have an interest in anything to do with the brain, even down to delicate sweetbread fritters in a provncale sauce, this book is for you.	2005-08-21
US	37304756	R2YBKZHJ78O6NZ	0262700824	877578637	Body and World	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Know your Kant well...	Todes has tried to position his work somewhere between phenomenology and transcendatal idealism. Recent interest in this thinking is found in both philosophy and in Artifical Intelligence, both struggling to justify the embodiment of mind for different reasons. However, Todes work is situated in a tradition that views philosophy as primarily addressing major themes raised by other philosophers - a chain of debate.  Hence, it may be difficult to appreciate his work without reasonably thorough knowledge of Plato, Aristotle, Locke, Leibniz, Hume, Kant, Merleau-Ponty, Heidegger, and a number of others.  For instance, it is doubtful if the import of his arguments against Kant's categories of experience and the antimonies can be assessed unless Kant is previously understood (and therefore Hume, etc.).  The hinge for Todes analyses is the issue of the relationship between experience and our understanding of it.  Kant tried to 'solve' the problem by postulating a unified manifold of experience resulting from the innate expression of regulative principles which governed synthetic a priori judgments.  Kant's Critique of Pure Reason encapsulated his epistemology and, as far as he was concerned, rescued knowledge from Humean scepticism.  But what did this imply for the 'body subject'? This is the question addressed by Husserl, Heidegger, and Merleau-Ponty.<br /><br />In this book, Todes renders a series of arguments to show that Kant intellectualised experience, and that there is room for a category of non-conceptual knowledge.  In my own opinion, Todes rendering of Kant's understanding of judgment is mistaken.  Moreover, his observations on nonconceptual knowledge are in the main, minor - again a personal opinion. The later appendices in the book reproduce material sharing an affinity with the obscurantism of Foucault and Derrida - a pity.<br /><br />Overall this is an interesting book if you grasp the Kantian nettle identifed by Todes.  However, I suggest counterbalancing it with Polanyi's Personal Knolwedge for a profoundly different set of arguments and almost contemporary in writing (circa late 50's). Other points of interest are the development of intersubjectivity in the child, which again should be explored against the interiority-exteriority arguments of Todes.  There is too much in the book to cover in a short review, but it does touch on key philosophical issues that will remain of interest for the foreseeable future.it with Polanyi's Personal Knolwedge for a profoundly different set of arguments and almost contemporary in writing (circa late 50's). Other points of interest are the development of intersubjectivity in the child, which again should be explored against the interiority-exteriority arguments of Todes.  There is too much in the book to cover in a short review, but it does touch on key philosophical issues that will remain of interest for the foreseeable future.	2005-08-21
US	37304756	R2QJMVKDA1ZKXV	0262194767	481764037	Leonardo's Laptop: Human Needs and the New Computing Technologies	Books	1	8	11	N	Y	Decent class of cover....that's it	Approximately 250 pages of hybridised vacuity build from snippets of information coralled together.  I can best describe this work as almost entirely cliche ridden.  It is further evidence that human computer interaction studies are largely 'solutions' in search of problems.  The chapter on 'mega-creativity' is replete with casual opinion and banal anecdotes.  Likewise chapters on the 'new education' and 'new medicine' are pitched several degrees below what the average Time or News Week reader would expect in content.  Overall this is a poor piece of work in terms of content and I regret having wasted money on it.  At some point in time, I hope that a Shokal equivalent emerges to debunk the self-aggrandising twaddle that typifies most HCI work.	2005-08-21
US	37304756	R3NF0ZAJ6390Q4	0679744754	26336400	Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Very hard to justify not reading thisbook	This is a fascinating and detailed examination of the evolution of Israel from the perspective of early Zionist aspirations, through to the Hagannah and the IDF.  Morris clearly has access to high quality IDF intelligence and archives. While many reviewers have focused on the Arab vs. Zionist sections of the book - presumably because these tensions feed naive political emotions - the text itself devotes a large amount of space to the double dealing by Britain that sowed the seeds of much of the current conflict.  In my opinion, an understanding of international subterfuges plotted against, and subsequently thwarted by, a nascent Israel is proably the primary added value of this text.  Irrespectove of one's ideological stance, Morris draws together a compelling account of the injustices directed at the early state of Israel (Yishuv).  Well worth reading. Packed with detail and certainly not propaganda.	2005-06-23
US	37304756	R3SJRY698ZHEM6	0521774780	301839343	Roots of Hate: Anti-Semitism in Europe before the Holocaust	Books	4	13	17	N	Y	Scholarly...but is something missing?	The methodolgy adopted by the study involved sampling newspapers in five European countries for anti-Semitism in the forty years before WWII.  Four roots of anti-Semitism are identified for analysis: racial, religious, economic and political. Contra Goldhagen, Brustein concludes that anti-Semitism was not an axiom of 19th century German nationalism.  His other arguments are directed towards the impact of Jewish immigration from the East into Europe (pogroms and the Russian revolution) and the perceived involvement of Jews in the rise of leftwing politics.  Race and religious practice served to further create a uniqueness for the group and a social opacity.  There are a large number of challenging theses and arguments in this book.  Facile certainties about anti-Semitism are explored in detail and some of the conclusions are controversial, e.g. about the relatively benign nature of Europe towards the Judaism in the 19th century.  However, this is an exceptionally intelligent book in that it analyses anti-Semitism against a background of general European upheaval in the late 19th century and post WWI.  The book argues that unlike other migrant minorities in search of labour, Jews were both disliked and feared (due to economic prejudices). The methodology of newspaper sampling over such a long period of time is debatable. The conclusion reached is that by and large the newspapers (the 'broadsheets') were neutral towards Jews. There is something missing here and that is a explanation of the potency of anti-Semitism in the political arena.  Some element9s) of popular culture have not been caught in the trawl.<br /><br />In Germany the 'fork' in media coverage came with the rise of the Nazis in 1933. What the book does not explain however, at least to my satisfaction, is how the step from mutterings about anti-Semitism to the Holocaust was accomplished.  In other words, the various layers of social fabric and the vernacular ideology of the 'street' that enabled the rolling out of the extermination program are not satisfactorily explained. Whether the flaw lies in the data sampling, the methodology in general or at the level of testing the wrong hypotehses is beyond the remit of this review.  Nevertheless, this is a book worth reading in its entirety.  It is never strident or reliant upon a tacit acceptance of pre-existing anti-Semitism to force its claims. I must admit in conclusion that it while it clarifies several of the ideological and structural properties of anti-Semitism, it did not provide me with a 'logic of anti-Semitism' sufficient to explain the Holocaust.lling out of the extermination program are not satisfactorily explained. Whether the flaw lies in the data sampling, the methodology in general or at the level of testing the wrong hypotehses is beyond the remit of this review.  Nevertheless, this is a book worth reading in its entirety.  It is never strident or reliant upon a tacit acceptance of pre-existing anti-Semitism to force its claims. I must admit in conclusion that it while it clarifies several of the ideological and structural properties of anti-Semitism, it did not provide me with a 'logic of anti-Semitism' sufficient to explain the Holocaust.	2005-06-15
US	37304756	R1YNJH3L0F6YBO	1578513308	710570833	Cultivating Communities of Practice	Books	2	17	25	N	Y	Some good anecdotes but ultimately politically anodyne	Thre are some interesting anecdotes in this book about groups of people sharing (or not) their knowledge, skills and attitudes.  By and large case studies throw up something interesting, and I think the auhors have got it right there.<br /><br />However where the book fell down for me was in its lack of attention to political analyses.  In essence the book tries to fathom the activities of human groups relative 'knowledge' production without dealing with power ideologies. Consequently, much of it is politically anodyne.  Following the fallacy that technology is neutral the book implies that knowledge has a political neutrality as well. To get the commumities of practice working effectively all one has to do is 'nuture' them and identify 'barriers' for removal. I found little content her but a lot of cotton wool.<br /><br />There seems to be a general trend at the moment which insists on treating knowledge as 'business intelligence' without really grasping the epistemological problems endemic in talk of 'knowledge'.  It is just not subtle enough for my taste.	2005-04-04
US	37304756	R5F29F2UJEHSL	1578517087	81686868	The Social Life of Information	Books	1	12	25	N	Y	The worst psuedo-intellectualism I have read in ages	This book is the worst form of psuedo-intellectualism I have read in a long time.  It is chock full of unexamined philosophical pretensions that anyone even remotely schooled in philosophy let alone educational theory would shudder before. This is a book of jargon for people that want philosophy without tears.  Fundamental distinctions between cognition, learning, information, knowledge etc. are just thrown out onto the page like onions chipped into a frying pan. Unabashed by history, the book blithely sails past whole continents of philosophical work.  The work seems torn between recommending more online interaction (information retrieval) and less of it with a few chants about the importance social contact slipped in as a chorus.  Overall it fails by trying to be all things to all people while never offering an proper critique of technology and its social impact. Can't afford to offend the multinationals here. Possibly goood journalism.	2005-03-23
US	37304756	RAK7HW87DEY90	0130305367	979947444	Instructional Media and Technologies for Learning (7th Edition)	Books	2	22	25	N	Y	Light and introductory with the scent of apple pie	I wasn't impressed with this book for two separate reasons.  Firstly, the production standard struck me as almost 1960s' in style - black and white photos (nice 'grainy' look), big bulky monitors and a general aged format.  It is peculiar I agree, but the book looks like it was written at least 30 if not 40 years ago.  The second set of quibbles I have with the text is that it presume the reader is almost completely ignorant of any kind of presentation technology.  This assumption may have been acceptable several decades ago but the universality of TV seriously undermines its value.  Television is constantly exposting the public to new technologies.  For instance, in the text there is a piece with graphic devoted to how to load a slide projector.  How relevant is that to today's classroom?  Moreover, any decent bit of kit comes with instructions.  I accept that the authors wish to do a thorough hand holding with the reader, but the book assume too little exposure to technology which renders it advice mediocre in places. Possibly it should be retitled Instructional Media Technology for Complete Dummies. The bits on the web are small (literally bits) which is not a good sign.  Overall, the book was lightweight - possibly I am being unfair as I am not looking for the technology it covers, but for  review of current and future developments.  In any event I regret buying the book as it doesn't fit my needs and I didn't like its presentation style.  It is a tired book, more like jaded, that does not mesh well with the style culture of modern multimedia technology.	2004-07-14
US	37304756	R1KLUGPDJ9UXYR	0306466279	869810004	Understanding Asperger Syndrome and High Functioning Autism (The Autism Spectrum Disorders Library)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Continues the debate about AS versus HFA	This book does a good job of addressing the debate about whether Asperger syndrome is really an alternative label for High Functioning Autism or not.  On my reading of the book, it favours the HFA angle which may run counter to European preferences.  A good dealof information is provided an assessment options and thier implications.  Interventions are reviewed quite briefly - understandable given the number involved.<br />In conclusion, it is fair to say that the book is aimed at professionals rather than parents.  I found the writing style a bit too formal (as if the book as an extended journal paper) and that made the book lesss appealing to me.  In terms of wide audience appeal, I would prefer the book on Asperger Syndrome by Christopher Gillberg.	2004-06-12
US	37304756	R3VWNILWQBCWB5	140510838X	14319166	Philosophical Foundations of Neuroscience	Books	5	60	64	N	Y	Excellent, and controversial, critique of neuroscience	Undoubtedly this book contains both excellence in terms of its review thoroughness and controversey by virtue of its conclusions.  It is quite clear from the beginning that Hacker's philosophical stance drives most of the conceptual critique in the book.  It is a complicated book, given the vast variety of themes and attendant analyses, and a short review will do it little justice.  However, Hacker is a later Wittgensteinian, and to appreciate most of the philosophical input the reader should have reasonable knowledge of the contrast between early and later Wittgenstein, and what exactly characterises the core components of the latter.<br />The primary criticism leveled at neuroscience is that it is a conceptual shambles due to repeatedly confusing functions of 'selves' with functions of organs (the brain of course).  Neursoscience is identified with Cartesian dualism by clumsily shifting talk of properties of persons to talk of brain phenomena and assuming them equivalent.  The anvil upon which neuroscience is being philosophically temepered is termed the mereological principle (or fallacy - and you can buy the book for an explanation).<br />Part of the criticism echoes Wittgenstein's 'if a lion could talk we wouldn't understand him', and most significantly recalls previous critiques of private langage arguments (with a nod to Kripke).  It turns out, according to Bennet and Hacker, that neuroscience has been secretly keeping private mental objects alive - presumably in ignorance of philosophical canons.<br />The book concludes with a well argued and welcome broadside against Dennett's intentional stance (a sacred tenet among cognitve neuroscientists) and, unfortunately, a more toothless critique of Searle on intentionality.<br />Is this a good book?  As an exercise in conceptual analysis this is an excellent text to study - and disagree with.  However, implicit in the text is a philosophical backcloth that will not be accessible to many readers outside philosophy (e.g. the presentation of neuroscientific concepts as neo-platonic).  It is an immensely scholarly work, but personally I believe that readers with an informed understanding of Wittgenstein will follow the threads more easily than others.  Nevertheless, I heartily recommend it.e.g. the presentation of neuroscientific concepts as neo-platonic).  It is an immensely scholarly work, but personally I believe that readers with an informed understanding of Wittgenstein will follow the threads more easily than others.  Nevertheless, I heartily recommend it.	2004-06-12
US	37304756	R1RJFFJ9LTKFO0	1843102013	166045956	Succeeding in College with Asperger Syndrome: A student guide	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Very insightful and Asperger friendly	This is a very insightful book.  It is very concrete and you feel as if it has a handle on the reality of everyday life with AS. It really peels back the layers on situations that students with AS encounter in college.  It touches base with so many things that are confusing for students with AS and for the college Student Disability people and clears them up. The chapters cover everything from day one right on to student societies, dating, eating, studying, stress and even psychiatric medial information for depression.	2004-05-18
US	37304756	R1NHU239QCF0FR	193184139X	790463678	Beginning Direct3D Game Programming, Second Edition	Books	2	8	10	N	Y	Not enough thought given to readership requirements	DirectX is difficult to master.  Even drilling down into just D3D is exceptionally challenging for most students. I have been looking for a DX book to use on an undergraduate course and in the process I have reviewd a few. While most books have something to offer few have drawn the whole of any of the DX modules together. Given the standard of the SDK documentation there is a clear need for good textbooks.  My reaction to the present text is that it is very unsutiable for beginners.  In the first place, it is not well written.  Secondly,some of the code is way beyond what beginners could grasp and there is very little hand holding to reassure pedagogues like me. Thirdly, the material of matrices could do with being looked at again.  However, it is not all gloom. The chapter on animation is really very good and well worth spending the time on.<br />All too frequently we see computer programming texts come out without proper regard for the readership.  Occasionally the reading public have the right to expect publishers to get material out there that was written to be read by others. I don't blame the authors, but the publishers who don't put enough editorial weight behind their offerings. I have no doubt but that this book could have been a much more useful book with appropriate editorial input. May be the 3rd edition will be.	2004-05-09
US	37304756	R1BDEDSYL2PN52	0131020099	93456284	Core Techniques and Algorithms in Game Programming	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Broad approach but well worth reading	This text is an intriguing kind of beast.  It gives broad overviews of almost every area that impinges on game engine design, but yet avoids a lot of low level detail in maths and code that one has come to expect - perhaps wrongly?  The result is that you can read this book and speak at a very high level, very comprehensively, about myriad issues affecting 3D game engine design - wihout being able to write a line of code.  Yes, one could be very cynical about this style of presentation but one has to start somewhere on the learning curve. Along this dimension therefore the book is an excellent conceptual text for students.  It reminds me a little in passing of the excellent Turing Omnibus but without the same algebraic grittiness.<br />It is a book to read before reading, say, the two volume Watt and Policarpo or Eberly's book.  There is no doubt that for the student who wants a clear overview of the major current issues in game design, without the whole panopoly of algorithms, this is the best text available.<br />Whether the book would lead you into significant coding projects on its own, is a moot question.  My  personal opinion is that it wouldn't - unless you are already very familiar with the algorithmic implementations required.  An ancilliary text with more DirectX or OpenGl meat would be necessary.  Setting that judgement aside for the moment, it is an excellent text for anyone requiring an academically informed critique of the many design issues in game programming.  Moreover it is also written to be read - a rarity in CS books these days.	2004-04-14
US	37304756	R1ZDR1YMUF4M17	1584502274	720699892	C++ For Game Programmers (Charles River Media Game Development)	Books	2	26	49	N	Y	Very little relevance to game programming	Essentially this is a collection of tips for writing and testing C++ program (presumably better C++ programs).  Firstly, games programming usually implies a treatment of graphical algorithms (rendering, mapping and so forth). Be surprised, but this book doesn't cover the usual material. The title is completely misleading. Secondly, if you don't know C++ then this book will be simply over your head.  The code snippets are just that - snippets.  Many of them, in my opinion, are largely psuedocode in C++ packing. For instance, plugins are presented at so high a level (i.e. so general) that it is difficult to gain anything useful at all from the chapter. Finally, there are good tips and tricks in the book.  However, other C++ books present much the same take on performance improvement, memory management and variable scoping.  The CD has a bundle of presumably working programs (I didn't compile any) which are worth examining.<br />My overall reaction to this book is quite equivocal.  On the one hand if it were another 'how to write great C++ programs' texts, it would be moderately interesting but not top drawer. However, on the other hand, the title suggests that it has a very specific games focus, so you expect game related material.  Largely that just isn't there, hence my rating of the book.<br />To be absolutely candid, having read the other glowing reviews, I was astonished when I received the book to discover that it was largely not about game programming (as typified in texts from Dave Eberly, Andre Lemothe, and Alan Watt and Poliocarpo). I had a completely different set of expectations. Unfortunately they were not realised.	2004-03-09
US	37304756	R3FNRIY03L6D6N	0823020800	59444099	Game Art: The Graphic Art of Computer Games	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Misleading title for a intelligent mine of information	This is far more than a book of glossy game art pics, and certainly not a coffee table prop. Appropriately the book has a number of layers and themes which together provide an absorbing insight into the history of computer games.  The text is free from the gushing sycophantic praise that blemishes many of the genre art books.  Instead the authors produce a clear categorisation of games with illustrations in support. Comments from game designers are likewise intelligent, thoughtful and devoid of self agrandisement. What the reader gets is a book of useful illustrations, clear game categorisation by features, useful insights into game creation and an indication of where the genre is probably headed.  Overall there is a subtle intellectual tone to the book which makes it both a pleasure to flick through but a much more profound pleasure to read.<br />If the book as any underdeveloped theme it is arguably the absence of game postmortems.  What went right? What went wrong?  This would have rounded out the book very nicely.  However, if you are interested in game design and the role of art in creating various immersive experiences, then this is a book to buy and revisit from time to time.	2004-03-08
US	37304756	R2IFRQHNTDAL2E	1556229224	686379216	Strategy Game Programming with DirectX 9 (Wordware Game and Graphics Library)	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Easy to read, easy to follow and reasonable coverage	I am generally on the lookout for books to recommend to my students on games. This is a relatively easy read and the layout is clear.  In other words it is a book that you could hand to a student and expect him or her to make some progress. That's a plus in my opinion.  The author takes pains to elaborate various input and manipulation strategies and there is a sense of completeness about the work (though the domain is limited).  There is a good discussion of the practical use of textures in games with a supporting short appendix on Photoshop.  Artifical intelligence doesn't make any appearance, unless you count the A* algorithm. D3DX is covered but not as a central theme - more of a case of fit it in because readers will expect it. In general, there is a lot of programming material in the book to keep students busy.<br />The book has a number of limitations. It may not be the most appealing text to anyone with game development experience.  In the main the game concept in the book is a bit dated - combat  strategy.  Secondly, there is a large 2D dependency in the book arising from its reliance on tiled graphics.  This shouldn't phase a student but a commercial developer may think otherwise. Thirdly, even though the book was published in June 2003 it relies on the older VC++ 6.0 rather than VC++ .net 2002 (obviously it couldn't use .net 2003).  This is simply sloppy and suggests that the code from earlier projects was dusted off for the book.  I would be more comfortable recommending the book if the publishers brought all the code up to .net 2003 standard.	2004-02-29
US	37304756	R1THC0YJXXP0YA	0787969621	915029340	Simulations and the Future of Learning: An Innovative (and Perhaps Revolutionary) Approach to e-Learning	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	An intelligent debunking book written with passion and verve	I enjoyed this book for a variety of reasons, but primarily because it is iconoclastic.  The author entertainingly recounts his disappointments with elearning.  More importantly he exposes just how ignorant and herd-oriented is corporate thinking when chasing new wonder technologies.  There are a number sketchy cases studies which reveal how mindful people are of others' opinions of their modernising outlook.  Form replacing fuction, rather than following it.  It is an easy to read book with lots of good snippets on the foibles of human nature.<br />The discussion of simulation was geared towards the management model and a number of key issues about testing and interaction are covered. A slight issue I would have is whetehr the motivational model implicit in the environmnet would translate easily to other domains. A question worth pondering.<br />The downside of the book, for me, was that I couldn't get a good enough handle on how the sytem was implemented.  In other words the technical nuts and bolts that hold it together were not clearly grasped by me anyway.  For example, the agent architecture of the system could be explained more thoroughly. If the environment has all the features described in the book, it is an absolutely staggering innovation since it appears to answer many of the most profound problems aggravating the Artifical Intelligence community for forty years, viz. knowledge representation and reasoning.<br />Overall I liked this book. However, I know enough about leadership to realise it isn't found in books.  I would recommend this book, but for computer people like myself, a second edition expanding on the technology would be most welcome.	2004-02-20
US	37304756	R3DABPPCLPSCZQ	0735619077	133615662	Microsoft(r) Visual C++(r) .Net Step by Step--Version 2003 (Step by Step (Microsoft))	Books	5	3	13	N	N	Very useful if C++ .net is your development choice	Some of the reviews appear to refer to a C# version of this book - don't know why, but it needs to be looked into by amazon.<br />I found this C++ book to be invlauble when navigating the new 2003 VS and associated features.  It is not a how to learn C++ book and the title misleading.  It s a book hoever for those who know C++ (intermediate level) but need to learn to negotiate (a) the Visual Studio interface and IDE (which has changed from 2002) and (b) get a basic grasp of .net framework, clr etc under their belt.<br />The book is very good at meeting the requirements of (a) in my opinion.  It is clear and to the point about how to use the new IDE. The exmaple code is not overly sophisticated either whihc is a boon at many levels if your are a student.<br />In the matter of (b), there isa chapter explainign how COM and ActiveX have essentially been terminted in the new framework.  If you don't know COM and ActiveX components, ou will get very little out of it however.<br />My main criticism of the (b) aspects of the book is that they measure up quite poorly against several other excellent MS books covering VB in .net, especially Balena.  MS has had a change of heart about C++ and was considering canning it in the expectation that C# would replace it eventually. Despite this change of heart MS have not produced anywhere near the quality of their other 'VS language+framework' textbooks.<br />If you are learnign C++ nad have only Visual Studio 2003 at your disposal then this is a clear text fro gettign going in the IDE. However, if you already knwo C++ and have a grasp of the IDE then the book will give you the bones of .net framework but nowhere near quality of material found in the several other framewark texts. Nevertheless, I give it five stars because it is so clearly written and easy to follow.	2004-01-09
US	37304756	RIS60WHR9N4I9	0521750334	351291753	Numerical Recipes in C++: The Art of Scientific Computing	Books	2	19	23	N	N	Not as much as a step forward as the C version	I have dipped into the C version of NR since it came out almost ten years ago.  It has been very useful. Having recently got the C++ version I may have had unrealistically high expectations.  It is a good book, but I don't judge that it is that much better from the C version.  All modern C++ compilers accept C programs so you can still get the formidable benefits of NR without moving to this version.  I particularly disliked the size of the header file in the C++ version.  It has to be included in all code (or else write your own individual header files) and since it runs to many thousands of characters, surely it was obvious that no one would spend time entering it?  A bad decision for the reader and user, but one that definitely encourages the purchase of the downloadable code package.	2004-01-05
US	37304756	RGMNTM40WXNU0	193128220X	363909102	Social Skills Training for Children and Adolescents with Asperger Syndrome and Social-Communications Problems	Books	4	133	140	N	Y	Down to Earth approach but needs augmenting	I haven't changed my mind about my first thoughts on this book. It struck me as a competent down to Earth book on social skills training. Largely the book outlines the relevant skill on the left hand page and then provides an explanation of the purpose of the skill and how it can be best developed on the right hand side.  It reminded me up to a point of the Boystown Teaching Basic Social Skills manuals.<br /><br />The positives of the book are that a great number of important skills are covered and the strategies for teaching and reinforcing them are presented.  These features will grab teachers desperate in most cases for some guidance.<br /><br />In my opinion, the negatives are that not every skill is reducible to the format of the book. Many skills are more subtle and difficult to learn, and practice, than others. Also many communciation skills are primarily nonverbal and that needs to be emphasised when dealing with AS adolescents. These issues could have been addressed at greater length in the book and given the intended audience more theoretical work could have been introduced.  One final quibble I have is grouping those with AS and social communication difficulties together.  I think this is a mistake.  AS has a distinct set of diagnsotic criteria.  Social communication difficulties can arise from a variety of non AS related sources.  Boundary blurring is not something I favour.<br /><br />Many teachers and therapists will find this a practical book.  It is not as linguistically geared up as I would like, but it is very accessible.  Ultimately no one book is going to work with every child or group.<br /><br />One of the strengths of teenagers with High Functioning Austim and Asperger Syndrome is their language skills.  Few interventions leverage these skills, while at the same time catering for the behavioural dimension.  For a combined programme I would recommend also looking at Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents. Combined hybrid programs are the next generation interventions.eration interventions.	2003-12-18
US	37304756	R3OXN7APTRWUTZ	0321180968	304683377	Macromedia Director MX and Lingo: Training from the Source	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Plenty of information but could be better organised	There is a lot of information on Director here, but rather less on Lingo than the title suggests.  The CD accompanying the book has several 'bonus' chapters, a feature which I thoroughly dislike.  Files for the various projects are also on the CD - a feature I do like rather than looking up a website.<br />The book is packed with Director tips and techniques and is as good as is available for Director. However, despite all this information, no coherent design philosophy is put forward in the book to help developers. This is a definite shortcoming. Set against that, the projects are interesting in the main, so you can extrapolate.  The section on video control in Lingo is very interesting but too short to get into more meaty topics.  Bizarrely the chapter on Director and the web is on the CD.  The chapter on databases and lists is useful, but limited, and will appeal to programmers in particular. There is a chapter on animation using an 'arm' which is too long winded and really could do with a technical tweaking.  The embeddability of 3D models is covered in a hit and miss fashion. For instance the chapter on Director 3D is on the CD.<br />I am reasonably positive about this book but I got the feeling that the author was upgrading an earlier version.  From an educational perspective, the organisation of chapters and their goals is not ideal.  However, there are really very few good texts on Macromedia products around.  This is a very reasonable and sustained effort.  At some stage it would be very useful if Macromedia actually listened to what their customers are looking for in instruction manuals. Until then, this type of book will dominate the market.  Competent but not great.	2003-12-16
US	37304756	R1TKCI79Z3W8C5	0321113470	136505530	Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Programming (4th Edition)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent undergraduate text	I have looked over a good number of C++ books for several of the undergraduate courses I teach.  The wrong introduction can turn students off a language for life. Finding an introductory book with just the right pitch and level of difficulty is difficult.  Savitch's book seems to fit my needs in this respect.  It is accessible, readable and the examples are clear enough for students to work through without having to look over their shoulders continuously.  yes, it is a litle on the wordy side, but it is a small defect overall. If you will continue to use C++, Savitch is a firm foundation for moving on to other more advanced texts.  The bottom line is that you have to start somewhere in learning programming and this is as good as I have seen in C++.	2003-12-04
US	37304756	RTI05HB8I6N8E	1556229135	125190572	Introduction To 3D Game Programming With Directx 9.0 (Wordware Game and Graphics Library)	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Good balance between text, maths and code	This is a hard to fault book.  My only criticism is that is wasn't longer.  The presentation style is excellent.  Readers will need a grasp of programming in C/C++ and an understanding of the MS environment to get the full learning value from the text. Concepts are explained clearly with supporting relevant code examples.  The book should stand as a model of best practice in the area.  Hopefully the author will produce another volume on dynamics in DirectX some time in the future.	2003-12-04
US	37304756	R2IR9P7HDO3G2G	0201770210	139167261	Macromedia Flash MX Game Design Demystified	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent presentation. Honest coverage of issues	This is a very interesting book from quite a number of angles. The book is strong on discussing Flash centred technique, good on algortihmic tradeoffs but possible a little limited in in its key example. It will definitely help Falsh developers do better.  The author is honest about the limitations of Flash as a game developmnet tool. The bottom line is that Flash is good a tightly defined games where some tradeoff with real-time interaction is allowable, but don't expect tthe full functionality (or speed) of a conventional games engine.  There is a wealth of useful information in the book. If you have any handle on programming and Actionscript you will gain a lot more by taking timeover this book. The coding is good, and the algorithms are actually meaningful and useful.  The author is clear about strengths and limitations of his approach  A very rare characteristic of games books.	2003-12-02
US	37304756	R3FTLM0O3B8K1G	1590590333	714573494	Managed C++ and .NET Development: Visual Studio .NET 2003 Edition	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Thorough but would benefit from more abstraction	This is thorough introduction to managed C++ development. In other words it introduces MS extensions to C++ for the .NET and CLR environments.  If you are writing native C++ mostly, then this book will be of limited interest.  Of course, the reason this book was necessary is due to the overhaul of Framework 1.0 and its updating to 1.1.  The update has done away with the 'old' IDE and pushed users again into relearning class construction, property options, etc. in the new IDE. The author fills a valuable gap in helping to interpret the new IDE for users.  The downside of the book is that it lacks a level of abstraction that would unify the many examples in the book.  This may suit day-to-day programmers, but it may dismay the college student and academic.  Otherwise it is a good book, simply because it is almost alone at present.  However, with the arrival of .Net 2003, early .Net books on C++ may become redundant.  Hopefully MS will bear the cost of learning in mind before changing the .net Framework again.	2003-11-28
US	37304756	R100K6GWR8YQ78	0226511952	458255594	Bad News, Good News: Conversational Order in Everyday Talk and Clinical Settings	Books	3	8	13	N	Y	Unnecesarily drawn out and tired.	The bad news about this book is that there is a much shorter book inside it trying to get out.  The good news is that much of the material is easily read through.  My main problem with conversational analysis (CA) is its principled insistence on disconnecting analysis of spoken utterances from pyschological extrapolations. Consequently a lot of arguably fatuous observations are rarely bundled up and disposed of in a clean analytical fashion.<br />The substance in this book is that people reveal bad and good news differently, and of course react differently. Much of this is at best mildly interesting though, outside academic circles run on professional scepticism, hardly Earth shattering. In the case of bad news the author concludes that people like it to be signalled in advance so they can prime themselves somewhat. Being blunt is not wanted.<br />There is an interesting section contrasting the reactions of clients in a HIV testing clinic on been given either good or bad news.  You could have knocked me down with a feather when it was revealed that clients that received the all clear were relieved and elated and almost chatty, whereas the infected were more 'stoical' and upset.  I presume, fatalistic and angry is more in order.  I must confess I found this sections a bit too voyeuristic for my tastes.<br />In a nutsheel, the book is a large collection vignettes of people's reaction to highs and lows.  In my opinion it is unnecessarily long and the author could have drawn his conclusions together earlier and more quickly.<br />I am uncertain about the contribution to knowledge this type of exerecise produces. To maintain an identity CA has fought to decouple itself from formal linguistics and most of social psychology, who it is addressing and what its scientific objectives are, elude me.<br />I left this book, as I have left other CA books - completely unsure whether the whole enterprise is stuck in a thick fog of vagueness and subjectivity, or is on the threshold of something scientifically respectable.  I am still unsure.ld of something scientifically respectable.  I am still unsure.	2003-11-16
US	37304756	R21QTY6I8T6EH4	0134373774	501368921	Visual C++.NET: How to Program	Books	4	42	44	N	Y	A slightly pear-shaped introduction to VC++.Net	The first thing I noticed about this text is the absence of the familiar colour coding used throughout the other volumes.  Could this be a sign of publisher wariness, or simply cost cutting?<br />The book has much in common (including examples) with the other Deitel and Deitel .Net (C#, VB) volumes. Chapter development and layout is very similar.  The standard of the material is mostly very good as one would expect, but topic coverage leaves something to be desired.<br />Firstly, it's a personal opinion, but I am not convinced that the several hundred pages devoted to web services is what students of C++ (and new professionals) need or want.  Consequently, I ask myself whether this space should be shunted into a separate book.  Secondly, there is a very small amount of space devoted to data structures, roughly 53 pages. Much smaller than needs be given the overall size of the book.  Moreover, the reader only gets to data structures after 1000 pages of text. This apparent underemphasis on data structures raised a variety questions in my mind about the software engineering philosophy of the text. Thirdly, the book explicitly avoids dealing with ActiveX and COM.  Attributes, a new feature in Visual C++ are mentioned in passing, and ATL is not mentioned at all.<br />Overalll, I am less postive about this book than their earlier proramming in C++ text.  It seemed to me from reading the book, that there is a formula at play and material is shoehorned to fit accordingly.  I fully acknowledge that much of the material is excellent and competently explained, but as an overall learning text on VC++.Net I think improvements are required.	2003-11-03
US	37304756	R3EYMYNIYD6K8V	0201774267	544635026	Macromedia Authorware 6: Training from the Source	Books	1	6	6	N	Y	Poor organised and very uneven in quality	This is quite a poorly organised book. Certainly I found it sloppy and longwinded in equal measure. Is anyone editing these Training from the Source books, I asked myself. In any training manual. a good mental model should be easily extracted. This is far from the case here.  The manual and tutorials that accompany Authorware are preferable to this volume's offerings. It is simply too erratic and patchy to meet the objective set in the title.  I would not recommend it.	2003-10-21
US	37304756	RPUO9NL7OC840	0941188248	708716479	Directing Actors: Creating Memorable Performances for Film & Television	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Very useful heuristics for motivating performers	A lot of this book is about motivating actors to perform and respond to director requests.  I found the book useful but a bit too academic in places.  My own approach, as a director of amateur ators, has always been to get an understandign of the limits of the emotional expressivity of each actor and work back from there into the charaacter.  I was glad to learn that the book approves of this tye of method.  Overall, it is a useful book, but there is a mechanical component to its instructional model which may jar with the European outlook.  It is a personal opinion of course.	2003-08-26
US	37304756	R2WRY9QK1KT9IL	0071349847	167436779	The Big Book of Icebreakers: Quick, Fun Activities for Energizing Meetings and Workshops	Books	2	16	19	N	N	Inventive but is it practical?	My first observation on this book is that it is focused on the large group not the small group. However, the rationale for some of the large group focus seems to flow entirely from a preoccupation with dividing large groups into smaller groups and then applying tasks or games to these subgroups.  If you have never thought about working with groups this book may be of some use, but by and large I judged many of the examples were impractical in terms of the time and resources needed to get deploy them.<br />My key reservation about these icebreaker books is that they are written more to help the presenter break the ice rather than any presumed intra-audience barriers.	2003-07-21
US	37304756	R2LCUSAG9499DT	1885477856	783651507	Asperger's and Self-Esteem: Insight and Hope through Famous Role Models	Books	5	30	34	N	Y	Lively, entertaining and obviously provocative	This is a lively, entertaining and obviously provocative book.  Whether you endorse or denounce post mortme diagnoses of AS,one has to admit that soem famous thinkers have had traits consistent with AS.  A whole host of thinkers are listed from science, the arts, music and even the theatre. Some of the choices are likely to be more controversial than others, but I won't comment on that.<br />My major concern with such a book is that it is always open to the charge of selectivity.  The fact that someone had traits consistent with AS does not allow us to derive the conclusion that they had AS.  To be fair to the author, he does make comemnts to this effect in the beginning.<br />The strength of the book is that is in inspirational.  You to can succeed if you have AS. The weaknesse is that skirts the argument that you should only conclude AS when the 'AS traits' interfere with a person's abliity to cope. In other words, Asperger syndrome is only a problem when it is a problem.<br />Nevertheless the book gives us plenty of food for thought.  I hope that the author will produce another with more forensic detail however.	2003-06-25
US	37304756	R1GJKJ5GWVLPER	0967251486	575856128	Asperger's Syndrome and Sensory Issues: Practical Solutions for Making Sense of the World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Informative and entertaining in equal measures	This book brings a much more detailed perspective on early adult life on the autistic spectrum than many others. The fact that it is looking at AS through a man's eyes is also worth noting.  The author touchs on career choice issues that many with AS have agonised over. To disclose or not to disclose being the Big Question.  I won't spoil your reading by recounting the author's experiences.<br />The book describes 'relationships' in candid AS terms.  There is a huge amount here for researchers and professionals to dwell on.  However, the book is not a guidebook for managing relationships better (or even getting into them) and a crucial metacommentary on events in the book is largely absent.<br />Overall I enjoyed this book. Most readers will find the latter half of the book dealing with college and adult life more revealing than the first half, in my opinion.  The book presents AS in sharp tones on occasion.  It is a 'warts and all' narrative, but I highly recommend reading it.	2003-06-25
US	37304756	R3OTP05OCYIKST	1843100959	80006396	Inside Out: What Makes the Person with Social-cognitive Deficits Tick?	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Good vignettes. Nice layout. Shifting focus however.	This is an interesting book pitched at a ground somewhere between parents and teachers. The book lays out information on deficits arising from Autism and PDD. However, most of the vignettes appear to feature children and teenagers with Asperger syndrome.  The book is very clearly written and outlines methods that are useful in teaching the children. Various help sheets are listed at the end of most chapters. It is not a long book, and one afternoon should easily see it read through.  The good points in the book are its realistic appraisals of children's progress through interventions.  The vignettes are particularly illustrative.  It is a very genuine book. However, the book has three significant deficits. In the first instance, the title is misleading since most of the content of the book is addressing teachers, and advising on how to mange the children in various interventions.  Secondly, the book has tried to meet parents and teacher needs, and I am not sure that it does this equally well.  It is difficult to write a book for one audience let alone two or three.  Finally, many of the methods are skated over. They are mentioned but not elaborated.  It is a bit light here.<br />However, taking the book as a whole, it is a good readable introduction to the isses involved. For many teachers the book will be a useful introduction and will help them better frame their requirements for supplementary texts.	2003-06-07
US	37304756	R2V1NC97K5D0Z1	0764525239	221131222	Macromedia Studio MX Bible	Books	2	14	15	N	Y	Fails to deliver on its ambitions	Samuel Johnson remarked once that learning in Scotland was like bread in a siege town.  Everyone got some but none got enough to make a meal.  His quip could equally apply to this book.  It touches on everything, but doesn't cover anything in sufficient depth.  In fact I would tend to view the book as really centered around bringing Fireworks and Freehand into play (contra Illustrator and Photoshop). Freehand and Fireworks get 200 pages each, while Flash gets 90 pages. Dreamweaver gets just under 300 pages, and the surface of many features is revealed. However, there isn't a lot of depth throughout and elaborate examples are avoided.  The rest of the book is focused on Cold Fusion (which was not of interest to me).<br />My personal recommendation is to look at specific books for specific components. Compendium type books, often suggest more than they can deliver.	2003-05-29
US	37304756	R1CK056EFXQQ2O	0764518968	189933313	Adobe Premiere?6.5 Complete Course	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A really excellent learning text	This is the best book I have ever seen or read on Premiere.  It is a superb text. Let me state firstly that I had used Premiere 6.0 before reading this book, but when I upgraded to 6.5 I decided to look for a text that would give me a better model of Premiere than my hacking with it had done. Since I have a few dozen DV tapes I was less interested in the CD contents than in applying the lessons to work I had on hand.<br />If you have touched on early versions of Premiere, and want to consolidate your skills on 6.5 then this book is simply superb.  I would go so far as to suggest throwing out other Premiere texts and sticking with this one.<br />Firstly, this is a book designed with the reader in mind. Every screen action and effect is clearly defined. Small red buttons show clickable areas and blue buttons indicate off screen actions or effects. Secondly, the layout is excellent, with the primary focus being on screenshots supported by textual descriptions.  All the treacks are brought into use and shown, so you get a real flavour of the Premiere as a powerful editor.  Thirdly, the lesson plans are well-paced and challenging.  The tasks are meaningful and their purpose is made clear at the beginning of each section.  Moreover, each section has a time component (90 minutes).  Finally, the author is realistic about Premiere, and empahsises her own use and experiences in corporate video production.<br />As an XP user, I would recommend this book as an excellent example of a good pedagogical style.  Maybe Mac people have different experiences. The missing CD contents are a problem and doesn't speak highly of quality control at some point in the process.<br />However, taken as a whole offering for Windows users, this is an outstanding book.	2003-05-29
US	37304756	R2PAS91D0M8GTO	1578200822	911701531	DVD Authoring and Production	Books	2	23	24	N	Y	Creatively limited. More catalogue than text	I bought this book in the expectation that I would learn about theories of DVD authoring focusing on techniques and user interface design. DVD authoring is of interest to groups as diverse as wedding videographers and instructional designers. There is a lot of technical detail in the book of the type found in product catalogues. The description of DVD layers, and so forth, is very informative. There is also a chapter listing available DVD software vendors. In fact, the book has a lot to say about DVD as a format and a technology, but rather less to say about DVD authoring. The chapter on navigation is barely above interesting. One section discusses 'advanced' navigation and introduces program control constructs (IF-THEN, FOR, etc.). Potentially very interesting but the examples of the uses of the constructs are limited to one or two lines of code; and one never gets to understand the 'features in action' in a project.<br />The title of the book is misleading. Production issues are addressed but very little of interest is available on authoring. If you need to learn about authoring in depth, look elsewhere.	2003-05-20
US	37304756	R2KTAT67T6QG76	1590590449	811133838	User Interfaces in VB .NET: Windows Forms and Custom Controls	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Approach with caution	This book is about the details of form building. It is not about the details of backending a form to a database or website.  It has a very specific remit and if you are not an experienced VB.Net programmer you could be badly caught out here. This is not a book to cut your UI building teeth on.  There are introductory texts to do that.  It is also not a UI design book. So don't expect lashings of advice on usability theory, design and test. They are just not here.<br />The focus on the book is on form controls creation and the various arcana in .Net that support them.  Many interesting and useful topics are raised in the book (there is an overlap between some of these and the coverage in other books, e.g. MDi and GDI+). However, the extent to which they will generalise for the 'average' programmer is another question.  I am not convinced that the book has sufficent novel content over an above other more general texts of the market.<br />Unless you specifically need detail about form controls, form splitters, personalised system trays etc, this book may be overkill. A good deal of topics in the book is covered in Deitel and Deitel (and more besides),and Balena.  So if you are learning VB.Net be careful in your choice.	2003-04-08
US	37304756	R3N4FV9TCXSPVR	1583225900	996674017	Power and Terror: Post-9/11 Talks and Interviews	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A window on the world outside conformism	I received this book from a friend of mine in the US. It is a thoughtful critical collection of interviews and public lecture snippets that conveys again the great challenges that good men face when they confront hypocrisy. Chomsky is the quintessential Aristotelian moralist. All behaviour, all choices have moral implications.<br />In this collection, put together for the eponymous documentary, he presents an analysis, sometimes light admittedly, of the extraordinary moral dualism of the West, in particular the US. The division of good from bad is performed by acts of simple econonomic expediency. Foreign policy is no more than translocated domestic economic policies.<br />This is a bruising book for those clinging to naive assumptions about the civilising influences of Western democracy. The troubling question is: how can things be made different? As an aside after I finished this book, I bought Derrick Bell's testament to the importance of living an examined life. That certainly answers the question above.	2003-04-06
US	37304756	RD66FOV0EC80I	0631168249	362058461	Autism: Explaining the Enigma	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Great primary source for research purposes	This is a book for researchers primarily. It introduces Frith's theory of weak central coherence as an underlying mechanism in autism. The theory runs (in a nutshell) that autistic individuals do not exhibit context appropriate responses to situation, events, etc. Relevance theory (cf. Sperber & Wilson) oils the wheels of Frith's theory.<br />The book opens with a long exegesis on a historical case and performs more than a bit of post mortem diagnosis. Such rational reconstructions of the past can be either very rivetting or tiresome. I wasn't convinced that the story avoided the latter pitfall. More enjoyable if shortened.<br />The rest of the book concentrates on theories of autism and their testability. The tussle between theory of mind (cf. Baron-Cohen's book: Mindblindness) is discussed and gives a brief foretaste of disputes that dominated the nineties'. However, the difficulty that central coherence itself faces is how to shape it into a coherent scientific theory? Frith doesn't entirely skirt this issue and there is much to be gained from simply reflecting on her approach to theory development.<br />Be warned that lighting up the research stage is a major focus of the work, and this will limit it's appeal. My final comment is not to buy this edition of the book, but to wait for the June 2003 edition. It can only be better.	2003-04-04
US	37304756	R6RXYIXQ567NT	1572305347	82202775	Asperger Syndrome, First Edition	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Excellent source of material for researchers	The collection of papers in this volume are really top class. All the academic authors (there are a few snippets from parents) are very well published.  The erudition shows in the breadth and depth of coverage. In such a rapidly hanginf field this  is as near as you can come to frozen slice of current thinking. Unlike many anthologies, wherein authors expound on a particular niche obsession, the bulk of articles here offer broad overviews of work. The diagnosis and symptomatology debate is well presented in a series of papers opening the book. Leaving aside the technical academic ares, most paretns will find teh sections on langauge and interventions informative but downheartening. What come across is that adoelscents AS are so heterogenous as a group that even assessing theor conversational deficits is several dozen research projects in itself.  The one area of the book that I personally was a little weak on recommendations related to interventions. The emphasis here was on methodological concerns and in fact often meta-methodological concerns. It is eqaully clear that many researchers regard the possibility of remission of AS has highly improbable - to be polite about it. Be that as it may, I reflected to myself a number of times during the course of reading the book (and being part of team looking into interventions), that if a fraction of the effort expended was applied to intervention research would be make better strides?  It's a moot point, but if we lose hope we better close down science.	2003-04-03
US	37304756	R3EWV0QJKU3C4D	1572305312	766716792	A Parent's Guide to Asperger Syndrome and High-Functioning Autism: How to Meet the Challenges and Help Your Child Thrive	Books	5	40	45	N	N	An intelligent thorough review of many options	There is a research thrust to this book (unsurprising given Ozonoff's research contributuons) that puts it a few notches above others in the market. Unquestionably this, plus a very fluent writing style, puts the book in a different class.<br /><br />Unlike specific intervention texts, it does not lay out particular lesson plans but reviews methodological principles and best practices.  As one would expect from the authors, the book is superb on descriptions of Autistic Disorders and prognosis. It has less advice on specific intervention strategies than one might like, but it does offer reviews of approaches. For interventions, I would recommend looking at Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents.<br /><br />So what does this book offer over the many others on the same bookshelf? Well it's horses for courses. It's avery balanaced book and certainly it doesn't understate the difficulties. I think that professionals and researchers will get a more out of it than others. However, there just isn't a whole pile written on AS and adolescence. Hence parents with a research interest will also gain a lot. Ultimately it is a slightly more 'high brow' book than notional equivalents. I have certainly found myself going back to it rather than the others over the past few months.	2003-03-30
US	37304756	R2VVABKTLJ4327	059600396X	19745981	ActionScript for Flash MX: The Definitive Guide, Second Edition	Books	5	31	33	N	Y	An obvious purchase	This book is primarily an obvious purchase because of the extremely cretinous policy driving Macromedia's manual publications. Much of what is in this book belongs in Macromedia documentation.<br />Like all reference texts (really dictonaries for language learners) this book is not for beginners. Unless you have some experience with program design, you are unlikely to learn how to assemble even a reasonable suite of code from the text.  That's not a criticsm of the text - it just isn't written for that market.<br />Almost every language construct gets a piece of exemplar code to illustrate calls and side effects. Even the OO side of things, such as it is in Actionscript, gets played out.<br />This is a fine book and the sheer labour involved in fiddling with every function is a credit to the author's resilience.<br />If you are actually programming in Actionscript rather than merely mooning over the nice Flash UI, then this book will be very useful.	2003-03-19
US	37304756	R2FT4B2NXO58LC	1843107171	645228185	Relationship Development Intervention with Children, Adolescents and Adults	Books	2	50	74	N	Y	Esoteric tone overwhelms the practical suggestions	My overall impression of this book is that is contrived and forced in places.  The book is structured around a layered model of progress; essentially progressing the student from the lowest level of competence on through higher levels. One might presume that the authors were stuck for a teaching metaphor and grabbed the apprentice-expert metaphor as scaffolding on which to hang the lessons.  The book is replete with various lesson plans and tactics for enagaging the AS person's interest. To be fair, a reasonable amount of what is here is worthwhile reading and reflecting on - once you filter out the esotericism of much of the language.<br /><br />However, the book seems to stumble as it tries to fill its 400 odd pages with 'advanced' lesson plans. Some of the section titles made me wonder was this a case of Asperger Syndrome meets Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance. The AS subject moves through Novice, Apprentice, Challenger, Voyager and Partner levels as just one example.  There are sublevels within each of these.  Finding one's unique idenitity and place in the environment etc, are major objectives.<br /><br />The tenor of a lot of this, for me at least, verged on almost cultish twaddle.  I prefer a reasonable scientific tenor to any behavioural modification programme.  However, others may find the book's approach illuminating and helpful.<br /><br />The book emphasises coaching and that the real business of interventions is coaching. My problem with this is that it doesn't tie coaching into any particular theory - though if you take one of the authors' RDI courses presumably the theory will be revealed. There is a growing emphasis on putting intervention programmes on some sort of scientific footing, and it behooves the authors of such programmes to produce the goods on the worth of their offerings. I would recommend looking at Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents for a different approach.<br /><br />The latter sections of the book, in my opinion, presume a lot of the AS subject.  In particular the use of others to faciliate interaction, learn about emotions and generally mediate social interactions is just not a an easy thing to acomplish with an AS subject. The 'partner' that turns up today may not be there tomorrow. So how do you coach an AS teenager to fall back on there own resources?<br /><br />The authors state that the book is suitable for use by parents, adolescents and adults, teachers and therapists (not many left out there). Personally I found this to be the most questionable claim of the whole book. How on Earth can it be a manual satisfying the requirements of such different audiences. It is verging on cyncical to suggest it has so much to offer to so many.<br /><br />In conclusion, there are aspects of the book that are useful and other aspects that I found incongrous, if not downright peculiar. If I had a larger budget, I would definitely prefer Kathleen Quill's book, Do-Watch-Listen-Say even though it is not explicitly aimed at adolescents, and couple it with one of the Boystown  Teaching Basic Social Skills to Youth as a more convincing pair.  It is a personal choice, and different people may have different requirements.lot of the AS subject.  In particular the use of others to faciliate interaction, learn about emotions and generally mediate social interactions is just not a an easy thing to acomplish with an AS subject. The 'partner' that turns up today may not be there tomorrow. So how do you coach an AS teenager to fall back on there own resources?     The authors state that the book is suitable for use by parents, adolescents and adults, teachers and therapists (not many left out there). Personally I found this to be the most questionable claim of the whole book. How on Earth can it be a manual satisfying the requirements of such different audiences. It is verging on cyncical to suggest it has so much to offer to so many.    In conclusion, there are aspects of the book that are useful and other aspects that I found incongrous, if not downright peculiar. If I had a larger budget, I would definitely prefer Kathleen Quill's book, Do-Watch-Listen-Say even though it is not explicitly aimed at adolescents, and couple it with one of the Boystown  Teaching Basic Social Skills to Youth as a more convincing pair.  It is a personal choice, and different people may have different requirements.	2003-03-16
US	37304756	R2BYV04XUMHKIJ	1889322296	334871573	Treating Youth With Dsm-IV Disorders: The Role of Social Skill Instruction	Books	3	14	16	N	Y	Disappointing in form and content	I was very disappointed with this book, especially since Teaching Basic Social Skills to Youth is an excellent companion volume.  This book is quite lightweight by comparison.<br /><br />Most of the DSM-IV disorders are covered.  The diagnostic criteria for each disorder are listed on a one half of a page while the skills that need to be taught are listed opposite.  Many of the skills are very general, e.g. anger management.  To be fair specific skills are also suggested. A framework within which to situate the teaching is sketched at the end of the book.<br /><br />The book is trying to cover a vast amount of ground, and in my opinion, the framework that is there isn't developed enough to ground some of the recommendations.  There is a sense of 'trust us, these are the skills for disorder X'.<br /><br />Peculiarly the book completely ignores autism, Asperger and PDD. No social skills programmes are suggested for these groups. They aren't even listed among the DSM-IV disorders covered in the book.  Given the volume of resources devoted to autism, this is a most bizarre omission. I would recommend filling the gap here with Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents.<br /><br />Those reservations aside, many who are actively working with difficult youth will find something of value here. How you value the book depends ultimately on your requirements.	2003-03-07
US	37304756	R10B48QM1F54V8	1890774154	538888031	Murach's Beginning Visual Basic .NET	Books	3	11	16	N	Y	Good but with less content than the page size suggests	This is a good book for learning aspects of VB.NET but it is not in the same class pedagogically as several others (particularly Schneider and Burrows). The strengths of the book are that the environment is explained fairly exhaustively and every second page has a piece of code illustrating something or other. The downside of the book is that there really isn't enough by way of projects and exercises for the average CS student.<br />My main concern is that you could read this book, play around with the code (which has to be downloaded - no CD) and delude yourself into thinking you had now learnt VB. There just isn't enough in the book for my money to recommend it as a good comprehensive student text. Other books give more bang for your money.<br />For its price, one could expect colour screen shots and colour coding, but that isn't there. In addition the layout as you move through the book is irritating (my opinion). For instance, a page introducing a construct lays out its stall in text (leaving on average the bottom third blank). The opposite page then has the chunk of code (often you need to look up the downloaded files to get the full context)in a box, underneath which is a bullet point synopsis of the opposite page. Too repetitive and formulaic for my liking.<br />If you want a very gentle introduction to VB then this may suit you well. However, if you want a sound foundation in programming then there are other books to consider. There is only so much simplification you can bring to any discipline, and avoid cutting out its heart.	2003-03-04
US	37304756	R3R0OEJONIVYIJ	047135614X	845570931	Designing Web-Based Training: How to Teach Anyone Anything Anywhere Anytime	Books	3	29	36	N	Y	Long on tips. Weak on theory.	This book contains a collection of web design tips which are in the main useful but not earth shattering.  Where the book fell down, for me at least, was in the area of theory. It is weak here, and that can be a major problem if you want to conduct a scientific evaluation of the work using the umpteen heuristics suggested by the author.  I doubt that there is enough information in the text to adequately help one frame an evaluation of a course, let alone put one together.<br />The book really has very little to say on instructional design methodologies.  The reader is told to bear X, Y and Z in mind and then thrown a few sample scenarios (with screen shots). In many ways this is the tenor of the whole book: a vast and never ending list of do's and don'ts and qualifications to those do's and don'ts.  I have to demure from the consensus among the other reviewers and adopt a minority position because quite frankly compared to other eleraning books, I found this one almost unreadable. The book is fullof particularities that are never adequately situated within a theoretical framework. It just seems like bad science to base so many recommendations on induction.<br />To be fair, it's good stuff in places, and frequently relevant, but can you retain it?  Who wants to read a several hundred page long list of tips?<br />In terms of theory, balance and scientific worth a far better book, for my money, is by Alessi and Trollip.	2003-02-27
US	37304756	R7FXT608DXWP7	0735712743	958211663	eLearning with Dreamweaver MX: Building Online Learning Applications	Books	2	17	19	N	Y	Disappointing. A few sparks of light.	I had expected great things of this book when I settled down to reading it. In particular I expected to hand it to one of my postgrads and say 'Now, get on with it'.  Unfortunately, I'll have to pass him a few more supplementary texts before I can say that. The book has a very broad coverage, as indicated by the table of contents, but the actual content only intermittently rises to the challenge of quality.  For a start, there is a lack of print space balance between the various sections. For instance, the sections on Flash are very short - too short and really of very little value.  In a elearning book of 556 odd pages approximately 14 are devoted to Flash.<br />The sections on Dreamweaver are reasonable and will get most users started. The chaper on Cascading Style Sheets was good but long winded and I have read better in Frontpage texts.  The section (and it barely merits the name) on cookies was deplorably brief and vague. Interestingly Javascript is also introduced here (here is a piece of Javascript that does X) which will be about as helpful to the average reader as inserting a piece of Chinese.<br />The section on Coursebuilder, which I haven't used, I found useful but vague.  I would not be confident that I could assemble a course based solely on what's in the book. Again there was a digression on how Coursebuilder works with 3.0 and 4.0+ browsers.  What year was this wriitten in I asked myself?  The main server options (ASP, JSP, Cold Fusion, etc.) are coverd in six pages, which allowing for the big window graphics is actually three pages of text, maximum. There is no mention of ASP.NET.<br />The chapters on user and site tracking really could do with large technical dollops of content as much of what is there is vague, wishy-washy, and you'll say to yourself after reading this far I expected better.  You'll kick yourself when you read that the tracking system uses proprietary software that you can download on a demo basis. Bizarrely one the last chapters deals with commands and macro recording - why isn't this a very early chapter (not that it would make a huge difference).<br /><br />There are a few useful tips and points in the book.  The author is right to focus attention on the value of reusable software components.  The sections on interfaces bring a few HCI principles together. However, overall I found the book a very great disappointment. It would clearly benefit from much more technical editing as it seems to tire and run out of steam in many places.  There are neither downloadable files nor a CD accompanying this book which strongly suggests a vacuum somewhere.<br />Being candid, this book was not a worthwhile purchase by  me and I regret buying it as firstly I had to read it, and secondly it will force me to read yet another elearning book for evaluation.s deals with commands and macro recording - why isn't this a very early chapter (not that it would make a huge difference).<BR> <BR>There are a few useful tips and points in the book.  The author is right to focus attention on the value of reusable software components.  The sections on interfaces bring a few HCI principles together. However, overall I found the book a very great disappointment. It would clearly benefit from much more technical editing as it seems to tire and run out of steam in many places.  There are neither downloadable files nor a CD accompanying this book which strongly suggests a vacuum somewhere.<br />Being candid, this book was not a worthwhile purchase by  me and I regret buying it as firstly I had to read it, and secondly it will force me to read yet another elearning book for evaluation.	2003-02-18
US	37304756	RUOMEKBLPN2M7	0806912472	404247384	Super IQ Tests	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Very enjoyable but a little formulaic	This is a very enjoyable little book. I have used some of the examples (involving pattern matching) in teaching students the bones of computer based reasoning.  The questions are mostly good to challenging in quality. However as you plough through the tests, a pattern begins to emerge (somewhat like learning to unravel cryptogram based crosswords) and I suspect this helps improve performance.<br />The one quibble I have is that the wording of questions is not always clear - perhaps one to two in every fifteeen questions. Just to check this for myself I asked my wife, who is the sharpest blade in our household, to look at a few that I found unclear. She agreed (surprisingly ;-).  It is worthwhile digging out the GRE general test for comparison on this point, and you'll readily grasp the importance of clarity in question wording.  That being said, it is a worthwhile book and I derived a good deal of satisfaction from it.	2003-02-17
US	37304756	RJVO70MLCMD7K	1565927559	222997385	Adolescent Drug & Alcohol Abuse: How to Spot It, Stop It, and Get Help for Your Family (Patient Centered Guides)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A realistic appraisal of the slope to climb	This book is replete with good quality advice and information, The short personal anecdotes compliment the central narrative convincingly, rather than as mere literary frills. It deals with the problem from both the drug user's perspective and importantly also from that of the family.  Often overlooked in the whole troubling saga is the need for the family to continue functioning even without the presence of the drug abuser.  The book is strong in this area and many parents will nod their heads in agreement with its points. All in all a very useful guide.	2003-02-17
US	37304756	R1QPOTAQAIGIEV	1904344089	475168627	Flash.NET - Dynamic Content for Designers with Flash Remoting MX and ASP.NET	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Very thorough but not for beginners	This book is divided between accounts of ASP.NET and databases, and their integration with Flash movies.  First of all, this is not a book for beginners. You need a reasonable amount of IT under your belt to take advantage of the content. In short you need to know something about programming to pick up the threads in the text.<br />I found the examples interesting and the last two case studies are quite well elaborated. I found PenPad particularly interesting.  The code is downloadable from the authors' website and that makes up forthe lack of a CD (just about).<br />Throughout the book the authors use C# as the server scripting lanaguage which surprised me.  You won't learn C# from thisbook and I suspect that without some background reading, the scripts will seem meaningless.<br />The database examples (using pubs2) are fairly standard, but again there is the unwritten assumption that you know something about these artefacts anyway.  If you don't have a few undergrad CS course under your belt, the two chapters on databases will lose your interest very quickly.  The flash elemetns are really introduced to illustrate principles (which I was happy with) rather than develop red hot applications.<br />Overall, I was pleased with the book. It fills a gap between the traditional programmer and the web designer. The examples are good and reasonably developed.<br />If I have any reservations, it is that the authors rarely take the time to develop a design before presenting code snippets.  Personally I dislike this approach intensely. I find many students unable to decouple their designs from pieces of code and it encourages bad software engineering practices.  there is no excuse in a data processing textbook for not throwing up half a dozen flow charts to give a flavour of the control logic.  That point being made, I would certainly recommend this book to any reasonably experienced programmer, but not to a beginner.	2003-02-10
US	37304756	RLA4A1MJKU9U2	0967251494	684543019	Asperger Syndrome and Adolescence: Practical Solutions for School Success	Books	4	87	88	N	N	Good scheduling advice but little on pragmatics	There is a wealth of advice in this book which all parents and teachers should find helpful.  Plenty of checklists are offered and numerous cameo case histories are presented. The references are good but perhaps a bit limited (may be of importance only to researchers - no mention of central coherence deficit for instance).  The main point of the book is the get schools to recognise and deal with stress build up in AS pupils before it boils over. Some of this will be familiar from Myles' other book on tantrum management.<br /><br />The advice for high school transition is very practical. Make sure he knows the schedule, pin the timetable everywhere, fix routine reminders inside textbook covers, make sure he knows which teacher tolerates which behaviour, etc.  It is all good sensible advice, though I wonder how deliverable it is in the ordinary school setting?<br /><br />The authors touch on 'circle of friends', travelcards and a host of other supports, but ultimately pin their support hopes on resource teachers and an enlightened school policy.  Unfortunately, this is where I begin to part company with the book.  Few schools could make the quantum shifts expected, and the authors could have made much more of their advice if they had identified compromise strategies.  Teachers are human, not superhuman. Also in my limited experience, parents of AS teenagers often have unrealistic expectations of their offspring's academic performance and that tends to obscure their grasp of daily school realities.  The classic example here is the emphasis on the 'gifted' child who must attend a 'gifted' school irrespective of the impact that has on the school and child.  The authors tend to cite gifted children examples a lot in their case studies. I don't think this is helpful.<br /><br />Perhaps unconsciously the book also portrays the AS teenager as very much a ship in the night steering a lonely course from class to class, from teacher to teacher, etc. How to help out here? Again, while friendship strategies are touched upon, no elabaorated plan is developed.  A weakness to my mind.<br /><br />The book presents the AS teenager as very much a patient to be treated by the environment.  I don't want to appear overly critical of the book.  It is good that adolescent AS are being addressed, however, for the life of me I could not grasp why there is no section on teenage communication pragmatics - these are extensively treated in another book Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents. The authors simply skate by the whole problematic of communication skills. It seems that as long as your 'gifted' child is doing well academically and no one is hitting him, then we should be pleased.  This struck me as a very lobsided developmental philosophy.  Interestingly the book points out in footnote in the beginning that it will ignore sexuality and relationship issues.  Ignore these? In a book dealing AS adolescents?<br /><br />Overall this is a good book for advising on schedule construction and maintenance of the daily school routine. It has limitations and depending on your needs they may be significant or otherwise.rategies are touched upon, no elabaorated plan is developed.  A weakness to my mind.    The book presents the AS teenager as very much a patient to be treated by the environment.  I don't want to appear overly critical of the book.  It is good that adolescent AS are being addressed, however, for the life of me I could not grasp why there is no section on teenage communication pragmatics - these are extensively treated in another book Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents. The authors simply skate by the whole problematic of communication skills. It seems that as long as your 'gifted' child is doing well academically and no one is hitting him, then we should be pleased.  This struck me as a very lobsided developmental philosophy.  Interestingly the book points out in footnote in the beginning that it will ignore sexuality and relationship issues.  Ignore these? In a book dealing AS adolescents?    Overall this is a good book for advising on schedule construction and maintenance of the daily school routine. It has limitations and depending on your needs they may be significant or otherwise.	2003-02-05
US	37304756	R21Z4CXW1KFM7F	185302967X	107587800	Incorporating Social Goals in the Classroom: A Guide for Teachers and Parents of Children with High-Functioning Autism and Asperger Syndrome	Books	5	35	37	N	Y	A great pleasure to read for practical advice	While not as weighty as some other social skill oriented books, Moyes' book is probably more accessible to the average parent and teacher. It is a relatively short book and easily read.  The references are good and there is no scent of snake oil from the overall product.<br /><br />While notionally the book is about framing individualised education plans (IEPs), the bulk of the book is taken up with explanations of Asperger syndrome, its manifestations, assessment and various interventions.  Practically speaking, the sections on assessment will probably be of more interest to teachers than parents.<br /><br />There is a long chapter covering interventions and it is reasonably comprehensive.  The author has clearly tried to position the book between the professional literature on interventions and the barely above anecdotal. And it works surprising well. Each of the inteventions is reviewed sparingly but fairly. At all times the emphasis is on listing advantages and disadvantages.  The chapter on IEPs covers all the relevant requirements but isn't slow to point out the problems to be encountered. Given the intensive requirements of interventions, reading Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents will flesh out the issues for professionals and parents.<br /><br />All in all I found this a very remarkable book, and worth at least twice its weight in gold.	2003-02-04
US	37304756	RTWYIIPEU28GX	096725146X	557828958	Making Visual Supports Work in the Home and Community: Strategies for Individuals with Autism and Asperger Syndrome	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Good but limited in scope	This is a small (33 page) ring bound book. It briefly touches on a number of circumstances (common one for children)that might benefit from visual communication offerings. The latter can be diagrams, drawings, or pictures that help the child manage their daily schedule.  The idea is that the visual 'artwork' represents the rules for a particular set of circumstances.  A wide variety of formats are mentioned and there are abundant pictures which may stir and inspire parents.  For most readers that will be enough to justify purchasing the book.<br />My main reservations about the book are that the outlined methodology is so broad as to make it impossible to separate effective from less effective representational modes.  The test-retest reliability question, hanging over all these type of intervention programmes, is never addressed. For instance the authors never explore the results of the use of the Picture Exchange Communication System. On a related point, the authors don't connect their strategies with general speech and language therapy approaches.  These are moot points but ones that have to be acknowledged as autism intervention programmes try to formalise their methodologies.	2003-01-31
US	37304756	R2HEZ5Z938JLWJ	0805044515	335587835	Making Documentary Films and Reality Videos: A Practical Guide to Planning, Filming, and Editing Documentaries of Real Events	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Very practical and to the point	I came upon this book after making 23 drama videos for autistic teenagers.  Recently we looked at producing a day-in-the-life type documentary with cutaways of professionals commenting on the activities. I honestly found this book to be a mine of information. Almost any question I found myself raising was addressed in some form in this book. Consequently structuring the doucmentary in terms of narrative, visual arrangement, verisimilitude, camera and sound has become clearer.<br />I would have liked the chapters on the Documentary Idea and Writing the Documentary to be longer.  Personally, I would have benefited more from extending the discussions here. Also the author tends to drive the book along at a fiercely anecdotal rate which is great if you can imagine yourself in the author's shoes, but may not suit everyone's style.<br />Overall I found this to be a most useful manual and certainly find myself returning to it for advice.  What better recommendation can I offer?	2003-01-31
US	37304756	R18ACAQT5PT0WY	0309072697	810626886	Educating Children with Autism	Books	5	37	37	N	Y	A profound and arresting analysis of interventions	My contact with autistic children and teenagers is primarily through research into social skills teaching.  I have a assembled a small library of key texts and until I read this one, I found my library incomplete in one area - a review of intervention programmes.  This book is simply superb is its coverage of the various principles that inform current interventions, its analysis of the outcomes of several commonly cited progrmmes, and the scope for future work.<br /><br />However, this book is not  'selling' any particular intervention and that may dismay some parents particularly.  It is geared more towards informing professionals in the field about options, choices and consequences associated with interventions. And boy is it thorough!<br /><br />There is a huge amount to be gained from this book.  I found reading it to be very stimulating but pleasurably slow, since every page has thought provoking observations.<br /><br />I would certainly recommend that anyone pursuing interventions not pass over this book, be they parent, teacher or health professional.  I genuinely cannot see this book disappointing an interested party. Parents of children with Asperger Syndrome may feel a little let down however, given the lack of attention their special requirements.  Other books, such as Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents, may be of help to them.	2003-01-30
US	37304756	R223UXYX6EBY09	0309070368	279102935	How People Learn: Brain, Mind, Experience, and School: Expanded Edition	Books	5	15	21	N	Y	Very much an agenda setting book	As someone reading this outside the US, I found the agenda in the book quite interesting. Unsurprisingly about one third of the text is taking up with issues in mathematics and science teaching - a source of major concern in the industrialised West. Lots of advice on principles and techniques (more limited) are offered to the reader. The book's style is that of a report. Topics are numbered and flagged in bold print for your attention. The subsequent text expands on the issues at hand.  A valuable component of the book is the number of case studies it references, and one presumes these have been carefully selected. Overall as a review of 'learning sciecne' I found this a most impressive work.  My major quibble with it is that the chapter of Brain and Mind sticks out like a sore thumb, and personally I didn't take it to bring anything to the debate in the rest of the book.	2003-01-30
US	37304756	R3JE4MF2LP4W33	0262134187	523344159	Emotional Intelligence: Science and Myth	Books	5	56	56	N	Y	Superb scholarship in a contentious area	This is a superbly scholarly work reviewing existing theories of emotional intelligence (and in passing social intelligence).  The authors have carefully combed through various researchers' views on EI, often changing incidentally. They are quite critical of the popular uptake that followed Goleman's much cited work on EI.  However, this is not a tarted up version of Golemans's work for a more high brow audience.  Rather it is a sustained inquiry into the criteriology of EI.  In other words are their scientific criteria separating EI from other human competencies and skills?<br />In many ways the meat of the book is taken up with the 'myth' aspect of EI rather than the alleged science.  The book might have been better titled 'Emotional Intelligence: Fact or fiction?' And the authors are not shy to answer.<br />While the book is a review of relatively current research (some chapters appear not to reference almost anything after 1995), the authors main target is the lack of sustainable pyschometric tests.  Their  argument is that when one examines the variety of 'measures' of EI, one finds a variety of mismatched and often contradictory criteria which sometimes confute 'ordinary' measures of IQ with those of EIQ.  Where IQ stops and EIQ begins is very unclear. A large number of test instruments are examined in this book and almost without exception found deficient.<br />The book concludes with a negative appraisal of EI as a distinct capacity that can be accurately measured by psychometric tests. Moreover, the authors are equally pessimistic about the validity of social intelligence as a distinct phenomenon. Perhaps gratutiously insulting to the the EI community are their later points to the effect that EI might be vacuous but we should still let the research run in the hope that something useful might arise in the future.  It may be rubbish but sure let them at it anyway; what harm are they doing?<br />Overall I found the book provocative and one sided. The authors exhibit a form of analysis based on saying what EI is not, or could not be, without subjecting their own position (such as can be discerned) to sustained analysis. That is acceptable, but it is less informative.  Secondly, lurking in the background is a strong IQ position, namely that all skills are ultimately manifestations of standrd IQ capacities.  By this token the bright should be very socially skilled and the less bright not, but we know that society doesn't divide neatly on that point. Thidly, there is much in early child development about prosocial development that isn't covered in this book. Combining this with the absence of any discussion of conversational pragmatics, and a lacuna is exposed. To be fair however, the authors are taking on the EI community in terms of itself, hence they don't feel obliged to make arguments for them (presumably). However, it was something I noted.  A final small point is that a few references in the text don't appear in the bibliography (e.g. Archer 1988 doesn't appear) which suggests the proof reading could have been more thorough.xhibit a form of analysis based on saying what EI is not, or could not be, without subjecting their own position (such as can be discerned) to sustained analysis. That is acceptable, but it is less informative.  Secondly, lurking in the background is a strong IQ position, namely that all skills are ultimately manifestations of standrd IQ capacities.   By this token the bright should be very socially skilled and the less bright not, but we know that society doesn't divide neatly on that point. Thidly, there is much in early child development about prosocial development that isn't covered in this book. Combining this with the absence of any discussion of conversational pragmatics, and a lacuna is exposed. To be fair however, the authors are taking on the EI community in terms of itself, hence they don't feel obliged to make arguments for them (presumably). However, it was something I noted.  A final small point is that a few references in the text don't appear in the bibliography (e.g. Archer 1988 doesn't appear) which suggests the proof reading could have been more thorough.	2003-01-29
US	37304756	R1YVHO7GZ7ESQL	0735711836	155953723	Object-Oriented Programming with ActionScript	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	A useful book moving in the right direction	This is a useful book for pedagogical purposes. The authors write in a lucid style and generally the book is evenly balanced.  I am critical of the lack of a CD though the files are downloadable from their site.  While the authors talk about OO in Flash and work through examples of restricted OO applications, they also admit that Flash's Actionscript is really not an OO language. Hence while OO thinking in Flash may help some developers organise their code more effectively, the language is not sufficiently enriched (viz. the current programming semantics of Flash) to support the usual range of OO constructs found in Java, C++ or C#.  The authors explicitly flag inheritance as, at the least, difficult to achieve in Flash and recommend its avoidance.  Hence my comment that Flash is really not ready for OO yet - but as this book shows, it could get there.<br />Programmers especially those from a Computer Science background, will find this book very useful as it gets to terms with programming in Flash (Actionscript) more directly than many others.  For instance a reasonable though limited overview of fairly common data structures coded in Actionscript is presented, and that is a very welcome development. The section dealing with components introduces a layer of software engineering thinking that many books appear to avoid (or are ignorant of).  However, it also clear that component development in Flash has a way to go yet, and I got a strong sense from the book that the state of Actionscript development is not all it should be.<br />Despite its many fine points and admirable style, there are a few weaknesses.  Firstly the whole area of combiming Actionscript with other APIs is largely ignored. When will someone plug this gap?  Please email me if someone already has, as I have a number of postgraduates who would benefit. Secondly the section on XML and databases access through Flash Remoting is very potted and should have been spread over several additional chapters.<br />I found this book to be very useful and certainly moving in the right direction from a programmer's perspective.  In many ways however, and with no disrespect to the authors, it also struck me as a draft for a much better book that could emerge in few months time.  Hopefully the authors will plug that gap sooner rather than later.br />I found this book to be very useful and certainly moving in the right direction from a programmer's perspective.  In many ways however, and with no disrespect to the authors, it also struck me as a draft for a much better book that could emerge in few months time.  Hopefully the authors will plug that gap sooner rather than later.	2003-01-25
US	37304756	R3DGDQJTZYIN9	1893224740	411398373	When You Ride Alone You Ride with Bin Laden: What the Government Should Be Telling Us to Help Fight the War on Terrorism	Books	1	31	70	N	Y	Full of 'Off the top of my head' political analysis	This book almost completely lacks any reasoned political analysis.  It is completely pitched at the cartoon strip level of political comprehension. Don't worry  you'll be able to flick through it while eating a large burger without any indigestion.  Maher's main point is that a small number of vested interest elites dominate economic home and foreign policy. That isn't a revelation to any educated European, and it strains belief that contrary is the case in the US. Ever since C.Wright Mills' Power Elite in the sixties (which analysed the influences of the military industrial networks growing under Eisenhower) this point has been made and remade. Maher makes the point again but without the erudition or the data. He preaches on the need for change but invokes formulae that never rise above sloganising.<br />The other aspect of this book that really got on my goat was the relative absence of the 'rest of the world' in the various polemical pieces. While criticising the US for inwardness, he falls into the same trap by never presenting any reasoned external perspective on US policy.<br />Sure you can agree with some of what he trots out as relevant, but most of his material is close to puerile.  Much of it would passs for thoughts from a teenage pool hall where angst rules the night hours.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone genuinely interested in political analysis and commentary.  However, if you are interested in maintaining a superfical analysis of US policies this is probably the book for you.	2003-01-10
US	37304756	R26Z7D15WB4MQ5	0060915331	732260177	A History of the Jews	Books	4	11	14	N	N	More hagiography than history	My impression of this book (having received it as a present)is that few primary sources were consulted.  The biblical exegesis has a number of errors and the author seems at pains to diminish the political, cultural and social influences of the Egyptian and Babylonian capivities.  When dealing with the advent of the C.E., the author launches into a round of hurried judgements about alledged Greek anti-semitism. There is very little credible academic analysis or insight brought to bear here. ... At these points the book breaks down as history. ....<br />The period between the fall of the Temple and the Middle Ages is sparsely covered with various allusions to Jewish acadamies and figures flourishing in the Near East and European ports.  The rest of the history for the period recounts various ghetto lives and deprivations of liberties in an intersting but never well analysed fashion. A small selection of rabbinical court cases and responsa are fashioned as insights into Jewish preoccupations of the time.  To be fair to Johnson he does not shrink from describing the full range of discriminations (and murders) perpetrated against Jewish communities.<br />The rest of the book tends to recount history in the terms of the personages of primarily European Jews.  While this strategy is always entertaining, it is also a standard historian's trick when the leg work of social history seems especially daunting.  Simon Schama's Landscape and Memory is a successful example of the latter vis-a-vis the Jewish communities in Poland.<br />Overall I felt the book to be quite uneven.  The book is torn between presenting the community as homogenous in order to sustain its central thesis of the inherent moral and ethical superiority Jewish customs, practices and inter alia people, while at the same time acknowledging historial tensions between the various consistories and reform-minded congregations.  Of course acknowledgement of the latter serves to undermine the former. Hence the text's dilemma.<br />In a book of this nature, one would reasonably expect some insight into the linguistic components of the diaspora.  For instance, it is not abundantly clear from the text that Yiddish speaking communities would have had little to no knowledge of Hebrew (that was certainly the case with my grandfather and his family). Overall this may be a small quibble, but one expects a history to throw up just such quibbles for dissection.  The problem the professional historian faces is that by not raising such quibbles and anomalies, their histories may simply slide into propaganda. I fear that this book slid on more than one occasion.t's dilemma.<br />In a book of this nature, one would reasonably expect some insight into the linguistic components of the diaspora.  For instance, it is not abundantly clear from the text that Yiddish speaking communities would have had little to no knowledge of Hebrew (that was certainly the case with my grandfather and his family). Overall this may be a small quibble, but one expects a history to throw up just such quibbles for dissection.  The problem the professional historian faces is that by not raising such quibbles and anomalies, their histories may simply slide into propaganda. I fear that this book slid on more than one occasion.	2002-12-27
US	37304756	R3JOD5SBMYH3BK	0787951595	695174487	Multimedia-Based Instructional Design : Computer-Based Training, Web-Based Training, and Distance Learning	Books	1	38	43	N	Y	Doesn't seem contemporary	Overly generous interline spacing has made a large book out of what is a effectively a small book.  Much of the material in the book struck me as on the edge of redundant and out of touch with emerging developments. Many of the references are very dated (seventies and eighties material) and some are simply obscure.  The book just isn't convincingly up to date.<br />The emphasis on form filling will appeal to all those types who like to run software projects by form filling.  There is no creative thrust to this book and the complimentary technology angles are weak. The CD contained nothing that I hadn't been aware of in other modes or hadn't created with MS Office components. It is largely an irrelevancy.<br />For corporate types who want to roll out loads of flannel about elearning project management, this book may be a gem. For developers however, I would recommend Allessi and Trollip as a much superior text.  Personally speaking, this book was not a good value purchase by me.	2002-12-16
US	37304756	R24VRLUR12TB5P	1861007337	736534617	Beginning ASP.NET 1.0 with VB.NET	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Good but shows the weaknesses of committee authorship	First of all, a good number of my undergraduates like this book as it introduces the bare bones required to get something up and running quite quickly. The downside of the book, from my persusal of it, is that it is less even than it could be, or perhaps should be. In many chapters (especially the crucial early ones) examples are often introduced and developed before their key constructs are properly explained. This is simply confusing to naive readers and highly irritating. For instance, the earliest ASP.net script uses \\"asp:label\\" without explaining the syntax or semantics for a another few dozen pages.<br />Unfortunately this is a bit of trend throughout the book and at the very least makes it frustrating. However, once you allow for this, (and it's a big allowance to make) the book is very handy.<br />It has bundles of scripts that anyone involved in web work will find interesting and useful. You can quibble with some of these (the login scripting for example) contra other books such as Professional ASP.NET, but I suspect this is a byproduct of committee authorship.<br />The book is clearly aimed at the learner so don't expect Enterprise quality insights into server management. Given the huge range of architectures and technologies available to the developer, producing any 'true' learner book is a considerable challenge. If you need a book for coursework alone, then this will probably meet most of your needs. If you earn your living with the .NET and its companions, then you need some supplementary texts.	2002-12-15
US	37304756	R1OJXGYL19XBWY	1590590147	267434972	Object-Oriented Macromedia Flash MX	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The examples let the intention down badly	My first reaction to this book was to admire the intention behind it.  However, the graphicial content of the book (viz, example projects and screenshots) oscillate between being too primitive on the one hand, ann too narrowly scoped on the other.  If memory serves me there are probably no more than half-a-dozen flash screenshots throughout the body of the text. Really a bad oversight.<br />I don't quibble with the coding. The book is trying to shoehorn Actionscript into a paradigm for which it is still unprepared.  I do think that many more useful examples could have been developed.  The book could do with being rubbed up against some of the VB intro books (and Java) to help guide topic selection for the next edition - if there is one.  In particular, I like to see algorithms described in psuedo-code, before being nailed down into actual code.<br />There are some useful points made about parent-child inheritance and child-child inheritance, many of which resonate with experienced VB programmers.  One of the strengths of VB is its Multiple Document Interface support and the author could have stuck in something here to illuminate the contrast.<br />Even though Actionscript is an ECMA script compliant language, I can't think of any book that actually treats 'data structures' in actionscript - some of the games books do present good algorithmic work.  In an OO book, I had expected this lacuna to be addressed, but I'll await another edition.<br />I learnt some useful things from this book, but I still can't quite accept it as an OO book. Certainly, I doubt if one could get a purchase on a breath of design in OO through this book, but perhaps I am mistaken here.<br />My most serious reseervation about the text is that it doesn't give the reader enough exposure to foster respect for any particular design paradigm. For instance, a UML subset could have been introduced as programme design methodology. And this in many ways is the nub of my problem with the book. If the text is about programming then it should reference and use programming design standards. If it is about Visual Programme assembly (putting the movie togeher) then bring in the relevant aesthetic approach. You pays your money and takes your chance, I suppose, in the long run.text is about programming then it should reference and use programming design standards. If it is about Visual Programme assembly (putting the movie togeher) then bring in the relevant aesthetic approach. You pays your money and takes your chance, I suppose, in the long run.	2002-12-08
US	37304756	R1OMO5ZW8UD3XE	0764536613	298692320	Teach Yourself VISUALLY Macromedia Flash MX (Visual Read Less, Learn More)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Sumptious graphical layout but elementary content	This book is exquisitely illustrated. The top half of each page contains an graphical illustration to kill for, while the bottom half covers the Flash lesson. The colours and layout are very appealing and it is an enjoyable book to thumb through.<br />However, lest the artwork overpower your judgement, it is still an elementary book which largely follows the lesson layout that comes with Flash MX.  So if you feel comfortable with the in-built Flash MX lessons and tutorials, this book won't bring a whole lot more to the table. Not a coffee table book by any means, but 'power' users are likely to cast it aside quickly.	2002-12-06
US	37304756	R3TGEAHL5FXP7O	0735612846	805622602	Microsoft FrontPage Version 2002 Inside Out	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Best all round investment in Frontpage	In terms of topic range and coverage, quality of explanations and general layout, this book must be the best value available on Frontpage.  The coverage of database integration will get anyone, and I mean anyone, up and running with a database backed website. If you need more bells and whistles, there're laid out here.<br />Like all the Inside Out books, the text is worth buying just to have the ebook on CD available.  It is a great bonus having the ebook accessible in a browser while you're probing a particular implementation. If you need to know how to use Frontpage professionally, this is the book to purchase.  I have two other well known Frontpage books which I evaluated for academic courses, and this book towers over both.	2002-12-04
US	37304756	RWLGFGHMQ3DY	0916410668	906820562	Right-Brain Teasers: A Photo Quiz for the Mind's Eye (Brainwaves Books)	Books	1	9	12	N	Y	Little discernible purpose behind the selection	This volume contains a large selection of photographs of primarily Victorian artefacts. Readers are invited to discern the purpose of each oddity - hence the claim to 'right brain' strengthening.  I could not discern themes, trends or any guiding cognitive theory holding the assembly together.  What the reader gets is a mish-mash of images more suited to an antique store fetishist.  If poring over images of Victorian apple corers. toasters and other assorted early industrial artefacts, is your hobby, then this book is right up your alley. On the other hand, if you expected this book (which I bought on the assumption that it might have something interesting to say about right brain visualisation and cognition)to be of some intellectual value, you will be sadly disappointed. Ironically it is a book largely about rubbish; the rubbish of a bygone age.  Happily, this book, a testimonial to that age, I suspect will soon be numbered among its ranks.	2002-12-04
US	37304756	R34GPI4ETZ8BNZ	0735613753	594233685	Programming Microsoft Visual Basic .NET (Core Reference) (Developer Reference)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Essential for professional VB programmers	This is not a beginner's text by any means, a reasonable degree of proficiency in VB is pretty much indispensable. There is so much of relevance in the book to system programming that it beggars belief. Balena does a very thorough job on presenting class construction, overloading, inheritance and so forth. The presentation is clean and has lots of snippets. In contrast arrays, lists and collections are all covered in one chapter (chapter 9), which I found tight. The hashtable class gets a mere two pages of compact description for instance. This bears out my point that you need to know quite a bit in advance in order to get full measure from this book.<br />I found the chapter on object serialisation hard going. Serialisation refers to the process of writing objects to a memory buffer. Towards the end of the chapter a good account of XSD files is developed, and it is worth while staying with this chapter until you grasp this format (or formatter).<br />This is followed by chapters on regular expressions, threading and assemblies. No hostages taken. Chapter 15 covers reflection which I suspect is something few books on .net will tackle as seriously due to its very detailed low level spec. You can use the classes in the reflection namespace to probe other assemblies and 'retrieve' their properties. It is a very focused business.<br />After this chapter the book returns to the upper world of the regular programmer, and begins to produce topics similar to any other book covering the same development areas but still of very high quality(forms, ADO.NET, ASP,NET, etc.). The weakest chapter here seemed to me to be the GDI+ chapter. It appears a fact of life, but excellent system programmers are not overly enthusiastic graphics programmers. It is a pity that the overall excellence of the book didn't extend to this chapter. Before concluding the review I would point out that I read the first half of the book with much greater diligence than the second half.<br />If you already know VB, don't pass over this book. It will serve you well.dy know VB, don't pass over this book. It will serve you well.	2002-11-26
US	37304756	R2SR0STLLK0MZI	0521785588	439113261	Building Virtual Communities: Learning and Change in Cyberspace (Learning in Doing: Social, Cognitive and Computational Perspectives)	Books	4	20	23	N	Y	Interesting but to my mind very uneven	I found this to be a mildly interesting collection of papers but rather uneven in focus and range. Several papers tried to reach theoretical heights while others contented themselves by reporting on specific projects, e.g. Math Forum. The volume is quite 'a house divided' but there are cross currents.<br />The biggest problem with the book is that it has something for everyone.  Hence each chapter has some points of interest but nothing of great insight or profundity is elaborated. For instance the theorising on communities is to my mind absolutely primitive. No mention of Hobbes or Locke here. The whole question of the political dynamic of a community is simply not addressed, i.e. power structures. This is serious flaw.<br />The book tends to reflect technocratic stance on community building.  At all costs avoid value judgements and the moral dimension. Communities by numbers.<br />In fact, the communities described in various papers seem to really be fan clubs or hobby clubs which are using the internet to further their purposes. No big deal in many ways. Of course from the authors perspective that would be too simple a reading of the actual value of 'virtual comunities'.  The danger is that some readers may simply perceive many of the efforts to elaborate on the digital components of a 'community' as mere psuedo-intellectual twaddle.  For example no one speaks of a 'telephonic community' emerging post Alexander Bell. People were more grounded in those days it seems.<br />There is much emphasis on Computer Mediated Communication (CMC) throughout the book as a significant leap into a new state of togetherness. Much of this is hard to argue with if it was merely stating the obvious, i.e. kids talking about games in chat rooms, parents discussing their kids math progress, etc. However, one can't but feel that the thrust of the book in towards overkill. The internet is in many of these instances is simply a souped up penpal system.<br />It is easy to be critical of a book like this and see it akin to any other book telling us how much sand is in the Sahara. However, the authors clearly believe that the internet can inspire a new communal modality.<br />I am not sure I would share their enthusiasm having run several lists and online 'club's over the years.  What strikes me as glaringly absent, is an analysis of how one motivates users to remain within a group and contribute.  How do you motivate people? Crack that and the world will change. A recent issue of the Communications of the ACM published interesting research from Microsoft showing just how hard it is to get people to come forward socially on the net.<br />I wouldn't recommend passing over this book. It is worth skimming out of interest just to keep yourself abreast of emergent themes but I would put in the second rank and in preference first buy a good elearning book (by Alessi for instance).a book like this and see it akin to any other book telling us how much sand is in the Sahara. However, the authors clearly believe that the internet can inspire a new communal modality.<br />I am not sure I would share their enthusiasm having run several lists and online 'club's over the years.  What strikes me as glaringly absent, is an analysis of how one motivates users to remain within a group and contribute.  How do you motivate people? Crack that and the world will change. A recent issue of the Communications of the ACM published interesting research from Microsoft showing just how hard it is to get people to come forward socially on the net.<br />I wouldn't recommend passing over this book. It is worth skimming out of interest just to keep yourself abreast of emergent themes but I would put in the second rank and in preference first buy a good elearning book (by Alessi for instance).	2002-11-24
US	37304756	R25KC6YOK9PWCP	1885477821	677819831	Navigating the Social World: A Curriculum for Individuals with Asperger's Syndrome, High Functioning Autism and Related Disorders	Books	4	87	94	N	Y	Good if your child is able and not MR	I do some work experimenting with pragmatics teaching for autistic adolescents. This book is definitely a 'good' book in this regard.  Importantly it is written by a parent for other parents.  I have no doubt but that it has something for everyone, but I am less sure whether it has as much for parents with genuinely autistic as opposed to high functioning autistic children.  I would still recommend the book but with that caveat.<br /><br />The book seesm to be largely derived from observations and techniques related to Tony Attwood's practice in Australia. Fans of Attwood should be pleased with that.  It doesn't hurt its marketing either.<br /><br />The author is a medical doctor and while that may lend some authority to the text, it is her position as a parent of a high functioning autistic child that drives the text along.  Many lesson plans and exercises are described in detail. A lot of form filling is recommended for recording behaviour (and hopefuly progress).  Some aspects of these procedures may not be applicable to all parental situations (awkward, time consuming, presuming too much of parents, etc.) but one has to look first at what can be done, rather than ruling out options in advance.<br /><br />It seems like a useful programme. I suspect it is would be very practical in the hands of extremely well organised parents.<br /><br />While being as fairminded as possible, it is important to point out that the book doesn't dwell much on evaluation studies.  Hence what is recommended is often the result of rewarding personal persistence and experience, rather than scientific validation.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong. This is not a snake oil book by any means (and there are so many about), but evaluation studies are important to some parents in helping to choose between approaches.<br /><br />Of course I would recommend this book. It is focused on the (very) able autistic child in my opinion however.  However, for group work that includes teenagers and parents especially in the vital area of pragmatics I would recommnend also Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents.d recommnend also Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents.	2002-11-23
US	37304756	RM2NHH5ARQ1EO	0072132590	453185247	FrontPage 2002 Developer's Guide	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	A good overview but too long	This is a good overview of a variety of aspects of Frontpage.  I couldn't work up the enthusiasm of the other reviewers however. The main weakness is that it drags out the obvious too often for my liking. The book is long enough to include much more technical detail on database integration and ASP (among other topics) for instance. Just a bit too elementary in parts. Instead, the sections on ASP are long on very little at all. The chapter headings read as if the cats pyjamas is to be revealed on the topics. But it doesn't happen. Much of what is in the book could be collapsed into a smaller text without loss of detail.<br />Frontpage is not a difficult application to get into gear. It's when you have to step outside Frontpage to correct its idiosyncracies that the real work begins.  This book won't light up the countryside on these aspects however. You will certainly learn a lot from this book. So if you get it as a present read it. It is an ideal beginner's book in that respect but you will outgro it after one reading I suspect.<br />For a bit more gravitas, Tiffany Edmond's text is smaller and covers much the same ground more concisely. However, the Inside Out book on Frontpage, puts even this offering in the shade (should do given its size).  In the final analysis, any book on Frontpage will require a supplemtary text on scripting and XML. Just factor those costs into your expenditure.	2002-11-23
US	37304756	R254GP11XRDEWM	013093254X	666118740	Essential FrontPage 2002 for Web Professionals	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	All round very good value.	This is quite a pithy focused text on Frontpage. Unusually useful(despite the editorial review cited above of course you won't learn all those scripting languages mentioned).<br />The book quickly cuts through a lot of Frontpage flannel in order to expose the best aspects of the application. Topics are presented briskly and intelligently.  Personally, I was surprised at how much I got out of it.<br />I was really reluctant to loan it to one of my postgrads which is the usual indicator of whether I truly value a book or not.	2002-11-23
US	37304756	R2L4AMQWGTL8DY	0130306576	335572759	Introduction to Programming with Visual Basic.NET, An (5th Edition)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Tremendous coverage but may not cover all you want	This is a reworking of Schneider's earlier VB book(s). It is important at the outset to grasp that this book, like his others, is written from a traditional data processing perspective (ubiquitous bank/loan account examples). Strong emphasis on structured programming is demonstrated throughout. So it's quite traditional in how it approaches topics. It has a marvellous collection of exercises both short and project based. If you can work through these, you will have a very good knowledge of traditional core programming skills. And this is the key point of the text: it is primarily about teaching you how to program using VB.net as the instruction medium and not anything else.<br />This is no quick tips and tools book, though it obviously contains such. Secondly, it is not a how to do GUIs book. You won't find much here on building multimedia applications or graphical games. Instead, the book offers a shoehorning of masses of programming techniques into the VB.net environment. And the work is very high quality both in terms of the examples and their pedagogical value.<br />In terms of layout, the book is particularly good. For a start it more or less lies flat when you open it. Colour coding of programs is used, and each chaper and topic is illustrated with clearly flagged example code and displays. There is no shortage of well developed code, (though some of the examples may seem a little conservative).<br />The first two thirds of the book introduces a bit of history and traditional programming thinking: procedures, decision logic, loops, arrays and files. The remainder deals with controls, OO in VB.net and database access. The OO chapter uses a reasonable number of examples to convey techniques and the exercises are interesting, but it is introductory (don't expect a crash course in abstract datatypes). However the chapter has but one graphics based example which is a bit mean.<br />While the book has exemplary strengths over and above the majority in the field, there are a few weaknesses which indicate the need for at least one supplementary text.<br />In the first place, the book has nothing to say on GDI+ programming, and many will judge this oversight as a serious flaw. Secondly, the multiple document interface capacity of VB.net (changed somewhat from VB6) is not developed. Indeed with the exception of three pages on adding multiple forms (482-485), the rationale for multiwindowed displays is completely overlooked. In fairness, the book is not focused around user interface design issues (either a strength or a weakness depending on your needs).<br />The chapter on databases access is good but just above elementary. However, don't expect a run down on web servers and XML. These topics are not covered.  Even a brief chapter on XML would not be out of place.<br />From a slightly more pedantic position, I am surprised that there is no general chapter on data structures. Arrays are given a very handsome chapter, and sorting a searching are developed well, but we don't explore explicitly stacks and queues. Now one of the strengths of VB.net is that stack and queue creation and manipulation are made trivial due to inbuilt functions. It would have been useful to see these in action. Moreover, trees and graphs are not covered, and that is a bit of a puzzle.<br />Overall the book is a superb programming text. Dated perhaps in some of its focus, but still a better introduction to programming than many notionally equivalent texts, which are perhaps more glamorous, but almost certainly less thoughtful.ere are a few weaknesses which indicate the need for at least one supplementary text. <br />In the first place, the book has nothing to say on GDI+ programming, and many will judge this oversight as a serious flaw. Secondly, the multiple document interface capacity of VB.net (changed somewhat from VB6) is not developed. Indeed with the exception of three pages on adding multiple forms (482-485), the rationale for multiwindowed displays is completely overlooked. In fairness, the book is not focused around user interface design issues (either a strength or a weakness depending on your needs).<br />The chapter on databases access is good but just above elementary. However, don't expect a run down on web servers and XML. These topics are not covered.  Even a brief chapter on XML would not be out of place.<br />From a slightly more pedantic position, I am surprised that there is no general chapter on data structures. Arrays are given a very handsome chapter, and sorting a searching are developed well, but we don't explore explicitly stacks and queues. Now one of the strengths of VB.net is that stack and queue creation and manipulation are made trivial due to inbuilt functions. It would have been useful to see these in action. Moreover, trees and graphs are not covered, and that is a bit of a puzzle.<br />Overall the book is a superb programming text. Dated perhaps in some of its focus, but still a better introduction to programming than many notionally equivalent texts, which are perhaps more glamorous, but almost certainly less thoughtful.	2002-11-20
US	37304756	RK5VLWI1SOUV	0735612544	37709978	Coding Techniques for Microsoft Visual Basic .Net	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Solid hands on advice and overview	This is not a book for a novice programmer.  It is geared towards the meeting the needs of professional system programmers.  You won't find anything here on MDI, GDI+ or a host of other VB features. For example, the steps behind attaching buttons to code could have been illustrated much more explicitly. So if you are still coming to terms with the core of VB, this book could produce a rather serious challenge. Consequently, the text is not a substitute for other broader overviews of VB.Net.<br />That being said, one of the exceptional strengths of the book is its efficient working through of the tool side of VB - which is huge.  Whether you want to create a form, a class, a module, an ASP project, the author has the way picked out pretty cleanly.  The CLR and Assembly sections are very written and really worth the effort.  The section of ADO.NET is good, but tends to rehash a lot of Microsoft technical information. Inevitable probably. The ELIZA program design gives a good insight into using collections efficiently. However, files and streams are treated too abruptly for my liking.<br />One of the other attractive aspects of the book is the lack of navel gazing about types and their cousins. Types are dealt with very practically (might not satisfy everyone).<br />Unfortunately, the style is at times a bit too terse. For instance, I don't think this is a useful book from which to pick up OO skills.  It covers class creation with a few very specific examples and then moves on. Theoretical digressions are noticeable by their absence. Again, a supplementary text will help here.<br />Overall, however, I am very keen on this book.  I learnt a lot more from it than I expected, and it is very well written. It is certainly a very valuable reference text.	2002-11-17
US	37304756	R3HZRHLF3ZISNV	0672323850	665633965	Sams Teach Yourself Flash MX ActionScript in 24 Hours	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Clearly missing a thorough proof reading	The most extraordinary flaws in this book are the constant references to files on a non existent CD. Each chapter has a selection of code examples that are accessible from a CD. However, the CD doesn't exist, and it beggars belief that the book made it all through proofing into print without this error being caught. There is no errata slip, and no mention of a website that might have the missing files (if you visit the author's own website, the files will be found). Moreover some of the code examples appear to be from the author's earlier Flash 5 book on game creation. There are also glitches in some of the books' code snippets (quotes added, and typos).<br />My overall impression of the book (I began skimming it after I discovered the CD flaw) is that it is easy to read, but not to follow. The CD flaw is so ubiquitous throughout the text, that one wonders whether Sam's shouldn't reimburse everyone who bought the book, or at least pencil them in for a reprint. Nearly every chapter references the contents of at least one CD file, but fails to replicate the code example on the page you're reading.<br />Another flaw is the lack of good software engineering practices to use with Flash. One of my biggest headaches in dealing with graduates that have 'mastered' Flash outside of Computer Science, is their lack of an understanding of structured programming. The book misses an opportunity to address these principles early on.<br />If the flaws above were fixed, this could be a great book. Until then I would not be happy to recommend it to a student.  Incidentally, the publishers still haven't replied to a complaint I emailed about the proof reading and missing CD.	2002-11-15
US	37304756	R1E3DJ9MYEH3IN	1556228554	297282059	Programming Microsoft Directshow (Multimedia Programming)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Paradoxically it is both after and before its time	This text is really two part-books. The first part, chapters one to twelve, deal with DirectShow, COM and friends. While chaptes 13 to 14 address DirectShow and .NET. The first part is almost out of date, since .NET architecture has served a notice-to-quit on COM, infavour of CLR. While the second part is premature, as MS haven't delivered on the intergration of DirectX in .NET.  This anomaly is not the fault of the author, but of the technology transition we are experiencing at present. It is a real pity. For instance in the first part we have reference to ASF formats. Now no one outside of MS has even the slightest interest in ASF, and MS largely has fogottent it in the past year.  The fact that so little of DirectX is actually available to .NET developers is moot point emphasised by the author.<br />Whether you buy this book of not, may largely be determined by the PC in front of you. If you are happy with 2000 and Visual Studio 6, then buy it.  However, if you are catching up with .NET and really don't want to wrestle with portability, then you might be better collecting material from MSDN and various newsgroups.  Moreover,the book doesn't come with a CD which is reprimandable oversight these days.<br />The fact of the matter however, is that there are very very few books addressing the DirectX family. The author has made a good effort to pull together useful and almost arcane information. My only further observation, is that a bit more discussion of code design would have been useful.	2002-10-11
US	37304756	R3OR1641SFFJH4	0205276911	920667301	Multimedia for Learning: Methods and Development (3rd Edition)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Excellent breadth and and depth of coverage	This is an excellent text in terms of coverage and pacing.  If you are interested in human-computer interaction, this is a 'must have' text. What astonished me about this book is that it covered more issues in HCI than many dedicated user interface design books. The text admirably blends practical considerations with theoretical concerns and trends. It strongly focuses on motivational issues surrounding users of learning packages(an area largely ignored in the bulk of standard HCI texts). Don't pass over this book.	2002-10-05
US	37304756	R2PH3B9DT9WJ8L	0735613826	129419391	Microsoft Windows XP Inside out	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	Good overview of a sprawling software system	This book is a good overview of the essentials of XP and Office XP.  It is well laid out and the general formatting is commendable. It is a 'nice' book to open and read.  I don't have any regrets about the purchase.<br />However, it is not a book that will support many programmers and given its size, that's disappointing.  For programming under XP you'll need to get an MS XP resource kit book.  The book is also a bit deficient on the whole Media Technology thrust of MS, which is a bit surprising.<br />These points being made, it is a very worthwhile purchase.	2002-08-22
US	37304756	RTQXSCZJ6HOOA	0735617872	860275096	Applied Microsoft .NET Framework Programming in Microsoft Visual Basic .NET (Developer Reference)	Books	2	10	18	N	Y	An uneven book, part light and part fog	This book is a hit-and-miss affair with good technical points often surrounded by thickets of software obscurantism.  To be fair this is not entirely the authors' fault but stems in part from the .NET architecture.<br />The formatting in places is absolutely abyssmal.  Code embedded in paragraphs of text and wrapping around lines, for instance.  The book is not particularly well written and I found chunks of it very tedious in the extreme.<br />I wasn't convinced that many of the examples were particularly illustrative of what most programmers will want from .NET.  However, I suspect that this is the inevitable result of copying everything from the C# version of the book into a the VB version.<br />The book is very definitely stamped with C# thinking though it is ostensibly a VB text.  I believe the strategy is mistaken.  C# and VB have very different models and will be used (in the main) by different classes of programmer with different needs.  These differences are not reflected proportionately in the VB text and made parts of the book seem like a technical dog's dinner.<br />Perhaps if the authors produced a text from the pure VB.NET point of view many of these instances of unevenness could have been avoided.	2002-08-22
US	37304756	R2IOVPA9EWKVPK	0735612773	436257432	Microsoft Office XP Inside Out	Books	3	29	29	N	Y	Oscillates between too little and too much information	The most positive aspect of this book is that is also available as an ebook on its accompanying CD.  It is certainly a starter book on Office XP, and there is probably not enough in each section to develop a depth of expertise.  The section on VBA for instance is fairly general.  However, if you are trying to come to terms with Office as a whole for the first time this is a worthwhile book compared with many others of similar size.<br />However, let me add one caveat.  There is a companion volume 'XP Inside Out' which covers a lot of the ground covered in this book.  I would recommend buying that volume first and then decide if you need Office XP Inside Out or one of the application specific Inside Out books.	2002-08-22
US	37304756	R2ZFYVAIE0Q041	0789722259	171754149	Inside Windows Media	Books	2	9	9	N	Y	Short on technical content.  Too light. Too dated.	This text was published in 1999 and is accompanied by a CD of code and utilities.  I wouldn't advise installing the CD in an XP environment, but seems fine under 2000, etc.  Download the latest Windows Media SDK from Microsoft if using XP.<br />While the book has lots of interesting overview material, very little is tackled in depth.  In fact, much of the book seems like padding around a few technical chunks.  The programming content of the book is in chapter 9 and deals exclusively with automating various aspects of Windows Media (e.g. Windows Media Encoder).  In this repsect, the title is misleading.<br />Personally, I was very disappointed to see so little on .avi.  The specification of an avi file was only briefly described (you have to go to the web to get avi information of any quality).  There is simply no good reason for failing to detail avi.  Why Micorsoft doesn't devote a chunk of web pages to .avi is simply beyond me.  The authors of this text mention avi only to dismiss it and argue for asf as the better standard.<br />The comparison between avi and asf is nicely arranged but surprisingly no avi or asf parser is discussed, despite RIFF parsers having been around for years.  A whole lyer of background information was simply not there on the origins of these standards.<br />The two pages on codecs (229-230) are grossly inadequate and give a flimsy overview of developments.  For instance, the Intel Indeo codecs are not mentioned at all despite their success with avi compression.<br />My overall impression is that the book is largely dated by the advent of XP media technologies and egregiously short on meaty technical detail. Unfortunately Microsoft haven't yet produced a suitable programmer's guide to windows media programming.  So if you are really stuck and can't spent a few hours conducting intelligent web searches for resources, this book will meet some of your requirements.  In the final analysis, however, this book is poor value for its price.	2002-07-30
US	37304756	R2HQT315ZF9LEY	0684867400	365104016	Fast Girls: Teenage Tribes and the Myth of the Slut	Books	3	10	17	N	Y	Repetively anecdotal and unsophisticated	Much of this book is divided between repetitive anecdotes and personal musings that pass for analysis.  There is something of value here but it could be condensed into a good magazine article without loss of worth. The author is also preoccupied with meeting women that had been stigmatised as 'sluts' in their adolescence. Some of the resulting intrusions lack any serious analytical content to raise them above the level of excursions into journalistic voyeurism.  The book fails to factor likely childhood sexual abuse (CSA)into the 'explanations' of teenage female promiscuity.  In my opinion, this is such a serious shortcoming as to call the whole exercise into question.  There is simply buckets of evidence to suggest that a high percentage of 'over sexualised' female adolescents correlate strongly with childhood sexual abuse. If the author had explored the relationship between CSA and 'sluts', she would have produced a much more insightful text.	2002-06-30
US	37304756	R1V7YEEEIQTPDH	1557664536	642807255	Do-Watch-Listen-Say: Social and Communication Intervention for Children with Autism	Books	5	47	52	N	Y	Valuable resource geared towards child inteventions	Working on a voluntary basis with Autistic teenagers, while researching and developing an intervention program, has brought me into contact with a world of research literature, instructional manuals and 'snake oil', that I never before contemplated.  Quill's book stands out as well researched, with solid practices.  Quill is careful to document the steps in the pedagogical process and the outcomes that are possible as a result. The purposes and methodology behind each lesson are very precisely explained.  Parents and therapists reading this book are left with no illusions of the difficulties facing them in effecting even small progress. I have read at least half a dozen texts directed at children's needs dealing with the same themes, and in my opinion Quill's text is among the best.  This is tremendous contribution, in my opinion, to interventions for autistic children.<br /><br />Parents and professionals working with high functioning autistic teenagers (Asperger Sydnrome) may find less of direct applicability. In this case, I would recommend also looking at Succeeding with Interventions for Asperger Syndrome Adolescents.	2002-05-13
US	37304756	R4DJW3PMKXQHO	188547766X	980825044	The New Social Story Book : Illustrated Edition	Books	1	22	73	N	N	Where is the scientific evidence for the method?	I do voluntary work with Asperger adolescents and I have yet to find any serious research in support of 'social stories'.  Admittedly they are pitched at low functiong young children, but the heuristics are so general and traditional (and so widespread in visualisation therapies in general) that it is nigh on impossible to extract a testable method.<br />This book is an example from a genre for kids with special needs that bases its 'methodology' on repackaging the obvious. To be fair a minority of parents may find that helpful, and good luck to them.  But how does one distinguish between the contributions a good teacher makes to a child's improvement, and any contribution from social stories? I have no idea.<br />A different and more research grounded approach is taken by Howlin and Baron-Cohen: Teaching children with Autism to mind read. However,it is horses for courses, and parents may prefer the 'touchy feely' hue of Social Stories. Personally I would want something stronger than anecdotal reports.	2002-05-13
