US	37385132	R3L8A9PT07R25E	038920336X	145110697	Jane Austen, Feminism and Fiction	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the best literary studies of Jane Austen that I have read	I am not usually fond of academic criticism, but, at risk of ruining Kirkham's reputation with her peers, I thought this was marvelous.   The book is free from jargon, not \\"trendy\\", and does not throw out some \\"daring\\" (and impausible) novelty.  As such, it is still well worth reading 17 years after publication.  It is one of the most valuable books that I have read about Jane Austen and I would recommend it to almost anyone.    This is an extremely readable, well-argued and -supported look at Austen's writings, focussing on her place in the discussion of the proper role of woman and literature in her time.  I have read biographies that have touched on this topic, but they were incomplete and shallow compared to this work.   I have learned an enormous amount.  Kirkham also mentions various critics who have disagreed with her, so the reader is introduced to the controversies and able to follow up on the topic.       I have a few minor cavils.  Kirkham follows the unfortunate academic habits of not always translating non-English quotes, and referring to her own opinions in the third-person, i.e. \\"The Reader\\".  Other little dissatisfactions may be the choices of the publisher: the chapters have a running title at the top of the page, but are referred to in the notes only by number, requiring the reader to flip back to the beginning of chapters to match citations with references.  There is no bibiliography: in particular, I would have like a bibliography of the works of other novelists whose works are compared or contrasted with Austen's.  These are not listed in the notes, either.  There are some proof-reading failures, as in the chapter on Mansfield Park, where Dr. Grant is referred to as \\"Dr. Crawford\\".    These complaints are, taken with the book as a whole, fade into relative insignificance.  This is a book well worth reading.    For those interested in the general topic, I also recommend Claudia Johnson's [[ASIN:0226401391 Jane Austen: Women, Politics, and the Novel]], which is similar in intent but different enough in approach to be complementary rather than repetitive.   Alison G. Sulloway's [[ASIN:0812213386 Jane Austen and the Province of Womanhood]] analyzes her writing in view of contemporary advice on female conduct rather than literary works.	2005-10-04
US	37385132	R2C0TWWB0AKCEM	0618446877	245124319	Dark Star Safari: Overland from Cairo to Capetown	Books	2	22	29	N	N	A book about Theroux, not Africa	I once read an essay that claimed that books about foreign travel tell us about the traveler, not the place visited.  I took that with a grain of salt, but that is certainly true in this detailed narration of a few months of Theroux's life, with Africa as a backdrop.  I won't say that I knew a great deal about Africa before I read this, and I don't know much more afterwards.  I am skeptical of someone who keeps telling us that he has brought his copy of Heart of Darkness; he's probably decided what he wants to see already.  Obviously, from the other reviews, there are fans of Theroux who are happy just to read his prose or vicariously trot along in his footsteps.   I hope such people have a good time with the book, I just don't recommend it to anyone primarily interested in Africa.     Theroux's account seems particularly pathetic when I compare it to my sociology professor's wise, witty and often self-deprecating accounts of his own time in village Africa.  He wasn't the know-it-all that Theroux is, and he, and we, his students, learned a lot more from his experiences than from a book like this.  I have often reflected on those lessons in the 30 years since I was in that class.  If I had owned the copy I read of this book, it would have gone straight to the library donation cart.    I almost abandoned the book near the beginnning as Theroux whines all the way down the Nile while doing nothing in particular.  Most of his writing is devoted to congratulating himself on being a superior tourist.  I am not sure why we are supposed to care.  I have never read a book by Theroux before, I won't read another, and I frankly don't care about him, his doings and his thoughts.  One of my favorite parts of the book is when he writes ahead to an American consulate and orders them to arrange a series of lectures for him.  Overwhelmed by his own magnanimousness at being willing to lecture for free, he is stunned to arrive and learn that they have done nothing.  As he ponders thisastounding development, it doesn't occur to him that perhaps the personnel were wondering who he is and why he supposes that they are his personal publicity agents.    Theroux has very little meaningful contact with average Africans and has little to tell us.  I really don't care if he doesn't like luxury safaris - the only important question is how they affect the peoples of the countries hosting them.  My understanding is that this varies, and that in some cases is well managed and eases the conflict between local villagers and wildlife preserves.  To the extent that this is true, they are more valuable to Africans than he is.  Theroux prefers traditional ways, but since he seems to see other people's lives as an aesthetic experience for himself, I am unconvinced by his uninformative pronouncements.    Except for a few conversations with individuals, the only worthwhile parts are the discussions about foreign aid, and this is chiefly useful as a guide to other books to read.  It is telling that Theroux, congratulating himself on roughing it, thinks that he deserves special privileges in the form of free rides from aid workers.   He doesn't get them, and his outrage at this affront to his self-importance makes me distrust his assessments.  Is the problem chiefly that the aid-workers do a bad job or that they fail to recognize that Paul Theroux is a tremendously important person?    Theroux complains at great length that foreign aid doesn't do much to supply jobs and breeds dependency.  So his comments on used clothing are very odd. He tells us at least twice that donated clothing is sold to used clothing dealers, who in turn sell it to the locals.  This is apparently supposed to shock and dismay us.   I think it's a great idea: unless Africa is being terrorized by a used-clothing cartel, or foreign organizations are getting rich off this, it provides work for the shopkeepers, defrays some of the transportation costs, and gets the clothing distributed at a price that he says the locals can afford.  While it still subsidizes their clothing budget, it also places them in a less dependent situation that a straight giveaway would.  So what is the problem?  Giving the clothing away free would still cost money - little shops are probably more effective.    As for his descriptions of scenery, this is certainly a case where a picture is worth ten thousand words, and if I'm going to read about it, I'd rather read someone who can discuss the areas in depth.    If one wants to learn about Africa, I'd put this pretty low on the list.  There are a few little nuggets about various literary figures that he met, but they aren't the sort of thing that I wanted to learn about when I picked up this book, and they are certainly not worth wading through the verbiage.  I'd read this only if one thinks that Theroux possesses the curmudgeonly charm that his publishers attribute to him.	2005-09-09
US	37385132	R1MOUVII6RLWLR	0898798124	146930883	The Writer's Guide to Everyday Life in Regency and Victorian England from 1811-1901	Books	3	39	39	N	N	A very uneven book	This book could be very useful, but often more as a guide to other sources, rather than as a authority in its own right.  The appendices, listing numerous references sources as well as a very useful list of relevant museums should be valuable to anyone starting out to do research.  Particularly relevant sources are also collected at the end each chapter.  If this is intended to be a reference source for writers, then they need detailed information laid out in an efficient format.  Hughes does this sometimes, and other times seems to wander off into writing an anecdotal social history.  I wonder whether it was a good idea to pack 90 years that saw enormous social changes into one book.  I think that Hughes has often wasted space including extensive quotes that would have been better paraphrased and condensed, as well as including information of marginal use, such as numerous recipes and a list of the number of servants advertising for jobs in the Times on January 10, 1870.  One might also wonder why 1801-1810 is not covered, especially since there is a writer's guide covering the 18th century.  The period isn't completely ignored, but it must be frustrating for anyone  wanting information about the turn of the 18th-19th century.  Granted, the Regency, strictly speaking, was 1811-1820, but that wasn't the start of the Victorian era either.  Many people consider the Regency period to go back to 1800 or even 1780.  The chapters themselves are uneven in quality.  The first section, on lighting, is precisely the sort of thing a writer would need: the different types of lighting are carefully described in detail with dates given so that the reader knows precisely what was in use when.  Rather than simply saying that gaslights began to be installed in London in 1807, Hughes carefully explains that only certain small areas were lit at first.  There are also very useful lists like the terminuses for the stage coaches, papers in circulation, naval insignia, prohibitions to marriage, etc.  On the other hand, Hughes tells us that flush toilets were invented by 1777 and then leaps to the 1860s to talk about Victorian bathrooms.  What about the near century in between?  Were people installing flush toilets, or were they simply experimental?  On a number of occasions, Hughes throws in an interesting quote on some subject, such as the excerpts from The Habits of Good Society, published in 1864 without any indication of whether the information is valid for the entire era or only for the immediate period.  In the chapter on clothing, Hughes wisely tells us that she is not going to attempt to give a history of fashion in one chapter and provides an extensive bibliography.  She then takes up the chapter with long quotes from various sources, but this hit or miss information isn't very helpful, and could have been summarized in a few sentences.  I think that Hughes would have done better to warn the reader about tricky subjects that may not be covered in a basic history of fashion and need to be researched.  Court dress, for example, was codifed, and a writer should not necessarily send a character to court in a fashionable outfit, however fine.  I'm not an expert, but I believe that the rules for court dress also changed during this period: an author would need to look this up so that the outfits are appropriate to the specific time.  I believe that this is also the period when the special-purpose wedding dress came into fashion.  Early in the century, brides were married in their best day dress, cut according to ordinary fashion, not a special design.  If she could afford a trousseau, it might be new for the wedding, but it would not be any special color.  Veils and the one-use fantasy dress came later.  Hughes does give us some information relating specifically to the middle class and the poor, which is good, but she often describes customs, particularly mourning customs, which can only have applied to the wealthiest, without much indication ofthe shift in customs as one moves down the social scale.  She does include a useful list of mourning fabrics, though oddly enough, it does not include paramatta, which is mentioned several times in the text.  I'd love to see a second, greatly revised edition.  Meanwhile, I think that writers interested in the Regency Era would be better served by Malcolm Day's [[ASIN:B0072N53S2 Voices from the World of Jane Austen]], Jennifer Kloester's [[ASIN:0434013293 Georgette Heyer's Regency World]], and Sharon H. Laudermilk's & Teresa Hamlin's [[ASIN:0824022491 The Regency Companion (Garland Reference Library of the Humanities, Vol. 841)]].	2005-08-13
US	37385132	R2PQRMXVP8CA8T	0801861128	110240713	The Life and Gardens of Harvey Ladew	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A very well done biography	Maryland has a unique treasure in the form of the Ladew Topiary Gardens.  Harvey S. Ladew (1887-1976), originally from New York, came to Maryland looking for more room to fox-hut as Long Island became built up.  He bought a farm and laid out 22 acres of very distinctive gardens, including such unusual features as \\"room\\" gardens and of course, the extensive, often whimsical topiary.  Ladew designed and did a great deal of the actual gardening himself.  Wishing to preserve his work, towards the end of his life, he and his friends created a foundation to maintain the gardens.    I am not the sort of person who watches Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous or reads society pages, so I must admit that I found Ladew's life somewhat dull.  Admittedly, if I had inherited the kind of money that he did, I don't think that I would have become a wage-slave either, but drifting around the world going to lots of good parties, while undoubtedly a lot of fun for Ladew, doesn't make for interesting reading, in my opinion.   There are, however, lots of people who do follow the rich and famous, so this may all be very entertaining for them to read about Ladew palling around with the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, Noel Coward, and various others aristocrats and socialites.   The biography is generally very laudatory, though I must say that I wouldn't have been interested in second-guessing whether or not he should have fox-hunted, etc.    The book is beautifully done.  There is a section of color plates, and an abundance of black and white pictures scattered throughout the text.   There are abundant notes, and the section is laid out so that it is easy to match the reference in the text to the corresponding notes.  Explanatory notes are included with the bibliographic.  There is also an index.	2005-08-13
US	37385132	R2C8GUW2M6SHDB	0446678503	109172118	A Trust Betrayed (Margaret Kerr of Perth)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	An enjoyable historical mystery	I enjoyed this novel and I am looking forward to the sequel.  I found the setting to be very convincing.  One of the criterion for a book being readable and engrossing is that I am surprised to look up from the page and find that it is not a wet, chilly spring outside, it's the middle of summer and in the 90s. <br /> <br />Robb notes that she has made a judicious use of Scots words, since lowland Scots actually sounded pretty much like the northern English.   She does have a glossary in the back, which was very helpful once I found it.  Also very useful are a series of maps zeroing in from a map of Britain to the neighborhood of Edinburgh where most of the action takes place. <br /> <br />These are not the most charming characters that I have ever met in fiction, although I became fond of some of them, but they are very real: complex, fallible and struggling with the dilemmas in their lives.  I care very much what happens to them and I am anxious to read the next installment to find out. <br /> <br />The complexity of the Scottish political situation is made plain: there are two chief Scottish contenders for the throne, and unfortunately their adherents sometimes fight one another more than the English who are subjugating them.  <br /> <br />I love the cover design and illustration by John Martinez. <br />	2005-08-07
US	37385132	R2CHOPJ5GZGLIH	0060185430	443048481	Ladies of the Grand Tour: British Women in Pursuit of Enlightenment and Adventure in Eighteenth-Century Europe	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Outstanding book both on travel and on women	I am delighted to be able to \\"live\\" 18th century travel through the eyes of the woman that Dolan brings to life.  I am especially glad not to be travelling like they did - airport security gates are a much aggravation as I can take.    Dolan takes his topic broadly.   The book is not just a recounting of travel incidents -- it spends considerable time on the significance of being abroad, particularly for those women who spend time in France during the Revolution, eventually fleeing as it turned into the Terror.  He conveys a good sense of the differences between that time and this, when views and videos of faraway places are immediately and widely available.    This book is particularly set apart by Dolan's sensitive examination of the women's status in their society.  I was particularly touched by his discussion of the double-bind that made women \\"frivolous\\" if they concentrated on domestic and personal matters, but \\"unwomanly and unnatural\\" if they attempted to broaden their horizons.   I was aware that women were not usually well-educated in this era, but surprised to learn of the panic engendered if they attempted self-education.    An excellent book for those interested in this era, in travel, or in the historical situation of women.	2005-08-06
US	37385132	R31X3QRJ8LUKXG	0060591579	141066384	The Queen of Subtleties	Books	2	9	11	N	N	A fragment of a good story lost in flat banalities	I had supposed when I opened this book that the title \\"Queen of Subtleties\\" would be applied to the two narrators in different senses: to Lucy Cornwallis as the pastry chef and Anne Boleyn as a plotter.  There is no subtlety whatsoever to the portrayal of Anne.  There is none in the interweaving of the two narrations, either.  They don't necessarily match in time or theme, so I suppose that Dunn simply chopped up the two stories based on page numbers or to avoid writing seques.    The Lucy Cornwallis sections could have been completed into a very interesting historical novel.  Since Lucy, like most of the common people of the time, sided with Catherine of Aragon, this could have made a very interesting counterpoint to Anne Boleyn's tale.  One of the things that is most fascinating about it is the look at behind-the-scenes at the palace, not the world of the courtiers, but of the common people who did the real work of running the place.  Particularly interesting is the informal look at the relationship between them and Henry.  I feel somewhat cheated to after all I have read about the Tudors, I didn't know that Henry played cards with his cellerer (and lost!) until I read this.  Readers with an interest might want to read Joan Glasheen's [[ASIN:0713483938 The Secret People of the Palaces: The Royal Household from the Plantagenets to Queen Victoria]], which is rather dry (a lot of it is simply lists of offices) but contains a number of interesting anecdotes as well.   [[ASIN:0285635344 All the King's Cooks: The Tudor Kitchens of King Henry VIII at Hampton Court Palace]] by Peter Brears should obviously be right on point.    Unfortunately, this promising piece is never completely developed and is paired with a flat, simplistic account of Anne Boleyn.  This is supposed to be written on the eve of her death, intended for her daughter Elizabeth, but I regard it as a complete failure.  It simply doesn't ring true as an account of someone looking backwards, worrying about how their child will think of them, knowing that they are to die the next day.   Only at some of the points when Anne is actually thinking about her daughter is there any nuance to her character, reflection, or any sense of leave-taking.  Otherwise, she is always shrill, literally and figuratively, crude in all senses of the word  and utterly without character development.  Anne, as seen by Dunn, apparently had no inner life and insight into herself and other people, which I think is the point of a novel.  Otherwise, one can simply read an encyclopedia article.  There is no point recounting this oft-told tale unless the author has something more to offer than this flat, simplistic account.   Or if this is how she wants to present Anne Boleyn, maybe she should have told the story from the point of view of Mary Tudor, Henry and Catharine's daughter.   For better Anne Boleyn novels, I'd read [[ASIN:075243943X The Concubine]] by Norah Lofts or [[ASIN:B0006ARWK0 Brief gaudy hour,: A novel of Anne Boleyn]] by Margaret Campbell Barnes.   At this point, I believe Eric Ives' [[ASIN:1405134631 The Life and Death of Anne Boleyn]] is considered the best biography; I also like Marie Lousie Bruce's [[ASIN:0698104803 Anne Boleyn.]].    The language of this section is deliberately (according to the notes) modern and jarring. apparently in intentional contrast to the Lucy Cornwallis section.  I am not normally a stickler for historic accuracy in language, absolutely accurate language would difficult to read, but this is painful.  I can only suppose that Dunn means the contrast to signify that England would have been a better, gentler place without Anne Boleyn.  I can't imagine what else she thinks it accomplishes.    Only for the VERY dedicated historical novel reader.	2005-08-06
US	37385132	RABI7MN8P3YZV	042520359X	172035826	Knit One, Kill Two (Knitting Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	85	92	N	N	A promising first novel and first book in a series.	I usually wait to judge a new series until I read the second book, but I am a little taken aback by negative views of this volume.  I often find the first book of a series weak, but the author develops assurance as they continue.  Or they crash and burn.  Ellis Peter's Brother Cadfael became one of my favorite series, but I thought that the first book, [[ASIN:B001KT7ILO A Morbid Taste for Bones]], was decidedly mediocre, especially for an experienced writer.    I would agree with some of the other reviewers that the characters need more development and the book certainly needed better editing. The editing is probably hopeless, but the character development wasn't so dreadful as to ruin the book for me and can certainly be improved in further installments.  While Kelly's ability to switch to being an off-site employee may or may not be unrealistic in her industry, but it seems more plausible for an accountant than most jobs.    One thing that impressed me about the book was Sefton's description of the sensory overload that some of us go into when we get into a yarn shop.  I also prefer amateur detectives who have a little sense when it comes to dealing with clearly dangerous people, and so I am very happy that Sefton doesn't have her heroine going off alone to confront the killer.  I would have preferred that Sefton had not fallen into the cliched trap of trying to set up a bickering relationship with the obvious potential love interest.  It didn't work too well, and I find bickering a poor substitute for plot.    Since the story involves things that happened decades before, I am glad that Sefton chose the more realistic plot of the characters having gotten on with their lives, generally successfully, and not becoming fixated on the past.  I don't like stories, especially series, where the characters continue to have the same problems with the same people with no resolution.   (Except for running into an inordinate number of murders, of course.)    I will definitelybe checking out the next book, and I hope this will prove to be a successful series.   Those interested in the needlework aspects may enjoy Monica Ferris' Betsy Devonshire mystery series, which begins with Crewel World or Debbie Macomber also has an interesting novel called The Shop on Blossom Street, both of which center around knitting/needlework shops.	2005-07-29
US	37385132	R3QTCUS1R4260D	0719555515	562727049	Passion & Principle: The Loves and Lives of Regency Women	Books	3	7	8	N	N	The scandals of Georgiana and Harriet Spencer - very disappointing	I don't necessarily fault books that are based on secondary research - there can be great value in pulling scattered material together, and in such cases, there is no need for the author to come up with new theories.   The urge to claim a novelty has produced a lot of bad books.      Unfortunately, almost everything here is covered adequately in other, better books, and this superficial assemblage has little to recommend it, unless the reader wants the scandal without having to plow through other, more significant historical information.  I was excited to find this book and terribly disappointed by the time I finished it.    Most of this book is narrowly focused on the love life of two sisters, Georgiana Spencer, Duchess of Devonshire and Henrietta (Harriet) Spencer, Countess of Bessborough.  Hodge apparently feels that real measure of female liberation is the ability to engage in extra-marital sex, as opposed to trivialities like education, choosing one's own spouse, financial independence, etc., so she finds it terribly exciting and important that these two sisters managed to have out-of-wedlock children without being divorced.   This approach seriously scants both the period and the lives of these two women.    Having read Amanda Foreman's [[ASIN:0375753834 Georgiana: Duchess of Devonshire (Modern Library Paperbacks)]], I find Hodge's treatment of the Spencer sisters superficial and trivializing.  The sisters were very active and influential in politics, actually canvassing voters and appearing in public, scandalizing the Tories.  If you are interested in their lives, I'd read Amanda Foreman and skip this.    Even if one considers their extra-marital affairs to be terribly important, two woman do not make a convincing study of the period, not even of the aristocratic class.  Their license is rather offset by the cloistering of the royal princesses.  One is left not knowing whether this events are the result of social trends or individual decisions.  Certainly theDuke of Devonshire's family did not take Georgiana's conduct lightly and urged him to divorce her.  Would the entire position of women in this period have been revolutionized if one man had decided on a divorce?  Henrietta Spencer's husband began divorce proceedings against her in 1788, after learning of her affair with Sheridan, but was persuaded by family pressure to drop them.  Elizabeth Vassell, Lady Webster, was divorced in 1797.  Hodge doesn't really canvas the era and contrast it with others to make a convincing case.    Toward the end of the book, Hodge deals with female authors - this section is actually interesting.  Here Hodge argues that during this period, woman were more likely to wrote under their own names, not concealing their gender under masculine or gender-neutral names as the Brontes later would.  Of course, this is probably much better covered in literary histories of the period.    I recommend this only to people who want to be sure they have read everything on this period.  I wouldn't recommend it as an introduction to the period in general or the lives and status of women.  A very interesting book which overlaps the beginning of the era and actually provided a much more acute look at women's lives is Brian Dolan's [[ASIN:0060185430 Ladies of the Grand Tour: British Women in Pursuit of Enlightenment and Adventure in Eighteenth-Century Europe]].	2005-07-29
US	37385132	RCFEFK1R2GY0V	0425198278	895158111	Crewel Yule (Needlecraft Mystery)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Pure pleasure - One of my favorite series	Ferris' latest is as enjoyable as always. I do recommend that the reader try to read the books in order, as the characters develop, although it isn't absolutely necessary.   The needlework lore is, as usual, fascinating, and I think that story is interesting even for someone who doesn't do needlework.      Ferris made a lot of good decisions in setting up this series that add to both the storytelling and the plausibility.  Betsy is not an expert craftswoman (she inherited the store) and so it is reasonable to have people explaining things to her.  Her best friend is a capable policewoman.  She knows when to call the police: no going down alone into dark cellars to look for axe murderers.      Ferris strands Betsy, Godwin and Jill in a snowbound hotel in Nashville for a needlework trade show.  Jill and Betsy attempt to solve the death (murder, suicide, accident?) of a store-owner who had abused a lot of people.  Godwin spends most of his time being his usual charming self.  The characters are as likeable as always, the dialogue is well done.  I was amused by the setting of a hotel besieged by snow - eventually, that sort of thing of thing is funny.  My chief regret is the Mavreen Harrison, the overworked night manager/acting day manager in this crisis, will presumably be staying in Nashville.  What a delightful character!    The reader does need to check the dates that head some of the paragraphs.  The book begins with a series of flashbacks explaining the background of the character and the suspects intermingled with the beginning of the mystery.  Considerable setup is required for the story, so it keeps the action going while telling the reader the important facts.    I also enjoyed Ferris' theme relating to the character of the deceased.  Ferris dwells on the contradictions and frustration created by a person who swings between kindness and cruelty and supposes, as one of the characters notes, that cuteness is a license to behave however one likes, and an apologymeans that it never happened and the victim has to forgive and forget.  Too often, there is an epiphany at the end of the book (movie, TV episode) in which one good deed wipes out years of pain.  While Ferris isn't recommending murder, she does deal meaningfully with anger.  If this interests the reader, I'd recommend Agatha Christie's The Mirror Crack'd, which turns on the difference between being kind or well-meaning and thoughtful.    I have one very serious complaint: this is probably the worst copy editting that I have ever seen.  Whole phrases are left out of sentences, character names are confused.  There are electronic grammer check programs that would have caught a lot of these mistakes.  Inexcusable!    First book in the series: [[ASIN:0425167801 Crewel World (Needlecraft Mystery)]]	2005-07-24
US	37385132	R3PQ0VWJ692YQO	0226038130	913542978	Presumption: An Entertainment: A Sequel to Pride and Prejudice	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An enjoyable book for a cozy read	When reviewing a book like this, I don't expect the author to fool me into thinking that it is Jane Austen.  I just want it to me readable and not a travesty.   Readers should be aware that this is not a true sequel, in the sense that Elizabeth and Darcy become secondary characters and Georgiana Darcy is the main focus.   Readers should be aware that the author \\"plays it safe\\" in plotting by shuffling elements from P&P, Jane Austen's life and other works.   I know that some people find this annoying, and it leads to some unfortunate plot choices and lapses in characterization.  The actions and reactions of Mrs. Hurst & Caroline Bingley in Chapter 36?  I don't think so.    I've only read a couple of other attempted sequels to P&P, but I think that this is much better than Emma Tennent both for attempting to maintain the style of writing and the integrity of the characters.  Occasionally, I found a sentence that was so convoluted I don't think that I could have made word by word sense of it, but for the most part, Barrett has captured the very formal prose that somehow results in a light and sparkling story and the sense of irony.    I have one problem with it, and that is in the relationship of Georgiana Darcy and and her brother's \\"improver\\" James Leigh-Cooper.   The latter is supposed to be a man of an unspecified modest background who has a positive genius as an architect/landscape designer.  He is touchy about, but doesn't apologize for his origins.  He and Georgiana are supposed to have an often combative relationship in the beginning, but it simply isn't done convincingly.  It is difficult to understand why Georgiana, who has never been portrayed as particularly snobbish, flies into pets over his rather low-key \\"insolence\\" to provoking people, particularly just before she asks a question that assumes that he is a member of the gentry.    The only time that I think she is understandably annoyed is when he goes ballastic over a banal inquiry about his possible relatives.   I am no expert, but I thought that English people usually hyphenated their names to acknowledge/qualify for a substantial inheritance, like Jane Austen's older brother who became James Austen-Leigh.  One would therefore suppose that Leigh-Cooper would be either of the gentry, or at least, like the Bingleys, of the wealthy middle-class.    Still, I enjoyed the book and it certainly beats most of the JA imitators that I have read.	2005-07-23
US	37385132	R1RE0TDB3MPZ9L	0374175268	586571123	An Imperfect God: George Washington, His Slaves, and the Creation of America	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A book I'd recommend to all Americans	I was glad to find this book - the hints about Washington and slavery in his other biographies have been tantalizing.  This is so much more than just an examination of his papers.  Wiencek has done a heroic job of research poring over an enormous variety of materials, talking with people to get oral histories, even going out to the Pioneer Farm to experience work during that era.     One of the most valuable issues that Wiencek discusses is the importance of African-Americans in the Revolutionary War.  And the sad fact that their contributions, originally aknowledged, were gradually ignored.  Alas, there is no reliable trend towards freedom and fairness.    The book explores the consequences and circumstances of slavery at the time, especially in Virginia, in great depth.   He considers the tradeoffs between attempts to end slavery and maintain the union of all the colonies/states.  He lays out this difficult questions without trying to give simplistic answers.    His view of Washington is nuanced, tracking changes in his attitudes over time and appreciating both his attempts to act according to his conscience and opportunities when he might have done more.  In the end, I think that Wiencek has been quite fair and that my understanding of Washington, always one of my favorites among the Founders has been enormously enhanced.    The only trouble that I had reading the book is the depression brought on by the reminder that there is no bottom to the evils that people will inflict upon one another.	2005-07-23
US	37385132	R1WTTFGJA2WKMY	0765350718	539749596	Pride and Prescience (Or A Truth Universally Acknowledged) (Mr. and Mrs. Darcy Mysteries)	Books	3	43	46	N	N	Seriously flawed, but a series with potential	I found this book delightful in its portrayal of the newly-married Elizabeth and Fitzwilliam Darcy.  The author has done a creditable job of maintaining the wit and lightness of Pride and Prejudice.  I am delighted that the newly weds' intimacy is indicated by playful banter, not graphic sex scenes.    On the other hand, although I have a great love for folklore and I have read several detective series with supernatural themes, I don't think that it fits in well with Jane Austen.    I found the American connection in this story a bit implausible.  A plot device has to satisfy both the ongoing narrative and the hidden plot(s) that are revealed as the story goes on, particularly in a mystery.  If something seems odd, the characters need to comment upon it.    For me, the plot first began to fall apart with the unlikely suggestion that the solution to a case of nervous prostration would be to embark on a several month journey from England to the United States during the War of 1812, delaying any expert treatment until she arrives in New Orleans.  The Bingleys and Darcys do object, but Elizabeth Darcy seems to have forgotten that Professor Randolph, who puts forth the scheme, has told her only the week before that the war had more or less stranded him in England.  One needs to keep in mind that the US was what we would now call a Third World or Developing Nation.  Sending someone with serious nervous and physical problems from England to the United States would be about like having a heart attack in Baltimore and going to Zimbabwe for emergency care.  Even if one could get perfectly good care in the latter place, it isn't likely to be better than what one could get locally.  Why risk the stress and delay of the trip?    After this incident, I began to question the entire likelihood of the American fiance.  Would an American, even a wealthy one, be warmly received by the Polite World in England, especially when the two countries are at war?  Granted, the Bingleys aren'taristocracy, but there seem to be no prejudices against him from anyone.  Why has he come to England, anyway?  Such a lengthy trip is quite an undertaking surely requiring some significant motive, even if he arrived before hostilities broke out.  Would the Bingleys really be so unconcerned at this whirlwind courtship and marriage (less than one month) especially if he recently broke of his courtship of another woman?  If his \\"crying off\\" is taken to mean that he broke an engagement, this would be a serious offense for a gentleman at this time.    I hope this isn't a spoiler, but since mysteries often involve money, maybe not.  Then and now, the inheritance of money within a family is governed by laws that override the effect of wills.  If any substantial amount of money was involved at that time, the families of the bride and groom set up settlements, prenuptial agreements, stipulating the financial obligation of both during the marriage and in the event of death.  Spouses might not inherit from one another, especially if no children were born, although there was usually some legally required or mutually agreed upon support for a widow during her life.  A bride's dowry might return to her family if she died without surviving children, even if her husband had control over it during the marriage. If her family didn't give her the money outright, he might only control the income.  This would all have to be taken into consideration by The Villain(ness).  Part of the action of that seminal mystery, The Moonstone by Wilkie Collins is determined by the terms of a prospective bride's inheritance: her husband would control only the income, not the principle.  [added 12/16/2014: I'd like to criticize myself here.  Even if the dowry was to be returned upon the bride's death, good luck getting it back if it's in America.]    Like another reviewer, I was somewhat bothered by some of the language, enough to look up \\"archeologist\\" in my Oxford English Dictionary.  It is not recorded as being in use until 1824, after the period of this book, although \\"archeology\\" had been in use for centuries, so it's not an impossible usage.  Would have been a nice touch to spell it \\"archaeologist\\", though.    This could be a charming series if the author works a bit on period detail and plotting.  I will certainly read the next volume.	2005-07-21
US	37385132	R2QZEHQOX7H820	0312193750	768116800	The Youngest Miss Ward	Books	3	8	8	N	N	A readable if somewhat melodramatic and mediocre historical novel	This purports to chronicle the hard-times of Harriet Ward, the fourth Ward sister; intimidated by Mrs. Norris, the narrator of Mansfield Park left her out.  The woes of Fanny Price pale in comparison.    I would ignore the attempted connection to Jane Austen, which I view simply as a marketing ploy.  The book has nothing like her wit and has little to do with Mansfield Park, except for background mentions of the doings of the older Ward sisters.    This is a historical novel, not a Regency romance, indeed there is very little romance.  It belongs to the school of historical woe, finding the past harsh and cruel rather than glamorous.   For my taste, it it carried rather to the point of melodrama, more like Dickens perhaps than Austen.  It is possible that all of these things could have happened to one young girl in the space of about 8 years.  Indeed, there are a number of real people whose seemingly undeserved and unrelenting bad luck make one question the existence of divine justice, but it doesn't necessarily make for an effective novel.  Aiken does bring in some interesting complexity as the characters ponder the wisdom and ultimate consequences of unrelentingly idealistic behavior.    Oddly enough, although this book apparently starts in the final months of the American Revolution, none of the characters, not even those emigrating to Pennsylvania and Maryland, seem to notice this event.  They aren't going to English colonies, they are going to the newly formed United States of America!     Not a bad novel, but not something to inspire me to read more Jane Aiken either.	2005-07-21
US	37385132	R39YHWB4ZJEQ8I	0385197934	890228207	Mansfield Revisited: A Sequel to Jane Austen's Mansfield Park	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Mansfield Park Rewritten - The Apotheosis of the Crawfords	Many of Jane Austen readers, while professing great admiration for her works, are unwilling to accept her judgements about such characters as Mary and Henry Crawford.  They don't want to believe that someone can be charming, talented and intelligent without being morally good; that these are qualities, not virtues, and like beauty, are as they do.  I assume that Jane Aiken falls into this category, since the main point of this story seems to be to reimagine the Crawfords as generous and benevolent.   I was wondering why she had introduced such an implausible plotline as the seriously ill Mary Crawford deciding that she wants to be near Mansfield and Fanny Price Bertram, rather then near her sister, Mrs. Grant (who has presumably died in the interim) or her brother Henry.   I have too much sympathy with Fanny to like the reversal of Jane Austen's judgement, but I suppose that many people will enjoy the change, except for those who find the new Crawfords too saccharine.   Aiken tends to lay it on with a trowel.    Given this, the story is competent and reasonably diverting for the most part.  Outside of the Crawfords, Aiken does a good job of maintaining the personalities of the characters that she has appropriated from the original. (Fanny & Edmund only briefly appear.)  Aiken introduces two charming, if slightly too good to be true characters in the person of the substitute pastor and his sister.  Lady Bertram does manage to make a few apropos statements, which may strike some readers as implausibly forceful, but for the most part, she and Pug stay on the sopha.      I find the romances a bit improbable.  It is hard to believe that William Price is so cheerfully accepted by the family of a great heiress, or that he and his fiancee are truly well suited.  The story of Susan's engagement is banal.  It is a poorly developed version of the plot of at least half the preadolescent romances I read as a child.  In several of Aiken's JA sequels I get the feeling that she really isn't interested in writing a romance and the result is this slapdash development.    I wouldn't urge Jane Austen fans to rush out and read it, but if one is looking for something to read, one could do a lot worse.	2005-07-20
US	37385132	R38I1K8AV081KQ	1563383845	113722379	Darwin's Religious Odyssey	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Deserves a wide readership	In the midst of the culture wars over creation versus evolution, this book deserves a wide readership beyond those interested in Darwin as a person and scientist.  This is not narrowly limited to Darwin's personal beliefs, but discusses theological responses to such issues as biblical literalism and the comprehensibility of god.  The focus is on Darwin's period, but Phipps also reaches back to early Christian theologians and forward to present thinkers.  It is, on the one hand, encouraging to see such a passionate middle ground, and on the other discouraging to see that the same battles are repeatedly fought. I wish that I had been steered towards such profound and subtle thinkers during my own crisis of faith.    Darwin is such a major cultural figure and so abundantly documented that it is impossible to do justice to him in a single biography.   I therefore welcome such specialized biographical works, particularly in the hands of someone as careful and thoughtful as Phipps.  I read the book with great interest and have been left with considerable food for thought.    Michael Ruse has written some complementary books on similar topics, including [[ASIN:0674022556 The Evolution-Creation Struggle]].	2005-07-17
US	37385132	R3CKNJWOENLBJC	1573928968	910276903	Final Séance: The Strange Friendship Between Houdini and Conan Doyle	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fascinating book for more than just Houdini - Conan Doyle fans	I was so fascinated by this book that I read it in one evening.  In a narrow sense, the topic is the discussion/debate between Houdini and Conan Doyle about spiritualism that first made them friends and then opponents.   In a larger sense, I think that it has a great deal to say about the human mind and deserves a wide audience.  It is an excellent example of how hard it is to consider objectively such subjects in which people invest so much emotion.  Conan Doyle was so determined to believe that Houdini was a psychic that nothing Houdini said could deter him.    I have thought for a long time about the issue of trust and credibility.  If I would believe someone if they told me that they just saw the bus go by, why don't I necessarily believe them if they tell me that they spoke to a spirit, or god, etc.  As this book illustrates, these are issues which have historically involved some much delusion and deception that it is important to proceed with caution.  (Of course, it would help if all prophets said the same thing.)  I know that I will be thinking about it and quoting it to people for quite a while.    Polidoro is clearly on the side of the skeptics, and makes his affiliations clear up front.  He remains, however, sympathetic to Conan Doyle and clearly admires the latter's kindness, intelligence and generally amiable and honorable character.   Although he sides intellectually with Houdini, he doesn't attempt to cover his arrogance and boasting.    Recommended to everyone, except perhaps, convinced spiritualists, although even they might find it a useful cautionary tale, if not a convincing argument.	2005-07-12
US	37385132	R1ZFQ8OE2XZMZI	0312014511	332987043	Jane Austen: Her Life	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Janeites will want to read this	This book claims to cover a great deal of new material, although I would have to say that it doesn't seem to me to add much to other biographies.  I would guess that a lot of the new material relates to Frank Austen, since the biography begins, somewhat surprisingly, with a several page account of his entry into the Navy.  I would therefore recommend it to Janeites, who will want all the details, but those who have already read a biography and are not terribly interested probably won't find that this rewards the additional reading.  (I am among those who just love details, although this is a bit much even for me.)    Previous biographers, such as Elizabeth Jenkins ([[ASIN:0575038772 Jane Austen: A Biography]]), have portrayed the Austens as a loving and harmonious family.  Recent biographers have challenged this view, sometimes even arguing for serious tension between Jane and her sister Cassandra.  Honan argues for a relatively harmonious group, with some normal dissensions.     I give somewhat mixed marks to the writing.  I find statements such as \\"The deepest purpose of her burlesques was  always to ensure her freedom within the loving group of the Austens ... \\" (p.70) as unverifiable verbiage that adds little to the reading experience.  I don't think that we needed several pages on the actual events of the Battle of Trafalger, although of course it adds to the general historical detail.   On the other hand, Honan's reconstruction of JA's possible thoughts as she agonized over withdrawing from her engagement to Bigg-Withers are quite affecting, even if speculative.   I don't think that I have ever read a more moving account of her courage during her last illness.    The bibliographic citations are frustratingly uneven and incomplete.  Previous biographers have pilloried Edward Austen (Knight) for his failure to offer his mother and sisters a home immediately after his father's death.   Honan claims in passing that he did make such an offer and they declined it.There is no citation for this startling, and in understanding the interactions of the Austens, important statement!  Honan also agrees with Valerie Grosvenor Myers ([[ASIN:185479213X Jane Austen, Obstinate Heart: A Biography]]) in stating that Mrs. Cassandra Austen (JA's mother) was reluctant to get married, but neither cites a source!  This claim suggests a number of interesting possibilities regarding the mother-daughter relationship and JA's own decisions regarding marriage, and is certainly important enough to require substantiation.    One of the reviewers has mentioned that there are numerous errors in the book.  I can't say that I was struck by them, unless the reviewer is speaking of difference in interpretation, but I can't claim to be any expert, either.    Honan includes several family trees and the notes, such as they are, are arranged so as to be easy to find.  There is an index, not as detailed as it might be.  There is a useful review of materials and previous writings on Austen and related topics.    Honan does not like John Halperin's book, [[ASIN:0801823358 The Life of Jane Austen]], which he claims is inaccurate, but it is so far my favorite and the most focussed of the long biographies.   For a short biography, which I like to read before long biographies when available, I recommend Carol Shield's book, [[ASIN:0143035169 Jane Austen (Penguin Lives)]], and Valerie Grosvenor Myer's [[ASIN:185479213X Jane Austen, Obstinate Heart: A Biography]], as a midlength book.   The latter is flawed by a lack of notes.	2005-07-07
US	37385132	RJZJFIGZ8A57J	0312118600	6523775	A Visit to Highbury/Another View of Emma	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The most delightful Austen augmentation that I have ever read!	This is not a sequel to Emma, but an account of events during the same period according to Mrs. Goddard, the headmistress of the school where Harriet Smith has been brought up.   The story consists of letters between Mrs. Goddard and her unhappily remarried sister.   The story is mainly focused on the sister's life, with the events of Emma being recounted by Mrs. Goddard in her letters.    This is, I think, wise.  By choosing a background character, one who is of a lower class than Emma, and using the letter format, Austen-Leigh has avoided most problems with the reader's preconceptions.    The story itself it quite entertaining.  It is not the type of story that Jane Austen herself told, being about middle-aged, non-gentry, but it has a spirit and worldview that I imagine that she would share.    The best part is - there's a sequel!	2005-07-07
US	37385132	R2ZJIOUP97P6GV	067160032X	232805681	The Secret House: 24 Hours in the Strange and Unexpected World in Which We Spend Our Days and Nights	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A fascinating book, not for the squeamish	I don't think that I will recommend this to someone I know who already washes his hands twice before dinner, but if the omnipresence of microbes doesn't freak you out, this is a fascinating book.    This covers the minutiae of daily life, the slight shakings of the entire house when one walks across the floor, the dust mites, the drift of particles around the world, the rain of particles from outer space.    Bodanis also reviews the ingredients and creation of common items: potato chips, toothpaste, lipstick, deoderant, cake mixes, explaining not only how they work, but how much of the processing is purely advertising hype.    The book includes some fantastic special slow-motion, electron-microscope and heat-sensitive photographs.  Be sure to get an edition of the book that includes them; I believe that some editions don't.    One of the most enlightening and educational books that I have ever read!	2005-07-06
US	37385132	R1R8F1X9X8XVAW	0958054355	99903987	Dear Heart, How Like You This?	Books	5	14	16	N	N	One of the best "Anne Boleyn" novels that I have ever read	Anne Boleyn appears in many novels, but most of them are pretty crude productions, rarely written with the nuance and feeling of this one.  Anne, George and Thomas are complex, believable people.  I would rank it next to Norah Loft's [[ASIN:075243943X The Concubine]] and Margaret Campell Barnes' [[ASIN:B0006ARWK0 Brief gaudy hour,: A novel of Anne Boleyn]].    This is actually the story of Thomas Wyatt, Anne's cousin and admirer, recalling his life, intertwined with the Boleyns, recalled just after Anne's execution.  As such, it follows him to Italy and Calais - he sometimes loses contact with Anne for years at a time, or only hears of her at a remove.  Those who are not admirers of Anne may also wish to argue that it allows the author to avoid dealing with some of Anne's less attractive behavior.  It has the advantage of allowing the author to quote a number of his luscious poems.     In contrast to some reviewers that felt that the novel should have stayed more strictly focussed on Anne, I felt that one of its flaws is that it scanted some aspects of Tom's life, such as his relationship with his children.  Mary Boleyn tends to fall out of the story as well.    That said, this was a delightful novel and I would be happy to read more by this author.	2005-07-06
US	37385132	R129GP97VU86A7	0679766766	737084082	Jane Austen: A Life	Books	2	182	212	N	Y	Interesting peripheral material, mediocre to poor biography	I find it impossible to trust any would-be interpreter of Jane Austen who, in her analysis of Pride & Prejudice, writes the line: \\"Her [Mrs. Bennet's] restored faith that Lydia and Wickham will turn out very well is wonderfully brought to pass\\".   This is easily my least favorite among the seven or so biographies that I have read; I was particularly disappointed after marvelous beginning that Tomalin made in describing Jane's birth and earliest life.   I made myself read it a second time in order to be fair.     I am left with the feeling that while Tomalin genuinely admires Jane Austen, she has considerably more pity for her life than sympathy for her point of view.   Ms. Tomalin places a great emphasis on the importance of passion and enthusiasm that I doubt Austen so uncritically shared.  Indeed, Ms. Tomalin has to interchange JA's heroes and villains in order to come up with interpretations of the book that please her, and in several cases, insist that JA got things wrong in her epilogues.   This leads to some odd juxtapositions that fit right in with Tomalin's somewhat overwrought thinking.  Tomalin cannot accept that Marianne could move on and love Colonel Brandon, but she is also upset that Cassandra Austen spent the rest of her life mourning her dead fiance.  Isn't perpetual mourning for a lost love what Tomalin would have Marianne doing, given that Willoughby married someone else?  Consistently inconsistent, Tomalin lambastes Fanny Price for declining to marry someone that she doesn't love (or like or trust), at least while her true love remains available.    Claudia Johnson, in her book [[ASIN:0226401391 Jane Austen: Women, Politics, and the Novel]], has some acerbic and apropos remarks about the tradition of women remaining true to their first love, generally by dying, as Marianne almost did.    Tomalin is apparently one of those who feel that it is not enough of an achievement for Austen to be one of the very few authors who, after two hundred years, remain both critical and popular successes.  No, she wants to convert JA to a heroine suitable for the late 20th century.  This is particularly ironic since she faults the Victorians for their attempts to remake JA in their own image.  She attempts, failing dismally in my case, to convince us that JA had an eventful life.  She turns to posthumous psychoanalysis for this, interpreting eventful as traumatic and finding psychic wounds from the Austens' childrearing techniques.  The book rapidly takes on a whiny quality that I found tedious and annoying.    I comment on this being 52, having been born in 1953.  As such, I can remember when \\"experts had proven\\" that the child is born a blank slate through the present day when parents are held to have little effect on their children's psychological development except for the responsibility to keep them alive and healthy.  I am also well aware that \\"expert\\" child-rearing advice has changed over the centuries, some eras recommend techniques that in other eras were considered certain to produce psychopaths.  (readers might want to read Sarah Hrdy's [[ASIN:0345408934 Mother Nature: Maternal Instincts and How They Shape the Human Species]] or Stephen Pinker's [[ASIN:0142003344 The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature]]).   While my own tastes in childrearing certainly would align more with Tomalin's, I find it foolish and irritating for her to excoriate Mrs. Austen because the Austen children were raised according to the accepted pattern of their day.   (And for all that Tomalin may bring in feminist interpretation, she is clearly engaging in mother-blaming here: all decisions that she doesn't like are charged to Mrs. Austen.) While her arguments of how this affected JA may seem logical, does it make sense when considering that so many other people of the time shared similar experiences?   The reader may want to read Elizabeth Jenkin's arguments in her 1938 book, [[ASIN:0575038772 Jane Austen: A Biography]], that Jane Austen was in fact writing through most of her \\"years of silence\\", as well as David Nokes arguments in his 1997 biography, [[ASIN:0520216067 Jane Austen: A Life]], that Jane was having too good a time to write as much, before accepting Tomalin's explanation of Jane as falling into a severe depression after a repetition of childhood trauma.     I think in her efforts to make JA into a martyr, Tomalin slights her as a social critic.  She also fails to fully appreciate the problems of dependent daughters in interlocked families, the tension between wanting and needing family unity, and the desire for personal autonomy.   I have no doubt that JA keenly felt and resented the disadvantages imposed upon her as a younger unmarried daughter, but this is not a unique problem imposed by her particular family.  The conventions of the time meant that Jane and Cassandra really were financial drains on their family: their society had failed to make any accomodation to the realities of making women financially dependent but expecting companiate marriages.  I wouldn't be surprised if some of the popularity of JA derives from her attention to this double-bind that so many of her female readers shared.      Tomalin sees the effect only on Jane, not on her other family members.  I can sympathize with JA's distress at leaving Steventon, but surely her 72-year old father was entitled to retire?  Her parents spent decades in Hampshire whether they liked it or not because that is where Rev. George Austen's living was - didn't they have as much right to live somewhere else for a change as Jane had stay where she was? Tomalin faults James for not offering his sisters a home independent of his mother; I presume that Jane could have asserted her wishes on the basis of his offer to house all three women, but, independent of Jane's dislike for James' wife Mary, how practical would that have been?  If Jane has lived with James, would Cassandra have been with her or with their mother?  At that time, given their resources, it may have been impossible for Mrs. Austen and her daughters to independently pursue the course that each preferred.   Several solutions suggest themselves, but they all involve Mrs. Austen living as a dependent relation or the brothers Austen coming up with a lot more money.    Tomalin also by this makes JA something of a hothouse flower.  Tomalin makes a point of mentioning servants, but in a somewhat contradictory fashion is arguing that Jane's family should have understood her genius and supported her in the leisured style to which she was somewhat, and would have like to have been even more accustomed.   I would have liked that myself.  How many people have the luxury of choosing quiet or excitement and work or leisure just as they choose?   If JA had lived today, would she have been able to write if she had also been required to earn her own living?    Tomalin has done some wonderful research on peripheral matters such as Austen's neighbors that anyone who is very interested in Austen or her period should find very interesting.  Indeed, has this been written as a book on the associates of the Austens, I would probably have given it 5-stars as long as Tomalin left out her psychologizing.  This includes much more about Jane's cousin and sister-in-law Eliza Hancock than is warranted by her importance in the author's life.  It is very interesting, and I am happy to read it, but it does remain that the real biographical information on JA herself is somewhat scanty compared to other biographies of this length.  I would not recommend this as either a first or only biography.  My own recommendations for biographies so far are Carol Shields (short), [[ASIN:0143035169 Jane Austen (Penguin Lives)]]; Valerie Grosvenor Myers' [[ASIN:185479213X Jane Austen, Obstinate Heart: A Biography]] (moderate length, seriously flawed by a lack of notes); and John Halperin's [[ASIN:0801823358 The Life of Jane Austen]] (long).  Elizabeth Jenkins' [[ASIN:0575038772 Jane Austen: A Biography]] is considered a classic biography, but it can be difficult to get and doesn't strike me as worth the trouble given the other material now available.    The notes are beautifully done so that it is easy to match the note with the citation in the text.  There are also useful family trees and a map of the Hampshire neighborhood of the Austens.  I cannot begin to guess what the logic for arranging the bibliography was.	2005-06-28
US	37385132	R2LTV9ZN59MNBA	0374113262	452208432	Jane Austen: A Life	Books	3	17	17	N	N	An interesting biography with some serious problems	I would tell a reader with an intensive interest in Jane Austen not to miss this.  Nokes takes a contrarian view of some of the major incidents of JA's life, but his arguments are well supported and anyone with a serious interest in JA should at least ponder them.  I wouldn't recommend this as a first-or-only biography of Jane Austen.  If the reader is interested in a book of this length, I urge them to try John Halperin's [[ASIN:0801855098 The Life of Jane Austen]].<br /><br />Nokes does a masterful, almost unparalleled job of weaving together quotes from the papers of the Austens and various associates.  He assures us that he never puts any words into anyone's mouth.  He does, however, freely put thoughts into their heads, some of which are reasonable and some which have no known support.  He also draws little verbal pictures to go along with these, reasonable, perhaps, but more suitable for fiction.<br /><br />Nokes also chooses to begin and end his biography with two imaginative \\"short stories.\\"  Interwoven into Chapter One, \\"Family Secrets\\" is a surprisingly long account of the Hancock family, Jane's aunt Philadelphia Austen and her husband Tysoe Saul Hancock, separated from his wife and daughter as he tries to rebuild his fortune in India.  He ends with an almost entirely imagined account of Francis Cullum, paid caretaker of Thomas Leigh and George Austen.  Since we know very little about Cullum or the health problems of Leigh and Austen, I find this highly judgemental piece absurd, especially in a work that purports to be nonfiction.<br /><br />I like that the book has the running title of the chapter on the left-hand page and the dates on the right.  The Notes fortunately contain the chapter running title as well as the chapter number, so it is relatively easy to match up notes.  The sources, except for manuscripts, are unfortunately scattered throughout the notes - it would be nice if at least major sources were gathered into a bibliography.	2005-06-28
US	37385132	R325S1NVSYQ8HY	1559703873	837758112	Jane Austen: Obstinate Heart	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A solid, focused biography flawed by lack of notes	This is a very good biography for readers who want a fairly straightforward, reliable, moderate length account of Austen's life.   Among the seven biographies that I have read so far, I think that this is the best first choice for readers who want more than Carol Shield's well-done Jane Austen, part of Penquins short biography series, but who don't want to tackle a book as long as John Halperin's Life of Jane Austen, nearly twice the length of this.  Halperin weaves a lot more quotes together to build his narrative,something that I found disconcerting when I was younger, although I like it now.  I leave the reader to determine their own taste.  (As a teenager, I regarded books made up largely of quotes as most people regard books with mathematical formula.)      Myers organizes her work both chronologically and thematically, discussing all of JA's romances and potential romances in one chapter, and then alluding back to them when she returns to chronological order.   She recounts standard interpretations, but allows for some alternatives; she duly records that Mrs. Austen was regarded as a hypochondriac, but notes that her frequent pregnancies may have left her with problems of which we are unaware.    Some of the reviewers have complained that Myers does not contribute any new research, but frankly I think that there are probably few facts to add to what is already know and a readable biography is itself a great accomplishment, and preferable to inventing wild theories to gain a little publicity.  Some other authors that have produced more research into the minutiae of Georgian-Regency life thereby scant JA's life or hare off on tangents that may try some readers' patience.  While I personally adore all this somewhat extraneous detail, it is best preceded by reading a book like this that gives one a solid grounding regarding JA's life.   Others make up for a lack of new information by posthumous psychoanalysis and mindreading, not something that I encourage.    Thereader should be aware that the book is serious flawed by a lack of notes.  I don't know if this was the author's or the publisher's choice.  The book generally accords with what other biographers write, so I am fairly confident of the facts, but when Myers makes an unusual assertion, such as the claim that Cassandra Leigh didn't really want to marry George Austen, this is very irritating.     In all, I think this is a good choice for entering into a study of JA's life, one that can be enriched by reading other books later.	2005-06-27
US	37385132	R2TCBR3HCUPG1K	0801855098	739371006	The Life of Jane Austen	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Not to be missed in studying Jane Austen	There are many biographies of Jane Austen available, but I urge readers to include this one.   One of the most noteworthy features of Halperin's work is that he does not feel the need to idealize Jane Austen.   He therefore enriches his book with information carefully ignored by other biographers.    Austen accomplished the very rare feat of writing books that remain both commercial and popular successes after almost two centuries.  I don't see what else she needs to do to be worthy of our attention, and I am exasperated by futile arguments trying to deny her position as a woman of her class and time.   I am tired of her biographers \\"apologizing\\" or trying to explain away he failure to make direct comments on contemporary politics - her books are probably all the more universal and enduring because she didn't.   Rather than making feeble attempts to tie the Elliot's financial misfortunes to general economic trends (instead of their own fecklessness, which is what I believe Austen intended), Halperin quotes very effectively from Austen's letters to show that she was aware of the political and social life around her.    Halperin also portrays her as a much less pleasant person that most authors care to see.   His Jane is shown in her letters to be often petty and gratuitously mean, heartlessly witty.   The question, which Halperin doesn't really explore, but which might explain some of the discrepancy between the Austens' recollections is, how different was her public persona from her letters to Cassandra?  Were the letters an outlet that helped enable her to be pleasant and civil?   I am personally think that sincerity and frankness can be much over-rated vis a vis civility and consideration, so I wouldn't fault JA as a hypocrite, if this is true.    Halperin also presents her as decidely less fond of children, or at least young children, than other works.  He is ignoring some of the writings about her that are quoted by other authors, but his point of view is well-supported by quotations from her letters.  Particularly in combinations with other writers, the reader is left with a much more complex and nuanced view of Jane.    Overall, the book is well written and readable, and unlike some other biographies I could mention, does not go haring off on tangential subjects.   Halperin also restrains himself from \\"overinterpreting\\" his material, attempting posthumous psychoanalysis and the like.    I am not terribly fond of mixing too much literary analysis with biography, and I disagree with some of Halperin's analysis, but I thought that his review of Mansfield Park with reference to JA's life was very fine and plausible.    I fault this, and all other JA biographies for their treatment of Cassandra Leigh Austen's (Mrs. George Austen's) \\"hypochondria\\".  I have been told in every biography that she was a hypochondriac, but no-one has made a convincing case for it.  The glimpses that one gets of her seem to be of a steady, cheerful, practical woman, not the most likely candidate for hypochondria, although it doesn't rule it out.  I am also quite aware that in previous decades, doctors were much more likely to attribute illnesses, particularly in women, to psychosomatic causes, so I would urge modern biographers to re-examine the evidence.  The most common quote is Jane's statement that she has little sympathy for a head cold unaccompanied by a fever or sore throat, but I think that may say more about the daughter than the mother.  At 52, from my own experience, that of my friends and our parents, I am very aware that there are any number of bodily ills, all the more likely as we reach and pass middle-age, that are not apparent to outside observers, crippling or rapidly fatal, which none the less can cause the sufferer considerable discomfort and inconvenience while draining humor, patience, energy and enthusiasm.   Just to name a few: chronic fatique syndrome, arthritis, pruritis, irritable bowel syndrome, incontinence, hemmoroids,insomnia, digestive problems, etc.  Mrs. Austen would, in addition, be vulnerable to the ills that result from many closely-spaced pregnanacies, including such joys a varicose veins, joint injuries and a variety of gynecological problems.  I would not ordinally fault  Halperin individually, but he does carry it to new depths, finding it unreasonable, perhaps even neurotic, for the 72-year old woman to decide that she was giving up travelling in the slow, jolting, dusty conditions that prevailed at the time.    Despite this last grumble, this is one of my favorites among the seven or so biographies that I have read, and the best of the long biographies.  For those wanting shorter works, I recommend Carol Shields' [[ASIN:0143035169 Jane Austen (Penguin Lives)]] and Valerie Grosvenor Myer's [[ASIN:185479213X Jane Austen, Obstinate Heart: A Biography]].	2005-06-20
US	37385132	RE198O5CDX3XL	0735100314	860991951	Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History	Books	2	20	33	N	N	Vintage Gould, unfortunately	This is what the jaundiced Gould reader has come to expect: lively writing about interesting bits of natural history combined with dubious science, a clutter of pet hobbyhorses and the deconstruction & ridicule of a scientist whom Gould considers to be politically/socially incorrect.  The subject this time is Charles Dolittle Walcott, the discoverer of the Burgess Shale.  One may argue that Gould says some nice things about him, but some of them are by way of arguing that Walcott couldn't have made an honest mistake and must have been deluded.  On the whole, I am reminded of the experienced Senator's advice to call a foolish opponent \\"My learned and distinguished colleague.\\"    I find Gould tiresome, but since I keep coming across criticisms of him in other sources, I feel that I should read his original words before judging him.  I have yet to think that any of his critics was being unfair.  I recommend reading Daniel Dennett's [[ASIN:068482471X Darwin's Dangerous Idea: Evolution and the Meanings of Life]], especially the chapter \\"Bully for Brontosaurus\\" in which he reviews Gould's body of work.    It is easier to ask this now that the classifications done by Harry Whittington, Derek Briggs and Simon Conway Morris (hereafter W, B & CM) have been revised to something more like Walcott's, but why does Gould so readily assume that Walcott was wrong, and was wrong because of his psychology?  Given that Walcott apparently labelled his work as preliminary, and W, B & CM have the advantage of more specimans, and well as decades of improved techniques and further research, why assume that Walcott's family life affected his classifications?  And if Gould wants to maintain that one's political/social/psychological traits affect one's work, why doesn't he feel the need to vet W, B & CM?  Many of Gould's critics would agree that those traits can affect one's thinking, and would hold up one Stephen Jay Gould as a prime example.  Did Gould take his own biases into considerationin writing this book?    I ask the reader's indulgence if this paragraph is dull, but I am following Gould's lead, and this is something that he does a lot.  Gould spends pages fretting over insignificant inconsistencies between Charles Schuchert's 1928 obituary of Walcott and Walcott's diary.  For example, Schuchert says that it was beginning to snow at the end of the Walcotts' 1909 field season, whereas Walcott's diary says that the weather was beautiful.  I think that it is a bit unreasonable to expect Walcott to rise up out of his grave to contradict Schuchert, especially since it makes no difference whether it was raining, snowing, or the sun was shining.  Further, Schuchert could be considered accurate if it had begun to snow in the Canadian Rockies, whether or not it was actually snowing on the Walcotts, or because he was being somewhat metaphorical, and meant only to indicate that it was the time of year when it begins to snow there, and therefore the season has to come to an end for safety's sake, even if exciting discoveries are being made.     But, ok, let's assume the worst.   Walcott, clearly remembering that the weather was beautiful, lied to Schuchert.   And this proves what?   What dastardly scheme is revealed?  What nefarious political/social agenda is furthered? In what important way is the history of science distorted?    Unfortunately, this sort of one-track literalism or failure to consider alternate and sometimes more obvious meanings pervades Gould's work.   Looking backward, for example, one may speak of an evolutionary path, even if there was no path in prospect.   Gould is not satisfied to make sure his readers understand the distinction, no, he sees a wicked failing that he and only he can save us from.  He carries on about right and wrong evolutionary graphics, without considering that what is appropriate depends upon what one wants to show.  Wouldn't a chart exhaustively illustrating evolution have to be painted on the side of a block-long skyscraper?  Isn't describing the Burgess fauna as separate phyla kind of like calling someone a great-grandparent at birth?  In this society, fourth cousins would be considered to be only distantly related, but their great-great-grandparents were siblings.   I find it hard to believe that these specimans are actually more diverse than, say, a whale, a mosquito, blue-green algae, a salmon and a vulture.      I recommend that the reader see Derek E. G. Briggs' book [[ASIN:156098659X Fossils of the Burgess Shale]]  and Simon Conway Morris' [[ASIN:0192862022 The Crucible of Creation: The Burgess Shale and the Rise of Animals]] (also on the Burgess Shale) as well as his [[ASIN:0521603250 Life's Solution: Inevitable Humans in a Lonely Universe]].  In the latter, Conway Morris disagrees sharply with the conclusions that Gould reaches in his last chapter \\"Possible Worlds\\".    An added comment: In [[ASIN:0471974072 The Evolution Revolution]] (1997), Ken McNamara and John Long also address the issue of evolutionary charts of horses.   While they make a similar point to Gould's, They manage to be civil and don't seem to be suggesting that most other scientists are evil-minded dunderheads.    I would have the same answer to them that I have to Gould, Huxley's charts were the more appropriate for what he was trying to demonstrate.     The charts that Gould, et al., would have us use add to one's knowledge of the evolution of horses and related species, but they don't illustrate Huxley's point.	2005-06-09
US	37385132	R1AIZ1HS8HI4CD	0670032786	968675587	Aunt Dimity Snowbound	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Aunt Dimity fans will want to see this	If you like the series, I imagine that you will enjoy this latest installment.   I enjoyed it thoroughly and I like it better than the last couple.  The theme, which I will not reveal lest I give away some of the plot, is certainly one that we all have to deal with.  I will probably be thinking about this for quite a while.      For people who are not familiar with the series, This is the ninth book in this series, the first being [[ASIN:0140178406 Aunt Dimity's Death (Aunt Dimity Mystery)]]. They tend to be so sweet and full of good will as well as the somewhat twee touches of \\"live\\" stuffed animals and ghosts, that I almost feel guilty for liking them.  I've read every one, however, so I tell you only for your information; you presumably know your own taste.  Nancy Atherton does deal with some very deep and important issues along the way; they aren't simply fluff.  The mystery fan may want to be aware that these are not necessarily murder mysteries, and that the main mystery is sometimes in the past.    This is the second cozy mystery that I have read recently, Jeanne M. Dams' [[ASIN:0765308053 Winter of Discontent: A Dorothy Martin Mystery (Dorothy Martin Mysteries)]] being the other, that deals with forgiving crimes committed during World War II - must be the anniversary putting it in people's minds. I found this one much more satisfying.    I am one of the people who finds the main character Lori's roving eye rather annoying.  She is married to Mister Perfect as it is, and she keeps running into and almost falling for another fabulously attractive man every book for the last few books!  This is a less than charming plotline that isn't improved by being overused.  It struck me in this book that one of the reasons that it is so jarring is that so much of the series is a tribute to people who are faithful to their One True Love, even after death.  There are exceptions, but Dimity never married after her fiance's death, Lori's mother never married after being widowed.  Aunt Dimity asserts someone's integrity by stating: \\"he remained faithful to his first love until his own tragic death ... .\\"  It seems particularly shoddy then that Lori can't stay focussed on her own happy marriage.    Thoroughly enjoyable, a series definitely worth trying for fans of cozies.	2005-06-09
US	37385132	R1AODCC8T5B3JB	0449150011	711893393	Dead Duck (Sam and Hollis, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Terrific Eastern Shore series!!	Of the four Maryland series that I am familiar with (Laura Lippman's Tess Monaghan, Tim Cockey's Hitchcock Sewell, and Barbara Lee's Eve Elliott, being the others), this is easily my favorite.      A book with a ghost as a continuing major character could be unfortunately twee, but in Helen Chappell's hands it is sardonically funny.   Chappell manages to make this all seem reasonable. Hollis Ball is an engaging character and it is a pleasure to spend time with her.   The books' humor about various follies of humankind, fanatic collectors featuring in this volume, are extremely amusing.    The book has a very strong sense of place - my branch of the family moved away from the Eastern Shore a couple of generations ago, so I can't pose as an expert, but certainly the local views of what Chappell calls the 3Rs, rich retired Republicans, are dead on.   How clannish are the old Eastern shore families?  Well, my great-aunt and uncle moved from Chestertown to Easton (both on the Eastern shore) shortly after their marriage.  My aunt told my mother that after 55 years in Easton, she felt that they had almost been accepted.   On the other hand, when my parents retired to the Eastern shore, they did find that their connections made them somewhat more acceptable.    Two points that might be considered a weakness. Chappell introduces an African-American States Attorney, but she really doesn't have local Blacks as characters.  Discussing race can get touchy - such a minefield that I'm not sure that I can really fault Chappell for not getting into it in a book that is intended to be light.  I'm not sure how realistic it would be in this case - the de facto separation in some places can be a really strong barrier.      The other is a pet peeve: Chappell keeps referring to the local upper strata as WASPS, Aryans, rich Protestants, etc.  People tend to use WASP as if the \\"W\\" stood for wealthy, but in fact it stands for \\"white\\".  Aren't the Balls WASPS?   There are a fair number of WASCs in Maryland, since it was founded to serve as a haven for English Catholics, but the Balls are Methodist.  Aren't most white people on the Eastern Shore \\"Aryan\\" and Protestant?  I myself am a half-WASP, if you use the word strictly and a whole-WASP in the loose sense, and I get very tired of people using WASP to imply boring, complacent and rich.    Well, tantrum over.  I have found the two books that I have read very enjoyable, and I hope that the series will continue.	2005-06-04
US	37385132	R322UH02T5SWZN	0465090923	534084103	The Way We Really Are: Coming To Terms With America's Changing Families	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Good to a point	'Initially, Ms. Coontz builds a pretty impressive case for her point of view, backing it up with studies and statistics. Alas, about two thirds of the way through she begins to fall down: there is much more opinion and much less evidence.   In most controversies, there is a large middle-of-the-road (MTR)contingent that forms the \\"swing vote\\" and sympathizes to a certain degree with both the extremes. Coontz seems to lose any understanding that she may have had of these people and her arguments accordingly become less likely to sway them. At this point I felt that she wasted all the good that she might have done.     Most people that I know see a difference between, for example, a family needing help because they have lost a bread-winner and one created by parents who not in a position to support their children from the beginning. The first family is seen as having played by the rules and suffered a misfortune and worthy of assistance. The latter parents are sometimes seen as cheats who did not make a reasonable effort to be self-sufficient and suffer the consequences of their actions. The MTRs may accept that it is wiser in long run, particularly given that children are involved, to assist these latter families, but balk at being asked to conceal their disapproval.   I think that Ms. Coontz, and many of her colleagues in the social sciences, need to read up on evolutionary psychology and game theory.  Even if one doesn't accept that human psychology is largely genetically determined, it does help explain the social uses of a lot of behavior.   I can recommend Steven Pinker's [[ASIN:0142003344 The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature]]), which I happened to be reading when this thought hit me, especially \\"Part IV, Know Thyself\\", but there are plenty of other books.  She doesn't seem to think that people respond to incentives and disincentives.      Certainly, we could decide, if we wanted to, that the government would give anyone who has a child an allowance sufficient to raise it, or, perhaps better, deliver services directly to the child, like public school.   But is this to be offered only to certain families or to all families?  It has been argued that, all things being equal, financial assistance to college punishes frugality and savings by giving assistance to people who have no money because they lived lavishly.    Coontz's logic seems to assume that the difference between Have and Have-Not is entirely a matter of luck whereas there are a lot of very unhappy wage-slaves, including me, who are working solely so that we can live a middle-class lifestyle. If that lifestyle is to be conferred gratis upon all comers, then why should we work? Then who will pay taxes to finance the programs Coontz wants? Further, I have read that the largest amount of welfare cheating is done by polygamists, i.e. men who have multiple wives and families that they cannot support. (See \\"[[ASIN:1570717230 The Secret Story of Polygamy]]\\" by Kathleen Tracy.)  The wives make the fictitious claim that their children were fathered by someone who has deserted them and collect welfare. Does Coontz's respect for alternate family lifestyles include supporting polygamy?     The other major flaw, and I nearly threw the book across the room at this, is Coontz's argument that Social Security for childless people is a form of dole. (Let me say here that I don't pay Social Security, except for Medicare, and I'm not eligible to collect it.) She argues this because \\"the average person\\" get more out of Social Security than he/she puts into it.   Well, I should hope so, considering that the government has everyone's money for decades! But even this \\"average\\" is questionable. I've seen this quoted several times, but not with any explanation of how it's calculated.   I am told by someone who worked for the Social Security Administration, that the average is corrected to exclude benefits paid out to persons who may never pay in (such as the earliest beneficiaries and the disabled), but that it is not corrected for inflation, which can make an enormous difference over three or four decades. [added 2/20/11: The government is supposed to be investing Social Security funds to increase the amount available.   Further, Coontz fails to consider the extent to which childless people, like me, subsidize other people's children.   Approximately half my property taxes go to support the local schools; sixty-nine percent of all my county's expenditures are for education.   In addition, I am paying for many programs that benefit children such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (known as WIC), playgrounds for children, reading programs at the library, etc.   I am not objecting to paying any of these per se, I am only objecting to Coontz's tacit claim that assistance is a one way street for the childless.]  I finished feeling very disgusted with Coontz, because having read the better parts of her book, I find it difficult to believe that this was an \\"innocent mistake.\\"	2005-06-04
US	37385132	R1N8G2XEEFEEVD	0310241448	911984495	The Case for a Creator: A Journalist Investigates Scientific Evidence That Points Toward God	Books	3	13	20	N	N	A Journalist talks to scientists whose views support his.	It's always a little tricky reviewing a book when I know that I am not neutral on the subject - I feel that I should review it partly in its own terms, to give other readers some idea of how they might like it.  I debated for a long time between whether to give it 3 or 4 stars.   I read a great deal on evolution, but I do not claim to have the breadth of scientific knowledge to judge the science in all cases.  Strobel particularly aims this book at people who found that science undermined their religious faith.  (This is not my situation.)    On the side of 4 stars: The title makes it very clear that the author has a particular agenda, and since I claim to be in favor of freedom of speech, I am all for people honestly expressing and supporting their views, even if an annoying number of them disagree with me.  I think that it is valuable to have this point of view expressed, even if the reader is only planning to knock it down.   It is unfair to complain that his treatment is not balanced - he is pretty up front about the fact that this is a book of advocacy (but see the next paragraph.)  Strobel also has the honesty to spell out what he means by Intelligent Design, unlike many ID supportors, like Phillip Johnson.   (I like Johnson less every time I think about him.)  In the desire to avoid religious connotations, Intelligent Design is usually left so vague as to be almost vacuous.  I was gripped by some of the chapters, whether by the science or by Strobel's tale of his 1974 reportage on a debate over teaching that is presented.   The chapters are somewhat uneven, Behe chooses to be annoyingly obtuse about some of the objections that have been raised to his reasoning, e.g., Kenneth Miller's comments on his mousetrap metaphor.  I have to suppose that he has no real answer.   Strobel has helpfully appended a list of further reading to each chapter.    Knocking it down to 3 stars.  There is a whiff of the weasel hanging over this.   I have no objection to Strobel acting as an honest advocate; I only object to his trying to dupe us into thinking he's really entering into this in the open-minded spirit of inquiry.  \\"Investigates\\" is used somewhat loosely in the subtitle as it stands - my review title is a suggestion for a somewhat more accurate subtitle.  I take, with a grain of salt, his statement: I would stand in the shoes of the skeptic ... posing the toughest objections that had been raised.\\"   I think that should be, \\"I would feed them straight lines to make sure that they covered the topics/objections that I had in mind.\\"   Strobel also uses the \\"demon word\\" Darwinism a bit broadly.   Naturalism or materialism is a property of science generally, not just Darwinism, therefore the belief that the Universe arose through naturalistic mechanisms is probably believed by most Darwinists, but it's a bit doubtful that it can properly be considered a particular tenet of Darwinism per se.  This raises some interesting issues about the science that Strobel et al. accept and the science that they don't.  If it could be proven that Prokaryotes were created by an Intelligent Designer, but from that point all other life forms developed through Darwinian evolution, one could still argue that Darwinism is basically correct.    On to the proofs.  Fascinating as some of the science is, the evidence for Creation or Intelligent Design is not really scientific, it is what I personally call Unaided Logic.  This is, for the most part, what classical philosophy does - arguments that are logical but which cannot or are not tested against reality.   There have been numerous charming hypotheses that have gone aground on the shoals of testing.  In Chapter 7, Gonzalez and Richard argue that there is a long list of factors that had to be just right in order for life to exist.  While it may be true that if only one of them varied, life on Earth would be impossible, it could still be true that if, say, five of them varied together, different but still life-supporting conditions would prevail; we have way too little data.   (I have little patience with anyone who claims that there definitely is/is not life on other planets or produces unsupportable equations demonstrating the likelihood.)  It is true that on a number of issues, Strobel's opponents don't have scientific answers, but neither do his experts.  Maybe we just don't know.   I am not impressed by elimination arguments, i.e., \\"If I knock down other theories, you have to believe mine.\\"  We are still generally left with \\"In my opinion, this is the most reasonable explanation\\" posing as \\"This is an unbiased scientific fact.\\"  I am unimpressed with the kalam argument, a more sophisticated version of the Unmoved Mover argument, since I could just as well state as my premise that we don't know of any things in our experience which do not come into being, and we should therefore assume that there is nothing outside of our experience that does.  I use Unaided Logic at times and while it may be reasonable, rational, logical and useful, I don't kid myself that it is scientific.    Soap box: I want to thank Zondervan or Strobel, whoever is responsible for the format of the notes.  The running title is Chapter X: [Chapter title] and each section of notes is topped by the same title.  Makes it very easy to match up the citations with the quotes.	2005-05-25
US	37385132	R1Q9ASO9JLFUP6	0786713496	55681502	The Harper's Quine: A Medieval Murder Mystery	Books	5	42	42	N	Y	Happily, this is the FIRST Gil Cunningham mystery	This is an accomplished mystery with a strong sense of history and character.  The writing is quite polished, especially for a first novel. <br /> <br />The setting is Glasgow in 1492.   The intriguing adventures of the young lawyer, soon to be priest, allow the reader to view a wide section of Scotland - servants, nobles, impoverished gentry.  The story touches on points of Scottish law and the intricacies of marital finances, the travels of young scholars, the mingling and separation of lowlander and highlander. <br /> <br />There was a cast of interesting and likeable characters that I look forward to meeting again.  The only disappointment is waiting for the second book.	2005-05-21
US	37385132	R2HIJM0EMCYXFI	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	3	8	12	N	N	The biochemistry is great, the Darwinism fuzzy	What a joy is was for me to be reading Appendix A and the explanations of various cellular functions and structures.  Endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi bodies, chemical cascades - it has been so long since I even thought about them and it was like discovering old friends.       Behe does a wonderful job of handling his descriptions of cellular structures and activities.  He goes into a lot (although not exhaustive) detail in order to impress upon the reader just how complex these things are.   The explanations are helpfully set off by symbols, so that the reader can skim, if they are content to just take in that yes, these are VERY complicated.  Behe's love for the topic shines through and when he is on these topics he writes with clarity and affable charm.    A raspberry to his publisher for the notes, however.   As is far too commmon, if one wants to look up notes, the chapter is identified on the page only by name, but in the notes only by number.   The reader has to keep flipping back to the beginning of the chapter for the number.  Either include the number in the running title or the title in the notes!! How hard is that? Off the soap box.    I'm not a biochemist, so I will take Behe's word for it that the origin of these microstructures and biochemical processes is poorly understood.  He goes to a great deal of trouble to establish this.   He's right that it is a challenge to Darwinism - will they be able to include explanations in the current theory, will Darwinism be retained for multicellular animals but require an extension (like Einstein's extension of Newton), or will it be replaced by a new unified theory?  I don't know.  I am not convinced that Behe has proven his hypothesis though.  I think that he should have taken a lesson from the Darwin/Dawkins discussion of the evolution of the eye.  True, that explanation does not cover the biochemical and microbiological aspects, but it does answer the question on the level that it was posed.  The anatomy of the eye was once considered to be irreducibly complex and clearly it is not.  Whether or not one believes in Darwinism, it remains that eyes more primitive than ours work just fine for their owners.  I think that it is early days to assume that no-one will ever be able to explain his \\"black box\\" without a designer.    It is not clear to me what Behe means to say about Darwinism.  He starts off on the wrong foot with me in the preface by saying that \\"for over a century\\" most scientists have accepted evolution by natural selection, when in fact Darwin's ideas have stood up to extremely harsh scientific criticism, and around 1900 were pretty much considered to be dead.  This is one of the things that gives me confidence in the theory.      Large sections of the book, especially Chapter 10 & 11 leave me rather baffled as to their point.  I couldn't say by the end whether Behe opposes Darwinism or grants it limited acceptance.  Behe takes strong exception to Richard Dickerson's somewhat lighthearted remarks on science, and I really cannot understand why.  Perhaps Behe should explain his view of science.      I am quite puzzled as to what Behe means to say about Intelligent Design, he hems and haws.   Would he consider both a personal god and experimenters from another planet to qualify equally as possible designers?   In both cases, one closes the issue of the origin of life on earth only to open the even more problematic case of the origin of the designer.   I'm willing to accept it as a hypothesis, although I freely admit I think it's unlikely.  Behe is quite right when he says that it needs to be developed and researched rigorously if it is to be taken seriously, but I can't square that with his assertion that it is already proven.  He fudges on the issue of examining the Designer(s) \\"under the microscope\\", claiming that we can't put our ancestors under the microscopes.  Ah, but we do, both directly (examining fossils and bones) and indirectly (comparing biochemistry).  Hecan insist all he likes that design is the only sensible solution, but that's not proof.  Science has discarded lots of hypotheses that once seemed sensible.  Proving that Darwinism doesn't work at this level does not, in and of itself, prove that Intelligent Design is correct.  It needs to stand by its own positive evidence.    I have embarked on a program of reading books on the creation/evolution controversies; this is number 3.  (I already read a lot on evolution, including all of Dawkins' books.)  This is definitely superior to Phillip Johnson's [[ASIN:0830813241 Darwin on Trial]].    Readers may be interested to know that Lee Strobel's [[ASIN:0310240506 The Case for a Creator: A Journalist Investigates Scientific Evidence That Points Toward God]] includes an interview with Behe.  Kenneth R. Miller, a fellow biochemist, undertakes a very spirited criticism of Behe in his [[ASIN:0060930497 Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search for Common Ground Between God and Evolution]].  I also recommend [[ASIN:0262661659 Tower of Babel: The Evidence against the New Creationism]] by Robert T. Pennock, which contains some criticism of this book, and Mark Perakh's somewhat vituperous [[ASIN:1591020840 Unintelligent Design]], which takes on ID from the perspective of mathematics and information theory, as opposed to the more common biological arguments.    The latter is especially useful as a guide to other sources, including websites, discussing Behe's work.	2005-05-20
US	37385132	R2XB1F5WXDR263	081292150X	971059126	The Deaths of Sybil Bolton: An American History	Books	2	3	7	N	N	A disappointing look at a tragic and  fascinating period	Reading the history of Native American - European-American relationships (among other things), I have given up the idea that there is any bottom to the depths of human depravity.   Here we have another episode in the ongoing belief that Native Americans have no property rights, no human rights ... . <br /> <br />Unfortunately, a book that I opened with great anticipation founders on the author's self-pity and editorial incoherence. <br /> <br />McAuliffe manages to feel terribly sorry for himself for someone who ignored his Native American heritage into his 30s.  He doesn't actually know too many Osages, but he takes everything that happened to them very personally.  This is all about him.   Does he think that these injustices matter only because HE happens to be part Osage?   I was hoping that his new attention to his Native American heritage would give him some insight into the issues of creating multicultural history, but it doesn't. <br />McAuliffe convinces me that his grandmother was murdered, but his solution is confused.  He starts out with one suspect, and somewhat abruptly switches to another without bothering to rewrite the relevant parts of the book.  I cannot help but suspect that this is in deference to his mother's feelings, and he never builds a convincing picture of his grandparents' relationship.   He actually has very little evidence for his final suspect.  Sure, it's a plausible scenario, but there are a few problems and there is no actual evidence. <br /> <br />A waste of a potentially very powerful book.	2005-05-17
US	37385132	R13LVAMXYB7U1L	045121188X	823828436	A Distinction Of Blood: A Mystery of Georgian England	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A mystery series with a strong historical setting	These Georgian era mysteries are exceptionally vivid with a feel for the details of the period that goes beyond aristocratic dress and manners.   March moves confidently through various levels of society including such lesser known events as the enclosures, slavery, and the controversial rise of Methodism.   Her characters are well drawn and generally very believable.   <br /> <br />One caveat that I have, not so much a criticism of the writing as a piece of information for readers, March has no qualms about breaking the reader's heart by killing off likable victims by murderers seemed appealing and whose crimes seem almost like a betrayal of trust.  The solving of the crime doesn't necessary solve all the characters' problems; there is sometimes an aching sense of futility.   I assume that readers know their own tastes. <br /> <br />I recommend this series to people who like novels that are as much historicals as mysteries.	2005-05-17
US	37385132	R14S4RNZBI2EJX	0312869940	223175438	White Rose	Books	2	9	10	N	N	I guess it's not a trilogy anymore	This book ends so abruptly that I examined the end papers to make sure that I wasn't missing a one-page chapter.   The author doesn't even tie up the loose ends in this volume, let alone the series which I had understood to be projected as a trilogy.  I was seriously torn between one star and two.    I suppose that reading this book must be different for people who are familiar with the historical period and people who are not.   Edward is presented as a bit more innocent and romantic than I imagine him as actually being, but I'm willing to accept it, he is pretty young.   His personality actually gets a bit of retroactive revision in this volume.   I kept reading the series because of the suspense of wondering whether the author was going to keep to the established history or finish with an alternative history.   Well, it wasn't resolved in this book, and I am not certain that I care enough to read any more.   The advice that Robyn receives to name her daughter Grace is a tip-off.      The books have been kind of fun, although not particularly good historical novels.  I enjoy the juxtaposition of the two eras and Robyn's reactions.   Making her a Miss Montana expert equestrian was a brilliant decision that makes her adventures more believable.   The Middle Ages are a bit romantized, even if she doesn't find the era a bit smelly, I'd be longing for running water and flush toilets.   Particularly incredible is Robyn's use of laptop computer to keep her diary.  Even assuming that it didn't upset the locals, what fabulous batteries she must have!  I also find it hard to believe that anyone who is as familiar with Shakespeare as Robyn is (she quotes Henry V's speech just before Agincourt from memory) knows so little about this era.  She has apparently completely missed the Henry VI and Richard III plays.   The witchcraft/religion angle is a bit problematic as well, although I'm willing to accept it for the sake of the story.    It is the source of some wonderful scenes,but I'm having a little trouble with Robyn's sincere, simultaneous adoption of witchcraft and medieval Catholicism.   I see the parallels, but it still seems a trifle awkward, especially since both are new to Robyn.   If she had been a modern Goddess worshipper, or a really, really ecumenical Christian, it would seem a little more likely.    The writing is extremely varied: sometimes Garcia y Robertson manages extremely vivid characterizations and descriptions, and other times it is pretty lame.   Each novel seems to get a little more torrid, which I don't find an improvement: there is a very formulaic quality to a lot of it.    Some people argue that romance is a product of western courtly love conventions, but I believe that it is part of the human condition.   The problem is that there are different types of romance and I don't think that Garcia y Robertson has cobbled together the right bits, especially from Edward's point of view.   Robyn is neither an Arthurian lily maid nor a scornful courtly love idol that she should inspire Edward to immediately determine on marriage to someone who would be so completely unacceptable by contemporary standards.  (Actually, strictly speaking, the courtly love idol was married to someone else, but I think that requirement was often ignored.)  I presume that the author hopes that people who know Edward's history will know that he did, as king, make a marriage that created a scandal, but even that was to a woman of a known gentry background with royal connections, and one who refused to sleep with him.       There is of course, basic chemistry (which I believe is universal), and the solution in that era would have been concubinage, such as the relationship that Edward's great(s)-uncle John of Gaunt enjoyed with Katherine Swynford while he was married to his second wife.   Edward never even suggests it, and especially considering Robyn's objections to being Queen and her freewheeling 21st centuries attitudes, it seems like a natural solution.   It would be a little more plausible if Edward proposed the arrangement and Robyn was too jealous to accept it.    All in all, I think this is wearing a little thin.	2005-04-29
US	37385132	R33MSHXFR5W51O	0425200183	676150719	The Widow's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A top-notch entry in an excellent series.	This is one of my favorite series and this novel is as good as any that Frazer has written.   Both her continuing characters and her new characters are interesting and well developed.   The mystery is well done, and the story is wrenching but believable.  (This is one of the saddest stories that I have ever read.) <br /> <br />I would recommend this series to fans of Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael.  Of all the series that have been likened to his, this is probably the closest in spirit.   The characters are believably Medieval and Frevisse is a nun with a real vocation; the spirituality of the characters is portrayed very well - deep and real but not saccharine.	2005-04-22
US	37385132	R1FGCPBGU0MGZG	1566632811	599205061	Dawning of the Raj: The Life and Trials of Warren Hastings	Books	3	9	9	N	N	An interesting miscellany, not a successful biography	Most of this book is interesting, but it is very cursory either as a biography of Warren Hastings or as a history of the beginning of the Raj.  It contains a lot of marginally relevant information that I enjoyed reading, but which doesn't contribute enough towards the alleged main purpose of the book to explain the number of pages devoted to it.   If this were an exhaustive multi-volume work, I might understand why it includes so much information on George Bogle, Robert Oppenheimer and Fanny Burney, but as it is, the biographical information on Hastings is skimpy and some of it is repetitive.   There are two somewhat contradictory stories of one duel, separated by a number of pages without any apparent recognition that they don't quite fit together.    The book opens with a chapter on Bogle's trip to Tibet at the direction of Hastings.  This shows something about Hastings' activities in India and his breadth of mind, but Bernstein carefully chronicles Bogle's childhood, family, etc., in a surprising amount of detail.  Intriguing, but not precisely part of the main story.    Hasting's early life is chronicled in appropriate detail, but once he reaches adulthood, I am baffled as to exactly what he did and why he was made Governor-General.   The story moves in a series of brief hops from Hastings' first employment to India quickly to his quarrels during his administration with other members of the Company.   There is very little detail in between.   Bernstein chronicles the events that would figure in his trial, but I am left with no coherent picture of Hastings' tenure nor his significance in the shift from the East India Tea Company's dealings with India to the official takeover by the British government.   I found most of these chapters rather dull because I could make little sense of them.   Were Hastings' activities actually important in the shift, or was he, as Bernstein seems to suggest in his discussion of the trials, simply seized upon as a pawn to pursue political ends that had little to do with him as an individual?    Fanny Burney seems to occupy more of the book that Mrs. Hastings or Eliza Hitchcock, Hasting's goddaughter and supposed illegitimate daughter, who had a continuing relationship with him.   I have learned far more about the latter from biographies of Jane Austen, Eliza's cousin and sister-in-law.  Burney's life is carefully explained in unnecessary, though enjoyable  detail.  It is interesting that she wrote about the trial, but why this requires more than a passing reference is beyond me.       Bernstein compares the treatment of Hastings to the travails of J. Robert Oppenheimer.  Why, I am not sure.  I am an American, and 52; frankly, while I have heard a great deal about Oppenheimer and the atom bomb, I was totally unaware of his problems with Congress.   They occurred when I was a small child.  If Bernstein thinks that he is illuminating Hastings' situation by comparing it with Oppenheimer's, I believe that he is mistaken: I don't think that enough people are aware of the details of the latter case.   Perhaps Bernstein thinks that we ought to be more knowledgeable, but that's another book.   (And that book would be [[ASIN:0375726268 American Prometheus: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer]], by Kai Bird and Martin J. Sherwin.)    The explanation of the trial itself is interesting, especially for its essential pointlessness.   Bernstein seems oddly puzzled that after four years, Hastings changed his mind about how he would like the trial conducted - I think it was obvious, Hastings wanted to get it over with!  The trial was conducted in small installments over a period of seven years with the result that very few of the Lords determining Hastings' fate had heard all the evidence.  I read this part and the epilogue on his latter years with great interest.    I can't say reading the book was a waste of time: there was a lot of interesting material.   It was a disappointment as a biography,however, which was why I wanted to read it.	2005-04-22
US	37385132	R1ATTVFV6SFNXS	0380810336	336941448	Feeling Good: The New Mood Therapy	Books	2	98	127	N	N	If you find this helpful, I'm glad, but I loathed it.	I separate discussion of this book into two parts: general life philosophy versus treatment for depression, which I will deal with later.   One over-arching statement that I would make is that Burns (and a lot of other social science experts) would benefit greatly from reading up on evolutionary psychology and game theory.  Even if one doesn't accept that much of psychology is inborn and universal, they provide insight into the social uses, such as the maintainance of reciprocity, of \\"shoulds\\", \\"should-nots\\" and retaliation.    General Life Philosophy  On the positive side, everyone needs a certain amount of what this book is peddling, that is, the ability to intellectualize and gain objectivity about one's feelings.   I do think, from experience, that one can learn a certain amount of desirable control over one's emotions but it is a lot of work, and calling it \\"choosing\\" one's emotions is too glib and flip.      Unfortunately, it is possible to do this too much, and while this is exactly what some people need, I think that it might be disastrous for people who have weak \\"boundaries\\" or problems with assertiveness.  It cuts the ground from under their feet by claiming that they have no right to expect certain things from other people, like fidelity from a spouse or consideration from other family members.   I suspect that this would effectively prevent them from doing anything to solve their problems other than effacing themselves.        Although he would deny it, Burns is saying that anyone who is angry, sad, hurt, etc., is the problem, there is never anything justification for their feelings.  Therefore, the solution is always to change one's feelings, not one's situation.  Burns gives the example of someone who is feeling dissed because he is getting bad service in a restaurant.  Burns helps him understand that the waiter may be distracted, and therefore the patron shouldn't take it personally.  That's fine as far as it goes, but what if the diner isn't feelingdissed, just hungry?  I would recommend asking what happened to the order, not sitting there trying to convince oneself that it is unreasonable to expect a restaurant to serve a meal.  He also ignores the relationship between the interacting parties.  It's fine to ignore a pushy stranger that one may never see again.  A bully that one has to work with needs to be dealt with.    Sometimes, one needs to learn to harness negative emotions to create the drive to make situational changes.  Further, to me, although I presume not to Burns, there is a difference between accepting that one must make the best of a bad and unchangeable situation and asserting that there is no such thing as a bad situation, just bad reactions.   One might decide, for various reasons, not to divorce an unfaithful spouse, but that doesn't mean that they are not behaving badly, or that one does not have the right to decide to end the relationship.    This book then has a very common problem: the assumption that there is one solution to life's problems that works in all situations and for all people.  Another problem with these systems of dealing with interpersonal behavior is that they are rarely universal and obvious.   They may work fine if all the interactors share the same assumptions and follow the same etiquette.  Otherwise, the person/people using the system need to recognize that only they have decided to make this change and the reactions of others are yet to be determined.   I suspect that if one unilaterally practiced Burns' advice, one would end up taking complete responsibility for all of one's relationships, since Burns argues that if one is unhappy, it is because of bad thoughts that one needs to eliminate.   Meanwhile, everyone else is free to assert their wants/needs.    This idea of \\"other people don't make you angry (sad, happy, etc.), you make yourself angry, etc.,\\" also implicitly says that people's reactions are totally unpredictable and one cannot learn ways of behaving toward other people that are more effective.   There are, and I suspect, have to be, social norms for interpersonal conduct, however ambiguous and contradictory they may sometimes be.  In a society like this, people are generally held to be free to renegotiate private arrangements, but I don't think that societies and relationships can function without expectations.  In fact, if one refrains from gratuitously insulting people and learns to share, one will probably get along better with other people.  It is certainly tricky deciding/negotiating what is a reasonable expectation, but I don't think that this book helps.        Along this line, I dislike the book's amorality.  I gather by Burns' remarks that I am not the first person to suggest this, but if our distress over a partner's infidelity is caused by our \\"choice\\" to be upset, not by their action, then it logically follows that it doesn't matter how we behave.   The reaction of other people is their \\"choice\\" and how are we to know how they will react?   If we mug someone, then it is their \\"choice\\" to be upset at being injured and robbed, why should we be hauled into court?    I have also found that no-one I know who spouts this philosophy actually lives it.   The trainer who was supposed to be teaching my office to get along better through these techniques threw a tantrum when someone asked a \\"disrespectful\\" question that I thought was very germane.   If a person does not personally live by this advice, it may seem rather callous when it is recited to other people.    Dealing with Depression  I can well believe that this book can be very helpful for people dealing with anxiety: maybe they can learn not to worry about what may never happen.    As to dealing with depression, the supposed focus of this book, I don't think that this will help for serious cases.  Burns tells us that one of his patients simply got up and ran out of his office without saying good-bye.  He was puzzled by this, but I find it perfectly understandable.  Yes, this kind of thing and various other little tricks can help when one is a little down or in a funk or feeling whiny or slightly anxious.  This type of thinking sometimes depresses me further since it could be taken as implying that if I am not happy now, I never will be.  Moreover, I am skeptical that severe depression results from the kind of \\"negative\\" thinking that Burns is dealing with here.  Burns has now started including discussions of psychoactive drugs in his books, which I consider to be a sort of admission that this is true.    The reader might also want to consult Alan Downs' [[ASIN:0312307969 The Half-Empty Heart: A Supportive Guide to Breaking Free from Chronic Discontent]], which focuses on dysthymia, chronic or minor depression, which Downs call chronic discontent.  In his appendix, he argues that studies have shown that cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) such as Burns recomends is not effective since dysthymia rises from an inability to handle the emotions of relationships, not from self-defeating beliefs.	2005-04-16
US	37385132	R7L54TQ3DPVJS	B0006AQCJM	890366926	The bachelor,	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Hyacinth Bucket's aunt during World War II	Stella Gibbons is most famous for [[ASIN:0143039598 Cold Comfort Farm (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)]], which was made into a movie ([[ASIN:B00009IB1D Cold Comfort Farm]]).   This is a tale with a slightly lower-key version of her very dry, quirky humor.   Set in England during World War II, it is reminiscent of Jane Austen in not really being about the momentous events going on at the time, but is rather a comedy of manners about how people cope with life - that it happens to be during this particular time merely sets some of the details.    The tale begins with the invasion of Bairama, a fictitious mountainous Eastern European country comprising a pastiche of all the motifs familiar to that region - proud, ferocious mountaineers who seem to be a unique amalgam of Muslim and Eastern Orthodox Christianity.   Prior to the invasion, Varhouti Annamatti has gone to England as a refugee and goes to work at rural house occupied by a middle-aged brother and sister.       The book sends up a number of the intellectual trends of the time.   (And this time as well.) The sister's ardent internationalism (she feels that it is her duty to ignore the unfortunate unpleasantness, i.e. WWII), supplies a great deal of the humor, especially her attempt to force her unfortunate associates into putting on the play \\"Little Frimdl and the Peace Reindeer\\".   Her cousin, meanwhile, prides himself on being a socialist with an aristocratic upbringing.       The sister, apparently a xenophilic aunt of Hyacinth Bucket of \\"Keeping up Appearances\\", is so self-centered as to be unable to understand that she is selfish, and tyrannizes her brother and a variety of relations who move through the house during the story.  Except Varhouti.   The resulting clash turns their lives upside down.    This may not be for everyone - one does have to be able to appreciate Gibbons' decidedly off-beat amd irreverant humor, but I found it extremely funny.	2005-04-03
US	37385132	R1HTVCWEAWGIJC	0691050066	391529024	Janeites : Austen's disciples and devotees	Books	3	12	14	N	N	By academics, about academics, for academics.	If the reader believes the descriptions of this book and the introduction by Deirdre Lynch, they are probably expecting essays that chiefly deal with non-academic fans of Jane Austen.  They don't, especially not with contemporary fans.  Knowing that the authors are mainly academics, I don't mark this down for the often impenetrable writing, although I think \\"publish-or-perish\\" has a lot to answer for, but I wouldn't have read this if I had known what it actually was.    Lynch's essay is one of the better pieces in the book, and the non-academic may be amused by her rueful acknowledgement that unauthorized laity are reading and forming opinions without guidance from the experts.    If the authors meant to study lay readers, I would have thought that they would have started with the Jane Austen societies.   Lynch mentions the \\"Republic of Pemberly\\" website, but none of the authors consult it.  The essays deal almost entirely with the opinions of critics and other literary figures such as E.M. Forster.      The authors would also have been well-advised to read Natalie Taylor's [[ASIN:0141001925 The Friendly Jane Austen: A Well-Mannered Introduction to a Lady of Sense and Sensibility]], which divides the fans into four different main groups.  Most of the authors take a very narrow view of what people enjoy in their reading.   One writes about \\"Americanizing\\" Jane Austen; it apparently never occurs that one might not need to do that to enjoy a foreign author.   One also doesn't have to identify with the gentry of Austen's books to identify with their common human feelings, desires and frailties.    There are some interesting snippets about early readers, lending libraries, Virago press authors, the movies, etc., but it is often buried in rambling academese and much is discussed elsewhere.   Picking apart the details of books can be fun when it is done with the flair and wit of John Sutherland's [[ASIN:0192838849 Who Betrays Elizabeth Bennet?: Further Puzzles in Classic Fiction (Oxford World's Classics)]], alas, he is not one of the authors.  The piece on Edward Said's view of Jane Austen was one of the best essays, but again, what has this to do with lay Jane Austen fans?    I am sure that many academically-minded people would enjoy this book, but it is misleadingly described.	2005-03-28
US	37385132	R1N905LVJ8X8G1	0521827043	601821853	Life's Solution: Inevitable Humans in a Lonely Universe	Books	4	14	23	N	N	A fascinating examination of convergence and contingency.	Conway Morris' book, by his own description, is a sandwich. The meat of the book, which is very impressive, explores convergence in evolution. His conclusion is one that I admit that I was predisposed to favor, that the results of evolution are dependent on the requirements of the niche that the life form moves into, not random, unrepeatable contingencies. As I learned in my junior high school science class, and ever since, variations may be random, but natural selection isn't.  \\"Evolution\\" is sometimes used a little too broadly in the sense of a history of life. A meteor strike may be a contingency that affects the situation that living beings have to deal with, but it is not, itself, a part of evolution in a strict sense. Rather, evolution is the process by which survivors will adapt to changed circumstances, or go extinct. Conway Morris makes an impressive argument that the results will be similar for similar needs and often, that there are no strikingly different alternatives.  I predict that this will lead to a great deal of squabbling over how alike \\"alike\\" is. Conway Morris makes it clear that while he expects that our niche would be filled by another culture-bearing, language using, large-brained species with similar fine motor skills, he isn't necessarily requiring a primate. He also accepts that there may be bottlenecks, such as getting life started in the first place, but he is arguing that given the chance to proceed, evolution will always create similar results. I am convinced, and humbled by the breadth of his knowledge and research.     Stephen J. Gould comes in for a lot of well-deserved criticism, and his fans will not be happy.    Conway Morris is one of the scientists whose work was discussed in Gould's [[ASIN:039330700X Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History]], and CM's take on the matter is quite interesting.     Alas, to continue the sandwich metaphor, one piece of the bread is a bit stale and the other downright moldy. Thebeginning chapters deal with the difficulties and probabilities of creating life in the first place. These chapters are mostly quite interesting - Conway Morris feels that the getting life to start developing may be extremely difficult under any circumstances and that present explanations are inadequate. My cavil with him in these chapters is that he goes on to declare that life is unlikely anywhere else. I have little patience with people who declare that almost certainly there is/is-not life elsewhere in the universe. Talk about hypothesizing in advance of your data! I am all for throwing around ideas, some of the most exhilarating books are those in which the author admits that it is impossible to reach firm conclusions, but still explores possibilities. Go ahead and guess: my guess is that somewhere else there is life, just because it's a big universe and it strikes me as unlikely that anything is truly unique. But that's just my guess, it doesn't make it to the dignity of scientific hypothesis. To reach a definite conclusion on the likelihood of a poorly understood process in scantily observed situations is nonsense.       The moldy slice is Conway Morris' \\"theology of evolution\\". I'm not actually sure what this is; in stark contrast to his review of convergence, he puts all of his energies into ill-supported attacks on his opponents, not developing his own ideas. Atheists (of which I am one) and agnostics can't win for losing - if they are cheerful, they are arrogant and amoral, if they are depressed, they \\"prove\\" the emptiness of their world view.  Conway Morris' arguments seem to boil down to the assumptions that it is \\"obvious\\" that the world is going to hell in a handbasket, that atheists and agnostics are worse people than believers. Since the overwhelming majority of Americans believe in a god, it is a little hard to understand why we have such a high murder rate in that case, but Conway Morris isn't interested in examining facts.   I would not think itwould need repeating that people who are pious and behave irreproachably within their own society have a long track record of barbarism towards outsiders, often murdering and pillaging with the serene mind that comes from confidence that one is acting with the blessing of God.  Being a believer in freedom of speech and religion, I don't fault Conway Morris or Richard Dawkins for being open about their views.   I seriously doubt that science is capable of proving or disproving deity(s), but I am confident that it hasn't done either at this point; vicious personal attacks from either side under the guise of science are shameful.  I don't think that Conway Morris does his notions any favor in this angry, poorly-argued section. If he really feels that they are important, then I think he should do them justice of developing them with the care that he developed his ideas on convergence.    Added August 9, 2010.  In view of Conway Morris' attacks on the morals of atheists and agnostics, I would recommend that he, and indeed, anyone interested in the topic read Phil Zuckerman's [[ASIN:0814797237 Society without God: What the Least Religious Nations Can Tell Us About Contentment]].  He points out that in Denmark and Sweden, religion is almost entirely ceremonial, and few people believe in its supernatural aspects.   They also have low crime rates, universal health care, low rates of corruption, and high rates of charity.	2005-03-23
US	37385132	RBE5SNDQ2NQDB	0743482255	902204553	Slaying is Such Sweet Sorrow (Far Wychwood Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	5	32	33	N	Y	Recommended for fans of character-driven cosies - like me	I thought that the first book, [[ASIN:0743482247 Arson and Old Lace: A Far Wychwood Mystery (Harwin, Patricia. Far Wychwood Mystery Series.)]], was good, but this volume is even better.   I was gripped by the story, sitting up until the wee hours with it, and am becoming very fond of the characters.   I would recommend that fans of Jeanne Dams' Dorothy Martin series give it a try.      This series features a woman who has moved from New York City to a small English village near Oxford, where her daughter, son-in-law and grandchild live.   Catherine's relationship with her daughter is prickly, but thankfully not overwrought into melodrama; I sympathize with both characters.   Harwin doesn't try to substitute bickering for plot.   This volume has a lot of fun with the difference between England and the US, especially in vocabulary.   The chapters are headed with quotes from 15th-16th century works that are exceptionally well-chosen for their beauty.        In this book, Catherine is forced to confront her ex-husband at family affairs.   One thing that I like about this series is that it appears that the character is not going to be locked into an unchanging formula, facing the same problems without resolution over and over again.    When her likeable son-in-law is accused of murder, and Catherine finds that the police see no reason for further investigation, she goes into action.   Although I would like Harwin to find solutions for Catherine other than breaking and entering, I am very happy to say that she is NOT the sort of amateur who, hearing that an axe murder might be in the cellar, goes down to check.    While I don't think that Harwin is necessarily ruling out romance, I like that Catherine is an independent woman who can do just fine by herself.   Harwin doesn't follow the rather tired plot device of having the character find Mr. Pluperfect in the first book.    In addition to Jeanne Dam's Dorothy Martin series, I also recommend Monica Ferris' Needlecraft Mysteries featuring Betsy Devonshire and Katherine Hall Page's Body in the ... series, featuring Faith Fairchild.	2005-03-22
US	37385132	R3VIEMTMRBJVHA	1887424458	956263298	Spectrum 1: The Best in Contemporary Fantastic Art (No. 1)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	My favorite of a fabulous series	These are truly spectacular collections: I have most of them and this is my favorite.  Always count on finding many works that are stunning, breathtaking and thought-provoking.  Potential buyers should be aware that there is usually some nudity and sexuality, and a few of the pictures in any collection will horrific or even grotesque.   It is hard to imagine a better buy in representational art for an extremely varied collection of gorgeous, powerful, witty and clever works.	2005-03-06
US	37385132	R15ACPQ41E64LS	0670894885	424836869	Jane Austen (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	44	46	N	N	The best first, and perhaps only biography of Jane Austen	I've read about seven biographies of Jane Austen, and this would be the one that I recommend that anyone read first.  It pretty much sums up all that is really known about Austen's life and avoids the usual hazards of wild speculation and dubious reinterpretation.  It does not desperately attempt to break new ground but considers the presentation of a solid, readable account of the subject's life as sufficient grounds for its existence.  This is not to say that I accept everything that Shields says, but she does a commendable job.  There is one serious problem with this biography but I believe that it is the decision of the publisher, not the author.  There is almost nothing in the way of documentation: bibliographies, sources, notes.  I do like the books that I have read in this series as a good introduction to the various people covered, and as far as I can tell, they are reliable, but one has to trust Penquin's reputation.  They are not scholarly.  I would recommend that the reader next consider David Cecil's [[ASIN:0140054111 Portrait of Jane Austen]] or Josephine Ross' [[ASIN:0813539544 Jane Austen: A Companion]], or Debra Teachman's [[ASIN:0313301263 Understanding Pride and Prejudice: A Student Casebook to Issues, Sources, and Historical Documents (The Greenwood Press &#34;Literature in Context&#34; Series)]], as a look at the author in context of her time.  Ross' book has a nice selected bibliography of different types of Jane Austen studies and Teachman has extensive bibliographies of specialized topics.  The recent movie, Becoming Jane, was inspired by Jon Spence's [[ASIN:1847250467 Becoming Jane Austen]]; I enjoyed both book and movie,  The interested reader should also realize that there are a variety of &#34;specialty&#34; books that focus on narrow topics.  Nigel Nicolson and Stephen Colover's [[ASIN:0297834959 The World of Jane Austen: Her Houses in Fact and Fiction]] focuses on houses and places she lived in or visited; it has an advantage over bookson Regency architecture in that it shows a number of houses that were extant at the time, not just the fashionable.   Audrey Hawkridge's [[ASIN:0720611040 Jane and Her Gentlemen: Jane Austen and the Men in Her Life and Novels]] considers the men in JA's life versus the men in her novels.  As for the other biographies that I have read by Tomalin, Nokes, Park, etc., one can get a lot of additional detail about the life of a typical woman of Austen's class, as well as trivia such as the weather around the time of her birth (Make no mistake, I LOVE such details) but the books are often weighted down with pretentiousness, unfounded speculation, doubtful agendas and side interests of the authors.  By all means, I recommend them to people with an intense interest in Jane Austen, but not for the person who just wants context for her writings.	2005-02-28
US	37385132	R284L380O98U0G	0312244061	77885409	Lady Catherine's Necklace	Books	1	7	8	N	N	Aiken really ought to stop attempting Austen sequels	The first third of this book is very promising but then it fragments into a mishmash of inconsistent or undeveloped characters, improbable and unresolved plotlines, motiveless behavior and gross historical errors to become one of the worst novels that I have ever read.       I don't expect the authors of sequels and spin-off novels to fool me into thinking that they are the original author, I just expect them to respect the characters and the tone of the original (even if they take issue with them) and to produce a good novel.  Otherwise I consider them a species of parasite; a book as poorly done as this one is something of an insult to Austen.   This is a very un-Austenlike novel, being poorly grounded in its time and a very feeble romance.  Unlike some readers, I actually enjoy it when the author brings in characters from other novels.   I am reluctantly willing to accept as authorial privilege the prudent or cowardly removal of Mr. Collins from Rosings, although I find it much harder to believe that Charlotte Lucas Collins isn't afire to depart for Longbourne as soon as her confinement is over.  The de Bourgh family has undergone a number of changes, or more charitably, previously unknown information has been revealed.  The haughty Lady Catherine turns out to have been married to a wealthy manufacturer, which makes her disdain of the Bennets' connections rather hypocritical, and while that wouldn't surprise me, I am amazed that Wickham for one never mentioned this. I can well believe that Anne de Bourgh would experience her mother as a rather negative parent, even when her mother is happiest with her, but it seems unlikely that Lady Catherine would have such a change in attitude towards her daughter.  Although in the beginning of the book, she continues to boast of Anne, by the end she refers to her as an unattractive girl unlikely to ever find a husband.  Lady Catherine has also acquired at least one brother, Lord Lucas, and is the sister-in-law of the Duchessof Anglesea, a fact that she somehow neglected to throw into Elizabeth Bennet's face.    These would not ruin the book if it were not for its general flaws as a novel.  There are heavy hints that the Delavals, staying at Rosings after a carriage accident, are some sort of con artists, but this plot line is simply dropped and their characters are never coherently developed.  The plotline involving Joss is idiotic on many grounds, not the least being that even at the height of Victorian prudery, still years in the future, it was customary for parents to take note of the sex of their children.  It surpasses my suspension of disbelief to accept anyone in this time and place believing that there was more than one virgin birth in the history of humankind.  Lady Catherine speaks to Lord Lucas of \\"our sister-in-law\\", the Duchess of Anglesea.  It isn't important that the usage at the time would probably have been \\"my sister\\", but who is this woman?  Since Lord Lucas is not married, she is presumably the wife of another brother who was the Duke.  (I thought that Fitzwilliam, Darcy's cousin, was the son of Lady Catherine's brother the Earl.) Or, if one stretches the title, perhaps she is the sister of Sir Lewis De Bourgh, but then she and Lady Catherine have the same father-in-law and one would not expect him to be referred to as \\"her\\" (the Duchess') father-in-law, but as \\"my\\" or \\"our\\" father-in-law.   If she is Duchess (and wealthy) by virtue of a second marriage, it is hard to understand why she would care to leave her money to her first set of in-laws, however much they might wish it.  I suppose that it doesn't really matter, since the character's entire purpose is to introduce an inane plot line.  I won't reveal the windup to Maria Lucas' story, but I find it quite implausible.       Then there are the gross historical errors.  Aiken has it that the de Bourghs tore down the ancestral family seat of Lady Catherine's family, Hunsford Castle, and replaced it with Rosings.If she had a brother (or brothers) the Castle would almost certainly have gone to a male heir, even if it wasn't entailed. It's not that it is impossible that a daughter might inherit an unentailed property in preference to a son, but thereby should hang a tale - when Lord Lucas tells his story about Hunsford, his listeners should be surprised.  One of the plot lines originates partly in the belief of an Anglican clergyman that he can shorten his stay in Purgatory by not having sex with his wife.  Article XXII of the Thirty-Nine Articles of Religion of the Anglican church specifically rejects the idea of Purgatory, and I can think of only one (no longer extant) Protestant theology that considers marital celibacy to be a good idea except as a form of birth control.  The idea that a wealthy heiress in this era (or any other, for that matter) would have trouble attracting a husband is nonsense: Lord Byron's mother was famously unattractive.      The general sloppiness of this novel makes it rather pointless.  I can only suppose that Aiken was under a contract and dashed off this mess that her publisher accepted with little or no editorial input.   I was going to avoid all her Austen rip-offs, but curiosity got the better of me.  [[ASIN:031215707X Jane Fairfax: The Secret Story of the Second Heroine in Jane Austen's Emma]] is actually pretty good - the  only one that I think Janeites tolerant of sequels might enjoy.	2005-02-28
US	37385132	R34AVOICN07V2J	0312145934	792737798	Emma Watson: The Watsons Completed	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Falls apart halfway through - Try John Coates	I don't expect Aiken to fool me into thinking that this is Austen's work, but I do expect a competent novel.   This was initially promising, but it begins to descend into melodrama.   The ending is very perfunctory; the heroine finds her \\"true love\\" with almost magically with little development of their relationship.   What is there is quite good, it is just not substantial enough for me to believe that the moment Emma catches sight of him, she knows that they are going to be married.    After reading this and [[ASIN:0575403152 Lady Catherine's Necklace (A Jane Austen entertainment)]], Aiken's sequel to Pride and Prejudice, it appears to me that the author is rather bored with romances - I strongly recommend that she try writing something else.   It is possible to write a historical novel of this period without leeching off of Austen.    I strongly recommend John Coates' finishing of this fragment, [[ASIN:B0006AVVIY The Watsons;: Jane Austen's fragment continued and completed by John Coates]].	2005-02-28
US	37385132	R16393AZTTXABA	0765308053	720279792	Winter of Discontent (Dorothy Martin Mysteries, No. 9)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Enjoyable until the disappointing ending	Fans of the Dorothy Martin series (and I am certainly one) will probably be happy with this book, at least until the last few pages.   It is always good to be back with Dorothy and her husband and their friend Jane. <br /> <br />The hard part about reviewing this is that I don't want to reveal the plot.   This is not one of the best of the series.  There are a few logical holes which I would probably be willing to forget completely if I didn't find the denouement of the mystery so annoying.   The windup of the entire book is a little hard to buy, but so charming that I'm happy to accept it, expecting to see the welcome addition of another likeable character.   <br /> <br />The resolution of the mystery is very disappointing to me.  I think that Dams may realize that she is on shaky ground and that is why she has worked so hard, a little too hard, to make the murderer unsympathetic - otherwise, readers might be wanting to help pay the defense attorney, er, barrister.  I wonder why she developed such a plot in the first place.  I cannot like the characters'(Dams') argument that heinous crimes become irrelevant with time, and that justice is unnecessary if the perpetrator's later personal life is disappointing.   Extenuating circumstances are for the judge to consider when passing sentence, not a reason for the police to fail to make arrests.   The murderer suffered disappointments too - why not gloss over the recent crimes as well?  Only at the last do the police remark that it would probably not be possible to prove the earlier crime - it sounds more like a rationalization than a reason.   <br /> <br />If this were the first Dorothy Martin that I had read I probably wouldn't read another, and I would certainly have given it a lower rating.  Since I really enjoyed the rest of the books, I'll assume that that series are always a little uneven, and look hopefully forward to the next installment.	2005-02-01
US	37385132	R2DVXAMLGZWXUG	0195154800	275432756	The New Anti-Catholicism: The Last Acceptable Prejudice	Books	2	48	137	N	N	An interesting, but dishonest and discouraging book	Jenkins asserts that liberals would not dare criticize anyone like they criticize the Catholic Church.  I disagree.  The other group who gets much the same criticisms from much the same people (feminists, gay rights activists, etc.) are Protestant fundamentalists. [added 3/22/2012]  In the end, it appears that by &#34;anti-Catholic prejudice&#34;, Jenkins means a failure to regard what he considers to be the core of the Roman Catholic church, i.e. the formal hierarchy, with sufficient reverence.  He would probably characterize most of the practicing Catholics I know as near-heretical.  Jenkins uses related but distinct words like &#34;bigotry&#34; and &#34;prejudice&#34; interchangeably. It is clear by the end that a great deal of what he is terming &#34;prejudice&#34;, which is usually applied to hostility from outsiders, is in fact internal dissent and dissatisfaction from current and former Catholics.  I refuse to be embarrassed on behalf of my society at large if the hierarchy of any organization is having problems keeping the flock in line.  The book is quite interesting, containing a vast amount of information, including a lot which seems to argue against Jenkin's point.  I don't know whether to congratulate him to have the honesty to include it or to suppose that he has completely failed to understand how others might see it.  Jenkins is attempting to gain momentum from the various &#34;liberation&#34; movements that have arisen in the wake of the Civil Rights movement that became prominent in the 1950s.  To this end, he employs the tried and true propaganda technique of beginning history at a point where one's own side can be made to look like an injured innocent, i.e., the anti-Catholicism of nativists and Know-Nothings.  If he really wants to trace the history of Protestant/Catholic conflict, he needs to go back to the Reformation at least.  It would also be appropriate to mention the Vatican's anti-Americanism during the same period; many churches were offended that Americans considered the people, rather than God,to be the legitimate source of political power.  In any case, it is irrelevant, since the book largely ignores the unfortunately still extant strains of real anti-Catholic prejudice, such as the fundamentalist Protestant groups who regard the Pope as the anti-Christ. Jenkins's real foe is people whose argument with the Catholic Church is not really religious but social.  Representatives of the Church have often argued that it is their duty to enter into debates of public legislation and morality and I can't disapprove of the participation of any citizen in public debates.  They all enter at the same level, however, and those who participate in the brawl of public debate (excuse me, the marketplace of ideas) must expect sometimes very harsh criticism, although I shall always hope, often in vain, for a level of civility and honest consideration of differing viewpoints.  Jenkins feels that the Church should be accorded special reverence by all; he seems to suggest that any criticism borders on bigotry.  The Church should be permitted to make strongly worded pronouncements without risking strongly worded retorts.  To Jenkins, any dispute between the Church and any other group, including dissenting Catholics, is proof of anti-Catholic prejudice.  He would probably deny this and attempts at several points to explain the difference between prejudice/bigotry and acceptable dissent, but the main difference seems to be that acceptable dissent is removed in time and place.  Jenkins mentions that the Masons were originally welcoming to Catholics, but after what he admits to be a campaign of slander and libel by the Church hierarchs, became decidely less friendly.  Jenkins blames the Masons for the ill-will, even though he admits that the Church threw the first rhetorical punch.  In many ways, Jenkins does as much as any &#34;Know-Nothing&#34; to argue that &#34;real&#34; Catholics are unable to live in a secular, multireligious society.  It is in his discussion of homosexual issues that this becomes most clear.  I share Jenkins' outrage at the invasion of St. Patrick's Cathedral by Act-Up, but for the most part he discusses the incident as if the police refused their assistance and society at large applauded; he does eventually admit that even many gay activists were appalled.  I have enough sympathy for the points that Jenkins raises about the problems of expecting rapid change with regard to a long-standing and widespread condemnation of homosexually that I would expect to be charged with homophobia.  As an outsider, I would not presume to tell the Church how to regard homosexuality or insist that they sanctify gay marriages.  At the same time, if the church is going to condemn gays as hell-bound and attempt to frustrate their efforts to reach an accommodation with the larger society, it is ridiculous for him to take umbrage at non-violent complaints.  Jenkins completely misses the point in his discussion on pedophilia.  The issue for most people is less that some priests are pedophiles than the apparent inability of the Church to deal with the issue.  People being what they are, this has presumably been an organizational problem for more than 1500 years, yet the Church seems baffled.  Some people do see this as an opportunity to beat the Church and its policy of celibacy over the head, but in fact civil authorities have in the past tried to spare the Church embarrassment by declining to prosecute and trusting the Church to deal with erring priests.  Jenkins ignores this and complains that the organizational strength of the church makes it a tempting target for grandstanding prosecutors, forgetting that this is the very reason that the problems were concealed for so long.  The Church is paying more for its own failure to deal with the problem than for the individual transgressions of certain priests.  An added thought: Jenkins points out that many of the people whom he quotesas criticizing Catholicism are Catholics or former Catholics.  In complaining that people criticize the Catholic Church when they would not criticize other religions, etc., he fails to consider this in his analysis.  After all, it is widely accepted that one can criticize one's own group as one would not criticize others.  Not wishing to open a side issue, I will not go into the snippy remarks that I have made about the sect in which I was raised.  March 14, 2012.  I have exchanged comments with a lot of people, and I have thought a lot more about this book, and I wish to add this.  The more I think about this book, the more reprehensible I think Jenkins is.  I think that the talk about the 19th century and the nativists is just an emotional hook to inspire a circle-the-wagons, who-is-not-with-us-is-against-us, a way to tar by implication liberal Catholics, and anybody else who doesn't agree with the Catholic hierarchy as traitors or bigots.  If it's war, there can be no loyal opposition or thoughtful critics.  Yes, I am sure that modern Catholics can think of slurs and insensitive or ignorant (they are not really the same) remarks from non-Catholics.  As I can think of insults that I have received from Catholics and other people of my own ideas.  I know someone who is extremely sensitive to remarks about her group, but who has nonetheless insulted the ethnic and religious affiliations of just about everyone she knows.  But that is how it so often goes: we are sensitive to our own feelings and insensitive to other people's experience.  People who say things we don't want to hear are prejudiced bigots whereas we are being truthful and expressing our honest opinions.  It's not all the same: smaller minorities with less effective public relations have a much harder time than other people, but still, I believe that everyone has to put up with being insulted, or at least hearing things that they don't like.  Disagreement is not really the same thing as bigotry.  The bottom line to me is that Jenkins is blaming non-Catholics for remarks by liberal Catholics, implying that the dissident Catholics are letting the side down.  As a non-Catholic, I am deeply offended by this tactic and I think Jenkins should be ashamed of himself.  Some other books that I have found interesting include John L. Allen Jr.'s All the Pope's Men : The Inside Story of How the Vatican Really Thinks; Massimo Franco's Parallel Empires : the Vatican and the United States -- two centuries of alliance and conflict; Garry Will's Why I am a Catholic.	2005-01-10
US	37385132	RXMG30FTQC856	0804102260	306653280	Death of a Gossip (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	2	7	16	N	N	Maybe I have no sense of humor	To be fair, most of the people I know who have read these books like them.   I never liked any of them too much, but based on the enthusiasm of friends, tried several.  The very best part is the evocation of the village, its people and its surroundings, but although I love that sort of writing, I don't find it worthwhile when I have to spend time in the company of the main character.       Hamish has his good points, like his devotion and care for his younger siblings, but he's not terribly honest.   I refer here not so much to his habit of barging in and cadging food that other people paid for under cover of his duties as a policeman, but to his habit of running up enormous long-distance telephone bills on other people's phones.   Opening a phone bill anywhere around Hamish's village must involve a bit of fearful suspense.  I assume that Beaton expects us to find it funny, but I don't.   I assume that she also expects us to think that it's o.k. to do it to his on-and-off girlfriend's father since the man is rather a pompous snob, but I don't.  Especially since Hamish feels that these little thefts are a special privilege of his, not a generousity that he would extend in his turn.  As if this attitude of what is mine-is-mine and what is yours-is-mine is not bad enough, Hamish gets quite hypocritically sanctimonious at times.   A policeman obviously can't refrain from arresting people because he himself has human failings.   But in one book, a guest takes a bottle of whiskey from a bar accidentally left unlocked; he claims that he intended to pay for it when it checked out.  Hamish in a ridiculous fit of self-righteous ire dismisses the alleged intention to pay and lambastes the guest as though he himself wouldn't have grabbed every bottle in reach if he had the opportunity, and it hadn't been his girlfriend's bar.       I dropped the series in disgust.	2003-01-10
US	37385132	R2PV8WZM10ITCY	0399139788	984430309	Blind Justice (Sir John Fielding)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A New must-read series for me	I don't consider myself a mystery fan per se, I read them strictly as novels. (If I know whodunnit, it was pretty darn obvious). This was excellent, just what I like - a convincing look at another time and place and characters that I enjoy being with.    I was intrigued by the negative comments from the New Zealander (August 27, 2002). I wouldn't consider those to be \\"terrible\\" or \\"horrendous\\" blunders, but I did a little research.    The curator of an exhibit of 18th - 19th century costumes told me that at this time, the term \\"muslin\\" was reserved for finely woven sheer fabrics.  I wouldn't liken it to cheesecloth, which I think of as very loosely woven, but perhaps it's different in New Zealand. It was not until the 19th century that the term began expanding to cover heavier weights of fabric. Apparently, what we would now call muslin sheeting existed, it just wasn't called muslin. In the British edition of the novel, \\"cotton\\" is substituted for \\"muslin\\".    Rereading the first 30 pages, I found a reference to a thruppenny coin, not a tuppenny, but in either case, both coins were minted throughout the 18th century. The Standard Catalog of World Coins, Eighteenth Century, 1701-1800, 2d. ed., by Chester L. Krause and Clifford Mishler shows pictures of both minted during the reigns of Queen Anne and Kings George I thru III on page 567.    According to several reference books, chiefly [[ASIN:0313299331 Daily Life in 18th-Century England (The Greenwood Press Daily Life Through History Series)]] by Kirstin Olsen, people of \\"the middling sort\\" used both wax and tallow candles. Tallow was notorious for its smell, but wax candles were much more expensive, especially after the tax imposed on them in the early part of the century. Therefore, especially since the Fieldings, although comfortable, are not portrayed as wealthy, I think it very likely that wax candles would be reserved for special occasions and that the servants would use tallow candles. Those who couldn't affordeven tallow candles used the lighting described by the reviewer; Mrs. Gredge may have been grateful that she wasn't expected to use rush lights. I did not find any information about spermacetti candles, although they did exist according to the Oxford English Dictionary, but I believe that they were very much more expensive than wax.    The reader might be more distressed to look in the Dictionary of National Biography and find that it claims that John Fielding was blind from birth.  According to the websites of the National Federation for the Blind and the Central Missouri State University, Alexander is correct that he was blinded while serving in the Navy.	2002-12-11
US	37385132	R3FZUOOUFQVZZV	0684862670	971281319	Queen's Ransom: A Mystery at Queen Elizabeth I's Court Featuring Ursula Blanchard	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Very uneven in quality	I had liked the first couple of books in this series - on the plus side, these are very rich in their historical content.  They could qualify as historical novels in addition to mysteries.   This novel contains some wonderful story-telling, which is almost enough to make me overlook some of the doubtful plotting.   The \\"Ransom\\" part of this book seems almost perversely written for the express purpose of being anachronistic - in the author's eagerness to show how democratic Ursula, the protagonist is, she also makes her rather naively simple and open.  Ursula is supposed to be a shrewd woman and a clever secret agent.    The main problem is with Ursula.  She is a little too contemporary.  I can understand her chafing at the restrictions on women during this period, but she does not try deal with them in an intelligent, realistic way.       The rest of the review is something of a spoiler, so you may want to skip it if you haven't read the book.    What has really ended my interest in this series is her on-again, off-again interest in her second husband.  Even today I would find her vacillating incredibly selfish - if she isn't going to work on her marriage, why didn't she work harder to end it by an annullment!       In its time period, it's even worse - she can't fly off somewhere and get a quickie divorce if she changes her mind. Initially, she & Matthew were very attracted to one another, but he forced her into marriage, thinking that he was doing her a favor; she fled.  I could understand if she never wanted to see him again, but now that she has voluntarily gone to live with him, there is no hope of an annullment.  What does she mean that she hasn't decided if she is going to stay with her husband?  Does it seem likely that this 16th century man is going to tamely let her leave after all this, particularly given that he might not be able to end the marriage and remarry?  This book portrays Matthew in a particularly favorable light, and I find myself thinking that he deserves better than Ursula.      Not a series that I'll continue with.	2002-11-18
US	37385132	R2CZZL0L6S7FVG	0727857320	932573341	Goldsmith's Daughter: A Roger the Chapman Medieval Mystery 10 (A Roger the Chapman Mystery)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	One of my favorite series	I'm what somebody called an &quot;anthropological mystery&quot; fan.  I am happiest reading mysteries that transport me to another place or time in a convincing fashion, and offers me characters that I enjoy being with.  I stayed up much too late last night, promising myself that I would quit at the end of each chapter.  After three hours, I ran out of book and wondered how fast I could get the next installment.  I won't recount the plot, since the professional reviews do that, but Sedley delivers an involving world with intriguing characters.  I like the fact that minor characters recur from time to time and that Roger's life changes, as life will, instead of becoming stuck in a single situation.	2002-11-18
US	37385132	R35ZA8VJBKYY5F	0786709790	851801133	Bones: Discovering the First Americans	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A Mixture of the excellent and the awful.	Dewar has attempted to combine an investigation into the peopling of the Americas with a consideration of whether the researchers or the Native Americans should control the relics of the past.   Unfortunately, the book is very uneven in quality, even disjointed, and if one might say that life is disjointed, it would still have behooved Dewar to examine the disconnects.    I found it worth reading since I'm interested in the topic and she presents information that I haven't encountered before, but I did have to keep reminding myself not to grind my teeth.   Both because of her attempt to catch the process of science as well as the results (which I applaud) and her many, many digressions (which I hated) I wouldn't recommend it to someone who just wants to know what the present thought on the topic is.     I almost put the book down around page 10.  In the first place, I wish authors would not attempt to sneak autobiographies into their books; even after Dewar's research gets going she tells us more than I care to know about her airplane flights and the places she eats.    More significantly, it makes no difference to me if Native Americans came to this continent 99,999 years BP, or in 1450 AD or evolved here from Homo erectus migrants.   They were here when the ancestors of anyone else living here came and were barbarously pushed aside.   Even if they were just as violent as their supplanters, the point is that we are trying to create a new ethic against shoving aside people just because we can, similar to the attempt to abolish that other ancient and nearly universal human custom, slavery.    The book was fascinating for the next 300 pages or so as Dewar talks with various researchers about their own and other people's work often, admirably, allowing for rebuttals.   (She was rather unhappy when James Chatters turned the tables and grilled her.)    If that makes some of them look bad, well maybe they'll learn to stop shooting their mouths off.  There is a world of difference between inquiring whether one's learned and esteemed colleague checked to make sure that there is no evidence of a forest fire that might have produced surprising ancient charcoal and making vicious accusations of incompetence and fraud when one has never actually examined the evidence.    It is very significant to consider, in weighing the claims of researchers versus Native Americans, the care that scientific institutions have taken of the remains that they have in their hands already.    I'm not learned enough in the subject myself to really judge her competence, but she sounded knowledgeable most of the time and the bibliography was impressive.   There were one or two questions that made me wonder if she was bluffing, and she wasn't always entirely even-handed, but on the whole, she was pretty impressive.       The book flags seriously during her account of her trip to Brazil, largely because she spends more time recounting her trip and less recounting the research that I picked up this book to read about.    At one point, she becomes fascinated by some ancient paintings and spends a great deal of time arguing about the intended subjects with her hosts.   The argument strikes me as a waste of time, and potentially exasperating to her hosts, and it was utterly boring to read her repetitious account about it since with the exception of the cover (nearly indecipherable) and the dingbat, we can't see the pictures in question.    This is especially frustrating: since I only read English this research is much less available to me than US or Canadian studies.    Her attempts to consider Native American sensibilities, on the other hand, while well-meaning, are a combination of arms-length sentimentality and New Age fuzzy thinking.   Dewar does very little to seek out Native American informants, with the exception of a couple of story-tellers, and the information that she picks up from incidentally encountered informants makes it clear that their attitudes are not uniform.    As a white journalist, she might find probing these issues difficult, and they are very complex (beginning with who is Native American and do traditionals have more right to control these decisions than the assimilated and/or christianized)  but she would have done better to have dropped the pretense of representing their views and simply noted the controversy.  This quarter-hearted effort merely becomes another pointless digression.    A much better book is [[ASIN:046509225X Skull Wars: Kennewick Man, Archaeology, and the Battle for Native American Identity]] by David Hurst Thomas.    One pipe-carrier that she meets tells her that the dead are dangerous.    Dewar actually questions him a little, and elicits the information that for this reason, he thinks that all Native American remains must be buried even if they belong to a culture that does not share his beliefs.    This gives her an idea of a \\"Curse of the Bones\\" which she spends the rest of the book looking for.   She never asks how he applies his beliefs to non-Natives: the worst nightmare of the claimants in the Kennewick Man case must be that the anthropologists associated with the case will donate their remains to science, stipulating that they be used as anatomical displays in Washington state.   She never examines the difference between fearing and respecting the dead; the latter opens the possibility of compromise, the former doesn't.        She pretty well shoots down her own arguments for considering legends as historical evidence when she argues that the story of Noah's flood fits well with the scientific descriptions of the retreat of the glaciers in North America., including massive extinctions of species.    That last bit is exactly backwards: the point of Noah's ark is that while millions of animals presumably drowned, no species went extinct since Noah had at least one breeding pair on board.   (The story about the unicorns missing the boat is not in Genesis.)   Worse, Noah's taleis set in the area where Africa meets Eurasia.    When in human history or prehistory was that area glaciated?	2002-08-07
US	37385132	RND59E0WGEHLY	0030172217	324240954	Speaking of Inalienable Rights, Amy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	From back when Trudeau was still funny	This collection of reprinted cartoons by Garry Trudeau is not one of my favorite books, but it does date back to the time when I rushed to read his strip every day.  Baby boomers will probably enjoy re-reading and remembering.   Younger people may not understand some of it since many of the strips deal with events that haven't been current for decades, but some are more timeless  and still as valid today as ever.    An aquaintance of mine (to whom I gave this book) using the Doonesbury books to teach his children about recent history.  They don't understand a lot of the references, so he discusses the subjects with them and then they appreciate the humor and learn something.	2002-08-07
US	37385132	R2QPE2D8F9NB0Z	0312067151	809189988	Richard III and the Princes in the Tower	Books	5	57	57	N	N	One of the first books I'd recommend on the subject	If someone wanted to read one book to find out about the Richard III controversy, this is the one that I would recommend, although I think that it is valuable for anyone interested in the topic. In addition to a history of the man and the times, it also brings \\"richardology\\" up to date with discussions of romance novels and the Richard III society. If that's not enough, it's gorgeously and generously illustrated.    I have some disagreements with the author, but he is relatively fair-minded and even-handed. Pollard hews to the traditionalist view, i.e. that Richard III was a usurper and murdered his nephews, but unlike so many authors (on either side) he is not consumed with a desperation to prove his case that leads him into nonsensical arguments. He even punctures a few of the sillier traditionalist arguments. He goes into some detail about some of the fine points of the arguments, e.g., the symbolism of the hog, that will be valuable even to people who are already knowledgeable. Pollard also has a dry sense of humor that enlivens the writing.    If the reader wants more, most scholarly biographies of Richard III are traditionalist, i.e., regard him as guilty.   The classic Richardian (pro-Richard) biography is Paul Kendall's massive but readable [[ASIN:0393007855 Richard the Third]].	2002-05-28
US	37385132	R129YZGAFLYI0V	042518403X	648208367	A Murderous Yarn (Needlecraft Mystery)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Another great entry in a wonderful series	I picked this series up because I'm a needlewoman, but I keep reading it because I think it's unusually good.  I love the characters, which is essential if I'm going to continue a series.  One of the things that I like best about Ferris' world is that time passes, people change, etc.  She doesn't run plotlines into the ground: problems that occur in one book are eventually resolved a book or two later.  Betsy Devonshire, for example, starts off struggling with a difficult landlord, and later ends up discovering the dubious joys of being the landlord.  She also passes the commonsense test: she knows when to call the police.   I get exasperated with amateur detectives who literally and figuratively keep going down into the cellar looking for an axe murderer.  Lastly I enjoy the fact that Betsy isn't involved in a romance although she dates from time to time.  Now that's different and refreshing!    First book in the series: [[ASIN:0425167801 Crewel World (Needlecraft Mystery)]].	2002-05-22
US	37385132	RJQHRLR231KJQ	0451185080	788960269	The Witches' Hammer	Books	2	4	9	N	N	For right-wing, misogynistic, Protestant religious nuts	Someone on the Religious Right claimed that Feminism taught women to practice withcraft, become lesbians, and neglect (or was that murder?) their families.  This is a book he'll love to hate, although he'll probably be torn as to whether or not to hiss the villainous Catholics.  It's also for women who believe that Feminism consists chiefly of getting laid outside of traditional norms of chastity, as opposed to picky details like legal and financial equality.  We are told that a series of women are killed for being sexually active, and Hancock IS the author, but it seems a lot more likely that they are being selected because they are energetic social activists.  No only is activism much more public, and more likely to have come to the killers' notice, but wouldn't someone attempting to wipe out sexual sin start with the far more obvious prostitutes?  I began this book with great excitement, especially since I'm a neo-pagan, and I'll admit its a page-turner, but I don't think I'll read anything else by the author.  It simultaneously reminds me why I don't call myself a Feminist and offends all my feminist sensibilities.<br /><br />added 5/14/2012: The correct quote that I used in the beginning of the review is from Pat Roberts, and he said that feminism \\"encourages women to leave their husbands, kill their children, practice witchcraft, destroy capitalism and become lesbians.\\"  (Washington Post, Sunday May 13, 2012, p. B1, \\"The End of the Hairy Joyless Feminist\\")	2002-05-17
US	37385132	R2BNQB0RCRAHH1	042514545X	76658150	Fool's Puzzle (Benni Harper Mystery)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	This would be fun except for the main character	The best part of this book is that it's titled in honor of my favorite quilting pattern.  This is a competent mystery of an amateur detective in a specialized field (quilting).   There are two things that ruin the book for me.  <br />The first is that the heroine is such a fool.   I expect amateur detectives to display a modicum of sense and know when to call the police, but she keeps doing obviously dangerous things.   If someone told her that there was an axe murderer in the basement, she'd probably go down unarmed and alone to check.   There just doesn't seem to be any compelling reason for her to become so involved.<br />The second is that Fowler's idea of plotting includes lots of pointless bickering between the two main characters.     I don't think it's romantic or amusing and I don't like reading it any more than I enjoy listening to it in real life.   I use the same strategy in both cases: I go elsewhere.	2002-05-16
US	37385132	R3Q42U8MV8UOBZ	0380715716	203107386	A World the Color of Salt (Smokey Brandon mystery)	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Disappointing and appalling	I had great expectations for this novel, but unfortunately, the quote from which the title is taken is the best part.  In the beginning, it's a fully competent mystery with a heroine in the Kinsey Milhone vein.  Toward the end of the book, the \\"heroine\\" and other characters begin making choices that I would prefer to find implausible, since otherwise they are so utterly amoral and mind-boggling foolish.  If you think that murdering the convenience store clerk can be written off as a little personal foible, then this might be just the book for you.  I will certainly never read another book by this author.<br /><br />I have added this paragraph in response to R.G. Roy Fleming, who seemed to be responding to me.  Hard-boiled fiction may be tough and gritty, and the solutions may be untidy and incomplete, but generally the detective is \\"a knight in shabby armor\\" struggling to maintain the moral balance.  If they are not, they don't interest me, at least not as the protagonist in a mystery series.  I hope this isn't a spoiler, but although the murder meets a sticky end, the accomplices do not.  Despite the angry thoughts attributed to Smokey Brandon, the book as a whole seems to shrug off their guilt; certainly they appear to feel little or nothing in the way of remorse or regret, except perhaps for how the incident has inconvenienced them.  Indeed, I think that the portrayal of the least guilty party comes across as grudging admiration both from the detective and the author.  To be fair, this character would have tried to avert the crime, given the chance, but once it has happened, seems to regard it as a sort of uncontrollable natural disaster for which human beings have a very limited responsibility.  I might have more sympathy if the character anquished over personal loyalty and social responsibility, but mostly he seems to think that it is very tiresome of the police to make such a big deal out of it.  The justifying speech is one of the most forceful and eloquent sections in the book, and Brandon is not given a refutation of remotely equal power.<br /><br />The subplot involving Brandon's friend is one of the dumbest that I have ever encountered.  I'm certainly not starry-eyed enough to think that the situation will work.<br /><br />I presume that Brandon's compassion shines forth in some other novel.	2002-05-16
US	37385132	R24BP7C9Q7UG8L	0826411843	813363981	The Sexual Politics of Meat: A Feminist-Vegetarian Critical Theory	Books	2	104	152	N	N	Adam's convictions get in the way of her arguments	The very depth of Adams' convictions about vegetarianism interfere with her ability to make a convincing argument to the skeptical. Quoting people who agree with her does not in and of itself prove that she is right - it only helps if they are making good arguments. But they seem so right and so obvious to Adams that she simply throws them at the reader. If the reader already agrees with her, this no doubt seems very eloquent, but if the reader doesn't, particularly if he/she has already thought about the issues, they are meaningless. She seems to have no idea how the omnivorous reader thinks, and therefore might be persuaded. Anyone making an argument that meat-eating offends god or the natural order would have to offer me a convincing explanation for the existence of carnivores and omnivores other than human beings. The usual argument that they are animals and have no choice makes no sense. If God disapproved of meat-eating, vegetarianism would be the default.    The attempt to equate meat-eating and white racism is beneath contempt and displays an incredible (willful?) ignorance of how other people live.    One unintended bit of humor is Adams' constant reference to \\"savory vegetables.\\" Everyone I have quoted that to, included one vegan, thinks that is an oxymoron.    I also wonder about Adams' grasp of reality: she seems to confuse fiction with real events and to overrate the value of words. This seems like a classic case of the ivory tower. She offers quotes from novels as one might offer historical events. Adams repeatedly cites an obviously beloved scene where a vegetarian is, for some no-doubt bizarre reason, celebrating Thanksgiving with a very hostile host who not only insists upon putting meat on her plate, but pours gravy over her vegetables. I gather that it does not occur to Adams, as she enjoins vegetarians to rebuke meat-eaters, that we would find that as objectionable as the fictional character finds her host's behavior. I suspect that Adams has lost her hold on the distinction between defending the right of vegetarians to eat as they please (in which I would support her) and harassing other people who don't share their beliefs. Anyone taking the latter authoritarian stand will have to offer me a convincing, entitling authority.    I'll mention one last thing that bothers me about this book. Feminists, in their tendency to view their set of beliefs as a seamless garment, often argue that their other causes are an inherent part of feminism, which burdens feminism by making it more exclusionary. I don't often hear people making the opposite argument and burdening their other causes with feminism. Adams argues that vegetarianism should be considered an intrinsic part of feminism. Does she argue that feminism is an intrinsic part of vegetarianism? Does she tell vegans that they can't really consider themselves to be vegetarians if they don't support feminist issues?    Adams continues this argument in a book entitled [[ASIN:0826416462 The Pornography Of Meat]].    Amazon previously threw this review off the website, although it was at the time the highlighted review, but I am defying them and putting it back on.	2002-05-13
US	37385132	R1VUMPI4PY34LD	0812590201	240953944	Cursed in the Blood: A Catherine LeVendeur Mystery	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Newman's books are wonderfully vivid historical novels, but	I have very mixed feelings towards this entire series.  On the one hand, the atmosphere is incredibly vivid.   I can't really judge if it's accurate, but I certain feel transported to another time and place that I can experience with all my senses.<br />However, plotting and characterization sometimes leave a lot to be desired.  The male members of Edgar's family were so one-dimensional and melodramatic that I lost interest in what would probably have been a pretty good story.  There were two exceptions: one is a brother who is gay, which at least is one of the nicer stereotypes about homosexuals; and his uncle who belongs in a sword and sorcery novel.  I didn't much care for the ending.  I think Newman may be getting herself into a corner, but I don't imagine that I'll read any more of the series, so I'll never know.	2002-03-17
US	37385132	R3VCKWY8PFWG9A	0425176673	305148450	The Reeve's Tale (Sister Frevisse)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	My favorite medieval mystery series.	This is one series that really deserves the comparison with Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael series (first book, [[ASIN:0446400157 A Morbid Taste for Bones: The First Chronicle of Brother Cadfael]]).  Fortunately, I don't believe in hierarchies, because I'd be hard-pressed to choose between the two.  Frazer is a very gifted writer and these work both as historical novels and as mysteries.   Since Frevisse, like Cadfael is a Benedictine, it is interesting to see glimpses of how the order had changed over the centuries.    This is typical of Frazer: the characterizations are excellent and often complex, the background is well drawn and the story is gripping.   Frevisse, having more experience in dealing with the outside world than most of her sisters is sent to serve as temporary representative for lands that her convent co-owns.  This is a complex job; she must manage to work and share authority with people whose interests are opposed to the convent's.  Frazer gives us a vivid account of the machinations that underly the struggle to control land and wealth, even among the peasantry.	2002-03-17
US	37385132	R3275JPPU10E32	0312269935	482009736	Saintly Murders: A Medieval Mystery Featuring Kathryn Swinbrooke	Books	4	8	9	N	N	I was very glad to see a new novel in this series	I enjoy this series, and I was sorry when it appeared that C.L. Grace had ended it.   I don't think it's a GREAT series, but I always enjoy the books.   This was no exception.  I was completely caught up in the multiple plots and I hope there will be more volumes in the series.    I would recommend Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael series, beginning with [[ASIN:0446400157 A Morbid Taste for Bones: The First Chronicle of Brother Cadfael]]; Margaret Frazer's Sister Frevisse series beginning (I think) with [[ASIN:042514321X The Novice's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)]]; and Kate Sedley's series beginning with [[ASIN:0061043192 Death and the Chapman (Medieval Mystery)]].	2002-03-17
US	37385132	R3MABGK091NB31	0345391780	608322438	The Princes in the Tower	Books	2	63	73	N	N	Worth reading only for devotees of the subject	As usual, Weir has written a lively, readable book, but I think it is a very poor history.  Weir makes some insightful remarks when the facts suit her, but I would only recommend the book to readers who know enough about the subject to carefully weigh her claims.  Others have talked about the reliability of Weir's sources, but I'll just stick to the problems that are internal to the book, even if the reader knows nothing else about the topic.     Weir constantly contradicts herself and her logic is often bizarre. On a general level, she tries to argue that the facts surrounding the death of the princes were at one and the same time, a closely guarded secret and known to everyone in Europe, depending on which is most convenient to her at any given point. At a more detailed level:    She spends several pages arguing that the story that Edward IV's marriage to Elizabeth Woodville was bigamous is completely ludicrous and that no contemporary writer believed it. She then describes it as \\"well-conceived and plausible\\".    Citing More, she claims that Margaret Beaufort was able to prove to Elizabeth Woodville that her sons (the princes in the tower) were dead. Later, Weir claims that Henry VII (Beaufort's son) didn't know whether or not they were dead.  What happened to the evidence provided to Woodville?    Weir claims that Louis XI knew that Richard III murdered the princes, in spite of the fact that she believes they were alive when Louis died.    She claims that More got otherwise unknown information from knowledgeable people of his acquaintance. If it is obvious to Weir that these people might have known something, wouldn't it have been even more obvious to Henry VII and his advisors? Wouldn't he have questioned them? Would they have refused to answer the king and then babbled all they knew to More?    She argues that no-one other than Richard III could have killed the princes during his reign, since no-one was tried for it. Then she claims that Henry VII knew who murdered the princes, at Richard's order, but never tried them because it would have raised embarrassing questions. Wouldn't it have been even more embarrassing for Richard to have tried someone during his reign? She also claims that Henry feared it might alienate other European rulers, in spite of her claim that those rulers already knew all about it while Richard was alive and continued to deal with him.     She argues that More's friends read the manuscript and would have corrected any errors, in spite of the fact that (as she admits) it contains numerous errors as it is.    There are more problems, but I can't sum them up in a few sentences.    Since originally writing this review, I have looked into the issue of the textile evidence, i.e., Weir's claim that an unidentified person said that there were scraps of velvet in the coffin when it was opened; Weir does not bother to cite a source.   I strongly fault her failure to provide documentation for this new and very interesting argument.     She claims that an unnamed textile expert told her that velvet first came to England in 1400.  She then argues that it was very expensive and custom limited its use to only \\"the very highest\\", so these bones must have been the princes.   This contradicts her cherished quote from More that the princes were naked when they were strangled; I think it's unlikely that people committing murder in haste would dress the bodies before burial.   Further, according to [[ASIN:1843832399 Textiles and Clothing, c.1150-1450 (Medieval Finds from Excavations in London) (Medieval Finds from Excavations in London)]] by Elisabeth Crowfoot, Frances Pritchard, Kay Staniland, the first WRITTEN records of velvet imports were in the late 13th century.  The wardrobe records of Edward IV, the princes' father, show that pieces of velvet were common gifts to his followers, and the wardrobe records of Sir John Fastolf (d.1459) show that he had several velvet garments.  [Fastolf was an extremely wealthy man,so his wardrobe can't be taken as typical for all knights.]  Fabric of all types was relatively much more expensive prior to the industrial era and there was a very active trade in used garments and fabrics.  So there had been something close to two hundred years prior to the deaths of the princes, and three hundred and fifty years prior to finding of the bones, for resold pieces of velvet to work their way down the social chain.      I am therefore not convinced that small scraps of velvet prove that the bodies belonged to princes, even assuming that the unknown witness in the uncited source was correct in his/her identification of fabric as velvet and not some other nappy fabric.  I am, however, convinced that Weir was suspiciously sloppy in presenting her case, particularly given that many of her other statements are carefully documented.     If you're a student of the topic, as I am, it's worth reading. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone as an introduction. For that, try reading A.J. Pollard's [[ASIN:0750930225 Richard III and the Princes in the Tower]].  Pollard also believes that Richard III was guilty; my objections to Weir are not primarily based on the assumption that Richard was innocent, just a preference for good, well-documentated research and logical thinking.   [[ASIN:1560062622 Mysterious Deaths - The Little Princes in the Tower (Mysterious Deaths)]] by William W. Lace is also better than Weir, just realize that a lot of the illustrations are 19th century.  I also recommend [[ASIN:0060987383 Royal Blood: Richard III and the Mystery of the Princes]] by Bertram Fields.  Fields is more sympathetic to Richard III, and quite dismissive of Weir, but the exciting thing to me is that he tosses around ideas and thought-provoking possibilities without necessarily drawing conclusions.  Some people find that irritating, but I find it very stimulating.	2002-03-16
US	37385132	RX494ZHJNYO08	042518093X	910498314	The Mask of Ra	Books	3	0	1	N	N	I won't be looking for the next volume	I was really looking forward to a book with Hatshepsut in it, but this was a disappointment, both in its portrayal of her and the feeble plot.   Hatshepsut remains pretty controversial, even today, and Doherty's character just doesn't strike me as a plausible imagining of the woman.       I don' think this next paragraph is a spoiler, since it comes up pretty early in the book.   I simply cannot understand how she could be so easily blackmailed.  How on earth could the blackmailer prove the charge?   Who (that could hurt her) would believe it anyway, particularly since the threats begin while her husband is still alive?   It wouldn't have been in Thutmosis' interest to to believe it, whatever evidence was offered.   This isn't a society where the blackmailer can go on a talk show.   In Egypt at this time, would it have mattered that much even if it was true?  O.K. for passing time, but not a great addition to the genre.	2002-03-15
US	37385132	R3IU2YJK9G08RJ	050001700X	382577134	Who Wrote Shakespeare?	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Absolutely outstanding review of the debate	This is a wonderful book for someone who wants to understand the Shakespearean author debate, without bogging themselves down in reading dozens, hundreds, thousands of books.   I don't think that would be worth the effort, but this is.   Even though I don't actually think it is terribly important who wrote Shakespeare (either Shakespeare or someone who called himself Shakespeare, as they say of Homer) I find books like this that toss around ideas without taking sides fascinating.  The book is lucid, thorough and restrained.   The author offers a few comments and conclusions of his own, but in a very fairminded spirit.   I learned a great deal about Shakespeare (or Shakspere) of Avon that I never knew, and about his times and contemporaries.   I'd recommend it for anyone who is interested in Shakespeare, this era, or just likes to play with ideas.  For the latter person, I'd also recommend [[ASIN:0060987383 Royal Blood: Richard III and the Mystery of the Princes]] by Bertram Fields.   That is a trifle more partisan, but offers the same fun of juggling ideas.	2002-03-09
US	37385132	RVHCT2Q2VJW4P	0815401167	279918240	Finno-Ugric and Siberian (Mythology of All Races, Volume IV)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An unparalleled source for mythology	I suppose that some of the work in this set, written between 1916 and 1932 and reisused in the 1960s, has been changed by more recent scholarship, but there is still nothing to equal this fantastic achievement.  It includes not only the more familiar myths such as Greek and Roman, but pretty well succeeds in its goal to include all of humanity.  The text is extremely detailed but very readable; none of the turgid prose so often associated with academia.  One of the most useful parts of the set is the 13th volume, an extremely detailed and completed index, which allows the reader to pursue a theme, or even a topic as specific as the significance of belts, across all the volumes.      The first twelve volumes deal with the mythology of particular regions, as noted in the titles.   Although there is not an individual index, the table of contents is fairly detailed, so information can still be retrieved.   The volumes include a number of plates, mostly in black-and-white, with line drawings included in the text.   The books appear to have been issued without dust jackets.	2002-02-16
