US	37388532	R24XJTGI0MGI3Q	0345471865	440188610	We Got Fired!: . . . And It's the Best Thing That Ever Happened to Us	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Oh, how the mighty have fallen!	What you get out of this book will depend on your purpose for reading it.  For example, do you want to feel better about having been fired? Do you want to see how other people handled tough situations, or are you expecting practical advice?  If you want to be inspired and get over negative feelings about having been fired, then you might get something from this book.  It is great to see the people in this book triumph over bad firings.  However, being that most of them are major players in business, sports, and politics, the average reader might not find much information to be personally relevent.  How many of us are CEOs of Fortune 500 Companies?  After reading the first few stories, I ended up skipping around to people and situations that I found the most interesting.  However, the type of people profiled doesn't have to limit what you learn from the book.  If you want practical advice, the author does summarize what he thinks we should learn from each person's situation.  It is just that the advice is presented in a style akin to your uncle telling you stories about what he learned when he was fired twenty years ago. I prefer the analysis done by those profiled and what I got out of it on my own.<br /><br />This book is unique in the very fact that it is subjective.  I don't know of any other books on being fired that give such indepth examples.  For that reason the book seems to be more a collection of biographies than an advice book.  From that perspective I found the book to be worthwhile to read.  I enjoyed learning about these people; some of whom I had heard of, and some I hadn't.<br /><br />If you are seeking advice, then the author's central message can be summed up as follows: there are other opportunities out there, you just have to pick yourself up, dust yourself off, and pursue them.	2005-10-07
US	37388532	R3PLLWHKZCRNH4	0373770588	12219741	She's Got The Look	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Standard Chick Lit	Melody Tanner, former model and child actress, can't seem to get a break in love.  Her ex-husband took her for all she was worth, and now she doesn't trust her instincts about men.<br /><br />Then, she meets Nick Walker in the flesh.  Six years ago he was the unknown sexy marine on the cover of Time and at the top of her to do list.  Now, he is a cop and partners with her best friend Rosemarry's boyfriend.  Rosemarry sets Nick and Melody up to meet on the pretext that someone may be crossing off the men on Melody's sex list, permanently crossing them off. Although the \\"accidental\\" deaths of two of the men on Melody's list may be coincidence, Nick Walker is not taking any chances. And, if investigating the mystery means spending more time with \\"the peacock feather girl\\" from his fantasies, so much the better.<br /><br />Nick and Melody have both been hurt in the past.  Melody doesn't trust her feelings for Nick, and Nick is afraid Melody is going to slip through his fingers.  How many times does Nick have to keep proving he is here to stay?  Will Melody ever regain her confidence? Will Melody ever live down the fact that a man died wearing her underwear?<br /><br />I really wanted to like this book, but I could not get into it.  I thought it had a good premise, so I finished the entire thing in hopes it would get better, but I didn't feel satisfied.  It had a few twists and turns, but the ending to the mystery was predictable.  The writing could have been edited down to move at a faster pace.  In fact, I think the story would have done better as a novella, rather than a stand alone book. The author also explored the romance between Rosmarry and Dex which didn't really add much to the main plotline, but also would have made a good novella.  Other reviewers say that the banter between Melody and Nick is very funny, but I found it to be standard stuff found in Chick Lit books.  There were some steamy loves scenes, but again, standard stuff.<br /><br />If you are a Leslie Kelly fan, then you might like this book.  If you are new to her work like I am, I would start with something else by the author.e Kelly fan, then you might like this book.  If you are new to her work like I am, I would start with something else by the author.	2005-09-28
US	37388532	R1JGU63KFX4GLR	0758210795	281833266	Confessions Of A Wicked Woman	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Light summer read	Stephanie is furious with her business partner/friend Venus. Unfortunately for their business, Venus has decided to extend her vacation in her home town of Mayfield, even if it means flaking on their biggest client yet. On her way to retriving the obstinant Venus, Stephanie is caught in a flash flood.  Luckily for Stephanie, she is saved by Sherif Jack Logan.  The same can not be said of her clothes.<br /><br />Unbeknownst to Stephanie, the town of Mayfield has passed a city ordinace restricting the type of clothing people can wear, and after her dunking in the flood, Stephanie doesn't measure up.  Miscommunication results in good girl Stephanie being mistakenly classified as a bad girl.  Stephanie decides to use this to her advantage to play out her fantasies.  The object of her fantasies is Sherif Jack Logan.<br /><br />Sherif Jack Logan is trying to live down his bad-boy reputation and live up to his Dad's reputation, as the former sherif.  He knows he should stay away from Stephanie, but she is too much temptation for his wild side to resist.<br /><br />When Stephanie and Jack come together sparks fly!  However, their time together is bittersweet because they both think it won't last.  He won't leave his hometown, and she will never go back to small town life.<br /><br />How will it all end? Jack and Stephanie both seem to want different thing out of life, but their feelings for each other are undeniable.  A plot twist involving Venus makes the ending somewhat unpredictable.<br /><br />I think that this book is a good summer read (or anytime you want something light).  There was not as many steamy parts as other books in the Wicked Woman series, but what was there was good (The jail cell scene was definitely worth the read).  I don't think I will read this book again, but I'm glad that I did.  I recommend it to any fan of ChickLit, especially those who have read and liked Wicked Woman books.	2005-07-07
US	37388532	RYY2WXZBSA7U5	0451411129	857453135	The Corset Diaries	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Must read	The Corset Diaries is one of the funniest romantic comedy books I have ever read.  And, considering I'm a regular at Borders that is saying something.  The Corset Diaries is written as if the main character Tessa is recording entries in her journal about her experience on a reality TV show.  The show is supposed to be about people living as if they are in the Victorian era, but the drama behind the scenes ends up way more interesting than the show's original premise.<br /><br />The mixture of characters, plot, and dialogue works so well because the author doesn't take herself too seriously (spoiler: see Wednesday, September 1 for the mother of all fart jokes).  I'm glad I was reading it at home and not in public considering at parts I was laughing like a maniac.  As it was, I received some very odd looks from my roommate.  But, the book is not just witty dialogue, but it also has interesting characters.  If you like a female lead who is a skinny 25 year old blonde with a military background who had a horrible childhood and is now on the run from some nefarious conspiracy, when she meets a vampire, you may not like this book.  However, if you like a female lead who is a curvy redhead pushing 40 with no acting background who has no children and is not on the run from some nefarious conspiracy, when she meets a man who appreciates her for who she is, you will like this book.  And just in case you are wondering, yes, there are some really steamy parts.<br /><br />This is the third book I've read by this author, and I am snapping up as many of her books as I can find.  They are consistently a good read.  I would recommend this book to anyone, but especially those who like Maryjanice Davidson and Charlaine Harris.	2005-06-06
US	37388532	R35P9VBBDDSR8Y	0500512124	404599878	Shoes: The Complete Sourcebook	Books	2	52	56	N	N	Complete hype	I happened upon this book in the bookstore, and also recently saw it mentioned in Harper's Bazar.  All they say is that it is a \\"comprehensive history of footware.\\"  What they fail to mention is that all the pictures are illustrations.  There is not one single color photograph of an original shoe.  If you check the product description above that Amazon provides, it does tell you that it has illustrations, but many people don't know to look there.<br /><br />While the drawings are nicely done, they didn't give me the same thrill that seeing an actual photo of an original shoe would have.  The pictures on the cover are exactly the same type of drawing and the same type of composition that you will see of other shoes in the book.  I can understand having drawings of shoes from hundreds of years ago, but not having any photos of modern shoes seems a cop out.<br /><br />The book is informative, but I think it is in no way \\"complete.\\" It gives an overview of shoes from different eras, but does not scratch much beyond the surface. So, you get a little of everything and some representative pictures of the average footware, but not a good sense of what might be unique about a particular time period beyond what you can see for yourself in the illustrations.<br /><br />I've read other books on fashion history that do a better job than this book in covering a wide range of time periods (such as Decades of Beauty).  However, these books did not contain only shoes.  I have yet to find a book about shoes that has both good photographs and informative text.<br /><br />So, due to lack of competition, some people may want to check this book out because there isn't anything else out there.  But, I would not reccomend buying it sight unseen.  I think that this book would be too elementary for a fashion historan or someone into the history of shoes, but too boring for the average person to want to buy.  I definitely would not recommend it for someone with a shoe fetish.  It was worth the time I spent looking through it at the bookstore because of some of the text, but mostly because of the lack of photos I did not buy it.e time I spent looking through it at the bookstore because of some of the text, but mostly because of the lack of photos I did not buy it.	2005-05-20
US	37388532	R2CQXD3YRFVXNM	0865651582	151957106	Carried Away: All About Bags	Books	4	42	43	N	N	Surpasses my expectations	There are reasons I like this book and reasons that I am disappointed.  The reason that I am disappointed is that I thought that this book was going to have lots of pictures of purses from different eras.  The reason I like this book is because it is more than just a book with pictures of purses.  \\"Hmmmm...\\" you might be thinking.  \\"Whatever does she mean?\\"<br /><br />I love looking at bags in fashion magazines.  I thought this book was going to be like that...only longer.  Instead, it contains the history of bags, the relationship between bags and culture, the psychological meaning of different bags, and dare I say it, the philosophical perspective of bags.  Lest you think I am being sarcastic, I really think the author Chenoune does a good job covering these issues in a tongue in cheek manner.  \\"Carried Away\\" shows the bag as more than just a fashion trend.  Although the book does show examples of the bag as woman's fashion accessory, such as the ubiquitous Hermes bag, the book is more of an art book.<br /><br />\\"Carried Away\\" is divided into several sections.  My favorite section is about purses in the movies.  The author chose still pictures from certain movies.  Then, Chenoune explains how the choice of the purse by the costume designer relates to the characters in the movie. Basically, what does the purse say about the psychology of the character and the mood in the scene?  I also like the section that shows pictures of different bags and their uses in history, like the painter's bag.<br /><br />I think for many people this is going to be a book that they pick up in the book store and browse, but not buy.  However, I think that other people intested in the bag as an art form, a cultural indicator, or a historical benchmark will find this book interesting enough to read.  Therefore, I would not recommend buying it sight unseen, but it is definitely worth a look.	2005-04-16
US	37388532	R13Y9OM9PDB3Q3	0758210264	549668272	Wicked" Women Whodunit	Books	2	16	18	N	Y	SOOOOOOO disapointed	I really like the wicked women series, and until this book I could have recommended all of them as being a good read. This one greatly departs from the others in both subject matter and quality of writing.<br /><br />  I was especially horrified by MaryJanice Davidson's (dare I say it?) pathetic attempt at a murder mystery.  As I am a big fan of hers, it pains me to have to say that, but I am hoping to warn others that usually enjoy her stories to not read this one.  Also, I am hoping that those who have never read any of her stories will not start with this one.  My favorite book by this author is Royal Treatment.  Contained in Royal Treatment and the author's other books, but  missing in this story, is her usual wit and interesting characters.  I am still unsure as to why I should care what happenned to the characters in \\"Ten Little Idiots,\\" not that much did.  I'm not mentioning the sex scenes because they aren't worth mentioning.<br /><br />  Single White Dead Guy was a passable story, if very predictable.  It doesn't carry the book though.  The title could have been used more effectively to set something up for a better written story.<br /><br />  Like another reviewer, I stopped reading before finishing the book (at the begining of story #3 to be exact).  Then, I decided I should give the last story a try just to be fair since I was writing a review.  Although, it does not make the book worth buying for it alone, it is the best story in the book.  It takes place on a reality show that goes awry. I also upped my rating from 1 to 2 stars after reading it.<br /><br />  It is unfortunate that this collection is what we got when romance writers tried to do a mystery.  I hope that this does not spell the end, but I also hope that next time it is attempted, it is executed with more style and wit, and less compromise.  Fusing these two generes seems natural- what is romance without a little mystery?- but three of the four authors couldn't quite generate a good match between the two. At least Nancy Cohen created a decent potion of mystery and romance. The other authors sacrificed plot to focus on romance, but the romance wasn't good enough to overcome the plot problems. So, you get robbed of satisfaction from either.  Just like I feel I got robbed of my money by buying this book.<br /><br />I suggest checking out one of the other books in the Wicked Women series.etween the two. At least Nancy Cohen created a decent potion of mystery and romance. The other authors sacrificed plot to focus on romance, but the romance wasn't good enough to overcome the plot problems. So, you get robbed of satisfaction from either.  Just like I feel I got robbed of my money by buying this book.<br /><br />I suggest checking out one of the other books in the Wicked Women series.	2005-03-28
US	37388532	R1Q0I03QR5VF6Q	1416501592	508628536	Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down: Three Tales of Erotic Romance: Captivated by You / Promise Me Forever / Hunter's Right	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Inconsistent quality	I bought this book because the blurbs on the jacket looked good for the first and last story.  Perhaps, because I did not have high expectations about the authors, I thoroughly enjoyed both stories, especially the last one by Jaid Black. I have read a good amount of erotic romance, such as this book, but this is the first story I have read by Jaid Black.  If, as another reviewer suggests, this is a poor example for her work, I would love to get my hands on any of her other stories!<br /><br />The second story did not look interesting, but I ended up reading it anyway.  While it wasn't as bad as I feared, I agree with other reviewers that the chartcters and plot leave something to be desired.  I don't want to give too much away, but it is unlikely that in real life (at least I hope so) the lead female character would make the choices that she did in such a short period of time in which the story's events take place.<br /><br />Basically, I've read better, but I've also read worse.  This book has a mixed bag of stories.  Jaid Black's story has both a well developed plot and interesting characters.  I would highly recommend it. Sherrilyn Kenyon's story has a mildly diverting, but predictable plot, and standard characters.  It is worth reading if paired with other good stories in an anthology.  Melanie George's book has a poorly developed and predictable plot and cardboard characters.  I would give it one star.<br /><br />So, if you like erotic romance, this is worth a read, but you may want to buy it used or categorize it as a low priority read.	2005-03-04
US	37388532	R3LA9MMN0OOKHB	1571201300	669624640	Fabric Stamping Handbook	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Creative and Informative	I like this book most because it provides a wide variety of creative projects.  The techniques also can transfer to mediums other than fabric.  The one drawback is that some projects have better descriptions and instructions than others.  The author provides a good description of the tools and materials necessary to do fabric stamping at the begining of the book, but the book does not give instructions for some steps that more experienced crafters might already know.  Despite this drawback, I found the book to be inspiring.  So, overall I think it is a good book, but those readers who are beginners might want to start with another book and come back to this one.	2004-07-27
US	37388532	R3EWKWCFR6Q3ZL	1581803524	53057408	Bright Ideas in Papercraft	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Kinda dull	I was looking forward to this book, but was disappointed by the projects.  This book seems to me to be better suited for kids than adults.  I think that even a beginning crafter would not find this book very informative.  The projects are ones that you could be inspired to build just by looking at supplies in a craft store.  I think that it would be better for kids because they are more likely to need really simple instructions for basic techniques. A better book that has basic techniques more suited for adults is -The Encyclopedia of Papermaking and Bookbinding- by Reimer-Ep and Reimer.	2004-07-27
US	37388532	R2FB4X0DADCHHJ	0762412143	851326558	Encyclopedia Of Papermaking And Bookbinding: The Definitive Guide To Making, Embellishing, And Repairing Paper, Books, And Scrapbooks	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Well worth the money	The two things I like most about this book is its thoroughness in the techniques it shows and its easy to understand and follow instructions. Not only does it give step-by-step written instructions, but it also shows you pictures at each step, unlike some craft books that only give you a picture of the final project. The book also contains a variety of projects, and they are decorated in different styles. Most other craft book only offer one style, such as very -artsy- (i.e. colorful) or very -country-. There is nothing wrong with these styles, but it is nice to have a variety of inspiring choices, such as this book provides. I reccommend it to both the beginner and more experienced crafter.	2004-07-27
US	37388532	R3JEJZ76C3Z8DN	0811826864	948146252	Instant Gratification: Jewelry	Books	2	14	15	N	N	Did not gratify me	If you are looking for a beautiful coffee table book, then this is the craft book for you.  I enjoyed looking at the pictures.  However, the instructions left a lot to be desired.  There is one big picture of the end product on one page, and a lot of empty space on the opposite page. There are no step-by-step instructions.  Therefore, I think this book was probably intended for someone that has experience making jewelry and can just look at the picture and make a project.  I find that the whole &quot;instant gratification&quot; series is like this.  I wouldn't recommend this book for new crafters, but it might appeal to others who can fill in the blanks with their own knowledge.	2004-07-17
US	37388532	RSL19L5LPC8LN	1842155857	843299997	Craft Workshop: Beads	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Will satisfy both the beginner &amp; the expert!	What made Beads stand out from the other books at the book store was that it has both a variety of projects and also detailed step-by-step instructions with pictures.  I've found that most craft books have either a few detailed projects or lots of pictures with little explanation of how to get from the raw materials to the end product.  The authors of these books seem to assume the reader is an expert crafter and already has that knowledge.  This book, however, has projects that will work for all types of crafters. The specific instructions will help new crafters, but the projects are such that the experienced crafter can extrapolate from the project's instructions to make something more advanced. Another thing I liked is that this book uses beads to do more than make jewelry.  For example, I look forward to making the spiral &quot;chandelier&quot; which combines beads and wire.  The only reason I didn't give the book a 5 is because practically all of the beads in the projects are very small.  I would like to have seen more projects with a variety of bead sizes, but I figure people can change the sizes if they want to for many of the projects.  Overall I think that this book is a good buy.	2004-07-17
US	37388532	R13APSA90PD8CB	0399529535	59255922	Ready To Wear: An Expert's Guide to Choosing and Using Your Wardrobe	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Disappointing	I can not trust any book about fashion that has ZERO color photographs of clothes. Other reviewers say that it has some good information, but I did not want to read through it to find out.  We all know what a purse looks like, pants, shirts, etc., but I think that the lack of pictures would make it difficult for people to be inspired by only what the author says.  I certainly would find it difficult, and I love fashion!<br />There are many newly published books out there that are much better (and have color photographs).  Lucky's Guide to Shopping, Vintage Wear, and the Chic Simple Books are all good examples of guides to clothes.	2004-05-04
US	37388532	R2BXTCLKZ209LR	1579122337	954007177	Wearing Vintage	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	The vintage equivalent of the Chic Simple books	This book contains great photos of clothes, up close and in detail.  The book is divided into clothes categories, rather than by era, but it gives some detail about 20th century fashion trends in each era for each clothing item. Although the author imparts bits of history, she does not do this as if the book were an introduction to fashion history.  There is also some information and advice about wearing vintage pieces in general. The resource section is a nice bonus because it describes how to clean and care for items, as well as a glossary of terms, among other sections.<br />I think an assumption behind this book is that readers are not so much looking to wear all pieces from the same era like a costume, but rather they are looking to find unique pieces to wear, according to their own sense of style.<br />If you are searching to reproduce a specific era, I would seek another fashion book that was specifically written about that era.  However, if you are interested in fashion in general and vintage in particular, this book is for you.  I would recommend this book to anyone, but especially someone who wants to find unique clothing and learn a little bit about 20th century clothes.	2003-11-10
US	37388532	R316Y6MU9W8ZXQ	0500203482	261649262	Costume and Fashion: A Concise History (World of Art)	Books	3	23	23	N	N	A basic intro to fashion and costumes	This book is aptly titled.  It gives just a little bit about everything from ancient Egyptian styles to fashion in the 1990s.  Those of you looking for photos and descriptions with great attention to detail should look elsewhere, but those of you looking for just an overview of fashion, this would be a good introduction.<br />The author discusses the rise and fall of fashion trends through the ages, and how society, industry, and particular people influenced them.  The text in this book seems as informative, as it is concise.  However, other reviewers seem to think that the author's information about pre-20th century costumes is inconsistent with other sources, but the post-20th century information is consistent with what I have learned from other sources.<br />Therefore, I recommend this book with some hesitation.  If you want a good overview of fashion history, especially a pictoral history, I would recommend this book.  On the other hand, if you are looking to learn more about a particular era, especially ancient costumes, I would recommend choosing a book specifically written about that era.	2003-11-10
US	37388532	R2LI31AI9CUTBX	0312209444	992978131	What to Wear: A Style Handbook	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Decent advise, but no photos	I'm always suspicious of a book on fashion that doesn't have any photographs, and cartoonish drawings just don't cut it for me.  I will admit that the author has a sense of humor and that having the chapters divided by weather condition and/or fashion situation is useful.  However,......the advice contained within the book is not really worth more than a skim at the bookstore or a checkout from the library.  Most of the advice you've probably heard before, but the author organizes the information in an easily accessible way.  Therefore, I would recommend this book to fashion novices.  However, for those of you who are fashion junkies like me, I would skip this book.	2003-11-10
US	37388532	R2K1J6IFQWKY7Q	1592400361	472028596	The Lucky Shopping Manual: Building and Improving Your Wardrobe Piece by Piece	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outstanding guide to shopping	I love Lucky magazine so I was looking forward to this book.  It did not disappoint.<br />The book is divided by clothing item, with both general and item-specific advice in each chapter.  The authors give many different examples for each item of clothing by themselves and combined into outfits.  Due to the items not being categorized by the fashion situation to which you will go, you can not turn immediately to a page about what to wear to a job interview.  However, you can turn to the chapter about suits and find out what to wear that way.  Throughout the book they also showcase women who I assume are the epitome of fashion according to the authors, but seem like regular people.  There are some illustrations rather than pictures, when they are giving general advice about how an item should fit. However, there are by far more photos.  Plus, the illustrations are very well done.  Although I recognize some items in the photos as having once been in Lucky magazine, and I think of Lucky magazine as being trendy, the authors were careful to choose items that will stand the test of time, or at least the next few years.<br />I recommend this book to anyone.  It has practical advice, great pictures, and is fun to look at.	2003-11-10
US	37388532	RFEQNEV6GRETI	0300087381	168328114	Fifty Years of Fashion: New Look to Now	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Excellent fashion primer for the last 50 years of the 20th C	This book has both beautiful photographs and informative text.  The only reason I took off one star is that I think more photographs from each designer should have been included.  I especially would have liked to have seen a few more photos of clothes from American designers from the 1990s.  Throughout the book, the author mostly displays clothes made by European designers.  I would not have expected much attention to be focused upon American designers before 1980s or 1990s.  Arguably, it was not until the 1990s that American fashion really started to influence Europe, instead of the other way around. Because this reversal of influence was such a change, I would have expected more attention to be paid to it visually.  Therefore, the lack of representation in this era makes me think that American designers were somewhat shortchanged in this book.  However, I agree that all the designers selected, both European and American, did heavily influence their own time periods.<br />  This book covers Post War 1940s through 1990s.  In each era the author focused on a few key designers.  The author chose Balenciaga, Balmain, and Dior to represent the 1940s and 1950s.  The author primarily showcased Correges, Yves Saint Laurent, and Quant to represent the 1960s.  Halston and Yves Saint Laurent were the focus of the 1970s era. More designers are represented in the 1980s.  The book has one or two photos from Chanel, Lacroix, Blass, Herrera, Azzedine Alaia, Armani, Gaultier, Comme des Garcon, and Issey Miyake, among a few others.  The 1990s are represented by a photo or two of designs from Versace, Anna Sui, Chanel, Tom Ford for Gucci, Galliano, Donna Karen, Westwood, Calvin Klein, and Prada.<br />  Just as it is the maxim for fashion in general, so is it for this book in particular...less is more.  The photos in this book capture the essence of each era and the text details the stylistic atmosphere to which each designer contributed. I highly reccommend this book.  Despite having access to it at the library, I plan on buying it.access to it at the library, I plan on buying it.	2003-11-09
US	37388532	R3JWM9Q6ZWJ43G	0312281978	915428448	Jackie: The Clothes of Camelot	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent record of 60's style as seen thru the eyes of JO	I am not a die-hard Jackie O fan, but I love fashion in general. I have always thought of Jackie O as a fashion icon, and wanted to learn more about her.  Until now, I have never seen a book that pictorally does her sense of style justice.  However, in this book there are enough photographs both in black and white and in color to satisfy any fashion junkie or Jackie O fan.  No matter what the situation, Jackie O was always appropriately and fashionably attired. This book does an excellent job of showing this by portraying her clothing choices through the years and in a variety of categories.  This book does not go into great detail about Jackie O as a person or historical figure, I don't think it was written with those objectives in mind, but it should satisfy the fashion cravings of most people.  I highly recommend it.	2003-11-08
US	37388532	R3CKHQ8A17T1TT	0823929566	361395585	Everything You Need to Know About Learning Disabilities (Need to Know Library)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Almost Nothing You Need to Know Is In This Book!	Lucky for me I checked this book out from the library.  Let me save you the trouble.  Don't buy this book.  Judging from the table of contents, this book would seem to be informative.  It definitely lists the things that are important to know about learning disabilities.  However, I only wish that the content lived up to the expectations generative by perusing the table of contents.  The only group that might find this book useful are the children that have learning disabilities.  It might be a good introduction that they could read for themseves. Everyone else should check out books, such as the Complete Learning Disabilities Handbook by Harwell.	2003-08-10
US	37388532	R381NTNVVRI5GL	0671890964	584820494	Book Of Jewelry	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Mostly for advanced jewelry-makers	This book is not for the first time jewelry-maker.  Some of the projects require power tools and have long materials lists.  On the positive side, there are step-by-step instructions with pictures.  Also, a wide variety of jewelry techniques and types of beads are shown. The &quot;Treasures for Free&quot; section is a good idea that I haven't seen in any other jewelry-making book.  So, the benefit of this book will depend upon how experienced you are and how well-equiped your workshop is.  Therefore, I think this book is best as a secondary source for most people.	2003-07-13
US	37388532	RN8JKOCYSMSML	1861081421	919716410	Making Decorative Screens	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well worth the money	I can't say enough good things about this book. Howes, the author, has written an easy to understand and easy to follow book that includes all types of decorative screens.<br />First, Howes describes the basic instructions for each type of screen.  Howes shows how to create frame screens and solid panel screens.  Then, she gives instructions and materials for particular projects, as well as how long it should typically take to finish each project.  Howes includes various design styles for each type of screen.  Plus, you can easily make your own projects using the author's basic instructions.  She also includes patterns you can blow up to create the unique shape of each screen.<br />Some sample projects are a country style frame screen made with gingham and chicken wire, an upholstered solid panel screen, a music score solid panel screen, which has the shape of an old music stand and is painted and decoupaged.<br />I have been looking for a while for a book like this one on making decorative screens.  Let me save you the trouble. Buy this book!	2003-07-13
US	37388532	R3ULY6XUFRDQW3	1550749404	441775553	The Jumbo Book of Paper Crafts (Jumbo Books)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Introduction to Crafts	This book has fun and creative craft projects for kids.  There are step-by-step, easy to follow directions with pictures at every step.  Rather than having photos, all the pictures are drawn with what looks like colored pencils. I think the best project is the Japanese Doll Bookmark, but examples of some other projects are how to make a paper butterfly, how to make a box out of a card, a glow lamp out of a jar and paper, and shadow puppets.  The only potential drawback to the book is that the projects are mostly geared for girls.  However, overall, I think it is a great book for kids.	2003-07-06
US	37388532	R15ACV3ITY5CSG	1552092992	367806406	The New Stencil Book: Includes Over 40 Stencil Motifs to Use	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good book for home decor	The stencils in the book are for interior decoration, rather than for decorating cards, for instance.  A variety of styles are represented.  The instructions are easy to follow, and there are pictures of finished products in little vignettes.  There are projects for all levels of experience.	2003-06-29
US	37388532	R1FHXFWXKZRG0Y	0696210371	508660381	365 Easy Projects for Every Occasion (Simply Handmade)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Great variey of easy projects	There is a reason that the words &quot;simply&quot; and &quot;easy&quot; are in the title of this book.  The crafts are easy to do. For someone such as myself, who is just begining to learn about the world of crafts, this is a good thing.  So really, what you get out of this book will depend on your experience level and how well you can extrapolate from the projects in the book to your own, perhaps more advanced, projects.<br />As for the style of the projects, they are predominantly country and kitschy, but most of them could be made more sophisticated by choosing other colors or materials.  However, there are some elegant projects in the book that can be made without any changes. One such project describes using foam leaf stamps to decorate glass bottles.  The examples in the book look handpainted rather than stamped.  I was glad to see the project on how to create and add &quot;festive&quot; bows and other embellishments to presents.  I especially like the wooden box that was covered with sheets of music.  I also like the project that describes how to sponge paint and embellish a tray with pressed flowers.<br />Most of the projects have step-by step instructions and photos.  Some projects are just listed because you don't need in-depth instructions to do them.  All the projects are listed by season, but some projects can be changed to fit more than one season.  The book also gives you two variations on every major project.<br />As a bonus, the book has quotes scattered throughout its pages, such as &quot;No one was ever great without some portion of divine inspiration.&quot;<br />If you are interested in learning the basics of a variety of crafts, this book is for you.  If you are a more advanced crafter, the ideas within the book might still be inspiring, but you probably already know the basic techniques presented in the book. I would recommend this book to anyone, but realize that not everyone will derive the same amount of enjoyment from its pages.	2003-06-25
US	37388532	RZUUVTADBL7LA	0891348786	416153751	Creative Rubber Stamping Techniques	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Creative and Informative	I have just started making craft projects and this book was a lifesaver.  Besides offering very creative projects, this book provides all the basic techniques of stamping.  The author earns my gratitude by showing each method in a step-by-step manner, with photos at every step. However, this book also will satisfy the more experienced stamper.<br />In the first chapter, the author gives a detailed list of helpful tools and materials, a small library of quirky images, and the basics of inking and cleaning stamps.<br />In the second chapter on embossing, the author first lists basic materials and tips.  Then, she gives &quot;receipes&quot; and instructions for particular projects.  Some are more complicated than others.  Finally, the author gives an &quot;endless possibility&quot; section that provides instructions without the step-by-step photos.  This is because these projects all build on the basic tecniques so it would be redundant to include them.  My favorite project in this chapter is the Deco-Roman-looking flute player superimposed over sheet music.<br />The third chapter follows the format of the second chapter in how it is set up, but all the projects involve embedded stamps.  This method is &quot;a bit tricky&quot; as the author says, because it involves heat, but looks impressive.  It gives a 3-D effect to the stamped image.<br />The fourth chapter describes how to add vellum to your projects.  This chapter also has basic techniques and tips upon which are built more, but do-able, projects.  I like the use of tassles with the vellum.<br />Chapters five and eight describe embellishments and how to combine previously mentioned techniques.  Chapter five focusses on beading and sealing wax.  Chapter eight titled ornaments does not describe stamping Christmas-like ornaments, but rather how to make clay ornamentation.  I would have liked to see more variety in the embellishments in the two chapters, but there are still some nice ideas.  I especially liked the heartstrings card in chapter five.<br />Chapters six, seven, and nine describe ways to add a finish to your project.  The chapters present the methods of antiquing, paper metallics, and brayers, respectively.  Antiquing is easier than I thought it would be with the author's simple instructions, but adding a metal finish is another tricky method that involves heat. Chapter nine describes how to change the appearance of your project using watercolors, bleaching, textures(like bubble wrap), and a brayer.<br />In the last section the author gives useful information.  She provides a list of stamp companies and publications.  Thankfully, she also provides a list by page number of all the stamps, and the companies that make them, used in the projects.<br />I look forward to trying all the projects, and would recommend this book to crafters at all experience levels.artstrings card in chapter five.<br />Chapters six, seven, and nine describe ways to add a finish to your project.  The chapters present the methods of antiquing, paper metallics, and brayers, respectively.  Antiquing is easier than I thought it would be with the author's simple instructions, but adding a metal finish is another tricky method that involves heat. Chapter nine describes how to change the appearance of your project using watercolors, bleaching, textures(like bubble wrap), and a brayer.<br />In the last section the author gives useful information.  She provides a list of stamp companies and publications.  Thankfully, she also provides a list by page number of all the stamps, and the companies that make them, used in the projects.<br />I look forward to trying all the projects, and would recommend this book to crafters at all experience levels.	2003-06-22
US	37388532	R2H4596F60S769	1859675336	237214892	Paper Cutting (New Crafts)	Books	4	37	37	N	N	More for intermediate and advanced crafters	I am just starting to make caft projects.  I am interested in paper cutting, but I have to say that I am a bit daunted by the intricacy of cutting that is required by almost all of the projects in this book.  I think the key is to have the right tools, which are conveniently listed in the book. You really do need several different sized scissors. So, in order to do many of these projects, unless you have already invested in paper cutting tools, you will need to buy some good scissors.  Most likely you can't just use what you have around the house.  However, an initial outlay of cash is almost always required whenever you begin any handmade craft.<br />The authors describe basic technqiues, and present a few basic projects, but quickly move to what I would consider more advanced projects.  I did enjoy the silhouette and paper flowers projects, which I consider to be two of the easier ones.  Furthermore, the authors are good about providing detailed instructions and step-by-step photos.  I think as I gain experience, I will attempt more elaborate projects, but I think this book would be best for those who have already mastered the techniques of paper cutting.<br />Because the book never claimed to be for the beginner, the only reason I took one star off was due to the lack of variety in the style of projects.  They seem to be geared toward people who like crafts with a Scandenavian or country feel to the design.  However, the cutouts are applied to a variety of objects such as lampshades, tins, place mats, clocks, cards, shelf edging, picture fames, etc.<br />I think the Waltons do a good job of presenting instructions and providing templates.  The only limit is one's experience with paper cutting.	2003-06-22
US	37388532	R531K3D0J8RKE	1859675336	237214892	Paper Cutting (New Crafts)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A good book for both newbies and more advanced crafters	The Waltons have written a variety of craft and interior decoration books over the years.  This book is a great example of their work. They give easy to understand instructions with photos of the projects at every step of the way.  They also give templates to photocopy for each of the projects at the end of the book.  Although the design style of the projects are primarily country, the techniques can be applied to other styles as well.  Projects for all levels of experience are represented.  The Waltons start off with a list of basic techniques, equipment, and materials, but move on to more advanced projects later in the book.  You will need the different sized scissors listed because some of the projects require intricate cutting.  The projects range from embellishing tins to frames to giftbags to cards.	2003-06-16
US	37388532	RJ8RK1XJO0TOL	0883639335	698949239	Great Rubber Stamping: Ideas, Tips and Techniques	Books	4	31	31	N	N	More for Intermediate or Advanced Crafters	On first glance at the table of contents, this book may seem to be for crafters of all levels, but I think it is best for those who already know how to stamp.  Overall I think this book is useful, but it has a few drawbacks mixed in with some good advice and projects.<br />The first 17 pages of the Introduction could have been condensed into just a few.  Also, I would have rather had pictures of the tools and techniques mentioned in this section, rather than just representations of finished products.  I did think that the second half of the introduction was more informative.  I especially liked the section on the elements of design.<br />In the Simple Stamping section Ritchie does not clearly list materials or take you through the stamping process at the time you most need it.  I can understand not doing this later in the book for the more advanced projects, but I wish she would have included more pictures of intermediate stages at this point.  You might ask yourself how hard can stamping be? However, to newbies such as myself who do not know much about inks and papers and such, more information would have been helpful.  I do like the general tips she has scattered throughout the book.<br />The last section of projects is titled Frames and Backgrounds.  This section contains the more advanced stamping projects.  It is broken up into three smaller sections titled Embossing, Punch Art, and Special Effects.  These projects all involve different layers of paper, ribbon, charms.  By the way, all the projects in the book involve stamping on paper, but some of the techniques could be easily translated into projects using other materials.<br />In the appendix there is an Illustrated Glossary which is very nice and a list of sources.  These sources should be fairly recent because the book was published in 2001.<br />I think people new to stamping may want to learn basic techniques from another book, but this book would be a good one to go back to after gaining some experience.  This would make a nice addition to the collection of intermediate and advanced stampers because Ritchie has some really nice projects.e.  This would make a nice addition to the collection of intermediate and advanced stampers because Ritchie has some really nice projects.	2003-06-16
US	37388532	R3G0LY3B9WF5QI	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Disappointing	I had heard positive things about Gibson's other books, that they were landmarks in the field, etc.  So, perhaps my expectations were high.  Regardless, this is a poorly written book.  I think that the concepts that Gibson raises about brand-identification, how culture and consumerism are in a feedback loop, how people are not always as they seem, and what exactly is reality are interesting concepts, and are what made me want to read the book.  He also certainly knows the technical jargon.  However, neither the story nor the concepts are satisfactorily concluded.  This is due both to poor character development and to a rather flat ending.  I think the story and characters were sacrificed to further the concepts behind the book.<br />The poor character development is due to two things, the androgeny of the characters, namely the main character Cayce, and the shallowness of the characters, and I don't mean their values.  I realize that Gibson could be using these as literary devices to support the concepts behind the book, but instead of informing me, it left me thinking that the author does not know how to write a good female character.  Furthermore, all the characters just seemed like mannequins moved around to further the plot.  Again, this could be to further the concepts behind the book.  However, I didn't believe in the characters enough to really care about what happened to them by the end of the story.  Because the main character frequently refers to a \\"mirror world,\\" and these characters are about as solid as a reflection, perhaps they were deliberately written this way, again to support the concepts raised in the book. Despite my growing disappointment, I did actually finish the book because it hooked me just enough to want to find out the ending.  Unfortunately, I don't think the ending was worth the time I put into the book.<br />So, if you are already a Gibson fan, perhaps you will like this book.  However, I would suggest newcomers try Gibson's other books first before reading this one.  Perhaps they will have better luck.ks first before reading this one.  Perhaps they will have better luck.	2003-05-27
US	37388532	R2N7N1H341RFQA	1580111432	807635646	The New Smart Approach to Home Decorating (New Smart Approach Series)	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Boring	This book was produced to appeal to the broadest spectrum of people.  It neither has one coherent style throughout the book, nor does it give accurate representation to all styles available.  It tries to represent many different styles, but in the most generic way possible.  There is the occasional nice picture, but not enough of them to justify buying the book.  Most of the furniture is overstuffed and there are lots of florals.  Now I like florals and include them in my decorating schemes.  However, there is a point at which you just have to say no. The cover does give some indication of what you will find in the book, so if you like that maybe you will like the rest of the book.  However, I would not recommend it.	2003-05-25
US	37388532	R37HDHDUNEJN5	0201567644	312193892	The Earliest Relationship: Parents, Infants, And The Drama Of Early Attachment	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good read For Both the Professional and Parent	This is a good book for both professionals and parents, who would like to know more about the science behind their baby's behavior.  However, there is not dry statistics. Rather, the science is clearly explained with many \\"real life\\" examples.  In the table of contents, each section is clearly labeled, so you can either read the whole book or go to relevant chapters.  This is a very good book to start exploring attachment research and issues.<br />Brazelton is a well know scientist who is a pioneer in early development research.  His neonatal behavioral assessment scale (described in chpt. 8) is the professional gold standard used by many researchers, health professionals, and child-related agencies.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in infant research and early development.	2003-05-24
US	37388532	R11ZHOCE6IJZZC	1576833143	584762731	Parenting the Hurt Child : Helping Adoptive Families Heal and Grow	Books	5	84	88	N	N	A Book for Everyone	This is a very good book for both parents and teachers.  It is also useful for adults relating to children who both are and are not \\"hurt.\\"  This book can be read as a preventive measure, as well as a book to turn to when nothing seems to get through to a child.<br />I tutor at a learning center, and work with children from all types of backgrounds and with all kinds of learning and behavior problems.  This book has been very helpful to me.  I feel I have successfully applied the techniques and suggestions in Chapter 4, and hopefully have avoided the pitfalls listed in Chapter 3.  Chapter 5 has specific activities parents can do to positively affect their interactions with their child.  Some activities can be incorporated in a teacher/tutor and child interaction, but they are more for parental interactions.  Chapter 6 deals with education and is more for both parents and teachers.  At the end of the book the authors present letters told from the viewpoint of both parents and children.  If you want to learn about relevant research, Chapter 12, \\"the Author's Smorgasbord,\\" gives brief descriptions of articles about hurt children.  Also, the section \\"Related Readings\\" presents a reference list of useful articles.  All of the researchers on this list are pioneers in early development and/or very well known for the quality of their research.<br />What I especially like about this book is that it does not make the parent feel guilty for the current state of their relationship with their child.  Those feelings of guilt can hamper the positive growth of the interaction between parent and child.  If you are even contemplating this book, or one like it, that says a lot.  If you are really in a bind, go straight to Chapter 7 \\"Surviving When It Feels Like Nothing Works.\\"  Good luck and don't give up!	2003-05-24
US	37388532	R17AU037OHFHW4	0743202236	112396348	A Mind at a Time: America's Top Learning Expert Shows How Every Child Can Succeed	Books	2	32	43	N	N	Disappointing	Benefits of this book:<br />Dr. Levine makes what can be difficult concepts to explain, easy to understand.  He can cite many examples of kids who fit those concepts.  However,.....<br />Minuses:<br />At first I was happy to find this book at the library.  The table of contents looked interesting. Much of what the book would discuss would be in my area, cognitive psychology, specifically how people read.  I went to the back of the book to see who Dr. Levine referenced.  I was surprised and dismayed to find that he had not given credit to anyone whose work was the basis for all the concepts he discusses in his book. Dr Levine says &quot;I think it appropriate to write this book based purely on objective clinical observation&quot; (pg.16), and I agree that it is important and useful to cite specific examples to supplement research. Plus, he has worked in this area for many years. However, I think it is also important to give credit to others.<br />So, why should this concern you?  What works for one person may not work for another, but research can tell you what works for most people.  If you know who developed certain concepts, you can find out more about those concepts by reading his or her work.  If you have references, you can get a second opinion.<br />I think many people can learn from Dr. Levine's work, but I hope that this review helps to put his work in perspective.	2003-04-22
US	37388532	R1EXTTDGN9VVZ7	0071343105	746247555	The ASTD Handbook of Training Design and Delivery	Books	3	61	67	N	N	Disappointed	I finishing my PhD in Cognitive Psychology, and I am new to the field of training. My purpose in reading training books is to discover whether or not I would like to pursue being a trainer, or at the very least use the information to help me in my current field.  So, you can take my opinion with a grain of salt.<br />I know that ASTD is the big professional association for trainers, so I was surprised and disappointed in the limited usefulness of a book sponsored by them.<br />Other books present design and delivery in a more thorough manner.  You can skim this book in a few minutes and get the key points.  Whether this is entirely due to the lack of substantive content or due to the book's format is debatable, but I am thinking more the former than the latter.<br />The key points that are useful are not adequately backed up by sufficient supporting detail or research.  I don't think the &quot;Delivery&quot; part should necessarily be backed up by research, but the &quot;Design&quot; part surely should.  I would like to know why the techniques they suggest should work and how cognitive processes relate to those techniques.  But my thinking that this is important may be more due to my own background, rather than a real flaw of the book.  However, even if that is true, I have found other books that do give sufficient supporting detail and/or research.<br />The other books I recommend instead of this one are:<br />- Beyond the Podium by Rossett<br />- Developing Training Courses by Hassell-Corbiell<br />- Web-Based Training by Horton<br />- Multimedia for Learning: Methods and Development by Alessi and Trollip<br />- Building Expertise by Clark	2003-03-11
US	37388532	R2GDF6VVK4X7C0	0071390316	433373404	Careers for Bookworms & Other Literary Types, 3rd Edition	Books	2	31	32	N	N	Disappointing	Unlike the other reviewers, I found this book to be less than helpful.  Yes, it does talk some about different literary-related fields, and I stress some, but the book lacks serious discussion of those careers.  Plus, it gives limited resources for finding out more information....no websites and no mention of other literary career-related books.  It only lists a few professional associations for each career.  Also, there were no surprises as to which careers were selected, such as...becoming a librarian.  If you just want a taste of what literary careers are out there, this book is worth a skim at your local bookstore, but if you really want to find out about these careers, follow up with books specifically geared toward a particular career.	2003-03-10
US	37388532	R2GO1IGN377J8C	0756400848	360533224	Vengeance Fantastic	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Good Read	As someone who reads a lot of anthologies, I have to say this is one of Denise Little's better ones.  At first, I was concerned about how this topic was going to be handled.  Was it just going to be good guys always win justice, or would it be strictly characters turned bad in their quest for revenge?  Happily this book offers those, but many other different views.  The majority of the stories are well written, and the authors' takes on vengenece are interesting.  This book is well worth the time.	2003-03-10
US	37388532	RUYXSBBRVTB5S	047139145X	581540576	The Complete Q & A Job Interview Book	Books	1	16	16	N	N	Not Complete	I've just started my job search, but already I have read a few job interview books.  This one does not compare favorably with the others, such as Knock Em Dead and 101 Great Answers to the Toughest Interview Questions.  Like 101 Great Answers it has questions and sample responses.  However, unlike 101 Great Answers, the responses seem canned.  Other books emphasize that you need to answer the questions for yourself and not just cut and paste the responses into your repetoire of answers, but this one leads you to believe that if you follow their responses exactly, you will more likely have a better interview.  What also is missing is a clear overview of the process you need to go through to prepare yourself.  This is where Knock Em Dead is much better.  It puts the interview in the context of the whole job search process.<br />Recommendation: Choose a better interview book.  The suggestions in this book won't make you stand out from the rest or be true to yourself.	2003-03-10
US	37388532	R8L0Y6FK07IEY	0793144345	87333808	Power of Six Sigma	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Useful introduction to Six Sigma	I'm a graduate student in cognitive psychology, but I am interested in training.  I had seen many books on Six Sigma at the bookstore and wondered what it was.  However, I didn't have time to read a large book on the subject, especially if it was not going to be useful.  I saw the small book Power of Six Sigma at the library and decided to give it a try.  I'm very glad I did.<br />This book is a wonderful introduction to Six Sigma that can be read by people from different fields, especially those new to training such as myself.  It does not go into the nuts and bolts of implementing Six Sigma, there are other books for that, but it gives you enough to understand Six Sigma and remember the key points. Based on this book you can decide whether you want to learn more about Six Sigma, and whether it would be useful to your business.  I don't know enough about other training programs to be able to compare Six Sigma to them, but after you read this book, if you have tried other programs, you can definitely do that for yourself.<br />The only drawback to the book is that I found the dialogue to be a little corny at times.<br />&quot;Black Belts&quot; in the Six Sigma process will not learn anything new themselves, but might find this useful to give to their staff.  Those who will benefit most from reading this book are people new to Six Sigma, people who don't understand Six Sigma from reading other books, and people who have not had Six Sigma adequately explained to them at work.	2003-03-10
US	37388532	R1UTY4JW1J7N36	0814450326	558165026	How to Start a Training Program in Your Growing Business	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Not Helpful	This book does not give you enough information to really start your own training program.  What information the book does give is outdated or not sufficient.  It does talk about how to implement a program, but it does not give you the nuts and bolts you need to actually create a training program.  Unfortuantely, my purpose in reading the book was to learn how to create a program for a small, new, growing business. Luckily, I have found other books that do a better job of explaining the whole process such as the book &quot;Beyond the Podium.&quot;<br />Recommendation: Skip Nilson's book.	2003-03-10
US	37388532	R32XSH2NLXNMXP	079312882X	234061709	If You're Clueless About Getting a Great Job and Want to Know More	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Best for those just starting out	I think this book fulfills its title.  It really lays out what to do in a job search from top to bottom.  The book contains useful information in an easy to read format.  Especially-useful information is shaded to stand out so you don't have to read a lot of fluff to get to the golden nuggets.  The drawback is that although it contains many useful topics, I would have liked to see a bit more information on each those topics.<br />This is a good book to get a feel for the job-hunt process and to figure out which skills you might be lacking.  Then, I would suggest going to another book that specializes in those skills.<br />Other Resources:<br />Get a Job in 30 Days or Less by DeLuca &amp; DeLuca<br />Damn Good Resume Guide by Yana Parker (if you are in a hurry)<br />The Resume Kit by Beatty (if you have some time)<br />201 Dynamite Job Search Letters by Krannich &amp; Krannich	2003-02-28
US	37388532	R3LQQ6MT1O46DM	1570231702	165997679	201 Dynamite Job Search Letters (4th Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Book Lives Up to Its Title	I have recently checked out many job search related books.  This one is by far the best I have seen on search letters.  Why is it so goood you ask?  Because it has so many different examples that are also well written.<br />This book does not just have examples of the traditinal cover letter, but also examples of letters to request information, letters that can help you lay the &quot;essential groundwork&quot; for requesting references, letters that you can use to contact someone &quot;cold turkey&quot; to develop job leads (which I found to be the most helpful), and many more.<br />The letters in the book also describe people with many different qualifications and in many different situations.<br />I reccomend this book to everyone, but especially people who are new to the job market and may not know the different avenues to be had for gaining information to help their job search.	2003-02-28
US	37388532	R1G81LRRSPBH40	1580084443	927140021	The Damn Good Resume Guide: A Crash Course in Resume Writing	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Best if you are in a hurry.	This book has ten steps to writing a good resume.  For those of you who might think that this is too many, everything is so concisely written that it is easy to get through the book in a day and end up with a great resume.  Other books on resumes that I have read fill up their pages with fluff or well-duh information, not so this book.  Although some may complain about the seemingly lack of variety in the jobs showcased (I tend to disagree), the ten steps themselves may be applied to a resume for any job.  The only drawback to the sample resumes in this book that I can see is that they are a bit wordy (which contrasts with the rest of the book).  However, you can aways trim the fat in your own resume.<br />I recommend this book to everyone, but especially to people that want a consise explanation of how to write a resume, and/or someone that needs to produce a resume in a short amount of time.	2003-02-28
US	37388532	R3RSX4UTX0K2NC	1570231893	429107033	High Impact Resumes and Letters: How to Communicate Your Qualifications to Employers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good, but Not the Best	This is the book you buy if you want to revamp your entire job-hunt process, rather than one you can quickly look through to update your resume.  Yes, this book has more than just resume templates, and it does have useful information, but there is also a lot of information to wade through in order to get the golden nuggets.<br />Pluses:<br />Chpt. 3: Myth and Mistakes, Chpt. 5: Organizing your job-hunt, and Chapter 10: Distributing/Networking<br />Minuses:<br />Many of the tips are similar to what is in other books, some of the information is well-duh.<br />Recommendation:<br />I have checked out many books on job seraching recently.  This one is better than many, but not the best.  I think this book is most applicable to people who have some time to produce a resume.<br />If you are in a hurry:<br />I think Get a Job in 30 Days or less by DeLuca &amp; DeLuca, which I actually bought, is the best book on the entire job search process, but especially if you are in a hurry.  The Damn Good Resume Guide by Yana Parker is useful if you are in a hurry to produce just a resume.	2003-02-28
US	37388532	R3JLE7WAZCBJ46	0060418923	620176608	Writing Well for the Technical Professions	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Outdated and Not Useful	I checked this book out of the library, so for me it was not a waste of money, just time. Hopefully, this review will save you both money and time.  This book will not give you all the techniques necessary to write well for the technical professions.  Although it does do a good job of giving examples of how to write different types of sentences, and it also gives practice exercises at the end of each chapter, the body of the book gives you &quot;well-duh&quot; information. Also, as far as I can tell, it does not mention anything relaated to the internet or computers.  I'm giving this book two stars instead of one because Section 2 Making Text Readable was somewhat useful, but the rest of the book was not.	2003-02-25
US	37388532	R2VKWC2UUZJ078	1841723312	682002938	The Color Design File	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Well-done and practical guide	This book contains many useful tips throughout the book and has beautiful photos. The pictures are mostly examples of Loft-style interior decoration, but if you don't like Loft style, the tips contained within the book are still worth the cost of the book.<br />The first section is titled &quot;Using Color.&quot;  Geddes-Brown does a great job of covering the basics of color, such as color properties, the color wheel, and how to find and use your colors.  She also covers areas that many other color books do not, such as color and light, zoning and defining space, and how textiles influence color perception.<br />The second and third sections are titled &quot; Neutrals and Naturals&quot; and &quot;the Colors.&quot;  These two sections show examples of each neutral or color and has information on how to decorate with each color.<br />The last section titled &quot;Useful Information&quot; has pages for your own notes and sketches, a list of resources, and a place to put your own favorite resources.<br />Bonus: I like the fact that at the beginning of each section there are pockets for swatches and magazine inspirations. At the end of each section she has a page titled &quot;Finding Inspiration&quot; which has more useful tips.<br />I recommend this book for anyone, from someone just beginning to explore interior decoration to interior design junkies like myself.	2002-12-30
US	37388532	R1NJIO1ZLPAX7C	1841720496	625370198	Global Style: Exotic Elements in Contemporary Interiors	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Not very global	The photos are beautiful, but I was disappointed in the narrow range of styles present in the book.  Most of the pictures are of asian style with a little South American and India style thrown in.  As far as I could tell, there were no pictures of tribal/african style, or other less-well represented styles in mainstream decorating books.<br />I gave the book as many stars as I did for the photos and for the authors at least trying to publish a more diversified book on style.  I would have liked to give it more stars, but I was too disappointed in it.	2002-12-21
US	37388532	R1K1C1UMIWX8HT	1571456848	535046581	Home Idea Notebook: A Design Guide for Every Room in the House	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Best as a secondary source	The benefit of this book will depend on your use for it.<br />Pluses:<br />This book has good questions to ask yourself as you go through the interior design process. Every aspect is covered from furniture to flooring to lighting. This book also shows a nice range of styles.<br />Minuses:<br />The main drawback is that some of the pictures seem out-of-focus and/or small. Also, there are no projects, which may or may not be a minus, depending on your purpose for buying the book.<br />Recommendation:<br />if you are looking for a book to organize your thoughts and give you useful tips on decorating, this is a decent one. However, if you are looking to be inspired by photographs, you might want to skip the book.	2002-12-21
US	37388532	R2VD6US93ZQELQ	1567997864	847117342	Stone & Marble (For Your Home)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	not useful	As a generic decorating book, this one barely passes.  As a book on stone and marble it fails.  This book does not fulfill what should be its purpose; it neither inspires not instructs.  I did not learn anything new about stone and marble after reading this book.  Plus, I've seen better pictures in catelogs.  I would skip this book.	2002-12-18
US	37388532	R32PEEW37905VY	157145683X	951569977	Interiors in Color: An Inspirational Guidebook for Color at Home	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Not inspiring	I love books on color in interior decoration, but I was disappointed in this one.  Despite being published in 2001, the pictures look outdated.  The interior decoration style represented in this book is 1980's decor at its worst.  It is mostly overdone floral chintz and blindingly bad color combinations.  Even the &quot;Modern-style&quot; pictures look outdated.<br /><br />Recommendation:<br />There are too many other better books on color to waste your money on this one.<br />Other Sources:<br />Color in Your Home by T. Evelegh<br />This is a great book for beginners.  It has one of the best primers on color using easy to understand language and with many examples.  Instead of being sectioned by color, it is sectioned off into neutrals, pastels, the mid-tones, the brights, and the deep tones.  The photos are beautiful.  The style is modern country and/or feminine (but not overdone) color schemes.<br />Color Your Home Beautiful: Ideas and Solutions<br />It has beautiful photos, a variety of well-chosen color combinations in a variety of styles, dozens of color swatches, useful tips, and quotes from designers.  The only style that is not well-represented is minimalism/modern.<br />Color Design File by Geddes-Brown<br />Pluses:<br />She does a great job of covering the basics of color, and there are beautiful photos.  I like the fact that there are pockets for swatches and magazine inspirations. Her personality shows through in her writing. This book shows only Loft style.<br />Think Color by Tricia Guild<br />This book is better for inspiration than specific tips on how to use color.  It shows a very bold, but tasteful, use of color and color combinations.	2002-12-18
US	37388532	R1TJSLBPI22ANN	0847823008	13349626	Yes/No Design: Discover Your Decorating Style With Taste-Revealing Exercises and Examples	Books	2	14	17	N	N	most useful to novices	Unlike some of the other people who reviewed this book, I did not find the quiz to be helpful.  However, the benefit of the quiz may depend upon how knowledgeable you are about interior decoration and/or how fixed you are in a particular style.  The reviewers who seemed to be helped the most were novices.  That is why I gave this book 2 stars instead of 1.  On the other hand, I think the basic tips provided by this book have been covered better in other books, and the pictures are only so-so.<br />  At one point the author says &quot;listen to your intuition.&quot;  That is what I suggest people do instead of buying this book.<br />However, if you don't yet trust yout intuition the following are some good books:<br />Color Your Home Beautiful: Ideas and Solutions<br />- It has beautiful photos, a variety of well-chosen color combinations in a variety of styles, dozens of color swatches, useful tips, and quotes from designers.<br />Ultimate Home Style Guide by Katherine Sorrell<br />- Almost all styles are represented here with enough details on colors, fabrics, and other style elements to create the look your self.<br />Better Homes &amp; Gardens: New Remodeling Book<br />- Despite the fact that remodeling is in the title, this is a good basic book about interior design.  I like it better than BH&amp;G: New Decorating Book.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R12BYBOADVMW	2850187402	37180444	Kitchens	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Disappointed	I love Elle Decor magazine, but I did not care for this book, or any of the other ones in this series for that matter. The photos are decent, but the decor in the pictures don't seem to be as good as it is in the magazine. I think that there are other books on kitchens that would be more satisfying.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R32OOY80BBKP9C	2843233690	739575007	Paris Living Rooms	Books	1	7	16	N	N	limited appeal	When you found this book, I hope you were not expecting beautiful photos of French Country or Classic styles of interior design. Instead, this book is the equivalent of a bad art house movie.  It has out-of-focus pictures of grungy looking rooms taken at unflattering camera angles in bad lighting.<br /><br />  If you are someone who likes to polish up &quot;diamonds in the rough,&quot; you may like this book.  Because I think only people that can look at junk and find some intrinsic value in it will like this book. However, those people will probably like the book titled Big City Junk better.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R977OQ5LQY5R7	0823025144	796156757	Lighting by Design (Decor Best-Sellers)	Books	2	24	25	N	N	Look elsewhere for useful lighting techniques	This book should be titled Lighting for Luxury Homes.  It would be diffficult to translate the ideas presented here into lighting technques the average reader would find useful.  Although the cover looks modern, the interior decoration style represented in most of the pictures is a combination of Traditional and Classic.  The photos are nice, but not particularly inspiring.  Storey's other book titled Lighting is more informative than this one.  I don't think this would even make a good coffee table book.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R2XZ46YKTHIPS4	1588161897	673059950	House Beautiful Paint	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Trying to be what it is not	I typically like House Beautiful books, but not this time.  If you are looking for an instruction manual on paint techniques, you will be disappointed.  If you are looking for distinctive photographs showing paint techniques, you will be disappointed.  Even if you are looking for a coffee table book of beautiful photos, which is what the editors of House Beautiful are best at publishing, this book disappoints.  About all this book is good for is a paper weight, and even then the hefty 1000 Practical Ideas for Home Decorating is a better choice.<br />Recommendation: skip it.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R1U0QMOQZKB211	1558706291	866499793	100 Bright Ideas for Kitchens	Books	3	0	1	N	N	an [inexpensive] way to improve your kitchen	I think this book has nice fun-to-do projects.  The style is Country/Shaker, but even people who typically do not like those styles will like these projects.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R3FIRY5N30QA2H	1586631659	519074453	Simple Solutions: Bedrooms	Books	3	2	2	N	N	okay, but not great	This is not a bad book on bedrooms, if you are just starting out exploring interior decoration.  The pictures are nice and the text fairly informative.  However, for interior design junkies there is no new ground covered here, especially if you already own several books on bedrooms.  I was not inspired by the photos. Probably because the style seems kind of bland to me.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R2O3F0WXHXK3WX	B00006JO6X	403052305	Interior Inspirations: Roger Banks-Pye, Colefax and Fowler	Books	2	4	8	N	N	only for die-hard fans of traditional and country	I like to think of myself as having an eclectic style; I have many influences.  I like some country and traditional elements.  I had heard favorable things about Colefax and Fowler, so I thought this book would be a good representation of English country style. If this is the best, I would hate to see the worst.  I don't think readers that want to explore English country should start with this book.  It might turn them off.  However, long-time fans of tradional and country styles might derive more benefit.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R2DL9K48MRS4LB	1564969215	578908682	Celebrity Bedroom Retreats: Professional Designer Secrets from 40 Star Bedrooms	Books	3	9	10	N	N	The benefit depends on your purpose for reading it	This book is best as a novelty item, rather than an informative interior design book.  You might find inspiration from this book, but not many helpful tips.<br />Pluses:<br />All the rooms are opulent, but the book shows many different styles.  If you like the stars in the book, it will probably interesting to see how their personalities are tanslated into their design style.<br />Minuses:<br />If you want to copy a star's style, it might be difficult to translate the ideas from an unlimited budget to one that is more realistic for the average person. There is no substantive information about the stars themselves in addition to information from their designers about the rooms.<br /><br />Recommendation:<br />If you want to see how the other half live, then this book is for you.  It also would be a fun gift. Those on a limited budget can probably find more useful books on interior decoration.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R6FIYTCN2DMM6	1571458204	476057151	The Essential Guide to Decorating	Books	3	1	2	N	N	okay, but not great	I really liked the projects in this book, but that is because I have seen the results in so many other books and magazines.  For example, in every decorating book there seems to be a project on how to create decorative screens.  Furthermore, although they are nice projects, it may take an expert craftsman and seamstress to do them, if the intructions in the book are followed.  Also, for a book that is suppose to be a general one on decorating, very few styles are represented. On the plus side, the author does cover the basics and the photos are decent.<br />Recommendation:<br />Mr. Lee has other books on decoration, so if you like those you might like this one.  However, for everyone else, there are other books that are more &quot;essential&quot; for your collection than this one.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	RAMTVOUJ3N3XR	069621430X	124790650	Collections: Projects & Ideas to Display Your Treasures (Better Homes & Gardens)	Books	1	18	18	N	N	Only for die hard fans	The version of Collections that I read had a diferent cover so maybe the one on Amazon(.com) is a newer/better edition, but I doubt its better.  I've read a few books on collections and have yet to be satisfied by any of them.  I think that collections are a difficult topic to cover because no one book can cover every collection out there, and the choice of which collections to present must be diffiult one.  That said, these books should at least have collections displayed in such a way that the ideas can be applied to a wide variety of collections.  However, these book seem to either present the collections in an ideosyncratic manner or in so basic a manner you could figure it out for yourself.<br />Recommendation:<br />I think the people that will enjoy this book will be the ones that happen to find their particular collection within its pages.  Otherwise, every other decorating book can give you some ideas.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	RHQGUGL9GUN9O	2850187321	65487200	Bathrooms (Elle Decor Portfolios)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Disappointed	I love Elle Decor magazine, but I did not care for this book, or any of the other ones in this series for that matter.  The photos are decent, but the decor in the pictures don't seem to be as good as it is in the magazine.  I think that there are other books on bathrooms that would be more satisfying.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	RX0FTYJABEXO6	1579590268	658191219	Compact Living	Books	4	26	27	N	N	very useful	I rent my apartment, but I found many of the ideas in Compact Living to be useful.  For example, instead of buying a dining room table I just use a small table and chair like on pg. 9.  Such a simple idea, but I was in the mind set that a dining room table had to be of a certain size to be useful.  That is what this book is good at...helping you look at your space, no matter what size it is, in new ways.  When I have someone over for dinner, I improvise.  I borrow another chair and small table from in my bedroom.  I do agree however, that home owners will derive more benefit from this book, than those that rent.<br />  I also had not been so familiar with &quot;Loft Style&quot; before this, but now I know I like it.  However, I think the tips in the book can be applied to many different styles, even though the style shown in the pictures is primarily Loft Style.<br />Recommendation:  This is a book primarily for people who live in small spaces, but I think it would also appeal to a wide range of people.	2002-12-17
US	37388532	R2RL3H3BAYTVEH	0823020819	343541659	The Gilded Room: Decorating with Metallic Effects, from Metal Leaf to Powders, Pastes and Paints	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not usually a fan of metallic colors	If I wanted to paint something metallic, this would be the book I would go to for instructions .  If I hadn't just bought a bunch of other interior decoration books, I would have bought this one.  The projects were very creative and inspiring and surprisingly untacky.  This book would be a fun addition to any design junkies library.<br />Pluses:<br />It has a wide variety of projects, easy to understand technical info, instructions and tools listed in great detail.<br />Bonus:<br />Several pages of color swatches for every type of paint effect and metallic color imaginable.<br />Minus:<br />If you were expecting 70's metallic wallpaper, don't buy this book.<br />Recommendation: Buy this book!	2002-12-16
US	37388532	R1NU0T3A36VF8G	0932944981	796772475	Choosing a Color Scheme	Books	1	20	20	N	N	Choose another book.	There are so many books on interior decoration it can be difficult to choose among them.  This book makes it easy.  Just say no.<br />Pluses:<br />None that I can see.<br />Minuses:<br />I do not think the photos in this book save it.  I think that the photos are outdated, meaning, they have ugly decorating schemes by way of the 80s, and we are not talking cool retro here.  For a book that is suppose to instruct you on color, they sure choose some horrible color combinations.<br />Recommendation: Don't bother wasting your time with this book.<br />Better Sources (in no particular order):<br />All these books have beautiful photos.<br />1) Think Color by Tricia Guild - good for inspiration.  The book shows a very bold use of color.<br />2) Color Your Home Beautiful: Ideas and Solutions - has a variety of well-chosen color combinaions in a variety of styles, dozens of color swatches, useful tips, and quotes from designers.<br />3) Color in Your Home by Evelegh - mostly for those of you who like modern country and/or feminine (but not overdone) color schemes.  Plus, one of the best primers on how to use color.<br />4) The Color Design File by Geddes-Brown - mostly for those of you who like Loft and/or Modern style.  Covers the basics, but few useful written tips for design junkies. Very personal writing style.	2002-12-16
US	37388532	R3O4T0C3FLVXWX	1561585262	692011077	Taunton's Home Storage Idea Book	Books	2	45	55	N	N	Little enthousiasm for this book	I agree that the book shows a wide variety of storage options available, which is what saves this book from 1 star.  However, it only shows one style of interior decoration, and an outdated one at that.  Most of the pictures are just so-so.<br />Recommendation:  Choose a different book.<br />Better Source:<br />I think Simple Solutions Storage Space by Cahill is a good book.  It shows a wider variety of design styles, and they are ones that are more likely to stand the test of time.  Plus, it also shows a wide variety of storage options in a wide variety of rooms.	2002-12-16
US	37388532	R1DNSV974M1EOU	0517707632	28124665	The Domain Book of Intuitive Home Design: How to Decorate Using Your Personality Type	Books	1	21	23	N	N	Disappointed	I guess I must be one of the few people that didn't like this book.  The quiz may be simple, but it is not very helpful.  I was excited to learn what personality Type I was, but when I looked at the photos, I didn't feel like it fit my design style.  I think that only four styles is way too few to encompass the varity that is present in interior decoration.  I was also disappointed in a similar book called Yes/No Design. Sometimes, if a book doesn't have very useful tips, but beautiful photos, I might still buy the book.  The photos don't save this book from the reject pile.<br />  I think that people are much better off choosing their own unique style of interior decoration then trying to have it dictated to them by a quiz.  Sometimes, interior decoration is about breaking the rules and going with your own intuition.<br />Recommendation: There are other books that will give you better guidance towards developing your own style.  Good luck!<br />Other Resources:<br /><br />The Ultimate Home Style Guide by Katherine Sorrell is the best book on the broadest range of styles that I have seen.  Almost all styles are represented here with enough details on colors, fabrics, and other style elements to create the looks yourself.<br />The Architecture and Design Library series are excellent primers on different design styles.  Each book focusess on one style, such as eastern style, Arts &amp; Crafts, French Country, and Retro Modern to name just a few.<br />Color in Your Home by T. Evelegh has one of the best primers on how to use color.  The photos are beautiful. The style is modern country and/or feminine (but not overdone) color schemes.<br />Color Design File by Geddes-Brown also does a great job of covering the basics, and there are beautiful photos.  I like the fact that there are pockets for swatches and magazine inspirations.  This book shows primarily Loft style.	2002-12-16
US	37388532	R3RMFFGRYJS78I	185029979X	163107892	Mary Gilliatt's New Guide to Decorating (Conran Value Editions)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	not really new	I think that there are other books that are better guides to decorating.  Mary Gilliat herself put together a better book than this one called Mary Gilliat's Interior Design Course.<br />Pluses:<br />There are some good descriptions of paint techniques and window treatments.<br />Minuses:<br />False advertising-The photos are outdated.<br />Recommendation:<br />Buy her other book or another decorating guide.<br />Better Sources:<br />1000 Practical Ideas for Home Decoration, Decorating your First Apartment, or the Art of Interior Design by Woloszynska	2002-12-16
US	37388532	R1TMAVERBYIR6V	1567994946	622249198	The Comfortable Home: Stylish Ideas for Living	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Look elsewhere for style and comfort	I wonder if the other reviewer and I looked at the same book.  I found the photos to be outdated.  The style was a by way of the 80's  and I'm not talking cool retro.  So, I did not find the book to be very inspiring.  I was hoping for it to have more of an Arts and Crafts feel, or be along the lines of the Not So Big House series, which I recommend instead of this book.	2002-12-16
US	37388532	R20UXKHT4Y0Q39	1588161994	256519395	HouseBeautiful DecoratingStyle	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Not very stylish	I usually like House Beautiful books. They may not have very substantive text, but the photos are usually gorgeous. The pictures in this book did not save it from going in my reject pile. The book just left me bored. Those of you who have the previous House Beautiful Decorating with Style book, and were hoping this new version was updated, you are in for a disappointment like myself. It is a rehash of the previous edition.<br />Better sources:<br />1)The Ultimate Home Style Guide by Katherine Sorrell - almost all styles are representd here with enough details on colors, fabrics, and style elements to create the look yourself.<br />2) Homes & Gardens Book of Design - I don't much care for Homes & Gardens magazine, but I like this book. Good for inspiration. Shows beautiful photos of many different styles.	2002-12-16
US	37388532	RD32QF2SH05GS	0804816115	398942583	Japan the Art of Living	Books	1	20	34	N	N	expecting something different	If you are looking for examples of the zen and minimalist aspects of Japanese style, then this is the wrong book for you.<br />Pluses:<br />Some of the pictures are interesting, and I liked many of the cultural aspects of the book.<br />Minuses:<br />Some of the pictures reminded me of the elaborate and glitzy decor of some Westernized Asian restaurants.<br />Recommendation:<br />If you are interested in all aspects of Japanese style, this book might interest you.  Everyone else should avoid buying this book.	2002-12-16
US	37388532	R1W0QEEM0OELQH	0376012641	237536372	Color for Your Home	Books	2	57	58	N	N	Not the best book of its kind	I was not impressed with this book.  The pictures were so-so and showed a narrow range of styles.  I thought the color choices were boring and outdated. There are so many other books that do a better job of instructing you on how to work with color, and I list a few of them below.<br />Recommendation: Skip this book.<br />Better sources (if you really want to use color):<br />Color Your Home Beautiful: Ideas and Solutions<br />This book gives you a broader range of color palettes than Color for Your Home and a broader range of styles (although if you like hard core modern, you might want to skip this book because it is just about the only style that isn't represented).  Plus, the photos are beautiful.<br />The Color Design File by L. Geddes-Brown<br />The design style is funky modern.  She does a good job of covering the basics, and there are beautiful photos.  I like the fact that there are pockets for your magazine inspirations.  The only drawback is she waxes poetic quite a bit in describing colors, but some people might enjoy a more personal style.<br />Color in Your Home by T. Evelegh<br />Yes, it has almost the same title, but what a difference a word can make.  This is a great book for beginners.  This book describes the basics of using color in easy to understand language and with many examples.  Instead of being sectioned by color, it is sectioned off into neutrals, pastels, the mid-tones, the brights, and the deep tones.  Like the other books, it has beautiful photos.	2002-12-15
US	37388532	R2DBAIKKI96R0K	1564968421	826111729	The Right Storage: Organizing Essentials for the Home	Books	1	7	7	N	N	The Right Storage is the Wrong Book	The photos in this book are only so-so.  There are some interesting tips for making your own storage containers, but their so called &quot;clever&quot; storage solutions are not very clever.  This book seems outdated.  A better book is Simple Solutions Storage Space by Cahill.	2002-12-15
US	37388532	R1QDA9JVLVH1C0	0764312111	873934190	Great Kitchen Designs: A Visual Feast of Ideas and Resources (Schiffer Design Book)	Books	1	5	5	N	N	The ideas are not so great	If you like tradional style kitchens, then this may be useful to you.  Otherwise, I suggest you skip it.  The tips are not very informative and the pictures are so-so.  Better books are Better Homes and Gardens: Complete Kitchens and the Kitchen Planner (this one especially if you are remodeling your home).	2002-12-15
US	37388532	RBRR0CGS68BYG	1564964701	519024940	The Kitchen & Bath Color Book	Books	2	5	6	N	N	not useful	For a book that has color in its title, it sure does not show it in its pages.  There is only a meek use of color, and what use of color there is in the book, is in a limited range.  The design style is outdated or poorly done traditional and country.  I recommend you skip this book.	2002-12-15
US	37388532	R2YUD1IYIQH0Q4	1841721603	941281026	Apartment: Stylish Solutions for Apartment Living	Books	3	18	20	N	N	These apartments are not like any in which I have ever lived	The only way a person could have one of the apartments in this book is if they were a character on Friends or a stockbroker on Wall street.  The style is a mix of modern and traditional.  The photos are beautiful.  However, what you can take from this book may be limited and may depend upon your purpose.<br />Recommendation:<br />If you are looking for a book on decorating tips and projects to improve your apartment, then skip this book.  If you were wondering how the other half live or want to be inspired, then try this book.	2002-12-15
US	37388532	R22GBRTL80CP8Y	0706372751	922744180	Creative Interior Design: A Complete Guide to Designing and Decorating Your Home	Books	2	0	0	N	N	not very creative	I would have given this book 1 star, except the other reviewer seems so enthousiastic about this book, it must have some reedeeming qualities. I, however, do not see them.  I dislike this book primarily for the decorating style. It looks like a garden exploded in all the rooms.  Imagine floral chintz and pouffy window treatments by way of the 1980s.  Yep, you guessed it, the pictures are outdated.  Perhaps, the decorating tips in this book would be useful to some people, but the decorating style is so repulsive to me, I couldn't take them seriously.  A better book that shows a wider range of design styles, and is a wonderful primer on decorating techniques is 1000 Practical Ideas for Home Decoration.	2002-12-15
US	37388532	R1PMKDEEMVY0HT	0811836703	174555640	Think Color: Rooms to Live In	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Inspiring	The only other book I have looked at by Tricia Guild, I did not like.  So imagine my surprise when I liked this one enough to buy it.<br />If you are wanting to learn the basics of color, you are looking at the wrong book.  However, if you want to be inspired and love color, this is the book for you. The photos are gorgeous.  The author gives a personal touch to her decorating tips without being overbearing.<br />I would give this book 5 stars, except it only shows examples of one style, funky modern. I define funky modern as having the simplicity of minimalism without its cold austerity and with the bold use of color and India-style fabric.  Because I happen to like this style, I like this book.  If you like country or traditional styles, you probably won't.<br />Recommendation: If you love color, buy this book!	2002-12-15
US	37388532	R1TE9NRQD59GXF	1567997791	256635780	Creative Home Design: Rooms for Everyday Living	Books	2	2	2	N	N	not very creative	With the word creative in the title I was expecting a more original style of decorating, or at least a broader range of styles.  Instead, the style of this book is primarily tradional/cosmopolitan.  I do not like that style, so that is probably why I don't like this book.  I found it rather boring.  The photos are not too bad, but nothing special. I have to admit I was too turned off by the photos to bother reading much of the text, so perhaps the written information would be more useful to people, but I doubt it.  Two other definitely more useful books would be The Kitchen Planner and Better Homes and Gardens Complete Kitchens.  I reccomend that you skip this book.	2002-12-15
US	37388532	R3BNXTUU7S5D1G	0376017201	766208974	Ideas for Great Wall Systems	Books	2	12	13	N	N	Only worth a quick glance	Pluses: The book gives you a general overview of what types of wall systems are available.<br />Minuses: the photos are mostly boring and/or outdated.<br />Recommendation: Many of the books in the Ideas for Great series are useful.  However, this book is not one of them.  I would skip it or check it out from the library.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	RV6J7OJ2YSWOO	156799928X	780672993	Simple Solutions: Bathrooms	Books	3	4	5	N	N	good secondary source	I'm also a decorating junkie like the previous reviewer.  However, I am not as enthousiastic about this book.<br />+s:<br />I think this is a solid book with nice photos and informative tips.  I especially like the fact that this book has representations of many diferent styles.  Not all books on bathrooms do.<br />-s:<br />The pictures while nice, did not go out and inspire me to redecorate my bathroom.<br />recommendation:<br />I think if you particularly like books on bathrooms, or if you are planning on redecorating your bathroom and want a secondary source for ideas, this book might be a good choice.  Other people would probably want to skip this book.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	R1GHRIRIQNBL0I	1580110096	408059136	The Smart Approach to Bath Design	Books	1	1	1	N	N	skip this book	The photos are boring and/or out dated.  It does not give you very useful tips.  There are other books on bathrooms that are much better such as House Beautiful Bathrooms.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	R3QFZHC0485HNA	0696213478	459728423	Complete Kitchens: Plan & Build Your Dream Kitchen (Better Homes & Gardens)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well worth the money	+s:<br />The tips in the book are both substantive and informative.  The book covers all areas of remodeling from designing a floorplan to selecting and installing cabinets.<br />-s:<br />This book has very few photos.<br />recommendation:<br />A MUST HAVE for anyone remodeling or redecorating their kitchen and a good addition to the book collection of any decorating junkie.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	RWMT7O5UOSZG	0696211971	109094693	Decorating Basics: Styles, Colors, Furnishings (Better Homes & Gardens)	Books	2	38	42	N	N	Not such a great deal	The price may be cheap but you get what you pay for.  I think that there are other books out there that do a better job of introducing interior decoration to first timers.  This book did not show a wide range of design styles and the pictures are starting to look out-dated.<br />Recommendation:  Choose another book.<br />Other Sources:  If you want a better basic introduction to interior decoration, I suggest 1000 Practical Ideas for Home Decoration.  This book even has tips for those who are design junkies. It has beautiful photographs, and many different styles are represented.  Plus, the author has a great sense of humor.  If you want to learn more about different design styles in particular, a good choice is The Ultimate Home Style Guide by Katherine Sorrell, or try the books from the Architecture and Design Library.  They have books on styles ranging from Arts & Crafts to Retro Modern and from India Style to Mediterranean Style.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	R3M5EKAMCWMWK6	1400046106	72884301	Anne McKevitt's Style Solutions: 365 of the Freshest Looks, Smartest Tips & Best Advice for Your Home	Books	2	5	7	N	N	not the freshest, smartest, or best advice for my home	The red cover of this book caught my eye.  I had never heard of Anne McKevitt, but thought I would give the book a chance.  I was not rewarded for this effort.  The pictures are only so-so.  I did not find the projects to be inspiring.  If you like to do crafty projects you might want to give this book a chance.  However, if you are looking for a general book on style, there are other choices available that are much better, such as The Ultimate Home Style Guide by Katherine Sorrell.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	R90JIZYO5Y0I1	0376013192	142328136	Ideas for Great Bathrooms	Books	1	21	21	N	N	Look for ideas in other books	I like many of the books in the Ideas for Great series.  However, I was disappointed with this one.  The photos are only so-so.  They are not very inspiring, and the bathrooms are limited in style choices.  The tips also left something to be desired.  They were not very substantive or informative.  I would skip this book.  If you want a bathroom book with great photos, take a look at House Beautiful Bathrooms.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	RPI72707VIK15	0376017929	684504003	Reinvent Your Kitchen	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Look for another way to &quot;reinvent&quot; your kitchen	I was expecting this book to have some instructions or tips for remodeling a kitchen, or advice about different gadgets I could install, or show decorative objects I could display, but it is mostly a book on instructions for cutesy little projects.  However, unlike the other reviewers, I was neither charmed or nor inspired.  These are projects you can find in most other non-kitchen books on interior decoration.  If the photos were great, that would make up for the lack of substantive information, but they are not.  My recommendation is to skip this book.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	R1CYWZ8VLA3GCC	1588160238	831184739	House Beautiful Art: Decorating with Art at Home	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Disappointed	I usually love House Beautiful books, but this one did nothing for me.  Typically, the photos are beautiful, as the name indicates, but not in this case.  They were boring. The book did not show a wide range of artistic styles or medium, nor did it give a wide range of ideas for displaying ones art.  You can find just as many ideas for displaying your art in a &quot;general&quot; interior design book.  I recommend you skip this book or check it out from the library.	2002-12-14
US	37388532	R2TX3QB5P7ZEIR	1580110770	202950463	Creating Beautiful Bathrooms: Design Tips, Remodeling Ideas, Building Projects	Books	2	1	2	N	N	of limited use	This book has very few pictures, but many useful tips.  I gave it only 2 stars because I would have liked to see how the tips and instructions translated into actual bathrooms.  I did not find this book to be very inspiring, but it might be more useful to someone who is remodeling their bathroom.	2002-12-13
US	37388532	R266DUGOR35BP6	0688097340	661418113	House Beautiful Decorating Style	Books	3	9	11	N	Y	Check it out from the library or skip it	I love House Beautiful books.  They always have stunning photographs. However, the composition of these photographs will not save this book.  I think that a few years ago I might have given this book a higher rating, but unfortunately, the rooms are starting to look dated.  Also, for a book titled \\"Decorating Style,\\" there are not very many different styles represented here.  All the rooms are traditional or country.  I have to admit I didn't read the text, I figured why bother?  I did read some of the captions, but they just describe in words what the picture shows you.<br />I'm glad that I checked this book out from the library instead of buying it.  I think that there is an updated version of this book.  That might be a better choice.  Or, if you are looking for a book where many different styles are represented, then check amazon.com for<br />The Ultimate Home Style Guide by Katherine Sorrell.  All the major styles are represented (e.g. asian, scandinavian, carribean, arts & crafts, minimalism, retro, etc.) not just traditional and country.	2002-12-13
US	37388532	RQKH7SDVNENI	1581803222	282188945	Color in Your Home	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Beautiful and Smart too	What caught my eye when I bought this book was the photographs; they are stunning.  I admire the bold use of color and the fact that different design styles are represented. Also, one could copy these styles on either a limited or unlimited budget.  Imagine how pleased I was when I discovered how informative the text was too.<br />I agree with the previous reviewer that this is a good primer on color.  In the first section of the book there is a list of color terms, and then the book discusses how to choose colors, how to harmonize colors, how to choose contrasting tones, how to mix colors, describes color proportions, color accents, and how to plan a color scheme.<br />The other sections show examples of different shades of color and gives informative tips on using these colors.  There are sections on neutrals, pastels, mid-tones, brights, and deep tones.<br />I highly recommend this book to everyone, but especially people who are just begining to explore the world of interior decoration.	2002-12-13
US	37388532	R3P3CH1JFMGLUB	0696207400	797817362	New Remodeling Book: Your complete guide to planning a dream project	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A good buy for everyone	I'm not planning on remodeling my home in the near future, but after looking through this book, I had to buy it.  The information is useful to both people who are and who are not planning on remodeling.<br />Benefits for those who are going to remodel:<br />This book is jammed backed with information! It shows you how to evaluate your house and neighborhood before you remodel, how to &quot;finesse&quot; a floorplan and what is involved with remodeling (e.g. the section on working with contractors), it discusses potential problems and pitfalls to avoid when remodeling, it has case studies (the problem, &quot;the program,&quot; the cure), it has information on both interior and exterior remodeling with special sections on bathrooms and kitchens.  It discusses different materials and many different types of changes you can make to your house.<br />Benefits for both interior design junkies and those who are just starting out:<br />This book is a good primer on both interior and exterior design.  It cotains general information on house types and exterior color combinations.  This book has a section on how to enhance existing interior space, and the pictures throughout the book can be used as inspiration for redecorating projects, in addition to remodeling projects.<br />Minuses:  There is only one interior style represented here, a mix of traditional and country.  The exteriors are primarily arts &amp; crafts and traditional styles.  I'm sure the style was created to appeal to the broadest range of people, which is a plus for the publishers, but a drawback to those who have a more individual style.  However, I think that the information on remodeling can be applied to many styles.<br />Recommendation:<br />I would recommend this book to anyone!	2002-12-13
US	37388532	RT6NODMEDEGHZ	1855857294	218661943	The Ultimate Decorating Book: Over 1,000 Decorating Ideas For All The Rooms In Your Home	Books	1	2	4	N	N	In trying to be everything, this book gives you nothing.	Pluses:<br />None as far as I can see.<br />Minuses:<br />This book tries to cover so many topics, it can only give you a little bit of info on each.  I could forgive the lack of substantive information, if the pictures made up for it, but they don't.  They are very boring and most seem outdated.  In trying to appeal to the broadest range of people, the book misses the ideosyncracies of different interior decoration styles.<br />Recommendation:<br />I would skip this book.  There are so many more interior decoration books that are so much better.  Better Homes and Gardens and House Beautiful books are usually pretty good.  Also, the Architecture and Design Library books are good sources for differnt styles.	2002-12-13
US	37388532	R3OQIIOHTKK9GV	0821221949	378361795	The Curtain Book: A Sourcebook for Distinctive Curtains, Drapes, and Shades for Your Home	Books	2	24	26	N	N	Of limited use	I did not find this book to be very inspirational.  The only reason I gave it 2 stars instead 1 is because this book would be beneficial to some people.  If you like traditional style, like the other reviewers of this book obviously do, this book is probably for you.  Everyone else can find other books that give the same level of technical instructions with more range of styles and better photos.  The book has a lot of sketches instead of actual photos.	2002-12-13
US	37388532	RA8WR6L6MPKW8	1564966259	407657713	Color Therapy at Home: Real-Life Solutions for Adding Color to Your Life	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Color Choice Quiz seperates this book from the pack	Pluses:<br />The photographs in this book are great. As you might imagine with a book by this title there is a bold use of color.  The style is modern, but will probably stand the test of time.  I like the way the book is sectioned into chapters that fit a particular mood you might want to create (e.g.  colors for fantasy).  Also, there are general decorating tips scattered throughout the book.<br />Bonus:<br />The color choice quiz.  Listed from A-Z all the emotions/moods you could ask for.  You choose which emotions/moods you want to promote in a room.  Then, you look at the color choice key to see which color matches those emotions/moods.<br />Minuses:<br />After buying the book and looking at it more carefully, I realized something...it has some of the same pictures as a book which I also own titled Color Healing Home by Katherine Sorrell. For example, check out pg. 27 of Color Healing and pg.63 of Color Therapy.<br />How to differentiate between the two: Color Therapy focuses more on how to promote moods.  It lists moods and tells you what colors enhance that mood.  Color Healing Home gives you more choices of color hue. They have a page for each hue and then tell you what moods each of these hues promote.  You say tomatoe and I say tomato. I decided to keep both books, but I am a color junkie.<br />Recommendation:<br />What makes Color Therapy standout is the color choice quiz. If that is something that interests you, I would recommend this book.  Otherwise, it is a coin toss between Color Therapy and Color Healing, and other books with bold uses of color.	2002-12-13
US	37388532	R2OABZZPDW627B	0688174620	347082074	Calm Working Spaces	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I recommend this book to everyone.	This book gives very good general tips on designing and decorating your home office.  The pictures are beautiful and show a wide variety of styles.  The book describes the benefits of different types of furniture.  It also gives you sources for where to get the products in the photos.<br />Bonus: It has a section titled &quot;work-space basics&quot; which give you tips for floor planning, safety (e.g. outlets and cords), heating and cooling, and security.<br />I recommend this book to any one who is setting up a home office or wants tips to refresh the home office they already have.	2002-12-12
US	37388532	R1J6DRN0HVJTPE	1586631187	927512631	India Style	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A good basic primer on India Style	This book has beautiful photographs of both interiors and exteriors.  Most elements of this style, as shown in this book, can be translated by people wanting to incorporate India style into their home.  The book tells you which design elements in each photo represent India Style.  This book brings India style into the present while still paying homage to the past.<br />Like other books in the Architectual &amp; Design Library series, this book is great for people who are just starting to explore a style and/or people who want to add a book representative of a style to their collection.<br />I recommend this book to everyone.	2002-12-12
US	37388532	R2XDRR28DS0VAN	0696215551	12988903	Style On a Budget (Better Homes & Gardens)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Beautiful pictures, but misses its target group	I have to admit I bought this book because of the pictures, and not because it supposedly would show me how to create style on a budget.  Good thing.<br />The pluses: The pictures are beautiful, they give you a wide variety of tips that don't require a lot of sewing or a class in woodshop, and the color combinations are inspirational.<br />Bonus: the section titled &quot;decorator's toolkit&quot; and the section titled &quot;furniture arranging on paper.&quot;  The former lists handy tools and how to store them, instructions on creating a &quot;style file,&quot; and how to arrange furniture.  The latter gives you instructions and cutouts for arranging elements of a room on paper.<br />The minuses: It does not have a very wide range of style of decorating.  I think they designed the style to appeal to the broadest range of people, kind of modern country.  Also, I'm not so sure you can create this style on a small budget. I like the way they categorize chapters by where you can buy the combinations in the pictures (i.e. there is a chapter called &quot;superstore stand-ins&quot; and one called &quot;secondhand savy&quot;), but they do not list where you could actually find the pieces in the pictures.  I guess you are just suppose to know to go to Target.<br />I would reccommend this book to people just starting to explore interior decoration, but I would not recommend this book to people on a strict budget, which is the group this book is supposedly targeting.<br />As a general interior design book it gets 4 stars, but as a book to help you budget I give it 1 star.	2002-12-12
US	37388532	R33SE7WEAPDF7X	156799363X	570009503	Arts & Crafts:  Architecture and Design Library	Books	4	41	41	N	N	Well-done representation of the spirit of arts and crafts	This was the first book on the arts and crafts movement I read, and I have only read a few since then, so you can take my opinion with a grain of salt.  What I was looking for, and found in this book, is an overview of the arts and crafts style.  What I like about it, but one of the other on-line reviewers did not, is that it uses arts and crafts movement as inspiration, and brings it into modern times.  However, it does this without losing the feel and goals of the style.  It has beautiful photos and tells you which elements of design in each photo is specific to the arts and crafts movement.  Also, it not only has photos of interior rooms, but also of exteriors.  Pictures of original elements are inluded.  For example there is a picture of the \\"Gamble House\\" and Frank Lloyd Wright's own dining room.<br />I think anyone would like this book, but I would specifically recommend it to people who are starting out exploring the arts and crafts movement and want to see if they like it, or those who want a simple book that represents the spirit of the movement.  People who are die hard admirers of arts and crafts may want to check out other books.	2002-12-12
US	37388532	R3GYTQ4OZLIB8G	1579903355	81618923	Decorating Your First Apartment: From Moving In to Making It Your Own	Books	5	16	16	N	N	I love this book and I am not decorating my first apartment	Parents definitely buy this book for your college-going kids!  Others will enjoy it as well, but the style will most appeal to people under 40.  The style is kind of funky-modern.  I just bought the book, so I have not read the whole thing, but so far so good.  It has instructions and materials lists for creating all the looks in the photos which is lacking in many interior design books.  It also has general decorating tips.<br />Bonus: It describes typical problems to look for in an apartment and how to evaluate an apartment for these problems.  It describes potential problems and red tape with the landlord, and how to avoid them, and it explains the renter's contract as well.<br />If you have just started exploring interior decoration, or are looking for your first apartment or tips to refresh your current one, buy this book!	2002-12-12
US	37388532	R2OOSOQQZ8KX9E	0696210975	407100201	Real Life Decorating: Your Life, Your Style, Your Home	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Limited in style, but has useful tips	Here are what I think are the pluses and minuses of this book:<br />Pluses: The &quot;style primer&quot; section gives tips on color and paint, proportion and scale, furniture and floor plans, art and arranging, patterns and fabric, accessories and collections, lighting and lamps, storage and display, and sources and resources.  This section alone will probably be worth the cost of the book to most people.  Most of these tips can be generalized to different styles.  Also the tips at the end of each case study can be useful to many people.<br />Minuses: However, the case studies themselves leave something to be desired.  Even though the book supposedly shows the homes of a cross section of people, the style is the same through out the book.  What I call &quot;modern country.&quot;  It has a country feel, but more choices of color than traditional country and some unusual eye catching design-elements.<br />If your style is modern country, or if you like a wide variety of styles and want a book representative of this type of style for your book colletion, like I did, then you will enjoy this book.  Everyone else might want to pass.	2002-12-12
US	37388532	R1G2U53LNURVM9	0847819779	906777563	In Town: Contemporary Design for Urban Living	Books	1	4	4	N	N	I wish Tricia Guild would get out of town!	I was not impressed with this book, and I like color. The text was not useful. If there are no tips or they are not informative, I will still buy a book if it has beautiful pictures. However, I was not creatively inspired by this book. I think the design choices are boring. I'm glad I did not buy this book.<br />Other resource:<br />Another of Tricia Guild's books titled Think Color is so much better.  Her bold use of color in this book is both refreshing and inspiring.	2002-12-11
US	37388532	R3FM5TJBSO1704	1588161013	221441023	House Beautiful Lighting: Inspiring Ideas for Light Effects, from Simple to Spectacular	Books	4	9	9	N	N	long on beautiful short on technique	I bought this book because House Beautiful books always have gorgeous photographs, and I was hoping to learn more about lighting techniques.  I am very satisfied with the former, but unhappy with the latter.  For each picture they give a lighting tip, and describe the picture.  However, the tips are very general, you could figure them out for yourself, and are therefore, not very informative.  And, if you look at the picture you don't need the description they give.  The only reason I give this book four stars is for the pictures.  They are beautiful and do show different forms of light in various situations.  If you like the magazine, you will like the style of the rooms shown in the book.  However, if you want to learn lighting techniques, i.e. how to set up task lighting versus accent lighting, I suggest you find another book.	2002-12-09
US	37388532	R3GZ9FC2W31CM6	0688150985	134653994	House Beautiful Storage	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Yes, it is pretty.  So what?	My purpose in buying this book was to inspire me, not to tell me exactly where to hang a shelf.  If you want step by step instructions, obviously, this is not the book for you.  However, if you enjoy interior decoration as an art form or an outlet for creativity, or, yes, to look at pretty pictures, you will enjoy this book.	2002-12-08
