US	37426920	RN49ONTHXM0Q2	1585675458	221333080	Old Boys	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well written, interesting, but too convoluted!!	Paul Christopher has turned up dead, or at least his ashes have been returned to his family by the Chinese government.  Horace Hubbard, Paul's cousin and also a CIA agent hopes, against all odds, that Paul is still alive and enlists the help of other ex-CIA contemporaries, all advanced in their years.  Hence the title, \\"Old Boys!\\" <br /> <br />Horace discovers that Paul was searching for his MOTHER (!!) now well into her 90s and thought dead for many years.  Lori Christopher, Paul's mother, had disappeared after being forced into sexual servitude by Reinhard Heydrich the notorious Nazi.    <br /> <br />In addition to this geriatric group of \\"has beens\\" Paul's beautiful daughter Zarah is enlisted in the effort to discover what happened to Paul and his mother.  His mother is in possession of a first-century document (which she obtained through Heydrich) supposedly \\"the report of a Roman official sent on a secret mission to Judea around the time of the Crucifixion to investigate a Roman covert action operation that went wrong.\\" This scroll possibly exposes Jesus of Nazareth as \\"an unwitting asset of Roman intelligence,\\" and is also being sought by a radical Islamist and recurring McCarry foe, Ibn Awad <br /> <br />If you think the basic plot is convoluted you ain't seen nothing yet.  McCarry takes the reader on a geography trip through the remotest regions of China and the surrounding environs.  The story, particularly the first century scroll part stretch credulity.  McCarry also has his group of \\"old boys\\" performing feats of derring do that are beyond the pale of belief.  <br /> <br />This was not my favorite McCarry novel - in fact it is my least favorite so far.  But given the sad state of today's sorry fare I would still recomend this book as a good read.	2005-09-21
US	37426920	R24Q9FAM8O79JI	0895260387	127908019	How The Catholic Church Built Western Civilization	Books	5	58	63	N	N	A refreshing anecdote to the incessant Catholic bashing.	Thomas Woods is no shill for the Catholic Church.  He is a professional historian with degrees from Harvard and Columbia and he brings to bear a depth of analysis that is up to the task he has chosen.  No serious Catholic would ever contend that churchmen have been correct in every decision they've made over the millennia.  Catholics have always distinguished between the holiness of the Church as an institution guided by the Holy Spirit and the sinfulness of men including those who serve the Church    But the Church has been vilified, particularly in the past 25 years, as an evil institution responsible for many, if not all, of the problems of the world.  The Church's history has been distorted and changed by post-modern revisionists whose purpose is evidently the destruction of that one institution that blocks their unquenchable ambition for total domination of our culture.    This book demonstrates that the Catholic Church was the primary builder of Western civilization playing an indispensable role in the development of modern science, Western law, the idea of \\"formulated rights,\\" modern scientific economics, the modern university system, and, of course, the artistic inheritance of the West.  No minor accomplishments.  The monks, particularly the Benedictine monks were indispensable for protecting and copying the great works of literature from antiquity during the post-Charlemagne destruction of civilization by the barbarian and Islamic hordes.  Additionally the monks made contributions in agriculture and science which are often overlooked.  The contributions to all fields of scientific endeavor owe an enormous debt of gratitude to the Jesuits whose contributions are nearly unimaginable.      Virtually ignored, is the crucial role played by the Church in the development of modern science.  Far from hindering the development of science, Christian ideas helped to make it possible.    The author argues persuasively that it is no coincidence that the birth of scienceas a self-perpetuating field of intellectual endeavor should have occured in a Catholic milieu.  Non Christian cultures on the other hand did not possess the same philosophical tools, and indeed were burdened by conceptual frameworks that hindered the development of science.    Historian Edward Grant said, \\"What made it possible for Western civilization to develop science and the social sciences in a way that no other civilization had ever done before?  The answer lies in a pervasive and deep-seated spirit of inquiry that was a natural consequence of the emphasis on reason that began in the Middle Ages.  With the exception of revealed truths, reason was enthroned in medieval universities as the ultimate arbiter for most intellectual arguments and controversies.\\"      In reading this book one cannot help but wonder where the rigorous spirit of free inquiry prevalent in the Middle Ages has gone.  Today PC has been substituted for revealed truths.  And reason, cut adrift from revealed truths, can only lead to tragedy which the  20th century aptly demonstrated again and again.  This book, without explicityly saying so, highlights the extent to which post modern nihilism has enfebled us and rendered our once vibrant Western Civlization listless and confused.         This book works as an excellent anecdote to the prevailing politically correct views of the Catholic Church.  This book will highlight the extent to which we've neglected the extraordinary contributions of the Catholic Church.  It really is an eye-opener and a delightful read at that.  If you're tired of the incessant Catholic bashing by nearly every element of the popular culture then this book is for you.	2005-07-28
US	37426920	R1AZNIV2HG52GA	1585676616	891852301	The Tears of Autumn	Books	5	81	87	N	N	Excellent first novel presaging the greatness to come.	This book was out of print just a short while after it was originally published in 1974.  The author, who currently enjoys a bit of a cult status, was an unknown at the time and this book slipped under the radar screen.  But with his popularity growing ever stronger with each of his books, many of which now are out of print, the publisher \\"Overlook\\" has recently republished this book , now available in hardback for all McCarry fans. <br /> <br />This is my first McCarry novel, but it will not be my last.  McCarry tackles the Kennedy assassination in this his first book.  I was a bit reluctant at first to read this book because I was frankly tired of all the silly conspiracy theories revolving around Kennedy's assassination.  I think that the lone crazy assassin theory has been largely vindicated.  I am tired of the ridiculous grassy knoll Oliver Stone nonsense.  These theories held a certain fascination for me when I was much younger, but no more. <br /> <br />This book however approaches the assassination from an entirely different perspective.  I won't give away the plot line by discussing McCarry's theory, but suffice it to say, he does not insult our intelligence.   <br /> <br />This book is a very intelligent, elegant, and cleverly written story about the assassination and the world of espionage.  His story and his characters make sense.  He does not stretch credulity to the breaking point.  I'm not saying that I endorse the theory of this book only that it is plausible.  And that's what makes for such an interesting read.   <br /> <br />Paul Christopher, the protagonist, David Patchen, his Harvard college roommate and now his supervisor, Tom Webster, his case officer, Tom's wife Sybille Webster, and Paul's girlfriend Molly are all immensely likable and believable characters who, no doubt, we will hear from again in later novels.   <br /> <br />If you enjoy historical fiction and have any interest in Vietnam, the Kennedy assassination, and the inner workings ofthe CIA during this period then you will thoroughly enjoy this very good first effort by a fine writer.   <br /> <br />P.J. O'Rourke has called McCarry the \\"absolute best thriller writer alive.\\"  This is very high praise and in this case well deserved praise.	2005-07-28
US	37426920	R1FEVFPEUGG8CO	0440164842	495342112	Noble House (Asian Saga)	Books	5	85	94	N	N	An incredible spellbinding read!!  An all-time favorite!	Ian Dunross, in a driving torrential rain, arrives at the Struan Building in Hong Kong.  There he meets with Alastair Struan, the current tai pan (ultimate ruler) of the Noble House.  At this meeting Struan confers the title of tai pan on Dunross and he must take an oath to uphold the traditions and oaths established by the first tai pan and founder of the Noble House, Dirk Struan, one of the first and certainly the mightiest of the China Traders from the early 19th century.  At this meeting Dunross discovers that a ship containing a disproportionate amount of the Noble House's uninsured wealth has gone down imperiling the House's future.    The book then jumps forward three years, to August of 1963, and the Noble House's financial predicament has grown, if anything, worse.  Linc Bartlett, an American billionaire, and his ambitious and stunningly beautiful protg, K. C. Tcholok arrive in Hong Kong aboard his private Boeing 707 (remember this is 1963).   They are in Hong Kong to establish a presence in the lucrative Oriental markets and to make a deal with the Noble House or one of its competitors.      Hidden in the wheel-well of the jet are rifles, ammunition, and grenades which are strictly prohibited in Hong Kong.  Their origin as well as their purpose is revealed to us gradually as we come to know  the protagonist and current tai-pan, Ian Dunross  and the multitude of complex problems that he must contend with.       We discover early on that there is a Judas Iscariot in the Noble House, the comprador Phillip Chen's son, John Chen, who is inexplicably kidnapped.   Bartlett is playing the Noble House against it's arch-enemy and biggest competitor, Rothwell-Gornt run by Quillan Gornt, a descendant of Tyler Brock who is the arch-enemy of the first tai-pan, Dirk Struan.  Gornt is using his former mistress, Orlanda Ramos, to spy on Bartlett and to manipulate him into a favorable disposition toward his company.    Ian Dunross has a highly secret source of intelligence named Alan Medford Grant from a London Strategic Planning Institute and one of his reports to the tai-pan is intercepted by Roger Crosse of Hong Kong Special Intelligence.  Shortly afterwards Grant turns up dead in England as a result of foul play.  The information in Grant's reports are yet another important element in the complex tale crafted by Clavell.  We learn from the report that the Noble House has a Russian mole within and that there is a mole high up in the Hong Kong government.    Nearly every rivalry and association has its roots in the past dating back to at least the original China traders of the early 19th century.  Clavell does a marvelous job of integrating the past and the present drawing on his knowledge not only of China and the Orient, but of high finance with repeated references to Sun Tzu's \\"Art of War.\\"      Even some of the characters from Clavell's marvelous \\"King Rat\\" make an appearance.  The King himself does not appear and is only alluded to, but Robin Grey, as a labor MP and Socialist sympathizer, and Peter Marlowe, a writer and thinly disguised James Clavell himself do appear.     Clavell is an astute observer of human nature enabling him to craft an amazingly complex and engaging tale tying together a multitude of disparate elements in a believable manner that is too often overlooked in todays half-baked novels.  This book is long at over 1300 pages but well worth the effort.  I would recommend reading Clavell's \\"Tai Pan\\" first, if possible, but this is not mandatory.      I first read this book on a vacation to Harbor Island in 1981 and was so utterly absorbed by the book that I ignored many of my social responsibilities.        I've just completed reading the book again at age 54 and have actually enjoyed it MORE than the first time I read it.  I cannot recommend this book highly enough.	2005-06-09
US	37426920	R3HLO8ABS6H84Y	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A harrowing if improbable tale that will keep you riveted!	Our protagonist, Billy Wiles, is a man with a complex dark past which is alluded to early on but which we are not privy to until half way through the book.  This reclusive quiet bartender entirely without any evident reason whatsoever is chosen by a deranged killer as his next \\"game.\\"  That game entails the framing of Wiles for murders he did not commit.   <br /> <br />Wiles, after speaking to a stranger in his bar, comes out to his car to find a note on his windshield with an impossible ultimatum:  he must choose between the death of a young schoolteacher or and elderly woman active in charity work. <br /> <br />Wiles immediately assumes that this is a prank and takes it to his friend the local sheriff, Lanny Olsen, who also regards it as a prank. <br /> <br />Billy is thrown into a maelstrom of violence and confusion.  I won't reveal any more of the plot details or the outcome, but suffice it to say that Koontz has crafted another harrowing tale - not as well written or conceived as many of his other books, but a worthy effort nonetheless. <br /> <br />I've only given the book four stars because of the improbability of the story.  Some of the plot devices stretch credulity to the limit and the final resolution was a bit half-baked.  But I enjoyed the book, however will not give it to my wife who does not enjoy gratuitously gory and violent story lines.	2005-06-07
US	37426920	R1TPGP2AQAF2G0	0440184622	584625374	Tai-Pan (Asian Saga)	Books	5	84	91	N	N	One of my all-time favorites!	The first time I read Tai Pan was in college 30 years ago.  I picked it up reluctantly, despite a strong recommendation from a friend, because it was about China and Hong Kong about which I had little interest.  But I read it nonetheless and was absolutely transfixed.  I've just finished reading it again at age 54 and can heartily still recommend this book.    This is the story of the founding of Hong Kong as told through the fictional characters of Dirk Struan, his son Cullum, their arch-enemy Tyler Brock and many others.  Dirk Struan is the Tai Pan (supreme leader) of the Noble House, the largest and strongest of the China traders.  Tyler Brock is his sworn enemy since Struan first served aboard an English man-of-war and experienced the lash from Brock's hands as a \\"powder monkey\\" at Trafalgar aboard the 110-gunship Royal Soverign.    Clavell uses Struan as the embodiment of the best virtues of the English system with her rule of law and the Chinese system.  Brock, while not without redeeming qualities, reflects some of the worst features of the English system.  Struan is receptive to the virtues of the Chinese culture while remaining a patriotic Englishman.      Struan has acquired many of the habits of the Chinese including bathing 2-3 times a day (as opposed to the rest of the English who believe that bathing renders one susceptible to the \\"flux\\")  wearing light cloths and boots, and many others.  He takes a Chinese concubine, May-May, and has children by her. His eldest half caste son, Gordon Chen, from a previous concubine plays a major role as well.    Struan is no saint, particularly when viewed from the perspective of the 21st century, or for that matter even when viewed from the perspective of his own time.  But he is one of the most intriguing fictional characters you're likely ever to come across.  This book was first published in 1966 so the idiocy of PC had not yet reared its ugly head.  And this book pays little heed to the silly PC concerns of our time and is correspondingly refreshing.      If you like your characters strong, raw, unadulterated, and realistic and love a great story line this book will not disappoint.  My only misgiving about the book was that it had to end at 732 small-print pages.  The good news is that the book Noble House, though it takes place 120 years later does continue the saga of the Noble House and provide the follow-up on the characters that you come to know and love in Tai-Pan.	2005-06-06
US	37426920	R8QU3DBBNMRTQ	0316734942	60378634	The Closers	Books	3	28	33	N	N	Ho-hum effort from one of my favorites, Connelly	This is not one of Connelly's best efforts.  Maybe he and Harry Bosch have have exhausted their useful life.  Maybe Connelly was just grinding out a journeyman effort.  Whatever the reason, this book lacked the punch and excitement of many of Connelly's earlier Harry Bosch novels. <br /> <br />As alluded to above Harry Bosch is back, now a member of a \\"Cold Case\\" unit with his old partner, Kiz Rider, who has left administration for the more exciting and rewarding life of criminal investigation. <br /> <br />They are investigating the death of a mixed race 16 year old girl from 1988.  His old nemesis, Irvin Irving again appears in this novel as malevolent as ever.  Harry's a little rusty and it shows, but, as one might expect, the indomitable Bosch once again prevails. <br /> <br />But the story bogs down, at least for me, in several places.  The inner turmoil that makes Bosch such an interesting character was given short thrift in deference to boring police procedures.  This book just never seemed to grab hold of me.  <br /> <br />It really wasn't a bad story, but the formula just seems a little stale to me now.  The novel seemed to lack the heart and soul of earlier Bosch novels.  I'd call this a good, but not great, journeyman effort, however not as good as I've come to expect from Connelly	2005-06-06
US	37426920	R1C8C7MLJHLKOF	0525948740	864602598	The Innocent	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Man, this guy can tell a tale!	Coben manages once again to spin an amazingly engaging yarn about hapless Matt Hunter who, while in college on a typical undergraduate pre-law trajectory, goes to a fraternity party where his best friend gets into a fight.  Hunter, very reluctantly enters the fray late when his friend is getting the bejesus beat out him.  Hunter does not want to fight and in fact regards his reluctance as cowardice.  But intervene he does and with catastrophic results.  He accidentally kills another boy who was also uninvolved in the fight.<br /><br />The story resumes 9 years later with Matt out of prison working as a para-legal in a law firm and married to a woman who can only be described as perfect - perfect in every way for our Matt.  He can barely believe his good luck.<br /><br />But the bliss doesn't last long after Matt receives on his mobile phone a picture of his wife wearing a blond wig in a compromising situation.  BAM!!  Matt and we are off to the races.  And what a wild ride it is!<br /><br />Coben is simply the best contemporary writer that I've come across who grabs your interest and simply will not let go.  The old cliche about not picking up a book unless you have the time to complete it is actually true of Coben.  He is a master at creating suspense and intrigue.<br /><br />Coben's characters are always ordinary and manage to find themselves in extrordinary circumstances that would bedevil anyone.  Coben creates characters and situations that nearly anyone could relate to which is to a large extent why his books work so well.  Ordinary people getting caught up in overwhelming  complicated unfathomable situations.<br /><br />Coben is an amazing story teller and this book will deliver.  I heartily recommend it to all.  My wife loved it as much as I did.	2005-05-21
US	37426920	R3I5FD6G51TXI4	0385199570	825352881	The Stand: The Complete and Uncut Edition	Books	3	14	21	N	N	Average read.  I was disappointed	I'm going to take a contrarian view on this book. It was just OK.  The  stark contrast drawn between good and evil are at once the book's strength and its weakness.  Honestly, I felt that the treatment of evil and its nature was rather sophomoric and ham fisted.    I absolutely loved the idea of the book:  a catastrophic disease that kills over 99% of the country's population.  What would the survivors do?  How would they subsist?  King studies about 6 - 10 different characters in depth and tells their stories.  And engaging stories they are.  He's wordy and tangential  as always, but also as always tells an engaging tale.    But the battle between good and evil was drawn much too starkly.  Few, but the truly debased would choose the evil that is presented in Kings world.  In our world today evil is attractive, evil is charming, evil is engaging, and finally evil is fun!  We are naturally attracted to evil.  Were evil as monstrous and sharply drawn as King's evil it wouldn't stand a chance.  But evil actually is thriving in today's world and it does so precisely because it so damn appealing.      The quasi-religious overtones were also awkwardly, incompletely, and superficially  dealt with.  The characters living in King's post apocalyptic world of starkly defined good and evil ended up a bit caricature  like because of the lack of subtlety in crafting that world.     There are sparks of brilliance in King's writing and story-telling, but over 1000 pages is too high a price to pay for so little.      Sorry  to say it but I would only give this novel a lukewarm recommendation.	2005-05-20
US	37426920	R3TCXUYQFW15DQ	0446612111	861999493	The Zero Game	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not a particularly well conceived story.	This book disappoints nearly from the very beginning.  The key ingredient of the plot is utterly implausible and since it is introduced at the beginning of the book the reader is forced to forge on despite this egregious weakness.  It never stopped nagging at me throughout the book and at the end Meltzer adds insult to injury by disclosing that it was indeed NOT plausible.  But our hero, Harris Sandler was bamboozled nonetheless.  Despite his political savy and cleverness he was fooled by a transparent ruse that even a high schooler would have detected. <br /> <br />Even accepting the preposterous story line, this book was a pedestrian effort at best.  Very predictable.  The only redeeming quality of the book was the glimpse into the inner workings of the Congress.  I enjoyed that, but wading through this mediocrity was too high a price to pay for what I suspect was not a particularly accurate portrayal.  I found myself skimming large sections of the book in order to just get through to the unsatisfactory end.   <br /> <br />Ordinarily I would have simply quit reading but the story was just barely interesting enough to keep me going which is why I gave it three instead of one or two stars. <br /> <br />Now, if you are stuck on a transcontinental flight and you find this book beneath your seat cushion AND you have absolutely nothing else productive to do then and only then should you consider reading this book.  Otherwise, do yourself a favor and find something more worthwhile to expend your efforts on.	2005-02-20
US	37426920	R11U1ZP1FYP9CW	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An aimless desultory shallow amble through the 70's South	I'd given up on Grisham for many years because of past disappointments.  His first book, \\"A Time to Kill\\" was, in my opinion, his very best.  But his talents have eroded with the years and his politics seem to encroach upon his story telling.  Pat Conroy takes a backseat to no one in his leftist leanings but still manages to tell a wonderful well written story.      Grisham, few would argue, has the talent of a Pat Conroy, but one would hope he could at least provide an engaging read.  This story starts out OK - just OK, but then wanders inexplicable into not particularly well told completely unrelated stories.  I would guess that about 2/3 of the book is not directly related the legal \\"thriller.\\"    I will never again pick up a Grisham novel unless it is highly recommended by someone I respect.  My advice, find something more worthwhile, engaging and interesting to read.	2005-02-09
US	37426920	RFNUMMB0TK5SD	0679768122	381866424	Albert Speer: His Battle with Truth	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Mesmerizing account of the Third Reich	In the December issue of American Spectator there is a \\"Books for Christmas\\" list of recommendations that I always use as a guide for my reading in the upcoming year.      James Rosen (Fox News White House correspondent) recommended this book as \\"the best nonfiction book I have ever read on any subject.\\"  And while I don't necessarily agree entirely with this characterization I can heartily recommend this book as one you will not soon forget.  Sereny is an Austrian native who actually saw the 1934 Nuremberg rally which was captured unforgettably by Leni Reifenstahl in her Triumph of Will.      Sereny gained the confidence of Albert Speer over many years and had basically unfettered access to him throughout her research, and it shows.  The insights thus gained allow for an unusual glimpse into the inner workings of the Third Reich and all of its principal players.      Sereny conducted interviews with numerous \\"players\\" in the life of Albert Speer and the Third Reich.  Her meticulous research methods and eye for detail allow for a glimpse into the heart of darkness the likes of which you will likely never again see.    She avoids the pitfalls of many who succumb to the temptation to oversimplify, mis-characterize, or accept the prevailing facile dismissals of those who participated in the \\"Final Solution.\\"  She attempts, at least partially successfully, to gain a broader understanding of just how such evil as occurred in the Third Reich came about.  But she fails, as we all must eventually, in penetrating this odious darkness.      At the end of the day, the light of her analysis falls upon the black hole of evil which absorbs nearly all attempts to understand it.  I enjoyed this book tremendously, but it is difficult slogging.  Of one thing there can be no doubt however, Albert Speer did obviously have knowledge of the evil that surrounded him.  That he could have remained oblivious to all that transpired is simply not credible.  Even the effort not to confront thisevil was, in itself, a tacit acknowledgment of what was transpiring.  He used forced labor in his enormously successful efforts to keep the German war production going despite overwhelming losses to Allied bombing.     My wife, who reads to me on road trips, could not bear to read this book.  It is not for the faint of heart.  But it is well worth the effort.  I heartily recommend this book.	2005-01-26
US	37426920	R3AGMRA3XF9DEB	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	13	28	N	N	A fun informative thriller	In this book Crichton tackles the thorny issue of global warming employing a fictional story line as a teaching tool.  He does so surprisingly by NOT succumbing to the sirens song of the environmental fringe.      He takes a position on global warming which will, no doubt,  earn him the animus of those ideologically enslaved by the Leftist thought police.   You can actually see the phenomenon of media disinformation manifested in many of the reviews cited here which ignore his arguments and vilify him personally.    I was surprised that an author of Crichton's stature would risk the ire of the media darlings who are largely responsible for promoting his books and movies.  This book took a great deal of courage for Crichton to write.    Crichton's book is about more than the global warming phenomenon however.  It is about the danger of politicizing science.  When the government and media both throw their weight behind a particular theory resulting in uncritical analysis all sorts of mischief occurs.    In the appendix, he cites eugenics as an example of bogus pseudoscience that was uncritically accepted by such luminaries as Woodrow Wilson, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and Margaret Sanger.  Institutions such as the National Academy of Sciences and the American Medical Association also threw their weight behind this odious \\"science\\" and eventually it seeped into the national and world consciousness.    Crichton's story line was not his best and his character development was not particularly strong.  But, I enjoyed the book nonetheless.  Crichton's strength has never been strong character development and this novel is no exception.  The story was interesting and his ideas were, as always, intriguing.  Crichton deserves credit for the courage required to tackle this politically correct bogeyman and bring it to its knees.    There ARE some interesting characters.  One of my favorites was an environmental activist actor named Ted Bradley who plays a president on TV.  This guy is so stupefyingly stupid Crichton actually stretches credulity until one considers some of the Hollywood nincompoops upon whom this character is based!  Fortunately, Bradley meets a well deserved end, but true to the bovine like ignorance of those whose brains have been addled by the constant morphine drip of leftist nostrums, he remains blissfully ignorant until the very end.    Interestingly, Crichton in his appendix posits that which \\"he knows to be true.\\"  He then pontificates on solutions moving forward.  I found myself mostly in agreement with his conclusions excepts for his final conclusion which was that science, unfettered by false political restraints, is our salvation.  I myself have chosen to find my salvation elsewhere and I suspect that those who seek salvation, or in this case solutions, through science no matter how benignly construed, will be sadly disappointed.    If you are ideologically committed to the theory of global warming you will not like this book.  If you have an open mind or are skeptical about global warming this book will provide a fun read.  It is not his best book, not his finest story, nor his most cleverly concocted story, BUT Crichton deserves praise for his iconoclasm and the inevitable media savaging he will surely receive.  This book may well achieve a cult like following not unlike that enjoyed by  Bjorn Lomborg's \\"The Skeptical Environmentalist.\\"	2004-12-17
US	37426920	RKSERDOSGI3OG	0446576638	294324369	Night Fall	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A good read - not a great literary achievement!	John Corey former NYPD homicide detective is back and is now assigned to the Federal Anti-Terrorist Task Force five years after the explosion of TWA Flt 800 and before September 11, 2001.  He's thrown into the cauldron of conflicting theories about the cause of Flt 800 and sets out to solve the mystery.    He single handedly confronts a government conspiracy to cover up the real cause of the crash of Flt 800 but does not give short thrift to the government's case.  In fact, both sides of the controversy are fairly presented.       This actually, despite some bogging down, is a pretty good read.  As I mentioned, this is not a literary tour de force, but a worthwhile enjoyable escapist read.     The story comes to its climax on, you guessed it,  September 11th!  I won't say any more so as not to give away the story.  The last sentence of the book opens a huge door to a new book based on Corey's discovery.  I hope he writes it because he really piqued my curiosity.     If you enjoy the wise-cracking Corey he is at his irreverent best in this book.  While this book is NOT among his best it is a worthy effort and an enjoyable read.	2004-12-03
US	37426920	R145PT8YS7GNLT	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	5	35	44	N	N	Another Wolfe Extravaganza!	Wolfe is so good at spinning a yarn that you find yourself utterly mesmerized by his concoction.  Wolfe is at the top of his game in \\"Charlotte Simmons.\\"  He is, \\"A Man in Full!\\"    Earlier reviewers have said that Charlotte Simmons does not typify the usual college coed.  Well, that's the point!  To highlight the absurdities prevalent on campuses today she HAS to be atypical.  In fact, she was ideally conceived by Wolfe for his purposes!      My daughters assure me that the campus described by Wolfe is not at all anomalous and in fact pretty much reflects their own college impressions at Miami of Ohio.  Heck, on parents weekend we can see for ourselves that the outrageous behavior described by Wolfe is right on the mark.    Others have complained about ho-hum stereotypes.  Give me a break!  Most college students ARE stereotypes.  How on earth could you make a meaningful observations about contemporary campus life without drawing upon typical college students and  behavior?  I don't mind nitpicking an author, but please, your criticisms should at least make some sense!    Still others have complained that a 74 year old man could not possibly, by virtue of his age alone, have sufficient access to college activities to comment in any meaningful way.  Nonsense!  Wolfe's powers of observation are considerable and his insights flow from a very young and nimble mind.  I'd take Wolfe's powers of observation at 74 ANY day to the ossified and politically correct analysis provided my much younger authors.  In fact his age and perspective are, if anything, an enormous advantage.  Don't place any stock in these silly criticisms.    Wolfe, as opposed to the leaden, depleted, and soporific efforts by such has-beens as Philip Roth and Norman Mailer, is a joy to read.  In fact, unlike the authors above, he IS actually read and enjoyed thereby earning the contempt of these media darlings whose only displays of ability came early in their careers.     Wolf adroitly describes the clash of cultures taking place on campuses today and does so with well drawn characters.  Sort of a microcosm of the blue states vs the red states.    Wolfe spent what seems like 100 pages describing the St. Rays formal.  This is the only part of the book where the story bogged down a bit, but he was carefully setting the stage for what was inevitably to come.    Wolfe's last book, \\"A Man in Full\\" was a fabulous read, but ended horribly.  Honestly, I don't know what he was thinking.  To have crafted such a wonderful tale and then to have ended it in such a lackluster fashion was a terrible shame.  \\"I Am Charlotte Simmons\\" is at least brought to a credible ending, but I think he could have expended another 100 pages or so wrapping it up in a more satisfactory fashion.  It almost as though he ran out of time, interest or both.  Maybe the formal chapter tapped all of his energies.      Anyway, his characters are wonderfully conceived and he breathes life into them as only Wolfe can.  I am a huge Wolfe fan and this book is a worthy successor to he earlier works.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-11-17
US	37426920	R1983MPF671MD0	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	5	46	90	N	N	Another Coulter tour de force!	If for no other reason than the fact she drives liberals crazy this book is a must read!  If you used, as your solitary guide, what liberals hate to direct you in matters of conscious, taste, morality, politics, or just about anything, you'd be right 99% of the time.  This book, of course, is no exception.      Coulter's polemic takes no prisoners.  She is a brash unapologetic  outspoken pedal to the metal advocate for all things conservative.  Her views, as expressed in this book, are refreshingly un-PC.  So much so that at first you nearly find yourself blushing which is nearly immediately overwhelmed by acceptance followed by a flood of relief and then uncontrollable cheering and laughter.     Coulter is funny!  Unbelievably funny.  Only those on the misanthropic Left could manage to NOT find her funny.  But then of course they are overcome by a misery so profound, a hatred so deeply ingrained, a feeling of envious entitlement so thoroughly rooted that they have NO sense of humor whatsoever.      So, of course, the Left does not find Ann funny.  Quite the opposite.  In a classic example of what the psychiatrists call projection, the Left, barely holding on to any semblance of sanity whatsoever, finds COULTER hateful!      If you call a spade a spade in this country today you are cast as a hatemonger.  If you love America, if you are an intelligent seeker of Truth, if you have an iconoclastic streak, and finally if you have an open mind then you will love this book.    Go out and get it!	2004-10-08
US	37426920	RZKQW4XNO3IYG	0060571411	770996369	God and Ronald Reagan: A Spiritual Life	Books	5	16	17	N	N	I just loved this wonderful book and both subjects!	One of the most exciting days of my life was election day 1980 when Ronald Reagan swept into office.  I've loved Ronald Reagan ever since.  I used to say during his presidency that I loved him more every morning than I did the night before when I went to bed.  OK, I'm a rabid Ronald Reagan fan.    So, my wife gave this book to me for my birthday.  For months I looked at it on my shelf and ignored it believing it to be an over-the-top evangelical perspective that, through its emphasis on Reagan's religiosity, would somehow miss the \\"real\\" Reagan.  Boy, was I wrong!  Before this book, I had no idea what a central role religion, and a formal religious upbringing played in Reagan's life.    This book captured the \\"true\\" Reagan as well any other I've ever read and I've read plenty on this great man.  This book tells a story that is both informative and inspirational.      In fact, understanding Reagan and his conservative philosophy without placing it in the context of his religious upbringing and his religious beliefs is to incompletely understand the man and his philosophy.    This book begins in Dixon with the young Dutch and the ever present saintly Nell, who was the first of two major influences in Reagan's life.  The second of course being his wife Nancy.     Later, we are introduced to the unmistakable influence Whittaker Chambers played in Reagan's life.  We're introduced Reagan's General Electric years and how he formulated his anti-communist pro-freedom philosophy.  We're introduced to his Goldwater speech at the 1964 Republican convention.  All of the major episodes in Regan's life are told intertwining his political and religious beliefs into the coherent whole that WAS Ronald Reagan.     More than anything this book emphasizes how extraordinary a man Ronald Reagan was.  He wasn't just a bright fellow with a gift for telling stories who happened to adopt a winning conservative philosophy, but was an extraordinarily thoughtful intelligent spiritual man who prepared his entire life not for public office, but to become the exceptional man who would grace our country with his leadership.    If you love Ronald Reagan, if you love Truth, if you love God, if you find inspiration from Reagan's metaphorical reference to a shining city on the hill, if you loved his speeches at Normandy, if you were overcome by emotion during Reagan's funeral services, if you are optimistic and find inspiration in God's wonderful world this book will bring you a happiness and contentment you will cherish.    Please, go out and read it.	2004-09-17
US	37426920	R1VSESRF0PQHA4	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Undeniable documentation by men who were there!	As I write this review Kerry has unleashed the dogs of war and further escalated his attack against the Swift Boat Vets.  Clearly, he is only enamored by freedom of speech when it happens to correlate with his version of the truth.  Otherwise, the opposition must be silenced even going so far as to enlist the courts in his unholy efforts. <br /> <br />This book represents a carefully documented account of Kerry's Vietnam experience employing not only the experiences of over 200 of Kerry's military contemporaries including superior officers, fellow officers, and enlisted men, but also, employs his own words to tarnish his current version of his Vietnam experience. <br /> <br />Even if Kerry hadn't made his Vietnam experience the center point of his campaign for president this would remain MUST reading for those interested in the character of the man who might become president.  That such a scalawag could be elevated to the highest office in our land is nearly impossible to imagine particularly after reading this book. <br /> <br />This book exposes Kerry as a venal, narcissistic, manipulative, calculating, prevaricating, foolhardy coward interested only in \\"gaming\\" the system and enhancing his resume.   <br /> <br />If you have any doubts about the accuracy of this book you need only witness the hysterical reaction by the Kerry campaign and their obstinate refusal to release his complete military record.  Just what are they hiding?  Why have they not bothered to address the substantive issues raised in this book?  Why have they enlisted the courts to squelch these men, their book, and their television ads?	2004-08-21
US	37426920	R2F4BPYDRX81EU	0895261006	504268522	Onward Muslim Soldiers: How Jihad Still Threatens America and the West	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Spencer illuminates and educates coolly and calmly	Our educations, ALL of our educations, suffer from a narrow perspective and the pressures of whatever the prevailing political orthodoxy happens to be. This book explodes the cuddly ecumenical world view that is STILL in fashion that all monotheists are but different shades of the same color. <br />  <br />In assessing the nature of Islam William Gladstone put it best: \\"They [Muslims] were, upon the whole, from the black day when they first entered Europe, the one great anti-human specimen of humanity. Wherever they went, a broad line of blood marked the track behind them, and, as far as their dominion reached, civilization disappeared from view. They represented everywhere government by forces opposed to government by law.\\" And this was said BEFORE the slaughter of 100's of thousands by the Turks in the TWENTIETH century. <br /> <br />The myth of the \\"moderate\\" Muslim is a diabolical politically correct canard forged on the anvil of \\"tolerance\\". And to the extent that we've accepted this monstrous invention we've allowed ourselves to become denuded and emasculated. That we still allow ANY Muslim to immigrate to this country is a testimony to our failure to understand the problem and a failure of will to solve this crisis. <br /> <br />Make no mistake, Islam is a gutter religion with the capacity to destroy civilization. William Durant in his \\"The Story of Civilization\\" succinctly stated, [Islam is] \\"probably the bloodiest story in history.\\" He called it a \\"discouraging tale, for its evident moral is that civilization is a precious good, whose delicate complex order and freedom can at any moment be overthrown by barbarians invading from without and multiplying from within.\\" The bitter lesson, Durant concluded, was that \\"eternal vigilance is the price of civilization. A nation must love peace, but keep its powder dry.\\" <br /> <br />Indeed, man's grasp on civilization is tenuous. It takes but one generation to separate men from their past. And men cut adrift from thecertitudes and accumulated wisdom of the generations that have gone before are highly susceptible to the centrifugal forces of chaos. This elaborate edifice that we can the modern world could easily fold in the face of a committed enemy particularly in light of the fact that by nearly all measurements the West has lost its will. <br /> <br />It would be impossible for this or any book to suffer from overstatement insofar as the pernicious designs of Islam are concerned.  Islam, as Spencer accurately points out, is committed to our destruction.  Books like this are necessary to overcome the intellectual ossification engendered by the current PC environment. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-19
US	37426920	R3T0TGZ0H961UD	0895260514	783985120	In Defense of Internment: The Case for Racial Profiling in World War II and the War on Terror	Books	5	42	105	N	N	Ignore the negative reviews	Michelle Malkin has provided a long overdue look at the internment episode which occured during WWII.  If you are not locked into a Leftist PC worldview disabling you from considering issues objectively then you will find this book, at the very least, interesting.   <br /> <br />All the negative reviews were either written by people that didn't read the book and/or are incapable of thinking outside of the PC box.  The PC movement represents the greatest threat to our civil liberties possibly since the inception of the Republic. <br /> <br />Internment, deportation, and criminal profiling (AKA by the Left as \\"racial\\" profiling) are weapons that, should we fail to eventually adopt, could very possibly doom the war on terrorism to failure.   <br /> <br />Open your mind, read this book and at least give it a chance.  Malkin is NOT a racist or xenophobe as so many have suggested.  Her book is thoughtful and honestly, needs to be read.	2004-08-12
US	37426920	R2ACZNQI08I3TF	0743453972	977134384	Memorial Day (Mitch Rapp)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A terrific book which pays NO heed whatsoever to PC	The politically correct movement is strangulating freedom of expression in the USA.  It is an ossifying anti-intellectualism making it impossible to appreciate and identify much less address any of our problems, hamstringing our capacity to even think straight.  Vince Flynn writing style is the antithesis of PC and his resultant story telling is correspondingly refreshing.  <br />  <br />Mitch Rapp, the most un-PC protagonist you are likely to meet in some time, is faced with finding and them preventing the detonation of a nuclear weapon by Islamic terrorists.  Not neo-Nazis, not evil US businessmen, not any of a vast assortment of PC villains, but the real McCoy - Islamic lunatics bent on our destruction.  That these barbarians have free range of our country is another issue altogether. <br /> <br />Our protagonist, Mitch Rapp, is not reluctant to use any and ALL means at his disposal including torture to extract information necessary to save countless lives.  It is a sad commentary on the current political environment that such action would be remotely controversial, but controversial it is and it gets our man in deep doo-doo.   <br /> <br />This is an enjoyable read and I would recommend it highly. <br /> <br />	2004-07-22
US	37426920	RKU2W8XVRIWLR	0515137111	93143308	Birthright	Books	1	15	29	N	N	Sophomoric flapdoodle!	That this idiocy masquerading as a novel could be published is beyond me.  This review won't earn me many positive ratings, but in the hopes of saving just one person from suffering through this tripe I'm going to give it to you straight.  Can you handle the truth?<br />I was at the airport and had forgotten to bring a book and was forced to purchase something to read.  I must have done something terribly wrong to annoy someone in a previous life for me to have chosen this insipid hokum and I must have been terribly bored to finish this garbage, but finish it I did.  My time would have been spent far more productively cleaning out the johns on the airplane.<br />Ms Roberts characters are ridiculously contrived and shallow.  They appear to have been cooked up in the fetid imagination of a high-school sophomore cheerleader who didn't bother to take any English or literature courses.  Ms Roberts has NO insight into the human condition.  Her characters are all androgynous hermaphrodites.  Her men are simply oozing with sensitivity lurking just beneath the surface.  And her female characters are constantly getting into bar fights when they aren't insisting on having sex with the hapless sensitive men in the book.  I guess her total lack of insight into human nature could be forgiven if she'd managed to craft a good tale, but Nooo-o-o-o-o.  I wasn't so lucky.  This storyline was so silly  and inane that I am still kicking myself for bothering to read it.  <br />Do youself a favor.  Pass on this travesty and find something (ANYTHING) else to read.	2004-05-11
US	37426920	R3IOKN1T1NOOEK	0316155306	561654368	The Narrows	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Connelly consistently satisfies	Terry McCaleb, from an earlier novel, has died and his wife, Graciela, enlists Harry Bosch's help in finding out who tampered with Terry's medications.  The poet, also from another earlier novel, is back to haunt Rachel Walling.  And, as Connelly does so well, the seemingly disparate stories are cleverly woven together in this most recent worthy effort.<br />Connelly is not only a good story teller, but a fine writer as well engaging the reader from the very first page and keeping you engaged and intrigued until the very last page.  Those two attributes alone would qualify him as one of the better contemporary writers, but he is also a perceptive student of the human condition brining his penetrating analysis of human nature to bear on his characters.<br />So many contemporary writers today end up disappointing.  Connelly is an exception and that is why I eagerly await all of his books.  This is one of his best and I heartily recommend it.	2004-05-06
US	37426920	R1WRGRM8HBBTZX	0735714118	379038733	The Adobe Photoshop CS Book for Digital Photographers	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An extremely valuable introductory book.	Scott Kelby has written a great book for digital photographers employing a \\"cookbook\\" rather than the more intimidating comprehemsive \\"users manual\\" approach to this intimidating program.  This book will get you using the most useful features of this program quickly and effortlessly.  <br />You need to understand however that this is not intended as, nor is it a comprehensive users manual.  Kelby employs a simpler approach.  By enabling the reader to delve quickly into the most useful features of the program he can then explore the more daunting aspects of the program at his leisure.  I've found that this approach to learning nearly anything works best for me.  To concentrate exclusively on the mundane details of any subject to the exclusion of the more interesting practical aspects nearly always leads to boredom.  Kelby has avoided this pitfall.   <br />I've read other Photoshop books and none of them have been as useful or practical as this one.  Photoshop is chock full of features tailored to the needs of the digital photographer and Scott Kelby has gone far towards making these accessible even to the neophyte.	2004-02-16
US	37426920	R1ADSVPKH66BJ2	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	4	2	6	N	N	An enjoyable read with a disappointing ending	I really enjoyed the first 400 pages of this book.  But darn it if the ending didn't disappoint.  I couldn't figure out how the author was going to end the book and I'm afraid he couldn't quite figure it out either and so he invoked that hoary old bogeyman - the rich businessman who callously manipulates the lives of those around him to accomplish his goal of enriching himself and gaining more power.  It was just a bit too cynical for me and a HUGE stretch.  So many of the inconsistencies that I'd hoped would be resolved were left either unexplained or unsatisfactorily resolved.<br />But I did enjoy the characters and as I said the story for the first 400 pages.  Not a small accomplishment.<br />When our  protagonist, Adam Cassidy, gets caught throwing a party with company funds he gets busted and enlisted by the CEO of his company to spy on the competition.  The scene where he is trying to talk his way out of his crime with the head of security was truly hilarious.  I woke my wife up at 5:00 am to read it to her. <br />The situations he finds himself in spying are quite nerve racking, but he always manages to just get away with it.  He falls in love with an extraordinary woman at the new company he's spying on and improbably continues to betray those he's come to like.  He gets himself in so deep that the reader simply can't imagine how he's going to get himself out.  But that OK, neither did the author.<br />Despite its deficiencies I'd still recommend this book as an enjoyable read.	2004-02-05
US	37426920	R8HXW90GHSIQ0	0785261028	620863197	The Enemy Within: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Schools, Faith, and Military	Books	4	100	142	N	N	Another bare-fisted no-holds-barred view of the Left	Often, at night while driving around, my wife and I will listen to the &quot;Savage Nation&quot; and she'll comment that Michael Savage is just too aggressive and acerbic saying things that might serve to alienate rather than educate.  She prefers Rush.  Myself, I think both are indispensable.  Michael Savage will say those things that need saying, but most are simply cowed into a submissive silence.  <br />This book does &quot;tell it like it is&quot; and is not for the faint of heart.  It surely will NOT change many if any minds.  This book is meat for the true believers and I for one loved it.  Michael Savage is guilty of loving his country and her traditions.  He's guilty of unapologetically defending our values.  And he has a nose for sedition for which he finds plenty of evidence.<br />It's not that Michael Savage has uncovered heretofore unknown conspiracies or really told us anything that we didn't already know.  But he does make a powerful case for widespread traitorous behavior on the Left.  He organizes and presents his case compellingly and entertainingly.  This book is not dissimilar to Ann Coulter's Treason in it major premise:  That the Left has engaged in widespread perfidy and treacherousness on a scale nearly impossible to imagine.  <br />I liked this book and would recommend it highly.	2004-01-27
US	37426920	R3PKBB0ZPXAF62	0374299862	480290555	The Havana Room	Books	4	3	7	N	N	An interesting and enjoyable yarn	This is the first Colin Harrison book for me.  Other reviewers obviously prefered some of his earlier efforts and this book relatively satisfying as it was will give me good cause to give them a try.<br />This book is actually fairly good tale told reasonably well.  I do not agree that it is a worthy literary attempt, but rather a journeyman endeavor - a good one at that.<br />Other have suggested that the story line is improbable.  I didn't consider it so at all.  While somewhat convoluted I found it credible nontheless.  <br />The author's insights into his characters was illuminating and interesting, but he sometimes reached too far in attempting to cast all mankind in his own image.<br />Though not a great book I feel that it was a worthy undertaking that all in all made for an enjoyable read.  <br />Bill Wyeth, the protagonist, was an extremely sympathetic character as was the other major character, Jay Rainey.	2004-01-23
US	37426920	R3EKZOAQOUGMLL	0312315228	643981404	Atkins for Life: The Complete Controlled Carb Program for Permanent Weight Loss and Good Health	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Finally!  A diet that works AND can be lived with!	I am a physician. All my professional life I was steeped in the disinformation regarding low fat diets. And I kept getting fatter and fatter and fatter. <br />Then a friend told me about Atkins. At first I scoffed, but I went out and bought the book anyway. I bought it and read it BEFORE reading the reviews on this site. I wish I had read the reviews first because that alone would have provided the motivation I needed to get going.<br />I went on the induction phase of the diet for two weeks and lost, I kid you not, 16 pounds! I then attempted, more or less successfully to stay on the induction for 8 months over which time I lost a total of 55 pounds. <br />I am still loosing and will stay on the diet until I reach my target weight of 175 - 180 pounds. Another 20 pounds or so.<br />I actually find being on the induction diet easier than trying to modulate my carb intake. I am a carboholic and am just more comfortable avoiding them altogether. It takes 7 - 14 days to rid yourself of your carb craving. BUT, don't cheat. Read the book carefully and adhere to it meticulously. You will loose weight.<br />Now there are those naysayers who whine that they can't stay on the diet or that they feel too deprived. And maybe the diet isn't for everyone. But if you love to eat, hate to count calories, and want an approach that WILL work and more importantly that you CAN do - this is the diet for you.<br />I've resigned myself that I must eat like this for the remainder of my life. Actually not quite as draconian, BUT if I want to stay fit I will have to cut down drastically on carbs.<br />Oh, I almost forgot to mention. I feel great. No more post meal energy crashes. And I feel 20 years younger. I honestly had forgotten how easily I used to move around. <br />I can't wait for the next 20 to come off. And I KNOW that it will. Don't listen to the nattering nabobs of negativity. Go for it. Just do it! <br />Good luck.	2004-01-14
US	37426920	R2AV3S48TU4WLI	1928653111	581549793	The Sword of the Prophet: Islam; History, Theology, Impact on the World	Books	5	44	52	N	N	PLEASE read this book!  Staggering in its implications	I'm 52 years old and consider myself well educated.  But my ignorance of Islam and the implications of \\"Mohammadism\\" were shocking to me.  Our educations, ALL of our educations, suffer from a narrow perspective and the pressures of whatever the prevailing political orthodoxy happens to be.  This book explodes the cuddly ecumenical world view that is STILL in fashion that all monotheists are but different shades of the same color.  <br />In assessing the nature of Islam William Gladstone put it best:  \\"They [Muslims] were, upon the whole, from the black day when they first entered Europe, the one great anti-human specimen of humanity.  Wherever they went, a broad line of blood marked the track behind them, and, as far as their dominion reached, civilization disappeared from view.  They represented everywhere government by forces opposed to government by law.\\"  And this was said BEFORE the slaughter of 100's of thousands by the Turks in the TWENTIETH century.<br />The myth of the \\"moderate\\" Muslim is a diabolical politically correct canard forged on the anvil of \\"tolerance\\".  And to the extend that we've accepted this monstrous invention we've allowed ourselves to become denuded and emasculated.  That we still allow ANY Muslim to immigrate to this country is a testimony to our failure to understand the problem and a failure of will to solve this crisis.<br />Make no mistake, Islam is a gutter religion with the capacity to destroy civilization.  William Durant in his \\"The Story of Civilization\\" succinctly stated, [Islam is] \\"probably the bloodiest story in history.\\"  He called it a \\"discouraging tale, for its evident moral is that civilization is a precious good, whose delicate complex order and freedom can at any moment be overthrown by barbarians invading from without and multiplying from within.\\"  The bitter lesson, Durant concluded, was that \\"eternal vigilance is the price of civilization.  A nation must love peace, but keep its powder dry.\\"<br />Indeed, man's grasp on civilization is tenuous.  It takes but one generation to separate men from their past.  And men cut adrift from the certitudes and accumulated wisdom of the generations that have gone before are highly susceptible to the centrifugal forces of chaos.  This elaborate edifice that we can the modern world could easily fold in the face of a committed enemy particularly in light of the fact that by nearly all measurements the West has lost its will.<br />It would be impossible for this or any book to suffer from overstatement insofar as the pernicious designs of Islam are concerned.	2003-12-20
US	37426920	R25C2W0I21HB9Y	0446530891	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Less than mediocre effort	It's hard for me to believe that so many gave this book a good rating.  What were they thinking?!  <br />This book is so utterly contrived, so far-fetched, and so ridiculous that it would not have qualified for even a secondary school short story.  Good fiction is so hard to come by, but mediocre efforts abound that make for reasonably good reading fare.  No so with Baldacci's latest book.  The story line is gratuitously clever by one half stretching credibility to well beyond the breaking point. <br />Additionally the writing is way, way WAY below par.  Honestly, it was written as though by a child.  I've loved many of Baldacci's former efforts and was looking forward to his latest book, but what an utter disappointment.<br />If you like your stories exciting, believable, well written, with good character development that lures you further into the story this book is not for you.  Even if you are still in grammar school this book is not for you because it does so many things so wrong.<br />Trust me, and don't waste your time and effort on this book.  It truly is a stinker.  It went directly into the trash can after I read it.  There isn't a single person I know that would enjoy this book.<br />I did learn one thing from this book:  That the top reviewers on this site are not to be trusted.  I enjoy reading the reviews on this site before reading a book and am not often steered too wrong.  I was here.	2003-10-31
US	37426920	RHN35NINIIYDD	1581125941	481014617	Crown Molding & Trim: Install It Like a Pro!	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	Valuable information.  Poor print quality.	My apologies to Mr. Drake for my review below.  The book IS a valuable resource, BUT the print quality was atrocious with the pictures particularly difficult to divine.  I understand that at the author's web site a new edition with improved print quality is available.  I returned my copy because the print quality and picture quality was poor.  I would highly recommend buying the book at his web site or at the few Home Depot stores on the west coast that carry the book with much improved (I hope)quality of production.  Visit his web site at [...] for more information.<br />His book does contain fairly complete explanations about installing crown molding, but his chapters on crafts were mere filler and fluff and were not at all helpful.  The unhelpful chapters represented nearly 50% of this VERY short and limited book.  I would have much preferred that he use that space to enlarge on molding installation and other useful trim carpentry projects.  Though helpful, the book is too short for its $20 price tag PLUS shipping.<br />His plastic protractors on his web site are ridiculously expensive.  In my field (Radiologist) the vendors give out the same plastic protractors for free.  Really, he should price them more reasonably thereby increasing sales substantially (ever heard of Henry Ford?).<br />His prices on the web site should INCLUDE shipping at least since they are quite high to begin with.<br />I hope that this book is a work in progress.  It is a good beginning and a valuable starting point for any tyro such as myself.  But it does need to be expanded upon and improved.	2003-10-15
US	37426920	R2R17MCAY8YHEN	006001203X	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	5	39	42	N	N	FINALLY!  A doable diet that works!	I am a physician.  All my professional life I was steeped in the disinformation regarding low fat diets.  And I kept getting fatter and fatter and fatter.  <br />Then a friend told me about Atkins.  At first I scoffed, but I went out and bought the book anyway.  I bought it and read it BEFORE reading the reviews on this site.  I wish I had read the reviews first because that alone would have provided the motivation I needed to get going.<br />I went on the induction phase of the diet for two weeks and lost, I kid you not, 16 pounds!  I then attempted, more or less successfully to stay on the induction for 8 months over which time I lost a total of 55 pounds.  <br />I am still loosing and will stay on the diet until I reach my target weight of 175 - 180 pounds.  Another 20 pounds or so.<br />I actually find being on the induction diet easier than trying to modulate my carb intake.  I am a carboholic and am just more comfortable avoiding them altogether.  It takes 7 - 14 days to rid yourself of your carb craving.  BUT, don't cheat.  Read the book carefully and adhere to it meticulously.  You will loose weight.<br />Now there are those naysayers who whine that they can't stay on the diet or that they feel too deprived.  And maybe the diet isn't for everyone.  But if you love to eat, hate to count calories, and want an approach that WILL work and more importantly that you CAN do - this is the diet for you.<br />I've resigned myself that I must eat like this for the remainder of my life.  Actually not quite as draconian, BUT if I want to stay fit I will have to cut down drastically on carbs.<br />Oh, I almost forgot to mention.  I feel great.  No more post meal energy crashes.  And I feel 20 years younger.  I honestly had forgotten how easily I used to move around.  <br />I can't wait for the next 20 to come off.  And I KNOW that it will.  Don't listen to the nattering nabobs of negativity.  Go for it.  Just do it!   <br />Good luck.	2003-10-15
US	37426920	R21IOH6XAY90B5	1581125941	481014617	Crown Molding & Trim: Install It Like a Pro!	Books	3	19	27	N	Y	14 of the reviews are probably from the same person!	Based on the reviews I ordered this book only to notice that 14 of the first 19 reviews were written on August 6 thru the 9th.  Give me a break!  Looks like someone is trying to skew the results and has done so successfully.  <br />I should soon receive the book and I will then write an authentic review of the book.  I am sorry I didn't notice this stacking of the deck before hand because I relied heavily on the reivews to help me decide which crown and trim book was the best.<br />So, BEWARE!!  These reviews are NOT reliable.  I should have the book in hand this week and will then write a review shortly thereafter.	2003-10-12
US	37426920	R2T9ZY4VGUJFZK	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	2	9	15	N	N	A disappointment.	What is it with authors who disdain the use of straightforward unambiguous language and story lines in deference to obscure pedantic meanderings which are calculated to display their quirky intelligence?  I loved Cryptonomicon and couldn't wait for Stephenson's new tomb, but I have been sorely disappointed.  I love history when it is told in an engaging and enlightening style.  This author however loves to throw out endless historical references without any explanation or context leaving this reader to scratch his head in confusion and to continually reference the Encyclopedia Britannica.  This was difficult heavy going made purposely so by the author.  All of the gratuitously meretricious meanderings might have been somewhat more tolerable had Stephenson managed to create characters who one cares about.  But he failed in this regard as well.  This book is a far cry from Cryptonomicon.  Beware.	2003-10-04
US	37426920	R1EMMTPKDGISTJ	0553271369	409895538	The Lords of Discipline	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Just an outstanding read!  One of my all time favorites.	I love to read. I've always loved to read. And as I've grown older I've discovered that fiction can rarely satisfy my reading needs. It's either sophomoric, predictable, too far-fetched, uninteresting, or simply not worth the effort. Lords of Discipline, however, stands heads and shoulders above the mediocre fare. I cannot possibly recommend this book highly enough.     This is a great book to introduce anyone to the joys of reading.  It is a book that you can recommend with the knowledge that you are imparting an invaluable gift.      It is simply a phenomenal read. A riviting story that cannot help but move you whoever you are. My only complaint (and it is a serious one) about this book specifically (and Pat Conroy in general) is that it has spoiled me. I find myself measuring almost everything I read against the pleasure that this book has brought me. Unfortunately, I have never read another work of fiction that has managed to move me so. So, be forewarned: You read this book at your own risk, for everything you are likely to read afterewards will pale by comparison.	2003-10-02
US	37426920	R22PTI8VR2K0UW	0671024183	111767343	Morgan's Run	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Lengthy, tedious, disconnected, poorly written.	I found this book extremely difficult going.  The story, while somewhat interesting unfolded excruciating slowly and the writing style did not flow smoothly.  Additionally too many extraneous characters with little or no development cropped up incessantly.  Frankly I lost all interest in the characters and the story by the middle of the book and I had to force myself to get there.  A cardinal rule I've employed in reading books is that I abandon them if they fail to please and by 2/3rds of the way through this book I gave up on it.  I only made it that far because of previous efforts which were far better on McCullough's part.	2003-10-01
US	37426920	R2QJ9MQ2I1H6XJ	0312420234	482567189	Hooking Up	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A very good book.	Though not as good as Bonfire of the Vanities.  It makes for an interesting read and is well worth the effort.  It is short and sweet.	2003-07-07
US	37426920	R2J12S19KO9027	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Coulter is spot on !	Let's face it.  If your not of a conservative mind set you probably won't like this book.  I'm a conservative.  And I LOVED this book.  Coulter's style is enormously entertaining AND illuminating.  After your finished with this book go out and get Treason - also a great book.  I just love her bare fisted take no prisoners approach.  No milquetoast she!	2003-07-07
US	37426920	R1SV59BLBKY3MS	0895261715	427240337	The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Eliot	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Outstanding read	This book should form the cornerstone of every Conservative's library.  A breathtaking book enabling the reader to \\"stand on the shoulders\\" of some of the greatest thinkers in the past 225 years.  This book will inspire in most readers that most coveted of all reading experiences, that \\"ah-ha!\\" moment when you gain insights that, had you been left you your own devices, might never have occurred to you.<br /><br />This is the sort of book that inspires you.  I loved every page.  Kirk recounts the modern conservative movement from Edmund Burke to nearly the present.  He explores, in depth, the pedigree of the modern conservative mind.  IMO, there is no finer introduction to conservative thought than this particular book and in general ANY book by Russell Kirk.<br /><br />In addition to being a compendium of conservative thinking this book is an articulation of the author's own take on the conservative mind.  I believe that this book is a must read for any young curious man or woman intent on developing their critical faculties.  The book demands your attention while stimulating it at the same time.  It is almost a perfect teaching tool.<br /><br />I cannot recommend this book highly enough.	2003-07-07
US	37426920	R19SU8FFDPD9CP	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Page turner and eye opener!	I cannot understand these negative reviews.  No one adduces any evidence to contradict Coulter's well researched book.  Her contentions are not flimsily constructed - just the opposite.  She builds an airtight case against the Left for treason - then AND now.  <br />Few have mentioned just how FUNNY this book is.  My wife and I read it to each other while driving during our vacation to Alberta and nearly drove off the road several times.  The sourpusses on the Left have no sense of humor.  It is just a terrific read and, if you have an ounce of honesty in you, WILL be convinced.<br />Coulter manages to articulate those incoherent inchoate instinctive gut feelings you've had about the perfidy of the Left and bring them all into a very sharp focus that will undoubtedly disturb the Left and is clearly responsible for the dyspeptic rancorous responses we've seen from those same \\"fellow travelers\\" who have not even read the book.<br />My advice:  BUY THIS BOOK!!	2003-07-02
US	37426920	RZDJQZGC5PQCM	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Silly puerile premise	Didn't like this book at all.  It accepted as fact preposterous notions that have been for the most part totally discredited.  If you believe in conspiracies this book may be for you.  Whatever you do don't accept all that's written at face value.	2003-06-20
US	37426920	R1DA8BTMKO4DTU	0345443268	327363343	Silent Partner	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Silly, infantile, inane, and poorly written	Frey's America is rife with racists of all stripes controlling the industrial and financial machinery that runs this country.  The book starts out with some fraternity boys killing a ... for good measure.  It then goes on to explain that despicable racists are running the major financial institutions in Richmond.  Their conversations are the sort contrived in the fetid overwrought imagination that only a devout Leftist could possibly believe in.  Conspiracies lurk everywhere.  The dialog is simply awful.  Unless you're a dyed in the wool Democrat who believes that Dubya stole the election and that Algore would have made a terrific president don't bother with this piece of tripe.	2003-02-05
US	37426920	R3OFESATTWV930	0312223374	952774713	The Noblest Triumph: Property and Prosperity Through the Ages	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A Triumph of Reason	This is a phenomenal book that deserves to be read by all who aspire to understand the framework upon which affluence is built.  Bethell's insights are incisive and spot on.  I cannot recommend this book highly enough.	2002-11-15
