US	37586281	R205N3179WZ9NV	1581600046	91339090	Medieval Swordsmanship: Illustrated Methods And Techniques	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Excellent book!	This book is all about the martial art that is (or was) medieval swordsmanship.  This ain't for folks who want to play-fight. <br /> <br />The book covers the history, construction, and usage of the longsword (two-handed or hand-and-a-half sword) as well as the single sword and shield.  The author is interested in clearing up the misconceptions that have been generated over the years concerning European swords and swordsmanship, and does so very well in this book.  His goal, it would seem, is to make sure that people actually understand how these weapons were used in war. <br /> <br />From the standpoint of a martial artist, I find this book to be an insightful look at weapons which have been neglected for, perhaps, centuries.  Clements provides information on what makes for a good sword and how to judge a replica, which is the first step in becoming a swordsman/woman: know your tools.  Then he explains the basic principles and techniques for using the sword and shield, explaining the various guards and the attacks which can be launched from them.  Proper posture and the use of the shield, both defensively and offensively, are important enough for him to mention.  He briefly covers sword & shield techniques vs. the axe and flail before moving on to the longsword. <br /> <br />In the longsword section, the use of the grip is covered as well as the numerous postures favoring this particular weapon.  Parrying is given some fine points as well.  The advantage of having one had free of the sometimes-cumbersome shield becomes apparent upon viewing the techniques; apparently, this method of fighting allows one to take advantage of anatomical weapons that the sword & shield method did not.  At the end of that section, he presents strategies and tactics for the longsword vs. the sword & shield, the spear, and the halberd, as well as a brief section on true two-handed swords, which were often five or six feet in length. <br /> <br />Mr. Clements end his book with advice on how to train, and the pluses and minuses of training in the modern age. <br /> <br />As a martial artist, I found many of the principles in this book to be compatible with other practicle war-arts (no telegraphing your movements, guarding your weak points, etc) and recomend this book to anyone who's interested in what fighting with the European weapons is/was like. <br /> <br />My reverence for the sword, as a weapon, is based on the fact that it was the first one that was not a variant of a pre-existing tool, such as a flail, bow, or spear.  It was the first true warriors weapon, and Clements gives it it's proper respect by viewing it as such.	2005-05-16
US	37586281	R1SN1WKLIYMP1H	0804819130	603131866	Filipino Martial Arts: Cabales Serrada Escrima	Books	4	4	5	N	N	No politics, just a review...	I'll preface this by saying I don't know ANYTHING about the politics behind Mr. Wiley and Mr. Cabales... I'll just stick to reviewing the book, thank you. <br /> <br />This book attempts to be an brief overview on the basic history, concepts, and techniques of Cabales Serrada Escrima.  Without knowing anything about Escrima as a whole, I'd say that it looked good to me. <br /> <br />The first two chapters are on the overall history of escrima and the specific developement of CSE, suggesting that the system may have it's roots in India and noting that Spanish sword-and-dagger techniques had a significant influence on the overall style.  The third chapter very briefly covers superstitions/ spiritual beliefs prevalent in the Phillipines and their relavence to CSE, though I'm sure entire volumes could be written on that subject.  The fourth chapter, \\"Psychological Attributes\\", has a few paragraphs on awareness, motivation, imagery, and emotional control; while dealing specifically with escrima, I'm sure that they'd be useful to any martial artist.  The following chapter covers some pretty intangible concepts, such as \\"innovation is your best teacher\\" and \\"mastery requires dedication\\", and seeks to bring together both the artistic and scientific qualities of escrima.  Like the preceeding chapters, I just don't feel like this one was long enough. <br /> <br />Chapter Six starts into the physical aspects of Escrima, covering the arsenal (both anatomical weapons and the blunt and edged weapons).  Mr. Wiley explains that the system uses a slightly shorter stick than some other escrima systems, and that the anatomical weapons and movements should mirror the armed weapons and their tactics.  Chapter Seven covers the foundation of the system, as far as movements and posturing.  In this chapter, there is the usual mix of stance and salutation presented, but also footwork, fundamental distance concepts, basic ways of striking, and the use of the \\"alive\\" (non-weapon) hand. <br /><br />Starting with Chapter Eight, we are presented with the twelve basic attack angles (mostly with a single-stick, but also with stick-and-dagger), basic defenses against strikes along those angles, unarmed defenses (basic blocks, jointlocks, and \\"bodylocks\\" or takedowns), and disarms vs. the single-stick. <br /> <br />My complaints?  Not many.  It's clearly a book simply on basics (one block for one angle, one disarm per angle, no empty-hand strikes illustrated), and I was disappointed there wasn't more to it.  And far be it from me to criticise something I'm not particularly learned at, but we're not actually getting twelve \\"angles\\" here, as some of the attacks presented follow the same \\"flight paths\\" of others, or are simply stick-dagger combination strikes.  The fact that the possition of the wrist in some of the strikes looks weak lends some credence to the suggestion that the author isn't an athority in the CSE system, but again, what do I know?  And as I said, I don't think there was enough substance to the cultural, philosophical, and mental chapters to really do any system justice <br /> <br />Overall, though, I'd say the book serves as a good intro to escrima and basic stickfighting.  The pictures are clear and the writting, while not very detailed or in-depth, is understandible and easy to get through.  I'm glad I spent money on it.	2005-05-15
US	37586281	R2S82FT6OGAREG	1884654215	274855621	Boxing Mastery: Advanced Technique, Tactics, and Strategies from the Sweet Science	Books	5	26	29	N	N	#1 boxing instructional book!	Once again, Mark Hatmaker has taken a subject and not only excellently explained the \\"how\\", but also the \\"why\\" as well.  \\"Boxing Mastery\\" is exactly that: both a \\"how to\\" and \\"why for\\" book. <br /> <br />Mr. Hatmaker covers everything from the hinge principle (for generating power into every punch) to different boxer's stances and when they're most effective to upper- and lower-body mobility drills and how to cut off the ring.  Make no mistake, this is a book for fighters, not a guide to \\"better fitness through non-contact boxing\\". <br /> <br />As expected, Hatmaker covers the most basic punches, footwork, drills, and targets, and he does so in a logical, concise and easy-to-understand manner the likes of which I've never seen outside of his works.  In addition, he doesn't JUST stick to the basics.  Chapters like \\"KO's and power punching\\", \\"Pivoting and waltzing\\", \\"Ring generalship\\", \\"Beat punching\\", and \\"Defensive concepts\\" shed light on nearly every imaginable aspect of the in-ring side of boxing.  The only *minor* complaint I have is that this book refers to a chapter out of another book of his, \\"NHB: Savage Strikes\\", when talking about the basics of punching.  I own that book too, so it's no big loss to me, but it may take away from the experience a little for a begginer.  Still, it's such a small complaint that it never took away from the reading and learning experience for me. <br /> <br />For anyone who felt like something was missing from Beaumont's \\"Championship Streetfighting\\", this book fills in the gaps (footwork, defense) and then some.  It can also stand alone, and I'd recomend it to anyone who wants to improve their boxing game, be they novice or experienced, as well as just anyone who wants to know how to throw a punch.  I can't say enough good things about this book!	2005-05-15
US	37586281	R2830I8SNMKVMA	1840240296	116020800	The Throws and Takedowns of Greco-roman Wrestling (Take Downs & Throws)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Decent book on a hard-to-find subject	This is only the second book I've been able to find on Greco-Roman wrestling, and while it's pretty good, it's nowhere near the level of William Martell's text.  British karateka-turned-bouncer-turned-pioneer Geoff Thompson presents basic Greco-Roman stance, grips, and throws.  The basics are covered in a single chapter, then each throw he presents (ten, with some minor variations) is given a chapter all it's own, with between two and ten pages (including photos).  I find it disappointing that he doesn't cover any of the underlying principles for these throws, as each throw DOES follow certain principles that are almost unique to Greco.  With all that said, the black & white photos are quite clear, which is a plus; the text itself is well-written; and Mr. Thompson always keeps the techniques in context of what he's trying to demonstrate: workable moves for street defense.  Overall, I've gotta confess that I find the book unextrordinary, but it's decent enough for those with no access to Greco-Roman wrestling throws, which are among the most devistating in the martial arts.	2005-04-17
US	37586281	R3CBNEAY13JMIO	0974097314	971233236	Bas Rutten's "Big Book Of Combat," Volume 2	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another excellent book!	In this book, Bas Rutten focuses on the groundfighting and submission game of NHB.  His chapters are extensive, using decent black-and-white photos to demonstrate his holds.  The chapters focus on one body part or subject at a time (for example, \\"Escapes\\" or \\"Arm and Wrist Locks\\"), and most run about 100 pages long.  The sense I get is that Bas really cares about making sure the reader understands how to perform the moves correctly.  On the plus side, he shows quite a variety of different ways to enter in to these subs, and also shows how strikes could compliment the subs.  On the down side, there is little in the way of new or different holds being shown, and the quality of the photos and print are below what I'm used to.  Of course, that doesn't really take away from what's a very good book overall. <br /> <br />The chapter on escapes was especially good, since every escape led to a better possition and sometimes a hold.  There was a nice chapter on stand-up to ground combos that I think is worth looking through.  I thought the chapter on banana bag combos should have been in the first book, though.  Also included inside the chapters were blank lines that could be filled with training notes. <br /> <br />Overall, a very good book, and a good compliment to Bas's first BBOC.  The fact that the holds were given generic names could prove confusing for training purposes, but if done propperly, they are very good holds indeed, and the book provides more than enough for either beginners or advanced.	2005-03-27
US	37586281	RFTSDV9T0RLJJ	0865680205	360915172	Shaolin Long Fist Kung Fu = [Shao Lin ChìAng Chì”Uan] (Unique Literary Books of the World)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Captures the spirit of Kung Fu	Dr. Yang, to me, has always been a great source of information on the Chinese arts, and his expertise is displayed here.  The book starts out with a pretty thorough history on the Chinese arts (considering the book was only supposed to highlight one style), as well as explaining different traditions found in kung-fu's philosophy and training.  The big point Dr. Yang tries to get across is that morality comes first, then technique.  Starting with Chapter Two, he begins to cover the physical aspect of Wu Su (meaning \\"martial arts\\", as \\"kung fu\\" translates directly as \\"work-time\\"), starting with warmups and stretches that are benificial for any athelete; I do at least some of these before every workout myself.  He then explains the various stances (mostly kept low, for power) and different movements that can be done from them.  While I'm sure that all of these stances and methods of movement are authentically Long Fist, I must question the effectiveness of some of them when facing a criminal in the street or a competitor in a cage.  Many of the defensive movements require one to jump, which may not be a realistic option, depending on the environment.  Still, the book's title is \\"Shaoling Long Fist\\", not \\"Street Defense and Cagefighting\\"; I'll go on the premise that the techniques don't HAVE to be effective, just authentic.  Dr. Yang does mention in this section that Wu Su's emphasis is on defense, with the idea that once one learns to defend oneself, attacking should be that much easier.  He then moves on to the different hand formations, usually just several variations of fists, claws, and \\"beaks\\", and then covers the basic theories and techniques of defensive hand movements.  Then it's on to striking.  The striking techniques presented here are shown primarily against a heavy bag, and are given a fair bit of detail.  The variety presented leads me to believe that there's at least one technique for a given situation.  After that is a seemingly misplaced chapter on building power, speed, and stability, with the emphasis on strengthening the arms/wrist and creating a stable base in the legs; no weights are used.  Next is a brief section on different pressure points to target.  On the plus side, the points are given with their Chinese name, their English location, the accupuncture meridian involved, and which attacks are most useful against it; on the negative side, the \\"effect\\" of these points tends to rely more on accupuncture theory than proven cases (example: the bottom of the foot is listed as a \\"death\\" point).  Next is a brief introduction to forms (one of the better ones I've read) before Dr. Yang actually begins to demostrate five preset sequences and their applications.  While he DOES state which direction one is supposed to be facing in each of his photos, the photos themselves have no real reference point, which takes away somewhat.  However, I *am* grateful that he at least has decided to include the form's applications.  The book ends with a section on \\"fighting forms\\", two-man drills used to train specific techniques (a plus) and strategies for free fighting, emphasising the Chinese mentality approach to combat.  In conclusion, this book is very good for those who's emphasis is on form and \\"martial spirit\\", especially in the Chinese arts, and while it's not so great for MMA or self-defense, some of the principles and most of the training sequences can certainly help.  For the subject matter, and in-depth introduction into a traditional Chinese art, it's a very good book.	2005-03-12
US	37586281	R3DASWLF43019V	0804834466	747171091	Practical Self-Defense (Tuttle Martial Arts)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Has some interesting points; good for karateka	While this book certainly wouldn't be my first recomendation for a self-defense book, it DOES have some useful points in it.  Firstly, it teaches things which are neglected by many self-defense books, such as breath control and physiological signs and reactions to combat.  Learning these things can benifit any martial arts practitioner, in my oppinion.  Second, for the more defense-oriented folks, there's a chapter devoted to \\"unique situations\\", which include being ambushed while seated, while in bed, or while in the car.  (I've already tested the defense for being choked from behind in the car, and give it a thumbs-up!)  As well, the sections at the beginning, on \\"dojo vs. real life\\" and \\"self defense and survival\\" are good, and worth paying attention to. <br /> <br />However, there are some parts of the book that are less than stellar.  It was written by a Kyokushin Karate exponent, and it shows.  He does include a short list of physical excercises (a plus, as many self-defense books neglect fitness training), but it's a bit short, covering only pushups, situps, and some stretches.  The strikes are taken directly from karate, and while, generally, that can be a possitive thing, there's no real emphasis on the conditioning that certain weapons (spear hand, for example) need to be used without risk of injury to the person doing them.  My biggest problem is that the grappling and \\"groundfighting\\" defenses come right out of the 80's, with the opponents DOING the grabbing being very static (defending the grab and not the man can be a bad thing), and the \\"groundfighting\\" being solely against a standing opponent.  It does not take into account that when someone grabs you, they'll either use that leverage for a strike, or try to force you to change possition (against a wall, tackling, etc.), OR the possibility that \\"groundfighting\\" also consists of the opponent going down with you in a tackle, requiring you to defend or escape the possition you're now in.  And on a smaller note, blocks aren't really covered, either. <br /> <br />As a self-defense book, it's incomplete.  A way to MAKE it complete would be to suplement the grab defenses and groundfighting with some traditional or Brazilian jujitsu, and maybe to get a more in-depth book on karate to fully the striking techniques and philosophy that are used.  It may be a good book for someone with a background in karate, and the \\"unusual situations\\" defense is something worth looking at for everyone, and kept me from leaving the rating at two stars.	2005-03-08
US	37586281	R15QG0RQAQ48BW	0974097306	93963864	Bas Rutten's "Big Book of Combat," Volume 1	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very good book on MMA striking	While I didn't think that this book was the best I'd ever read, it was certainly very good.  Long on pictures and short on text, it is nonetheless very complete for those looking to learn MMA striking.  The basic boxing punches are taught, as well as palm-heel blows and spinning backfist.  As well, some (though not all) elbow strikes are covered, as well as Muay Thai style kicks and knee/clinch techniques.  Also included are a few karate-style sidekicks and spin kicks, though Bas says he's not fond of using either for MMA.  He also cover defense against the different strikes (well, punches, kicks, and knees), and includes counter-strikes and combinations.  Also included are various drills for speed and reflex, and mit and Thai pad work.  He also covers striking on the ground, in just about every possition imaginable (including IN the mount!), and that alone, to me, makes the book valuable, and certainly different from other books out there.  Following the chapters on striking is one on takedowns and takedown defense, with only non-gi throws and takedowns shown.  Most of the takedowns are lower-body shots, but also included are throws vs. kicks and takedowns involving a wall or cage.  Also included in this volume are several conditioning excercises, which run the gammut from weight training to tumbling to water training.  My complaints about this book are minimal: I don't think there's enough detail on the striking techniques, and many of the combinations are redundant and/or unimaginitive.  As well, I can't touch any of the pages without getting my fingers covered in black ink powder.  Still and all, it is a very good (and thorough) book, and the chapters on striking on the ground, as written by one who knows, may well be worth the price of the book, and are certainly worth a look by everyone.	2005-01-10
US	37586281	R285I332KWL75	0967991617	746734046	Further Insights into Kenpo	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Insightful articles for students and instructors	This book is a collection of articles the author has written over the years concerning Kenpo, and related disciplines.  Some, such as the one on using the elbow, or the one on checking, I found very useful.  Others, while not directly applicable to combat, were nonetheless entertaining, such as the short bio on Ed Parker.  And then there were those that I skimmed through altogether, such as \\"How to Launch a Tai-Chi Program\\".  However, I will say that I believe there is something in here for almost everyone.  The author himself trained under Ed Parker, and is full of insights into the Parker system.  He has included footnotes in his text to clarify a point, or to input additional information.  I believe, due to it's focus, this book is best suited for those who practice kenpo of the Parker lineage, but it's fun to read and as I stated before, almost anyone can glean SOMETHING out of it.  The major drawback is that, due to the nature of the book (reprinted magazine articles), select things are covered in-depth while many other aspects of kenpo as an art are completely omited.  As well, I believe that many of the original photos are probably missing.  Overall, a decent book, one which I would recomend specifically for kenpo students.	2005-01-09
US	37586281	RFW43QPVPC58D	1931229295	674759016	Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Submission Grappling Techniques (Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu series)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Comprehensive book by Gracie	I found this book to be a very good one on using Brazilian Jujitsu techniques in a no-gi environment.  Compared to other BJJ works, this one is very well organized.  As always, the photo quality is quite good.  The author starts off by discussing the difference between gi and no-gi training, including tips on defending and passing the guard in no-gi grappling.  He then talks about a training routine, including how to be a two-sided grappler and the importance of eliminating one's weaknesses.  He goes on to discuss what he thinks it takes to be a champion, including knowing yourself and your opponent and having a good strategy.  Then it's on to the actual techniques.  Royler covers grips first, assuming that the reader will not be familiar with no-gi grappling.  In this section, he covers many different grips that are possable, from locks around the body, to controlling the hands, to ways to hold the legs.  The next section contains five drills, two solo and three with a partner, covering things like standing up to a base and setting up for takedowns.  Next is 23 standing techniques, many of which are takedowns, and includes some takedown defense.  Following that are 75 ground techniques, and include everything from the basic 'upa' escape to combinations of holds.  Generally, the techniques seem grouped better in this work; for example, the mount escapes are all shown together, instead of haphazardly strewn throughout the text.  The book itself seems oriented towards those who already are familiar with the basics of grappling, but who are trying to transfer from gi to no-gi sports.  It could also help suplement a self-defense program, due to it's extensive ground escapes and holds.  A pretty good book, but it doesn't explain the principles behind grappling holds, which I feel would have made it much better.	2004-07-30
US	37586281	R1XQ41WVTA2H1C	1884654207	554781109	No Holds Barred Fighting: Savage Strikes: The Complete Guide to Real World Striking for NHB Competition and Street Defense (No Holds Barred Fighting series)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Striking for NHB	Once again, Mark Hatmaker has put together a book that focuses on the most essential techniques for No Holds Barred fighting, providing the reader with expert advice. His 21-page preface may be the most concise, useful, and insightful one ever written on the striking arts. Alone, it covers which side to put forward in a fighting stance, how to get maximum power into the punches, some tips on timing and how to take a punch, and how the 80/20 rule applies to the fight game... and his explains all of it clearly and thoroughly. Amazing. His first actual chapter lays the groundwork, on a physical level, for a good NHB striker. He explains how to roll a propper fist and which knuckles you REALLY want to hit with; assuming the propper stance, including some common errors to avoid; upper body mobility, including the pull, the duck, the slip, and why the bob and weave is a poor choice for NHB fights; and foot work, such as the pivot, slide-shuffle, shift, and mistakes to avoid. The second chapter is on the basic boxing arsenal, covering hooks, uppercuts, straight punches, and the overhand. Following that is a chapter on inserts, which are little hammering and forearm blows that can be done off a missed punch. His section on elbow shots is much the same. By the end of the fifth chapter, we've seen elbows both on thier own and as inserts, as well as a sample combination using forearms, elbows, and punches in concert. The next two chapters diverge a bit, showing low blows and then &quot;self-defense strikes&quot;, which consist of shots to the eyes and throat. Next is a chapter on headbutts, including the propper striking surface and how to sneek one in from the clinch. Then he goes over &quot;clinch inserts&quot;, including basic stomps, some more forearm shots, shoulder shots, and how to cut of a guy's air while in the clinch. Following that is how to break a clinch, a neccesary tactic for those who feel more comfortable striking. His chapter on leg work is all strikes to theshins and thighs, which include the rear &quot;purring kick&quot;. The next two chapters are on free and clinching knees, respectively, which can be very damaging blows. Chapter fourteen starts his section on defense, beggining with basic boxing defensive blocks. Next is a chapter on elbow defense, which includes several drills. A short headbutt defense chapter follows, after which is a very good chapter on knee defense (including foiling clinched knees), leading into a chapter on kicking defense, which blends well with the punching 'd' chapter. After that is a chapter on 'pick offs', also called weapons distructions, which is essentially how to make someone pay for throwing a punch or kick at you. The chapter on &quot;Ground and Pound&quot; is very good, showing strikes from the mount, side control, and guard (do you know how to use heel kicks? THere's a better target than the kidneys!). The chapter on combinations shows how to combine all the various tools, from kicks to punches to clinching, and show 24 different combos, ranging from two to seven moves. Mr. Hatmaker concludes the book with a chapter on drilling with pads, mitts, the heavy bag, and shaddow boxing. At the end of the book is a list of various books, videos, and websites with which to augment one's training. Overall, a very detailed book, showing great, high-percentage techniques. I'd recomend it to anyone who wants to learn how to strike, whether it's for sport or self-defense.	2004-07-30
US	37586281	R4KBY1MVLIZ6F	0865681201	717567554	Jeet Kune Do Kickboxing	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Decent start-up for stand-up fighting	This book wasn't designed for the sport of kickboxing; rather, it was designed to show the kicking and boxing aspects of Jeet Kune Do. This book shows basic punches and kicks with the forward and rear hand and foot, and their applications. There is also some discussion and applications shown of using footwork, along with these tools, to move in and out of range, or to bring different weapons to bear against an opponent. As well, some combinations, using both hands only, feet only, and hands and feet together are shown, as are the basic attacks, against equipment like focus mitts and kicking shields. Also discussed, briefly, is the progressive indirect attack. Defensive possibilities are then shown, including counterattacks, including slips, bridging, ducking, stop-hits, and more. The use of focus mitts in training for defense is covered in the same chapter. There's also a bit on attack by drawing, whereby one \\"baits\\" the opponent.  The book then moves on to jab-catch drills, building off of the basic defensive movement into counter-offense.  The book finishes with some parrying drills, some basic kicking drills, and a word or two about strategy vs. different opponents.  The elements in this book focus on Jun Fan JKD, and in that sense it's very compatible with the \\"Bruce Lee's Fighting Method\\" series and \\"Jun Fan/ Jeet Kune Do: The Textbook\\".  In fact, \\"Kickboxing\\" and \\"Textbook\\" are almost two halves of a whole: the former for the basic applications, the latter for more advanced tactics and strategies.  Those interested in Jun Fan would not be disappointed with this book.	2004-07-29
US	37586281	R15PNO36CMGTSS	0713634030	295563634	Jiu Jitsu : The Official World Jiu Jitsu Federation Training Manual (White to Green Belt)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good material, sub-par formating	This book is a valuable asset for those wishing to learn the basic techniques of Japanese-style Jiu Jitsu, or how to defend themselves.  The text includes a number of throwing and locking techniques which can be used both with the gi (jacket) and without.  There are also several self-defense combinations presented, including defense against strangles from the feet and on the ground, escapes from full- and half-nelsons, and ground defense against a standing opponent.  Standard lapel grab and bearhug defenses are also shown.  The photos are black and white, with good quality, which helps when looking at the technique.  The techniques are shown in the order of belt syllabus, covering white, yellow, and green belts.  There is also a brief introductory section which includes warmups, breakfalls, ettiquete, bowing, and certain World Jiu Jitsu Federation regulations.  On the down side, some individual techniques aren't covered before they're shown in combination (for example the first technique shown involves a combination punch, throw, and jointlock), and there seems to be no apparent order to the techniques, other than all choke defenses, etc. are shown together.  Basic striking isn't even discussed until the Green Belt Syllabus, and never demonstrated as individual technique.  Also, the principles behind the throws are never discussed, which takes away some from the overall value.  In conclusion, a very good book, but it could have been much better organized and explained.	2004-07-28
US	37586281	R3SR7V2224VFM0	0865680515	739550899	Jeet Kune Do: Entering to Trapping to Grappling	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Plethora of trapping/grappling techniques	This book does a pretty good job of presenting techniques from a clinch, or another situation where one is close enought to use Wing Chun-style trapping techniques.  It also covers moving into a clinch possition, as well as several takedowns and throws from said possitions.  It covers using these techniques both offensively and defensively.  Also covered is basic fighting stance and footwork, some standing submissions, and some leglocks for securing a person on the ground.  The book was made in 1984, so it may  not be 'state of the art' where some clinching and grappling techniques are concerned, compared to what has developed in modern MMA competitions.  It's a decent enough book, and for someone with no knowledge of clinching, trapping, or basic upright grappling, I think it could be helpful, and is reasonably useful for MMA competition and self-defense training, but mostly as a suplementary text.	2004-07-22
US	37586281	R2VU5II05ULDTU	0971413320	586187467	Unarmed Combat: A Complete Manual of Self-Defense, Groundfighting & Joint Locks	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Paid too much for it.	Having enjoyed Mr. Iverson's &quot;Submission Fighting Techniques&quot;, I was rather disappointed by this book. My primary objection is that it's marketed as being an instruction manual for military-style combat. However, there's no striking techniques covered, and much of the work is on groundfighting, which, while important, shouldn't be the primary focus in a situation where multiple opponents could be involved, such as a battlefield or peacekeeping mission. On the up side, when it comes to groundfighting, Mr. Iverson is at his best, and this book includes gi/jacketed techniques that couldn't be included in his first work. Also of value are many of the takedowns and some prisoner/body search techniques. However, the club, knife, and gun disarms are unimaginative, and in some cases, risky-looking. I also had a problem with some of the 'stand-up submissions' where Mr. Iverson is shown actually falling to the ground. This seems like a decent tactic on the mat, but certainly not on the street, where asphalt and concrete provide little padding against a fall. Finally, I'd like to say that when he's good, the author is *very* good, but when he's bad, he's awful, and most of this book falls into one of those two categories. I think it would be particularly useful to competitors in grappling or MMA environments, and probably to law enforcement personell to a degree, but it's overly complex and too single-minded for me to recomend it as a primary text for military personell or people interested in street defense.	2004-07-22
US	37586281	RLLWPEBJEB9Y0	0965744205	805269329	Mu Tau Pankration: Concepts and Skills of "All-Powers" Combat, Vol. 1	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good book on MT Pankration basics.	This may have been one of the first &quot;modern&quot; systems to address the realities of all-in, no-holds-barred fighting.  Mr. Arvanitis's work appears to be influenced by ancient and modern wrestling and boxing, as well as modern MMA events and the works relating to Jeet Kune Do.  The standing techniques will be familiar to those who study the latter, as will the &quot;Attributes&quot; section in the appendix.  I don't believe that this similarity takes away from the art of Mu Tau Pankration; in fact, I think shows how this modern version of the ancient art continues to evolve.  This book covers the history of Pankration going back to ancient Greece, and includes sections on ancient boxing and wrestling.  Upright combat skills are covered separatly from upright grappling, and include stance, foot work, striking, some clinch work, and defensive skills.  There is also a separate chapter concerning the training equipment for striking.  The upright grappling section covers some very basic takedowns, sweeps and throws, closing the gap, and the sprawl, a takedown defense.  A chapter on groundfighting includes a bit on ground control and reversals, with several submissions featured, including basic chokes, several arm-bar variations, hammerlocks as submissions (unique from the kimura/double wrist lock), and some very unique leg holds.  Striking from the ground is also covered.  There is then a chapter on set-ups, reversals, and combinations which give the reader some idea of how these different skills come togeather in a combat situation.  The chapter on conditioning is pretty well-rounded, and has parts on stretching, cardio, and weight training.  Also covered are breakfalls, drills, and rules for sparring, including weight classes.  At the end of the book is a glossary of Greek terms, the ranking structure of MT Pankration, and mental and physical attributes of a fighter.  Overall, this was a very good book.  On the negative side, the groundwork isn't as refined as it could be, some of the featured techniques aren't allowed in their sparring, the throws and takedowns aren't covered in any detail, and the stand-up techniques can be found in most Jeet Kune Do or Muay Thai books.  On the plus side, the part on combinations, setups, and reversals was an eye-opener, there was a great section on neck excersises, there were some terrific drills, and some of the submissions were quite unique.  I think this book would make a great suplement to any MMA library, and would be very good for those without exposure to MMA classes.  I just wish someone would come out with a book on the more ancient techniques, which evidently included palm and thumb blows, and some grappling not covered here.	2004-04-10
US	37586281	RXVSCJJW3GK1Y	0865680116	689752268	Kung Fu: History, Philosophy, and Technique	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Very good info on Kung Fu	This book was originally published in 1977 as a way to introduce Westerners to the complex history and traditions of Kung Fu.  This book covers the history of the Chinese martial arts quite well, given the space they had to work with.  The history goes all the way back to the bronze age, and is followed throught the centuries.  Bodhidharma, the legendary figure who brought the movements of Kung Fu and the philosophy of Chan (Zen) to the Shaolin temple is given an entire chapter.  The Taoist influence over the Chinese arts is mentioned, specifically when talking about the internal styles of T'ai Chi, Pa Kua, and H'sing Yi.  The emphasis is on T'ai Chi.  Several external styles of Kung Fu are featured as well: Northern Shaolin, Dragon, Wing Chun, White Crane, Praying Mantis, Monkey, Hung Gar, and Choy Lee Fut.  Each style is given a one or two page description that includes history, techniques, fight strategy, and overall philosophy.  There is also a chapter on Chin Na, but those familiar with other Chin Na works will find that the techniques covered here, while effective for self-defense, don't even come close to showing the complexities of the &quot;seizing and controlling&quot; art.  There is also a chapter on how to perform amazing feats, with much of the text taken from an ancient Chinese book.  I believe that this chapter has some value, though I can't verify the various Kungs that emphasise Chi power.  The last bits of the book are on Kung Fu films, the Westernization of Kung Fu, and some neat little proverbs.  Overall, this book is very good for introducing people to the Chinese martial arts, whith a very broad range of subjects covered.  There are some weaknesses, though, notably that the text seems a little dated, and the photos are in awful condition.  Still, the self-defense moves are fairly practical, and the insight into the history of Kung Fu and the different styles makes this book worth buying.	2004-04-07
US	37586281	R2HO4B071IQPR	1873475667	225177165	Three Second Fighter: Sniper Option	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Smartest buy I ever made	I have nearly all of Geoff Thompson's technical books, and I believe this is the best one.  In this book, Mr. Thompson covers the difference between a match fight, a gratuitous assault, and a pre-planned mugger's approach of disarming; the effects of muscle memory and action triggers; the different kinds of adreneline and how they effect a fighter; why you should have a 'main artillery' weapon and how to use it; and training for incorperating these newfound principles.  Off hand, I'd say the most valuable part of this book is how to deal with the law when it comes to post-fight conditions.  Once again, Mr. Thompson, a karate black-belt turned bouncer, covers his 'fence' system and how to use it.  Overall, this book gives the reader a terrific game plan for self-defense by giving him or her true knowledge of how fights go down and what to expect.	2004-03-18
US	37586281	RCMD1NASNOAPB	0961512660	257275555	Gene Lebells Handbook of Judo: A Step by Step Guide to Winning in Sport Judo (Heritage Series (Los Angeles, Calif.).)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very unique judo book	This book has it all, from basic to combination throws, pins and controlling techniques, gi and no-gi techniques...  Gene LeBell has long been acknowledged as one of the best grapplers ever to come out of the US, and one look at this book will show you why.  In addition to covering throws and pins in detail, LeBell also shows counters to these techniques, as well as variations of standard techniques.  The chapters on illegal holds and grapevining also shows how well he was able to blend judo with catch-wrestling techniques.  While I would say that the book could be usefull to students of traditional judo, I belive that those who would bennifit the most are students of grappling arts which are more inclusive with their holds, such as BJJ and Sambo.  I also think that anyone transitioning from freestyle wrestling to judo would find this book usefull.  The only downside I can think of is that the photos are not of the best quality.  Anyone serious about martial arts in general, and grappling in particular, should own this book.	2004-03-18
US	37586281	RU7S3NWUD3QVG	0804818789	907130189	Judo: A Pictorial Manual	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A lost treasure	This is one of the most unique Judo books I've ever read.  It includes a pretty decent history of judo, incuding a section focusing specifically on women's judo, and demonstrates everything from fastening the belt to katas vs. swords!  I have to say that while 40 throws were demonstrated, there wasn't much detail.  On the other hand, the direction of happo-kuzushi (off-ballancing) was given for every throw.  Also shown were warm-ups, combination throws, body movements (called tai-sabaki), a variety of hold-downs, locks and chokes (including a leg lock!), and self-defense against common grabs, strikes, and knife/sword attacks.  Also included are counters to some of the common judo groundfighting techniques, as kata.  I'd recomend this to anyone doing gi-based grappling, but there is also some good tradition stuff in here, as well as some unique self-defense movements, probably most useful to a judoka who wants to know how to apply what he's learned.	2004-02-15
US	37586281	R2SQQEDXXQFO2D	1581600186	848100604	First Strike : Mastering the Preemptive Strike for Street Combat	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent book!!!	Strike first, strike fast, strike hard!  Good advice for almost any situation.  This book has an incredable amount of information on pre-fight posturing.  His &quot;de-escalation/first strike stance&quot; is something that should be incorperated into every practical personal defense program, from police/security to the average Joe.  The drills in this are golden.  Much of the training involves proper mental attitude, which is essential when in a high-stress situation.  My only real complaints are that there are too many techniques (doesn't look like he follows the KISS principle) and that Mr. Franco's &quot;reference material&quot; is pretty much just his other books.  Also, I think some of his principals are better suited for advanced students, even though the book is supposed to be for begginers.  Those who are familiar with JKD may find a lot of similarities in this book.  Overall, a great book, especially for self-defense instructors, but sometimes just has too much information.	2004-02-15
US	37586281	R2N9H7BY1M3IWX	1581603177	467089804	The Dirty Dozen: 12 Nasty Fighting Techniques For Any Self-Defense Situation	Books	3	88	93	N	N	Cut-and-dry self-protection book	The techniques presented in this book are simple and deadly.  They are meant to be used when one is facing a life and death situation.  Many involve holding on to your opponent's head while delivering a potentially fatal blow.  Some of these techniques are suited only for attacking the eyes or throat.  If I were going on to the battlefield, this book would be all I'd need; however, in the civilian world, there are things that this book does not address, such as awareness and avoidance, and legal considerations.  However, it does address different crimes that the reader may come up against, and having the proper mental attitude to deliver these fatal techniques.  I'd recomend getting this book as a suplement to a more awareness-based self defense program; these are great techniques, but knowing when to use them is critical.	2004-02-15
US	37586281	R3P7Z5UDP8GB8K	1581603207	643523478	Muay Thai Kickboxing: The Ultimate Guide To Conditioning, Training, And Fighting	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Americanized Muay Thai; well-rounded conditioning	The emphasis of this book seems to be conditioning more than technique.  However, that doesn't mean it isn't good.  There are five full chapters on physical fitness, and it's probably the most complete program I've seen in a martial arts book.  The conditioning covered is everything from calesthetics to weight training to stretching to cardio.  For those who are wondering what fitness has to do with fighting, well, it's a lot easier to defeat a person of equal skill and greater size if you have superior conditioning.  Anyway, I found these chapters easy to follow, and very insightful.  As far as the techniques go, they are described fairly well, and following a single offensive move are the defenses against it.  Punches are given the most detail, with sidebars providing extra tips for each punch.  Just for the record, pgs. 15-70 are devoted to these techniques.  There's also a chapter on training drills, which covers equipment and different drills to do based on what skill you want to emphasise.  On the down side, the &quot;self-defense&quot; section was kind of baren, the history chapter seemed a little rushed, and many combinations seemed to favor no-holds-barred contests instead of Muay Thai, in that there were throws and chokes.  Overall, a very good book, I just don't think it truly presented Muay Thai.  MMA/NHB atheletes might find it useful, as well as folks who are trying to spruce up their self-defense/full contact training.  Also, anyone who wants to use a Kickboxing-based workout program.	2004-02-14
US	37586281	RSRA71NM5K895	0873224086	830424427	Greco-Roman Wrestling	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Excellent wrestling book	For those who don't know, Greco-Roman wrestling utilizes throws that all occur above the waist.  This is a skill that can come into play in folkstyle and freestyle wrestling, as well as judo and NHB matches.  For that reason allone, I'd recomend getting this book.  The author does an excellent job of showing where control points are for this kind of wrestling, and devides the throws into body, arm, and head-and-arm techniques.  He also covers Par Terre, or ground wrestling, from a Greco-Roman point of view.  The chapter on basics is fantastic, and there are sections on drilling specific skills, such as the bridge, as well as some basic weight lifting, and even a training program.  This very rigorous sport has been given the master treatment by Mr. Martell.	2004-02-14
US	37586281	RTDAP8HE6R5FZ	1886969345	765982891	How to Defend Yourself: Effective & Practical Martial Arts Strategies	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Could be better	This book is mostly on using traditional kung-fu movements for self-defense.  The first chapter has little to do with defense, but is mostly on &quot;Martial Morality&quot;; nothing wrong with that, I just think it's a little out of place.  It also includes basic history and principles of White Crane and Long Fist styles.  The second chapter is on psychology of both an attacker and a victim.  I'm not sure that the author conveys quite what he meant here, as far as the criminal's psychology goes, and he advises not to fight against a gun, and doesn't seem to take into account that the defender may have no choice.  Chapter three covers hand-to-hand encounters, and includes pieces on distance, jointlocks (chin-na), blocking, kicking, and footwork.  The last chapter is on knife defense.  At the end is a glossary of Chinese terms.  Overall, though I think a practitioner of Chinese arts could use this book as a way to apply the movements he already knows, and a beginner would certainly learn some valuable lessons, but there are much simpler self-defense books out there.  Used with Dr. Yang's Long Fist and Chin Na books, one could get a very complete system, but it's hard for me to let this book stand alone.	2004-02-09
US	37586281	R1US8Z5BJLI4AD	0865681872	262381717	Anatomy of a Streetfight	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good Principles	This book is designed to acquaint martial artists with the concepts nessecary to carry them through a violent street encounter, mostly after it becomes apparent that a fight is about to go down.  Many of the principles are based on Bruce Lee's and Dan Inosanto's Jeet Kune Do work, and many of the terms that are used come from the Philipino martial arts and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu.  The book starts off by explaining the attributes nessecary for a complete martial artist, with brief examples on how to train those attributes.  Next, a pretty good game plan of dealing with street violence is presented with the Rapid Assault Tactics.  The idea is to enter using an interception (preimptive attack) or weapons distruction (striking out at an attacking limb), apply steady presure to the opponent using JKD/Wing Chun's straight blast, then finnish the opponent off using Muay Thai clinching/knee/elbow techniques.  Following that is a chapter on &quot;killer instinct&quot;, which amounts to controled, and possably lethal, agression.  This chapter just basically defines what killer instinct is, and how to use it, but doesn't cover much in the way of training to bring out that instinct.  The next chapter is on using Kino Mutai, the Philipino art of biting, pinching, and eye gouging.  This chapter is basically about what use in a street grappling situation, as the author espouses the idea that biting and gouging are preffeable to sweeps, switches, pins, and joint locks.  While my personal opinion is that sport grappling isn't best suited for a life-and-death struggle, many of the techniques are viable; none of those techniques are covered here, but the chapter is the only one on grappling/groundfighting in the book.  It does, however, teach the best way to use biting in groundfighting situations, and even tells you how to train your jaw!  Next is a chapter on edged weapon defense, where the principles are once again kept simple; run if you have the option, avoid the blade, cut the handholding the weapon if possable.  Concepts for knife vs. knife and knife vs. unarmed are covered, with some little drills.  There's then a chapter on the police use of force, written by Mr. Vunaks friends on the police force; it's interesting to read, and may help people in situations were poking a guy's eyes out aren't an option.  There is also a chapter on HIV, and basically says that you probably won't get AIDS simply from biting someone, but any open wound, be it on the mouth or elsewere, can result in infection.  Next is a chapter on women's defense, and deals with the fact that most women are attacked at close quarters.  Vunak uses the phrase &quot;Escape To Gain Safety&quot; to remind women to attack, however they can, the eyes, throat, groin, and shins.  Pretty simple and efficient.  The book ends with the legal considerations of combat in the streets, and how fare people are allowed to go to defend themselves.  Overall, this is a very good book, but not for the beginner or casual practitioner.  The main thing this book lacks is anything dealing with awareness, what to do so you don't end up in a conflict.  Also, it's more a book on principles than techniques; it makes sure the reader has a good game plan, but leaves it largely up to the reader to execute it.  A great book to suplement this would be &quot;Common Sense Self Defense&quot;.	2004-02-08
US	37586281	RHBNPB3772D1N	0873644840	786761622	Put 'Em Down, Take 'Em Out!: Knife Fighting Techniques From Folsom Prison	Books	4	47	47	N	N	All I really needed to know about using a knife...	As many previous reviewers stated, this book is pretty short (54 pages of information), but it's probably the best crash-course in knife fighting I've ever seen.  A lot of martial arts today that specialize in the knife actually speciallize in what Marc MacYoung calls &quot;knife dueling&quot;; they don't realize how knives are most often used in American culture: for assasination.  Whatever you call it, in the US, and I'm sure most of the western world, if a guy pulls a knife on you, he intends to kill you because he sees you as a victim, not an equal.  This book is all about one guy with a knife, and one guy without.  The techniques are simplistic, but effective, and incorperate empty-hand stragegies and tactics in harmony with the knife.  Things compatable with unarmed combat are stance, footwork, trapping, and grappling.  This book is about agression and simplicity, and in my oppinion ought to be the foundational book for any knife-fighting or -defense program.  The five chapters are &quot;Basics of Knife Fighting&quot;, &quot;Knife Fighting Myths&quot;, &quot;Knife Attack&quot;, &quot;Knife Defense&quot;, and &quot;Training&quot;.  Among the things that are covered are grips, group attacks, set-ups, mental tactics and training, and the stance-footwork-etc. stuff I mentioned earlier.  One thing that rubbed me a little wrong was how the guy basically said, &quot;Only my style works, forget anything else.&quot; While I would recomend anyone interested in knife fighting get this book, I'd say to not make it your only source of information.	2004-02-08
US	37586281	RTO9QWQZBEN1Q	0897500113	853386762	Hapkido: Korean Art of Self-Defense (Korean Arts Series)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Too simplistic, but OK for basics	Some folks have accused this book of being too close to Tae Kwon Do; that's ok, because most Hapkido books I've seen look too much like aikijutsu, with limited attention to strikes.  For the record, this book has a format similar to any Ohara Publications martial art book put out at the time.  It starts with a history-philosophy section that isn't given hardly enough attention, then goes into some basic excersises, including deep breathing excersises and several stretch, push-up and sit-up variations.  The most basic of strikes are then covered, and include the standard punch, backfist, knife-hand strikes, and elbows.  The too-short blocking chapter is next, followed by kicks, both beginning and advanced.  Then there are defenses shown against the punch and different types of kicks, which is OK in and of itself, followed by a self-defense chapter, where the only real locking techniques are shown.  The last page shows where different pressure points are on the body, but it's just a grey silouette with black dots on it.  The only person I'd recomend this book to is someone with little or no martial arts training, but then follow it with the warning to remember that these are only basic techniques, and not really the &quot;art&quot; of Hapkido.	2004-02-04
US	37586281	R15MCDI9Z9752E	0873645251	435979348	Kamikaze Fighting: The Self-Defense of Last Resort	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Violent crime... and how to prevent it!	This is an excellent book on how to stop violence from being inacted against you.  The prevailing attitude of the book is, &quot;don't fight unless life or limb are in danger, but if you fight, make it count&quot;.  The first four chapters of this book are primarily on mental preparation, and include concepts like &quot;no-mind&quot; and striking beyond your target.  Statistics of violent crime, up to date in 1986-87, are also presented, to let the reader know what he or she is up against.  Also included are some physical preparations, like training stances, &quot;circles of power&quot; for blocking, and &quot;tiger moves&quot;, a set of dynamic tension excersises.  The next four chapters are on stances and mobility, strikes, kicks, and blocking, falling, and defensive tactics, respectively.  The strikes include a variety of finger-jabs and open-hand strikes, and the blocks are kept circular; this shows Mr. Vassolo's roots in Kempo.  Next is &quot;Increasing Your Survivability&quot;, another mental preparation chapter, and then a chapter on dealing with weapons, multiple attackers, dogs (!), and crimes against women.  For the record, I can only remember one other book that discussed dog attacks, showing how thoroughly the author has prepared the reader.  The last chapter is on self-mastery, and other introspective subjects.  Finally, there are two appendixes, one on what body weapon is suited for what target (like &quot;eye-pokes with the fingers&quot;), and another on do-it-yourself katas.  This book works quite well with John McSweeney's &quot;Street Karate&quot;, as he is apparently Mr. Vassolo's teacher; it's addition can help &quot;Kamikaze&quot;'s readers better understand how the techniques are applied.  I would have sold the books as a set; sadly, as it is, I think both are now out of print.  This books strongest point is it's emphasis on mental/psychological preparation, and the only detraction I have is minor: I think there were too many finger-jab varieties that complecated things.  I'd recomend this book to anyone interested in self-defense, especially those with training in traditional martial arts.	2004-02-04
US	37586281	R1BVHSDS9BJ3FH	0961512628	778332293	Grappling Master: Combat for Street Defense and Competition	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great book on submission holds!	I love this book.  It gave me my first experience with submission holds, and taking what I learned, I tapped out a BJJ blue belt who outweighed me by 40lbs.  And that was when I didn't know any throws, pins, or escapes.  That's how good this book is.  \\"Judo\\" Gene starts off with the very basics of grappling with showing the ways to grip your hands together, including his \\"three-fingered\\" grip, and why not to lace your fingers together.  Then he demonstrates his 'slap-and-catch', which is a way to extend your opponents arm for locking.  Then it's on to the holds.  The holds are classified by what part of the body they work on, and include \\"Rib Crushing\\" and \\"Head Lock Varieties\\".  At the end of his book is a \\"Grab Bag\\" chapter, which is just a bunch of seemingly random techniques.  Some of the moves in this book are very complex, and best suited for showing off, but many are very good, and hardly ever seen in jujitsu or MMA competition, like the over-scissors and short-arm scissors, but I can tell you from experience that they work.  This isn't a self-defense book per say, but many of the moves could be incorperated into self-defense training.  Though it was written first, \\"Grappling Master\\" seems like the abridged version of Gene's \\"Grappling Encyclopedia\\", and I'd recomend that one get \\"Grappling Master\\" first, as most of the techniques are simplified from \\"Encyclopedia\\".  The only things that detract from this book is that there are no \\"heel hooks\\", and that the pictures were originally taken in 1986, so they don't look so great.  However, these holds are about as close to \\"catch wrestling\\" as any book I've ever seen, and include some \\"ripping\\" techniques.  A good buy, especially for someone who knows nothing of grappling holds.	2004-02-02
US	37586281	R3AN9LYM3UK6YE	0865681678	482305199	Jeet Kune Do Unlimited: A Jeet Kune Do Concepts Guidebook	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Does not deliver	The first half of this book does a pretty good job of scientifically breaking down martial arts and training.  The book starts off showing different symbolic jestures in the martial arts, such as bowing, and then explains the meaning of Bruce Lee's JKD symbol, then Richardson's JKDU symbol.  Whoopie.  Next is a list of the tennets of JKDU's philosophy, as well as it's fighting philosophy/tactics.  Interesting that the two should be separate.  There's actually some good stuff here, though.  Next, the five ways of attack are explained, as well as the three ways of defense; all very scientific, and all are included in any good JKD book elsewhere.  Mr. Richardson then gives his seven ranges of combat.  There are four empty-hand ranges and three weapons ranges.  I've grown out of the whole range concept thanks to &quot;Mastering Jiu-Jitsu&quot; by Renzo Gracie, and I'd recomend that book to any martial artist.  Six different postures are then classified; this does little more than make you aware that your body can be in at least six different possitions.  Then there's three pages on how there are billions of techniques, and a good bit about techniques as words, and how you learn to write your own sentences.  Different methods of training are classified next, including a section on spiritual training.  Once again, this is more or less to classify what you are doing.  Then, from pages 56-137, there is nothing but crap.  Not really crap, just a bunch of techniques to show you how much the author knows, really.  There wasn't much here that was related back to JKD principles.  If you don't know a lot of techniques, then this section might interest you.  Overall, though, I didn't see anything really new on the JKD front, and it seemed like the author just wrote this book to promote himself and his &quot;style&quot;, not to help others grow in the martial arts.  Nothing at all like the other JKD books out there.  It's a shame, because I do like Mr. Richardson's articles in IKF,and I hear that he's a good instructor.  Shame none of that showed in this text.	2004-02-02
US	37586281	R310XU2CL7ED7Z	0873647149	880412266	One-Strike Stopping Power: How To Win Street Confrontations With Speed And Skill	Books	3	18	18	N	N	For the non-martial artist	This book is almost totaly on how to hit weak spots with different parts of your body.  It's very cut-and-dry in that respect; you won't see any difficult stances or traditional katas here.  But the author was trying to orient it towards people who are afraid of getting hurt and want to learn how to defend themselves in empty-hand situations.  It does a pretty good job of succeeding.  It's kind of like MacYoung's \\"Fists, Wits and a Wicked Right\\", but without the macho showboating.  The author starts with an introduction that states, basically, \\"get in the first shot and run; if he's armed, just run\\".  Can't argue with that logic.  Next, weak points of the human body are covered.  The author uses what he calls the B.E.A.T. system; Brain, Eyes, Abdomen, and Testicles.  While the chapter does reveal an awful lot of weak spots, I think the classifications \\"Brain\\" and \\"Abdomen\\" are awfully general.  Then there are chapters on fist strikes, open hand strikes, knees & elbows, and kicks and stomps.  Pretty generic, but useful, stuff.  There is some ground fighting covered in the kicking section, but that's because it's all about kicking while you're on your back.  Good to know, but there's no grappling; it's hard to kick a guy when he's sitting on your chest.  There's a short chapter on pressure point that's a nice addition, and there's nothing mystic about the ones presented here (under the nose, behind the ear, etc.)  After that is a chapter on latteral movement and parrying, which provides raw basics for avoiding strikes.  There are then two chapters on conditioning, one on the upper body, and one on the lower body.  The last chapter, \\"The Dynamics of the Street\\", is a must-read for those who want to defend themselves.  It is on awareness of the street environment, something most traditional martial arts books fail to address.  I'd recomend this book to someone looking for a good basic self defense book, or to a martial artist who wants to know how to use their stuff onthe street.	2004-01-17
US	37586281	R3C947IWUAXU3Y	1931229325	359710342	Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Black Belt Techniques	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Techniques worth looking at.	Like most of the BJJ books being put out now, this book has detailed, color pictures, and the sequences are numbered and labeled.  Unfortunatly, the contents is a little lacking.  I think that the biggest disadvantage here is that these moves require an understanding of body movement that can't really be conveyed in a book.  While many of these moves end in a common submission hold, or have some other familiar element to them, they try to be \\"advanced\\" by showing different entries.  I think the term \\"Black Belt Techniques\\" is well applied, because I think you'd have to be fluent in the basics in order to pull off most of these moves.  For those with a good deal of experience in BJJ or submission wrestling, this is an OK book to look at, but I'm not sure the average reader or casual practitioner could gain too much from this.  In my experience, the moves presented here are ussually the kind of things you stumble on while in the middle of a match.  For the record, the first 85 techniques are all gi techniques, while the remaining 27 are no-gi holds, though as stated in other reviews, many of the gi techniques can be applied to no-gi situations, though not as many as I was led to believe.  I'd recommend this book for intermediate or advanced students, but only if you really feel that your arsenal is lacking, or if you have a partner whom you can really drill these moves with.	2004-01-04
US	37586281	R3O8MCGZYQTJUA	0965295257	601915215	The Science of Boxing: Rules and Articles on Training: Generalship in the Ring and Kindred Subjects	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Old, old school boxing.	This book was written as kind of a start-up book on boxing, written in 1893(!), but the basics are very sound.  The author trained, and trained with, many of the champions of the day, when Marquis of Queensberry was still new to the scene.  While he teaches gloved boxing, it was still a lot like the bareknuckle style that preceded it.  There was very little footwork, mostly just shuffling to get a better position, and the stance was very open, with the hands held a little lower.  However, a jab was still a jab, and a hook was still a hook.  The differences I noticed compared to today's boxing was that the fist appeared to be held with the knuckles aligned vertically, and it looked as if the uppercut was more of a swing with the back of the hand.  The author actually goes into pretty good detail about how the body moves to create the punch, and how the fist should be when punching.  He explains basic techniques, then provides the counters to them before moving on, and most of the moves have accompanying photos.  On the down side, according to the photos' numbers, a few are missing, though they're never mentioned, and the photos for the moves are hardly ever on the same page as the technique.  The section in the back of the book on training is still a little useful today, but I wouldn't treat is as the gospel of boxing training.  Overall, a very good book for the beginner on learning how to punch, but it won't make you Ali overnight.	2004-01-04
US	37586281	R1SM3TJ7ANUNDD	0809257238	972559173	Winning Karate	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Preperatory book from an Isshin-ryu teacher.	This is a pretty good start-up book for anyone just entering a karate class.  It's filled with the basic technical stuff, like stances, kicks, and blocks, but also has some good information that can prepare one for competition, including entire training regimens for kata and sparring.  The conditioning that is covered ranges from weight training to stretching to some traditional karate excercises.  There is also a chapter on self-defense, which looks like a lot of stuff featured in books of that era (high kicks and such, little grappling), but it's definetly worth looking at, and includes weapons defenses.  The book also gives some introduction in weapons katas and breaking, and has a final chapter on choosing the right school.  Some other highlights include the author showing different sparring combinations, and telling what parts of the body to target with different body weapons (like the palm or forefist).  It's a good book for anyone studying karate, and serves as a great introduction to those new to the art.	2004-01-04
US	37586281	R27NPJTRSVO8HW	0873649664	767608634	Street Karate: A Complete Course in Self-Defense	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Shows proven applications of Kenpo	I like this book very much, primarily because it was based on actual studies of violent confrontations, and showed the techniques that were used effectively.  However, the basic moves were not shown by themselves anywhere in the book, and I believe that someone with no formal training in a striking art might have some problems with that.  However, for those who do have training, this book shows the applications of most familiar techniques in a real-life setting.  Also, \\"Kamakaze Fighting,\\" by Michael Vassolo, does show the basic techniques by themselves, and these two books complement each other well (the authors of these two books are apparently longtime associates, who use the same style).  \\"Street Karate\\" is mostly a case-study book, and the lessons in it are valuable to any practitioner of Karate/Kenpo/TKD who wants to see how effective his techniques are on the street.  Those with no martial arts experience can find value in it, but I'd recommend picking up \\"Kamakaze Fighting\\" if you're not familiar with karate-style strikes.	2003-12-27
US	37586281	RX6JD9FHJ95KU	0873645863	724294757	Bouncer's Guide to Barroom Brawling: Dealing with the Sucker Puncher, Streetfighter, and Ambusher	Books	4	54	57	N	N	Good, principle-based book	There's a lot of good things to be said for this book.  The author has been exposed to a handful of very different martial arts styles, and has worked as a bouncer, and so has field-tested a lot of this stuff.  He emphasises principles over technique, a concept that makes the techniques actually easier to apply.  The author goes into the \\"fight interview\\", which a lot of \\"saloon warriors\\" will use to determine whether or not a victim is ripe for attack.  He goes through some techniques to avoid the sucker punch, which is something missing from many self-defense books.  While I don't think that all of his stuff is a good idea (one of his avoidence techniques is to act crazy... but in public?), I think that it is worth looking at.  The actual techniques are drawn from Wado-ryu Karate, Wing Chun and White Crane Kung Fu, Judo, Aikido, and a little boxing.  He doesn't cover grappling too well, and completely avoids the subject of ground fighting, but the idea, I guess, is to make sure you never go to the ground.  Any wrestling or BJJ book will teach some good reversals and escapes, and can be used to suplement this book.  The overall idea of this book is that real fighting is messy and technically ugly, so it's best to have a handful of high-percentage techniques, as well as a good grasp of the principles behind them, but realize that \\"anyone can get their [booty] kicked\\".  This book has valuable chapters on distancing, facing, and footwork, how to recognize a sucker punch, and choosing a martial art that's right for you.  For those that practice at home, there are a number of drills included to help one function under high-stress scenarios.  I'd say that for someone who's really interested in good self-defense, this book and it's system would be a good foundation, especially if you've got experiance in a \\"hard\\" style.  But as I mentioned earlier, I think the program needs to be suplemented by a groundfighting/grappling program, and probably some weapons training.  Overall, though, I'm glad I bought the book.	2003-12-20
US	37586281	R3H7CNKGW3N33V	0920129005	641402759	Dynamic Ju Jitsu	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Good, but I prefer &quot;Small Circle...&quot;	I guess the only reason I didn't rate this book higher is that I owned &quot;Small Circle Jujitsu&quot; for years, and this is kind of an abridged version of that book.  This book sort of gets down to bare basics of the Small Circle style, but provides what may be simpler explainations of the small-circle theory.  The pictures are of poor quality, as is the print, but the techniques are OK.  Once again, throws and chokes using the gi are featured, with a handful of gi-less techniques.  Revival techniques, breakfalls and rolling, and wrist-extention excersises are featured at the beginning of the book.  There are an assortment of wrist- and fingerlocks shown, as well as a variety of chokes.  The throws section looks a little bare.  This might be a good book for bouncers or other people who need to &quot;evict&quot; or control hostiles without punching them out; a lot of the locks are shown as being used to lift an opponent off the floor in a controled possition.  I'd say get this only if you can't afford &quot;Small Circle Jujitsu&quot; by Prof. Jay.	2003-12-20
US	37586281	RNDBYYIYYWXKO	0897500946	96058077	Championship Kenpo (Specialties Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Basic intro into BKF Kenpo	I've tried so long to find a good book on Kenpo technique, and this may have the most info.  The book starts off by giving a one-page history on the evolution of Kenpo, leading up to the influence of the Black Karate Federation.  This style apparently has it's roots in the Mitose-Parker lineage, which is what most Kenpo styles in the US are based on.  Following the intro are some conditioning excersises, which include some very explosive sit-up and push-up variations.  Next, the book goes into \\"12 basic techniqes\\", which is a simplification of stance, striking, kicking, and blocking.  The next chapter, \\"27 Nerves,\\" is disappointing, as only 10 vital points are covered.  The chapter does include a method for determining the best way to strike these points, which was refreshing.  The are also chapters on speed and confidence, but I found only the first pages useful in each case.  Then there is a self-defense chapter, which is mostly defenses for a couple of grabs.  Many chapters include combinations of techniques vs. basic punches, but the movement doesn't look as fluid as I think it could be, and I never really understood why certain combinations were in the \\"Speed\\" and \\"Confidence\\" chapters.  I think the people who could get the most out of this book are folks who have enough martial arts experiance to know the difference between a backfist and hammerfist; it's not for the beginner, and is barely applicable to most people in the self-defense arena.  However, it is the only book I've found which shows authentic Kenpo combinations, and some of the principles are good to know.  In conclusion, I'd say I liked the idea of simplifying the techniques and principles, but I thought the combinations just had too many strikes to be realistic.	2003-12-20
US	37586281	R182AT7HB89NR6	0809256568	373702077	Wrestling For Beginners	Books	4	37	37	N	N	Great book on basic wrestling skills	I've looked at a lot of grappling and wrestling books over the years, but none of then covers the basic skills as thoroughly as this one does.  The book starts off by giving a history of wrestling, going all the way back to ancient times.  Another beginning chapter covers the fundamentals of a wrestling training program, like dieting and the nature of excersises.  Much more detail is given to the seven basic wrestling skills: stance, movement, penetration, lifting, back arching, backstep, and changing levels.  Easy to follow, black and white photos give examples of both the right and wrong ways to perform these skills.  The technique section is very basic, but covers most of the common skills, like the double-leg, high crotch, and head-and-arm throw for takedowns, stand-ups and sitouts in the escapes section, and half Nelson and cradles for the breakdowns/pinning section.  The appendix on weight classes and scoring would be helpful to people unfamiliar with the sport, as is the rather extensive glossary.  The book is easy to follow, and is essential for understanding the basics of amature wrestling.  I'd recomend it to wrestlers of all levels as kind of a &quot;back to the basics&quot; book, to martial artists looking to expand their grappling arsenal, and to those interested in grappling for self-defense, as the throws and escapes are workable in a scuffle.	2003-12-20
US	37586281	R30OONPCI7VJ0M	1880336243	170735182	Taekwondo Kyorugi: Olympic Style Sparring	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good for the serious competitor	I've never been a fan of point sparring, but I have to admit this is a pretty good book.  It's definetly not for the beginner, though.  The technique section is very basic, giving only the briefest of discriptions on the kicks, but also providing suggestions on how the moves are best utilized.  The book then goes into stratagies for TKD style sparring, though most of the drills and principles can be used by karateka as well.  What does show a lot of depth is that the authors include chapters on sports medicine, nutrition, mental preparation, and conditioning.  A lot of that information is useful to any serious martial artist who participates in point sparring, and I'd recoment the conditioning excersises be applied to any program.  The book ends with a chapter on Olympic TKD rules, including weight classes and a list of fouls.  A glossary follows.  As this book was designed to prepare competitors and coaches for Olympic-level competition, I'd call it an essential publication to anyone who is competing at the national levels in any martial art point sparring.	2003-12-20
US	37586281	R3K9J958N0DW7	0873647793	839695573	Advanced Dim-mak: The Finer Points Of Death-Point Striking	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Great follow-up book	This book is an excellent continuation of Mr. Montaigue's first book, &quot;Dim-Mak: Death Point Striking&quot;.  In this book, the author goes into footwork, and how to keep your ballance while moving (ignored by a lot of folks); how to handle a knife attack; different Qi-gong and other excersises; qi-related nutrition, and much more!  I think a lot of what's in this volume could probably stand alone, but to truly begin to understand it's depth, the first book is needed.  Once again, the author's style of writting is very laid-back and personable; I felt like he was right there, talking to me.  As for the content, this book has so much that's missing from other books on the Chinese and/or internal martial arts.  For those who don't know, a lot of Mr. Montaigue's system is based on T'ai Chi and Paqua; he's just put claws on those styles, and made them &quot;martial&quot; again.  The chapter on how to bring up internal &quot;animal&quot; energy was very unique, and the chapter on knife defense seems very practical.  A chapter on martial arts ethics is also included, which was nice, as well as a chapter discussing teaching martial arts to children.  If you own &quot;Death Point Striking&quot;, and wish to learn more on the subject, this should be your next book.  I'd also recomend this to those who wish to learn about holistic health from a Chinese perspective, as well as martial artists who are searching for more than just the latest fad, who really want to refine themselves.	2003-12-19
US	37586281	R139HXMGNVTTJC	0804831513	68518633	Inside the Lion's Den: The Life and Submission Fighting System of Ken Shamrock	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Very insightful book	I have to admit, I was already a fan of Shamrock's before picking up the book.  The first two-thirds of the book is biographical in nature.  It depicts Shamrock in a very possitive light, without making him look completely untarnished.  This part sort of bounces around, with every other chapter being a chronological account of his life, and the other chapters being about the biuldup to his second Superfight with Severn.  Still, it's a fun read, and gives some interesting insights into the life of &quot;The World's Most Dangerous Man&quot;.  It was definitly oriented towards an American audience who was familiar with Shamrock's UFC fights, as his time in Japan and his early Toughman comptetitions were barely covered.  The second part of the book was on the physical and mental conditioning of a Lion's Den fighter, or more specifically, Ken Shamrock.  The technical side is a little weak, with only one real takedown being shown, and all the &quot;armlocks&quot; are variations of the &quot;jujigatame&quot;-style, between-the-legs arm bar.  On the other hand, the stuff on the different mobility drills, as well on the mental preparation Shamrock does for a fight, is golden.  Also of value are his tips on handling different types of opponents, and the chapter on nutrition.  Going back to the techniques, I'd say that while they're not a complete arsenal, they could give someone with no grappling experience some very essential and workable holds.  Certian details that can be applied to many moves are covered as well, like steping with your punches instead of leaning into them, or pinching your knees togeather for an armbar instead of scissoring your ankles for leverage.  And to give credit where it's due, this is where I learned the &quot;heel hook&quot;, a move that's beaten more folks than I can count.  This is a good book for traditional martial artists who know nothing about grappling or submissions, or for any MMA/NHB fan.  The stuff on conditioning and mental preparation are probably useful to any athelete, to some degree.	2003-12-19
US	37586281	RCEFOSERZD6DY	0873224825	700935968	Winning Wrestling Moves	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Best technique book on the market	This is the most comprehensive book on wrestling technique I've been able to find.  The chapters are as such: Basic Skills; Takedowns (106 pages worth!); Escapes and Reversals; Breakdowns, Rides, and Pinning Combinations; Freestyle Turns.  The emphasis seems to be on takedowns, but the other sections are good too.  The only chapter that really came up short was the one on basic skills, but &quot;Wrestling for Beginners&quot; by Jarman and Hanley can be used to make up for that.  While the pictures are in black and white, they are as clear as can be expected, and the wrestlers are always wearing different collored singlets so the reader can distinguish them.  The sequences are relativley easy to follow, and the moves' counters are shown back-to-back with the countered technique.  Speaking as a submission wrestler, this book definetley improved my game, and I think any martial artist with a realistic training program will find it helpful.  I'd also recomend that any high-school wrestler who wants to expand his arsenal buy this book; your coach, no matter how good he is, doesn't have time to show you everything.  The only real complaint I have is that some techniques are reffered to before they're shown, which was a little confusing.  However, the index and table of contents can solve most of those hang-ups.	2003-12-19
US	37586281	R1B3TAR0BBEY86	1581603150	115740410	How To Fight Tough	Books	2	19	24	N	N	OK self-defense moves, some historic value	I like the fact that I can't really find a bad technique in this book.  The tone of the book is deadly serious, though the political overtones of WWII are imposable to ignore.  The reason I don't rate this book higher is because it is simply a series of self-defense sequenses; there is no real &quot;system&quot; presented.  The combinations shown herein are all valid, workable moves, taken from street boxing, catch wrestling, Japanese jujitsu, and WWII comando training.  While one can learn practical self-defense from this book, the lack of organization makes other books on the subject far more useful.  The aspect that suprised me was the ammount of catch wrestling techniques included, such as the toe hold and figure-four choke.  Another thing that this book had that isn't found in too many other souces was the use of your opponent's clothing, in a non-judo manner, to execute a technique.  Once again, the induvidual sequenses are good; it's just the lack of an organized system that I don't like.  OK for some good self-defense &quot;tricks&quot;, but most other books are better.	2003-12-16
US	37586281	R1M9AZ0PODS55	0873648994	587115932	A Professional's Guide to Ending Violence Quickly: How Bouncers, Bodyguards, and Other Security Professionals Handle Ugly Situations	Books	4	27	27	N	N	I actually liked it.	Well, I have to admit that I liked this book, even though I still think the author plays &quot;tough guy&quot; too often.  This book was valuable because, largely, of two things: it's breakdown of psychology of troublemakers; it's explaination of the principles behind trips and sweeps.  The basis of this book was how to handle a violent situation without resorting to extreme force, and in that regard I think it succeeded.  MacYoung explains the different kinds of social violence a person may have to deal with, going into stuff like ego games and how to handle different kinds of attitudes before they turn violent.  He also goes into an admitedly lazy way of taking a guy down, invovling shoulder and hip bumps, with lots of trips thrown in too.  He actually has some very valuable information on avoiding blows, redirecting energy, and the propper way to kick someone's feet out from under them.  I also found the appendix on &quot;Murphy's Laws&quot; pretty amusing.  Downsides to the book are crude drawings, and the ultra-macho attitude the author exudes in all of his books.  Still, the info in this book is eye-opening, so I'd recomend it for the takedown and/or psych text.	2003-12-15
US	37586281	RYMUKTJYYQPES	096704300X	534543110	Fighter's Notebook: A Manual of Mixed Martial Arts	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Comprehensive MMA book	Though I don't particularly like the binder idea, the contents of the book are worth the cost.  For the most part, the different chapters cover possitions and how to use them.  In other words, Ch. 1 is &quot;Attack from Stand-up&quot;, and Ch. 2 is &quot;Defending Against Stand-up&quot;.  Possitions covered include stand-up(covers striking, clinching, and throws), Side, Mount, Back mount, and Guard.  There are also chapters on conditioning/training, and on rules for a MMA/NHB competition.  The finnishes that are shown are pretty standard, and run the gammut from chokes to keylocks to heel hooks and knee- and arm-bars.  The important stuff, though, isn't really the finnishes, it's the countergrappling that's included, and how the authors &quot;troubleshoot&quot; the holds to make them more efficient.  There is some concentration on being able to finnish a guy in such a way that he can't counter you, or cause you dammage.  One thing I've notice in some schools is they concentrate too much on what they can do to an opponent, and not on keeping themselves safe; this book solves that problem.  Other cool additions to this book that you don't see too many other places is attacking an opponent who's against a cage or wall, how to strike from the different ground possitions, and how to set up a tounament, incuding the use of a bye chart.  Pluses in the format is that each section concentrates on a specific aspect of the fight game (ex: Attack from back mount), and the table of contents further shows were to find a specific section of that chapter (ex: Attack from back mount-Overcomming choke resistance when his chin is tight). While the photos span two pages, ussually, to show a sequence, there are arrows, as well as numbers, to show when one picture follows another. There is also a pretty handy index in the back.  The down side of the format is that, being a binder, the pages are constantly in danger of tearing out.  Another little problem I have is that the text is a little sporadic at times.  As far as the material goes, I would have liked to see a little more depth given to striking from the feet.  I also find it strange that the text teaches heel hooks, but when it provides rules for a competition, prohibits their use.  Overall, though, I'd say this book gives the reader the basic technical tools nessesary to compete in MMA/NHB competitions.  I'd also say that it's not something you read to learn how to do, for example, an knee bar; you read it to learn how to set up, then execute a knee bar from a possition you didn't think of doing it from before, and do it while taking a minimum ammount of dammage.	2003-12-15
US	37586281	R30TWPYX64TR72	0865681767	755993658	Principles, Analysis, and Application of Effortless Combat Throws	Books	5	12	12	N	N	View-changing book	This book was great from start to finnish.  The author starts out by changing the way throws are classified.  He defines them by how the opponent moves through space, and simplifies it into arcs, spirals, and circles.  He then moves in to eight principles of motion for effortless throws, like transfer of momentum, and then goes into different methods of executing those principles.  Chapter two focuses on eight principles of &quot;body use&quot;, which amounts to some very specific details about proper posture, but which is nessesary in order to execute throws with minimum effort.  These two very important chapters make up about 1/4 of the book.  The next chapter goes into the performance of the throws, as classified by arcs, circles, and spirals.  There is even a separate part for sacrifice throws.  In demonstrating a throw, Mr. Cartmell starts by describing the throw, showing how it is applied, then analyzing it's entry, the throw itself, and the use of your own body in the throw.  He then gives examples of how to move into the throw based on different defenses, such as vs a punch or headlock.  At the end of the book is an appendix section that covers a broad range of topics, like relaxation and stability vs. mobility.  The focus of the book is using a minimum amount of force to throw an opponent, and I believe it explains it well.  I would recomend this book to folks who have to use throws for self-defense, such as bouncers and police officers, and for those who wish to understand the internal arts, but like me, don't really get the whole &quot;expand your chi&quot; thing.  It's also just a really good book to read, and would complete anyones martial arts library.	2003-12-15
US	37586281	R34KBN2G9GQR0N	0865680809	378717433	Shaolin Five Animals	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Decent demonstration of the form	This book seemed more geared towards learning a form, and introducing the &quot;Five Animals&quot; principles, than presenting an entire art.  However, the form itself is fairly complex, as it is in essence five different forms strung togeather in a logical manner.  The first chapter is just a couple of pages long, giving a brief history on developement of Chinese fighting specific to the animals style.  The following five chapters detail the five animals one by one: the dragon, tiger, snake, crane, and leopard, with no apparent order.  Those chapters cover the physical and mental/spiritual/psychological characteristics of the different styles.  Then there is a short chapter on the stages of learning the form, and finally a chapter showing the complete form.  I'd say that this part was pretty easy to follow, with the main problems being that some possitions were only shown from behind.  Each photo has text describing it's actions underneath it.  It is an eye-opening and physically challenging form, and is great at least for developing ballance and endurence.  The last chapter shows applications of some of the movements.  All in all, I'd say that someone with a background in most striking arts ought to be able to grasp what's going on.  The chapter on the form itself is the meat of the text, with the rest of the book being a good intro into the Five Animals form, but nothing extrordinary stands out to me.	2003-12-01
US	37586281	R1VLY745D2F5QP	0736044043	905054436	Mastering Jujitsu (Mastering Martial Arts Series)	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Good book for any reallity-based martial artist.	I LOVE THIS BOOK!  This is one of the most comprehensive works on the principles behind one-on-one, unarmed combat that I've read.  We're not talking one of those &quot;every move in the world&quot; books here, though some are included.  No, this is more on principles and theories which reallity fighting, specifically jujitsu, embrace.  The book starts out with a rather extensive history of BJJ, going all the way back to ancient Japan.  Briefly covered are the different theories of how martial arts developed around the world, which was interesting to read.  The book then goes into the different stages of combat; the clinch, the free-movement phase, and groundfighting.  I have to admit, I've never really been satisfied with &quot;long, medium, short&quot; or &quot;kicking, punching, trapping, grappling&quot;, and I'm a little jealous that I didn't think of Gracie's stages of a fight on my own.  His division is based on the different skills needed for each stage of a fight.  Further chapters cover the stages by themselves.  The free-movement chapter covers basic strikes, blocks, and long-range &quot;shooting&quot; takedowns.  The section on the clinch actually goes over the most common clinch possitions (over-under, front headlock, double-underhook, etc.), and includes brief strategy for both.  The authors give insights into strikes, takedowns, and submissions from the various clinch possitions.  Groundfighting is covered in the next chapter.  The focus is on the different possitions/pins, and is covered in a hierarchical manner, from most desirable to least desirable.  Two chapters are then devoted to specific aspects of grounfighting; winning from the bottom, and winning from the top.  These are probably the most technique-rich sections.  Escapes from bad possitions, transitional movements to different possitions, and common submissions are shown.  After that is a short chapter on training in general, and competitions that attract BJJ stylists are given a little detail (sport BJJ, submission wrestling, and MMA events).  The last chapter is on using the theories of BJJ that have been presented in the book for self-defense.  This one chapter is what Royce and Charles Gracie's self-defense book should have covered.  Among other things, this chapter goes into the &quot;prayer stance&quot;, a seemingly benign possition that enables you to defend yourself efficiently; six general catagories of violent encounters, and how their dynamics might effect the techniques used; and how to deal with common attacks, including a very pragmatic look at group attack.  A nice feature of this book is that the authors look to present all views and theories of a situation, even if it doesn't really jive with BJJ's main tenents.  I can also see how the style keeps evolving with exposure to different arts; many of the clinch moves are taken directly from amature wrestling, and the only kick presented is the Thai-style roundhouse kick.  As I mentioned earlier, this book isn't a mega-technique book, but the techniques that are presented could be best termed &quot;essential&quot;.  The authors also make no bones about the environment that thier theories best suit: one-on-one, unarmed combat.  There is definitely a sense of prejudice towards grappling and groundfighting, and this is where I kind of take issue with some of the stuff said.  Early MMA/NHB events are brought in as evidence of &quot;little guy beats big guy using grappling&quot;, but in UFC's 1-7, without going into too much detail, of six cases where the winner of a match was greatly outweighed, three were won by striking, and two of the remaining matches ended up with the grappler taking a severe beating, and the last one lasted about 20 min. with little action.  In other words, I question the &quot;little guy beats big guy using grappling&quot; theory based on those events.  Other than that, no real complaints.  Great book overall, and an exelent illustration of BJJ theories and how they'reapplied.  Good for anyone interested in what to expect out of a one-on-one, weaponless fight, or a MMA/NHB event.	2003-11-30
US	37586281	R1Y0LBKIALHVWQ	0865680078	534076860	The Art of Stretching and Kicking	Books	2	2	2	N	N	OK, good for begginers.	I would recomend this book for someone who wants to learn &quot;cool kicks&quot;, and basically look like Jean Claude Van Dam.  The book has very little text.  It's devided into two sections: the first half is on stretches, and the second half is on kicking (big supprise, huh?).  The stretches deal mostly with the legs and torso/back, which is OK, given that this is a book on kicks, and not punches.  The section on kicks deals with a variety of kicks, from the basic to advanced, but most of it is high, flashy stuff that looks good in competitions.  I'd say that the greatest benifit is that of health, or good form.  Some of the kicks might be useful in point fighting.  I know from experience that the stretches work, at least for me, so I wouldn't consider it a bad buy.	2003-11-30
US	37586281	RSYIXF3VICH5T	1581601387	534402432	Low Kicks: Aiming Low For Maximum Punishment In Unarmed Combat	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Very specific book.	Ah, low kicks, what some would call the &quot;most practical&quot; way to use your feet.  This book is pretty much for the novice, but it can certainly add to most folk's arsenal.  The best part for me were the training methods to improve accurracy, but they weren't really anything new.  The kicks that are covered are classified as either &quot;chambered&quot; or &quot;unchambered&quot;, but I did notice that probably the most proven low kick was missing; the Thai round kick to the thigh!  This book seems like it was written in the Bruce Tegner days, when Karate, Judo, and Jujitsu were the only Asian arts, and Savate was our (westerners) answer to it.  However, if you know nothing about low kicks, and want to get REALLY good at them, then this is the book for you.  My major complaints are the poor illustrations (I would have prefered stick figures to these drawings), and the lack of applications.  Make no mistake, low kicks are important, but this book is on low kicks only.  I think it should be a suplementary text and nothing more.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R16CW7YY7UHYTJ	0865680442	466842541	Northern Sil Lum Form Number Seven Plum Flower Fist (Unique Literary Books of the World) (No. 7)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good book on Shaolin form.	Moi Fah: The Plumb Flower Fist is one of the easiest books on forms to understand.  The form itself is clearly photographed, and the author does a great job of explaining what's going on.  Applications of techniques are spread throughout the form.  Also of value are the warm-ups at the beggining of the book, as well as the explainations of body movements in the back.  This is a good book to learn this particular form, and gave me my first exposer to Chinese long boxing.  The only reason I didn't give it five stars is because of it's limited scope.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R1ZPMAS6GSHN7A	0865681945	663831166	The Essence of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Best bang for your buck, where submissions are concerned.	Though the book is kind of small, it does have probably the greatest variety of submissions for the least amount of space.  Most of the book is devoted to submissions with a gi, but there is a chapter on non-gi hooks.  The book is organized, chapter-wise, into the part of the body the hold works (legs, chokes, arms).  It's not as detailed as other works, and covers only submission holds (instead of throws, strikes, possitions, reversals), and in that, I think the title is misleading.  But if you're going to be using a gi with your submissions, go ahead and pick up this book.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R248IMERIDVKXE	1884654185	402349170	More No Holds Barred Fighting: Killer Submissions (No Holds Barred Fighting series)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Great for improving your submission game.	I would definatly consider this a book for advanced grapplers.  The book opens with Hatmaker giving his thoughts on workouts for NHB fighters, which is helpful, and then addresses something I had to discover the hard way: breath control!  Remember, oxygen is your fuel, and Hatmaker and his drills make sure you don't burn it all up in the first moments of a match.  He then has a short little chapter on the reason why you pull stuff into your chest, and then dives into submission chains.  These chains follow a logical progression, and cover situations that can (and do) occure in a grappling situation.  It's stuff like what to do when you've applied a hold and the guy does something unexpected to get out, and how you can use that new possition to continue your &quot;submission chain&quot;.  The only reason I don't give this book a full five stars is that it is oriented to a specific audience (folks who use submission grappling for sport, who know enough holds to be able to work the chains), and that the majority of the book, on the chains, is such a specific type of fighting.  I would recomend not getting this book unless you have his first book, &quot;No Holds Barred Fighting&quot;, unless you do submission grappling against upper-level competition, and you need to add something to your game.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R2JT43Q7R1AL0G	0873648846	579258875	San Shou Kung Fu Of The Chinese Red Army: Practical Skills And Theory Of Unarmed Combat	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Military meets kung-fu meets kickboxing.	This book is a pretty decent one overall.  Like Mr. Hui's other book (Effective Techniques for Unarmed Combat), this book is kind of a &quot;thinking man's&quot; approach to turning Chinese arts into combat form, vs. the art or health aspect.  Included in the book are a set of 18 principles, which are very good by themselves, but you could devote entire chapters to most of them, instead of giving little blurbs.  The techniques covered in this text are enough to give most people a well-rounded and effective arsenal.  I do believe, however, that most of this stuff would work best in a one-on-one situation.  That's not to say it's ineffective for self defense, but just a specific kind of defense.  There are some reversals from headlocks and mount possitions, and stuff like that which ought to be part of any self-defense program, but nothing really new on the technical side of things.  I do like how the author tried to link the one-on-one situations back to Chinese battlefield principles, like creating a localized strength.  This book takes some Chinese fighting principles found in Kung Fu, adds some almost western kickboxing, and throws in some common military style locks and escapes.  They make a pretty good combination, and if you're looking for a reality-based art with very little mysticism, and have nothing like it near you, this book would be good to pick up, along with the other text by Hui mentioned above.  Experienced martial artists may find the principles the most enlightening part of this book.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R3OK3SRH06EHDG	0312264364	185011649	The Elite Forces Handbook of Unarmed Combat	Books	3	27	27	N	N	Another misleading title, but a very good book in general.	How I wish the term 'Handbook' had not been used...  This is another one of those books that's as good for martial artists (to broaden their horizons) as it is for military science buffs (albeit in a very specific area: soldier training).  This book starts by specifying the needs of a soldier in the field, where unarmed combat is concerned, and then goes into a quick (and somewhat inaccurate, to me) overview of traditional martial arts.  I'd say that as someone who does a lot of solo training, the most valuable part of this book to me was the section on how SPECOPS trains their people in a short period of time.  While techniques are explained, many are not illustrated, so this is definetly not a how-to book.  This book coveres a little history, some training methods, vital targets, some escapes and combinations, and defense against various weapons, including bayonets, guns, knives, and clubs.  I never really learned what particular special forces these techniques were derived from, though to be honest, I didn't see anything really &quot;special&quot; about most of it.  I wish the author had given a references or bibliography section.  I will say that the pencil illustrations are some of the best I've seen, very realistic.  While this wouldn't be my first choice to go to for self-defense techniques, it does make a pretty good reference manual.  Decent, for what it offers, but please understand that it is primarily a reference book.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	ROJ0YR4TDPVA1	0897500539	665559790	Bruce Lee's Fighting Method, Vol. 4	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another good book in a series.	This is a book that is almost immediatly applicable to a point sparring situation, but also just good for learning one-on-one fighting techniques.  I think the only &quot;advanced&quot; principle is feinting, and maybe the parts on stop-hitting and dealing with different kinds of fighters.  I consider this book as part of a whole, although it can stand alone for the average martial artist.  The basic techniques, such as the side kick and backfist, are probably familiar to most &quot;hard&quot; stylists, but I think the idea of having your dominant side forward, and striking primarily with your lead weapons, may be new to some.  This approach to JKD emphasises fluidity and adaptability, and some of that comes out in this text.  I would recomend also picking up the other books in this series, as well as &quot;Tao of Jeet Kune Do&quot; for a more complete coverage of this unique style.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R2F2LTYUX97T02	0873649346	418662020	Championship Streetfighting: Boxing As A Martial Art	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Best book on knockout punching I've read.	I thought that this book, overall, was pretty good, and it covers basically how to hit, bareknuckle, with power.  It's a good book for NHB/MMA guys, and guys who expect to be in a streetfighting scenario.  It's a little secondary when it comes to self-defense, though.  I do notice that the author tends to belittle most &quot;strip mall dojos&quot;, but I don't really have a problem with that; the majority of eastern martial arts schools in the US don't deal with one-on-one, bareknuckle fighting, which is OK, as long as they don't sell themselves that way.  (More on this subject, read Geoff Thompson's stuff; Karate black-belt turned bouncer makes for eye-opening reading)  I'll say that I don't feel that this book did enough with footwork or evasiveness, but other than that, it's pretty good about using the hands offensively in a fight.  Take it for what it is; if you're a traditional martial artist, ignore the less-than-educated comments, and if you don't know anything about fighting and want to buy this book so you can &quot;handle&quot; yourself, go ahead, but realize that this isn't the only piece to the fighting/martial arts puzzle.  In summery, this is probably the most detailed book I've read on using boxing techniques to get power into your punches, but lacks a lot of defensive stuff.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	RJ1H54LM6M07K	1892515180	736355836	Effective Techniques for Unarmed Combat	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very cut-and-dry book on fighting physics	This book is a very good one for understanding the most effective ways to move the body in a fight.  The author starts off going into leverage in what he titles \\"A Primer\\", and then goes into the physics and biomechanics of throwing powerful strikes, including putting the maximum amount of weight into a punch.  The second chapter is \\"Guiding Principles for Kickboxing\\", and goes into powerful, nontelegraphic blows while keeping a good defensive possition.  The third chapter goes a little into jointlocks, and specifically the \\"wakigatame\\" style arm bar.  The next chapter, on \\"combat wrestling\\", goes into a few basic, but effective, takedowns, used primarilly as examples to illustrate the authors principles.  I think the chapter on unarmed vs. knives is worth looking at, but wouldn't be my #1 source of information on the subject.  The last real chapter is unique in that it's about sentry removal in a non-lethal manner for the military.  The book ends with a scientific breakdown of Holyfield/Tyson.  It's a very good book, especially for the power-hitting and leverage chapters.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R1M8XILSUDZFWY	0873647181	390793665	Dim-mak: Death Point Striking	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Good stuff on the art of Dim Mak	I'm sure some people are reading my title and saying, &quot;but dim-mak isn't an art&quot;, but that's what this book pretty much focuses on.  Erle Montaigue is best at putting horns and claws on the internal Chinese arts, and that's exactly what he does in this book.  It's a great book on accupuncture points, their martial applications, and using taiji to attack them.  The sections on C-back and Fa-jing are useful to everyone.  The author goes into how the points work, how to counter the effects of being hit in those points, basic &quot;chi circulation&quot; theory, some chi kung, and some excersises to mess with your chi flow.  I have just some minor complaints about this book.  First, some of the points mentioned were not actually covered, like &quot;strike point so-and-so&quot;, but no where in the book is that point's location given.  Also, it's kind of oriented to someone with some background in taiji (t'ai chi), which I'm not, so some references to certain possitions just left me confused.  There is a video that makes this book easier to understand, done by Montaigue, by Paladin Press.  Overall, a very unique look at pressure-point striking, offering insights into why these points work the way they do.  A good book for anyone interested in the subject of pressure-point strikes.  This is one of my favorite books, and I learn something new every time I read it.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R2GB4P4KK7EU14	0873646118	467401288	Fists, Wits, And A Wicked Right: Surviving On The Wild Side Of The Street	Books	3	15	17	N	N	An eye-opener where various punches are concerned.	Ah, my love-hate relationship with Macyoung continues...  Mostly, I don't like the tough-guy attitude that goes with these books, but the techniques, while unorthodox, can work if you practice them, and the underlying principles are almost always sound.  This is probably Macyoung's most technique-oriented book, and covers mostly targets, devided into general areas (head, neck, limbs).  I like the fact that Macyoung addresses the often avoided question of what part of the fist to strike with, and offers several options without really playing favorites.  I still don't really think his &quot;hanging punch&quot; is all that great, but it did open my eyes enough to tweek it a little bit to fit me.  I'm also not too sure some of the body targets would be available in a stand-up fight.  The chapter on &quot;blows&quot; (only hand techniques) only addresses the mechanics of the arm, and not stuff like &quot;tuck in your chin&quot; or &quot;get your hips into it&quot;.  It's almost a start-up book for fighting, but is kind of limited in it's scope, technically speaking.  The only chapter on defense is all about shedding, which is an OK idea, but in order to roll with the punch, you have to get hit first, which isn't exactly my idea of fun.  I think of this book as being the unwritten chapter of &quot;Cheap Shots, Ambushes, and Other Lessons&quot;, and it's a great companion piece to that book.  If you are a &quot;hard&quot; stylist looking to expand your horizons, or a guy trying to get a clue about how to put a hurtin' to someone, it's an alright book on it's own, just not in my personal top ten list.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R12E6MN6569V0B	0897500520	665559790	003: Bruce Lee's Fighting Method, Vol. 3	Books	4	7	8	N	N	How to clean up sloppy punching.	This is one of the better books out there devoted to actually being able to use your body's weapons with skill.  The book starts off on body movements, stuff like footwork and distancing.  It then goes into attacking with the hands, and then attacking with the feet.  Parrying is also covered, and then targets and stances.  This book is devoted to eliminating bad habbits, and has a lot of comparisons of JKD vs. classical martial arts.  As I mentioned in my other reviews of &quot;Bruce Lee's Fighting Method&quot;, this book works much better when taken with the series, as well as a couple of other early JKD books.  However, it is useful to the average martial artist when it comes to making fighting movements more efficient, and more crisp.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R2GYIZG4QQ3NLW	1578260906	965270574	Common Sense Self-Defense: 7 Techniques That Can Save Your Life	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The best book on self-defense that I've read.	This is a book that cuts away at all the crap, and gets down to practical self-defense.  It is perfect for someone who has no previous martial arts experiance.  The first part of the book covers what precautions a person should take, in different situations, to avoid being a victim of violence.  The second part is about the more technical aspect, of using your bodys natural weapons against vital targets.  The section on training is a little short, but I don't know how many people have a heavy bag in their house to practice on anyways.  A nice feature of this book is a chart that shows what body weapons work best against what targets.  This book is specifically about unarmed confrontations, but if you're interested, the Krav Maga book is only about armed attackers, so they kind of work well togeather.  If you know nothing about self-defense, or if you're a martial artist who questions his training, I recomend buying this book.	2003-11-23
US	37586281	R1HLPHNOHASQDQ	1931229279	907852707	Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Self-Defense Techniques (Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu series)	Books	3	8	14	N	N	A little practicle, but not great.	I'll start off by saying I gave this book it's third star based on the color photos and shear amount of techniques.  Overall, I'd say less than half of the stuff in here is &quot;failsafe&quot;, or at least reliable 70% of the time.  And I REALLY don't like most of the weapons defenses.  It should come as no suprise that most of the moves that the Gracies show are based soley on grappling.  At least, as a saving grace, most of what it shows ends on the feet.  I believe one reviewer already made the point that the book's biggest disadvantage is that it's disorganization, which truly stands out.  Oh, and that Royce punches like a girl (he he).  Seriously, if you're looking for realistic self-defense, there are far better sources out there.  This book DOES give you some interesting tricks, mostly for the unarmed stuff, with a variety of defenses against the headlock, nelson, guillitine, and front &quot;throttle&quot; choke.  I found the best thing about it was the gi-less throws, color photos, pretty in-depth explainations, and the idea of using your hands in casual-looking gestures to set up a strike or lock.  It should be noted, in closing, that in a realistic, &quot;I'm about to get killed&quot; situation, the last thing you want to do is grapple with someone, and get tied up.  This means that most of these moves, being grappling based, would be best suited for a friend or associate who's being a jerk, or someone else who you're not trying to severely injure.  OK for self defense, a little applicable for sports.	2003-11-10
US	37586281	R2LQ1CQY0HCOPM	0873640020	566141561	Get Tough! How to Win in Hand-to-Hand Fighting, as Taught to the British Commandos, and the U.S. Armed Forces	Books	3	55	57	N	N	Good book for non-martial artists, too!	If you have never taken a martial-arts or self-defense course in your life, you will be able to learn from this book.  The techniques in it are simple and brutal, with many involving a knee to the groing and broken limb.  It was originally designed for soldiers during WWII, and you can tell by the illustrations.  I think it would be a good reference for military historians because of that.  Many military orgs. in the west have apparently still clung to many of Fairbairn's moves, such as the chin jab, throat chop, and scrape-stomp.  While not filled to the brim with techniques, the book does offer some little &quot;tricks&quot; that aren't found much these days, like using a matchbox or chair to defend yourself.  The book also contains a chart showing how long it takes someone to die from various stab wounds (hmm, wonder how he found that out...) and a chapter on the smatchete, which looks like a cross between a Bowie knife and a meat cleaver.  Some of the stuff in here is probably not very usefull to the average guy trying to defend himself, like securing a prisoner to a tree, but for the sake of learning what's in the rest of the book, that stuff can be overlooked.  Overall, a good book for anyone interested in defending themselves in a life-or-death situation, and an interesting historical piece.	2003-11-10
US	37586281	R2XDJNFFRUJKFS	0940871041	448477848	Analysis of Shaolin Chin Na: Instructor's Manual for All Martial Styles (Ymaa Book Series)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Comprehensive chin-na book.	I hate giving five stars to a book on just one subject, but this one deserves it.  It covers the principles of chin-na in great detail first, then goes into about every possable joint technique imaginable.  This is mostly stand-up stuff, so it isn't really geared towards MMA, though it could be useful.  Rather, this is about controling your opponent in a stand-up situation, and shows techniques applied both offensivley and defensively.  In addition, at the end of every technique, an escape or counter is shown.  Also covered are training methods for gripping/forearm power, speed in seizing, some footwork, and stretching out the ligaments.  But standing submissions aren't the only techniques shown.  Most of Dr. Yang's &quot;Leg Chin Na&quot; techniques are takedowns, and a lot of the &quot;Cavity Press&quot; stuff is strikes to pressure points.  The author also covers basic first-aid principles of injuries commonly caused by chin-na.  The only detraction I have to make was that I wish the chapter on using chin-na in a fight was more extensive.  This book was easy to follow, and someone with no experiance with grappling could learn something.  I would say it is most useful for someone interested in minimum-damage self defense, like a cop or bouncer, but it's a good reference for any martial artist.  A note on the author: Yang, Jwing-Ming is, to me, the best author when it comes to practicle Chinese martial arts.  I am a big fan of Dr. Yang's books, but until I read a better one, I will consider this his masterpiece.	2003-11-08
US	37586281	R154H93C3RUHRO	1931229082	219566626	Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu: Theory and Technique (Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very good BJJ book	This book is a must-have for BJJ students, MMA competitors, or anyone interested in expanded &amp; improving their grappling arsenal.  This book is largely broken down by what techniques are taught at certian belt levels (&quot;Blue Belt Techniques&quot;, &quot;Purple Belt Techniques&quot;), and are as basic as tying the belt and as advanced as handstand sweeps.  The writters pay very accute attention to detail, and the many close-up photos show that.  The photos are all in color, which is also a plus.  I dislike, a little, how some sequences are not shown back-to-back (blue belt headlock escapes are techniques 28 &amp; 29, then 35 &amp; 36), but some do.  There is also a pretty good theory/history of BJJ at the beggining of the book.  Overall, while not a life-altering publication, a well-written and technicaly supperior book.  I believe it would be complemented by other books by the Gracies.	2003-11-08
US	37586281	R5TXEV4BW39VW	0865681317	212153407	Jun Fan/Jeet Kune Do: The Textbook	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of the best books on stand-up fight training out there	If you're going to be involved in stand-up martial arts or fighting, get this book.  It's all you need.  The training methods in here are very, very good.  This book covers on-guard position, tools(puches, kicks, etc.), energy drills, distance, timing, the five ways of attack, parries, target training, partner training...  It's probably best for someone who has been exposed to stand-up fighting before, and has a basic knowledge of punches and kicks.  It becomes a masterpiece when taken with \\"Jun Fan/ Jeet Kune Do Kickboxing\\" (which it often referes to), the \\"Bruce Lee Fighting Method Series\\", and the \\"Tao of Jeet Kune Do\\".  Once again, it's probably not for begginers, and many drills require a partner, but that's just the nature of the beast.  Good for sport/full contact, and pretty decent for self-defense.	2003-11-08
US	37586281	R1GK6A4LW7SWYY	158160050X	449714202	Taking It to the Street : Making Your Martial Art Street Effective	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A little misleading, but good principles.	I kind of have a love-hate relationship with this book.  I'll cover the \\"hate\\" part first, since I want to end on a positive note.<BR>My main problem is that I'm not sure if the author is presenting himself accuratley.  I only bring this up because knowing where he tested his principles ought to tell you the environment it's suited for.  I can believe that he \\"bounced\\" at, for instance, a buddy's party.  I can believe that he has had punches thrown at him in anger.  I can believe that he's \\"gone at it\\" with guys in a parking lot.  I don't believe, however, that this was anything more than a guy trying to prove how tough he was.  I don't believe he ever went toe-to-toe with the Bloods, or a similar gang, as he implies.  I just don't believe that he is \\"street\\", but he presents himself as such.  Now, on to the book.  If you have a karate/tae kwon do/kickboxing type of background, this book won't be easy to read.  The author is basically presenting modified principles of Wing Chun and kali/silat.  Your side-facing, high-kicking stuff is not discused much beyond, \\"it's a bad idea\\".  In that respect, I think most martial artists will not learn how to make their stuff \\"street effective\\".  Another problem I have, and part of the reason I take issue with the author, is the fact that most of his game plan starts off, \\"when the other guy punches you...\\", which just sounds like suicide to me.  Most fights I've seen, and even the early UFC's, show that the guy who hits first, hardest, and the most times usually walks away.  You can fix this by reading Geoff Thompson's stuff.  Also, the book isn't really edited well (who am I to talk?), but it's just small things, like a missing photo or footnote.<BR>On to the \\"love\\" side of things: I like most of the principles presented.  The idea of a wedge, taking the centerline, screwing with your opponent's center of gravity, climing over him to escape... The book is worth buying, just because there is so much stuff that the author gets right.  I don't care if he learned in in a bar or in his back yard, a lot of the principles are sound.  He has great chapters on defending against kicks and making throws work.  He also references several other people's works, which can give the reader more food for thought.  He also seems to be talking directly to \\"hard\\" stylists when he's doing his explainations, which makes them a little easier to understand.  And there's a chapter about the psychology of using violence to communicate which may very well be worth the price of the book.<BR>In conclusion, I'd say this book is more oriented towards using a few \\"tricks\\" and principles to take out the guy who squares off with you from *several feet away* in a parking lot, and does not deal directly with more realistic threats.  But reading it could improve your general game plan that I had to give it four stars.  I'd just say not to make this your bible, and check around.  Pick out what works for you.	2003-11-08
US	37586281	R1E6VLKS2RXDY2	0967528313	225718509	Kung Fu San Soo's Basic 45 Lessons	Books	2	5	6	N	N	NEEDUM PICTURES!!!	Ah, fourty-five self defense moves.  Shame that there are only thirteen pictures in it!  OK, the book had some good concepts, and I'm sure that most of the self-defense lessons are servicable.  However, the lack of photos is more than disappointing.  I did like the fact that after every lesson, there was a &quot;Concepts to Learn&quot; portion.  I'd like to see that in more books like this.  In the beggining of the book, concepts, basic striking tools, and stances are covered, though not very well.  Many of the terms used in the book are not explained well, or sometimes not at all, and this makes reading difficult.  It's an OK book for a martial artist to use, mostly to incorporate into his self-defense studies, and also gives some insight into San Soo, but in that respect is by no means complete.  It's a little useful, but may not be worth the price.	2003-11-08
US	37586281	R13MNIBS28YTG5	0897500512	241566909	Bruce Lee's Fighting Method Basic Training, Vol. 2	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Get fighting fit!	This is the best book I've read on conditioning/training specifically for martial arts.  This book covers everything from cardio workouts, to training for fast kicks, to footwork and stance techniques.  This really should have been the first in it's series.  This book isn't full of history, philosophy or tradition, but gets down to the juicy stuff that a martial artist/fighter needs to master.  Among other things, this book teaches what a good fighting stance is or isn't; how to practice side kicks for power &amp; speed; the concept of a non-telegraphic guard; excersised to generate more power in you puches; and tons more.  If you are serious about getting into shape for fighting, or refining your techniques to be more efficient, this book is for you.  Good for sport/point-fighting/full contact, as well as health and self-defense (more for training kicks and punches as opposed to &quot;what to do if a guy chokes you&quot;).	2003-11-08
US	37586281	R133MCU06MZX5K	0897500881	25319072	Jujitsu: Basic Techniques of the Gentle Art (Japanese Arts, 425)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Old-school Ju-Jitsu book.	This was an alright book on the Japanese (vs. Brazilian) Ju-Jitsu system.  In the first part of the book, Mr. Kirby does his best to explain the physics behind Ju-Jitsu.  I'll admit, I'm not sure how anyone could make that subject exciting, but Mr. Kirby's explaination was kind of dull to me.  It seems to me like he explains &quot;ki&quot; as momentum, or kenetic and potential energy.  If you dig physics, you might like this part.  The good stuff is in the old-school self defense techniques.  With a heavy emphasis on throws and locks (mostly to the arm), these moves are good for your basic one-on-one encounter (lots of shots to the groin here, too).  While many throws require the use of a gi/jacket, just as many do not, and he end almost all sequenses with a lock of some kind.  While this is no where near my #1 choice for a self-defense book, it does have a lot of good stuff in it.  On the other hand, the moves themselves doesn't seem to be in any particular order.  They don't seem to biuld on one another.  The author sort of makes up for this by presenting a graph at the end of the book, showing what defenses can be used for such-and-such attack.  Another point I'm not too cool about,as far as self-defense goes, is that plenty of the moves end with the defender on the ground with the attacker, and I think some of the &quot;attacker's&quot; movements aren't particularly realistic.  This is OK for the perposes of learning to defend yourself, but is more about the techniques of the art of Ju-Jitsu.  I didn't see too much in the way of sport/NHB or philosophy, either.  Overall, with the exception of the graph, an unremarkable book.  Guys with no grappling background will find it most useful, I think, as an intro.	2003-11-02
US	37586281	R2XJWFW04C6OK9	0806504188	912056780	Jiu Jitsu Complete	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very good, for the subject mater	This is one of the better books out there for using Japanese Ju-Jitsu for self defense.  Being from the 50s, you'll read stuff about &quot;jiujutsu tricks&quot; and &quot;cheer up, begginner&quot;, so the style of writting is a little dated.  However, the book, as it is written, is well-illustrated, biulds from one move to the next, and has some of the best explainations for the throws that I have ever seen.  There's moves in here that you don't see anymore, which is good, because I've seen how they still work.  There is a small section on dealing with firearms that I'm a little skeptical  about, but the author insists he's been able to pull off the moves shown.  Another thing I like is that the throws are done without gis, and can be used against a guy wearing a t-shirt.  This book is designed to give the user a small, but effective and interchangable, arsenal for one-on-one defense.  Not too much on philosophy/art stuff here, but some sportative applications may be found.  Not really a must-have, but a very good book nonetheless.	2003-11-02
US	37586281	R2F3FMB9Y4T7MQ	0897501225	760672752	Small-Circle Jujitsu	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Very practical Ju-Jitsu book	This book is filled with technique, but most importantly, the techniques biuld on the principles presented in the beggining of the book.  The small-circle idea is one of the most universaly effective in martial arts, specifically grappling.  The book starts off with a short history of SCJJ, and included the principles behind it.  It then goes into preleminaries, basic excersises for practicing any JJ style, really, and included breakfalls, art-specific movements, and resuscitation.  The next chapter is on weak points of the body, which is an eye-opener.  Who knew the cuticle was a pressure point?  Prof. Jay then goes into the techniques themselves, and the specific self-defense situations.  The variety of moves in this book allow you to chose the level of force you use, and all the holds/throws end in a standing possition, so that one can leave the scene, if desired.  I have no real complaints about this book, although I wish the principles were explained in more detail, and most judo books can better explain the throws.  Also, all the work is done in gis, so most of the throws, as presented, require a jacket, as do most chokes.  This book appears written specifically with self-defence in mind, and in that it succeeds, but those involved in sporting events that use submissions will find it useful as well.  Buy it for the principles and holds.	2003-11-02
US	37586281	R3KZLRUTNB0KDV	0736003509	132833426	Mastering Kempo (Mastering Martial Arts Series)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Decent book, generally good.	I'd actually like to give the book ***1/2, but I figure since they only allow whole numbers, I'll round down.  Much can be learned from this book, of you are a begginer, or practice another Asian fighting form.  Particularly, I like the explaination of Embu, and the principles behind Kempo's fluid striking combos.  One thing that caught my eye is how the author always tried to link Chinese, Okinawan, and Japanese martial history, ephasising Okinawan.  I'm no historian, and though I doubt the links were as close as presented, it did pique my interest in seeing how accurate the history was, and has therefore opened my eyes to Karate/Kung-Fu/Kempo history.  Some basic striking techniques are presented, but the bulk of the book is not &quot;how to do a front punch&quot;, it is &quot;do this to make any strike more effective&quot;.  I dislike, however, that the author seems to call every Asian art Kempo, including Jeet Kune Do.  Overall, the book is good to read, but mostly for the &quot;art/philosophy/history&quot; types.  Folks interested in sport or protection would do better to look elsewhere.	2003-11-02
US	37586281	RLFR0LEU7T873	1884654177	276780725	No Holds Barred Fighting: The Ultimate Guide to Submission Wrestling (No Holds Barred Fighting series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great book on submission wrestling	Mark Hatmaker has left a good impression on me with his (I think)first book.  Though not realy NHB, as strikes aren't covered, this book had info on takedowns, possitions, reversals, escapes, submissions, drills... Although the book didn't have 'every single move in the world', what was presented would help anyone improve their game.  It is as complete as a book of it's size can be on the subject it covers.  It is well-written, logically presented, and has me eagerly anticipating the second book.  If you are interrested in submission grappling at all, get this book; you will not be disappointed.	2003-10-20
US	37586281	R1HFDBEI8ZIBY6	0873648927	653623782	Indonesian Fighting Fundamentals: The Brutal Arts Of The Archipelago	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The principles are essential	The title is a little decieving.  This book doesn't really profile silat or kuntao.  Rather, it is one of the best books on concepts that I've ever read.  I'd place it up there with &quot;Tao of Jeet Kune Do&quot;.  The concepts of gyroscopic rotation, shearing, adhesion, etc. can be applied to any art, given a little imagination.  While the reader will learn something on the history of Indonesian martial arts, it is really the underlying principle that recieve the most attention.  One won't really learn HOW to do silat or kuntao, but will gain an understanding of WHY the practitioners of such arts do the things they do.  There is nothing on weapons, which I thought was strange, and nothing on Kali, which I thought was Indonesian, but that doesn't take away from the fact that this is one of the best books on martial arts principles out there.  No matter whether one is looking for asthetics, self-defence, understanding the &quot;arts&quot;, or sporting aspects of martial arts, there is something in this book for everyone.  I'd recomend it to anyone serious about the martial arts, but those with a more casual attitude towards the arts may not find anything useful here.  If I could only have five martial arts books, this would be one of them.	2003-10-20
US	37586281	R126DOLCL4GRMX	0971413312	797974430	Submission Fighting Techniques	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very good for what it presents	This book is specificaly on no-gi submission moves.  In that area, it is one of the better books out there, and a &quot;must have&quot; for anyone involved in submission grappling.  The photos are pretty clear, and numbered in sequense so the reader can better understand what he's looking at.  The author describes the moves from the possitions they are performed from (i.e., &quot;Submissions from the Guard&quot;).  The moves shown have less variety than LeBell's &quot;Grappling Encyclopedia&quot;, but as such is less overwhelming.  Only problem, like LeBell's book, is that the reader isn't shown how to get into these possitions.  And I'd prefere to see some reversals.  Still, overall, an excellent book, and I'd recomend it to anyone who wants to learn non-gi submission holds.	2003-10-20
US	37586281	R2GOJ477QZOEUQ	0897500504	665559790	001: Bruce Lee's Fighting Method, Vol. 1	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Simple, relativly practicle	Overall, this was a good book.  The defences shown are very simple, and seem to embody a &quot;just hit him&quot; way of thinking.  There are some escape techniques included, which make this book compatable in philosophy to the Krav Maga tape series.  There are deficiencies, of course.  There are no lessons on where to hit, or how to hit, and no chapters on awareness.  Other books in this series basically cover the first two, and taken with them, this book is worth about ****.  This book is best for someone with elementry knowledge of martial arts techniques, who wants to use those techniques for street defence.  I think it CAN be useful to any schmoe who picks it up, but is better suited to someone who already knows how to throw a side kick.  In conclusion, this book's strongest point is it's simplicity, while it's greatest weekness is the lack of awareness training.	2003-10-19
US	37586281	R38YRGLRASQN3R	0865680620	642586235	Choy Li Fut Kung Fu: The Dynamic Fighting Art Descended From the Monks of the Shaolin Temple	Books	1	10	11	N	N	Lots of photos, little substance	This is one of the few books I've been able to find on CLF, and found it incredably lacking.  If it weren't for two forms presented inside the book, it would be little more than a pamphlet.  The reader gets an introduction into Choy Li Fut, but not enough to really learn anything.  Liniage is presented, weapons used are named, and you get to see a couple of poorly-shot photos of finnished techniques.  I don't really recomend that anyone get this book, unless you want to learn CLF's first two forms and have no teacher.	2003-10-19
US	37586281	R12FLTGANUBGXO	0967654319	915070791	Gene LeBell's Grappling World, The Encyclopedia of Finishing Holds (2nd Expanded Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very good book	I give this book four stars because it opens up one's world to whole new possabilities of submission holds.  The holds are classified by what part of the body they work, and the possition of the limb (ex.- &quot;Bent arm locks&quot;).  The sheer scope of information makes this book an invaluable one to anyone involved in MMA and submission wrestling.  As a bonus, the book also has a section on grappling with a club, which may be useful to stickfighting practitioners who are trying to expand thier techniques.  The books strongest points are it's clear photos, even clearer instructions, and the vast variations of a single hold that were shown.  The downside was that there wasn't too much about maneuvering, possitioning, or takedowns, but that's not really what the book was about, anyway.  I liked the authors sense of humor, but in my opinion, it was a little distracting.  Maybe other readers will appreciate it more.  But for it's subject matter (submission holds), if I had to chose one book, this would be it.  When I started grappling, I knew nothing about sweeps, takedowns, controling, or positions, but thanks to my reading LeBell's earlier works, I was able to tap out experienced BJJ guys and amature wrestlers alike with ease.  It's because LeBell gives the reader holds that he can use from any position he may find himself in.  GET THIS BOOK!!!!!	2003-10-12
US	37586281	R3ZM7CZI5DBEK	1893626342	815973307	Kill-as-Catch-Can	Books	2	17	19	N	N	OK, but incomplete	I initially bought this because 1) I liked &quot;Championship Streetfighting&quot;, also by the author, and 2) I do a lot of submission grappling, and want to learn anything useful.  I was dissapointed by much of what I read.  The good:I learned a little about the history of wrestling that I didn't know; I found the principles in the begging to be most useful; the author does a decent job of converting amature moves to a street scenario; this is one of the few books I've read that talks about biting and gouging, though I think Beaumont's kind of reaching to include them in this book; and lastly, the bibliography helps the reader find more, practical information about grappling in the &quot;pavement arena&quot;.  The bad: most noticably, there are rather crudely drawn pencil illustrations, and no photos; the takedowns, as presented, are not &quot;technically sound&quot;, and I think it's because of a lack of experiance on Beaumont's part; some of the holds are taken direclty from professional wrestling's &quot;show holds&quot;, like the Cammel Clutch and Figure-four leglock (I've wrestled a lot of guys, and I've even tried to make use of pro-wrestling holds, but I've never seen anyone put that leglock on someone with half a brain and better conditioning than a hampster).  About half the info was useful to me, and I'll give props to the author for sticking to the theme of Western arts as self defence, but if you grapple for fun or sport, borrow it, and if you're looking for quick and easy self-defence, avoid it.  In closing, I'd like to emphasise that this is NOT a useless book, it's just that finding the useful stuff is one of those needle-haystack things.	2003-10-12
