US	37628361	RQHWFY6NSJ7M2	0517123207	796780795	The Origin of Species	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A very important and elucidating work	Darwin's Origin of Species is the first book I've read on evolution and being someone that appreciates the scientific manner of explaining observed phenomena with consistent theories, I tried to pay attention to the merits of Darwin's argument. I believed Darwin's theory was generally right(or at least on the right track) before reading this book and after reading it, I'm only more convinced.  <br /> <br />     Although I knew the general ideas put forth by Darwin, I'm now more educated as to the manner in which Darwin came to his conclusions. It was interesting the way in which he considered, for example, how two similar species of mammals or plants could be found on two different continents very far from each other. I particularly liked his consideration of our knowledge of geological history and its relationship to his theory. I also enjoyed learning about the difficulties in distinguishing varieties and species and why it is this distinction may be somewhat arbitrary.  <br /> <br />     One of the things I like about this book was the fact that Darwin addressed the various counterarguments against his theory and usually provided compelling discussions as to why his theory provided better explanation as to the observed nature of things than the idea of Creationism, which he mentions a few times throughout the book. He was meticulous enough to give much thought to potential weaknesses in his theory and yet offer explanation to how these supposed weaknesses may not be as formidable as they initally appear.  <br /> <br />     I found that Darwin's work was rather thought-provoking as I found myself thinking more of mankind's development and the potential uses and development of our own organs and how they may have given us an advantage over other species.  <br /> <br />     Darwin was sometimes a little long-winded in his discussion, but considering the importance of the subject matter, I appreciated his thoughtful and thorough exposition.  <br /> <br />     I'm no expert in evolutionary theories or how Darwin's theory is regarded by experts today. And I don't necessarily think he got everything completely right, but I found his argument generally pretty convincing and think he was closer to being right than wrong. The origin of species, particularly ourselves, is a very important subject and I believe someone would be doing themselves a service to read such an important work.	2005-06-27
US	37628361	REFENARXNSWXN	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great human tale, thought-provoking and full of emotion	I first read Les Miserables 5 years ago in 10th grade English. That was the abridged version, of course. Remembering that I liked it a fairly good amount, I just recently read the full version. I'm glad I did.<br /><br />  Hugo tells a wonderful story of Jean Valjean and his quest to be as good a man as possible while taking care of the young Cosette. Valjean is a truly inspiring character and one of my favorite literary characters. Hugo does a great job of creating a wonderful cast of characters, each which represents various aspects of humanity. They all have meaning and purpose, representing certain features of society. This is particulary true of Police Inspector Javert, who is a very interesting character in his relentless and unwavering execution of enforcing the law.<br /><br />  The plot is pretty interesting, basically telling of Valjean rise from the depths of humanity as a convict to near saint-like status as a humble and honorable free man. The emotional character of Valjean is very interesting as he often finds great conflict not only with society, but within himself. One thing I liked was Hugo's interweaving the characters lives, with people and events that may at first seem of minor importance popping later in the tale and greatly effecting the tale's progression. It's interesting how events and characters all work and fit together.<br /><br />  The only problem I really had was this book was the sometimes very long tangents Hugo sometimes went on about abstract ideas and descriptions that although were not completely unrelated to the story, went a little too far. A little more moderation would have been nice as when reading these parts it kind of felt like something you had to wade through, wondering when you'd get back to the main story. But, at least Hugo's writing is often very poetic and is pleasant to read.<br /><br />  If you're wondering if you can find much excitement in a book set in 19th century France, you can. This was a very compelling story and had some interesting tense scenes, particulary one in which Valjean is captured by a band of thieves. It was pleasant to read a tale with so much description of the time and locations. It really adds to the richness of the story.<br /><br />  Overall, this is a great book and I'm glad I read it. I give it about 4.7 stars and not a full 5 only because of the long tedious portions. If you're interested in a great human story, pick this book up and enjoy.	2005-06-10
US	37628361	R2N5B0ZTFCG70P	0451457994	379678595	2001: a Space Odyssey	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wonderful science fiction story	The novel begins with the placement of a mysterious black monolith on Earth millions of years ago, which, although seemingly dormant, is secretly at working, probing and provoking the human species. Then in 2001, a similar black monolith is discovered on the moon. It emits an eerie signal out into the solar system. Dave Bowman and Frank Poole are dispatched aboard the Discovery, along with some deep-sleeping crewmates, to investigate. Thus, a great adventure begins. <br /> <br />     This is a wonderfully told story about exploring the vast and beautiful solar system and ultimately exploring our origins. Clarke does a fine job indicating the beauty and wonder of the cosmos. As Discovery travels farther than any man-made vehicle has before, we see the same magnificent wonders as Bowman and Poole, such as the wonderful moons of Jupiter or the rings of Saturn.  <br /> <br />     Although there isn't a vast amount of character development in terms of Bowman and Poole, this doesn't really detract from the story as one might fear. We do get a sense of their lonely and isolated lives on the ship Discovery and we see the characters bouts of joy, sadness, boredom and anxiety as they make their bold journey. Of course, a major character is HAL 9000, the computer which never sleeps and has control over the happenings of Discovery. In his own way, he ends up being the most interesting character as his actions have a serious effect on the course of the novel.  <br /> <br />     The novel moves along at a nice pace and is easy to read. Although giving some indication of the science and technology of the voyage, it doesn't get bogged down in technical details. Yet, it addresses the beauty of the cosmos and as one reads the story, it's easy to feel the awe-inspiring nature of the heavens.  <br /> <br />     The novel has a rather nice ending which leaves plenty of room for speculation and wonder. It's really quite thought-provoking, addressing a question man has asked for ages\\"Why are we here for and what's the meaning of life?\\" The reader is left with a sense of the vast magnitude of the universe and the questions its beauty brings about. <br /> <br />    If you have any interest in this at all, I'd say it's worth reading. If you're like me, you have an appreciation for the beauty and wonder of the universe and our place in it and this novel really addresses that. This is a great story.	2005-05-30
US	37628361	R3E0KT761HHZ06	0385509863	53950277	Parallel Worlds: A journey through creation, higher dimensions, and the future of the cosmos	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The wonders of the universe!	This is a very enlightening and enjoyable book. Kaku discusses the universe from the smallest atoms to the vastness of the universe. The novel is really quite straight-forward, discussing the most recent developments in cosmology, particle physics and string theory. Kaku discusses the beautiful nature of the universe in terms of the possibility of 10 dimensions, a sea of multiple universes, the possibility of time travel and so on. Although not as poetic as some other books I've read, it's full of information and discussion of the universe, with some interesting discussion of the potential role of a higher being in the universe. I also like the discussion of the potential end of the universe and how advanced beings might survive by finding a path to a parallel universe.  <br /> <br />     Parallel Worlds gives a wonderful introduction to all of these strange, yet very real developments in science, which almost sound like science-fiction at times. The possibility of parallel worlds interests me greatly and I love learning about the beautiful universe we live in, so I enjoyed reading Kaku's book, which was quite informative.	2005-05-30
US	37628361	RPJ153ILQAWSE	0684839741	635285578	Good As Gold	Books	3	10	11	N	N	A novel that boggles the mind!	Bruce Gold, an apathetic professor, is offered the chance for success, fame and fortune in Washinton D.C. But, he must first reshape his life, which may mean cutting out his wacky family. Furthermore, he's faced with the task of writing about the Jewish experience in America, but isn't sure he's lived it and thus has to figure out what it is. So, starts Good as Gold. <br /> <br />     The novel starts somewhat slowly, with sometimes tiring descriptions of Gold's get-togethers with his strange family. These are somewhat boring in the early part of the book, but do become more entertaining as the book goes on once they begin to become funny. The memembers of his family are strange, particularly his father, mother-in-law and brother. They bring the most entertainment to the family scenes as Gold faces the frustration of dealing with his father's incorrigibility, his mother-in-law's hostility towards him and his brother's prodding and teasing.  <br /> <br />     The story certainly has laugh-out-loud moments, particularly the scenes in which Gold is conversing with his friend in Washingtong Ralph, who is very vague in what he does and has a contradictory way of speaking. Moreover, is the strange Andrea Conover, a beautiful women in love who with Gold, yet wants to continue her relationships with other men and doesn't see why that would bother Gold. The sexual escapades of Gold are quite entertaining as he seems to have no trouble attracting beautiful women with strange behavior. <br /> <br />     The problem with this book is that although it certainly has many funny moments, it doesn't exactly seem to go anywhere. The reader is exposed to quite a few scenes with Gold's family, but maybe a little bit too much. It would have been nice to see more events unfold in Washington D.C., as scenes dealing with politicians are probably the funniest. The story doesn't have much in the way of plot development, but rather numerous funny  moments with family, politicians and women. Moreover, the worst parts of the book were the sections dealing with Henry Kissinger. Gold despises him and sometimes whole pages are boringly dedicated to discussion of Kissinger. It bogs down the book.  <br /> <br />     I've read Catch-22 by Heller and this certainly isn't as funny, but it does have its own hilarity and ridiculous moments worth of quite a few laughs. It isn't great, but I think it's worth reading if you're really interested. I actually give it a little above 3 stars, but not enough to warrant 4.	2005-05-24
US	37628361	RRH5GP2X4YX8J	0553286587	487765721	Rama II: The Sequel to Rendezvous with Rama	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A greater glimpse into the workings of Rama	After about 70 years, that amazing piece of engineering and technology called Rama returns. Hoping to discover more secrets of this mysterious space craft, a team of the brightest minds is dispatched to investigate. Although a seemingly simple and safe mission at first, things begin to go awry as crew members question not only Rama's marvels and potential dangers, but even each others' true agendas.  <br /> <br />     The beginning of the story is slightly bogged down by the description of the events which the crew members go through before their departure and at some points their is a slight bit too much focus on their personal lives. But, this does help to develop the primary characters as individuals and give insight into each of their motivations. There are a few primary characters, but the story is told mainly from the eyes of the intelligent and admirable Dr. Nicole des Jardins. The reader follows her adventure through Rama and struggle to determine what it all means. <br />      <br />     This sequel certainly gives more insight into the workings of Rama. Rama is a character of its own, ever present in the unfoldings of the story. It is unclear whether this is the same craft which passed by Earth before or a second one. It seems to be the same one at first look, but new discoveries may indicate otherwise. Furthermore, more intelligent life forms are spotted and Rama undergoes a major change in its trajectory which could have grave implications for Earth. <br /> <br />     The story also manages to incorporate some provoking thoughts on the potential religious ramifications of Ramans. Are they some sign from God? What might they indicate for humanity? These questions and others reverberate in the religious mind of one General O'Toole, who faces a personal crisis when orders from Earth conflict with religious believes. His decisions could make a big difference in human history. <br /> <br />     Overall, the story is pretty entertaining. It's been a few years since I read Rendevous with Rama, but I don't remember it being this engaging. The reader gains more insight Rama's inner-workings. But the story also contains intriguing developments amongst the characters and follows them along with their personal struggles. The last few chapters are quite interesting and leave plenty of room for speculation on what Rama signifies. Not all is resolved and the reader is left wanting to reading the next installment in this series.  <br />      <br />     I found this book to be better than Rendevous with Rama and I actually give it 3.5 stars.	2005-05-15
US	37628361	R2I4QX6KG8X3S1	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	3	4	5	N	N	An evolutionary threat or a bold leap forward?	Greg Bear's Darwin's Radio was an intriguing look at humanity's grappling with a virus which apparently causes women to have an abortion, but a month after this abortion takes place, the women find they're pregnant again, often without even having had sex. In response to this, riots break out all over the world as people fear these strange occurences and a possible end to modern society as we know it. In the midst of all this is Dr. Kaye Lang, a molecular biologist who has some interesting theories on this supposed virus and its real purpose, and Mitch Rafelson, a palentologist who's discovered the remains of a man, woman and baby from thousands of years ago who may have been experiencing a similar evolutionary process. <br />     The book does a very good job of giving the main characters proper attention. Each character is well defined and their complexities are explored. But, I have to say that the book may have went a little too far in this pursuit. I often found that I wanted more discussion of the attempts at studying and dealing with the virus, but instead much of the book focused on the personal lives of Kaye and Mitch. Although I must admit that the developments between them weren't completely immaterial, the description of the book on the back cover is rather misleading. I would hardly say that Kaye Lang and Christopher Dicken race to solve an evolutionary puzzle. <br />     Despite the fact that the novel headed in a rather different direction than I had anticipated, it was fairly entertaining. The premise was really rather interesting and I liked the questions which were raised by the unfolding events. This novel really had much to do with human nature and questions concerning our own origins. Plus, I hadn't ever read a science fiction novel dealing with evolution so it was a nice change. Overall, I would say read this book if you're really interested. It may not be exactly what you expect, but that doesn't mean you won't like it.	2004-07-17
US	37628361	R1TSJLW6D1V87T	069108808X	152059522	The Story of Mathematics	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Informative, but not terribly interesting	I read this book because math is one of my favorite subjects and it seemed to be full of inforamtion. And it was full of information which stretched from discussing math in Pythagoras's times all the way up to modern chaos theory, but as I read it I just didn't find that it captured my attention as I had hoped. As I read through this novel I felt that only a small portion of what I was reading was really going to stay with me. I often felt my mind wandering as I just didn't find myself completely interested and sometimes I had to remind myself to pay attention.  I would have liked a little bit more discussion on the importance and applications of the mathematics that was being developed. There wasn't as much depth as I yearned for, but perhaps this can be forgiven to some extent considering how much the author was attempting to discuss.<br />     Despite all of the aforementioned, I'm still giving this book 3 stars(although I'd prefer to give it 2.5 if I could). It was a very easy read and certainly didn't get particularly complicated. Plus, there were some pretty nice illustrations. Overall, I'd say that although I don't regret having read the book, I probably wouldn't read it again.	2004-07-13
US	37628361	R250RPSMFNL9ON	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Slow start, but riveting ending	I just recently finished Clancy's The Bear and the Dragon and I have mixed feelings about it. Let me describe the story a little and then give my opinion.<br />     The Chinese economy is in serious trouble, and the Chinese Politburo members are not making things any better when they are unreasonable in trade negotiations with the US. President Ryan is fed up with their stubborn disregard for fair trade practices. China further makes things worse in their attempt to kill a high ranking Soviet official, not to mention the killing of two unarmed clergy members who attempt to prevent the abortion of a child in a Chinese hospital. Growing discontent from the rest of the world towards the Chinese causes those in the Chinese Politburo to attack Russia, where enormous gold and oil finds have just taken place. In this maneuver, China hopes to better strengthen it's position as a world power and more dominant political force. President Ryan and US armed forces come to Russia's aid and a riveting war takes place. <br />     What I didn't like about this book was that it takes so long to really get the real plot of the novel, which is the war between China and Russia. Clancy spends about half the book building up to this climax with the developments of the subplots concerning the assassination attempt and murder of clergy. These elements are entertaining and important to the story, but it seems like much less time could be devoted to their unfolding. As always, Clancy provides a lot of background detail which considerably adds to this book's bulk. It isn't until you've read over 600 pages that you really get to the war. <br />     What was good about the book is that once you do get to the war which occurs, the action is pretty much non-stop and very entertaing. As usual, Clancy displays his wealth of information on military tactics and processes which are a staple of his work. He also brings a wide variety of characters that have been in many of his books, such as Ed and MaryPat Foley, Robby Jackson and John Clark and Domingo Chavez. Clancy does a fine job of making the political aspects of this story just as entertaining and pertinent as the military aspects, which I really enjoy. But, as I said, the book is too long and if were to be split into two halves, I'd probably give the first half 2 stars, but the second half 4 stars or maybe even 5. <br />     If you're a big Clancy fan I would recommend this book since it was overall a satisfying book and does have a rather good plot once you really get down to it. But, if you're somone that is just trying Clancy out for the first time, don't read this book. Read The Hunt for Red October or The Cardinal of the Kremlin or any of his other books pretty much. This book is too demanding time-wise if you're just trying Clancy out for the first or second time. It might turn you off to someone who really is a good writer.	2004-07-09
US	37628361	R2T6GAVVULY6FP	0385190921	548376022	Robots and Empire	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Another wonderful Asimov Story	Robot and Empire is another entertaining story from the prolific writer Isaac Asimov. Set many decades after Robots of Dawn, when the Earth detective Elijah Bailey has long ago passed, Robots and Empire tells the story of Dr. Kelden Amadiro's nefarious attempt at destroying Earth and the Settlers. The Auroran Gladia, along with the robots Daneel and Giskard, must go to great lengths to protect Earth and countless lives.<br />     What I really enjoyed about this book was the interaction between the robots Daneel and Giskard. As both characters work at deducing and anticipating Amadiro's motives and actions, it's really interesting to watch the relationship between these two as they provide much needed counsel and assistance to one another. It's very entertaining to follow along as the fly all over the galaxy in an attempt thwart Amadiro's plans. It's even more interesting to see them attempt to circumnavigate the famous 3 Laws of Robotics which they often find hinder, rather than help, their attempts at protecting Earth. I don't think I'm revealing too much to say that Daneel even goes so far as to introduce the Zeroth Law of robotics which is basically the need to protect all of humanity. This plays an integral part in the unfolding of the book.<br />     I was pleased that the whole book moves at a speedy pace(I took less than two days to read this), with nothing seeming trivial or overly drawn out.This book is very entertaining and as it's only the fourth work I've read by Asimov, I'm moved to read more of his books. Perhaps the only real complaint about this book is that the ending is slightly anticlimatic, but rather touching and fitting. If you like Asimov's work, particularly his robot books concerning Elijah Bailey, I think you'll really enjoy this book.	2004-07-01
US	37628361	R36UTPX1JRJZJY	0451526996	551860371	Moby Dick: Or, The Whale (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A gripping classic on the high seas	Opening with the famous line \\"Call me Ishmael\\", so begins this classic tale of one man's obsession with a noble, beautiful, yet highly intimidating beast of the seas, the white sperm whale Moby Dick. Set in the 1850's, this story tells of Captain Ahab and his passionate quest to get his revenge on the whale which severed his leg on a past sea-voyage. The story is told by Ishmael, who along with his newly-found friend Queequeg, embark on this most fateful journey.  <br />     This book really expresses the heart and soul of men who spend many years of their lives away from their loved families and friends to pursue and kill the proud sperm whales of the deep blue. When reading Melville's description of life at sea, you really get a feeling of a sad dignity to the whaleman's life as he travels the globe. This novel isn't so much about a whale, but about one man's intense sorrow and desire for vengence and the lengths to which he'll go to acheive his victory over a foe which seems almost to exist solely to torment him. It's a book rich with commentary on the depths of one's soul.<br />     Although this story is told by Ishmael, much of it is written more by an omniscient narrator. Certainly, there are many scenes which are described in detailed which Ishmael's character certainly couldn't have been present for. In fact, Ishmael himself hardly seems to play much of a role in the events within the novel. But, he does spend many chapters describing the sperm whale, such as it's dimensions, eating and travelling patterns, the various goods its body produces, etc. He speaks of this so much at certain points it's almost a little too much. But, he gives wonderful details which suggest Melville really did some in-depth research for this novel. <br />     I can certainly see why this is a classic. It's so very well-written and reading it made me wish so much I had this type of literary talent. The descriptive language is very beautiful. The characters all seem so real, particularly Captain Ahab, who's seems to be burdened with a good nature, but heavy heart. Although the novel may seem a little slow or long at some points and the lengthy description of the Sperm Whale can become tedious, it's well worth wading through these low points to enjoy this wonderful tale. I think this is really a great book and certainly worth reading.	2004-06-29
US	37628361	R3OAYXX63S3RY5	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An amazing look at the beautiful wonders of our universe	In The Universe in a Nutshell, the amazing scientist Stephen Hawking takes the reader on a journey of all the various theories concerning the nature of our vast universe. These theories are so fantastical that they really stretch the limits of your imagination, yet they are grounded in real research by some of the best minds in the world. <br />     Hawking addresses topics such as the quest among much of the physics community to unite Einstein's theory of relativity with quantum mechanics, which would describe the universe on scales of lightyears all the way down to the atomic level. He introduces amazing concepts such as imaginary time and the possibility of our universe consisting of up to 10 or 11 dimensions. He even addresses the possibility of time travel and alien life. <br />     The book has wonderful illustrations which help one to grasp the profound concepts with which Hawking deals. Also, the book is written in such a manner that each chapter can basically stand on its own. If you liked A Brief History of Time, I'm sure you'll like this. <br />     This is a really great book and if you have any interest in getting a glimpse into the most incredible, yet compelling theories of the universe this book would certainly be for you.	2004-06-23
US	37628361	R3ERZGZF5X3QI	0767908163	931225579	The Golden Ratio: The Story of PHI, the World's Most Astonishing Number	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great guide to an amazing number	Livio's book is really an interesting look at a number similar to pi in that's an irrational number which displays itself in various places in nature, from the arrangement of petals on a flower to the logarithmic spirals of galaxies. <br />     Livio explains the original formulation of this number by Euclid and proceeds to address the various times in history in which it may have been employed by architects, artists and musicians. <br />     I think this is a really good book if you're interested in reading about the most &quot;irrational of all irrational numbers&quot;.	2004-06-21
US	37628361	R2KBCF3Y5KOADQ	0425181200	341151059	Dale Brown's Dreamland	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not great, but pretty good	This is the first book I've read by Brown and overall it was pretty good. The book has an interesting cast of characters, each with their own personality and although they're backgrounds are often somewhat mysterious, their is a definite uniqueness to each. <br />     The problem I had with this book is that I sometimes found it difficult to follow what was happening and how various events were related. But, their were fairly detailed descriptions of the various aerial scenarios which are often riveting. <br />     I'm a pretty big Tom Clancy fan and for those of you who've read his work I'll tell you that Brown's writing, unlike Clancy's, focuses much more on the military side to stories and only a little on the political implications. And this story seemed a little less intricate than Clancy's work.<br />     I think the book is pretty good and the stories concerning this top-secret government installation have a lot of room for potential. Dale Brown is no Tom Clancy, but he's talented and has written a novel worth reading if you're really interested.	2004-06-16
US	37628361	R2F906CQC3SV2M	0425191184	17508097	Red Rabbit (Tom Clancy)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	An interesting look at the early days of Jack Ryan	Tom Clancy's Red Rabbit is an early look at the career of Jack Ryan. It's the early 1980's and Ryan's on loan to British Intelligence in London when he becomes aware of a KGB plot to murder the pope. Red Rabbit is the KGB clerk who wishes to defect to the US in order to prevent this assassination.<br />     Overall the book is pretty good. It contains major characters that Clancy fans are used to such as the Admiral Greer, Bob Ritter and the Foley's, who are operating out of Moscow. This novel is really much more of a political thriller as opposed to a military one. There isn't a shot fired until the 2nd to last chapter. <br />     The novel first focuses on the KGB's plans to kill the Pope and then shifts to a focus on the attempts at removing the KGB defector from Moscow. Although the book probably is a little longer than need be and can sometimes seem repetitive, it's got a pretty interesting story. Although it isn't one of Clancy's better novel, I'd certainly say it's worth reading if you're interested.	2004-05-30
US	37628361	R3DSX5EHHVWIXR	0140367470	839463326	The Three Musketeers (Puffin Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A very good classic	The Three Musketeers is really a pretty good book and worth reading. The musketeers are Athos, Porthos and Aramis, but there is also another character which is almost more the focus of the novel. This is D'artagnan, a young man who first comes to blows with each of the Musketeers, but then becomes good friends with each of them.<br />     I'd say the first half of this novel seems a little less focused than the first. I don't know if it was just me, but I found I kept getting confused about what exactly what was happening and how various events were related. The second half seems much more clear and is certainly very entertaining.<br />     Dumas gives each of the characters a distinct personality and although the musketeers often seem mysterious, there's still a sense of understanding their motivation and concerns. Each is a brave gentleman in service of their country, enjoying their adventures and journeys.<br />     I'd say this is really a good book and definitely worth reading if you're interested.	2004-05-30
US	37628361	R7YXJIMOVCVSN	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Overall, a pretty interesting story	I read Lehane's A Drink Before the War at the recommendation of a friend who enjoyed this novel and the following in this series, Darkness, Take My Hand. Generally, I don't read stories of this genre, but with my friend's encouragement I did and I'm glad I did.<br />The novel's main characters are Patrick McKenzie and Angela Gennaro, two witty private investigators who're based out of a church in the Boston area. They're given the seemingly simple assigment by some politicians of finding a cleaning women whom allegedly stole some important documents, but find the truth is more complex and dangerous.<br />What I liked about this novel is the fact that the author really takes the time to develop the main characters and give them depth. Each one has their own demons. Kenzie deals with the memory of a horribly abusive father and Gennaro deals with a physically abusive husband. Also, there's a clear attraction between the characters which adds to the story.<br />The author also adds depth to the story by taking the time to address issues of social and racial inequality, particularly the latter. It's clear certain characters in the novel are racist and even Kenzie must admit a certain amount of racism within himself, despite his abhorrence to this manner of thinking. Lehane adds to this story with his focus on this aspect and other types of moral ambiguity, making the story seem more realistic and there isn't a complete black and white and even the good guys can have horrible sides to their characters.<br />I wouldn't say this particular novel is groundbreaking, but it is overall a good read and stays away from old cliches. It's about 300 pages long and is an easy read. I'd say it's worth picking up if you have even a slight interest.	2003-08-13
US	37628361	R1QO4OP2RJIBK9	0679732268	161451712	Light in August	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A very interestingly written story	William Faulkner's Light in August is a very wonderful story about various characters, each with real depth and character. The story is set in the South, in the early 1900's I believe. The main character is Joe Christmas, a very complex character who seems to have trouble fitting in, perhaps on account of his being of mixed race. But, there are other interesting, well-developed characters such as Reverend Hightower, Lena Grove, Joe Brown and Byron Bunch.<br />It's kind of hard to describe exactly what the plot of the novel is. But basically, it intertwines the tales of the aforementioned characters in Jefferson, Tennessee. A large portion of the novel concerns Joe Christmas' pursuit by the law after his suspected murder of a middle-aged woman.<br />The writing style in this novel is very interesting. It tends to delve into the mind of each of its characters, giving the reader a sense of the motivations behind their actions. As I said, the novel intertwines story and so it tends to jump back and forth in time shedding light on events and people in a very interesting manner. Faulkner does this very well, without doing it so much it becomes confusing.<br />I had originally read this novel 3 years ago as a junior in high school and for some reason I can't really explain, I just kind of felt I should read it again. So, I did and I'm glad I did because Light in August is a great novel. I haven't read anything else by Faulkner, so I can't compare it to any of his other works, but this novel is a pretty good read.	2003-06-29
US	37628361	ROV33EES9A31R	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A pretty good book	I read Lord of the Flies knowing it's a classic and for the most part I thought it was pretty good. It details the story of young boys stranded on an island after a plane crash. At first, the primary character of the novel, Ralph, heads the dictatorship that begins, but as time passes, Ralph comes to blow with Jack. Where Ralph sees the boys' primary concern being signaling a passing ship for help, Jack is concerned with hunting. So, two groups emerge with Ralph and Jack as the leaders. After that, some very dramatic and interesting happenings take place as the reader sees savagery and visciousness develop amongst the boys.<br />The only real problem I had with the story was the lack of explanation about the boys. The novel starts after the plane crash has taken place and the author never offers an explanation for who these boys are or where they were going. Also, I found it somewhat unrealistic the way in which the boys seemed to get along so well on their own. They didn't seem nearly as frightened as I'd imagine boys would be in their place in reality.<br />Overall, I say this book is worth reading if you're interested. It's not too long and has a pretty good story.	2003-06-29
US	37628361	RBVLZ83RNAMVV	0786889942	239566302	What Women Want Men to Know	Books	4	9	14	N	N	An enlightening book	I'm actually perhaps a strange person to be writing a review for this book. I'm only an 18 year old male and have never been in a serious romantic relationship. But, that's why I read this book. I picked it up hoping to get some tips for my future relationships. Obviously, it's hard for me to judge this book well as I haven't experienced the majority of what De Angelis is talking about, but after reading the book, I feel like I understand what women want better.<br />The book addresses many issues concerning being a better lover both outside and inside the bedroom. I would say this book is perhaps slightly more directed towards women, but I think this book could be very helpful to men who want to have better relationships with the women in their lives. De Angelis offers very specific ways guys can improve their romantic relationships. I really liked the way in which De Angelis attempts to help men without putting them down. She does that well. I'm sure there are many guys who might feel too much pride or reluctance to read this book, but I think if you really approach it with an open mind and try to see things from a woman's point of view, you really can understand women better. I'm sure the thought of understanding women better appeals to many guys. <br />So, pick up this book if you want to work on your relationships. It's informative and easy to read.	2003-06-29
US	37628361	RFJGZOWUS5G3C	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A simple, yet great story	Harper Lee's To Kill A Mockingbird is a great story detailing important childhood events from the point of view of Jean Louise Finch(aka Scout). Jean is a little girl who lives with her older brother of 5 years, Jeremy Finch(aka Jem) and her father Atticus Finch in a little town in Maycomb county. The novel's main theme is basically the lessons one learns growing up. This theme is centered a lot around the trial of a black man, Tom Robinson, of supposedly raping a white woman. Atticus is the lawyer given the job of defending Robinson and with this heated trial occurring, Scout and Jem have to deal with a lot of oppossition and derision from many of their prejudiced neighbors. But, this story has so much more dealing with just the general complexities of growing up. <br />I think my favorite thing about the novel was the characters. The Finch family comes across as easily liked people. Scout and Jem have a great relationship with their father and with each other. Also, I really liked the character of Atticus, as he comes across as a man you can really respect and admire. It's through him that the reader, along with Scout and Jem, come to learn some lessons in a sense as well. Of course, there are plenty of interesting secondary characters such as Boo Radley who Scout and Jem constantly try to lure from his reclusion in his home and Calpurnia, the woman who's like a mother to Scout and Jem. <br />I'd say this book may get off to somewhat of a slow start and for the first few pages, you may not understand how this is considered to be a classic, but it's a great book as you progress through it and it tells a very simple, yet wonderful story. If you're interested in reading it, go ahead and get it as you'll probably really like it.	2003-05-16
US	37628361	RYDYQODQ9XLMZ	055327886X	779432511	Rubyfruit Jungle	Books	3	18	23	N	N	An unique tale	I've just recently finished this novel for a college class I'm in dealing with gender and sexualities. The novel tells the coming-of-age story of Molly Bolt in primarily the 50's. As a child adopted by a very poor southern couple, Molly comes to realize early in her life she's a lesbian and she doesn't intend to apologize for this. Despite her family situation, she'a very smart and witty girl and people are drawn to her. After being kicked out by her mother who discovered she's lesbian, she goes out on her own determined to be successful. <br />I have to say like most other people in my class, I liked the character of Molly. She's smart, funny and witty. But, the book often seemed very unrealistic. Virtually every woman she meets that's her own age about ends up wanting to have sex with her once they discover she's lesbian. Now, I realize that must sound like an exaggeration, but if you read it you'll see it's not. The way in which she always ends up having sex with women is kind of hard to believe and some of her sexual encounters are comical. With all the sex she has and the gay people she meets, this book makes it seem like almost half the population is gay which I'm pretty sure isn't true, but these points shouldn't deter someone from reading the book if they're really interested. At one point, what's really weird is when Molly has sex with a woman who is a mother and her daughter finds out about it and starts to like Molly too and then wants to have sex with her own mother. That was even harder to believe. <br />But, the novel is easy reading and it's definitely something that's controversial. I can only imagine what people's reactions were to it when it came out. I think this book is worth reading since it's so simple and not particularly long. I have to say I do kind of have mixed feelings about it as one part of me feels like I'd never read it again and then another thinks the book was pretty good. I think this would be the kind of book it'd be fun to read with a friend and then discuss. I know there'd be plenty to discuss. So, even if you're only mildly interested, go ahead and pick this book up. It'll get you thinking and give you something to talk about.	2003-04-13
US	37628361	RZARXYUAD0VU2	0140432256	364473979	The Bostonians (English Library)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A different kind of novel than I'm used to	I finished reading this book only a few weeks ago for a college class I'm in. It certainly wasn't the kind of book I'd pick up just on my own, but I wouldn't say I didn't like it.<br />The story is set primarily in Boston and somewhat in New York during the 1880's. At the request of his cousin Olive Chancellor, southern lawyer Basil Ransom comes to visit. He accompanies her to a meeting where the young Verena Tarrant speaks wonderfully on women's rights. Olive is so impressed with Verena, she starts what's debatably a lesbian relationship with her, but Ransom is taken with Verena as well and so a struggle begins between the two for Verena's affections.<br />I think Henry James does an excellent job of giving complete descriptions of each character and you really get a sense of who they are. Olive comes across as rigid and passionate, Verena as young, full of life and curious and Basil as sexist and determined. Basil uses all his ability to wrench Verena from Olive. As I mentioned, the relationship between Verena and Olive is debatable. There are no sex scenes in this novel, but the implication is there. Additionally, I've learned in the class for which I read this novel that many women during this time period engaged in very intense romantic relationships which may or may not be described as sexual. <br />There are of course other characters such as Verena's parents and other women's rights activists, but the whole focus of the novel is on this struggle for Verena. It wouldn't be completely unfair to say that in some ways nothing much happens in this novel. It's truly a character driven story. There aren't really antagonists and protagonists in the story, but more just people whom all have faults and are just trying to make the right decisions. Although my description of Basil above may sound like a bad guy and although he's unapologetically sexist, he perhaps is no worse than Olive who sometimes seems to be using Verena, a young woman whose thoughts and feelings are maleable. At its heart, the novel is still a love story. Overall, I'd say this is probably worth reading if you like novels about this time period, about love or if you like this author. I wouldn't go so far as to say I'd read another novel by James, but I don't regret reading this.	2003-04-13
US	37628361	R12ZN4G9VRUR11	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not as good as I was hoping	I decided to read The Great Gatsby knowing what a classic it's considered to be, but I have to say I didn't personally think it was great. I'll tell the basic plot to the story and then elaborate on my feelings.<br />The story is told by Nick Carraway, a man living on Long Island next to the very wealthy Jay Gatsby. On first sight it appears Jay Gatsby has a wonderful live with his wealth and the extravagant parties he throws every week, but he's missing something. He's missing Daisy Buchanan's love. Daisy Buchanan is a woman he knew 5 years ago and fell in love with, but circumstances kept them apart. Coincidentally, Nick Carraway happens to be the 2nd cousin of Daisy whom lives only across a lake(which Gatsby knows). So, Gatsby befriends Carraway in an attempt to get back the love he lost. In retrospect, Carraway, as the narrator, relates the events of the period of his life in which he knew Gatsby and what happened.<br />Reading this book, I just found trouble getting really into it. The characters are described well enough and a pretty clear picture of them is painted of them(except maybe for Gatsby who is always surrounded by some mystery) and the writing was pretty good(the book isn't bogged down with very sophisticated language or anything like that), but for about the first half of the book I just found things to be kind of boring. The 2nd half gets a little more interesting when things start to pick up between Daisy and Jay. Also, there's an interesting cast of characters which seem very real and make the book more interesting.<br />Overall, I'd say that I would recommend reading this book since it is considered to be a classic and I know that others which read The Great Gatsby would probably have completely different opinions about the book and think it's great. Also, it's only about 197 pages, so it's really not too long. It's a book that I wouldn't be surprised that if I read again, like in a few years, perhaps maybe I'd have a different view of things. I do sort of get the feeling that maybe this is a book I'd appreciate a little more after another reading.I do sort of get the feeling that maybe this is a book I'd appreciate a little more after another reading.	2003-01-12
US	37628361	R2KNZ2Z5VPZF8W	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A very interesting look at the original Dracula	Although I'm not much of a horror fan, I decided to read Dracula since it was considered a classic and was hopefully pretty good. I'm glad I read it. It was a very interesting story. It wasn't what I was expecting. The whole novel is written as if you're reading someone's diary, telegram or news article. It starts with Jonathan Harker(a lawyer if I remember correctly) who is summoned to Count Dracula's castle to help Dracula obtain a home in London. He soon realizes Dracula is no ordinary man, but some kind of beast. This section takes about 1/4 of the book and then, after some deaths surrounded with unusual and frightening circumstances, Jonathan, along with some other interesting characters commit to not only prevent Dracula's move to London, but to kill him. This book was interesting in the fact that it was almost as if Dracula is not the main character of the novel, and I suppose in some ways, he's not. The book focuses much more on this group of people's attempts to hinder Dracula's actions and to cause his demise. Also, I liked reading the book and discovering the original story behind Dracula, not just all of the spoofs and parodies one sees today. I liked finding out that besides not liking garlic, crosses and sunlight, vampires also can't pass running water and can turn into wolves as well as bats. Although I can't say I was ever particularly scared reading this novel(probably because I don't really believe in vampires), I did find this novel to be very good, especially considering horror isn't one of the genres I'm particularly fond of. I definitely think it's worth picking up this book and reading it.	2003-01-09
US	37628361	RZSUNLD1YZFP1	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Mixed Feelings	A Farewell to Arms was the first book I've read by Hemingway. Seeing as he's such a well known author, I figured I'd try reading one of his books. But, I'm not exactly sure what to think about this book. I'm not sure if I really understand the main theme of the novel. At first it seems to focus on Henry's, the main character, time as an ambulance driver in Italy(although he's American himself), but after he gets hurt the novel makes a sudden change and focuses on his relationship with the English nurse Catherine Barkeley, whom he had met previously. But, the relationship between them seems to rushed. They claim to be in love with each other, although they've known each other for only days. Although I don't think it's impossible to love someone after only a few days, it seems as if the relationship wasn't given enough time to develop, perhaps maybe to get the novel moving. Anyway, after Henry's injured, he decides to flee with Catherine to Switzerland and his journey to get to her(while facing danger since he is apparently deserting the military) before they flee together and their journey together takes up most of the book. One thing I found particulary strange about this book was the dialogue, mainly between Henry and Catherine. It consisted of fairly short simple sentences and they never seemed to have real conversations. Also, and this may sound kind of weird, they seemed to agree too fast. I mean, it seemed as if as soon as one of them suggested doing something or going somewhere, the other one quickly agreed with out any discussion or protestation. They way in which they always were so willing to do what the other one wanted just seemed too simple and unrealistic. Also, often I found their conversations, mainly what Catherine said, to be comical, but I don't think that was the author's intention. The only part of this book that really touched me, was the end, but of course I won't mention what happened and ruin things.Anyway, I'm glad I read this book just to see what Hemingway's work is like and although I didn't enjoy the novel a lot or see clearly what the point to it was, I'll admit that perhaps it's one of those novels you'd have to read more than once to really appreciate. The book was fairly easy reading and if you read at a good pace and are interested in this book, or you're a big fan of Hemingway's, I think this book is worth reading.	2003-01-09
US	37628361	R3B6CTUVOCSTUO	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A pretty interesting read	This was the 2nd book by Dostoevsky that I've read, well, kind of. About a year ago I started reading The Idiot, but I found that pretty boring and didn't even finish it, but it was a very different case with Crime and Punishment. This book tells the story of a man named Raskolinov who decides to kill an old pawnbroker, justifying his actions by reasoning that the death of this miserable old woman will be better for society. Anyway, it's pretty interesting seeing how the main character behaves throughout the book. Besides the main character, there is an interesting supporting cast such as his friend, his mother and sister, and a family he helps which includes a prostitute he befriends. There are subplots concerning these characters which are interesting and in other novels these subplots would maybe be distracting and bog the novel down, but I think they're pretty interesting in Crime and Punishment and if it weren't for them, the book would be a lot shorter. Also, Dostoevsky does a good job bringing life to every character. I found it pretty easy to distinguish each character and I had a vivid image of what they're like. In reading this book, it wouldn't hurt to know something about Russian ideas and such in the 19th century, but I certainly wouldn't say it's necessary. Reading the novel, despite Raskolinov's plot of murder, I found that I couldn't help liking the character and wanting things to work out for him. For the most part, he seemed like an educated and caring man. I think this novel provides an interesting look into the way in which one's conscience can practically drive a person mad, as it often does with the main character. Although the character is about Russian people in Russia, I don't think that made the story any less interesting as the theme of the novel had much more to do with human nature and little to do with the fact that the characters are Russian. I think most people will find characters and feelings in this book that they can relate to. Overall, I think this book is worth the read. I'm glad I read it and I think it's a pretty good book.	2003-01-09
US	37628361	R38UP7U2LFZDP4	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A very interesting, unusual story	Catch-22 is a very interesting story about a bombardier named Yossarian stationed in Italy during WWII...The whole world seems crazy in this novel and there are plenty of crazy characters that inhabit it. It might sound weird to say, but there really isn't a plot in this story. It's just a bunch of funny and sometimes sad events told in a nonchronological order. This would make the story confusing, but since there isn't really a plot it doesn't really matter. Reading this novel one can tell there are many layers and meanings, but it's not neccessary to delve too deeply into these meanings as the book can be read just for it's hilarity. I found some parts to be laugh-out-loud funny. This book is somewhat hard to describe and one can really only appreciate it if they read it. It's worth reading and I personally got through it very quickly...	2002-07-30
US	37628361	R3CJQQ5V8CN293	0425133540	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A very intriguing and suspenseful story	Tom Clancy's The Sum of All Fears is another page turner full of suspense and a very interesting plot. Terrorists undertake to detonate a nuclear bomb within the United States to prevent a peaceful settlement to the conflicts in the Middle East. The title to this novel is very interesting and fitting as characters make decisions that are not rational, but are based on their fears and doubts. Although the story starts off slow, it becomes pretty amazingly suspenseful as the plot progresses, especially near the end. As in other novels, Clancy mixes a shockingly plausible scenario with incredible action. Reading this book, I found very interesting the way in which what started off as the most innocent event quickly escalated into a very tense and frightening situation. The main character, Jack Ryan, must deal with not only tense intelligence problems, but also with problems such as lack of sleep, failing health and marital problems. On top of that, Ryan must overcome a vindictive pesonal attack by National Security Advisor Elizabeth Elliot and the sometimes unfair expectations of President Fowler. Popular Clancy characters such as John Clark and Domingo Chavez also play a role in this story. I think perhaps one of the most interesting aspects to this story is the fact that the frightening plot is not so far fetched. It could very easily become a horrible reality. The way in which Clancy connects events in the story makes one think of how possible this all is and it's hard to imagine a more appropriate title than The Sum of All Fears. Having seen the movie based upon this story I can tell you that significant plot deatails were changed in the movie. Other than the planned nuclear detonation in America and the ensuing panic that takes place, the movie is very different. Perhaps the most noticeable difference is the fact that in the movie Jack Ryan(played by Ben Affleck) is a young man that has just recently joined the CIA. This certainly doesn't follow suit with the presentation of Jack Ryan as a married man in the movies Clear and Present Danger and Patriot Games. Although the screen adaptation is considerably different than the book, the movie is still pretty good and probably worth seeing. If you've seen the movie, whether or not you liked it, I'd still recommend reading the book as the plots are different enough that the book will not appear to be just a literary version of the movie. For this reason, I also recommend seeing the movie even if you've already read the book.The book is perhaps one of the most suspenseful I've read by Clancy and is full action. Clancy's vast military knowledge is certainly present and makes the story seem that much more interesting and plausible. I certainly recommend reading this book, especially if you're a big Clancy/Ryan fan.	2002-07-23
US	37628361	R15I1YW9031ZL6	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A very entertaining story	Clear and Present Danger is another fast paced Clancy thriller. Although I didn't feel it was as good as some of his others, it wasn't far behind. What I really liked about this book was the introduction to Domingo Chavez's character as a seargent in the U.S. Army. Also, in this book the reader sees the first meetings John Clark has with Jack Ryan and Domingo Chavez and it's interesting to watch these first interactions take place. Although this is a Jack Ryan novel it takes quite a while for his character to appear and even longer for him to start becoming important to the story, but the story is interesting even before this takes place. Like many people, I really like the character of Jack Ryan. I think his character is so appealing because he's an honest guy just trying to do the right thing in a world full of dishonest people with their own hidden agendas. This story just adds to that appealing image. I think what helps make Clancy's stories so good is the fact that there isn't always a clear line between right and wrong and you see the \\"good guys\\" sometimes make decisions that aren't completely noble. This isn't so much characteristic of Jack Ryan, but more so of John Clark and Domingo Chavez in this novel and in others. Because of this the reader is forced to weigh the clearly good actions of characters with their less than admirable actions and make their own judgments about each character. In Clear and Present Danger a covert military operation goes underway to considerably hamper the activities of the drug cartel in Colombia, but it's legality is called into question.(This mission is set in motion before the murder of important U.S. diplomats though the description on the back of the novel misleads readers into thinking this mission is a result of those deaths). As this covert mission takes place characters are forced to weigh the law with justice as the two aren't always one and the same and this is what makes the novel so interesting. In the end, Clear and Present Danger is a very interesting novel worth reading for the interesting plot and if you're a fan of Ryan, Clark, Chavez or all of the above. It's definitely worth reading for any true Clancy fan.	2002-07-13
US	37628361	R3DS5C0E9DN1ED	0399138250	685045441	Without Remorse	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A interesting look into the early life of John Clark	Without Remorse is another interesting book from Clancy. It focuses on characater John Clark throughout events which ultimately lead to his recruitment by the CIA and the \\"death\\" of John Kelly. This book basically contains two seperate plots, one concerning Clark's quest to avenge a prostitute with whom he fell in love with and whom was brutally murdered by her former pimp/drug dealer and a plot in which Clark is asked upon by the U.S. Navy, specifially Admiral James Greer, to assist in the rescue of POWs in Vietnam. Although both plots occur throughout the telling of the novel, the first half focuses primarily on Clark's personal vendetta against the pimp(and drug dealers in general) while a slow transition takes place during the middle of the novel in which more focus is put onto Clark's planned rescue attempt of POWs. I found the situation with the POWs more interesting, but Clark's personal mission against the drug dealers makes for more defining moments which affect Clark's character.( If you've read Clear and Present Danger you'll understand better Clark's antipathy towards drug dealers more after reading this.) Although these two seperate plots are enough for a book in themselves, I thought Clancy did a good job of making them both interesting and important to the story. Without Remorse makes Clark's past much less mysterious which seems in the bigger picture to be the novel's main function. One gains a lot more insight into Clark's motivations and innner mind. One thing I didn't like about this novel was the fact that's it's not made clear until considerably into the story that this is all taking place during the Vietnam era. Until that was made clear I automatically assumed this was taking place in the present. A very interesting aspect to this book is the connection John Clark has to Jack Ryan's father. I won't spoil what it is, but I thought it was a pretty interesting, albeit not necessary, connection. Clark's actions in this novel, as in others, are very questionable and when reading this one must try to answer that old question of \\"Does the end justify the means?\\" Clancy presents a realistic world in which there isn't a clear difference between right and wrong and Clark must struggle to balance the law with justice as they aren't always one and the same. In reading of Clark's actions one must ask themselve what they'd do in the same place and question the morality of those decisions and actions. While reading this novel you can't help but somewhat sympathize with and understand Clark's crude, violent acts, but at the same time acknowledge the fact that these acts aren't completely noble and right. Your sense of morals and ethics clashes with your darker desire to see the terrible people in this novel feel the same pain they've caused others. I feel that this book really deserves a rating between 3 and 4 stars, but since I can't give that I'll give it a 4. Overall, I don't think Without Remorse was as good as some of Clancy's other novels, but it's certainly worth the read if you're a big John Clark fan.	2002-07-13
US	37628361	RZGP36O13KRF5	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A very intriguing and suspenseful story	As with other Clancy novels, Executive Orders is full of intrigue and excitement. Before reading it I was unsure I'd find it interesting thinking that it was more a political story than a military-type action story found in other Clancy novels, but I went ahead and read it and I think it's one of the best ones I've read by Clancy. It contains multiple plots concerning reestablishing the government, an attack on Jack Ryan and his daughter, a biological attack on America and a question of whether or not Ryan is really the president. All of these different happenings help to make this book very exciting and compeling. It's a book you don't want to put down. Although this book is rather long and many people have often complained of the length of this book and others by Clancy, I appreciate Clancy's attention to detail even if perhaps sometimes unnecessary. That attention to detail helps the stories to be better written and gives the reader the feeling that Clancy really knows what he's talking about. Also, I've read Debt of Honor which came before Executive Orders and I think Executive Orders is considerably better. For any true Clancy/Jack Ryan fan this is worth the read.	2002-07-06
