US	37679860	R1CWELEG43ZVH0	0140237208	237860482	The Singing Creek Where the Willows Grow: The Mystical Nature Diary of Opal Whiteley	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Astounding literature	This book is the diary of a six-year-old girl named Opal Whiteley, who grew up in Oregon logging camps in the early 1900s. She loved nature and her writing style was inimitably beautiful.<br /><br />Her diary was published first in 1920, but became the centre of a large controversy and was dismissed as a fraud. Mr Hoff discovered a copy of this book by chance in 1983, and was so fascinated by it that he spent years researching the life of Opal to determine the true story.<br /><br />It most certainly is no fraud. Mr Hoff opens this book with a very well-researched, unbiased biography of Opal which proves beyond doubt that this really was her diary written at age six. He follows this up with the diary (or what exists of it), and ends with the tale of his story of trying to meet Opal personally.<br /><br />The tone of the book, by the time you have read from beginning to end, is one of tragedy. However, like the lonely, brave tones of a bird chirping through the twilight its farewell to the setting sun and a day that shall never return, beauty sometimes IS bitter sweet; but the quiet love, the charming way Opal describes her surroundings, her pets, the people she meets, and the voices of the natural world which Opal understood so well balance out the sadness and make this book well worth reading and adding to your personal collection.<br /><br />Opal's story is at once a sad commentary on the way one small hint of a rumour can snowball into the destruction of a person's life and a celebration of childhood and nature. It is mostly the latter.<br /><br />This is a brief passage from the diary part of the book, to give you a sample of its simplistic yet profound loveliness.<br /><br />\\"And all the times I was picking up potatoes, I did have conversations with them. Too, I did have thinks of all their growing days here in the ground, and all the things they did hear. Earth-voices are glad voices, and earth-songs come up from the ground through the plants; and in their flowering, and in the days before these days are come, they do tell the earth-songs to the wind. And the wind in her goings does whisper them to folks to print for other folks, so other folks do have knowing of earth's songs. When I grow up, I am going to write for children - and grownups that haven't grown up too much - all the earth-songs I now do hear.\\"<br /><br />Doesn't that just sound like such music?<br /><br />Please read this book. Take it to heart.<br /><br />And thank you, Mr Hoff, for your loving tribute to an amazing woman, and for the hard work you did to bring this masterpiece back into the public eye.d in their flowering, and in the days before these days are come, they do tell the earth-songs to the wind. And the wind in her goings does whisper them to folks to print for other folks, so other folks do have knowing of earth's songs. When I grow up, I am going to write for children - and grownups that haven't grown up too much - all the earth-songs I now do hear.\\" <br /> <br />Doesn't that just sound like such music? <br /> <br />Please read this book. Take it to heart.  <br /> <br />And thank you, Mr Hoff, for your loving tribute to an amazing woman, and for the hard work you did to bring this masterpiece back into the public eye.	2005-07-19
US	37679860	R1WE5RTY03GT61	0140444556	862645983	Netochka Nezvanova (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Intense, but excellent read	I got this book with some Christmas money this Christmas. Reading it was amazing to me, but then Dostoevsky almost always amazes me. His characters are so believable, even though they're always mentally such a mess - severely distraught, haunted by memories, twisted out of stability by circumstance, or downright delusional. Netochka wanting so desperately to be loved and being frightened to death of people who tried to be kind to the point of making them sick of her...<br /><br />I found this to be a fascinating and all too short read. I would love to know how the story was intended to come out in the end. I felt the story moved along in the first two parts; the third part began to lose momentum, but I think that's because the conflict in it was not really resolved. The first part was the best-written, though. I would definitely agree with the other reviewers on that point.<br /><br />The second part was indeed strange, and yet not so strange. Netochka has this thing for kissing the princess Katya at the place where she lives after her father dies. That seems downright odd, but I don't think it really is. I think a lot of people would take this as some sort of lesbian angle in the story, but I think it's something else, because I can see right into Netochka's soul. She has such a fervent desire to love someone, because she has never had anyone to be her \\"hero\\" or that was nice to her, really nice to her. Katya is everything she is not: impetuous, rambunctious, energetic, a real livewire. Netochka is a thinker, silent, emotional, but would like to be more like Katya. The two of them battle furiously with one another in spirit, competition is intense, until finally one night they talk after being put to bed and admit that they really adore one another after all. But back to the kissing bit. I think this is a result of lack of physical contact of any kind with other people. Netochka has lived her life with no hugging, handholding, kissing, cuddling... It just didn't happen. So, to love people so intensely and want to kiss them seems like normal human reaction. Katya was available. It is possible to be very close to another woman and not be lesbian. I think Netochka worshipped her - but not in a romantic way.<br /><br />I enjoyed reading this book very much, although I had to put it down sometimes because its intensity was too much for me, and come back to it a few hours later. I recommend it as a glimpse into Dostoevsky's early writings and to see themes arising that he later developed more fully in other works.t happen. So, to love people so intensely and want to kiss them seems like normal human reaction. Katya was available. It is possible to be very close to another woman and not be lesbian. I think Netochka worshipped her - but not in a romantic way.  <br /> <br />I enjoyed reading this book very much, although I had to put it down sometimes because its intensity was too much for me, and come back to it a few hours later. I recommend it as a glimpse into Dostoevsky's early writings and to see themes arising that he later developed more fully in other works.	2005-01-08
US	37679860	RTNZ7CZQ5NFUU	1413413641	542132383	Rosalie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent reworking of a less than excellent film	I was so happy to finally read this book. If only the film &quot;Rosalie&quot; had been as good! Claire Schwartz has taken the story from the film and altered it to make the characters and situation much more believeable and definitely more interesting. Instead of a West Point student and a princess, we have a pretty barmaid and a music student (who later is a pilot in the war), and instead of an elusive dot on the map called Romanza, we have a very real France.<br /><br /> I got this book about a month ago, and didn't go to bed until I'd read the whole thing. I really liked it and recommend it highly.	2004-08-05
US	37679860	RQODOWZLG0BJU	0595138799	766906639	Nelson Eddy - America's Favorite Baritone: An Authorized Tribute	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Don't be so hard on this book	Certainly Ms. Lulay isn't the best author ever, but one has to admire her for portraying Nelson as a more believeable person than another author has done.<br />It's nice to read a book about someone by someone who isn't out to unearth the sins and scandals of a Hollywood person. It's nice to know that out there there are other people who agree with me on the point that Nelson was a gentleman who loved his wife - not some abusive, alcholic, obsessive person out to rape his leading lady. Nelson's reputation as a person while he was alive so contradicted this odd view that one has to believe Lulay is much closer to the truth.<br />What's wrong with a man who likes to read and spends a quiet life at home, shut away from the world when not performing? Nothing. I think that's rather normal. It's certainly far more admirable and more refreshing to think about than illicit affairs and the like.<br />This book is easy to read and I recommend it far above the other book out there that (sadly) most people run into first.<br />I'm sure I'll receive flack from people for having said a good word for this book, but that's OK. It's my opinion, and I'm not going to force it on anyone.	2004-06-12
US	37679860	R3RKC7L7B4ZAVI	084233498X	290856073	Leota's Garden	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A refreshing change of pace	I usually hesitate to read Christian fiction, because I usually think of Amish soap operas between covers or predictable, trite romances. However, someone had this book in the lunchroom at work, and once I started reading it, I knew I was going to have to finish it.<br />It was very interesting to me. Francine Rivers gives her characters believable situations and personalities. Things aren't perfect - in fact, they're incredibly and realistically less than ideal. A neglected grandmother, an over-achieving mother, and a know-it-all college student who's living with a girlfriend among others. The way the author depicted the Thanksgiving dinner fiasco really hit home, because it's so sadly realistic: Men retreat to the TV to watch a ball game while everyone's stressed out and unhappy and not communicating well. I've been there, and can relate.<br />Another thing I appreciated was the fact that romance was not at the centre of the story: This author had a real message to convey, and she didn't make it depend on romance. It was about relationships from beginning to end, and about love, but it was not a romance at heart. It's about learning to unconditionally show even the most unlovable Christ's love through the way we live and react, and about the eventual blessings reaped from such an attitude. The book didn't end with a wedding, and it didn't need to. That was not the point, and that made me glad.<br />Nor did everything end perfectly, but there was an incredible measure of hope that in time all would be well again.<br />I definitely recommend this book!	2004-03-20
US	37679860	RADPB1SE7M10I	0810908980	556096523	Gowns by Adrian : The MGM Years 1928-1941	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A treasure, dahlings, an absolute treasure	I have two favourite things to do - sew doll clothes and study classic cinema, and this book inspires both. I didn't know much about Adrian before - I was always seeing his name in credits for MGM movies, and when I heard about this book I thought, &quot;Hey, let's get it from the library and see what it's all about.&quot; I was completely pulled into the book right away.<br />There is a lot of text, all very informative and easy to read, and it is perfectly balanced by a whole parade of sumptuous black and white photographs of ladies gowned by Adrian, movie stills of the ladies in his designs, and several of Adrian's sketches for the dresses. I have looked at this book so many times and always find something new and interesting. I'm working on reading through it, but I am always reading here and there in it anyway, and in the filmography in the back I've been underlining the titles of all the movies he designed for that I have seen. (Quite a few, but not nearly all!) I am beginning to be able to tell just from looking at a dress in a movie whether it's one of Adrian's or not - and that's not just because I'm hearing the lion roar before the credits, either - he had a very definitive style, and when you expose yourself to enough of it, you immediately recognise it. Adrian could be bizarre and innovative in a very classy way. He knew what was right for the actress who would wear the dress, knew how to make the dresses play into the scenes in which they would be worn. He also believed that a dress should have &quot;one note&quot;, or one thing about it that stood out and made it unique from any other gown - beading, embroidery, whatever - and I think that this is why even his more ordinary gowns had a certain look to them.<br />This book is an education and a delight and everyone interested in fashion history, movie history, or just beautiful things should have this on their coffee table.	2003-06-09
US	37679860	R1XW6CVVQ5Z32T	0140364854	665364696	Follow My Leader	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent book for children	I enjoy reading good children's books even though technically I've \\"outgrown\\" them. This one was very absorbing and a wonderful story that every child should read - or have read to them by a parent or relative or somebody, because adults can enjoy it and benefit from it as well.<br />I won't say anything about the story, but the characters are all very nice. Jimmy's sister is helpful, his teacher and friends are kind, and Jimmy is ultimately forgiving and goes on bravely - very good role-models for young readers to acquaint themselves with.<br />I don't know exactly what else to say except that I recommend this book very highly.	2002-10-13
US	37679860	R211VLHYU7JBHW	0807507946	43938615	Blue Bay Mystery (The Boxcar Children Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Another one of my favourites	I used to read this and think it would be so fun to go to a tropical island with Lars and the Boxcar Children and live on sea biscuits.<br />I still find it a very good book. I'm not sure what the other reviewers mean about its being slow at the beginning - every story has to have a beginning. You can't jump into the action without a bit of setting or you fall flat. Anyway. I didn't find it slow.<br />I recommend it greatly, especially if you like stories of survival on remote islands.	2002-09-28
US	37679860	R35DWH8B57WA9L	0807551414	314274726	Mike's Mystery (The Boxcar Children Mysteries)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Go Mike	This, along with The Woodshed Mystery, was my favourite book (not just Boxcar Children, but books in general) for some time. It brings back to life the definite promise of adventure from the third book that slumbered through the fourth, and is one of the most well-laid-out and realistic of the series. At least I've always thought so. :)<br />We met Mike in \\"Surprise Island\\", and here he is back again in the little town that has sprung up around the Aldens' uranium mines. But when his house burns down suspiciously, a mystery follows. I think much of the reason I liked this so much was because the two youngest children, Benny and Mike, were really the main ones solving the mystery, with a bit of help here and there from the elder ones.<br />Definitely give your children this book. I know they will love it.	2002-09-28
US	37679860	R2F363TYQT3IIR	0807553913	903052048	Mystery Ranch (The Boxcar Children Mysteries)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	It's not so mysterious	Why isn't this book as good as the rest? I hated it when i was little, much as I loved the rest of the original series. Years have passed since then and I read it again and it's not so bad. But the other reviewers are correct in the fact that this is no mystery, really.<br />As for the purpose of this book in the scheme of the entire series, it's actually very important. This book is the important link between books 3 and the rest of the series. This book introduces Aunt Jane, a very important role in the future of the children, and it sets the groundwork for book 5, \\"Mike's Mystery\\", which takes place on the same ranch some time later. And book 5 is the springboard for Mike to be more important in later adventures. So there is a purpose to this book.<br />I can't really recommend it though. But any child who wants to read the whole series should not skip this book - it's still part of the experience, no matter how dull it may seem, and it's really not THAT bad.	2002-09-28
US	37679860	R3JJDBUW0B0I8R	0807592072	877022985	The Woodshed Mystery (The Boxcar Children Mysteries)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of my all-time favourite Boxcar Children adventures	Like \\"Mike's Mystery\\", this is a mystery with a solid foundation and never once drags.<br />I first read it when I was about eight and learnt several things I didn't know before. I learned what ammunition meant. It also was my first introduction to any information about the Revolutionary War.<br />The story takes place primarily on a farm in New England that dates back to the 1700's. Grandfather and Aunt Jane grew up there, and he buys it back for her to live in. But everyone seems to think something is wrong with the house, and the children set out to find out what it is and clear the air of all secrets. And they are pretty sure the woodshed holds an important clue.<br />Read this book to your children - I am sure they will like it.	2002-09-28
US	37679860	R3H0YL8YND70HU	078686303X	388489321	Last Dinner On the Titanic: Menus and Recipes from the Great Liner	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Delicious look into the culinary side of Titanic!	We got this book from the library when Titanic items were the rage and easy to get to. I've always been interested in the ship. This was a fascinating book. Trying to pronounce some of the elaborate first-class items on the menu was fun.<br />There are plenty of photographs and nice illustrations in this book. It's a joy to look at, and the third-class soup spoons were huge. Personally I thought the saltine and veggie soup diet of the third class looked the most appetising. : )<br />You should get this book if you like Titanic, giving parties, exotic cookbooks, or just something different for fun.	2002-09-20
US	37679860	R2LSVR89OHEADH	0807593656	590658838	The Yellow House Mystery (Boxcar Children)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great mystery for children	This was the first real mystery story I ever read, when I was about eight or nine years old, and I madly adored it, except that for some reason the part about the grating brick freaked me out. It has never scared any other child I know who read the book, but for some reason after reading that I couldn't go to sleep for a long time many nights! It really is a well-thought-out mystery - I always thought it was, but after it scared me I didn't dare to read it again for years!<br />But last week I read it again, and enjoyed it very much again. Of course nothing is as exciting to the adult mind in such a book as it is to a child, but I can still see the appeal in the story and get pleasure from reading it all the same.<br />Basically the story is... Grandfather's \\"Surprise Island\\" has a little yellow house on it. The children sense there is a mystery about it, so they ask Grandfather to tell them about it. He says that a man named Bill lived there with his wife. He disappeared one day, presumably with a large amount of money, and no one was ever able to find where he went. But the Boxcar children are always ready for a challenge and they set off to look for Bill.<br />Excellent story that all boys and girls should read or have read to them.	2002-09-20
US	37679860	ROXYCV9CZ1ZNL	1931313644	867479683	Arch of Triumph	Books	3	2	29	N	N	Good but not thrilling	I saw the movie with Ingrid Bergman and Charles Boyer, and found it incredibly dull. I thought maybe the book would be better. I was right, it was better, but it didn't thrill me or really move me the way All Quiet on the Western Front did. I am not sure if this is partly due to the fact that I read it when I was a bit tired.<br />I don't really have a lot to say. It's not a book that I can enthusiastically applaud, but I won't say it was horrible. I would advise you to just read it for yourself and decide whether you like it or not! : )	2002-09-19
US	37679860	R10LNVL2AT5ZCM	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Please enter a title for your review:	A friend of my mom's in France sent me this book quite a long time ago. It sat on my shelf for months before I finally picked it up to read it - and by the time I got to the second or third page I didn't want to put it down. I finished it that same afternoon.<br />This book is amazing because the author has the talent to use the journal format in a very effective way. Not many people can do that. Usually I find that style rather dull - but here it is outstanding. Through first person you step into Charly's shoes. As things dawn on him, they dawn on you. Some parts are humourous and most are touched with a bit of pathos, because you know that any minute all he has gained is going to go. And when he goes - you go with him.<br />It's very sad and moving overall and I was so affected by it that I didn't want to even talk to anyone for several hours after finishing it. I just kept thinking about the story.<br />It's definitely a classic and I think everyone should read it.	2002-09-03
US	37679860	R3SE9OUNDGQRXL	0440032997	281527378	Ingrid Bergman: My Story	Books	4	9	11	N	N	I can't believe this book is out of print	What shall I say about this book? I always enjoy autobiographies about people I like, and although I didn't know too much about Ingrid Bergman prior to reading this book, my interest in her life became stronger after finishing it. I made a list of all her movies and have been seeing them as I can get hold of them.<br />Profound statement: Ingrid tells about her life in this book. (duh)<br />She does a very good, coherent job, and moves along steadily. There is humour as well as sadness. I liked the part when she told David O Selznick at their first meeting that she would not wear makeup and would not change anything about her appearance, and if he didn't like it she would go back to Sweden on the next train. I personally am glad he decided she could remain as she was.<br />I recommend this book as a good introduction to Ingrid. I enjoyed reading this very much and I think everyone should read it.	2002-09-01
US	37679860	R2YHDDS54VQEE4	0765108674	828129948	Politically Correct: The Ultimate Storybook	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Very funny, boys, very funny, ha ha ha	I first read some of these stories quite a while ago. I enjoyed the Snow White story quite a bit, and having spent some time in a trailer park, I can easily understand the people in Pied Piper of Hamelin. Although I am not a feminist and think personally that the old values are better than the new ones, I can still appreciate the humour in most of the stories. I can't say I enjoyed all of them though.<br />Mostly the reason I got this book was because of the Christmas collection, which is by far the best set of these stories that James Garner has done. This section gets three of my stars.<br />&quot;The Night Before Solstice&quot; is a very well-done parody. &quot;The children were nestled all snug in their beds, dreaming of lentils and warm whole-grain breads...&quot; He talks about how overfed Santa is and how bad smoking is for Santa's health.<br />&quot;Frosty the Snowman&quot; concerns two argumentative children who build a snowman and when he tells them he's going to melt, they march to Washington to protest about abuse of the ozone layer.<br />&quot;Rudolf the Red-Nosed Reindeer&quot; is the story of a disliked outsider who suddenly became OK to Santa when Santa could get some use out of him. But Rudolf won't have any of it. He says the deer are underprivileged and need a more flexible work schedule and a retirement plan.&ugrave;<br />&quot;The Nutcracker&quot; is in here too, but at the time I read it I didn't know the real story and therefore it didn't make any impression on me.<br />The there's &quot;A Christmas Carol&quot;... You know, the story that begins with that famous line: &quot;Jacob Marley was non-viable.&quot; The ghosts try to teach him all he needs to know. The second one in particular I remember. He was a fat slob and went from house to house to raid the fridge. When all is said and done, Scrooge decides he's a victim of circumstance like Diminutive Tim&ograve;n... It's all quite involved and you really have to read it for yourself. But it's very funny. I've read it many times. (I recommend that you read the real story by Dickens first - it's not that long - it will make you laugh more at the PC one.)<br />So if for nothing else, get this for the Christmas section.y. I've read it many times. (I recommend that you read the real story by Dickens first - it's not that long - it will make you laugh more at the PC one.)<br />So if for nothing else, get this for the Christmas section.	2002-09-01
US	37679860	R2PPNFRAXAAEWB	0060187026	776955123	Notorious: The Life of Ingrid Bergman	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Don't mistake the title	This book isn't about everything bad that Ingrid did, even though that's the impression the title gives. This is a well and thoroughly researched and very readable biography. Donald Spoto speaks about Ingrid with respect, and although he mentions her weaknesses and failings, I don't feel he's doing it to spread dirt around. If it happened it happened, but he doesn't spend half the book talking about it.<br />Except where it concerns Rossellini, and that is perfectly understandable, because everyone who knows about Ingrid knows that was a real and terrible time in her life. I think it's sad that she went through all that and the marriage ended up falling apart anyway.<br />Anyway, basically he speaks of her work. She went crazy without it, and really as I think about it her life was work. That's what I remember froming reading this.<br />It is a very good book, and like everything I have read by Spoto, is well-written and highly interesting. I recommend it very much.<br />Is this a creative review or what? I seem to be suffering some sort of blank as far as reviews are concerned this morning.	2002-09-01
US	37679860	R32KOZCJMGEQXV	0380452529	651280243	Don't Look Now	Books	2	0	3	N	N	Not as bad as The Breaking Point...	But if anyone asked me what these stories were about I would not be able to tell them. I remember the titles and some of the details but not the stories. Way over my head. And I am a pretty well-read person so it's not that I'm just not a reader. I wouldn't recommend this really highly because her novels are so much better. Try The King's General, The House on the Strand.	2002-08-31
US	37679860	R2DMMEJM9DDZAJ	0380010720	423519559	Breaking Point	Books	2	2	8	N	N	I wish I could give this more, but I can't	If I had only been able to drag myself to the very end... but I still would have given it only 2 stars. I read about halfway through and finally decided that this book must be in Greek.<br />The one story that did something for me and earns this book its two-star status was the second one about the blue glasses. A young woman had surgery on her eyes and when they took the bandages off they installed blue glasses in her eyes so as to adjust to light before putting the clear ones in. But something went wrong, either with the surgery or the glasses, because she sees everyone with an animal head that defines their character. She is very relieved when her clear glasses get put in to see that everyone has a normal person's head again... but I won't take away the surprise ending. Get this book for this story's sake and you won't be sorry. Get it for a whole volume of good short stories and you will be sorry. Which is too bad.	2002-08-31
US	37679860	R3N2PKTE767STZ	038505355X	651051751	The Flight of the Falcon	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Very good book	It's a pity the editorial opinion doesn't match the general positivity of the customer reviews! I personally felt this was a very GOOD story. Well laid out. I can't really tell about the story, because most of the thrill of reading Daphne du M's work is figuring it out as you go, piecing together the bits and coming out with a peculiar and always wonderful ending. She had to be the master of endings. Anyway, this is a good story. I got it from the library while I was working last year and took it along sometimes to read between breaks and at lunch and stuff. I loved the way that all along you felt as if the book was heading toward one thing... then that was suddenly resolved and it went in a somewhat different direction. I recommend it highly.	2002-08-31
US	37679860	R3LOEEMQ3KFT61	0807508519	819978800	The Boxcar Children	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A book every child should read	I've hunted and hunted through the jungle of Amazon for this particular copy to review, because I hate the modern cover (it completely detracts from the quaint illustrations within), and because this was the first one I read. It puts all the ones written since Gertrude Warner's death to shame. There isn't anything to back them up, while her originals are still strong in both the plot and the characters.<br />My mother brought it home from the library and said I could read it. I was about eight or so and I began right away and read it many times. I think all children should have the experience of a good \\"survival story\\", and this one is good because it's practical. No South Sea islands, just four ordinary children who are afraid of their grandfather and so make a home for themselves in a boxcar after their mother and father die.<br />The children are all so mature and industrious. Can you imagine four typical children of today having the imagination to do what these children did? Benny would probably have to have a computer game or something, and instead of a cute teddy bear he would have a Spiderman action figure. Jessie wouldn't be content to stay and make the place cosy for her little \\"family\\", and what would she have done with Violet and Benny while she went off with Henry to find work? Perhaps she would leave Henry to play mother while she went out alone. I suppose my whole point is, this story comes from an age when children were still children and their parents instilled good values in them and taught them responsibility. Very good example for any child to follow. But it's all very subtle. Not a bit of preaching throughout.<br />The pictures in this book are also very beautiful - they're silhouettes. I was always sorry that the rest of the series didn't have these same illustrations, but I did eventually become used to the Gehr and Cunningham artwork.<br />Every child should read this book.	2002-08-29
US	37679860	R2K5N36ND9OLQ2	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This review pales in comparison with the book......	I have never been a big fan of war movies or war stories, but I decided I would give this a try. I found that I enjoyed it very much. Perhaps to say I enjoyed it isn't quite the proper way to express what I thought of the story. It's very different from the typical war story, whether in book or film form. There is no glamour, no romance - just day-to-day, sometimes brutal reality. Yet it isn't an entirely gruesome story.<br />It is well written. The first-person aspect draws you straight into the narrator's shoes, and the present-tense form causes you to move right along with the action (or the long periods of sitting and eating while waiting for action). I do not mean to insinuate by that that nothing happens in this book. A lot happens. But the mundane has become all-important to the soldiers, and I didn't even think about it most of the time that this book is basically only about the very mundane. Trapping geese because there isn't anything good to eat, lying in a hospital watching people who are wheeled out and don't come back. Sitting for hours in a shell-hole with a man you have shot dead, looking at the pictures of his wife and daughter that he carries in his wallet, thinking for several pages about little else.<br />Although it is all very sad I didn't find it depressing, even at the end. But then I seem to have a tendency toward the grim and depressing so maybe that's just me. I definitely consider this a classic and I hope to read more of Remarque's work in the future.	2002-08-29
US	37679860	R23EBHRIHH9NM2	0807576735	845186301	Surprise Island (The Boxcar Children Mysteries)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Full of surprises	I still enjoy these books even though the real thrill of reading them only happens when you're still a child. I remember not liking this one much the first time through, actually, but then a year later or so re-reading it and liking it.<br />Basically it's a summer of re-living the survival skills of the first book, except they are in a barn on their grandfather's island. A captain and his so-called handyman live close by to help if anything should happen. But the handyman seems to know a lot, and the children find it hard to believe that he's only a handyman.<br />This book also marks the first appearance of Benny's friend Mike, who plays a pretty important role in some of the books to come. It also hints at the yellow house, which was what spurred the story of the third book (the first real mystery in the series).<br />Definitely should be read as part of the real Boxcar Children experience - not the foundationless fluff written by various authors of today.	2002-08-29
US	37679860	R1J2RP7AYX71GT	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Stunning Literature	It's quite pitiful that so many people don't see the beauty and Southern grace that is infiltrated all through this book. I've never been in Alabama, but I've had enough contact with Southern types of people and this is a very accurate portrayal: time moves slowly, everyone takes it easy...<br />I watched this movie earlier this year and was completely taken by it. But I'm not reviewing the movie. The book was just as good. Every time I put it down I just wanted to pick it up and go on reading.<br />It was, contrary to several reviewers' statements, very easy to follow. Yes, it can be a bit scattered at times, but much of its charm lies in the child's narration, surprisingly mature at times and yet all the same naive. It flows along slowly but never once drags. And I like the dialect. Of course we all knows Southern folk have awful grammar, but I don't rightly think that ought to matter. If you ever lived around folks who talks like this, you'll realise how very authentic it is. Adds a touch, like.<br />Overall I felt this was a very moving story. I must say that every time I read Atticus' words I just heard Gregory Peck saying them. The way Scout describes her father's voice matches Gregory's so perfectly...<br />I'm already reading this a second time, and I hardly ever read books again just after finishing them. Let that be my recommendation after my wandering review.	2002-08-26
US	37679860	RUG3HSHSOBS1S	5557079394	462575543	The King's General	Books	5	43	48	N	N	I am a black widow spider	My friend said she read this book and hated it. I didn't pay much attention, and probably would never have checked it out. I'm not much a fan of historical dramas. But when another friend said she read it and hated it I became very interested of a sudden. I had to know what was so horrible and depressing about this story.<br />And I have never regretted reading it.<br />I will confess. The characters are less than ideal. Sir Richard Grenvile is a self-centred cad; Honour Harris is a vain, spoiled maiden. Gartred is evil to the core, but every story has to have a villain, so that's all right.<br />But for some reason these characters are real. I've known self-centred cads before and I can easily understand Honour's tireless, devoted devotion to Richard, regardless of what he does or says.<br />Honour is crippled early in the book and spends the rest in a wheelchair. From this confining angle of vision comes a story of epic proportions, a sort of Cornwallian Gone With the Wind. Set in the 1600's during some civil war (I cannot tell which one, or if it was the only one), it tells the story of surviving invading soldiers and the desolation of the aftermath of war.<br />This story has it all. Romance, intrigue, births, deaths, tragedies, and the gothic setting of Menabilly. I cannot understand why my two friends hate it so. It was the best, most realistic, most fascinating story that I had read in a long time, and I felt peculiarly alive and inspired when I had finished it.<br />I told this to my first friend and she backed away from me. She referred to this motion as (I paraphrase) her retreat from a black widow spider. \\"How can you like that horrible book?\\" she asked. She and my other friend and I have had many, many debates - I in defense and they against me.<br />But I am happy to be a black widow spider as long as my web... web of intrigue... can be this book.	2002-08-07
US	37679860	R2WJ3Y9V9JQFI9	1568491425	551523711	My Cousin Rachel	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Interesting...	The word Interesting covers a lot of ground. It can mean Unique or Fascinating, and it is a polite way to say you think something is ugly or stupid.<br />I'm not sure completely which definition of Interesting I would use in relation to this book, because it was really weird, and yet it was a good story as well. I think it's one I would need to read several times to really figure out.<br />For someone who is new to Daphne du Maurier, I recommend Rebecca, The House on the Strand, and The King's General. Save this one for when you know you like her strangeness enough to appreciate it regardless of how it is presented.	2002-08-07
US	37679860	R254GUL66G3C1G	1585670928	567998267	Hitchcock Poster Art	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A very colourful, neato kind of book	I enjoyed looking at this book - I got it from the library. It's got many posters and lobby cards from Hitchcock's works, all in colour. And it's not just the same ones you see everywhere. This has posters from other countries too. Some of them are really WEIRD. Especially the Polish ones. But interesting. I think you should give this book a try if you like Hitchcock.	2002-08-07
US	37679860	RBB2SDIUBFMNS	0571193064	294708788	Me and Hitch	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Really short and easy to read	But worth the time. It's very interesting. As some other reviewers have said, most of it is anecdotes... but they are very interesting all the same. Evan Hunter talks mostly about &quot;The Birds&quot; and the script and story developments as he writes about them are very good. He talks a bit about &quot;Marnie&quot; as well but since he didn't work very long on that, he didn't have much to say.<br />I recommend you to read this, but unless you like to own everything about or by Hitchcock, just get it from the library first... : )	2002-08-07
US	37679860	R2ZHVXMOFJCUUY	0881886157	270635302	Phantom of the Opera - Souvenir Edition: Piano/Vocal Selections (Melody in the Piano Part)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	This is a very good book	They selected the best songs and I'm very glad to have a copy. It's a bit difficult to play these numbers on a harp (I have no piano)... but I like having it anyway, being a Phantom nut as I am. There's not much I can say about sheet music but I recommend this.	2002-08-07
US	37679860	RAXGLVYEV0VH7	081221725X	62811011	The Scapegoat	Books	3	1	6	N	N	I'd probably like it better after a second reading	This was a well-written book but it lacked the fantastic eeriness of some of Daphne du Maurier's other works (Rebecca, The House on the Strand, The Flight of the Falcon). The concept was really good - two guys changing places. But this isn't a Prince and the Pauper change with mutual agreement. John is forced into it.<br />For this reason this book is very interesting. Not one person notices the change except for one.<br />I can't really say much about this book because it's been a while since I've read it and it didn't make the same impression on me as some of her other stuff. But it was good and as long as you are n't expecting something spooky to happen, you'll have a great time reading it.	2002-08-06
US	37679860	RV7XMQ2843M3N	0812217268	982930987	The House on the Strand	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Superb Piece of Literature	Daphne du Maurier has a very rare talent, and that is to concisely describe the little details that make up such a great part of her stories. She notices the dust on the windowsill, a certain glance of light, the ant crawling through the grass, and turns it from a trivial, fleeting thought into a concrete one. It's so natural. The human mind is capable of so many thoughts, but few human minds can capture them so perfectly.<br />But enough digression... This was a grand and glorious book, about a guy and his scientist friend Magnus. Written in first person as many of D du M's books are, right away the story draws the reader into the very mind of the main dude (whose name I cannot remember so I'll call him \\"I\\"). Basically, the main guy is Magnus' guinea pig. Magnus is one of those scientists who, like Dr Jekyll or Dr Frankenstein, delve into the unknown and in the end destroy themselves or others. Magnus does both. In a way, more than Magnus or Mr I, the drug Magnus creates is the main character. It is a dangerous menace. And addicting. Magnus and Mr I cannot be content with only one trip. The trips take them many years back in history to their town as it used to be, and \\"I\\" particularly is caught up in the lives of certain people there. Magnus is the same to a less determined degree.<br />The trouble is that when Magnus extracted Mr I's promise to do the experiment, \\"I\\" was not counting on his wife and sons coming around to see him at Magnus' house...<br />So he has to be careful when and where he takes the drug. Sometimes he winds up very far from home. Sometimes it leaves him ill. But he is caught up in history and will not be content to stop.<br />The ending is unrivalled. There is no other book that I've ever read with such an unexpected last paragraph. Do me and yourself a favour and don't dare look at the last page until you get there. The entire impact of the book rests on that last line.<br />I recommend this book with all my heart. It is altogether fascinating and I want to read it again very soon.nating and I want to read it again very soon.	2002-08-06
US	37679860	R3HVPYG6UFRHW1	0385302967	977596585	Phantom	Books	1	18	50	N	N	Don't bother...	I got this book with high expectations. During the peak of my Phantom craze, I wanted to read everything that pertained, and many fellow Phans said this was a wonderful book, so I got it from the library.<br />I regret to say that I was NOT thrilled to the depths of my soul. I felt that Susan Kay portrayed Erik as too dark and evil a man, making not-too-subtle suggestions of demon-possession. I did not get this picture of him from Leroux's novel, but rather thought of him as a pitiful creature, whose \\"magic\\" was not really so, but rather genius. It is indisputable that Erik had the mind of a genius. But demon-possessed? Not.<br />Susan Kay's Erik I can feel no sympathy for; Leroux's Erik I can.<br />Susan Kay's Erik is hard, unfeeling, coarse, hateful. Leroux's Erik is sentimental at heart, beneath a forbidding exterior, and his all-encompassing desire is to be loved and to love. He appears cruel, but he doesn't mean to be, at least not to Christine...<br />Anyway, I felt this book was rather a waste of time. Susan Kay has an interesting writing style, but the content was not worth a re-reading... For the first time, I feel happy that a book is out of print.	2002-08-06
US	37679860	R22Q90X3KIO3SQ	0140374493	112313982	An Old-Fashioned Girl (Puffin Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Very lovely story	We just read this aloud in our family. It had been several years since I last read it, and it was good to make acquaintance with it again. I had forgotten a lot of things, but at the same time I hadn't. I guess mostly I had forgotten about Mr Sydney and his role in the story. I remember when I was younger I thought the last chapter was way too sappy but reading it this time I didn't find it so bad.<br />Basically it's just a story about Polly, a poor-ish country girl, who goes to the city to visit Fanny, a rich girl. Fanny has a sister and brother, Maud and Tom, and her family is generally unhappy. Polly is a very sweet girl and brings sunshine to light the miseries of rich life. Later she returns to the city and becomes a music teacher and falls in love with a guy whose name I shall not reveal... Anyway. It's a good story with a load of good common sense and practical advice that should be more taken today. It's not at all outdated... it's the people in our modern world who are outdated...<br />Read this book and then read other LM Alcott books. She really does know how to write with such feeling.	2002-08-05
US	37679860	RP8YPDFU315UP	0517189542	592774530	Little Women (Children's Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I think I am qualified to review this book	I've only read it fifty or more times. At one time in my life I read it through and started right over again at the end. I could recite large portions of it, as well as the table of contents.<br />I first read this when I was about eight. I didn't understand it at all. Re-read it when I was a few years older and couldn't live without it. My grandma sent me a copy which I later replaced with a better one (the old version of the Children's Classics series) and I passed my first copy on to another LW admirer.<br />I've always enjoyed this book. I remember being thrilled when I was fifteen like Jo is at the beginning of the book. I always liked Jo best... because I felt I was very like her. I've always liked to write. But then the artist in Amy appealed to me as well. I always loved Beth also and her dolls and cats. Meg was the only one I never felt I could relate to... later on though I re-read the book after a long absence from it and Meg's character seemed much more interesting. There's a charming supporting cast in these pages too... Laurie, John, and the Bhaer... Hannah... Aunt March...<br />I like the Pilgrim's Progress theme of the first half of the book. I think it's so nice that these were four girls who really wanted to do right... and went to the right place for help - the little Books Mother gave them under their pillows... There is humour and sadness here, much reality, and plenty of charm. I always appreciated the simple but profound style of Louisa May Alcott - it bears up under so many readings very well. It's been about a year since I last read it... I think it's time to pull it off the shelf again.<br />I get a strange feeling that this review is a bit scattered. But if you've gotten the idea that I love and recommend this book, it serves its purpose.	2002-08-05
US	37679860	R27YDNIKWNPGQ8	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Miserable [People]	I read this first last March/April. Got it from the library. I thought it was a very good story. Then at a friend's house I watched a French movie of the book from 1935. It took me several sittings to watch it because it was REALLY long, but suddenly a lot of things clicked and I realised I'd missed a lot in the story, so I went and bought a copy of the book to re-read. A friend sent me a tape of the musical too but I'll review THAT separately.<br />Over the past six months I've been reading the book again. And what I have to say... is this...<br />It IS a very long book. Incredibly detailed. Victor Hugo tends to wander off on tangents... about Waterloo, the slang of the streets, a fanatical order of nuns, or various types of people you encounter in the city. But if you can keep your head above that deep water, which isn't hard if you're paying attention, the parts involving the main characters are unbelievably good.<br />Jean Valjean is a released convict who, through the help of a priest, devotes the rest of his life to God and helping others. He is one of the most unselfish, loving characters I have ever encountered in literature. By no means perfect, but a wonderful man. He becomes mayor of a town, using a different name, and meets Fantine, a young woman who has a child staying in a different town. She is very poor and sacrifices her hair, her teeth, and finally herself to get money to pay for the child's keep. When she dies, Jean Valjean promises to take care of her child. After a series of unfortunate events, he is finally able to keep that promise. He finds Cosette at the inn where her mother had left her and takes her away with him.<br />This is a very powerful, moving story, particularly when read quickly instead of over the course of six months. I recommend it. It is a fascinating look into the soul, a study of several very different characters, and historically informative too... so read it and be moved and enlightened.	2002-08-05
US	37679860	R1J01SBSRWX08U	0879100362	979736969	Harpo Speaks!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A glittering autobiography	I was at Borders looking over the section of movie-related books and saw this one on the shelf. I remember hearing about it a long time ago and idly wondered what it was like. Recently I've watched several Marx Brothers videos, one a documentary, and found it pretty interesting even if they were a pretty nonsensical bunch. Harpo is definitely the favourite.<br />Anyway, the sparkling, straightforward humour of Harpo's writing style hooked me right away and I got the book from the library a few days later. Harpo doesn't talk only about show business. In fact, he doesn't talk about it much at all, in comparison with all the other stuff he has to say. He spends a third of the book talking just about growing up in New York City before he moves on about his friends and what they did together, about his trips to Russia and France, so forth, so on, with bits about show business scattered throughout.<br />This is a wonderful book and I recommend it even if you don't care a bit about the Marx Brothers - it's still fascinating!	2002-07-26
US	37679860	R3QA5O7YEKA7AO	1556611110	946612537	Heart of the Lonely Exile (An Emerald Ballad #2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	My least favourite of the series, but still four stars	This book is really full of little details that blossom out into nice bits of plot in the remaining three books of the series. It introduces almost all the rest of the main characters that the rest of the epic revolves around - Patrick Walsh the cad, who merits no further description here; Aunt Winifred, married twice, widowed twice, and still gorgeous going on sixty; Sandemon, Morgan's Negro servant, who is I think one of the best people in the book - so kind and longsuffering; Finola, a beautiful girl who doesn't talk a bit; and Aine, a scruffy little waif from Belfast. Maybe some others too that I've forgotten about. The main thrust of this book, I believe, is to set the stage for the rest of the books - to get Nora and Michael's marriage question settled, match up Evan and Sara with appropriate spouses, paralyse Morgan to keep him from getting into trouble. Also establishes Tierney's character a little better. But enough about that - you just need to read the book. Definitely read the first book, Song of the Silent Harp, before this one, because although you can just read this one, SotSH gives you more insight on what has happened beforehand, thus making it easier to follow the characters and the twists and turns of the plot.<br />I enjoy this one but I don't think I have read it as much as the other four simply because I can't deal with Evan's stuttering sappiness very well. Nora also turns into a mush-pot of sentiment, and I don't like her nearly as much from here on as I did in the first book. Same for Evan.<br />Well, I think I've said enough for now. I hope I have sparked your interest at least a bit in this grand and glorious saga of the Irish.	2002-07-11
US	37679860	R21BZ5IPID49KP	1556618603	414043651	Masquerade (Portraits Series #11)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Why is it called Masquerade?	I read this several months ago and I can't remember now why it has this title. I'm sure there was some significance... Anyway, while this isn't as good as the Emerald Ballad series (which I think is B.J. Hoff's masterpiece), it was very good and I hated to put it down. Yes, it is the typical story - Girl plunges into unknown danger and Handsome Man comes along and pulls her out of it - but I thought it was well written and interesting.	2002-07-11
US	37679860	R2P52A4V9IFDAA	0520212223	950169316	Hitchcock on Hitchcock: Selected Writings and Interviews	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very good reading	Yes, some of it dragged a bit. But overall I found it very interesting indeed. There was a chapter on the making of \\"Rope\\", as well as a speech Hitchcock made at a dinner which is worth buying the book for. His sense of humour is very humourous. It was fascinating to read all the things he had to say about filmmaking and how to please the audience. I read it straight through except that once I jumped ahead and read the chapter on Rope, but it's more the type of book where you read a chapter here and another there - whatever interests you at the moment. I thought it very good and I recommend it.	2002-07-11
US	37679860	R20J2VUOJUJAA6	1556611129	5980063	Land of a Thousand Dreams (An Emerald Ballad #3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Third Installment	I had forgotten I wrote the other review on here. A long time ago, that was. It's so wordy and descriptive and sparkling with life and vitality, too. So I'm going to try to do this book more justice, now that I've had more practise writing reviews.<br />I believe this book is the fullest of tragedy and melodrama of the five in the series, and at the time I wrote that other review it was my favourite book of all. When I think of this book, I think primarily of Morgan, Finola, and the rest of the clan in Dublin, because most of the action really takes place there. Occasionally you cut back to New York City for a dose of Nora's, &quot;When am I ever going to have a baby, sweetheart?&quot; or &quot;Sara, darling, you will take down your hair just for me!&quot; It must be that I didn't read the New York episodes as often and they aren't implanted in my mind as the Dublin ones are.<br />In New York, Nora is married, Michael is engaged, and Tierney is working for a crime boss. In Dublin, Morgan is still trapped in the wheelchair. There is no miracle cure here, unfortunately. A Nun (capital N) named Sis. Louisa and a wolfhound named Fergus join the staff at Nelson Hall. Finola becomes the victim of unfortunate circumstances in the red light district and is brought to live at Morgan's house while she recovers, and her &quot;wicked woman&quot; friend Lucy comes along. I think somebody dies too, but I won't say who. Oh, and I think Nora finally was going to have a baby, too. Sandemon's deep, dark past is uncovered, Aine waits patiently to be adopted by Morgan, and so forth and so on. I love the part when there IS a miracle cure - not for Morgan, but for Finola - when she can suddenly talk again. It is a very incredible scene, perhaps a bit unrealistic, but perfect for fifteen or sixteen year old girls who dote on that kind of romantic dramatisation and swoon over it with their friends.<br />I shall say no more of the wonders between the front and back covers of this book. You must read it yourself and find out all about it.must read it yourself and find out all about it.	2002-07-11
US	37679860	R3SQR4013QLCH3	1556611102	75950533	Song of the Silent Harp (An Emerald Ballad #1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This is only the beginning...	My friend got this book from the library when I was fourteen or so... I remember she kept telling me what a WONDERFUL, AMAZING book it was, and I could only think, \\"What on earth could be interesting about the potato famine?\\" She went on to read the rest of the series, and eventually through telling me more about the story, I became extremely interested, and when I read it it surpassed my wildest hopes. Of course, as I said, I was fourteen or fifteen, and girls that age live on this kind of book. I did live on it. I read it in two days and had to wait a whole week to meet my friend at church and get the second one from her.<br />But enough on how I found B.J.Hoff... The \\"Emerald Ballad\\" series is the best series of books that I think I've ever read. I don't get into romance novels like Grace Livingston Hill or Janette Oke or Beverly Whats-her-name that writes the Amish soap operas - I find them pretty predictable and tacky... With B.J. Hoff I never knew what was going to happen, and she made it all seem so REAL. I have read all five of the books in this series through at least three times, some I've read four or five times. This first one is the best, and could stand alone. It's after you read the second book that you know you HAVE to read the rest.<br />The story is, essentially, about three people - Nora Kavanagh, Michael Burke, and Morgan Fitzgerald. They were friends in childhood and went separate ways as adults. Nora married, Michael went to New York, and Morgan is a wandering dreamer who writes poetry, plays the harp, and is obsessively devoted to Ireland. It's been a while since I last read the book, so I'm not good with details, but this book has famine, fear, death, romance, white slavers, evil landlords, stuttering Englishmen, near hangings, one killing, one chase scene (what's a good story without at least one chase scene? That was Alfred Hitchcock's idea). But more than anything else, God is the centre of this story, providing all the central people with faith to pull through all the events and survive all the villains I mentioned above.<br />You should definitely give this book a try. Now that I'm a bit older, it's no longer the staple and sustenance of my literary life but I still enjoy them once in a while and fondly cherish the memories of my friend and I going ga-ga over Morgan.<br />Let me say a few words about Morgan. For one thing, he's a great big tall guy. For two other things, he has copper hair (which the sun can light ablaze) and green eyes. He's poetic and musical, as I said, and whenever he talks, his choice of words is fittingly dramatic, just as if it came straight out of those dear old melodramatic 30's movies. Personally I find that pretty neato. I would say that he was definitely my favourite character. My friend liked him a lot, but she liked Michael more. I learnt to like Michael a lot toward the fourth read-through, but Morgan remained my favourite.<br />Okay, I believe I have waxed descriptive enough. If you want to know more, go get this book!h faith to pull through all the events and survive all the villains I mentioned above. <br />You should definitely give this book a try. Now that I'm a bit older, it's no longer the staple and sustenance of my literary life but I still enjoy them once in a while and fondly cherish the memories of my friend and I going ga-ga over Morgan.<br />Let me say a few words about Morgan. For one thing, he's a great big tall guy. For two other things, he has copper hair (which the sun can light ablaze) and green eyes. He's poetic and musical, as I said, and whenever he talks, his choice of words is fittingly dramatic, just as if it came straight out of those dear old melodramatic 30's movies. Personally I find that pretty neato. I would say that he was definitely my favourite character. My friend liked him a lot, but she liked Michael more. I learnt to like Michael a lot toward the fourth read-through, but Morgan remained my favourite. <br />Okay, I believe I have waxed descriptive enough. If you want to know more, go get this book!	2002-07-11
US	37679860	RVO67RIRZIVH5	0385418132	271514463	The Art of Alfred Hitchcock: Fifty Years of His Motion Pictures	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The Book Every Hitchcock Fan Should Have	We got this book from the library and it's definitely one I want to own someday. Donald Spoto writes about almost every Hitchcock film individually from the 30's onward - he also has a chapter discussing the earlier films. He gives a synopsis as well as delves into the deeper meanings, symbolism, and significance of the films. There are portions of dialogue in several of the chapters, as well as many black and white photos from the films. I found the write-ups for almost all of the films to be very good and informative.<br />You definitely should read this book. It's not hard to read at all. I'd also recommend Mr Spoto's biography of Ingrid Bergman, &quot;Notorious&quot;. In relation more directly to Hitchcock, I would recommend &quot;Hitchcock's Notebooks&quot; by Dan Auiler as the second best Hitchcock book I've read.	2002-07-10
US	37679860	R2UUOSKT52XH1M	0380799456	782944099	Hitchcock's Notebooks: An Authorized And Illustrated Look Inside The Creative Mind Of Alfred Hitchcock	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Sorry, Brian from NYC - I have to differ!	It's obvious HE didn't appreciate the reality of this book. Sure, there are a lot of memos, telegrams, and transcripts of conversations - but it gives an inside look into the life of Hitchcock. Life and character are made up and discovered through little things like this. Sure, I agree that some of the side-by-side script and plot comparisons were a bit dull. But I read this entire book, so it can't have been THAT bad. The writing concerning Shadow of a Doubt is a bit hard to decipher, but who wants to read if there's no challenge to it? That chickenscratch masks some excellent writing.<br />As for the films discussed not being the classics Brian from NYC referred to, I get tired of hearing about Rear Window, Psycho, Vertigo exclusively. There is a wealth of information and books on those films - and I want to know about them all. So I was glad that this book dealt more with the less-discussed films. And I am a great fan of Marnie, so I read and re-read all that was said about Marnie.<br />This book isn't for someone looking for a fast-moving read. &quot;The Art of Alfred Hitchcock&quot; by Donald Spoto is an excellent one to begin with - not &quot;Hitchcock's Notebooks&quot;. Save this one until you know you like Hitchcock enough to appreciate it.	2002-07-10
US	37679860	R8LALRQH73OPK	0312207859	295646547	Alfred Hitchcock and the Making of Psycho	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Everything you ever needed to know about Psycho is in here -	This book is about as in-depth as you could want, but very interesting and good reading. Stephen Rebello begins at the beginning with a rather revolting chapter about the psychotic killer upon which Norman was later loosely based. (Don't let your children get a hold of that chapter!) He then talks about the man who wrote the book &quot;Psycho&quot;, and on to Hitchcock's discovery of the book and the making of the movie. There are chapters and sections on practically every aspect of the movie and the making thereof - cast, costumes, shooting, casaba melons, publicity, and the aftermath. At the end there is also a list of the entire cast and little paragraphs about what became of them after Psycho.<br />This book is very good if you are a fan of either Psycho or Hitchcock in general, because in telling about Psycho the author tells a lot about Hitchcock as well.	2002-07-10
US	37679860	RZI0KNZ0XHKB6	0231126956	817274118	Hitchcock's Films Revisited	Books	3	7	18	N	N	Not bad	Robin Wood writes an excellent exposition on several of Hitchcock's later films in this book. I have to say though that I liked The Art of Alfred Hitchcock by Donald Spoto better, because it covers a wider range of Hitchock's films beginning in the 30's, whereas in this book Robin Wood discusses in depth only from late fifties or so onward. He had a very nice write-up on \\"Marnie\\", which I greatly appreciated. Much of the book discussed the homosexual angles of \\"Rope\\" and \\"Strangers on a Train\\", and I personally thought Mr Wood went a bit overboard there, since I don't see either of those films as very homosexual - particularly \\"Strangers\\". That aside, I would still recommend this book for anyone who is wanting to read lots of books on Hitchcock. But if you want one book that covers everything at least a bit, get Donald Spoto's book.	2002-07-10
