US	37696358	R3PTIHYAQZSTJ8	0976506602	485164533	Kevin Murphy Takes on the Father of Lies (Bk. 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Teenage Adventure in Ireland Delves into Folklore, Family and Fantastic Creatures	They say we're all \\"a wee bit Irish\\" on St. Patrick's day, and reading this book will color you a very deep shade 'o the green. Following fifteen year-old Kevin Murphy's adventures in Ireland brings the reader face-to-face not only with leprechauns and fairies, but also the scarier ghosts, banshees, and demons that inhabit authentic Irish folklore. Delving into legends much deeper than lucky shamrocks and pots of gold, Kevin finds himself in life-and-death struggles with forces that will appeal to sword & sorcery-loving teens, as a thrilling new challenge waits around every corner. Author M.J. Smith does a fine job of capturing the mood of a teenager whose parents don't \\"get\\" him, even when he embarks on a heroic secret life that follows in the footsteps of his Irish great-grandfather. This book covers a wide range of issues: sibling relationships, budding interest in girls, family heritage and roots to the old country. The vivid geographical descriptions of the Irish countryside, with its charming people and intriguing mythology, are bound to ignite teen readers' interest in the magic of the Emerald Isle!	2005-09-07
US	37696358	R289VJKHAN26US	1592799167	106113852	The Mayan Glyph	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Mayan archeological mystery turns into a medical thriller	Anyone who visits the Mayan ruins of Mexico and Guatemala is left with this question: What happened here?  Standing atop a stone pyramid, one imagines what these mysterious jungle cities would be like with a bustling population and wonders, why did they all disappear?<br /><br />Here's a book that combines an explanation of this archeological mystery with a modern day medical thriller, a fast-paced tale about a deadly virus unleashed at a Mayan dig site that threatens to wipe out humanity while our smart young heroes race around the Yucatan to find a cure. There's adventure, romance, science, and just the right amount of sex, drugs and violence. It's the perfect beach novel for a Caribbean vacation - or for reading in the backyard wishing you were on a Caribbean vacation.<br /><br />This book will appeal to a wide array of readers, from techie to touchy-feely. Think Andromeda Strain meets Against All Odds (and thinking cinematically makes sense, as it would make a great movie). The characters are well-drawn and engaging, from bumbling Mexican cops and mercenary thugs to dashing treasure hunters and brilliant scientists. Author Larry Baxter brings believability and humanity to the entire cast, as he weaves a suspenseful, edge-of-your-seat tale that's exciting and informative. Both a trip back in time and a glimpse of a frightening possible future, The Mayan Glyph is a wild ride indeed.	2005-08-10
US	37696358	R1BS563ITJDZFD	0963925091	434313849	The Iran contradictions	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A New Iran Contra Conspiracy Theory	Abuse of military power, murder and mayhem, crooked government agents, and a U.S. President on the verge of impeachment. Just another day in Washington, D.C., right? But the Iran-Contra scandal occurred in the 1980's at the height of the Reagan Administration's power and popularity. Was the President nearly taken down as a scapegoat? Was he a power broker or a pawn? Twenty years later, Iran-Contra remains the most intriguing, unsolved mystery of twentieth-century U.S. politics, and the identities behind it are still a secret.<br /><br />Tightly woven around actual events, The Iran Contradictions brings the scandal to life in a flurry of violence and international intrigue, as author and retired Army officer James Scott tells the tale in heart-stopping fashion, letting the tension build with each new betrayal and breakthrough. His sultry women, lethal hit men and their high-tech tools of destruction are worthy of James Bond and \\"M.\\" The book's hero, ex-CIA agent Ed Holloway, is a hard-boiled \\"consultant\\" with a steel-trap mind and a soft heart, and his loyalty to the President costs him the lives of his best friends -- and nearly his own.<br /><br />Classic spy novel backdrops of Washington, Geneva, and the French Riviera are spiced up by a gritty flashback to the fall of Saigon, resurrecting its sights, sounds and smells with intense realism. The plot twists and turns while the characters double and triple-cross each other, until it all crashes together at the end with only a few left standing. The Iran-Contradictions provides a new perspective on the arms-for-hostage deal and the men and women involved. Scott's premise turns conventional explanations of the affair upside down, while offering a thoroughly entertaining read.	2005-06-08
US	37696358	R5SR5K80LWWDN	0972899219	919176136	Texas Justice: The Legacy of Historical Courthouses	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A big, stylish book about Texas law  men and women	Texas is the largest state in the continental U.S., and it also has big vistas, big ideas -- and some very big personalities. From Jim Bowie at the Alamo to George W. Bush at the State Capitol, Texans take their freedom and justice seriously. Since the days when early settlers needed protection from hostile Indians and warring Mexicans, Texas lawmen have risen to the occasion. They may not carry six-guns anymore, but they still loom large in the legal landscape.<br /><br />Here's a book featuring many of the biggest and boldest Texas justice-keepers, lawmen and women, and the buildings in which they work. The grand courthouses of Texas's 254 counties represent some of the finest examples of Art-Deco and Beaux-Arts architecture in America. Both stylish and informative, the book brings together the people, the buildings, and the great stories they both have to tell.<br /><br />Like her previous books, TEXAS WOMEN and TEXAS MEN, sixth-generation Texan author Martana highlights the people of her State with an intimacy that brings their personalities and their stories to life. Nearly 100 counties are represented, and each has its own colorful story, conveyed by one of its most colorful citizens.<br /><br />Sure to find a place on every coffee table in Texas, this unique project is a fitting tribute to the some of the shining stars of the Lone Star State.	2005-03-10
US	37696358	R2RQRRAQTMYND1	1932881018	71759014	Starting Something: An Entrepreneur's Tale of Corporate Culture	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Surviving the Internet Boom and Bust with Idealism Intact	In 1996, when architect/designer/visionary hipster Wayne McVicker and a partner launched the healthcare website, Neoforma.com, he just wanted to live the life of a creative entrepreneur while helping make the world a better place. He soon realized that he'd climbed aboard a careening, billion-dollar roller coaster ride.<br /><br />This is a story of survival in the Silicon Valley fast lane, told with honesty, warmth and humor. As the Neoforma database of healthcare products and services grew, so did their e-commerce traffic and business potential - but they were tapped out. Thus began a parade of mentors, \\"angel\\" investors, and venture capitalists who expected tenfold pay-offs. Still insisting on playing by their own rules, the partners were slow to warm up to Valley start-up culture. McVicker says it took a long time to find making money an acceptable pursuit unto itself. But these were heady times. In 1998, they received a two million-dollar cash infusion, and were being called the \\"Amazon and Yahoo of healthcare.\\" There was no backing out now.<br /><br />Trapped in the role of an aggressive, ultra-competent entrepreneur, McVicker weathered every investor, customer and employee crisis as it arose. He struggled to balance his work and family life, while the business grew at breakneck speed. He began to compartmentalize the stress, lost the ability to communicate with his partner and his wife, and luckily, found help before his marriage failed and the company he'd so proudly nurtured was wrenched away from him.<br /><br />Follow the Neoforma saga with all its growing pains, as they buy up companies, merge with others, and launch their IPO. Watch the stock rise to $72 and see Wayne become a mega-millionaire. Listen to the bubble bursting and the market crashing, dropping the stock to $7 overnight. Through it all, McVicker strives to maintain the idealistic corporate culture of integrity and empowerment the company was founded on. In 2001, he'd \\"worked his way to the bottom,\\" created a new niche, and left Neoforma to launch a brand new venture.<br /><br />Don't miss this Internet fairy tale with profound lessons for business cultures of any size.o the bottom,\\" created a new niche, and left Neoforma to launch a brand new venture.  <br /> <br />Don't miss this Internet fairy tale with profound lessons for business cultures of any size.	2005-02-28
US	37696358	R2RAGUR2LISULV	0976242206	223060775	Moon Tides, Soul Passages	Books	5	13	15	N	N	The Magical Power of Moon Astrology	The act of holding a newborn infant heavenward in the moonlight, ala Kunte Kinte in the movie ROOTS, may seem somewhat outlandish today. But people throughout time have observed the dance of the Moon across the sky and its effect on human behavior and emotion. As it causes the ocean tides, so it affects our watery bodies, and lunar astrology influences both daily life and all of modern philosophy, psychology and religion.<br /><br />With this powerful book, author Maria Kay Simms helps readers reconnect with their moon astrology, explaining in great detail how our lives are influenced by the Moon and its phases and cycles, during what Simms calls our Soul Journey. As the Sun is said to affect our actions, the Moon's realm is the subconscious, and astrological techniques, meditation, and journaling will unlock doors to perception and increase self-awareness and faith in oneself.<br /><br />Enhanced by lovely moon-inspired poetry and vivid moon-goddess paintings, the book includes a CD-Rom with software for calculating personal astrological data, Moon phases for an entire year, and Moon cycles for life. Simms lists examples of the lunar life stories of notable women such as Eleanor Roosevelt and Lucille Ball.<br /><br />Life today is filled with ever-increasing challenges and constant change. Tapping into the magical power of the Moon and its cycles can bring great comfort and connect us to an ancient, uniting force, something everyone, everywhere has shared for all time. \\"As above, so below...As within, so without...As the Universe, so the soul.\\"	2005-02-22
US	37696358	R2NFD4FNCB2W50	1933014318	751925207	Who's Not Asleep?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Calming, Peaceful Refuge for Bedtime	Here's a bedtime story that will put readers right to sleep - and if you're the parent or grandparent of active toddlers, you'll understand that I mean this as high praise! With stunning simplicity and the heartfelt affection of a grandmother for her granddaughter, Shirley Hillard has written a masterpiece of calming force rarely found in today's action-obsessed world. Reminiscent of the classic \\"Goodnight Moon\\" in its Zen-like minimalism, each page features one character and a just few words, bringing a child's attention to a narrow focus. One by one, each of the animals falls into a peaceful sleep, leaving just one more character to join them - a centered and sleepy child. Especially now, with all the noisy distractions of modern life, parents need bedtime stories like this to \\"wind down\\" their kids to a more relaxed level. \\"Who's Not Asleep?\\" may well become such an island of peaceful refuge for your family at bedtime.	2005-02-21
US	37696358	R1I7QLYOXY7GX7	0975889133	84424832	Garden Voices: Stories of Women & Their Gardens	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Soulful Storytelling from the Spiritual Side of Gardening	When you think of a garden, what comes to your mind? Is it the vibrant colors of dahlias, zinnias, cosmos, and sunflowers? Or perhaps it's the luscious array of home grown vegetables just crying out to be harvested and cooked into something savory? Or, maybe it's the physical and spiritual cleansing that accompanies this sometimes arduous yet highly rewarding hobby...<br /><br />Ask author Carolyn Rapp what she thinks about gardens and you will likely discover many new meanings behind this simple but paradoxically complex activity. Rapp, a seasoned storyteller and gardener herself, was \\"seized with a compelling urge to dig in the earth and grow things\\" when her son went away to college. Twelve years have since passed and Rapp has learned much more about gardening than she ever expected, from twelve unique women who not only opened the gates to their gardens -- but also to their lives.<br /><br />Here are twelve inspiring stories from women who have built their lives around their gardens. From Sue's stone garden we learn how the physical nature of gardening helped her realize an innermost strength that helped her fight breast cancer. Through the lens of Michiko's camera we see ordinary vegetables transformed to images of passion and beauty. And, from Nancy, we learn how a garden can be a metaphor for marriage.<br /><br />The stories from these twelve women not only provide tips and tricks for gardening but also dig down to a deeper more soulful layer -- a layer beyond what is visible in the dirt. As spiritually fulfilling as a beautiful bouquet or a colorful harvest of vegetables, these stories will resonate in the minds and hearts of all gardeners.	2005-02-21
US	37696358	R1UW1MYRCC1QYW	0976111500	840752659	The Carny Kid: Survival of a Young Thief	Books	5	6	7	N	N	East L.A. Story: Rising Above the Projects of Los Angeles	We seldom hear the life stories of people like Kenny Kahn, because people like Kenny usually don't live long enough to TELL their stories. Fortunately, this child of heroin-addicted, con-artist parents did survive, and he shares his tale with a frankness and humor that belies the hardship he experienced. It was the late Fifties in booming, optimistic America, and gangs, ghettos and junkies seemed an unlikely development in sunny southern California. But this was the harsh reality of the only Jewish teenager in the Ramona Gardens projects of East L.A.<br /><br />Virtually on his own from age five, and living by his wits and creativity, Kenny found safe havens from a roach-infested home and gang-ridden neighborhood in school, library, sports - even Hebrew confirmation classes. Afraid to seek help from the authorities but in constant fear of his parents' raging addiction and neglect, he found outlets for his pent-up aggression on the football field and his thirst for affection with neighborhood girls.<br /><br />Kenny sees it all: carnies, gang members, and people of every class, color and circumstance, with colorful names like Horseface Joe and No-Sox Bob. He learns about humanity from the bottom up, discovering that human goodness exists at every level -- sometimes in the most unexpected places. His perseverance and tolerance are fully tested during a serious bout with polio and a grueling rehabilitation period to regain his ability to walk. The battleground of his childhood years had prepared him well, and he fights to succeed and graduate at the top of his class. Today he's a prominent defense attorney who has helped bring justice to the lives of immigrants, minorities and indigents.<br /><br />This book is a testimonial to gritty determination and personal achievement, by a classic American \\"self-made man.\\" A promised second book will cover Kenny's college years in Berkeley, California, smack in the middle of the Vietnam-era social/sexual revolution. I look forward to the next leg of this incredible journey.k forward to the next leg of this incredible journey.	2005-02-15
US	37696358	R2CBJCVB3Q56WU	0972533117	411171641	Man Who Was President for a Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Inspiring, slice-of-life stories of past U.S. Presidents	In the style of his first book, AMERICAN COUNTRYSIDE (and his syndicated radio show of the same name), author McCrea brings keen perception and homespun wit to an exploration of the lives and times of past U.S. presidents. Like a modern-day Charles Kuralt traveling the country gathering stories about interesting people and places, he visited 15 different States to find out about all of the presidents from Washington to Truman. He even searches out the inside scoop on David Rice Atchison, the chairman of the Senate who served as President for one day, and activist/clairvoyant Victoria Woodhull, the first woman to run for President. At often obscure and out-of-the-way monuments, homes, museums and libraries, McCrea unearths fascinating and little-known tales, usually related by curators and docents with great knowledge and passion about their subjects.<br /><br />Yes, history often repeats itself in presidential politics, such as the one-electoral vote victory by Rutherford B. Hayes in 1876, when a controversial recount occurred in - you guessed it - Florida. Another striking coincidence is the plethora of presidential activity in this year's most important \\"Swing State\\" - there are some 16 monuments and attractions celebrating the seven U.S. presidents who were born in Ohio.<br /><br />McCrea brings an old-fashioned respect to the office of the president - refreshing in light of today's cynical outlook on politics - treating the presidency as something we should all revere and look up to. He points out a lesson to be learned from a significant moment in each president's life and times, something that can inspire us even today. McCrea's great talent is finding the essence of human dignity in both the humble farmer and the holder of the highest office in the land - and telling their stories with equal enthusiasm.	2005-01-31
US	37696358	R1LRL1YV47KY4N	0975489615	853723933	Making Right Turns in Your Relationship: How Couples Work Together to Create Change, Enhance Intimacy & Strengthen Communication	Books	5	1	1	N	N	With the proper tools we can make changes happen.	With a realistic understanding that change is difficult, author Myron Lewis offers this no-nonsense, straightforward approach to relationship building. As an active member of the relationship rescue squad (I was divorced in '03 and remarried in '04), I can truly say this is the best couple's self-help book I've seen - and I've seen dozens.<br /><br />Using a blend of Zen and Behavior Modification, Lewis asks couples to create a \\"relationship vision,\\" a picture or movie of how we want to see ourselves together. Having such a vision to refer to helps us identify when we're off track and provides a model to hold ourselves accountable to. He stresses the need to keep the relationship a priority by setting aside time and reinforcing positive behaviors, and asks readers to list daily, weekly, monthly and yearly activities to continue or start doing together. Such lists are found throughout the book, but they are simple to understand and easily completed, unlike the more complicated workbook-style exercises found in similar books.<br /><br />Accomplishing these simple but gratifying tasks helps battle the number one relationship killer: lack of communication. Even MEN should respond to this logical, step-by-step approach! In plain-spoken style, Lewis explains the characteristics of dependence, independence, and interdependence (test question: which is better?) and gives sample interactions to illustrate ways to create and reinforce the latter. He explains the importance of achieving emotional awareness and clarifies how rules in a relationship are choices that need to be made and negotiated. Communication + understanding = problem solving for positive change. All of us want to feel appreciated, valued and accepted, and this book is the perfect tool for bringing that to our relationships.	2005-01-24
US	37696358	R2DSZDXSBKMCT8	0971714827	119837402	Money Shot	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Mid-Life Male Cinderella Story	How would your life change if you had one shot at a 3-point basket worth a million dollars? When forty-something ad exec Alan Nichols gets such a chance, it sets off an avalanche of mid-life change during which he'll face his core doubts, shortcomings and fears. With engaging and witty prose, author Rouff takes us through a month in the life of the self-effacing Nichols, who tosses his cellphone out the car window and embarks on a journey we all long for: living life on our own terms. Inspired by his own pride and the headstrong women in his life, this loveable Everyman lays it on the line, knowing that win or lose, he's playing it his way. Many life lessons are learned, as layers of doubt fall away and leave only the crystalline moment of truth: a man, a ball, and a hoop twenty feet distant - the Money Shot.<br /><br />It's a feel-good book with just enough locker room humor and sexiness, set in Sin City itself, Las Vegas. Rouff explores concepts of destiny, luck, and how we must watch for signs, take chances, and set our own rules. There's a perfect balance of family values and trash talk, enough female yin and to offset the male yang, and a suspenseful surprise ending to give a wide range of readers a rollicking, thoroughly enjoyable read.	2005-01-24
US	37696358	R2O92FFTP88JS9	0975964909	720650209	Professor Angelicus Visits the Big Blue Ball	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Inspiring kids to become "sharlings" of the Earth	Living a seemingly normal life in a normal town, young Zak, his dog Ziggy, and his best friend Ivy are suddenly greeted by a strange and unfamiliar character named Professor Aquius Botanicus Angelicus. Stranger still, the professor has arrived on planet Earth in search of the pure water he needs to fuel his spaceship. One would think that on a planet that is 70% water this would be easy...however, Professor Angelicus and the children discover that finding pure water on a planet subject to ever-increasing pollution by humans is not that easy. <br />And so the journey begins, as the crew searches for pure water in lakes, oceans, and rainforests. Along the way the children meet and request help from the most unlikely characters: a talking French butterfly, King Crab, Dolphin, and an evil monster that morphs into its victim's greatest fear. By stating pertinent facts about our environment and \\"teaching without preaching,\\" author L.B.B. Ward does an excellent job of interpreting relevant scientific and social topics. Covering natural history, biology, pollution, war, peace, respect, and community involvement, Ward explains how to become guardians or \\"sharelings\\" of the Earth. The author's personal closeness to nature, humanitarian spirit, and gentle voice provide a most needed call to action with this imaginative and clever new adventure novel.	2005-01-17
US	37696358	R2T2X6AZHCVHPZ	1592980821	958533469	Room For J: A Family Struggles With Schizophrenia	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An amazing story of hope and of the power of parental love.	Mom, Dad and three healthy kids - the Hanson family seemed about as well-adjusted and All-American as it gets -- until that day the dreaded phone call came, inferring that their youngest son Joel, away at college, was having some sort of mental breakdown. During the ten years since then, the Hansons' lives have been turned upside-down and thrown into a battle with both Joel's schizophrenia and the flawed and frustrating American mental health system.<br /><br />Author Dan Hanson says writing the book was a form of self-therapy, but it's also a generous gift to readers, especially those with family or friends dealing with mental illness. Sharing such a personal and trying situation is an act of courage, especially his indictment of our mental health system and society's need to subjugate and medicate every person that doesn't fit into its recognized definition of \\"sanity.\\" Hanson pleads for better treatment of the mentally ill, many of whom have fallen through the cracks of a transition from huge state-run institutions to community-based care.<br /><br />\\"Implying that we rely too heavily on medication-based treatment programs, Hanson suggests teams made up of a social worker, psychiatrist, therapist, and trained support person, all the while recognizing the funding and staffing difficulties involved. He also explains convincingly how we need to expand our definition of \\"normal\\" and give the mentally ill the respect they deserve. Even though the Hansons live in constant fear of an eruption of Joel's psychosis - he believes he is the Messiah and ruler of the Universe - they learn to accept Joel as he is, and also how to cope with their own guilt and feelings of helplessness.<br /><br />Hanson has written a heart-wrenching but lucid plea for better treatment of our mentally ill. It is also a love story between a father and son, by a man who cares so much and loves so deeply that he is willing to overcome fear, doubts and societal pressures to learn, grow, and evolve spiritually from the experience. It's an amazing story of hope and of the power of parental love.volve spiritually from the experience. It's an amazing story of hope and of the power of parental love.	2005-01-14
US	37696358	R3Q01TDQPGB94G	1896232043	77926715	Dream: A Tale of Wonder, Wisdom & Wishes	Books	5	11	12	N	N	We overcome our fears by believing in ourselves	This grand project is a potent mix of quotes, concepts and images sure to inspire childlike awe in readers of all ages. As its subtitle suggests, 'Dream' contains three of the most important features of any book for the young and young at heart: wonder, wisdom and good wishes. Showcasing the work of 15 highly talented artists, each magical illustration is meant to stir the imagination and a sense of wonder. Along with her own poetic text, the author includes words of wisdom from some of the world's greatest philosophers, innovators, and leaders. The emotions these pages evoke make the act of wishing come naturally, and readers are encouraged to do just that, by hunting for the star hidden in each illustration -- and making a wish when they find one. But the author also delivers a reality check, touching on how we must all deal with fear and doubt, and then describing the process of overcoming our fears by believing in ourselves and acting boldly. Like most great children's books, this one opens opportunities for adults and children to find connections to the self, our world, and the circle of life. A resource page and interactive website encourage further observation, discussion and activities. Here is a serious philosophy beautifully delivered in a 40-page picture book -- one that promises dreams at any age can come true.	2004-12-15
US	37696358	R2QOF6QBNGB5V	0972395458	326597128	Going Deeper: How to Make Sense of Your Life When Your Life Makes No Sense	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Think with your heart and love with your mind	This books takes on the age-old question, \\"What is the meaning of life?\\" in a most intelligent and insightful way. Author Jean-Claude Koven illuminates and expounds upon the nature of consciousness with this fictional account of a week in the life of one man and his search for the Great Unknowable Mystery. It begins in the week following 9/11, when our hero Larry and his very special adopted puppy head to Joshua Tree National Monument to commune with nature. Larry gets more than he bargained for, as encounters with a talking a raccoon, a juniper tree, and even a million-year-old rock shatter his view of reality and transform his previous beliefs about Heaven and Earth.<br /><br />Koven has traveled the world seeking answers to the great spiritual mysteries, studying mystics from Lao-Tse to L. Ron Hubbard and many lesser-known cosmic searchers. He weaves many of these ideas into Larry's encounter, expressing a sense of urgency about the need to cure the imbalance we now face on Earth, and describing how we must rise to new heights of awareness and compassion. Larry's enlightenment is aided by spiritual icons like the Medicine Wheel and a native shaman, visions of soaring eagles and dramatic sunsets, voyages through crystal caves and virtual galaxies, and frightening visits to his own darkside. This dramatic cosmic trip eventually brings him back to the simple truths of surrender and humility, and the underlying importance of \\"being present.\\" Unlike most self-help guides, Koven promises no quick fix, and urges us to approach the quest for awareness with hard work, and sense of humor, and thorough, meditative introspection.<br /><br />Are we due for an apocalypse? Is the world out of control? Whether it is or not, this book brings much relief by offering ways to \\"be in the now\\" and to \\"think with your heart and love with your mind.\\" All our problems, from war, to greed, to addictions, can't be solved with pills or money or power. The answers -- and the conscious will to save ourselves and our planet -- can only be found by \\"going deeper\\" within.s will to save ourselves and our planet -- can only be found by \\"going deeper\\" within.	2004-12-14
US	37696358	R3OIMWL9MDWCXN	0974861707	744793262	Fire under the Moon (Originally "Wombmates")	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lost a sibling? Never "get over it," but do "get on with it"	Wombmates, according to the author, are living beings emerged from the same essence, irretrievably bonded, inseparable even by death. This bond is tested to its limits when the author's younger brother John, the gregarious vagabond who hitchhiked to a Colorado mountain town in the early seventies and never left, is diagnosed with stage four throat cancer.<br /><br />So begins this compelling story of the eight-month battle for John's life, as Jane and her sister Ann come together to care for their \\"pesky little brother.\\" She describes the grueling drives across the country, the frightening operations, the frustrations of feeding tubes, medications, and the nagging fear that John will never recover. When his battle does end she's relieved that it's over, but also wishes there could be more of that tragic but precious time, when the focus was so crystal clear and she felt so utterly alive.<br /><br />What initially destroyed her faith unexpectedly gave it new life. Samuels speaks eloquently of circles; how sons reunite with departed, misunderstood fathers; how families and friends are brought together; how the grief of loss buries us but can also resurrect us. A grief counselor herself, Samuels reexamines how she teaches people, now that she is dealing with the relentless pain of losing a sibling.<br /><br />She decides there can never be closure to losing a wombmate, but one can get better at living with it. Since memories are most of what we are, we must learn to take them with us and move on. The hard part, says Samuels, is turning the memories of loss into something good, rather than turning them negatively inward onto ourselves, or outwardly onto others. Grief is much like the mighty Platte River she has driven along so many times, unstoppable and always flowing, sometimes so near and sometimes almost forgotten, its return always a surprise - and always just around the next bend.	2004-12-02
US	37696358	R2W3FWVELEBUMJ	0976131811	458261202	A Big Beaked, Big Bellied Bird Named Bill	Books	5	3	3	N	N	You'll have Big Fun reading this Book about Bullies	If you love to read books aloud with kids, and enjoy the physical act of reading and sounding out words, this one's for you. The text follows the title's lead, adding a big batch of fun-to-pronounce \\"B\\" words: Big Bellied Bill moves to Bird Bluff; he risks the dangers of big cats in the bushes, and finds friends named Brendon, Bob, and Bartholomew. Together, this band of buddies deals with a big, bad bunch of bullies, and learns important lessons about friendship and standing up for one another. The illustrations are as fun as the dialogue, and it all adds up to a great way to inspire kids to read and to learn about interacting with friends. Bravo!	2004-11-30
US	37696358	R12UOQYM9XZ2NN	0975894307	95989787	Luke Carter and the Sword of Kings	Books	5	8	17	N	N	Typical teen enters a magical realm of swords and fireballs	Here is an action-packed drama filled with emotional turmoil, deception, and revenge, during which family conflicts get resolved by bloody battles filled with screams and explosions. Sounds like typical household with teenagers, right? Luke Carter's clan of witches and warlocks may be a little out of the ordinary with their abilities to fly, cast spells, and throw balls of flame, but in many ways they face the same problems of today's typical family. There's never a dull moment, as heroic swordplay, rapid-fire dialogue, and adrenaline-rush action will keep the teen reader engaged. Twelve-year-old Luke is a reluctant hero, an American-style Harry Potter with \\"slacker\\" attitude and guts. Better yet, he's far from perfect - he's impatient, makes lots of mistakes, and learns as he goes. The book's author A.J. Ensor never talks down to teen readers and doesn't overdo the Celtic references and ties to Merlin and Camelot - most of the action takes place in the Florida Keys and upstate New York There are portrait paintings that talk, people that morph into animals, and a magical forest that's home to dinosaurs and gryphons. It's got everything a young sword & sorcery fan could ask for, including some loose ends that will surely require a sequel.	2004-11-19
US	37696358	R20V8Q2CFTAW1L	0972598812	675250148	Resumes from Hell: How (Not) to Write a Resume and Succeed in Your Job Search by Learning from Career-Killing Blunders	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ridiculous Resumes Rescued from the Round File	Frustrated about today's shrinking job market? Having trouble finding a job that even requires submitting a resume (and doesn't require sporting a colorful uniform)?  Finding a good job requires education, experience, and a really good resume that stands out above the competition... That is, unless you're up against those who wrote the \\"Resumes from Hell\\" featured in this book of the same name, in which the authors expose hundreds of the most awkward, over-the-top, and downright hilarious resumes ever written. Reading them will help you improve your own resume, and it will give you hope. Just don't do what these people did! Whether they listed too many hobbies, made frightening political or religious statements, or simply gave \\"too much information,\\" these writers bare their souls in hopes of landing a job. With previous experience such as \\"perishable manager\\" and \\"fanny pack designer,\\" or qualifications like \\"specializing in the impossible,\\" \\"Have Passport & Don't Use Tobacco or Firearms,\\" and \\"Enjoy Dim Sum, Chai and other good things in life,\\" you really wish you could sit in on their job interviews. My favorite chapter is \\"Graphics from Hell,\\" featuring undecipherable charts, cheesy icons and clip art that some misguided souls used to spruce up their resumes. As professional job recruiters, the authors have seen it all, and their comments and examples prove unequivocally that poetry, spirituality, ranting, bragging, and sloganeering have no place in your resume. This book proves that what you DON'T say is often as important as what you do say.	2004-11-15
US	37696358	R203D7V51770VM	0975964909	720650209	Professor Angelicus Visits the Big Blue Ball	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Inspiring Kids to become "Sharlings" of the Earth	Living a seemingly normal life in a normal town, young Zak, his dog Ziggy, and his best friend Ivy are suddenly greeted by a strange and unfamiliar character named Professor Aquius Botanicus Angelicus. Stranger still, the professor has arrived on planet Earth in search of the pure water he needs to fuel his spaceship. One would think that on a planet that is 70% water this would be easy...however, Professor Angelicus and the children discover that finding pure water on a planet subject to ever-increasing pollution by humans is not that easy.<br /><br />And so the journey begins, as the crew searches for pure water in lakes, oceans, and rainforests. Along the way the children meet and request help from the most unlikely characters: a talking French butterfly, King Crab, Dolphin, and an evil monster that morphs into its victim's greatest fear. By stating pertinent facts about our environment and \\"teaching without preaching,\\" author L.B.B. Ward does an excellent job of interpreting relevant scientific and social topics. Covering natural history, biology, pollution, war, peace, respect, and community involvement, Ward explains how to become guardians or \\"sharelings\\" of the Earth. The author's personal closeness to nature, humanitarian spirit, and gentle voice provide a most needed call to action with this imaginative and clever new adventure novel.	2004-11-10
US	37696358	R3ASW7TQ9WG8ZH	0974092606	788514002	Agent Orange	Books	5	1	1	N	N	E-Books: the Final Frontier	Here is a powerful little e-book and software package that boldly goes where no e-reader has gone before, with more gadgets than the Starship Enterprise. You can read text and/or listen to audio, both with easily adjustable controls, plus bookmarks, highlighters, search and print functions, all on one screen. Another bonus is Captain Kirk himself -- William Shatner -- who reads this action-packed, hard-core military thriller with his gritty, drill sergeant voice. The story itself is jammed with all the weaponry, fighting, intrigue and betrayal to please any war novel reader; the complex, highly-detailed plot will keep you guessing. The characters go through infantry, Special Ops, and SEAL-type mental and physical training; all manner of land, sea and aircraft -- even a submarine -- keep the mission moving. Like the Vietnam War itself, AGENT ORANGE includes elements of chaos, brutality and humanity. A unique addition to Vietnam-era literature -- and a great new way to experience it.	2004-11-10
US	37696358	RHNSDV8A8R2YP	0974953504	324021003	Embracing the Mystery: The Sacred Unfolding in Ordinary People and Everyday Lives	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Regaining our spiritual momentum	At the turn of the New Millennium, spiritual leaders around the world spread the message that the Family of Man had reached a higher level of consciousness, if only we'd open our hearts to it. This spiritual awakening crossed geographic, cultural and racial boundaries, and a palpable current of energy ran through our collective consciousness.<br /><br />Then the 9/11 attacks occurred, and everything changed. The human family was suddenly threatened by fears and anxieties as never before. Hatred has brought us to a dangerous and frightening precipice. How can we reclaim our \\"lost radiance?\\" Author Meredith Jordan, with twenty years as a psychotherapist and spiritualist, proposes that storytelling and listening to one another's stories is \\"a holy act\\" that can heal spiritual wounds and help us embrace life to its fullest. She urges us to have the courage to become what we should be - not what others want us to be - and to do the \\"psychic housecleaning\\" necessary to discover our true selves.<br /><br />Jordan's book is like spiritual comfort food - a big, warm, cozy quilt of heartwarming anecdotes and advice. The stories she tells and the questions she asks make us think - and reawaken hope in the midst of our fears. She points out how children can teach us to regain our trusting spirit and help us remember what we've forgotten. Be in the present moment, she says. Give thanks for small things. Have compassion for others. These are the things that will help us get beyond fear and inspire us to gently grow toward a deeper relationship with the sacred mystery many people call God.	2004-10-29
US	37696358	R3LL8BE09JKXSQ	0615125557	218610486	That Place	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A graceful meditation on losing a loved one	To read this book is to be soothed by words and images that waft across the pages like a soft, summer breeze. The gently rendered watercolor illustrations calm the eyes and the poetic text eases the brain. With this meditation on grieving the loss of a loved one, author KD Larson explores how such a loss affects a person, to the extreme of changing their outlook on life and confusing their very identity. She explores unanswered questions about the afterlife, inspired by some the writings of Albert Einstein, explaining the power of love to heal and how it endures - even after we've left our physical bodies. Larson gives much credence to the comfort of nature and its healing powers: how the weather and the changing of the seasons heightens our senses; the majesty of the sun, the moon and the heavens; how we can lose our cares in the flowing water of a stream. Yes, nature's beauty is a good place to seek solace and to explore feelings about death and the Great Beyond. This book captures that notion with elegant grace, and leaves the reader renewed and inspired.	2004-10-27
US	37696358	R2GUD0KZXZ95BJ	1930859910	784473711	Our Political Systems	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Scathing Assessment of our Political Systems	So, you've finished Bill Clinton's book and you're ready for something completely different? Here's a political primer that everyone should read, written by a brilliant, angry Libertarian who feels that: American and British politicians have been wasting taxpayers' money for five thousand years; leaders of both the U.S. Democratic and Republican parties are under the control of a system of elite money handlers and power brokers; and that the System has created a suppressed, poorly educated class of constituents stuck in dead-end jobs or dependent on social welfare programs. Whereas Clinton's book marvels at the machinations of government, Dr. Krieg's book disgustedly condemns politicians and their actions. He considers our political system \\"beyond repair\\" and says he wrote this book to \\"expose and ridicule\\" the System he feels is now ruling America and the world. According to the author, the most prominent flaws in the system are the enormous financial benefits politicians receive and their subsequent interest in maintaining the status quo; lack of term limits and the need for campaign finance reform; and the fact that \\"he who controls the funds controls the shots.\\" Krieg warns that \\"idiotic\\" immigration policies have changed the influx from educated Europeans to illiterate blacks and South and Central Americans, and that these immigrants become the System's human fodder, helping to increase bureaucracy and eliminate the middle class. What can be done? Go back to the system our Founding Fathers designed, says Krieg. Shorten term limits, enact tort and campaign finance reforms, eliminate the IRS and institute a national 5% income tax. It's a compelling call to arms in this time of heightened patriotism. What could be more patriotic than to resist the scoundrels who've become \\"masters of us all?\\"	2004-10-12
US	37696358	R1EU81DAR2ZZ6E	1890627496	665958992	Helping Your Teenager Beat Depression: A Problem-Solving Approach for Families (Special Needs Collection)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Helping Teens and their Families Cope with Depression	Coping with a depressed teen is difficult for many parents to accept, but not dealing with it can lead to behavioral problems, the need for therapy or hospitalization - even the chilling but all-too-common outcome of suicide. Although they rarely acknowledge it, teens do greatly depend on their parents for support. Studies show that when parents are closely involved during therapy and professional treatment the results improve dramatically. This book supplies valuable information and advice, and outlines a concise, problem-solving plan of action that could make a big difference in kids' lives. The authors begin by explaining the difference between sadness and depression, relating real-life case studies of various types of depression, and including exercises and check lists to help readers make determinations and record progress. They continually stress the importance of family interaction and communication, describing the \\"family circle\\" concept and suggesting how to develop healthy patterns. Always stressing that families need to \\"label\\" and discuss depression, and that is nothing to be ashamed of, the authors give suggestions for coping with challenges that can occur at school and with friends. They also offer tips on medications and their affects, and how to deal with crises that may arise during treatment. This is an important, helpful book, especially in these fast-paced and confusing times. While debates rage about treatments and the safety of new anti-depressant drugs, this book stands out as a compassionate, valuable resource for parents and kids - some of whom are battling to survive.	2004-09-30
US	37696358	R3NH5O7820MDL3	0974644927	821095471	Passions and Patience: Fostering Earth's Future Through Unlikely Partnerships	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Environmental Passion with a Positive Attitude	Environmentalists are often passionate but seldom patient, so it's refreshing to find an environmental book written with a positive, upbeat attitude. After briefly stating that yes, the planet has been badly damaged by its human inhabitants, author Karen Roberts stops lamenting that fact and immediately begins describing some of the beneficial actions occurring around the world. Citing examples as familiar as Oregon and the Dakotas and as far-reaching as Nepal and Antarctica, the author takes readers on a world tour of earth-saving efforts by heroes of all kinds and representing very diverse cultures. Surprisingly, many of these crusaders are usually cast as villains on the environmental battlefield; here hunters, ranchers, developers -- even oil companies -- are working to protect the planet. As awareness of the fragility of our ecosystem grows, even some corporate and government hard-liners begin to realize the importance of concepts like alternate energy research, land trusts, public transportation, and slow-growth. This book delivers a message of hope and of encouragement that, with any luck, will be heeded by the planners, politicians, and power-brokers whose decisions and actions affect the quality of life on earth.	2004-09-22
US	37696358	RC2FD0Q9A0YUE	0974726001	970544765	Going Pro: Scholarships, Student-Athletes and the Money	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Going Pro or Going Broke?	In today's world of multi-million dollar sports contracts and product endorsements, it's the dream of millions of kids to one day \\"go pro.\\" In reality, less than one percent of high school athletes make it to professional sports. But what happens to the teenage superstars who forego a college education and turn pro, only to have their sports careers cut short by injury or unforeseen circumstance? Are young athletes being exploited by a system that generates millions of dollars at their expense? Big money can also bring problems to those who play well and thrive in their sport for years, as many fall prey to crooked managers, greedy family members, and untrustworthy friends. Author Donald Moss, a veteran sports journalist who left his newspaper job to travel the country researching this book, poses hard questions to athletes and their parents, teachers, coaches and agents. He acknowledges the complexity of the problem, pointing to the disparity of educational and socio-economic opportunities, questionable recruiting practices, and a TV audience hungry for the next Tiger Woods or Michelle Kwan. He laments the push by scouts and parents for kids to concentrate on a sports career, attending summer camps and often sacrificing a \\"normal\\" childhood. In this \\"just do it\\" society intoxicated by unlimited potential, sometimes \\"NO\\" is the best thing a young superstar can hear, says Moss. He champions the high school and college coaches and athletic directors who demand both scholastic and athletic excellence, and urges young people to utilize the safety net of a good education. What happened, he asks, to the days when kids played sports just for fun?	2004-09-13
US	37696358	R26AX1YRXJOK8X	0974878103	546210110	Starting Your First Business: Gain Independence and Love Your Work (American Dream Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Business Start-Up Book that's On the Money	Here's a business start-up book that truly \\"tells it like it is.\\" Even though it's part of The American Dream Series, author Jim Sapp \\"gets real\\" right away, urging new business starter-uppers to do some heavy soul-searching and personality assessment. Following your dreams is one thing, but owning and operating your own business certainly can't be done with a dreamy attitude. Business ownership isn't for everyone, says Sapp, especially not the indecisive, pessimistic, or otherwise faint of heart. He sprinkles the book with frank \\"Reality Checks\\" and warnings about the difficulties, stress, and need for careful research, planning and resource gathering. With suggestions like forming an advisory board, using SCORE (Service Corps of Retired Executives), and applying for SBA (Small Business Administration) loans, Sapp is all about using available resources and assistance, including his own products -- his [...] website offers many helpful documents and forms, including and a free Business Plan Checklist. Fully one third of the book deals with money -- raising, managing and controlling it. And that's a good way to sum up this excellent business how-to book: It's \\"on the money.\\"	2004-08-24
US	37696358	R109LDUQKNC2FX	1413428215	462869973	Booga	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Zen Flavored American Pie	Part road trip, part political manifesto, and part electric kool-aid acid dream, BOOGA is a wild ride down the back roads of author Hayes Brown's new utopian Woodstock Nation. Pulling together cultural icons like good ganga, hitchhikers, jam bands, and vehicles with morphing and cloaking abilities, this vision of the future reads like Kerouac on Ecstasy or Tom Robbins on herbal tea. Along the way, Hayes challenges the status quos of capitalism, consumerism, militarism, politics, religion, and mass media. Waxing nostalgic about the bygone days of Frisbee, dogs, grass and free love in the park, the book's plot climaxes at a world-championship boomerang tournament on the frozen tundra of Alaska. Enjoyment of this tasty piece of Zen-flavored American Pie is limited only by the reader's willingness to suspend reality. No more Grateful Dead or Phish concerts to attend? Reading BOOGA may get you by until the next Big Love-In.	2004-08-19
US	37696358	R1T20NTIJDDTA4	0970190786	3185821	We Share One World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Timely Plea for Sharing Our World in Peace	The concept of \\"One World\\" may sound clich&eacute;, but there are some basic precepts that can't be over-stressed, especially when it comes to teaching our kids about living together in peace. How well these lessons are taught may well determine the future of the planet! This book has a smile and a message of hope on every page, as a little boy travels the world in his daydream, visiting children from cultures around the world. A charming poem describes his trip though the geography, flora and fauna of each of the lands he visits. \\"We touch the wind\\" among the cranes and kites in Japan, \\"We smell the rain\\" in the threatened marshlands of Iraq, and \\"We taste the snow\\" with Laplanders in the Russian Arctic. All twelve visited regions hold examples of endangered indigenous people, animals or plants, sure to inspire meaningful discussions about the need for global cooperation and peace. Written and illustrated by two sisters from Ohio, it's a collaboration filled with love and hope for the world's children. The timely plea for peace -- and that we share and protect our world despite our cultural differences -- is one that becomes more important every day.	2004-08-16
US	37696358	R1FPLRR7M3A0YT	0974560316	78206166	The Dark Dreamweaver (The Remin Chronicles)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wizards and Butterflies; Friendship and Teamwork	For parents and children looking for the next BIG young adult epic fantasy, here's one with magic, suspense, and adventure -- with an entomological twist. What in the natural world could be more magical to children than the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a butterfly? Granted, it also includes dragons, a multi-headed frog and even a talking jellyfish, but the message is upbeat and stresses the importance of friendships and teamwork throughout.<br /><br />The story unfolds when a young boy named David discovers a wizard held captive in a monarch butterfly's body. David soon learns from the wizard, Houdin, that help is needed to stop the evil Thane, in the Dream World of Remin, from turning everyone's dreams into nightmares. As David is guided on an adventure of a lifetime he meets an odd assortment of characters and learns to use his inherent magical powers and courage, intelligence, and imagination to defeat the villain and -- even more importantly -- to confront and overcome his own fears. The scientific twist and creative wordplay make The Dark Dreamweaver much more than a story about a boy fighting an evil wizard. Also includes a glossary of resources and information about monarch butterflies.	2004-08-10
US	37696358	RQRVOANLFNYZ6	0875167977	525226141	The Mindful Hiker: On the Trail to Find the Path	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Zen and the Art of Hiking	Sometimes the most simple acts can be the most powerful. Author Stephen Altschuler elevates the act of hiking -- walking for pleasure while communing with nature -- to dizzying heights in this part how-to, part environmental manifesto, and part love letter to northern California's Point Reyes National Seashore. Altschuler considers this area where he does most of his hiking his friend -- the place where he spends time with God. Hiking its trails and vistas offers a feeling similar to other pastimes people become passionate about -- like yoga or fly fishing -- that allow them to become suspended in time.<br /><br /> Altschuler used his time hiking at Point Reyes to make sense of our tumultuous times and help him through divorce and midlife crisis. He points out the similarities between a hiking trail and a spiritual path, giving examples of Moses and Martin Luther King &quot;going to the mountaintop&quot; during their most important quests. The mountain trail mimics life, with its trailhead, forks, rises and dips, and eventually -- a summit. Altschuler urges us to use our senses of observation, to see, smell, and feel nature, &quot;by slowing down and seeing what is before us.&quot; He not only describes this lovely approach to life, but encourages us to participate, by adding questions and suggestions at the end of each chapter, inspiring readers to think, recall, journal and learn about ourselves and our world.<br /><br /> This is a modern day Walden that belongs in every hiker's backpack.	2004-07-22
US	37696358	R3L9224P1XPTDF	1879651351	14996615	Understanding Your Grief: Ten Essential Touchstones for Finding Hope and Healing Your Heart	Books	5	50	50	N	N	An Organized Approach to Dealing with Grief	Enduring the pain of losing a loved one is certainly among life's biggest trials, and there is no &quot;quick fix&quot; for dealing with the grief. Before you can solve a problem you must understand it, so it's helpful to have some expert assistance for such a big endeavor. This book offers a step-by-step guide through the process, answering tough questions, dispelling myths, and dispensing advice along the way. Dr. Wolfelt is a compassionate, experienced and knowledgeable voice who presents his approach to the grieving process logically and efficiently. Ten &quot;touchstones&quot; make up the pathway, labeled with words like dispel, embrace, recognize, and nurture. Taking an organized approach to something like grief might sound impossible, but it may well be a critical part of making it through a very difficult time.	2004-07-15
US	37696358	RVTUAD9ZVDZR9	0595279589	272930791	The Hundredth Woman	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Women discovering their inner strengths	In The Hundredth Woman Kate Green has uniquely crafted three goddess characters full of passion, drama, and beauty. They are real-life women enduring real-life battles. Well-written with a clearly defined plot, Kate's novel is much more than a book &quot;just for women.&quot; There is no hardcore male bashing -- only hardcore women discovering their inner strengths and how to use them -- powers the author experienced while traveling the world learning from indigenous female spiritual leaders. The story includes women confronting ghosts from the past, women learning how to rebuild their lives, and women trying to save the planet -- all entwined together in this highly spiritual life-changing novel.	2004-07-08
US	37696358	R38ISHL24R8L0Z	0972674411	686619143	A Love Foretold	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Passion and Magic in Chicago	This is much more than a romance between two human characters. Author DeYoung obviously has an ongoing love affair with the city of Chicago and its history, people and places. A Love Foretold celebrates the human spirit with all the magic, passion and possibility one feels in a vibrant city like Chicago, and her infectious enthusiasm and luscious descriptions makes you want to book a flight and go tap into it. From the dramatic opening scene in an 1800's Indian village to the final discovery that ties it all together, it's a wild, edge-of-your-seat ride. The characters are big, dramatic and beautiful, and when their passions finally erupt, the steam fairly rises from the page. There's life after death, love that spans generations, and human beings exhibiting spiritually-fueled powers. If you like a dose of magic with your romance, this book is for you.	2004-07-01
US	37696358	R3B3YWV2AVFA9A	0964697343	146587707	The Playmakers: Amazing Origins of Timeless Toys	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Joy of Toys	&quot;Toys are magical,&quot; begins the introduction to The Playmakers: Amazing Origins of Timeless Toys, and the book goes on to remind us just how true that statement is. And what reminders! They're all here: the Lincoln Logs, Slinkys, and Crayolas that turned kids into artists, architects and scientists, by inspiring them to use their imaginations and to play! Above all, this book reminds us how important it is to play, both with our imaginations and with each other. Many of the book's entries are games (Monopoly, Candyland, Twister) that inspire thoughts of the interactions these toys brought to our lives and the friendships they helped build. This is no mere listing of popular toys with pretty pictures -- it's a definitive look at 100 years worth of America's most important toys, with background information on the inventors including sketches, prototypes and trivia on their development and marketing. Author Tim Walsh was born on Christmas Day, and is game inventor and certified &quot;toy freak.&quot; Expertly photographed and affectionately written, this book does a wonderful job of expressing the &quot;joy of toys.&quot; From the first entry (Flexible Flyer) to the last (Beanie Baby), it's a delightful chronicle of America at play in the 20th century.	2004-07-01
US	37696358	R3LV3FDF175S66	1930419066	639398680	20 Ways to Track a Tiger	Books	5	3	3	N	N	IPPY Award Winner and a real treasure	This is an amazing collection of photos and a heartfelt plea to preserve tigers in the wild. Our Independent Publisher Book Awards judges were dazzled by the photography and the creativity of the presentation. It's the kind of awareness-raising nature book we need more of to help save the planet's endangered wild animals.	2004-06-24
US	37696358	R17AVK8TGN6JWM	0970998414	526097979	You Can Compete: Double Sales Without Discounting (Second Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wake-up call for the small business owner	Bob Phibbs takes running a small business seriously and he takes customer service VERY seriously. Best of all, he explains his principles well, without being condescending or preachy. This concise, well-organized book lays out the basics of \\"killer\\" marketing and customer service that can make your business stand out above the competition. YCC will light a fire under the complacent or discouraged business owner, as it provides a much needed motivational wake-up call for every independent business trying to stay afloat in corporate America.	2004-06-17
US	37696358	R1071QP3YNBXJF	1932560297	153165457	The Perfect Pitch:: The Biography of Roger Owens	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An All-American Story: Baseball, Mom and...Peanuts!	This is the kind of story we don't get enough of in America today. On the surface, it's about a poor California boy who grows up battling adversity and, through determination and showmanship, makes a name for himself as a Dodger Stadium peanut vendor. But it's also about the healing power of family and friendship, and the importance of faith and a positive attitude. This kind of life story is getting harder to find, as society gets more hectic and we get more and more insulated from one another. How refreshing it is to read about a man who dedicated his life to connecting with people -- by tossing them a bag of peanuts -- in the classic setting of the old ballpark. It may sound corny, but we'll miss it when it's gone. Books like this can inspire us to maintain values and traditions that are sadly slipping away.	2004-06-17
US	37696358	R3FWJHJ493DRG	1590581091	164589709	Unforced Error (Rep & Melissa Pennyworth Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hilarious Hullabaloo in the Heartland	Michael Bowen is a &quot;writer's writer.&quot; With smart, stylish prose he weaves together various aspects of modern pop-culture, from Reality TV to romance novels to Civil War battle reenactments. His characters are likeable, their conversations are lively, and when a gunshot rings out in the Kansas City library, you know you're in for a wild, bookish ride. It's all-hell-breaks-loose in the Heartland, over-the-top fun.	2004-06-08
US	37696358	RK0U7V67LOVZL	0972785507	904101067	The Day the Trash Came Out to Play	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Helping Kids become Environmental Activists	One of the best ways to teach kids lessons is to make them laugh -- and think -- by telling a story they can picture themselves in. With humorous and charming artwork and rhyme, The Day the Trash Came Out to Play describes a case of littering gone wild, as all the trash in town escapes their receptacles and \\"comes out to play.\\" The litterbug learns his lesson and in the process brings his community together to practice the four \\"R\\"s of environmental activism: rethink, reduce, reuse, and recycle. It's a lesson all kids need to be exposed to and this book does it very well.	2004-06-01
US	37696358	R9OYD1KXB301R	0974437433	70244996	Optimal Investing: How to Protect and Grow Your Wealth With Asset Allocation	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Excellent help for navigating stormy financial seas	Reading this book is like climbing aboard a sturdy, secure boat to ply the stormy seas of money management. The author does a wonderful job of breaking down the asset allocation process into understandable, manageable steps. With its lists, worksheets, sample portfolios and &quot;Golden Rules&quot; of investment, this is the perfect How-To book for keeping your money safe and growing.	2004-05-10
US	37696358	R1HW0X375DL49F	0974207845	351874866	Child-Friendly Divorce: A Divorce(d) Therapist's Guide to Helping Your Children Thrive	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Don't Get Divorced Without It	Going through divorce is an emotional experience that can make people who've shared life's most gentle moments turn on each other like rabid beasts. The statistics reveal the need for a book like this one: 50-60% of marriages fail; and one third of children under 18 live with only one parent.<br />Author Diane Berry brings unique qualifications to her book project; as a young attorney practicing family law, she recognized a flair for helping deal with the emotional upsets caused by divorce. She went back to school, earned a Masters Degree in Social Work, and began a counseling practice specializing in Marriage and Family Therapy. When she developed an informal class to educate parents about handling some of the difficulties of divorce, a court official saw its value and made it mandatory for all divorcing parents in their county. Five years later, the class is conducted 24 times a year and filled to capacity.<br />The subtitle of the first chapter sets the book's tone: What Happens to the Children? Fond memories and children or not, divorce is the inevitable outcome of many marriages, and despite their best intentions, couples unwittingly do very harmful things to their kids while in the throes of splitting up. Berry describes how separation and divorce affects children in different age groups emotionally, and suggests how to deal with problems that arise, both short term and long term. She recommends setting up a system of nurturing, open communication, and stresses the importance of organization and scheduling.<br />Berry's therapy experience comes to play often, such as her explanation of the behavioral technique Emotional Regulation to change habits and improve outcomes. She encourages utilizing outside counseling and urges parents not to feel overly guilty. Children are resilient and actually grow emotionally through dealing with stress in small doses -- they need not be totally sheltered from the reality of life. Berry recommends sensitivity to the needs of the \\"other\\" parent balanced with protecting the children and building their self-esteem. Divorcing couples must travel a path toward cooperation, forgiveness, letting go of the pain -- and moving on.<br />By rendering good advice infused with positive thinking, humor, and an upbeat tone, Berry gives parents an encouraging roadmap for accomplishing divorce while inflicting the fewest emotional scars on their children.e \\"other\\" parent balanced with protecting the children and building their self-esteem. Divorcing couples must travel a path toward cooperation, forgiveness, letting go of the pain -- and moving on.<br />By rendering good advice infused with positive thinking, humor, and an upbeat tone, Berry gives parents an encouraging roadmap for accomplishing divorce while inflicting the fewest emotional scars on their children.	2004-03-15
