US	37762530	R2JL0CDGAFEG8U	0843946911	615196770	Snow Fire (Leisure historical romance)	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Awful	Okay, I'll admit it: I like reading about heroines who are in dire need of a strong hero. As I picked up Snow Fire, and read the back cover, I thought \\"Maybe this will be good.\\" Big mistake. I'd once read another book by Norah Hess -  Caleb's Bride - and thought it awful as well. This one has not the rapings and cursings, but it has totally useless characters. Not to mention , you read it, and it looks like something a really amateur writer would produce. The main characters, Stone and Flame, are both in love with one another, but Stone likes to tease and flirt with an Indian maiden, Little Bird, and Flame doesn't like it, but she has lost her memory and wants Stone to care for her and Shilo, who is in love with Little Bird, treats her like crap and Little Bird is oblivious to how angry Flame gets with her, even when Shilo points it out to her and-- (does it sound like I'm rambling on, because that's what the book is like.) <br />Now, I don't like writing bad reviews, but when I find a book like this with a reputed good author's name on the front, I feel like screaming. <br />I'm sorry if you're a die-hard Norah Hess fan, and you don't like this bad-mouthing, but this book truly deserves it.	2005-06-22
US	37762530	R3A4T3023JTPCE	0373650787	965246949	Cowboy Wants a Baby	Books	5	5	6	N	N	1st Trueblood ine the series	Lily knows she has to get over that jerk that told her he loved her, then went home to his wife! So, when she gets a call from an old friend, who wants to use Lily's agency to find her grandson Cole, Lily accepts. Little does she know that Cole has his own agenda.<BR>When Lily reaches the small town where Cole lives, she finds everyone talking about Cole's new advertisement for a... she doesn't know!! But she has to find out, so she goes to Cole's house, where she's almost blown away by his handsomeness. Then she's asked to give him a medical history and what she thinks qualifies her to take on the job of...his baby-maker?!?! Lily goes along with this new and shocking development, but doesn't reveal who she is.<BR>As Lily and Cole grow closer, Lily finds more and more to like about this dark, sexy, intense man who she's falling in love with. The man who doesn't even know she's going to bring him back, reluctantly, to his grandmother for a reconciliation. Will he still care for her when he finds that she's betrayed him?<br />This was my favorite book of all the Trueblood Texas I have read. Lily was the funniest, quirkiest, and most witty heroine you'll ever meet. And Cole, whoa, he is such a hunk! He's so yummy! He's more cautious around women now (hence the baby-maker) but he's ?willing? to let Lily into his heart. He's such a great wounded hero (sighhhhh). Take a chance and read this magnificent start to a magnificent series. And it's okay to drool over Cole, no one will blame you. Enjoy:>	2004-02-14
US	37762530	R19CN683X86SHR	0373708491	893423477	Her Own Ranger (Harlequin Superromance, 849)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Everglades Romance	Seminole Indian Carson Ward is after the poachers who killed his father. He's a wildlife park ranger in the Everglades. He's vowed to avenge his father, and will use any means necessary to do so.<br /> Famous Alisha Jamison is after some great wildlife shots for her last program. She's a wildlife photographer who's on her last legs. She needs one last big show, and to bring down the poachers who almost killed her, before she draws her last breath.<br /> The two collide when Carson offers Alisha the chance to capture some great photos of the Florida Everglades and the creatures that dwell there. Instead of producing pictures of endangered birds and alligators, Alisha decides to help Carson hunt down the poachers who killed his father, and are wreaking havoc on Seminole land.<br /> Alisha knows she doesn't have long to live, thanks to the poachers in Africa who carved her up, causing her lungs to catch every little cold. Carson knows something is wrong with Alisha, and knows he can't give up until he finds out what. On the road to capturing these poachers, Alisha and Carson fall in love, but will Alisha's sickness prevent them from seeking the love of a lifetime?<br /> The secondary characters of Ray, Carson's cousin, and Adoette, who's in love with Ray, added a colorful background story to the main one. You see Ray resist all efforts to fall in love with Adoette, who's equally determined to keep him.<br /> Being from south Florida made me want to read a story about a place I've been many times. The Everglades are a beautiful place in their own right, and if you just looked past all the mud and the muck, you'd see a place worthy of any person to visit.<br /> Enjoy reading Carson and Alisha's story in what I consider a beautiful environment just right for falling in love.	2003-08-10
US	37762530	RC6TA8XKJB5AT	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great paranormal romance	When Gian Ren finds himself captured by barbarians, and drugged with something he's never experienced before, he knows he and his people, the Familiar, are in danger. The drug effects his senses in a way he doesn't want to remember,  and he knows that, somehow, he has to escape.<br /> His salvation comes to him in the form of Jenise, a fellow prisoner on this desolate planet. When she finds that she will soon rule this barren planet, and that a jealous man wants her virginity stolen so he may rule, she devises a plan to help the Familiar escape, with her, if he takes her virginity himself.<br /> Little does Jenise know that Gian has devised a secret plan of his own, in which he does take her virginity, but also marries her in the way of the Familiar. Not knowing of the marriage vows that will seal them together forever, Jenise makes a pact with Gian - they will aid each other off this planet and go their seperate ways. Gian knows he will never let this beautiful woman go, but he agrees with her to appease her.<br /> The journey the two them take is loaded with perils and joys. When they finally get to M'yan, home planet of the Familiar, Jenise finds out that the two of them are married, and also, that Gian Ren is the king of all Familiar! And that she is his queen!<br /> I loved this story. It was a fun and light read, woven with characters from the past two books (See REJAR and KNIGHT OF A TRILLION STARS), and what's been going on in their lives. You also find out more about Rejar's quest to become an Alliance member, which is hilarious (but I'd recommend reading the first two books to understand the language and characteristics of the characters).<br /> This was a wonderful edition to Ms. Joy's awesome series that I hope she'll be adding to. We still need Dariq's and Traed's stories, Ms. Joy!	2003-08-10
US	37762530	RBX5YST81CTYT	0373271808	359784525	Right Side Of The Law (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderfully Funny Romance	Blu DuFray had a past. He once was the hired muscle of a loan shark. This obviously earned him a bad reputation. Until he rescued those kids last year from a slave seller. Now he has a bigger problem. He needs to find the beautiful 'nun' with the damnedest brown eyes who pulled a gun on him and whacked him over the head with his own boot!<br />That pretty lady was Kristen Harris, desperate for someone who knows her, because she can't remember anything before the last three years. She woke up in a stranger's bed, naked, who told her he was her husband, told her her name, and that he thinks she's in trouble with the law. For those three long years she suffered sexual abuse and emotional hurt, but one night she gets a chance, and makes a run for it, armed only with a small pistol, her daughter, and a picture of a gorgeous stranger with fathomless dark eyes. On the back - Blu Devil, New Orleans, so she heads to New Orleans to find the Blu Devil, and ask him why his thirty-four by thirty-two picture is on her 'husband's' wall! <br />When Blu finds the woman, he's shocked to see that she's really a girl, no older than twenty! He listens to her story, though, and decides to help her. That night, they make love, and in the morning, Blu gets another surprise - his 'Angel' has a two-year-old daughter that everyone thinks is his!<br />They find a way to help each other, and on along the way, they fall in love. But will the man claiming to be her 'husband' find her? What will he do to her? Worse, what will he do to Blu, the man of her dreams?<br />A great sequel to A YOUNGER WOMAN, in which Blu's sister Margo and her cop ex-lover star. I hope we'll have Jackson's story next. Keep up the good work Ms. Rosnau!	2003-08-10
US	37762530	R2NQV5VJLC1VWA	050552337X	964607725	Rejar (Timeswept)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Rejar-Wonderful paranormal romance	On the way to a tea party, Lilac Devere and her Auntie Agatha are shocked when a flash of light, a booming crash, and a large black cat with two different colored eyes, one fiery gold, one ice blue, suddenly appear in their coach. Lilac is immediately taken with the pretty kitty, and vows to take it home with her if it's still here when they get back from the party.<br /> Little does Lilac know, the black cat is not just a cat, but a man who can transform into a cat. A Familiar to be exact, who is from a future time and a different dimension. Rejar knows he's been sent here for a reason, so he decides to stay in Ree Gen Cee Ing Land and find out why he's here.<br /> Lilac brings her kitty into her home to keep. Suddenly, Lilac starts having wonderful dreams about a sexual, NAKED man. Rejar knows he can't stay in this world as a cat, so he decides to tell people he's from a faraway land so no one can check his story. He tells people his name is Nickolai Azov and that he's a prince from Russia. When Lilac meets the Prince for the first time, she's shocked to find that it's the same sensual stranger from her dreams. What she also didn't expect was to see the Prince who had two different colored eyes, an eye of fiery gold, and an eye of ice blue!<br /> Rejar decides then and there that he will marry the beautiful Lilac. But before he can do that, he wants Lilac to be used to him, hence the nighttime visits. There are some advantages of being able to do this, and when he discovers a kitten-shaped birthmark on Lilac's inner thigh, he uses it to his advantage. When he tells Auntie Agatha about the birthmark, she thinks he has compromised her niece, and proclaims that they will be married days later. Lilac's reaction was outrage, to say the least. She was very opposed to the marriage, which she knows the obnoxious Prince Azov has tricked her into. When the minister asks her 'Do you take this man...' she refuses to answer. Rejar finds this vastly amusing, and, having telepahic ability, sends her a message asking her if she wants him to stop the cerimony. When she shouts &quot;Yes I do!&quot; the minister pronounces them husband and wife, since no one else heard the thought. Lilac once again realizes she's been tricked. This results in a marriage of hilarious escapades.<br /> Another good thing about this book is that we revisit with characters form the previous novel &quot;Knight of a Trillion Stars&quot;, starring Lorgin, Rejar's brother, his wife Adeeann, and a new addition to the family! We also meet again with Traed, who shows up to 'pester' our hero the day after his wedding, and Yaniff, an ancient wizard who wants Rejar to join the Alliance, a group of extraordinary wizards on Rejar's home planet.<br /> This book was a story of wild contradictions, explosive sexual encounters, a heroine with just the right amount of stubborness and laughter, and a hero with the biggest heart a hero could have. Definitely a keeper. ;)	2003-08-09
US	37762530	R2RX6ZC01VI3WQ	0373484224	853000994	The Stanislaski Brothers (Two Complete Novels: Mikhail and Alex)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Love those Stanislaski men!	Luring a Lady<BR>  The day Sydney Hayward took over her family company was a day of remembrance, especially for her, because that was the day  Mikhail Stanislaski barged in and told her to fix the building that he's been asking her to fix for months. Little did she know, her assistant had been supposed to do it, and didn't. So she gets back in his face and tells him she'll be over later that day. When she does get there, she tells him to make a list telling her what needs to be fixed. She gets really involved in this building, and also involved with Mikhail. She just has to overcome the fear she has every time he shows emotion, because Mikhail's emotions are all of him.<br />Convincing Alex<BR>  When Alexi Stansislaski mistakenly arrests Bess McNee for soliciting, she makes a deal with him. She'll forget the charges if he'll take her with him for a whole day so she could research cops for her script she has to write for the local soap opera. Not too hard. But after spending time with him, and his family, Bess knows she'll never find another man like Alexi. Now all she has to do is convince Alexi that she loves him for who he is. Shouldn't be too hard to convince Alexi.<br />These men are the definition of sexuality. Dark, wild hair and whiskey-colored eyes, broad shoulders, and a love of family make them the perfect guys, especially to the women who love them.	2003-08-08
US	37762530	R38FFCA2HRFDPT	0843944714	121065454	White Wolf	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The best of the 'White' series	Tomboy Jessie Jones is furious with her three brothers. They had all been planning to go West for a long time, and then all of a sudden, they break the news to her that she can't go! That they're willing to split up the family because a half-breed Indian wagon master doesn't allow single women in his wagon train. But when she confronts White Wolf, she's mistaken for a boy, and finds out, that if she lies, that she can go after all!<br />Wolf knows that the youngest Jones boy is a trouble maker without a doubt. So he gives Jessie the most tiring tasks so he'll be too exhausted to get into mischief. But when he finds out he's really a she, he get even. And all the while, the two of them are falling in love. But before they can have a life together they need to figure out what Wolf's duty is to his tribe.<br />This was the best book in the whole series. I loved Jessie. She was the strongest heroine without being too stubborn and pushy. And Wolf was your star wounded hero. Gruff and stubborn on the outside, but a heart of gold on the inside. This book was so well written. The secondary characters, who was everyone in the wagon train, were excellent editions to this story, and the relationship between Jessie and the youngest brother Jeremy, was so sweet. I almost couldn't wait for his story, White Dove, who ends up being Wolf's youngest sister. James, the oldest, has his own story too, White Nights. You can't help but love the Jones'. Also, when they get together with White Wind and Golden Eagle, Wolf's parents, and the rest of the family, you know it's got to be wonderful.	2003-08-08
US	37762530	R24VEOJ1N0R0DR	084394031X	707414806	Cheyenne Surrender (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Cheyenne Surrender	This is a story about the half-breed Caleb Stryker and Callie, who was the daughter of Caleb's father's mistress. When the story starts out Callie comes to Caleb's house and asks for the money his father, Duncan, promised her mother before he died. Caleb refuses and thinks she's no better then a street tart. She slaps him, and the story goes on from there. Caleb finds out that the ranch he loves was left to Callie and her mother, who'd died months ago. He decides to marry Callie so that the ranch will become his. Only he asks her to marry him out of love, even tells her he loves her. When she finds out the ranch is hers, she's mad, and breaks off the engagement, but not before making love with Caleb one time. Even after that one time she freaks out and runs away, even though Caleb tried to convince her they were going to be married anyway. This sets off a series of events that cause many consequences.<br />I didn't like Callie at all. I mean, I know this book is set in the 1800s, and that sex before marriage was considered a sin, but she was too worried about becoming like her mother. Over and over in the book she kicks, screams, slaps, etc at Caleb when he kisses her, and tells him over and over that she doesn't want to end up like her mother. It was like a litany. She had to say it every other page. It drove me nuts. I had to skim over several pages because she was being a brat. And even after she found out he still loved her, she never trusted him until the last thirty pages or so when she finally has the baby. Although part of that distrust was the result of Angela, Caleb's childhood friend, who also becomes pregnant, and tells Callie it's Caleb's!<br />This was a book that only deserves 4 stars because it is a book with another stupid heroine. And I'm only being so generous because I loved Caleb. He was a VERY sexy hero.<BR>...	2003-08-06
US	37762530	R10UJKNRCCGJHN	0843949953	882245871	White Dawn (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	White Dawn	When Emily Ambrose's father abandons her in the wilds of Michigan Territory, she's terrified. Before they're out of sight, though, Emily's parents are attacked right before her very eyes. She runs to her mother, and receives a locket from her mother right before she died, along with some interesting words...<BR>Swift Foot is to be the next chief in his Sioux tribe. But when he hears a cry in his dreams, the tribe shaman tells him he is to leave and find out what it is. Swift Foot later finds Emily, and they fall in love and become lovers. But Swift Foot knows he can't bring her back to his tribe because his people will be reminded of his father's acts. He leaves her in the middle of the night, but stays close to wait for John Cartier to find her in the morning.<BR>John Cartier is so lonely that when he sees his Lady Dawn, he thinks it's an illusion. But no, it is Emily, a heartbroken, ready-to-die Emily. John helps heal her emotionally, and falls in love with her in the meantime.<br />Emily is so wary of love it's sad, because John loves her with all his heart. Then, she falls in love with him as well, but learns she's become pregnant by her Indian lover.<BR>There are several more problems along the way, such as Willy, John's ne'er-do-well cousin. But then, the road to true love has never been easy!<BR>**Edwards has written an award-winning novel of hopes that are crushed and love that'll never die. This book was the first of Edwards books I'd read. I just picked it up in the grocery store one day, got home, and read through it all in one sitting. It made me cry so hard when Swift Foot left poor Emily. I could actually hear her anguished cries. Laughter and love, tears and pain, all part of the game of true love.	2003-08-01
US	37762530	R31UN9ACM6HGYR	0821775111	607744773	Then He Kissed Her (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	3 novellas in the 1700s & 1800s	Love Passages by Kate Donovan<BR> When Miranda is sent to Ryan Collier's home to be the governess to his three cousin's children, she fears she won't get to position because he thinks she's too young. He agrees, though, to give her a trial run with the two 'barbarian' boys, and the angel of a little girl. But what he doesn't know is that in the secret passages in the house lie his sister's lover and the cousin who was accused of stealing a diamond necklace, the same cousin who's children Ryan is guardian to. What he also doesn't know is that Miranda does know!<BR> This was probably my favorite novella. This story was cute, to say the least. In the beginning, these two are unfailingly polite and aloof with each other. As the story goes on, however, I thought that Ryan turned an about-face too quickly, going from mean ogre to kindly Prince Charming. After this abrupt change, though, I liked him a lot. My favorite cahracter was Nick, the cousin accused of stealing the necklace. He was so funny and an unexpected change.<br />When Morning Comes by Lori Handeland<BR> When Seth receives a letter from a lawyer informing him that his friend Henry Elliot has been killed in the Civil War and that his wife has died as well, AND that they have a child Henry wanted him to look after for him, he rushes to Virginia to see to it. Little does he know that there aren't just one but five children of various ages to look after. Add to that the southerner Ella, who was best friend to Henry's wife, will not allow a Yankee soldier to care for the precious children she loves as her own.<BR> The only thing I didn't like about this story was that Ella left him on the first day alone with a hungry baby, an angry twelve-year-old boy, two young girls and another little boy just to show him how unskilled he was, and that he should go back to Boston where he came from. That wasn't too smart on her part.<br />Her Kilt-Clad Rogue by Julie Moffett<BR> When Genevieve arrives in Scotland to take care of childhood friend Connor's eight-year-old son, she doesn't expect the coldness of the boy, or the determination of the man. Nor does she expect Connor to have been accused of murdering his wife!<BR> This one was a little of a disappointment. Ewan, the son, was a little brat, to say the least. He had never even met an Englishwoman, yet he condemned Genevieve for something he knew nothing about. Connor, however, was a great hero. Wonderfully sexy and determined to remind Genevieve how much she loved him.<br />All in all, this set of stories was entertaining and a great light read.	2003-08-01
US	37762530	RIPVTJE022TUB	0843951060	701435299	The Outlaw's Woman (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Outlaw's Woman	This book starts off six months after Thomas Howard leaves. Dena Clayter has been a widow for three or four days, and on the day of her late husband's funeral, she meets a fugitive, a part of the Jesse James gang. Thomas Howard stays for one night in Dena's barn, then leaves the next morning. That afternoon, a Pinkerton agent (cop) shows up on Dena's doorstep asking about the same fugitive. She tells him she knows nothing, and he leaves with a warning that he'll be keeping an eye on her. That same afternoon, Thomas rides back to her because of a blizzard. They spend about a week together, do the deed, and the next day he leaves, promising to return when the heat of the Pinkertons' is gone. Little does he know he leaves her pregnant. Now she's on a quest to find him to tell them about the baby everyone in her small town thinks is her late husband's.<br />Have you ever read a book with a great beginning, so good that you think the rest of the story will be as well? Then, as it turns out, the second half isn't at all as good as the first? That's what this book was. I loved the characters Dena Clayter and Thomas Howard when they first met. They were so fun and in love. However, that's not the way it stays.<br />I hope you all agree with me that the worst thing in the world is a stupid heroine. Now, Dena was a great woman in the beginning. But while on her quest to find Thomas, she stumbles across some devastating news...when she sees him again, she doesn't ask about it, she just gives him the cold shoulder!! ... She should've come right out with it. Instead, she let it fester inside of her until she was convinced she was a wanton whore, and he was a liar and a murderer... She also talked way too much about her dead husband. The author made it clear that he was a jerk and a mental abuser, yet she praises him and quotes him throughout the whole book. I loved Thomas, though. He was a great hero with a kind heart and a warmth you kept help but notice and love. I think he deserved much better than that ungrateful brat Dena. She should have more faith in her man.<br />If you like stupid heroines and frustrating novels, this is the book for you...	2003-07-23
US	37762530	R3HEO1TNDPYA46	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hot & sensual read.....	Marnie Wright grew up with four older brothers who smothered her because of a heart condition as a child. Now that she's twenty-seven, she's tired of taking the path of least resistance. She's finally going to do something with her life. When her Grammy died, Marnie decided to stay in the cabin up in the mountains. There she meets Jake Dolan, a hard-edged, antisocial guy with the most sensuous mouth she's ever seen...<BR>When Jake meets Marnie, the last thing he wants is a woman to complicate things, especially since he's there on a mission to find to people who are trying to frame him as a mole in the T-FLAC government agency.<BR>When a tree falls on Marnie's cabin, and Jake comes to find her, he takes her to his underground lair where she finds that he's top-secret military.<BR>This book was wonderful. I loved the way Marnie flattened every attempt Jake had to keep her away. She was such a strong character. Jake was a very sexy and mysterious man with a past. The events these two go through on the path of love is funny, sensuous, and heart-breaking. This book is recommended very highly by me, and it will always have a place on my shelf.	2003-06-18
US	37762530	R2B1D6A7I68AYE	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	1	1	N	N	To Kill a Mockingbird	When I first heard that our English teacher was going to assign this book to be read by the end of the year, my first thought was \\"Great, another boring assignment.\\" I changed my mind, however, when we started to read to book. After receiving some background info, I understood this book perfectly. We just finished reading it, and I must say, tha teachers of Palm Bch County, FL know how to pick 'em!<BR>Six-year-old Scout is the narrator of this story. Her brother, Jem, is four years older, and a loyal son to their father Atticus. Atticus is an attorney who is asked to defend a black man named Tom Robinson when he is accused of raping Mayella Ewell, a poor farmer's daughter. This book contains it all: love and hate, black and white, the good, the bad, and the ugly.<BR>I'm glad that my teacher picked this one!	2003-05-06
US	37762530	R1AR17G36L88CP	0505522659	380256462	Knight of a Trillion Stars (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another Dara Joy Triumph!!	This book was great! It's the first in a series, followed by Rejar (which was also wonderful!), and then Mine To Take (three superbs in a row!). It starts with Deana at home after an awful day, and to add to that, she finds an alien on her living room sofa! What's a girl to do! Lorgin is a wonderful and sexy hero, ,to which his \\"Adeeann\\" is a perfect match. The only problem is I don't know where Traed's (another sexy character) story is!! Aagghh! Why hasn't Ms. Joy written that yet!? I'd recommend this book to anyone! It was truly a magnificent novel!	2003-05-05
US	37762530	R2NZFHADS3ZZSG	0373259336	579207362	Seducing Mr. Right	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sizzling Romance!!	Catherine Harris has loved Luke Van Buren since she was six years old, when her mother married his father, and he became her stepbrother. She's been in love with him since she was sixteen. But Luke knows how hurt Cat was by him when they were kids, and he's resolved to make it up to her, and put his desires on hold. But Cat has other ideas, and sets out to seduce him within an inch of her life. Little does she know that Luke doesn't need to be seduced, that he's been in love with her forever. However, a little persuasion can't hurt!<BR>This book had me laughing out loud at some of Cat's antics. The beginning was hilarious. It's also a VERY sexy read. I'd recommend it to anyone!	2003-03-24
US	37762530	R3RKDLYAFOHLFB	037324178X	207518971	A Hero's Homecoming, Special Edition (Montana Mavericks: Return to Whitehorn)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Montana Mavericks: The Long-Lost Hero	JD Cade is a loner, a drifter, who appears to be passing through Whitehorn. But it's more then that. He's also the long-lost Kincaid heir, Wayne Kincaid. He left 25 years ago and never looked back. He's come back though, ,and he's the only one who can save a little girl's life.<BR>Carey Hall is the doctor who is taking care of that little girl. Jennifer McCallum needs a bone marrow transplant, and a relative who can help. Unfortunately, her illegitament half-brother doesn't match on all counts. Carey is getting desperate, and when JD volunteers to be tested, she reluctently agrees. JD decides if his test comes out positive, he'll tell everyone who he really is.<BR>This sets off a series of events that'll keep you reading until the very last page. This book is definentely a keeper. Laurie Paige has done it again.	2003-03-24
US	37762530	R1YC2HPSSD4GKT	B00005W1A4	532322975	His Brother's Bride: Men of Glory	Books	4	4	4	N	N	His Brother's Bride	Abby Steen met Jesse Winslow at a cattle show. She's lonely after her husband's death a few months ago. She and Jesse dance, and she tells him about her husbands death and the daughter that was stillborn a couple months later. They have a weekend affair, and then go their seperate ways.<BR>Four months later, Abby writes to Jesse and tells him she's pregnant. He write back, and surprisingly, asks her to marry him. She accepts when she knows that she'll never be accepted by the small-minded people of her hometown as a single mother. She moves in with Jesse and his brother Noah.<BR>Just days before the wedding, though, Jesse takes off, leaving Abby alone with Noah. Noah galantly offers to marry her instead, and Abby hesitantly agrees. Their marriage might be for the sake of the !twins!, but it soon turns to a love that'll last through it all!	2003-03-24
US	37762530	R2Q4C50SNB31OF	0373192088	723598262	Husband Next Door (I'M Your Groom/Debut Author) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Husband 101	*With women throwing themselves at him, how could anyone expect Aaron Carpenter to settle down with just one? Yet Shelly was determined to transform her irresistibly handsome neighbor into the perfect man. Not for herself, of course. She was safely engaged to her stable and secure fianc--a man totally without Aaron's passionate nature...<BR>And so the lessons began, reforming Aaron's notions about love and devotion. But he's a suspiciously quick learner. And now she had turned the most confirmed bachelor into the husband of every women's drams--especially hers...*<BR>Now, I knew right off the bat that something was peculiar about Aaron, especially after seeing the Bridal Registry Form on the inside cover. This book had me laughing at some parts and rolling my eyes at others. I thought it was very well-written. The only part I didn't like was the way Shelly tried to escape Aaron by getting married to someone else. That part was kind of ridiculous.	2003-03-19
US	37762530	RYL54ZHGVHE25	037316856X	139857816	Twin Expectations	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sweet & Sexy!!	*Identical twin sisters Bridget and Liz Van Zandt wanted families. And no way would their vacant ring fingers thwart their girlhood pledge to have babies--hubbies or no hubbies--by age thirty. So when the birthday bell tolled, the baby hunt began! But their pact didn't play out exactly as expected...<BR>  After her presto pregnacy at a sperm bank, sophisticated Bridget began to yearn for the set-in-stone bachelor Nick Raines. And in her quest for mommyhood, bold beauty Liz landed in the arms--and bed--of her enemy, Eric Statler. Would these two rich-and-dreamy half brothers give the twin lovelies what they truly desired all along--a double wedding?*<BR> Well! That about says it all, except for some minor details, such as getting kicked out of a party, getting caught making-out at another one, false accusations, and early labors, you've got all the info you need to know that this two-in-one story would be sassy and sweet addition to your bookshelf. Happy reading!	2003-03-19
US	37762530	R4GKIUY3Q2N4	0373650868	24098233	Trueblood Texas: Surprise Package	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Trueblood!	Kyle Blackstone has wanted a relationship with the lovely Ashley Garrett ever since he first laid eyes on her. But Ashley has never been interested in guys like Kyle- handsome, built, and a lady's man. Every time he flirts, she walks away. Until one night, when Ashley finds a baby on Kyle's doorstep (They live across from each other in an apartment building). She reads the note and finds it very believable that Kyle deserted his baby daughter. But Kyle knows that can't be his baby. ... There's a lot of comedy and hilarity in this Joanna Wayne novel. It's also very sexy and provocative. It's a keeper, definintely!	2003-03-19
US	37762530	R1XEZS8IGMNEJA	0843939338	749725234	White Wind (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	White Wind	From the back:<BR>*When her beloved stepfather died, lovely young Sarah Cartier knew it was time to set out on her own-to escape her evil guardian's clutches and perhaps to discover the father she'd never known. But Sarah didn't make it far before her path crossed with the virile and vexing Golden Eagle. He had rescued her years before, and now the hard-bodied warrior was back. This time around, he vowed no obstacle would stop him from tasting her sweet lips, from sharing with her an unforgettable ecstasy as he forever claimed her as his own.*<BR> Since I'd read the story of Sarah's mother and stepfather's love, and how that came to be in WHITE DAWN, I knew I would have to read about their daughter too. This book was very romantic and exciting, with many amusing details as well. The secondary characters, Red Fox, Wild-Flower, Seeing Eyes, Hawk Eyes, Mary and Ben, and White Cloud are all great additions to the story. Sarah is such a brave and lovely heroine, and is also half Indian, which makes it more entertaining. Golden Eagle is the chief's only son of their band of Sioux. He is a strong warrior, and a sexy and virile hero. He and Sarah compliment each other. This is one book that'll always be on my shelf. This was Ms. Edwards first book, not just in the White series, but her first ever book. And I must say that it's a keeper.	2003-01-06
US	37762530	REC891GU71XOQ	0373709358	376490657	Deep in the Heart of Texas (Harlequin Superromance No. 935)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Romantic and Suspensful - All-in-all a great read!!	In DEEP IN THE HEART OF TEXAS, Miranda is the pampered rich man's daughter, and Jacob is a fugitive wanted for the murders of his wife and son five years ago. In the beginning, we find Miranda in a dark and dreary room, and Miranda knowing that she was going to die. The \\"hermit\\" aka Jacob, but we don't know that yet, finds her and sets her free. Spikes, the man who kidnapped her and works as her father's foreman, is determined to find her. The hermit hides her, then, after she begs him,tells her that he'll take her within a mile of the ranch so that Spikes can't find her. On their first night, Spikes \\"finds\\" them, and lets it slip that someone in her family did this to her. On the two day trek to her home, she and Jacob grow closer. He tells her about how his wife and son were killed, which was absolutely heartbreaking, and that he's wanted for their murders. Miranda tells him right away she can't believe that. When they get to the ranch, she rides off, with Jacob watching. When she hears gunfire, she rides back and is shot. I'm not going to spoil the story more than I already have, except to tell you that the secrets that come out of the Maddox family (Miranda's) when they try to find out who kidnapped Miranda were prety amusing. I thought Ms. Warren wrote a very romantic love story and a very suspensful mystery.<BR>  Is probably the best book I've ever read. I can't wait to read Lucas' story!	2002-12-15
US	37762530	RFOYLFIO4ZQL8	0505524805	835349208	Night Games	Books	5	3	3	N	N	VERY funny, & sexy!	Brian Byrne is the MVP of the world's most popular sport: Sex. He's also from the year 2502! Brian sees no challenge in his life of sex and orgasms, so he travels back in time to 2002. Once there, he meets Ally O'Neil and her great aunt Katy. They've travelled to Ireland because Katy wants to see ghosts and spirits and such \\"before she dies\\"(Katy quotes).<BR>  This Book was wild! I'd never read about what the future might be like.<BR>  Ally and Brian provide uproariously funny conversations that will have you on your back. The ending is so sweet, I had tears in my eyes. If you want to read something weird about going back in time, here you are. The unicorn thing is BIZARRE. I liked all the secondary characters as well, like Jupe and the Old One(Yes in capital letters). The slight Mystery about the \\"curse\\" on the castle is solved near the end, and it turns out so unlike you'd expect. This is one book I recommend highly to you!	2002-09-22
US	37762530	R15E5XX057BEPG	0373709382	768465956	Matt's Family: The Brennan Brothers (Harlequin Superromance No. 938)	Books	1	3	6	N	N	So Sad!!	I don't know anyone who would want to read a romance novel that ends up being more depressing then romantic. I felt so bad for Luke. I'd fallen in love with him in the first book, &quot;Luke's Daughters,&quot; and I don't know why Ms. Kent even wrote about something like this. I had an urge to stop as soon as the divorce, but I read it all the way through. The ending is less depressing, but I still think that this series was pointless.	2002-09-22
US	37762530	R3BRUG2YMDAQKG	1551666189	224857817	Manhunting (Mira)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	5 stars-no doubt!!	This book had me laughing from almost the very first page! I loved the way Kate and Jake &quot;met&quot;. Kate's dates were-of course-the best parts of the book. I was laughing out loud every time she'd go on a date because she ALWAYS had some kind of bad luck. And Jake was almost ALWAYS there, too! I'm laughing out loud just thinking about some of his reactions. For example, saving someone from drowning, giving CPR, and loading another one into his truck to take him to the hospital. Near the middle-ending of the book, Kate (luckily for the guests) stops dating, and concentrates on her attraction for Jake. I've read three other books by Jennifer Crusie, and this one is by far the funniest! But then, she always keeps her readers laughing. Definently a keeper!	2002-08-07
US	37762530	R2BD1PU0QNQBH5	0373226209	690303461	The Lawman Who Loved Her (Harlequin Intrigue, No. 620)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best Book EVER!!!	I loved this book from almost the first page. The seemingly impossible relationship between Cody & Dana was torture and joy rolled into one. I had such sympathy for each at different times. Cody is a cop with a VERY dry & at times sick sense of humor. He's a very dreamy hero, though. He & Dana are divorced. She works at an attorney's office. This story had me on the edge of my seat at times, hardly able to breathe because of the fear and suspense in this story. Knowing who the villain is from the start had its advantages, like knowing that one of the characters you like isn't the bad guy. The beginning, when Cody is hurt and worried, and when Dana sees him, it's very exciting & terrifying at the same time. When I learned why they had divorced, I was in tears because I was so upset. Same when Dana is kidnapped and forced to watch her house blow up. The ending was such a great finale, I didn't want it to end at all! I'm getting teary-eyed just thinking about this book! I'd never heard of Mallory Kane before this, but I'm glad I happened to glance at it in the store. I could read it over & over again and never get board. This is probably my favorite book. Get prepared to pull an all-nighter if you're going to start this book in the afternoon. This is one book I recommend HIGHLY!! ENJOY!	2002-08-07
US	37762530	R71PSADIB92PK	037370979X	738564148	Hush, Little Baby: The Daddy School (Harlequin Superromance No. 979)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great ending...	I've read some of Judith Arnold's other books, and I have to tell you-this one kind of disappointed me. The storyline just drags on and on and on... I had to skim over maybe 75 pages just to get to the good parts! I thought Corrine was very cold-hearted. I mean, I know she loves the baby, but just because Levi wants to do the right thing doesn't mean she has to give up! DJ IS a great baby, and I know Levi has fallen in love with him, too. Which is why the ending came as such a mixture of shock AND predictability. Very endearing read, though, I had to admit. Levi and Corrine's Story got off to a VERY interesting start, and ends the same way! Happy reading!! :)	2002-08-07
US	37762530	RLMG09QXRMZAQ	0373650337	649266915	A Willing Wife (Fortunes Of Texas)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not what I expected	After reading the first three Fortunes' stories, I really thought that this one was disapointing. I must have put the book down 4 or 5 times AND read books in between! The ending gave a little thrill, but I didn't like Maggie at all! She had no self-esteem or self-confidence! Dallas was a great hero, though a little too pushy for my taste. I've read other books by Jackie Merritt and thought they were great, but this one dragged on for WAY too long!	2002-08-07
US	37762530	R84D52U9ILW57	0373471793	690603265	Racing with the Moon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Loved This Book!	I loved this book! It had just the right amount of romance and adventure to make it special. Her grandmother is someone I'll never forget! She cracked me up! I reccomend this book highly!	2002-08-07
