US	37818376	R29EG2YCFFJ9NT	0375502874	687702711	A Box of Matches: A Novel (Baker, Nicholson)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Relaxing Summer Read	Nicholson Baker's <BR>A Box of Matches is based on a very simple premise. Emmett, a text-book editor nearing middle age, decided that every morning, he will wake up very early just to think. He ponders his life, and life in general, while burning a fire in his fireplace. When the box of matches used to light the fire is finished, so is his habit of waking up early just to think.<br />Sound simple? It is. Sound too simple? It isn't. This deceptively simple plot actually makes for an exciting, yet relaxing read. The novel flows smoothly and quickly. While the reader reads about Emmett's thought, she or he also learns intimate details about his personal life. We see his close relationship with his wife Claire. We see his daily interactions with their teenage daughter, young son, and pet duck. Baker also adds funny comments to Emmett's thoughts, which allow us to get to know his quirky and witty personality.<br />The novel is short, which adds to its eligibility as a summer reading choice. Admittedly, no one would want to read a 400 page book about one man's thoughts. As a short novel, however, the book is a well-written literary portrait of one man's life and character. The book also tends to inspire readers to get up earlier, to read and write more often, to enjoy life, and most importantly- to simply stop and think.<br />If you are looking for an enjoyable and relaxing book to read this summer, <BR>A Box of Matches is one book you are sure to like. It is a perfect book to read while at the beach, in the bathtub, on an airplane, or simply during your own early morning \\"think time.\\"	2003-06-05
US	37818376	R3SM31UYZZSQNH	0374107319	769020236	The Autobiography of My Mother	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Skillful Characterization, Writing, and Description	The Autobiography of My Mother is not an autobiography at all, and it is not even solely about a mother. It is actually a novel about a woman whose mother died when she was being born. This first life event, which is also the first event the narrator tells the reader about in the story, is a powerful force that shapes the narrator's life.<br />Not only does narrator (Xuela) not have a mother, but she feels that she does not actually have a country, a homeland. She lives on the island of Antigua, which is only twelve miles long and nine miles long. The culture of her people was stolen by their English colonizers, and the only culture they now know is that of England.<br />In my opinion, there are times in the book when the narrator is self-pitying and repetitive. I do think, however, that this is in keeping with her character. The book is written as if Xuela is sitting down with the reader and telling him or her her life story, and Xuela would definitely be a character who would repeat and overemphasize the bad parts just so the person listening would get the point.<br />I also found fault with the narrator because she was very hyprocritical. She critized her father's actions and attitude about life, but then she acted in simliar ways and had a simliar attitude. The one positive aspect about the main character is that she is a very strong woman who is not afraid to deviate from her society's acceptable ways of behaving.<br />I was surprised that I liked this book so much when I did not like the narrator. I think it is because Kincaid had such an integrity when it came to writing about the main character. She presented all aspects, positive and negative, and didn't only show her in a good light. All aspiring authors can learn a lesson in characterization from reading this book.<br />Kincaid's writing style is very seductive. It pulls you in and makes you not want to get away. I read this book in two long settings because I didn't want to put it down. She has a powerful way of describing people, places, and situations. Her prose is lyrical and truthful - after reading a passage, I wanted to sit back and think about it for awhile, because there was so much truth and beauty to be found in it.<br />This is the first book I have read by Jamaica Kincaid. I am presently reading \\"A Small Place\\", and hope to read the rest of her books in the future. I would recommend this book to anyone, but especially to writers who are interested in reading very high quality writing with strong charactarization and powerful description.	2001-11-16
US	37818376	R2AMH56ZSVD2KC	0394714423	276119081	Psychoanalysis and Feminism	Books	4	1	6	N	N	An excerpt	I just wanted to give an excerpt from this book so that interested buyers can read the main ideas and have a better idea of the author's purpose. This excerpt is from the Introduction: &quot;The greater part of the feminist movement has identified Freud as the enemy. It is held that psychoanalysis claims women are infereior and that they can achieve true femininity only as wives and mothers... I would agree that popularized Freudianism must answer to this description; but the argument of this book is that a rejection of psychoanalysis and of Freud's works is fatal for feminism... If we are interested in understanding and challenging the oppression of women, we cannot afford to neglect it.&quot;<br />In general this is an important work for anyone interested in Feminism or Psychology to read. The points that Mitchell makes are applicable for anyone in these fields.	2001-10-17
US	37818376	R4Z7UWVXBD7Z2	0394714423	276119081	Psychoanalysis and Feminism	Books	4	11	15	N	N	An excerpt	I just wanted to give an excerpt from this book so that interested buyers can read the main ideas and have a better idea of the author's purpose. This excerpt is from the Introduction: &quot;The greater part of the feminist movement has identified Freud as the enemy. It is held that psychoanalysis claims women are infereior and that they can achieve true femininity only as wives and mothers... I would agree that popularized Freudianism must answer to this description; but the argument of this book is that a rejection of psychoanalysis and of Freud's works is fatal for feminism... If we are interested in understanding and challenging the oppression of women, we cannot afford to neglect it.&quot;<br />In general this is an important work for anyone interested in Feminism or Psychology to read. The points that Mitchell makes are applicable for anyone in these fields.	2001-10-17
US	37818376	RZBDEPL4WMK0Q	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Plot twists will keep you reading!	The Absence of Nectar has a typical villain as its antagonist. This typical villian, Simon Jester, is also a typical evil stepfather. The stereotypical character roles in The Absence of Nectar end here, howeer. The main character, eleven-year-old Alice, is extremely intelligent, and her intelligence extends to witty sarcasm and humorous wise-cracking. She has a close relationship with her thirteen-year-old brother Boone, who in turn has an unhealthy obsession with Persely Snow, a child crinimal from their town who is famous for poisoning her parents. Alice and Boone's mother, Meg, has one unique quality- she is a beekeeper. Other than that, she is a plays the stereotypical weak woman role, and does not know how to subsist without a man by her side. <br />After Boone's and Alice's father leaves their mother for another woman, she becomes bedridden and unresponsive for weeks. As Boone turns to his collection of Persely's newspaper clippings and Alice to her witty sarcasm, their mother slowly begins to recover. On one particularly good day, the three of them go to the lake. It is there that Meg almost drowns when a storm comes while they are on a boat. The man who rescued her, Simon Jester, will become her loer, and her children's nightmare. Although he claims to have almost been a drowning victim himself, and says that his wife and child drowned, it soon becomes clear to Alice and Boone that there is more to his story, and that they want to be as far away from him as possible. <br />Although not advertised as such, The Absence of Nectar is very much like a mystery book, and a good one at that. As the story goes on, there are more and more plot twists, and all of them tie the different characters - Alice, Boone, Persely, Meg, Simon, and even minor characters- together more and more. <br />I did not like this book at first, because I found its language cloying and sickly sweet. I thought that Hepinstall was trying too hard to make Oprah's Book List, and that this was just another &quot;Woe is me&quot; coming-of-age story. However, once I got into the book, my opinion changed completely. The plot is sophisticated and very well laid out, and that kept me interested the whole way through. Many of the characters were easy to identify with. I found that Alice in particular was very three-dimensional, and that Hepinstall did a great job at creating a unique adolescent character, which is a hard task to do in the midst of so many carbon-copied preteens and teenagers appearing in books. She risked a lot by telling the story from Alice's point of view, but in my opinion it greatly paid off. Alice's tone is very convincing and sincere, her it was very easy to sympathesize with her plight. Her close relationship to her brother was also very believable. In the beginning of the book, she is a little sister who looks up to her brother. As the story progresses and both of them grow, it is she who looks after him and worries about him. Finally, she must find her own way to work out her mixed feelings about replacement, rejection, and confusion as she watches him fall in love for the first time. These complicated emotions make Alice a very real character that I felt like I know, or would like to know, in real life. I also admired her intelligence and courage. She brought humor into otherwise tense situations. For instance, Boone and Alice have a dog named Numbhead, because of how stupid he is. One day, however, Numbhead runs away, and ends up in town, where Alice's father lives with his new wife: <BR>&quot;'Isn't it a miracle,' said Boone, 'that Numbhead found Daddy's house?' <BR>'He's like Lassie!' Meg chimed in. <BR>'Oh please,' I said. 'Don't insult the memory of Lassie.' <BR>Boone took my arm and led me into the living room so he could speak to me alone. His eyes were shining. 'Do you know what this means? Numbhead knows we're in trouble so he's asking Dad for help the only way he knows how. Maybe Numbhead is our savior.' 'Please don't compareNumbhead to Jesus again. Jesus doesn't press his big wet nose against people's windows at night.'&quot; <br />An annoying aspect about the book is Hepinstall's tendency to over-foreshadow. For example, she occasionally writes things as, &quot;I felt a sudden relief at the thought of this new escape routep one that would be cut off later.&quot; This takes away from the suspence of the book, and doesn't allow readers to find out this information on their own. <br />A fascinating aspect of the story, however, is its theme of God versus fate. Boone represents an innocent, almost naive belief in God. Alice knows him as her gentle and kind kid brother who wouldn't ever do anything wrong. Simon, on the other hand, represents religion when it becomes corrupted. He claims he is &quot;God's megaphone&quot;, and a &quot;shepherd to God's sheep&quot;. In reality, however, he is a bully who uses his influence to be cruel to people. At first his cruelty is subtle, as he does small things to Alice and Boone to let them know he doesn't like them. (&quot;You should be mad at God&quot;, Alice tells Boone after Simon throws his treasured butterfly collection in the fire, &quot;His megaphone burned your butterflies.&quot;) Then, it is revealed more and more as Alice and Boone find out more about his real story. Alice represents an intelligent reasoning for the truth, as she doesn't believe in Boone's God but does believe in living a moral life. Persely, on the other end of the spectrum, represents a disobedient and crazy unbeliever, so mad at the God she once believed in for not helping her when she needed it that she regularly denounces him and anyone else who dares to get in his way. All of this leads Boone to reevaluate his beliefs as he sees people whom he thought were good do bad things, and people whom he thought were bad do good things. The lesson of the book seems to be that there are no absolutes, and that everyone has a responsiblity to make their own destinay. <br />This novel is a good portrait of human emotions and struggles. Its main characters are children, but they are wiser than some adults and experience a lot more than most adults do. Although it is easy reading, it is witty and thought-provoking, and it will be hard to forget.	2001-09-30
US	37818376	R2SC7ESMA3BMJC	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Not Just Another Coming of Age Novel	The Absence of Nectar has a typical villain as its antagonist. This typical villian, Simon Jester, is also a typical evil stepfather. The stereotypical character roles in The Absence of Nectar end here, howeer. The main character, eleven-year-old Alice, is extremely intelligent, and her intelligence extends to witty sarcasm and humorous wise-cracking. She has a close relationship with her thirteen-year-old brother Boone, who in turn has an unhealthy obsession with Persely Snow, a child crinimal from their town who is famous for poisoning her parents. Alice and Boone's mother, Meg, has one unique quality- she is a beekeeper. Other than that, she is a plays the stereotypical weak woman role, and does not know how to subsist without a man by her side.<br />After Boone's and Alice's father leaves their mother for another woman, she becomes bedridden and unresponsive for weeks. As Boone turns to his collection of Persely's newspaper clippings and Alice to her witty sarcasm, their mother slowly begins to recover. On one particularly good day, the three of them go to the lake. It is there that Meg almost drowns when a storm comes while they are on a boat. The man who rescued her, Simon Jester, will become her loer, and her children's nightmare. Although he claims to have almost been a drowning victim himself, and says that his wife and child drowned, it soon becomes clear to Alice and Boone that there is more to his story, and that they want to be as far away from him as possible.<br />Although not advertised as such, The Absence of Nectar is very much like a mystery book, and a good one at that. As the story goes on, there are more and more plot twists, and all of them tie the different characters - Alice, Boone, Persely, Meg, Simon, and even minor characters- together more and more.<br />I did not like this book at first, because I found its language cloying and sickly sweet. I thought that Hepinstall was trying too hard to make Oprah's Book List, and that this was justanother &quot;Woe is me&quot; coming-of-age story. However, once I got into the book, my opinion changed completely. The plot is sophisticated and very well laid out, and that kept me interested the whole way through. Many of the characters were easy to identify with. I found that Alice in particular was very three-dimensional, and that Hepinstall did a great job at creating a unique adolescent character, which is a hard task to do in the midst of so many carbon-copied preteens and teenagers appearing in books. She risked a lot by telling the story from Alice's point of view, but in my opinion it greatly paid off. Alice's tone is very convincing and sincere, her it was very easy to sympathesize with her plight. Her close relationship to her brother was also very believable. In the beginning of the book, she is a little sister who looks up to her brother. As the story progresses and both of them grow, it is she who looks after him and worries about him. Finally, she must find her own way to work out her mixed feelings about replacement, rejection, and confusion as she watches him fall in love for the first time. These complicated emotions make Alice a very real character that I felt like I know, or would like to know, in real life. I also admired her intelligence and courage. She brought humor into otherwise tense situations. For instance, Boone and Alice have a dog named Numbhead, because of how stupid he is. One day, however, Numbhead runs away, and ends up in town, where Alice's father lives with his new wife: <BR>&quot;'Isn't it a miracle,' said Boone, 'that Numbhead found Daddy's house?'<BR>'He's like Lassie!' Meg chimed in.<BR>'Oh please,' I said. 'Don't insult the memory of Lassie.'<BR>Boone took my arm and led me into the living room so he could speak to me alone. His eyes were shining. 'Do you know what this means? Numbhead knows we're in trouble so he's asking Dad for help the only way he knows how. Maybe Numbhead is our savior.' 'Please don't compare Numbhead to Jesus again. Jesus doesn't press his big wet nose against people's windows at night.'&quot;<br />An annoying aspect about the book is Hepinstall's tendency to over-foreshadow. For example, she occasionally writes things as, &quot;I felt a sudden relief at the thought of this new escape routep one that would be cut off later.&quot; This takes away from the suspence of the book, and doesn't allow readers to find out this information on their own.<br />A fascinating aspect of the story, however, is its theme of God versus fate. Boone represents an innocent, almost naive belief in God. Alice knows him as her gentle and kind kid brother who wouldn't ever do anything wrong. Simon, on the other hand, represents religion when it becomes corrupted. He claims he is &quot;God's megaphone&quot;, and a &quot;shepherd to God's sheep&quot;. In reality, however, he is a bully who uses his influence to be cruel to people. At first his cruelty is subtle, as he does small things to Alice and Boone to let them know he doesn't like them. (&quot;You should be mad at God&quot;, Alice tells Boone after Simon throws his treasured butterfly collection in the fire, &quot;His megaphone burned your butterflies.&quot;) Then, it is revealed more and more as Alice and Boone find out more about his real story. Alice represents an intelligent reasoning for the truth, as she doesn't believe in Boone's God but does believe in living a moral life. Persely, on the other end of the spectrum, represents a disobedient and crazy unbeliever, so mad at the God she once believed in for not helping her when she needed it that she regularly denounces him and anyone else who dares to get in his way. All of this leads Boone to reevaluate his beliefs as he sees people whom he thought were good do bad things, and people whom he thought were bad do good things. The lesson of the book seems to be that there are no absolutes, and that everyone has a responsiblity to make their own destinay.<br />This novel is agood portrait of human emotions and struggles. Its main characters are children, but they are wiser than some adults and experience a lot more than most adults do. Although it is easy reading, it is witty and thought-provoking, and it will be hard to forget.	2001-09-28
US	37818376	R1SER9FAGPN531	015601064X	279597616	Six Figures	Books	5	1	2	N	N	High quality writing and a fast-paced plot	When Six Figures appeared in my mailbox and I read the back cover, I was excited about reading the whole thing. The author, Fred G. Leebron, sounded as if he some real literary talent. He is a writing professor at Gettysburg College, and was once the director of the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown, Massachusetts. Mr. Leebron is also the recipient of a Fulbright scholarship, a Pushcart Prize, and an O. Henry Award, among others. No matter what he was writing about in Six Figures, I figured it would be good.<br />I was certainly not disappointed. Leebron has a fresh style and a captivating tone. His book has the rare combination of both high literary quality and exciting fast-paced suspense. I started reading this book while on a train from Mannheim to Luxembourg City, and I was literally unable to put the book down except for when I absolutely had to, meaning when I had to change trains and then get off.... I felt like I knew the characters intimately, and that I couldn't rest until I found out what happened to them. On the train ride back I finished the book, and although it is easy to read in one or two settings, that doesn't mean it's easy or low quality writing. In fact, it is just the opposite....<br />The theme of Six Figures is one that we are all familiar with: the struggle to balance happiness and love without the convenience of money and security. The main character is Warner Lutz, who is climbing the corporate ladder by way of the non-profit social services rungs. He is married to Megan, who is the director of an art museum, and is the father of four-year-old Sophie and baby Daniel. Although this seems like a picture perfect life, it has its murky spots.... Nothing is good about their lives because they don't have the luxury lifestyle that many people in their new community of Charleston have. What is worse, the jobs that they moved to Charleston to get become shaky as both are faced with the possibility of termination....<br />The monotony of this envy and hostility-filled life is interrupted when Megan is suddenly brutally attacked at the museum where she works. Warner is shocked to find himself as the prime suspect, and even more shocked to find out that everyone - from his own parents to Megan's parents to people he works with - think he really is the one who did it.... The reasons for his actions and feelings are never quite fully revealed, which is one critique I found about the book. It was disappointing to read how his relationship with his parents is so bad, how he can't get along with his mother-in-law, and how he has never succeeded at work, without ever fully finding out why he is this sort of person.... Sophie was not a very convincing character to me, because I felt her dialogue was more of an eight or ten-year-old child rather than that of a learning-challenged four-year-old.<br />Besides for these small complaints, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The characters are realistic and the plot engaging. Reading this book was like visiting a real-life family and watching their world fall apart before my very eyes. I would recommend it to anyone who is looking for both great literature and fun entertainment.	2001-07-31
US	37818376	R1HXWVF2RT3TI5	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You Won't Forget This Setting or These Characters!	Cannery Row is almost like a book of short stories. There are some central stories that follow main characters, such as a gang of jobless, penniless hooligans known as \\"Mack and the Boys\\", and a marine biologist named Doc, but interspersed between these chapters are very short tales about everything from two sailors on a date with two blondes to a gopher who decides to build his home under the ground on Cannery Row. Steinbeck explains this story-telling format in the first chapter by asking the reader, in terms that warn the reader of his similarity to the character of Doc in the novel: ...<br />The style of the Cannery Row - like most of John Steinbeck's fiction- is easy to read and free-flowing, which can be deceptive, because the characters and themes are quite deep. Take Mack and the Boys, a group of friends the town views as worthless, though friendly and fun-loving, do-nothings. A  lot of the book centers on their attempts to do good things that continually turn out bad. ...\\"<br />In this way Mack and the Boys seem like simple, pitiful characters. However, Steinback uses them as examples of people who are truly content with themselves and their lives, and who don't try to rely on money to achieve happiness. ...<br />Because of his ability to show the humanity of all his characters, even those viewed negatively by others, Steinbeck has a true gift of characterization. This is also seen in Doc, a good character whom everyone in Cannery Row likes and relies on. Although he has many friends and allies, Doc is portrayed as a lonely, solitary man who is more at home while dissecting animals or reading books than at the bar or a party with his friends. Doc's character comes to life near the end of the book when Mac and his friends finally throw him a successful party and for the first time in the novel he relaxes and lets himself go while in the presence of other people. There is also a mentally challenged child named Frankie who shows Doc what real love is, and thisis a good way to show that although many people can need and want a person, very few actually care for him or her unconditionally.<br />Steinbeck's literary gifts do not stop at characterization of people. He constantly uses personification throughout the novel, so that animals seems as real as the other characters. And of course, by titling the novel Cannery Row, Steinbeck promises readers a great description of the setting and surroundings of the novel, and he does not disappoint them. I have been to Cannery Row and although it has changed a lot since Steinbeck's novel was published in 1945, I am still able see it come to life again in my mind while reading the novel. Anyone finding the first paragraph intriguing will be just as intrigued by the end of Cannery Row, because John Steinbeck expertly shows all of these things and more throughout the entire work.	2001-07-01
US	37818376	R90NJEIJLMCF7	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	5	5	7	N	N	You won't forget this setting or these characters...	Cannery Row is almost like a book of short stories. There are some central stories that follow main characters, such as a gang of jobless, penniless hooligans known as \\"Mack and the Boys\\", and a marine biologist named Doc, but interspersed between these chapters are very short tales about everything from two sailors on a date with two blondes to a gopher who decides to build his home under the ground on Cannery Row. Steinbeck explains this story-telling format in the first chapter by asking the reader, in terms that warn the reader of his similarity to the character of Doc in the novel: \\"How can the poem and the stink and the grating noise - the quality of light, the tone, the habit and the dream - be set down alive? When you collect marine animals there are certain flat worms so delicate that they are almost impossible to capture whole, for they break and tatter under the touch. You must let them ooze and crawl of their own will onto a knife blade and then lift them gently into your bottle of sea water. And perhaps that might be way to write this book - to open the page and to let the stories crawl in by themselves.\\" <br />The style of the Cannery Row - like most of John Steinbeck's fiction- is easy to read and free-flowing, which can be deceptive, because the characters and themes are quite deep. Take Mack and the Boys, a group of friends the town views as worthless, though friendly and fun-loving, do-nothings. A lot of the book centers on their attempts to do good things that continually turn out bad. As Mack tells Doc after a surprise party for him turns into a disaster that all but ruins his laboratory, \\"I been sorry all my life. This ain't no new thing. It's always like this... Ever'thing I done turned sour.. If I done a good thing it got poisoned up some way... I don't do nothin' but clown no more. Try to make the boys laugh.\\"<br />In this way Mack and the Boys seem like simple, pitiful characters. However, Steinback uses them as examples of people who are truly content with themselves and their lives, and who don't try to rely on money to achieve happiness. As Doc describes them to his friend Robert Frost, \\"Look at them. There are your true philosophers. I think... that Mack and the boys know everything that has ever happened in this world and possibly everything that will happen. I think they survive in this particular world better than other people. In a time when people tear themselves to pieces with ambition and nervousness and covetousness, they are relaxed... They could ruin their lives and get money... They're all very clever if they want something. They just know the nature of things too well to be caught in that wanting.\\"<br />Because of his ability to show the humanity of all his characters, even those viewed negatively by others, Steinbeck has a true gift of characterization. This is also seen in Doc, a good character whom everyone in Cannery Row likes and relies on. Although he has many friends and allies, Doc is portrayed as a lonely, solitary man who is more at home while dissecting animals or reading books than at the bar or a party with his friends. Doc's character comes to life near the end of the book when Mac and his friends finally throw him a successful party and for the first time in the novel he relaxes and lets himself go while in the presence of other people. There is also a mentally challenged child named Frankie who shows Doc what real love is, and this is a good way to show that although many people can need and want a person, very few actually care for him or her unconditionally.<br />Steinbeck's literary gifts do not stop at characterization of people. He constantly uses personification throughout the novel, so that animals seems as real as the other characters. And of course, by titling the novel Cannery Row, Steinbeck promises readers a great description of the setting and surroundings of the novel, and he does not disappoint them. I have been to Cannery Row and although it has changed alot since Steinbeck's novel was published in 1945, I am still able see it come to life again in my mind while reading the novel. Steinbeck begins it with this description of Cannery Row:<br />\\"Cannery Row in Monterey in California is a poem, a stink, a grating noise, a quality of light, a tone, a habit, a nostalgia, a dream. Cannery Row is the gathered and scattered, tin and iron and rust and splintered wood, chipped pavement and weedy lots and junk heaps, sardine canneries of corrugated iron, honky tonks, restaurants and wh--e houses, and little crowded groceries, and laboratories and flophouses. Its inhabitants are, as the man once said, 'wh--s, pi--s, gamblers, and sons of bi----s,' by which he meant Everybody. Had the man looked through another peephole he might have said, \\"Saints and angels and martyrs and holy men,' and he would have meant the same thing.\\"<br />This is a powerful description of Cannery Row and the characters who live within it, and Steinbeck tells the reader all about the place, time, and people throughout the novel. Anyone finding the first paragraph intriguing will be just as intrigued by the end of Cannery Row, because John Steinbeck expertly shows all of these things and more throughout the entire work....	2001-06-23
US	37818376	R1X1LK4G0IANA8	0684822636	755565968	Inventing Herself: Claiming a Feminist Intellectual Heritage	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Personal and Political Feminism	....P>She is also the author and editor of a number of books. In March of 2001 her newest book, Inventing Herself : Claiming a Feminist Intellectual Heritage was published, and it is also an examination of the personal and political realms of Feminism. In it, she illustrates the lives of some of her personal heroines, women who have lived from the 18th Century on and whom have contributed to women's rights. She starts out with Mary Wollstonecraft, whose revolutionary book Vindication on the Rights of Women was one of the first pieces of feminist writing, and ends with modern heroines like Hillary Clinton, Princess Diana, and Oprah Winfrey. With each woman's story, she not only shows what they did to change politics and society, but also how their personal lives had an effect on those of other women living during that time.<br />Elaine Showalter, whether writing about Janis Joplin or Germaine Greer, always draws similarities between the public importance and personal apprecation of feminism. It is obvious to the reader of her words that she has treasured feminism in her own life and wants to share it with others. Her book will inspire and motivate you....	2001-06-19
US	37818376	R39CLMA8H78E8C	0156787334	891560072	A Room of One's Own	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Witty and Intelligent Argument on Behalf of Female Writers	Virginia Woolf is a writer of intelligence and grace. A Room of One's Own is a skinny little treasure of a book with words and wisdom that will stay with the reader long after it is read. The essay contained in the book is the result of two papers that Ms. Woolf read to the Arts Society at newnham and Odtaa at Girton (England) in October of 1928. She was asked to speak about the topic of \\"Women and Fiction\\", and after doing so, she expanded her papers and later published them as this book.<br />Woolf begins the essay by writing, \\"I soon saw that [the subject of women and fiction] had one fatal drawback. I should never be able to come to a conclusion. I should never be able to fulfil what is, I understand, the first duty of a lecturer- to hand you after an hour's discourse a nugget of pure truth to wrap up between the pages of your notebooks and keep on the mantelpiece for ever. All I could do was to offer you an opinion upon one minor point- a woman must have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction... At any rate, when a subject is highly controversial- and any question about sex is that- one cannot hope to tell the truth. One can only show how one came to hold whatever opionion one does hold. One can only give one's audience the chance of drawing their own conslusions as they observe the limitations, the prejudices, the idiosyncrasies of the speaker.\\"<br />It is in this straightforward and honest manner that Woolf writes about women and fiction. Although the speech was given and the book was published in 1929, all of its points are still important for women- and especially women writers and artists- today. In A Room of One's Own Woolf examines classic literary works of the past and wonders why most, until the 19th Century, were written by men, and why most of the works published by women in the 19th Century were fiction. She comes to the logical conclusion that women in the past had little to no time to write because of their childbearing and raising responsibilities. There is also the fact that they were not educated and were forbidden or discouraged from writing. When they did begin to write, they only had the common sitting rooms of Elizabethan homes to do so in, which did not provide much solitude or peace of mind, as it was open to any interruption and distraction that came along.<br />Woolf argues passionately that true independence comes with economic well-being. This is true for countries, governments, individuals, and writers, especially female writers. Without financial security it is impossible for any writer to have the luxury of writing for writing's sake. It is also a very inspiring book for any aspiring write to read. I end this review with Virginia Woolf's own hopes for women in the future:<br />\\"... I would ask you to write all kinds of books, hesitating at no subject however trivial or however vast. By hook or by crook, I hope that you will possess yourselves of money enough to travel and to idle, to contemplate the future or the past of the world, to dream over books and loiter at street corners and let the line of thought dip deep into the stream.\\"<br />(If you liked this review, please read my other book reviews under my Amazon profile...)responsibilities. There is also the fact that they were not educated and were forbidden or discouraged from writing. When they did begin to write, they only had the common sitting rooms of Elizabethan homes to do so in, which did not provide much solitude or peace of mind, as it was open to any interruption and distraction that came along.<br />Woolf argues passionately that true independence comes with economic well-being. This is true for countries, governments, individuals, and writers, especially female writers. Without financial security it is impossible for any writer to have the luxury of writing for writing's sake. It is also a very inspiring book for any aspiring write to read. I end this review with Virginia Woolf's own hopes for women in the future:<br />\\"... I would ask you to write all kinds of books, hesitating at no subject however trivial or however vast. By hook or by crook, I hope that you will possess yourselves of money enough to travel and to idle, to contemplate the future or the past of the world, to dream over books and loiter at street corners and let the line of thought dip deep into the stream.\\" <br />(If you liked this review, please read my other book reviews under my Amazon profile...)	2001-06-07
US	37818376	R1D3LP1Z7X131T	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Book for Readers and Writers Alike	I'll admit it: I'm not Stephen King's greatest fan. On Writing is only the second book I've read by him (the first being Rose Madder, many years ago), and I only picked it up because I was interested in what he had to say about the writing process. However, in regard to King's fiction writing skill, I never thought he was a bad author; in fact, among all the authors who show up on those tacky &quot;Bestsellers Shelves&quot; at grocery and convenience store racks, he is the one I would consider to be the most consistentely literate and skilled in his writing style. The horror genre is just one that happens to capture readers' attention and therefore sell more; therefore, I never really held his popular success against him as some snotty (in my opinion) literary critics do.<br />Whatever we learn from any writer, however, is most likely subjective and its value can be questioned. What do we want to learn from Stephen King? How to write just like him? Hopefully not, and he does not try to teach this. How to write horror stories? Maybe, but this is not all of what he teaches, or even most of it.<br />When it comes down to it, I picked the book up because I was interested in reading about King's life, as with any author's life; what makes a person a writer? What early experiences led them to want to write or know they were going to write? - writers and readers ask questions such as these about all writers. King did a great job, in my opinion, of sharing these thing with us. The first half in On Writing is an autobiography of sorts, but is more of what King subtitles his book, &quot;A Memory on the Craft&quot; than any kind of general life autobiography. Any aspiring (not to mention starving!) writer can sympathesize with King's early attempts of getting his short stories published in small magazines, and can empathesize with his living situations before he started making money from his writing. I found this half to be the most interesting of the book as it was a glimpseinto a famous author's life.<br />The second half is advice on writing. I liked much of it, and there are a few things that stick with me strongly a week or so after I put the book down for the last time. King's chastisement on those who use the passive voice, for instance, and his pet peeve- those who use adverbs too much in their dialogue in order to express the character's feelings (&quot;What do you mean?&quot; asked Jill pensively. &quot;Not what you think!&quot; yelled Joe excitedly - is one piece of such dialogue King would hate) are the two that come most readily to mind. As for his other advice... well, all writers are different, and I would admittedly probably take advice from a master like Faulkner much more readily and with less skepticism than I do that from King. The most annoying thing for me while reading On Writing was King's tendency to criticize other writers and books - even well-written and renowned books such as the Lord of the Flies! - in order to show a writer what not to do in her or his work. I feel this could have been expressed much more efficently - and ethically - with examples of King's own work, either published or unpublished, where he feels readers can learn from his mistakes. There is no need to put other authors down just to bulid oneself up. The best part of his writing advice for me was the nuts-and-bolts stuff: how to present a manuscript to a possible publisher, where to find markets, how to find the dedication to keep writing when one lacks the determination and inspiration, etc. Since King is obviously a successful writer - not only with his words but with his marketing skill - these are concrete pieces of advice to pass down to aspiring writers, unlike subjective comments about writing and authors.<br />Overall I think that On Writing delivers what it promises, which is a memoir of an author's life for his readers, as well as writing advice for aspiring writers. For this reason I recommend the vast majority of this smooth-flowing book to both readers and writers. Just watch out for the occasional bumpy spots along the way. ...	2001-04-17
US	37818376	R1XZ48BYSD4WJY	0609607588	324108256	How Jane Won: 55 Successful Women Share How They Grew from Ordinary Girls to Extraordinary Women	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Inspiring Stories of Successful Women	In &quot;See Jane Win&quot;, Dr. Sylvia Rimm and Dr. Sara Rimm-Kaufman studied and reported on 1,100 successful women. The women, who had indicated that they were happy with both their home and career lives, filled out survies about their lives. The results, which included such findings as biggest role models, birth orders, schools attended and activities participated in while young, served parents with information on possible ways to raise daughters. The short anecdotes about several survey participants served girls and young women with inspirational mini-biographies about women who had become what they themselves define as successful.<br />&quot;How Jane Won&quot;, subtitled &quot;55 Successful Women Share How They Grew from Ordinary Girls to Extraordinary Women&quot; includes more autobiographies by such women. The book is divided into six sections of careers: the Lawmakers and Adjudicators, the Shatterers of Glass Ceilings, the Healers and Discoverers, the Nurturers, the Artists and Musicians, and the Communicators. Women telling their life stories range from astranauts to homemakers, and include Christina Whitman (Governor of New Jersey), Nydia M. Velazquez (US Congresswoman), Sandra Day O'Connor, Cathleen Black (President of Hearst Magazines), Eileen COllins (NASA Astrnaut and Space Shuttle Commander), Alexa Canady, M.D. (Pediatric Nerosurgeon), Martha Aarons (Flutist with the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra), Jane Pauley (Anchor, NBC News and Dateline), Florence Henderson (Brady Bunch actress), and Jacqauleyn Mitchard (bestselling author).<br />Although one would fear this book would turn into a Chicken Soup for the Feminist Soul, most of the stories do an amazing job of staying on the practical and real side instead of the corny and romantic one. Most of the stories are insprirational yet helpful. Many girls would be inspired by reading about the lives of these successful women, and many women who wish to advance in their own education or career would also findthese stories interesting.<br />One important thing many women in the book point out is how hard it was for them in the beginning of their career, before women had won many of the rights and status we too often take for granted. Cathleen Black, President of Hearst Magazines, writes  &quot;When I talk to teenage girls, it's hard for them to imagine that these opportunities didn't always exist. I dont' know that it's real for them. They're skeptical when I tell them they couldn't have gotten a loan or gone to Harvard in my era.&quot; Likewise, Katherine Hudson, President and CEO of Brady Corportation, writes, &quot;When I wrote my resume, I wasn't sure what I wanted to do. None of the companies were interested in my doing financial work, despite my gruaduatin first in the class. The salary offers were for about half of what the guys in class were being offered. This was in 1968, before affirmative action.&quot;<br />A positive point about &quot;How Jane Won&quot; is that it advoids the materialism found in &quot;See Jane Win&quot;. The biggest critique of that book is that women were defined as successful almost exclusively when they held jobs women were previously unable to or when they made a great amount of money. In &quot;How Jane Won&quot;, however, the women who share their stories may or not be financially successful, but they are successful because they are happy. Women who hold &quot;traditional&quot; jobs like teachers, nurses, and homemakers are not excluded like they are in most of &quot;See Jane Win&quot;, and this sends the important message that girls can and should do whatever makes them happiest, whether that is becoming a nuclear physicist or a street musician.<br />One critique that can be made of &quot;How Jane Won&quot;, however, is its exclusion of &quot;untraditional&quot; family women: women who do not marry at all or who are lesbians. There is one lesbian whose story is included, as well as a few women who never had children, but besides forthis the emphasis seems to be that women are only successful when they are not only happy with their work but when they also have a &quot;typical, all-American&quot; family system. It would be nice to see greater diversity in the See Jane Win series, if there are to be any more in the future.<br />Instead of being overloaded with cheesiness as one might expect, most of &quot;How Jane Won&quot; is full of practical advice and inspiration. Both girls and parents alike will find themselves liking and rereading certain stories they find most relevant to their lives, and this will positively influence many readers. ...	2001-04-17
US	37818376	R2JLS9LV6Q2GSC	0853459185	446372169	Shadows of Tender Fury	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An important and informing book about the Zapatista uprising	Reading the letters and communiques of Marcos contained in Shadows of Tender Fury made me feel incredibly sympathetic for the indigenous people of Chiapas. I felt outraged at the injustice done to them by the Mexican government and the rich ranchers in the area. I found Marcos' tone to be comical despite the dreadful situations he was writing about. For instance, he writes the elaborate PS's and rambles about things with little relevance and tells stories about animals, etc. This gives some lightness to the very heavy subject matter addressed in the book and adds some comic relief. I also thought it was kind of him to respond to everyone who wrote to him, even if they were small children. By the end of the book I liked Marcos' personality from what I glimpsed of it in his tone, and I was impressed at the noble cause he had taken on.<br />The one problem I had with this book is not a fault of the writer's but of the editor's. Marcos' letters are repetitive and long, and I feel that much could have been cut out and Shadows of Tender Fury would still be a good book that encompassed most of Marcos' letters and ideas. However, with so much repetition the book starts to get tedious. Some heavy editing would have made a big difference.<br />In general I think that Shadows of Tender Fury is an important contribution to Latin American literature because it details the fight of the Zapatistas and chronicles their events. It also draws support from a much larger community, for I read it in the northeastern US although it is occurring in southeastern Mexico. I did not know very much about the indigenous fight before reading this book so I am glad I did and recommend it to others. <br />(If you enjoyed my book review please see my others here at amazon.com under my username neeterskeeter.  Or, visit my homepage neeterskeeter.com, or bellaonline.com, where I write the Feminism column, for more of my book reviews and writing.  I welcome any comments via email. Thanks!)	2001-01-19
US	37818376	R164CFMGSCQG3M	067976657X	579621568	Krik? Krak!	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Stories About Haitian(-Americans) During War-Torn Haiti	The first thing that came to my mind while reading Edwidge Danticat's collection Krik? Krak! is that it is pure poetry. The first lines in &quot;Children of the Sea&quot;, the first short story in the collection, are &quot;They say behind the mountains are more mountains. Now I know it's true. I also know there are timeless waters, endless seas, and lots of people in this world whose names don't matter to anyone but themselves.&quot; The lyrical poetic style is consistent throughout all of Danticat's prose, which makes Krik? Krak! an easy and beautiful book to read despite the heavy issues addressed in each story within it. In Haiti a story-teller will say &quot;Krik?&quot; and anyone wishing to hear the story answers, &quot;Krak!&quot; and this is the basis for many of the stories Danticat writes.<br />And many important themes are dealt with in these deceptively simple stories. Most of them encompass three main issues: Poverty and hard times in Haiti, mother and daughter relationships and the self-awareness brought to each because of them, and the transition of immigrants. In Haiti a story-teller will say &quot;Krik?&quot; and anyone wishing to hear the story answers, &quot;Krak!&quot; and this is the basis for many of the stories Danticat writes. Although each story can be easily summarized, the underlying theme and unexpected conclusions reveal much more about life, especially a life of poverty and despair.<br />In &quot;Children of the Sea&quot;, a young man on a ship from Haiti to the US writes letters to his girlfriend and Haiti and she writes letters to him, although they cannot send them to each other. In &quot;Nineteen Thirty-Seven&quot;, a girl visits her mother, who is in prison for being accused of witch-craft. &quot;A Wall of Fire Rising&quot; is in interesting perception of poverty, in which a mother and afather trying to raise their young boy in a happy environment face insurmountable pressures. The central character in &quot;Night Women&quot; is a mother who works as a prostitute in order to support her son while in &quot;Between the Pool and the Gardenias&quot; it is a young sterile woman who greatly desires a child even among the poverty and distress so many young children face in Haiti. A young motherless girl befriends an American journalist during the war in Haiti in &quot;The Missing Peacce&quot; and another young girl is painted naked by a French artist in &quot;Seeing Things Simply&quot;. A woman randomly sees her mother walking down the street in New York City in &quot;New York Day Women&quot; and realizes that she has a life unto herself, while in &quot;Caroline's Wedding&quot;, the longest and last short story in the book, a daugther gets married to a man her mother disapproves of because he is not Haitian.<br />Perhaps the most poignant part of &quot;Krik? Krak!&quot; is the epilogue which reveals why Edwidge Danticat, the young author of the book, writes these stories. For her and many other women they represent an oral history passed down from mother to daughter, and from that daughter to her daughter and so on. Each short story in this book is an example of such a rich oral tradition and is a very convincing glimpse into the lives of some Haitians and Haitian-Americans. If you read Krik? Krak! and discover that you like it as much as I did, and are interested in more books dealing with a mother/daughter and/or immigration theme, I also recommend &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot; by Amy Tan, &quot;Two Novellas: First Love and Look for my Obituary&quot; by Elena Garro, &quot;Our House in the Last World&quot; by Oscar Hijuelos, and &quot;White Oleander&quot; by Janet Fitch. ...	2001-01-18
US	37818376	R3VWOB25AVOTFB	0375500510	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Rebuilding a Life After Living With Abuse	Black and Blue is the first book I read by Anna Quindlen, and it was so good that I immediately wanted to read all her other work. Quindlen is the recipitent of a Pulitzer Prize for her column in the New York Times, and her great writing style carries over into her fiction. Add that to an exciting, moving plot and this was one book I just couldn't manage to put down until I had finished it.<br />Although several months have passed since I have read this book, I still remember the way it captured me. I was studying in Madrid at the time and I read it on a bus trip to Alicante. I was so immersed in it that I forgot to pay attention to where my friend and I were headed, as well as to my friend herself! She kept asking me why I was so distracted and I would tell her that when I wasn't reading Black and Blue I was thinking about it, that it was so real it felt like I was actually a character in it. When we arrived in Alicante and were laying out on the beach I fell asleep, and she woke me up to ask if she could read my book for awhile. I agree and went back to sleep for about an hour, and when I woke up again she was as immersed in the book as I was, and it was a constant battle to figure out who was going to read it and finish it first. Everyone I have recommended the book to since has had the same reaction as my friend and I did, so I feel that this is a great book to read and recommend to others.<br />The main character is Fran Benedetoo, who has an abusive husband and a young son. The story opens when Fran and Bobby, her son, are at a train station in a desperate attempt to escape Robert, Bobby's son and Fran's husband. The drama that unfolds centers on the new life in hiding that Fran and Bobby are forced to build for themselves, and although Fran is relieved to be away from Robert, she is constantly afraid that he will find out where they are and hurt her or take Bobby away from him. The events that do take place are horrifying and really made me think about what life is like for real-life women in situations like Fran. I don't think anyone can read this book without thinking about the serious implications that a woman's choice - either to stay with an abusive husband or live a life in hiding once running away - has for her and her children.<br />Black and Blue is a fast and easy read but its topic will make you think. And, if you are like me, you will be interested in reading every word that Quindlen has published after finishing this novel.  ...	2001-01-18
US	37818376	R307Y14P5U0TV8	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Simplistic Writing Style, Important and Powerful Issues.	The Joy Luck Club is a classic book in Twentieth Century American Literature, and Asain-American literature. It follows the lives of four Chinese women in China during the 40's as well as their American-born daughters in California a generation later. The characters are Suyuan Woo and her daughter Jing-mei (who goes by &quot;June&quot;), An-mei Hsu and her daughter Rose Hsu Jordan, Lindo Jong and her daughter Waverly, and Ying-ying St. Clair and her daughter Lena. It is almost like a book of short stories, because each woman (and daughter) takes a turn or two at telling a story from her life. Each story eventually connects with other stories, but they can also be read alone and make complete sense. Four stories are grouped into one category, so they all are placed into fitting themes. The first grouping is under &quot;Feathers From a Thousand Li Away&quot;, and deal with the mother's stories of living in China. The next is &quot;The Twenty-Six Malignant Gates&quot;, in which the daughters are introduced and each speaks about her life as an Asian-American, and how each incorporates the legends, stories, and tradition of their mother's countries with modern life in their own. The third grouping is &quot;American Translation&quot;, which delves furhter into the complications of living in two worlds at once. The last grouping is &quot;Queen Mother of the Western Skies&quot; and deals with issues of aging and the loss of innocence.<br />Tan's writing style is quite simplistic but the issues she addresses are important and deep. During the reading of this book one can grasp the contrasts between China and America, and can sense the problems and excitement of a Chinese mother raising an American daughter in a completely different environment than that in which she grew up, as well as being that Asain-American daughter. Another theme addressed in this book is that of mother-daughter relationships. All the relationships in this book are strained, and the women involved misunderstand and misinterpret one another because of the cultural differences even though they have genetic similarities.<br />I am glad I read this famous and often-talked-about book, however the writing style was so simple and the plots so easy to follow that I wish I had read it earlier. I think it would be a good book for teenagers, but if you are an adult who has never read it, I also recommend it to you. The issues addressed within it are timeless and thought-provoking.	2000-12-25
US	37818376	R3L0OBTF7PQDLZ	0684833441	999523883	Lost and Found	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Falls short of its goal	This book does not claim to be anything more than it is: a woman's exploration and dissection of the diary she kept as an adolescent. However, it is somehow less than even that. I expected there to be passages or at least quotes from her diary, followed by present day commentary. However, there were only a few short excerpts from the diary scattered in random and non-fitting places throughout the book. This made me wonder why the author did not just call it a memoir or autobiography, instead of disguising it as journal entries. Which leads to another central problem, which is who wants to spend the time reading a whole book about someone's middle age crises, or childhood and youth for that matter, unless there is some extrodinary reason?<br />Lost and Found is interesting in some parts, but very pompous in others. Isrealoff rambles on about her quite ordinary life and brags about the smallest acheivements, such as receiving good grades on her report card or doing well in gym class. During the parts where she discusses her middle school crushes, the book read like a young romance novel.<br />I was excited when I bought this book and am disappointed in it because I think the author had a lot of potential with this project. For instance, by showing statistics about what issues a lot of adolescent girls face and then revealing passages of her old diary that directly related to these, she could have given an up-front perspective on an example of something of big importance to many young girls and their parents. Even by discussing her diary entries more instead of just writing about what she remembered from her school days, Israeloff could have given the reader an in-depth glimpse into the life of a growing girl. However, Lost and Found is only a mediocre memoir about the author's schoolgirl days, and it does not deliver what it promises to in its description, which is a commentary by a woman looking back on her pre-teen life and the issues of self-esteem she faced then,with excerpts from an old diary to back her up.<br />This book is easy and at some points interesting reading, but it does not do much for understanding young girls.  For something better that relates to understanding and/or raising young girls, I'd recommend See Jane Win.  For better first-person accounts of growing up as a girl, read Listen Up: Voices From the Next Feminist Generation.  And for better memoir/autobiographical experiences, try anything by David Sedaris.	2000-12-03
US	37818376	R24IQFVZ994BOF	0684869357	54338427	Conditions of Faith: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Modern Classic	....Conditions of Faith was written and published in 2000, but itsprose is that of a classic novel of the Victorian age.  The writingstyle is flawless and flows along quite effortlessly.  After so manyhackneyed plots and bad writing styles that continually rotate theBest Sellers racks in department and grocery stores across thecountry, it is refreshing to read such an original, intelligent, andwell-written story as Conditions of Faith.  The plot is veryinteresting and was invented when Miller, a well-loved Australianauthor and winner of the Commonwealth Writers Prize and Australia'smost prestigious literary prize, The Miles Franklin Award, received ajournal his mother left him when she died, which contained only a fewsparse entries.  Another carefully crafted aspect of this novel is thevivid descriptions of both Paris and Tunisia, which make the readerfeel as if she or he were really seeing these places and want toexperience life in France and Africa for him or herself.  Conditionsof Faith is Miller's fifth book, but only the first to be publishedin the United States.  Hopefully more of his work will be publishedhere, because this is a novel that should be treasured by all writersand readers as an example of true literary achievement and skill.	2000-11-27
US	37818376	R10UXG97E0IMZ	1880684519	109525662	First Love & Look for My Obituary: Two Novellas by Elena Garro	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fun reading, important literature.	Two Novellas is a small book with big ideas. Garro addresses very similar ideas in the two novellas, which is why they are published together. In the first novella, First Love, a young girl and her mother, both named Barbara, while on vacation in Paris befriend against everyone's advice a group of German soldiers who are working on a railroad just after World War II. Both mother and daughter are attracted to one of them men named Sigfried, for different reasons. Everyone tells them not to go around these German scoundrels, and the reader knows there will be trouble coming, although exactly what kind of trouble comes is very surprising. In First Love Garro primarily explores the perceptions and stereotypes held by society, and the way these intercept individual freedom. In the second novella, Look For My Obituary, an unhappily married Mexican man named Miguel enconters a frail and lovely girl named Irene, who appears to him out of nowhere and makes his life seem so much better. Miguel wants to run away with Irene because he is desperately in love with her, but she keeps warning him there is danger to come. In Look for My Obituary, Garro explores the theme of marriage as a prison which takes away from the individual's desires and freedoms.<br />Although the plots are quite different, many of themes in the two novellas are similar. Both novellas deal with the themes of love and death, which are two cornerstone themes of all literature. Both could have technically been titled &quot;First Love&quot;: Irene and Miguel discovered love for the first time as did the two Barbaras and Sigfried. Also, both deal with the prohibition of love as well as the constraints of marriage, and the freedom that this social institution takes away from individuals, in terms of their own desire and love. Both novellas are written in a mysterious ways and turn out different than the reader expects them to.<br />Garro has been called the &quot;Greatest writer in Mexico&quot;, and this description suits her perfectly. Her style is very beautiful and moving, and her metaphors have a deep impact. There is a line in Look for My Obituary where Irene tell Miguel, &quot;We are both dead already&quot;, meaning that she is destined to get married to someone she doesn't love and he is trapped in a stale marriage with a woman he no longer loves and who no longer loves him. In this novella, marriage equals burial and love equals death, but these metaphors only merge at the end. It is there that the reader realizes the true implications of the story and of the fates of the two main characters. There is also a great exploration of Magic Realism in the story. It challenges Western limits of rationality and deals with the limits of language and thoughts and the levels of cognition that we have to perceive and explain our world. In Look for My Obituary, Miguel always cried as a child and young man for what was going to be missing in his life because he knew he would someday meet Irene and he was waiting for that day but knowing that even when he met her he would have to keep waiting, and he would never get to have her. This is the essence of Magical Realism and it does not hold up under Western rationalist standards. Western philosophy separates body and mind, reality and imagination. However, in this novella, a very emotional scene is depicted and it is better explained through Magical Realism than through Western attempts at rationalization. Everyone has experienced unfulfilled longings and desires that cannot be reasonably explained, and these things are beautifully depicted in this story.<br />Two Novellas is a fast and fun read, but it has deep impact and great meaning. It provides a good starting point into Elena Garro's work, as well as other great works in Latin American Literature.	2000-11-20
US	37818376	R1UKLXXZL4NQ3Q	0375506039	878470234	Open House	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A great Saturday afternoon read	Elizabeth Berg has been a capturer of everything sentimental, instinctual, and powerful in everyday life since her first novel, Durable Goods, which centers on a twelve-year-old girl dealing with the oncoming of puberty, the abuse of her father, and the death of her mother in a rural Texas town. Only Joy School, the self-contained sequel to Durable Goods deals with another young character, which is in fact Katie, a few years older. The characters of all her other novels are grown women, dealing with just as pressing issues, such as cancer, death, abandonment, divorce, or other hardships. Seeing this pattern, one may be tempted to think that all this sentimentality could get slightly sickening, and that it is one thing to deal with a twelve-year-old's problems from such a simple emotional basis, but quite different to treat a forty-two year old's problems the same way. This did seem to be a slight problem in some of Berg's earlier novels, notably Range of Motion and Pull of the Moon. The observations tended to reach the point of clich&eacute;, and the reader begins to wonder how many deep emotional feelings the author can write about. However, it is easy to forget that adults are simply grown-up children, and sometimes there is little difference between their feelings and reactions. Sometimes adults need to be babied and to be treated like they have a right to explore all their feelings, no matter how corny or clich&eacute;d. The difficulty is finding the perfect balance: exploring the emotions and reactions of an adult in crises without getting overly sentimental or clich&eacute;d. And, finally, Elizabeth Berg achieves this with Open House, an extremely personal novel that mixes the simple with the unexplainable, the pain and the joy of life, the ups and downs of a relationship.<br />Open House is the story of forty-two year old Samantha, whose husband leaves her after twenty-some years of marriage, to pick up the pieces of her life and that of her eleven-year-old son, Travis. This is the classic lose-a-loved-one-find-yourself story, in that Sam eventually realizes she has missed out on so much of life by marrying her husband David right out of college instead of pursuing a career or any other aspect of life apart from him. To ease the heartache and to receive more financial support after he leaves, she opens her house to a series of boarders who show her new viewpoints on life. There is Lydia, an eighty-year-old woman with a close and caring boyfriend, Elaine, a young student who renames herself &quot;Lavender Moon&quot; and holes herself up in the basement being depressed all day, every day, and Edward, a gay hairstylist who teaches Sam the importance of having fun and being herself. Samantha also becomes close friends with the moving man who helped Lydia load her stuff into Sam's house, and he teaches Sam what a real relationship really consists of, which is not the self-sacrificing, never-able-to-measure up love she had with David. And, throughout the period following her divorce, Sam begins to understand her mother's life better, as well as see through her best friend Rita's relationship to her husband, which she had formally always thought was perfect.<br />One of the most important messages the book brings to the reader is the need for women to love themselves and their bodies, at all stages during their life. Sam discovers the importance of this while talking to her eighty-year-old roommate Lydia about trying to find the kind of men in the personal ads at a real live beach. &quot;'[At the beach] there were just families yelling at their kids not to drown and teenagers walking around like billboards, acting as if their bodies would never change. They're so oblivious to the fact that they'll get older. Sometimes I want to grab them and say, 'Hey! I used to look just like you! Ha-ha-HA!!'<br />'Yes,' Lydia says. 'That's what I want to say to you sometimes.' She sips her tea.<br />'My God. Of course that must be true. Of course it must! What's a little cellulite next to a face full of deep wrinkles? What's a face full of deep wrinkles next to infirmity? When does the time come when you stand in front of your grown-up woman's mirror and feel contentment for what you see? Ever?&quot;<br />The novel carries important messages in a simplistic and fast-moving style. It is a Saturday afternoon kind of read, one that can be read in one exciting sitting, every word being pondered over and saved up. Berg writes about ordinary experiences and feelings that everyone can relate to, so that the reader can read along and nod, thinking, &quot;Yes, that's so true.&quot; She does falteringly resort back to some cringe-causing clich&eacute;s and oversimplifications, but the observations in this book are much more original and truly thought-provoking than in her former books, which are good but lack the sophistication of Open House. After many good books full of some over-done phrases and sentences, Berg finally polishes everything up in Open House, and in doing so shows that such over-treated subjects as divorce and middle age can really be dealt with refreshingly and enjoyably.	2000-11-19
US	37818376	RAC364LOVENEZ	0060931728	396633035	Ariel: Perennial Classics Edition	Books	5	46	51	N	N	An Insightful Depiction of a Human Condition	Ariel is a collection of the last poems Sylvia Plath ever wrote. Furthermore, the poems were written during the last months of her life, which were very bleak months indeed. Plath's husband, Ted Hughes, had just left her for another woman, and she was left to watch over her two young children in the middle of a freezing cold winter in a small apartment that was not heated. Because of these circumstances, a lot of the poems included in &quot;Ariel&quot; are depressing; however, the poems are also strikingly beautiful. They show the human condition at its absolute lowest point: hopeless, stark, terrifying.<br />Plath eventually ends her life by commiting suicide in a dramatic way: sticking her head in an oven and leaving it there. It was her third suicide attempt, and the other two were pretty dramatic as well. Plath addresses these suicide attempts, and how it felt to survive the other two, in one of her most famous poems from Ariel, &quot;Lady Lazarus&quot;: &quot;I have done it again./ One year in every ten/ I manage it-/ A sort of walking miracle/ my skin Bright as a Nazi lampshade.../ And I a smiling woman/ am only thirty./ And like the cat I have nine times to die./ This is Number Three./ What a trash/ To annihilate each decade.../ Dying Is an art,/ like everything else/I do it exceptionally well./ Herr God, Herr Lucifer Beware/ Beware./ Out of the ash/ I rise with my red hair/ And I eat men like air.&quot;<br />The Nazi theme continues in Plath's poem &quot;Daddy&quot;, in which she accuses her father of being similar to Hitler, and compares her husband to her father as well, writing about how they both had negative influences in her life. &quot;I have always been sacred of you,/ With your Luftwaffe, your gobbledygoo./ And your neat mustache/ And your Aryan eye, bright blue./ Panzer-man, panzer-man, O You-/ Not God but a swastika/ So black no sky could squeak through./ Every woman adores a Fascist,/ The boot in the face, the brute/ Brute heart of a brute like you..../ I was ten when they buried you./ At twenty I tried to die/ And get back, back, back to you./ I thought even the bones would do./ But they pulled me out of the sack, And they stuck me together with glue./ And then I knew what to do./ I made a model of you, A man in black with a Meinkampf look/ And a love of the rack and the screw./ And I said I do, I do./ So daddy, I'm finally through./ If I've killed one man, I've killed two-/ The vampire who said he was you/ And drank my blood for a year,/ Seven years, if you want to know./ Daddy, you can lie back now.&quot;<br />These are two of the most well-known examples of the bleakness but truthfulness in Plath's poetry. They reach toward the human emotions everyone knows- pain, sorrow, bitterness, lonliness. However, Plath also wrote some humourous and sweet poems which are included in Ariel, including poems about her children and good memories. These poems add a lightness to the book which is otherwise dark and dreary. Although the reader is tempted to hate a book filled with such depressing poetry, no one can resist loving it. This book is, in my opinion, one of the best poetry volumes of Twentieth Century American Literature, and it will find a place in your heart. If you have not read Ariel, I greatly recommend it. Through the autobiographical poems found within it you will connect with Plath's disillusionment and also come to know a great deal about the poetic genius' troubled life and last days.	2000-11-15
US	37818376	R221YU99EHTI9I	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Don't delay in reading this classic (like I did!)	I know, I know. How could I have let 19 years of my life pass by without reading this classic and constantly-alluded to novel? Yes, I delayed reading it for far too long, but it did not disappoint my anticipated expectations.<br />In the opening chapters of the novel I was *gasp* - bored with the plot and characters. I was blasphemously thinking, &quot;Why has everyone made such a hype about this book for the past century or so? It's just a bunch of prissy girls wasting their lives away by waiting around on parties, dates, and personal Prince Charmings to whisk them away&quot;.<br />However, as the novel went on, Austen's prowess at prose whisked me away, and I was totally intrigued. The Victorian world was opened up to me, and I tossed all former feminist theories momentarily aside as I became immersed in this setting, yearning for that time and place, where icould have lived like a princess and been loved by all, simply for being born female.<br />I loved Austen's depiction of the relationship between Elizabeth and Jane, and I saw the closeness of my own relationship with my sister reflected in it. I was amused by Mary's disgust in boys and her blatant disregard for most people. Lucy and Kitty's attempts to capture the eyes and hearts of possible suitors were timeless characterizations of so many girls, at that time period and today. Most of all, I loved Mr. Bennett's sense of humor, and his remarks (especially those directed toward Mrs. Bennet) made me laugh out loud throughout the book.<br />Count me in: I am the newest Jane Austen fan, and the one who deserves to receive the Procrastinator of the Century award for waiting so long to read her. For any of you who are putting off reading her like I did, there words of advice: do it, now. You will not be disappointed.	2000-11-12
US	37818376	R1J4UOEVA2F98Y	0671562533	418029528	SELENA! THE PHENOMENAL LIFE AND TRAGIC DEATH OF THE TEJANO MUSIC QUEEN (IN ENGLI (Duel Spanish/English Edition)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Informing as well as Interesting.	I listened to this audiotape while driving home from college, and it                                     was very interesting. I already knew some things about Selena                                     from watching the movie Selena, which was based on her life, as                                     well as listening to some of her CD's. However, this audiobook                                     gave me a lot more information about her life and death. The plot                                     was well-written and well-read, it moved along very quickely and                                     excitingly. Also, the other side of the tape is the same thing but in                                     Spanish, which gave me a chance to practice my Spanish listening                                     skills. :) I recommend this audiobook to anyone who likes Selena's                                     music and/or is interested in her life, career, and death.	2000-11-08
US	37818376	R1X299A67QXP37	0882770357	941078	International Law in Contemporary Perspective: Public Order of the World Community (University casebook series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very helpful and informative book	I am using the draft text of this book for my course in International Law at Sarah Lawrence College.  I have found it to be extremely helpful in that is contains many useful cases dealing with International Law, documentary supplements such as charters and treaties, and general background information on such organizations as the United Nations, the European Community, etc.  I recommend this book to anyone who is studying law, who is interested in International Law and Politics, or who is planning to study law or attend law in the future.  It will be very helpful in framing your background knowlege of the subject, and will give you in-depth information on important case studies as well.	2000-10-11
US	37818376	R1B2YLN3NV2P	0385318324	180829311	Do They Hear You When You Cry?	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Sad story with a hopeful message	&quot;My father was a modern man in a traditional culture who neither repudiated that culture nor let himself be bound by it. He embraced some parts of it, rejected others, and never stopped reevaluating his beliefs about good and bad, right and wrong. He also never deviated from his Muslim faith. We, his daughters, were the same- part modern, part traditional, and Muslim throughout&quot;. ~Fauziya Kassindja, Do They Hear You When You Cry, \\"Muslim Girl\\" <br />This book is the true life story of Fauziya Kassindja, who lived in Togo, West Africa, for the first sixteen years of her life. Her father, an influencial man in her small town society, had always protected her from the dangers that most girls faced as part of her culture. However, when he died, his property (the house where she lived with her mother and sisters) was given to her aunt and uncle, who were very traditional. She was pledged to be married to a man three times her age who already had three wives, whom she was expected to serve. She was also being prepared to undergo what is none in Togo as Female Circumsism and what is known in the U.S. as Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). Fauziya was afraid of having her sacred, female parts destroyed and did not want to live with this man and his wives. A friend told her she could come to America, which helps victims from other country find safety, and he got her a passport. She was young and didn't know what was going on, and when she got to the U.S., she was put in jail. In this maximum-security ward, the illegal immigrants were treated worse than the prisoners convicted of major crimes. She was in this jail for a very long time before a passionate lawyer discovered her story and fought for crimes committed against women )gender-based persecution) to be included in the law that lets foreigners become U.S. citizens because they are fleeing persecuation in their country and seeking safety in ours.<br />This story was utterly fascinating and inspiring; it kept me interested and rooting for Fauziya's case the whole way through. I found Fauziya to be a strong, perservering woman, and her lawyer was an inspiration to me as well. <br />This is an educational and enlightening story.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R1HLV4RH2GM0UX	0735100624	704460701	Puerto Vallarta Squeeze (The Run for el Norte)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Great setting, plot, and writing skill	This book is by Robert James Waller, the author of Border Music and &quot;Bridges of Madison County&quot;. I happened to buy this book on the way to Mexico, which was neat because the book takes place in Mexico. The only problem with this book is that it is too hard to find! I loved the plot: Danny is an American author who is down in Mexico, supposedly coming up with story ideas, but actually just lying around in the sun with all the other gringos. His girlfriend is Luz Maria, a Mexican peasant girl who has made her way up from a tiny village called Ceylaya, where she was the youngest of many siblings, all boys, which put her at the very bottom of the rung. Danny more or less takes Luz for granted and doesn't really go out of his way to make her happy. One day they are in a cafe and they witness a murder. The murderer asks Danny for a ride to the U.S. border, and Danny, thinking he could get a good story out of it, says yes. On the way, many unexpected things happen: the twisted life of Clayton Price, an expert shooter, Vietnam sniper, and a current &quot;Shadowman&quot; (aka hired killer) for the U.S. government, the complicated details of Danny and Luz's relationship, and many other side plots. <br />Robert James Waller always writes realistic stories, never with a happy-ever-after ending that readers complain about but secretly hope for, and this book made me cry more than any other book ever has. It also gives a perceptive and seemingly accurate glimpse into the lives of Mexicans, especially the hardships of Mexican girls, which are humbling, frightening, and sad at the same time. Robert James Waller is an author of sad, romantic traveling tales, and if you are in the mood for a heart-breaking book, pick up &quot;Puerto Vallarta Squeeze.&quot;	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R2BMNJ7NVRZ2GQ	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Captivating and Beautiful Prose	Nabokovs prose captivated me from his very first lines. (&quot;Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my soul.&quot;) The most common reaction from those who saw me reading this book was &quot;Oh my god youre a pedaphile... that book is about an old man and a little girl&quot;. I expected to be repulsed by this book, and although the topic is very disgusting, the story is told so beautifully, so pure, so heart-wrenchingly sad in some parts and so doubled-over-with-laughter funny in other parts that I couldnt help but love the book. As the narrator warns in the beginning, &quot;You can always count on a murderer for a fancy prose style.&quot;<br />The story, for those unfamiliar with this classic, is the aging Humbert Humberts fanatical obsession with twelve-year-old Delores Haze. The book tells of his pursuit, conquest, and loss of her with perfect emotional and intellectual captivation. Lolitas character is painted so clearly that I kept thinking I saw her face on the street, that I heard her voice in my head. Nabokov has such a beautiful writing style that the story and its characters were always with me. I finished this book a week ago, and I keep picking it up to reread parts because of his delicious story-telling. I also keep remembering parts of it in my head. <br />Instead of painting the narrator as the ruthless vicious person the reader would expect a pedophile to be, Nabokov has Humbert tell his story as a victim, of someone who is kept away from the love of his life by mean things like laws and ethics. He is also incredibly funny, and in the middle of telling a horrible detail about the characters relationship, the author will insert hilarious ramblings like &quot;I dont care if these verb tenses arent right&quot;. <br />This story captivated me, and now I have such an interest in Nabokov that I want to buy all his books and savor them one by one. I think he is not only an intellectual genius but a master of the art of storytelling - and writing - as well. This was one exhilirating read, and I recommend it to literature lovers everywhere.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R28XB6K25W555W	1878067613	813505271	DEL-Listen Up: Voices From the Next Feminist Generation	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fresh voices for feminism!	Every Feminist knows one of the biggest internal and external criticisms of the movement: it is too exclusive. Too white, too middle-to-upper-class, too limited to past decades when Feminism was &quot;needed&quot;. In short, the argument runs something like this: if Feminism is not indeed dead, it is too exclusive to attract most people.<br />Listen Up blows this criticism away with its wide range of voices coming from its essays written by all different types of people. In fact, the only thing that all the writers have in common is that they all call themselves a Feminist. They also call themselves everything from white, black, Asian, Hispanic, Indian, Christian, Jewish, Atheist, single, married, straight, lesbian, pro-life, pro-choice, mother, daughter, and much more. All of these descriptions come together to form one anthology that shows that no one has to subscribe to a majoritys opinion of what Feminism entails in order to be a Feminist.<br />Most of the authors in this collection of essays are unknown, but they are all budding Feminists, and they all belong to the &quot;Baby Boom&quot; generation, those who are reshaping and redefining Feminist, proving that it is anything but dead. The authors are a funky collection of brilliant and diverse individuals, and each essay gives an important insight to modern Feminism. This unique book can be read in chronological order, or by picking and choosing the ones that appeal to you the most from its helpful table of contents, which gives an intriguing quote from each of the essays.<br />Read this book yourself, because it will inspire and motivate your Feminist views and actions. And then give it to a skeptic of Feminism, anyone who claims it is too narrow-minded and exclusive. Feminism is not dead just becuase the war was fought decades ago; rather, it is a war that needs to be continually fought until true equality is reached. As Ellen Neuborne writes in Listen Up in her essay &quot;Imagine My Surprise&quot;,&quot;It is a dangerous thing to assume that just because we were raised in a feminist era, we are safe. We are not.&quot; And as JeeYeun Lee writes in her essay &quot;Beyond Bean Counting&quot;, &quot;Women of color do not struggle in feminist movements simply to add cultural diversity.&quot; These are just two of the many writers in Listen Up who assert the truth about Feminism: that every woman needs it, that every person should fight for true equality in issues of gender, race, and orientation. Listen Up is a fresh collection of voices by writers that will keep Feminism alive and well during their own generation, and spread the enthusiasm to those to come.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	RGHPV9C83R0AF	0440324971	212139280	The Feminine Mystique	Books	4	175	203	N	N	A classic book and a triumph for Feminism - a must-read!	This is a well-documented and well-reseached book that discusses the problems faced by many American housewives. It was written in the sixties, when women were returning to their homes after the sexual revolution and the womans right movement, when they were proudly filling in forms with &quot;Occupation: Housewife&quot; once again. These women were told by psychoanalysists, who mostly based their findings on Frueds theories, that a womans sex life and happiness was ultimately found through living her life soley for her husband and children. The women Freidan  studied and interviewed for this book were usually surburban wives, living in nice houses with their executive husbands who made a lot of money. These women had done everything right. They had married young: some barely finished or didnt finish high school, others dropped out of college, all for the goal of marrying their sweetheart and fulfilling the perfect image of the feminime mystique. These women had had many babies by natural childbirth, they sewed all their clothes and washed all their dished by hand, they had breastfed them all, they had doted on their childrens and husbands interests and goals so much that they lost sight of their own. And even though these women were living by the perfect standards set by the &quot;feminine mystique&quot;, they were dreadfully unhappy. So many were seeing pscyhoanalysts without positive results, so many were harboring resentful, depressing thoughts, and contemplating everything from an extramarital affair to suicide. And the most common problem of all came to be known as &quot;chronic fatique syndrome&quot;. The women with this problem experienced listlessness and wrestlessness. They were always tired no matter how much they slept. Their joints and bones ached. They could not stayed interested in or concentrated on one subject for a long period of time. They were physically with their children all the time, but never really there in spirit. <br />And so,based on these findings, Freidan studied these women more, interviewed them more, and wrote The Feminine Mystique, in which she published her theories. I found most of her ideas to be extremely well thought out, and I can imagine how much the american housewife of the sixties, and later, really needed these ideas. For instance, Friedan comments on how &quot;housework expands to fit the time available&quot;, noting that the house of the working women was always clean, even though she had a limited amount of time to clean it in, while the housewife who was perpetually cleaning and recleaning everything could never seem to &quot;get anything done&quot;. Friedan also studied the ways in which these mothers affected their children, and most grew up to be dependant and irresponsible. The men looked for girls to marry who would take the place of their mother, who did everything for them, and the girls grew up to be stuck in the same trap as their mother, being a mother not only to their children but to their husbands as well, since their husbands had grown up under the feminine mystique and expected his wife to act as his mother had. Many times, the mothers try to live the dreams they never got fulfilled because of early marriage and motherhood through their children, and this is never good.<br />The most important thesis in this book, in my opinion, is the way in which Friedan pleads for women to become their own individuals. When a girl marries at seventeen, before she has even grown up herself, and has children of her own, her growing and learning process is stunted and she never finds out who she really is or what she really wants. When a woman waits on her family night and day, she loses such a big part of herself that she begins to feel like all she does for everyone else is useless and taken for granted. Freidan implores women to follow their own interests and not let the feminine mystique stunt their growth. She gives findings of women who finally went back to thedesires and goals they had in their youth, as well as women who never left them but were the rare minority who combined motherhood with a career, and showed that they were no less women then the ones who stayed at home. In fact, having a life of their own improved the womans marriage, family and sex life drastically when compared with the women whose worlds revolved around other people.<br />I found a few problems with Friedans book and although they are insignificant in comparison with the book's positive aspects, they are worth pointing out nonetheless. Mainly, although Friedan is very advanced for her time in suggesting freedom and independence for women, she was very descriminative against homosexuals. She spent the first half of her book refuting Freuds theories about women and stating how he was a bad pscyhologist with unexamined and biased theories when it came to this area. However, she backs up her thesis about &quot;weak&quot; homosexual men being drawn to the love of other men because of the relationship they still desire with their mothers with all of Freuds theories. I dont think she should tear Freuds theories apart when it is in her favor and use the same person to back her up when she is talking about a different subject. Also her book is still sexist in the sense that she always expects women to do the housework and, if they choose to have a career, manage it along with the housework, when what she should do is suggest that if the man and the woman are both working, the man and the woman should both help out with the housework. However, since her views were so revolutionary at this time I am sure she did not want to press it by suggesting men actually do &quot;womans&quot; work, since her very suggestion that women can and should do &quot;mans&quot; work was already taking things far.<br />On the whole this book was unquestionably fantastic. Although, fortunately, many women work today, some still face bias, prejudice, and descrimination from others, and this book goes to show that there is nothing wrong with a woman doing what she wants to do with her life just as there is nothing wrong with a man doing the same thing. And there are still some housewifes caught up in the feminine mystique who should read the book and find out why they are suffering the &quot;problem who has no name&quot;. I feel that this book has done a tremendous amount of good for women throughout history after its publication, and it can still do a lot for them today...	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R1PYQ49HHDAVH4	0451187849	922642678	We the Living: Anniversary Edition	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Rand is a genius	\\" `Society, Kira, is a stupendous whole.' `If you write a whole line of zeroes, it's still- nothing.\\" Chapter 3; Kira and Victor<br />This quote sums up Kira's attitude about the Collective, and mirrors author Ayn Rand's attitude on it as well. We the Living is a novel set in Russia during the Russian Revolution, and a young girl named Kira who refuses to settle for anything less than what she desires and deserves. The characters in it represent what every true individual can aspire to be if they believe in themselves. Leo, whom Kira loves and worships as her only god, is an example of one who had the potential to be great but who did not have the guts. Almost everyone surrounding Kira are examples of those born without potential or initiative. Kira is an example of someone who did all that she possibly could to be what she knows she can be, but the country and time period she lives in will not allow her to be anything but just another person in the great mass of people. <br />Ayn Rand admitted that this is the closest she has ever come to writing an autobiography. She said that the events in the book are fiction, but Kira's ideals and values are her own. This book, like all of Ayn Rand's, will definately make you think, and it is an interesting read as well.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R2V61IMXUI67Z8	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Another Gripping Grisham Book	John Grisham is one of my favorite contemporary bestselling authors, and I have read almost all his books. This one was certainly different from the rest of them in my opinion, in both good and bad ways. On the negative side, it was not as suspenseful and fast-paced as, say The Pelican Brief or The Firm or his other courtroom dramas- when I read them I could scarcely put the book down for fear that something was going to happen between the pages in my absense. However on the positive side, this book contained a much deeper message than those other books did. (Which probably explains why it wasn't all about write-an-awesome-story-to-sell excitement.) The story begins when a bum walks into a rich firm and holds ten attorneys- including some of the best and richest in the firm- hostage in a little room. He has dynamo strapped to his body and is holding a gun. He asks one lawyer to give him the facts straight of the IRS reports: how much money have each of these big-time lawyers donated to charity? By charity he doesn't mean the local symphony or the high-up charities they give money to in order to get their name mentioned, but money given directly to the poor homeless people on the street or the soup kitchens, free clinics, homes, etc. that help them out? Of course the lawyer can't give a very big figure. Although no harm results from this short hostage-holding-session (except to the bum, who is shot by a sniper outside and whose brains explode all over the lawyer who was assisting him with the figures) and it seems like the bum was just trying to make a point instead of really hurt anyone, and although the rest of the attorneys go back to their strenous trying-to-get-on-top schedule, the laywer who was asked to tell the bum the statistics is deeply touched by this episode and wants to find out more.<br />The lawyer's name is Michael Brock, and he becomes the main character of the story. Although he is a rising star at the Drake and Sweeney, the law firm, he gives up some of his billing hours to investigate this incident. This decision leads him to helping at a free clinic and donating his time at a homeless shelter. When he finds out what connection the firm has with the bum, he leaves it, and takes along with him a stolen file. From then on, he is a crook, and a street lawyer. <br />This book wasn't only another good John Grisham tale, but a touching story of a man who realized his life had been shallow and he wanted to make a difference. I recommend it with this reason. If you want a fast-paced court-room drama, read another of his books first. But if you are tired of that sort of thing but what something different and deeper, read The Street Lawyer.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R1T3D1DZFDVLWX	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	15	21	N	N	beautifully written bk w/ well-developed plot &amp; characters	This book fascinated me from start to finish, and I just couldn't put it down. It is the story of a girl who started life in worship and awe of her mother, and spent the rest of her life trying to escape that very mindset. <br />Ingrid, the mother, is a character I liked in some ways because she possesses all the qualities I love in a female: strength, independance, intelligence, and fun. Astrid is the daughter who struggles to find her own identity, first by imitating her mother (which is exactly what Ingrid desires the most from her daughter: a carbon-copy of herself), and later doing whatever she can to prove to herself that is *not* like her mother. In the beginning, the Imitating-Ingrid stage, everything is great. Ingrid and young Astrid live a care-free and envious life, traveling all over the world and doing, it seems, whatever they feel like doing at the moment. Astrid begins the role of her mother's sidekick early in life, constantly attending her mother's poetry readings and handling the stands where people buy her mother's books. Ingrid is open and honest with Astrid, sharing her secrets- good and bad. At the same time, however, she is depriving her daughter of things she needs the most at this precarious time: one definate place to live, one definate set of beliefs, one father figure. (As Ingrid and Astrid study mythological gods together, Ingrid tells her daughter to report to anyone who inquires about her religious believes that &quot;we hang our gods from trees.&quot; When Astrid requests information about her father's whereabouts or why she does not know him, Ingrid tells her that girls do not need fathers and it is better off the Astrid does not have one, testifying &quot;I had one, so I would know.&quot; <br />This idealistic world spins smoothly until Ingrid crashes their universe by breaking all her rules. Formerly, Ingrid had used her beauty only to intimidate and manipulate men; she never went further than that. She would give advice to Astridabout men, listing rules such as Do not let men stay the night, Do not let them get cozy in your life by going to dinners and other such domestic outings with them all the time, Do not change your taste to suit theirs or to impress them, Do not give any of emotional self to them because you won't be able to get anything back. (During the book I somewhat liked these theories of Ingrid's because they sound so much like those typical of males for unnoticed generations and generations). Ingrid did not believe in love and did not want committment. However, she let her guard down with a despicable character named Barry, and when he stopped loving her, she couldn't handle it. She had always thought that a woman's self-respect was the most imporatant thing to hang on to, and she felt like she had thrown it all away in a trash can named &quot;Barry&quot;. Unable to end her rage, frustration, and bitterness, Ingrid kills Barry (the weapon is the poisonous flower Oleander- hence the title), and is sentenced to life in prison. At first, Astrid feels guilty because her mother always shared everything with her and she had a few glimpes of the future, but did nothing to warn Barry about her mother's plans. And so begins Astrid's struggle without her mother, the only person she had ever really had.<br />In the midst of becoming a woman herself, Astrid starts to see the side of her mother she had always missed before because of her glossed-over visions of perfection and goddess-ness. Now, she feels betrayed by her mother, and thinks that Ingrid is only a selfish person who will not be happy unless Astrid becomes exactly what she is. As Astrid moves from foster home to foster home, she meets so many different people- people she has never before been able to come in close contact with, because that would entail leaving her mother's side- and she realizes that maybe her mother's way isn't flawless. Throughout the book, Astrid must deal with her feelings of rejection, imperfection, guilt, and lonliness, and getting past all these barriers utlimately leads her to hold a satisfying self-concept of herself. ALthough the story's ending was surprisingly unrealistic, I was still able to share in Astrid's triumphs as well as her failures. By realizing that her mother loves her for who she is, and finding out exactly what that is, Astrid forms her own identity and individuality. Learning to forgive all the pains which so many people have inflicted her with and getting past the tendency to want to be like whoever she is closest to at the moment make her a stronger person. Three cheers for Fitch's first novel, and I hope to be seeing more titles by her soon! Her book rocks by forging a mixture of the female perspective on life (it somehow manages to &quot;subtly glow&quot; with the girl-power message), and humanity-in-general's view. It is filled with triumph and failure, despair and hope, humor and sorrow, and- the book's most powerful message of all- insecurity and self-respect. Fitch successfully weaves these paradoxical traits into one story which will make you want to read it fast and savor it slowly. Yummy... this was one delicious summer read.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R3SABWGLJF3L98	0452273412	559139118	The Other Side/El Otro Lado	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Re-Posting of My Review Under the Right Nickname	&quot;I hung back, unsure, if this was the thing I'd die for/ and so perhaps never found what it was I would live for.&quot;  From The Other Side/ El Otro Lado<br />I found this collection of poetry to be an honest portrait of the poet's experiences. The novelist Julia Alvarez, author of &quot;How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents&quot;, &quot;Yo&quot;, and &quot;In the Time of the Butterflies&quot;, displays her wide range of poetry in this book, The Other Side/ El Otro Lado. It is divided into four main sections, each with their own topic, and each section has poems about that topic within it. The first section deals with the poet's childhood, as she lived in the Dominican Republic. Then the book moves on to deal with other topics such as her family's hurried getaway to the United States, and her awkward adolescent years, as she tried to adjust as a minority Latina in a world of gringas. The book moves on to her adulthood and encompasses topics which vary from her poetry readings to her boyfriends. Especially touching are the poems which speak about her return visit to her homeland of Dominican Republic, the point at which Julia realizes that she does not fit in here anymore any better than she fit in at her school when she first arrived in the US. This book is a tale of one woman's journey from immigrant to American citizen, and it expressed with the deepest and sincere sense of humanity. Her unique story-telling style of poetry makes this book unique, and her experiences will warm your heart.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R20RKWYV87F25T	0679732241	161451712	The Sound and the Fury: The Corrected Text	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Literary masterpiece, interesting read.	This novel details the downfall of the Compsons, a former aristocratic Southern family. It is full of imagery and emotion. One of the images that is prominent in the novel is that of the shadow. Faulkner uses images such as this to tie different aspects of the story together, and relate different parts to one another.<br />The narrative for the first part of the story is Benji, who is a thirty-three year old man with the mind of three year old. This makes for confusing reading in the beginning, because a three year doesn't distinguish between seemingly important details such as race, sex, and family relation. At the end of the first section, you will be left with one big question mark about who is related to who and what is even going on, but your head will soon clear at the start of the second section, told by Quentin, Benji's brother and a Harvard undergrad with some serious head problems of his own. During this part of the novel, the characters and their intertwining relationships become clear, and you will be able to understand what is going on. Just in time to hate the jerk named Jason who is the narrator in the third part. The last part is written by an omniscient narrator who puts everything in even better perspective.<br />The whole novel is written in such a way that the reader only gets glimpses into the family and the character, kind of like what happens with neighbors, acquaintances, and friends in real life. The reader is left to draw many of her or his own conclusions. This is not a typical Happy Family story with a Happy Family Ending. It is a realistic story of a family's fall. Faulkner does an exceptional job of recreating Southern family life post-war, and he won all those prizes to prove it. The Sound and the Fury is essential reading when it comes to American Literature, and it is a convincing family portrait. After being immersed in this novel and disappointed that I had finished it, I bought three more of Faulkner's book because he is such an awesome writer!  Faulkner is also important to America's literary tradition and I am glad I became familiar with him through this book.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	R2M412N4DN2MSF	0553213369	552921765	The Souls of Black Folk (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Powerful and Progressive - an Important Book For All to Read	&quot;Herein lie buried many things which if read with patience may show the strange meaning of beling black here in the dawning of the Twentieth Century.&quot; -W.E.B. DuBois, in the Forethought <br />This book contains essays written by W.E.B. DuBois. Some of them are very historical and recount the African American events and progess, and some of them are very personal, in which DuBois tells about his own life. I learned a lot from reading this book. For instance, I had always thought of what an awful thing slavery was- a horrible part of Americas history- and that is was such a good thing that it was finally stopped. However, I never thought about the implications of life for the ex-slave after it was ended. Here were many African Americans, free, yes, but with what? Nothing. How would they get anywhere without money, education, jobs, etc.? And after freeing them leaders imposed unfair segragation and Jim Crow laws upon African Americans, so they were not really free at all.<br />Another thing that interested me about this book was the evolution of the slaves religion. It is very interesting to me how DuBois discusses their original religion of magic/ancestor and earth worship,etc and their gradual progression to the Christian religion of their masters, and then back to the beginning in an almost cyclical pattern.  I don't think the African-American culture would be the same at all today if it were not for this mix of religious belief, although some would argue about how good it was for a religion to be forced about them and I would tend to agree.  <br />W.E.B. DuBois was a pioneer of African American literature and thought. This book of essays will make you rethink the progress and status of African Americans throughout Americas history, and will help you understand and sympathesize much more.  I do agree with a previous review's critique that this book has some disturbing anti-semitic passages in it; in fact, a friend of mine wrote her paper for our 20thCentury American Literature Class on that subject, so that did point that problem out to me.  I find it strange that DuBois can so effectively and reasonably argue for the equality of African-Americans while so irrationably spout such anti-semitic comments.  Except for this problem (which should not be overlooked), the book is very important and powerful, and it did and continues to do a lot for the advancement of African-Americans in the US.	2000-10-05
US	37818376	RBXFDCLICTNEK	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A Little Dose of Culture Shock that's funny and insightful.	I'd be willing to make a bet that you have heard of Bill Bryson. I'd bet on that because almost everyone anywhere has heard of him. His most well known book, A Walk in the Woods, was a humorous chronicle of his hikes on the Appalachian Trail. Another of his books, In a Sunburned Country, is known for its appealing tales of Australia, based on Bryson's first-hand experiences while visiting the continent. I know many of you have also heard of his recent book I'm a Stranger Here Myself, but I am taking the risk of being redundant by praising this book in case one of you hasn't, because it is definitely worth a read.<br />This was my first introduction to Bill Bryson, and a great one at that, so I can testify that those of you who- gasp!- may be thinking, &quot;Bill who?&quot; will become very familiar with his unique writing style, not to mention hooked on his great sense of humor, just by reading this book. However, veteran Bryson fans have also told me they thoroughly enjoyed this book as much as, or if not more than, his other ones, so I think it's fair to say that even those who think nothing could be better than A Walk in the Woods would change their minds with a reading of I'm a Stranger Here Myself. Subtitled &quot;Notes on Returning to America After Twenty Years Away&quot;, this book is not only a thought-provoking look into an American native-turned-foreigner-turned-native-again, but a huge slice of Americana. This collection of articles Bryson wrote for a British newspaper after he and his English wife and English-born children moved to New Hampshire gives short glimpses into regular American experiences such as baseball games, trips to the barber, and evenings out with the family. However, an added twist is his puzzling outlook on the American lifestyle he had put aside when he moved to England twenty years ago, and his observations often tell a lot more about Americans than about Bryson's own life. I have heard many observations made by Bryson in I'm a Stranger Here Myself be commented upon by those who were either born in or brought up in countries outside the US and then came to live here. For instance, why do Americans think it is absolutely necessary to have a car, and why are American roads planned in such inconvenient ways for the few pedestrians who do set out for a walk or jog every now and then? Why do Americans go on sudden fitness binges during which they feel they must surround themselves with gym equipment and workout programs, when it would be much simpler to incorporate exercise into their daily routines? And why are American tax forms so confusing and American bureaucratic policies so hard to get through? Why does the American justice system punish first time drug offenders as hard as or sometimes even harder than they do some rapists and murderers? And whatever happened to those old American traditions such as drive-in movies and road side motels owned by private, family-run businesses?<br />Even those of us who are used to living in America but who have traveled to Europe will find ourselves nodding in agreement to many of Bryson's comparisons between the two continents. After returning from a year abroad in Spain, I was constantly reminded of the differences between the European and American lifestyles, and Bryson does a great job of pointing out all of these distinctions. He covers the conveniences of living in the US as well as the problems that go unnoticed by many American citizens, even those who are conscious voters or activists. I'm A Stranger Here Myself is a little book about everything: politics, culture shock, American life, European life, random rants and musings... you name it, it's here. However, it's mostly about humor, for Bryson as usual finds a way to make everything funny. I couldn't read it at work because I was laughing out loud. So instead I went outside on my lunch break and laughed out loud while random people walked by gawking at the weirdo who was laughing to herself. Thoseof you who have read Bill Bryson before- and again, I am betting that it's a lot of you- know what I'm talking about. So pick up a copy of I'm a Stranger Here Myself and be reminded of just how funny he is. And for those of you who have never read him, I promise it's worth your time and the energy you will exert by laughing. It will remind you that we are all a bit of a stranger even in our own familiar little world, and that looking at something common through a new perspective will certainly cause a smile and a nod of agreement from those who are new to- or returning to- what for the rest of us is an everyday thing.	2000-10-04
US	37818376	RXA34G08H63XE	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Another Dose of Culture Shock	I read this book right after reading Bill Bryson's I'm a Stranger Here Myself. It seems to me that there is a recent theme in new books that centers around humor at the expense of a person who is experiencing culture shock. Since this seems to be the recent theme, I suppose there's no harm in writing yet another book review with a theme of culture shock. <br />Davis Sedaris' Me Talk Pretty One Day combines two of the world's greatest cities- New York and Paris- with humor, all in one book that is incredibly hard to put down. The book is comprised of a series of humorous personal experience pieces, the first half of which take place in Sedaris' native New York City and the second half of which take place in Paris, where he moves to temporarily with his boyfriend Hugh. <br />The first essay in Me Talk Pretty One Day sets the fast and funny pace continued throughout the rest of the book. It also sets the theme of &quot;culture shock&quot; in one's own county, because Sedaris comments on many experiences in his youth that made him feel alienated from other people in his own environment. In it, Sedaris discusses the speech impediment (aka &quot;lisp&quot;) that he had as a child and still has to this day. The efforts of his speech teacher to correct the lisp were never successful, but Sedaris' descriptions of them are hilarious. He writes about the kids who were in his speech therapy class, saying, &quot;None of the speech therapy students were girls. They were all boys like me who kept movie star scrapbooks and made their own curtains... 'One of these days I'm going to have to hang a sign on that door,' [my speech teacher] used to say. She was probably thinking along the lines of SPEECH THERAPY LAB, though a more appropriate marker would have read FUTURE HOMOSEXUALS OF AMERICA&quot;.<br />Even when Sedaris writes about such mundane things as restaurant menus and crossword puzzles, or such serious things as Euthanasia, he is so funny and absurd that you begin to wonder if he takes anything about life in New York City seriously. However, just as you are wondering this, he sweeps you off to Paris to read his wacky comments on life there. Sedaris never did learn French fluently, nor did he do all the touristy things such as seeing the Louvre and the Eiffel Tour. Instead, he watched American movies in English in French theatres because &quot;I've never considered myself an across-the-board apologist for the French, but there's a lot to be said for an entire population that never, under any circumstances, talks during the picture... I can't remember the last time I've enjoyed silence in an American theatre&quot;. <br />If you have ever been to a foreign country, whether as an American who is embarrassed by the other American tourists that surround you, or as a member of a different nationality who makes fun of the American tourists, you will laugh along in complete understanding with Sedaris' comments on the two types of French that Americans speak: &quot;the Hard Kind and the Easy kind. The Hard Kind involves the conjugation of wily verbs and the science of placing them alongside various other words in order to form such sentences as 'I go him say good afternoon'... The second, less complicated form of French amounts to screaming English at the top of your lungs, much the same way you'd shout at a deaf person or the dog you thought you could train to stay off the sofa&quot;.<br />Me Talk Pretty One Day is guaranteed to give you an insider's look at culture shock in one's own country and abroad. It will also give you an insider's look at life in New York City and Paris. But best of all, it will give you this dose of culture shock (and if you've read I'm a Stranger Here Myself, make that your second recent dose), with a strong dose of humor. And that makes everything just a little bit better.	2000-10-04
US	37818376	R3PABX69VQXMID	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	5	47	49	N	N	A haunting and beautiful novel	Alias Grace is a haunting and memorable novel. It is definately among one of the best I have ever read, and would be called my favorite if naming only one book in the whole world as such a thing were possible. This book was suprisingly unlike the best-selling novels I've been reading recently, as it was not only written to sell but to convey a message, and it possesses an integrity which is lacking in many books full of popular prose written in order to make money. I could not agree more with the blurb by Washington Post Book World which appears on the front cover of the edition I read: &quot;Alias Grace has all the pacing of a commercial novel and all the resonance of a classic.&quot; Not only is this book meritable for its captivating and original plot, but also, more importantly, for its literary quality. The author, Margaret Atwood, has written the entire book in language ture to the time it takes place, and her skill for consistantly choosing lyrical and thought-provoking words is astounding. <br />Alias Grace is the story of a real-life character, Grace Marks, who at age fifteen was sentenced to death for her part in the murder of her murder of the man she worked for and his mistress. Her sentence was then changed to life imprisonment after her skillful lawyer and many important citizens pleaded her case. However, many thought she should have hanged with her co-conspirator and that was as guilty as he was. Thus, Grace Marks was made a &quot;celebrated murderess&quot; and an infamous enigma of the nineteenth century, and her story has been brought to us with the grace-ful writing of Margaret Atwood. This novel was written so well that it had me literally laughing out loud one minute and then literally crying real tears the next. <br />As a side comment, this novel is also important in a feminist viewpoint. I hesitate to comment on this as it may turn male readers away, and that is not my intention on mentioning it at all, for although the main character is a very young female and most events are told from her point of view, the way in which it is written makes it a capativating read for any one, regardless of age or sex. However, the harsh treatment of and opinions about women during this period in history were brought up in a way which would evoke sympathy and anger from anyone. Wide-spread opinions about the nature and duty of women are infrequently but impressionately brought up: &quot;That woman has nerves like flint. She'd have made a good lawyer, if a man.&quot;, &quot;Men, by nature and the decree of Providence, have a certain latitude allowed them; but fidelity to the marriage vow is surely the chief requirement in a woman&quot;, and the daily live as well as special circumstances of Grace Mark's story allow the reader to feel the injustices women suffered back then without the hope of making things better.<br />If there is one book out of the many great ones I have read this year that I recommend the general web-surfer who has stumbled upon this book review to read, it is most emphatically this one. Grace's character and story will grab you and you will be wondering about her guilt and innocence just as much as her peers in the nineteenth century were.	2000-10-04
US	37818376	RLLB8CG6SEFBZ	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Fresh View of Modern Suburbia	The Girl's Guide to Hunting and Fishing is an impressive debut by Melissa Banks, who received a stunning $275,000 advance for this short story  collection after having the stories published separately in such renowned  publications as The New Yorker and The Harvard Review.  Although short  story collections are generally considered risky, Banks' is successful  primarily because it reads very much like a novel, since all the stories  are linked around the central character-Jane Rosenthal- and a central  setting- modern New York suburbia. In fact, the most memorable title of any  of the short stories is &quot;The Worst Thing a Suburban Girl Could  Imagine&quot;, because it basically sums up the theme of the whole book.   WIth the exception of the powerful and touching story of Jane's father's  death due to Leukemia, most of the stories deal with common, everyday  issues, such as Jane's distress over her editing job and her on again- off  again affair with a much older literary mentor.  However, Banks treats such  trite issues with surprising clarity and deepness, so that every reader can  draw a parallel between Jane's life and her or his own.   The Girl's Guide  to Hunting and Fishing is a quick read, and it is guaranteed to make you  want more stories about this character's clash with surburbia.  I, for one,  am waiting in anticipation for Banks' next short story or novel, for her  first book shows the promise of an author who will be putting a fresh twist  and great writing skill into everyday events familiar to us all for a very  long time.	2000-08-10
US	37818376	R3KVCO8SG9PBAB	0735200793	719712766	The Scholarship Book 2000: The Complete Guide to Private-Sector Scholarships, Fellowships, Grants and Loans for the Undergraduate (Scholarship Book 2000 (Paper))	Books	1	18	19	N	N	A waste of money, in my opinion	This book is awful.  I found no scholarhips applicable to me in the entire book, and it is full of bizarre scholarships that almost no one could apply for.  I thought this book was for college-bound high school students and college students.  However, most of the scholarhips are for things like mothers over the age of 30, graduate students, playwrights, etc. <br />The best feature of the book was that it listed scholarships by major -  science, english, etc.  However almost all the scholarships listed were  specific for a certain reason - for instance, students of Sacred Heart  Academy or residents of Montgomery County.  These scholarships are easily  accessible for those people that qualify for them, such as at local  libraries and schools, and are not helpful to include in a book for  students all across America, only a small percentage of whom could qualify  for those certain scholarships by living in that area. <br />I was excited to  get this book and thought it would help me find some college money.   However it was absolutely useless to me and I wish I wouldnt have spent my  money on it - I dont even know anyone I can give it to that would benefit  from any scholarships listed in it.  If you are a college-bound student or  are already in college and are looking for scholarships and loans suited to  you, I dont recommend this book.  ................................. Although this book has many many scholarships,  they are so diverse and hard to qualify for that it would be better if they  only had even a few that would match most students.	2000-04-29
US	37818376	R1V2RIC1WCYMVO	042516876X	417080124	Range of Motion: A Novel	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Another wonderful book from Berg - although not her best	I don't know how many wonderful books I've read by ElizabethBerg, and Range of Motion keeps the same great standard. It is full ofbeautiful prose, moving emotional scenes, and realistic dialogue. Itis the story of a woman whose husband is in a coma. Thoughout thenovel she must deal with the pain it is brining her to see her husbandso far away, and she also must help her two young daughters face the same feelings. The book backtracts to discuss the relationship between the woman and her husband before his accident, and the reader can see it is a rare story of true love. That makes his condition all the more sad, because for the first time in her life since she met him, she must deal with the absence of the love of her life.<br />An interesting subplot in the novel was that of the main character's best friend and her failing marriage. This relationship was painted in such a way that it drew much sympathy from me, and I felt that the best friend really came to life in the book.<br />A weird quirk in this novel was the character of a ghost, an old lady who used to own the main character's house. I realize that the ghost helped the woman cope in her lonliness, but I felt it was unrealistic. I guess the main character temporarily went crazy, and this led to hallucinations and talking to the ghost. This part was supposed to be touching, but to me it was fake. And although most of the imagery was fantastic, there were some points at which I felt it was a bit forced. I felt that the images in Berg's other novels were much more natural. These were the only problems I had with the novel, and I loved the plot and the characters.<br />For those who have never read a Berg novel, I recommend starting with one of her other ones, such as Durable Goods, Joy School, or What We Keep. But for those who are already familiar with Berg, Range of Motion, although in my opinion not her best, will not let you down, for everything she writes is great.<br />**NOTE: I am only giving this book 4 stars because I am comparing it to other Berg books.  However, compared to all books in general I would give it 5 stars.  :) ENDstars because I am comparing it to other Berg books.  However, compared to all books in general I would give it 5 stars.  :) END	2000-04-19
US	37818376	R3NKSIIW9GDSJJ	1877733024	821573021	Woe To The Women: The Bible Tells Me So	Books	5	64	66	N	N	Controversial but convincing viewpoint	In this era of the Womens Movement within the Church, feminists are fighting for everything from the right to be ordained to a gender-inclusive translation of the Bible. Annie Laurie Gaylors Woe to the Women, the Bible Tells Me So is a refreshing look at the opposite Feminist viewpoint of Christianity: it is harmful to women, and they should stay as far way from  it as possible.<br />This is a very harsh and controversial position to take,  but Gaylor backs it up well in her book. Each chapter addresses a topic of  interest to women and explains how the Bible treats the issue. For  instance, the &quot;Creation&quot; chapter explains how the Bible shows  women as the cause of the downfall of the human race, &quot;Rape&quot;  shows alarming views featured in the Old and New Testament about this awful  violition of women, and &quot;The Strange Woman&quot; shows how the Bible  continually insults women and makes them metaphors for all kinds of evil  things. Apparantly, the Christian god apparantly sees no problem in men  ravaging women for their own pleasure, and he even sees exposing womens  genitals as suitable punishment for their pride. Gaylor shows this in the  book when she quotes from Isaiah 3:16-17: &quot;Moreover the Lord sayeth,  Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth  necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a  tinkling with their feet: Therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the  crown of the the head of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will discover  their secret parts.&quot; If nothing else, Woe to the Women should be read  by those who feel that there is nothing sexist about Christianity or the  Bible, so that they can discover shocking verses such as this, which Gaylor  proves shows a very negative view of women. Mothers who would not let their  children hear this kind of violence and insulting language toward women on  TV are also convinced that the Bible is a good, moral guide. Woe to the  Women provides startling and convincing evidence to the contrary.<br />Gaylor,  who is Co-Founder of the Freedom From Religion Foundation, current Editor  of Freethought Now newsletter, and former Editor of the Feminist  Connection, also does a good job of relating the Biblical position on women  to problems that women are facing today. She makes a convincing statement  for womens skepticism, and provides a strong challenging voice for those  feminists who feel that Christianity is a good thing for women. What does  she think about the current womens movement within Christianity? In a  recent email, Gaylor told me that she agrees with &quot;with  (ex-communicated Mormon) Sonia Johnsons remark that her favorite fantasy  is that next Sunday no woman would go to church and they will collapse.  They depend on womens devotion for their very existence. Even if they  (Feminist Bible Scholars and Apoligists) try to make god unisex they  havent deleted and will not be able to delete the patriarchal set-up of  Catholicism and organized religion.&quot; She says that &quot;women who  would never think of asking for male permission or male approval think  nothing of seeking divine approval. You cant argue Feminism by  authority. By playing patriarchys game, women lose.&quot; <br />The only  problem with Woe to the Women is its briefness, and it would be much better  if it would go more in depth instead of skimming over all the different  areas of sexism found in the Bible. However, it is a quick and easy  reference to use in the future, and it makes for a fast and fascinating  read. In the age of Christian Feminism and religious self-help books for  women, Gaylor brings us back to suffragist Elizabeth Cady Stantons  original points made in her book The Womans Bible: Christianity is and  always has been a patriarchal and sexist religion, and women would be best  to stay uninvolved. Although not the viewpoint of every feminist, it is  certainly backed up by Annie Laurie Gaylor, and deserves to be read if only  to get a good understanding of the opposing sides opinion.	2000-04-11
US	37818376	RDSGE9AE7A8A3	0449910172	556270146	Out of the Garden: Women Writers on the Bible	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Claiming God for Themselves Too: Women Write About the Bible	Throughout history, religion has been mans domain: written by and for him alone.  Christianity and Judaism are just two more example of male-centered religious theory.  Right?  Maybe.  But &quot;Out of the Garden: Women  Writers on the Bible&quot; is a startling wake-up call, and it is a  powerful voice for those who feel that women (as well as the feminist  movement) can find their own places within the Bible.  The combination of  essays provided here are strongly convincing in the argument that they  present: women are important figures in the Bible, and it was written with  them in mind, too.  An important factor in the book is that its essays are  written by women with a wide diversity of religious backgrounds, from many  sects of Protestanism, to Catholicism, to Judaism.  This is a powerful  message of unity for women, and for religion.  Many of the essays shine as  personal examples of the Bible touching womens lives.  Patricia J.  Williams personal essay was especially moving, because she tied in her own  life experience with a Bible story; specifically, that of the adoption of  Moses.  If women can relate the Bible and the Christian and Jewish  religions to their own lives, is this not important evidence in itself that  they are not excluded in these theories teachings and reachings?  The only  problem with this book is its tendency to make wild interpretations of  Christianity and Judaism, and sometimes it is questionable whether more  than the one author writing the essay could ever see a feminist message in  a particular passage or story.  However, this does not take away from the  books resounding message, that women should not be discouraged from  claiming Christianity and Judaism as their own as men have done since its  conception.  &quot;Out of the Garden&quot; is an important book to add to  any feminist theology collection, or to read in order to find out just how  the Christianity of men can be looked at from the perspective of many  differentwomen.	2000-04-09
US	37818376	R3S6IUJ5R9UAMH	0553213741	843633553	Sister Carrie (Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Accurate portrayal of American life at this time, good read.	This book was written at the turn of the century and it is a great portrait of American life and ideals at that time. It is the story of a young girl named Carrie who leaves her small town to go to Chicago to live  with her sister and find work. She soon finds that living with her sister  and her husband is very boring and that work is hard and dull. Soon she is  a mistress of a pretty wealthy man, and the rest of the book is the story  of her rise in society. <br />One of the main themes of this book is  materialism, and how people would do anything for money. During the book I  could see how innocent Carrie becomes a victim of circumstances as she  tries to fit into the environment around her and becomes swallowed by the  anonymity of the city. I love Dreisers style, although he goes off on  unneccessary little lectures at times, and I really liked following the  plot. The characters were drawn so well that I would forget they werent  real. This is a great book to read and it accurately portrays American  cities at the rise of industrialism and materialism.	2000-04-07
US	37818376	R2GIV1J24W8PM0	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	You`ll come undone too	She's Come Undone is the owner of both a unique main character and a uniquely-skilled author. Wally Lamb makes Dolores Price come alive in an amazing way. I could not believe that a male wrote this book; I felt for  sure it was a female until I saw his picture and info on the last page.  Lamb has an amazing ability to understand and describe Dolores' feelings  and thought processes throughout an entire novel. I love the author's style  and story. <br />When reading this book I could not decide whether to hate or  love Dolores. At times I felt so sorry for the pathetic girl whose father  was a pitiful example before leaving completely. I imagined her waiting for  her daddy to return and could see how she would be crushed when he never  did. I could see her hating her mother for losing her mind and leaving her  (to go to a mental institution) as well. I could understand why she took  awful habits such as eating, lying, and being cruel. However, at times I  wanted to shout &quot;Get a life!&quot; at her over and over. Lamb deals  with his character throughly, and this book seems almost biographical.  Although Dolores' life is miserable, the story is fascinating. Even if  there are times when you boo-hiss Dolores' actions, you will find yourself  cheering her to triumph the rest of the way.	2000-04-07
US	37818376	RB5L5NV7LFC2U	0060174900	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must-read for any Plath admirer	This is the only novel written by the famous poet Sylvia Plath. It is autobiographical in many aspects and covers her attempted suicide. The critics thought this book wasnt as literary as they had expected and I  agree that it was more fun than seriously literary. They predicted the next  novel that she was in the process of writing would be better in a literary  sense but she never finished it before her suicide. I agree that the book  is not of the same literary quality as her poems and that this is worth  mentioning in a book review, but it was still great and it is a must read  for any Plath fan.<br />This novel starts with the heroines coveted  internship with a posh fashion magazine in New York City, and then retracts  to cover past aspects of her life, such as college and dating. The story  then continues to the heroines descent into madness, including her  experiences with phsycologists and asylums and electric shock  therapy.<br />This is one of the best books I have read recently. Parts of it  made me laugh out load and other parts made me incredibly sad. The heroine  experienced and felt things so deeply, and Plath had a way of making me  feel them and experience them along with her. This is a fast-paced and  still thought-provoking book that I finished very quickly, and then went  back to read some parts again and savor the sweet little details. The Bell  Jar deserves to be on everyones bookshelf, or better yet, bedside table,  being read and reread again for the delicious little emotional masterpiece  that it is.	2000-04-07
US	37818376	R37CNN92VPH2EY	0486266842	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Classic ghost story	This classic book is a ghost story of sorts. It is not the traditional kind, with chains and things, but it is more of a psychological suspence story. A young governess goes to take care of two children- Flora, age 8,  and Miles, age 10. She soon learns that their old governess and her lover  both mysteriously died. As the story goes on she begins to see apparitions  of the two dead people, and she is convinced that the children have  something to with it. During the whole story she works to save them from  the ghosts. However, you are left to decide the whole time whether what she  is seeing is real or if the kids are really guilty or if she is psycho or  what.<br />I liked the way the plot went because I was left to figure out and  interpret things for myself the whole way along. James did not just come  out and say things but left them to be interpreted by many different ways.  This may be frustrating for readers who like the story to be spelt out to  them, but if you like suspense and trying to see a story from many  different viewpoints, you will like the story too.	2000-04-07
US	37818376	RR6QDPUYUD9TD	0380723085	633856845	Durable Goods	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sweet	Elizabeth Berg is one of my favorite authors. I have read many other books by her and loved each one of them; this one was neither an exception nor a disappointment. This story is twelve-year-old Katie's, and Elizabeth's voice is so convincing that it is hard to believe it was written by an  adult. Katie lives in a rural Texas army base with her older sister Diane  and their abusive father. I wanted to cry when Katie talked about her  mother's death, due to cancer, and I laughed out loud at her confused  attempts to keep up with her fourteen-year-old best friend Cheryl. The book  brought back memories of myself at almost-teenhood, and it is a very  convincing portrait of a young girl's life. Every small but important  aspect is covered: Katie's infatuation with her sister's boyfriend, her  daydreams of having her own boyfriend, her first period, her curious  peekings at the will-be-breasts that are first starting to appear.  <br />Katie's voice is so real and her thoughts so explained that I would  become totally lost in the story and come out it a while later to realize  that I really wasn't in her world.  <br />Elizabeth Berg's Joy School is the  sequel to Durable Goods, and I read that one first. However, Durable Goods  was still a great book and I recommend it even for those who have already  read Joy School. Pick up Durable Goods and join Katie in her fresh,  exciting world.	2000-03-10
US	37818376	R500QTBLYO8OC	0553278355	802369838	The Bell Jar	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Sensitive and Inspiring	This is the only novel written by the famous poet Sylvia Plath. It is autobiographical in many aspects and covers her attempted suicide. The critics thought this book wasnt as literary as they had expected and I agree that it was more fun than seriously literary. They predicted the next  novel that she was in the process of writing would be better in a literary  sense but she never finished it before her suicide. I agree that the book  is not of the same literary quality as her poems and that this is worth  mentioning in a book review, but it was still great and it is a must read  for any Plath fan.<br />This novel starts with the heroines coveted  internship with a posh fashion magazine in New York City, and then retracts  to cover past aspects of her life, such as college and dating. The story  then continues to the heroines descent into madness, including her  experiences with phsycologists and asylums and electric shock  therapy.<br />This is one of the best books I have read recently. Parts of it  made me laugh out load and other parts made me incredibly sad. The heroine  experienced and felt things so deeply, and Plath had a way of making me  feel them and experience them along with her. This is a fast-paced and  still thought-provoking book that I finished very quickly, and then went  back to read some parts again and savor the sweet little details. The Bell  Jar deserves to be on everyones bookshelf, or better yet, bedside table,  being read and reread again for the delicious little emotional masterpiece  that it is.	2000-03-10
US	37818376	R1O7L10OPBEN9G	067972818X	755826924	Selected Poems of Langston Hughes: A Classic Collection of Poems by a Master of American Verse (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Simple but deep poetry... inspiring!	This book of poetry was so fun and fast-paced that I read it all in one sitting. Some of the poems are so incredibly simple that they speak right to you and you say &quot;hmm... thats so true&quot;, but the concept is so  deep you never would have thought about it in such a simple way. Other  poems are really inspiring and they will make you think a lot about them  before going on to the next one. <br />In this Vintage Edition, the poems are  grouped according to categories. For instance, &quot;Afro-American  Fragments&quot; has a whole series of poems that speak of slavery and  segregation that helped me understand even better the life of the people  who overcame these tragedies, while &quot;Lament Over Love&quot; speaks  about the pains of unrequited love that just about anyone can relate to.  One of my favorite categories was &quot;Madam to You&quot;, which is a  series of poems all about one lady and what she does during her life, such  as &quot;Madam and the Rent Man&quot; and &quot;Madam and the Phone Bill  Collector&quot;.<br />I was lucky to have read these poems so soon after  reading The Souls of Black Folk, by W.E.B. DuBois, because it embraced the  theme of double conciousness that I found there. It also showed the double  conciousness of African-Americans in regard to religion, which is an  important theme in DuBois' book.<br />While I read the book I marked the pages  of the poems I liked a lot. By the time I was finished I had a huge amount  of dog-eared pages marking my &quot;favorite&quot; spots! <br />I havent read  many complete books of poetry but I extremely enjoyed this one and it  prompted me to read more. I recommend it for anyone, whether youre new to  reading a lot of poetry at once (like me), or whether you are a poetry  fanatic who for some reason have failed to get your hands on poetry by  Langston Hughes yet.	2000-03-03
US	37818376	R2ZOTHAN8PMG73	1877733075	163121156	Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist	Books	5	478	521	N	N	Powerful refute of Christianity. Score one for Skepticism.	There is one word that can sum up the effect of this book for me: &quot;powerful&quot;. Most of the books I have read about religion have been pro-religion and this is very different from the old &quot;We need  religion to fill the spiritual side of ourselves&quot; claims they always  make about it. These books produced a response from my heart, but this book  produced a response from my mind. It makes the claim that there is no more  evidence of God than there is of Zeus, or any other god that humans have  created for their stability throughout history, and it is very effective in  proving this claim. It is about time someone cries out for the intellectual  awakening of people instead of one more emotional one.<br />Dan Barker was an  evangelical minister and missionary who did everything from writing songs  and skits for children to working with youth groups to preaching street  sermons to adults. However, somewhere in the course of this career he began  to be aware of the fact that his religious beliefs were in serious conflict  from his intellectual knowledge about our scientific world.<br />This book  brought many negative aspects of Christianity to light that had been  completely ignored, conveinently explained away, or totally unknown to me  in my super-religious past. I never realized the Bible was so anti-family  and that the various qualities we attribute to God are so  self-contradicting. It also further examined some parts of the Bible I had  already wondered about, such as its blatant sexism and racism, and its  inaccuracy in accordance to history, although I had been told by every  preacher out there that it was correct.<br />If you are from a Christian  religious background I can only imagine the response my little book review  is illiciting, and I totally expect to receive self-righteous hate mail  under the guise of loving Christianity. However, I completely understand,  for if I had read a book review like this during my very devoutly religious  stage, I would have felt the same way. All I can ask you to do is read the  book for yourself. If you read it and disagree with my conclusions, that's  great and there is no harm done. I think that if anyone can truthfully  answer to themselves the questions that this book raises about religion and  can still say that it is in accordance with what they feel is moral and  intellectual, their faith will only be strenghtened. But if you have ever  been able to sing along with good old Alanis &quot;In the name of the  father, the skeptic, and the son, I have one more stupid question...&quot;-  in other words, if you have had some doubts about religion that you would  like to explore but have never known a way to do this, you will really  appreciate this book. All I can say is that it totally changed my  perception of religion and I was as strong a believer as anyone out there,  having been in church since I was an infant and continuing it in my youth  by going on many mission trips to foreign countries. I was not an atheist  who picked up this book so that I could prove I was still right; I was  actually a pretty strong Christian who was beginning to have some doubts,  and when this book was offered to me by someone I had serious pre-conceived  judgements about it and even started reading it with the desire to prove  the guy totally wrong. I was sure everything he would say would be like  &quot;I don't believe in God because I want to do what I want and no one  can tell me what to do.&quot; However, this book appealed to my mind as  well as my sense of moral rightness, and although I started page one with a  preconception that it was totally offbase, I finished it with a strong  &quot;Amen, Amen. Finally a book about religion makes totally sense!&quot;	2000-03-03
US	37818376	R2FIW3DXGP2O7J	0060930055	797221870	You Can't Go Home Again	Books	3	10	22	N	N	Interesting but lengthy	The plot of the book was very interesting and I think that it holds a special appeal for aspiring authors.  However, parts of the book are extremely drawn out, and Wolfe feels the need to tell the reader every small detail about the character's life, without seeming to care whether it is of any significance to the reader.  So although the plot is good and the  character's well-developed, it is not fast-moving and I think that many  people will become bored and restless through certain parts.  However, if  they keep reading it soon picks up again, and I feel that the book is worth  reading even though it has this negative aspect about it.<br />Another good  thing about the book is that it does an excellent job of capturing the  American spirit that persisted at the time it was written.  During the  novel the Great Depression takes place, as well as the beginning of World  War II.  The novel shows the social decay of this era and emptiness which  envades American citizens' hearts when they realize that all the money they  put so much worth in is nothingness now.  If for nothing else one should  read this book for an accurate picture of the time period in American  history.<br />Be aware of a lot of sexism and rascism throughout this novel,  which shows the time period it was written in and hopefully shows us how  far we have come- if not in reality, at least in the art of writing.  I  recommend this book for its plot and its setting, and if you like to read a  book such as this and you don't only look for an on-the-edge-of-your-seat  success story (and you can resist taking offense to some ugly comments),  and especially if you are looking for a book that represents a time and a  place very accurately, I think you will really like this book.  It  definitely has a great literary value and has stood the test of time in the  hearts of many readers and lovers of literature.	2000-01-30
US	37818376	R2UXHXM0MM83CM	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This Looooong book is worth every minute it takes to read it	This is another deep and emotion-provoking novel by bestselling author Wally Lamb, author of She's Come Undone, another one of my favorites.  This book is worthy to be called a &quot;saga&quot; because it explores so many aspects of life and has different stories which cross time periods,  generations, and cultures.  People Magazine called it &quot;a gratifying  saga of loss and redemption&quot;, and I definitely agree.  This is only a  small part of the story, and a small example of Wally's great writing.  If  you know how complicated life can get, if you ever feel like re-examining  your own life, or if you just love a good story that keeps getting more  intriguing just when you think it can't possibly be more so, then you will  love I Know This Much Is True.	2000-01-02
US	37818376	R6NPRZ8F1A361	0380723085	633856845	Durable Goods	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Convincing and emotional story	Elizabeth Berg is one of my favorite authors. I have read many other books by her and loved each one of them; this one was neither an exception nor a disappointment. This story is twelve-year-old Katie's, and Elizabeth's voice is so convincing that it is hard to believe it was written by an  adult. Katie lives in a rural Texas army base with her older sister Diane  and their abusive father. I wanted to cry when Katie talked about her  mother's death, due to cancer, and I laughed out loud at her confused  attempts to keep up with her fourteen-year-old best friend Cheryl. The book  brought back memories of myself at almost-teenhood, and it is a very  convincing portrait of a young girl's life. Every small but important  aspect is covered: Katie's infatuation with her sister's boyfriend, her  daydreams of having her own boyfriend, her first period, her curious  peekings at the will-be-breasts that are first starting to appear.  <br />Katie's voice is so real and her thoughts so explained that I would  become totally lost in the story and come out it a while later to realize  that I really wasn't in her world.  Elizabeth Berg's Joy School is the  sequel to Durable Goods, and I read that one first. However, Durable Goods  was still a great book and I recommend it even for those who have already  read Joy School. Pick up Durable Goods and join Katie in her fresh,  exciting world.	2000-01-02
US	37818376	R1MIC6XUTI5CRM	0767901304	213039504	A Face at the Window	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A chilling effect and a unique plot	I found myself really getting to know the characters and I loved the little boy in the story.  I remember staying up late immersed in a part of the book where the main character has another encounter with the ghost  world.  During this part of the book, he is very out of touch with reality,  and after I finished reading it I realized I was in the same disoriented  state.  This book is very unique, because it is not your normal ghost  story.  It combines the life stories of people who lived many years ago  with a person who lives in today's world.  Even if you don't normally read  ghost stories (I normally don't), you would probably not be able to put  this book down!  I definately wasn't able to.	1999-11-26
US	37818376	R2NSDQMOYRD5Y4	0446602736	925093281	Border Music	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Good plot but a little disappointing for this author	This book is not as good, in my opinion, as some of his other books, such as Puerto Vallarta Squeeze or Slow Waltz in Cedar Bend, but it is still sad, realistic, and a good read.  The only criticism I have is that in the  beginning, it moves too slow and gives a negative attitude about the plot  to the reader.  However, as it moves on, it gets rather good.    This book  almost made memad, the way things turn out, but it also dives into the  human indeciciveness between fantasy and reality.  This is another sad but  interesting book by Robert James Waller, and it is much easier to find than  &quot;Puerto Vallarta Squeeze.&quot;  Though, in my opinion, not his best  book, it is certainly good and worthy of the time it takes to read it.	1999-11-26
US	37818376	RPM82ZUGV66V6	0517706660	449288144	See Jane Win: The Rimm Report on How 1,000 Girls Became Successful Women	Books	4	73	75	N	N	Motivational but biased	As a woman in her first year of college, this book really encouraged me- by giving statistics and stories of women who had &quot;made it&quot;- that I can accomplish my dreams.  I loved reading about the successful women and  finding out about their lives.  However I felt the book was horribly biased  against women who were happy in their chosen careers as mothers and/or  traditional jobs such as teaching or nursing.  Just because these women  took the traditional route doesn't mean they aren't successful, but even  when the women said they were satisfied or happy with thier jobs, the  authors presented them as blantantly &quot;Unsuccessful&quot; and unworthy.   Many of the successful women in the study had had mothers who stayed at  home with them, and although it was a different time, I am sure that this  is what contributed greatly to the women in the studies success, and they  may have to sacrifice their own daughter's success because they are so busy  living their own.  I liked this book and would recommend it to any woman,  teenage girl, or parent, but I would also suggest doubling it with a book  that gives a better appreciation for REAL success that is more fulfilling  than becoming a better statistic or making more money, something that these  authors failed to even mention.  That was their biggest downfall and the  only big problem I had with this book.	1999-11-04
US	37818376	RLJEK19A86JS	0521557720	341134314	The Spanish Economy: From the Civil War to the European Community (New Studies in Economic and Social History)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fulfilled its purpose- an Informative look at Spain	This book was relatively dry but that can be expected with an economic/historical topic.  It did, however, give an informative look at Spain's economy in different subjects such as Agriculture and Industry.  I  learned a lot about Spain's economy and Spain in general from reading this  book and I recommend it for anyone who wants to fulfill that purpose as  well.	1999-11-04
