US	37831369	R11URGAH2P5BMK	0679771867	223977650	The American Way of Death Revisited	Books	3	4	11	N	Y	Good consumer information, but a misunderstanding of culture	While some of Jessica Mitford's classic work The American Way of Death has been updated in this Revisted version it does seem a bit dated.  Most American's either knowingly, after the burial, or unknowlingly have been taken advantage of by the \\"Dismal Trade\\" aka your local friendly neighborhood Undertaker.  This book gave the consumer a voice against this most secrative of undertakings.   <br /> <br />While Mitford does a great job of describing the, for lack of a better term, baloney the Funeral Trade aka Death Care Industry sells us Americans her animosity against cultural norms at time reflects her Left Leaning, British Protestant staidism.  Catholic and ethnic Americans from predominately Catholic countries tend to view the death and burial arrangements of a family member or friend a bit differently.  To describe viewings or wakes as \\"pagan\\" is just a lot of snobbery on the author's part.  As one who grew up in a very ethnic family and city I know that despite how \\"weird\\" these things seem they serve a social function.  And yes, like weddings, some people and families do go over the top.  Hey, it's a free country and you have a right, living or dead, to spend your money any way you damn well please and that includes wasting it on an overpriced funeral.  But, even I have to admit that as I have arranged for the burial of 3 relatives in 5 years I opted for a much simpler affair than which my parents and grandparents would have sprung.  So Ms. Mitford and her minions are getting their way.  She goes on to compare American Funeral Homes to their English counterparts, which from what I have read of English mortuaries in the 20th and 21st centuries I'll opt for the American versions, simply put, when English folks go to their, unregulated, local mortuaries they have been known to comment that many, as the Bible says \\"stinketh.\\"   <br /> <br />All this being said that is no excuse for exhobetent markups, undefined charges, and general rip-offs that make up many American funerals.  The book also does a service by explaining your rights with pre-paid burial plans.  And, how Death Care is being taken over by large, profit driven, corporations.  What pit falls to look out for and how to better save for your own funeral with a \\"Totten Trust.\\"  And, very good information is given on consumer based Memorial Societies. <br /> <br />This book is a handy guide for the Funeral buying public.  It is not the final word though of how we financially deal with our own finality.	2005-10-10
US	37831369	RBSFI9Y4B4X21	0520236912	351414649	Conquistadors	Books	5	8	12	N	Y	A great survey of an important turning point in history	Conquistadors by Michael Wood is the companion book to the BBC/PBS series of the same name.  This is a wonderful book and one which changed my way of thinking about the place of Columbus and those who followed him to North and South America. <br /> <br />From the guile and brutal pragmatism of Cortez to the 16th century equivilant of The Sopranos found in the Pizarro family Wood paints a detailed, exciting, and mostly sad picture of Spain's conquest of the New World.  But, the reader will be moved by the bravery of Orellana, he who first navigated fully the Amazon River.  And even more moving is the shipwreck, travels, and discovery of our common humanity in the adventures of de Vaca.   <br /> <br />In this book you will read the good and the bad.  You will also come to the conclusion, as I did, that the English and French incursions into North America pale compared to what the Spanish did and accomplished, for good and bad, in the Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, Central America and South America.  And like the last Conquistador you will conclude that the Spanish conquest of America was indeed a crime against humanity.  This book contains great photographs and wonderful descriptive commentary by the author.  It is a must for every history lovers library and should be in every American school.	2005-10-05
US	37831369	R3SJC2BJUMOIGT	1400040760	387951667	Waugh Abroad: The Collected Travel Writing (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	What Waugh Saw...	I purchased Waugh Abroad: Collected Travel Writing : The Collected Travel Writing by Evelyn Waugh because I was looking for a copy of ROBBERY UNDER THE LAW by Waugh and that book was contained in this collection.  Waugh's travel writing is informative and comical.  He tells it as he sees it in that mid-20th century English style.  There is a little bit of the \\"We've got an empire to look after\\" attitude in Waugh's travel writing.  But, that is a small price to pay for Waugh's analysis of world events and how they affected the countries he visited.  His writing is insightful and he does a good job of describing travelling, geography, history, and the good and bad folks within and without of the places he visited.  When you finish one of Waugh's travel books you feel like you have visited the country or area with him.  This book is a good read and should be on the shelf of all those who enjoy good travel writing.	2005-09-26
US	37831369	R1C4JZPGA3PXAX	0195038630	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If you only can own one Civil War history, this should be it!	I purchased Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era (Oxford History of the United States)by James M. McPherson upon its initial publication.  I am also fortunate enough to have my hard copy edition autographed by the author.  McPherson is every bit as engrossing in telling us our history in this book as he is in person and on CSpan.  James M. McPherson has a love of history that comes through in his writing, and this book is no exception.  He also has the ability to convey history in understandable terms and hold the interest of the reader.  The book is like those on site history tours.  It is captivating.  In fact I read all 900 plus pages in 3 days.   <br /> <br />McPherson does a great job of covering events, the culture, and attitudes leading up to the American Civil War.  Most notably he writes about the very important, but most often overlooked, \\"Christiana Riot.\\"  His descriptions of battles, civilian and military leaders is first rate.  Cultural and political attitudes are also covered thoroughly.   <br /> <br />If you can only own one history of the American Civil War Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era (Oxford History of the United States)by James M. McPherson would be the book to buy.  Finally, Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era (Oxford History of the United States)by James M. McPherson belongs in every school, college, and university bookshelf. <br /> <br />	2005-09-22
US	37831369	R1G2VJSGHTUGNG	0060570040	431893628	Better Off: Flipping the Switch on Technology	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Is too much techology a sin?	Better Off : Flipping the Switch on Technology by Eric Brende is a wonderful read.  This diary of he and his wife moving to into a community devoid of electricity and the gadgetry we take for granted is fascinating and thought provoking.      The book shows that with some thought one can overcome naivite and live more simply with less technology.  The book is never preachy and the author does not point fingers.  He just puts forth the proposition that maybe you don't need that computer or that ipod as much as you think you do.  Brende makes it clear we in the US are slaves to technology.  He shows how automation actually makes us work harder and takes away from our health and free time.    This book is a good and quick read and should be on your shelf.  It is a good meditation after a drive home from the local shopping mall.	2005-09-19
US	37831369	R3C3HZ83N7G9XT	0812693906	127294983	The Ayn Rand Cult	Books	3	9	25	N	Y	Would have been a better study if not so anecdotal	When I was in high school, many years ago, one of my classmates announced that she was a \\"Nietsche Atheist.\\"  The following year she announced that the best book ever written was Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand.  At both pronouncements we sat there either puzzled or bored.  I do not remember her name, but I do remember that she wore black for the most part, spoke French a lot, and was lacking of any humor.  I think of her from time to time and wonder what she is doing now.  One day watching CSpan they visited the Ayn Rand Institute.  Now I think I understand why that classmate of mine was so bleak. It has to be hard feeling superior and have no one listen to you.    Every time I go to my local bookstore I pick up Atlas Shrugged, start to read it and put it down immediately. It is so boring it makes your eyes glaze over.  The only good thing is that her books tend to be in a part of stores that teens usually do not frequent, so in a generation or two Rand will be forgotten.  Ayn Rand has to be on the top of the list of all time nut jobs ever produced by American Culture.  Yes, I know, she was born in Russia.  But, she really is a product of the good ol' USA.      I came across The Ayn Rand Cult by Jeff Walker.  Since his study of Ayn Rand and her adherents started as a CBC documentary I thought this would be a good read.  While the book did a good job of describing Rand and her Objectivist aka Objectivism movement it was too overloaded with quotes from academic studies on cults and anecdotal evidence from followers and one time followers of Rand.  Where the book does a good job is in showing how if one is somewhat charasmatic, can intimidate people, and convince them of their superior knowledge (without anything to back it up)that individual will never have to have a real job for the rest of his or her life.  Ayn Rand and her followers are self delusional know it alls with no sense of humor about life or this world.  They protect themselves from all criticism by refusingto listen to any criticism.  The book shows that they have embraced immorality and dressed it up with self defined rationality.  But, for this book, less would have been more, as it tends to drone on.    Finally, the author somehow compares the followers and admirers of Ayn Rand with the admirers of C.S. Lewis.  That is certainly a stretch as Lewis was not afraid to listen to criticism.  Rand on the other hand would quarter no criticism.  This may just be reflective of the author's subconcious anti-religionism.	2005-09-14
US	37831369	R1S61WLC6ZYEHK	1565849213	452187769	Founding Myths: Stories That Hide Our Patriotic Past	Books	1	28	76	N	N	Why you should feel guilty about the Founding of the United States	As the continental army supported by militia made up of farmers and craftsman stormed the Winter Palace.  Oops wrong Revolution.  As a student of history I feel that much of what we think is our collective history and what we think about our historical figures must be de-mythologized.  That being said Founding Myths: Stories That Hide Our Patriotic Past by Ray Raphael is just a whiny tome.  The first clue is when you see anything on a book jacket referring to a \\"peoples\\" history.  That is a sure indication that the subject matter will be presented from a Marxist point of view.<br /><br />Much of what the author states in this book is fact and should be made known.  But, the writing comes across as bitter.  Mr. Raphael seems upset that every school student does not feel guilty about our history.  He puts forth the idea that if every 6 year old were taught nothing but the uncensored unadulterated truth about our nation the United States would essentially be Switzerland.  He devotes a whole chapter to the film The Patriot.  One can only ponder if anyone told him, \\"Hey, Ray, it's only a movie.\\"  Would Mr. Raphael put forth the same ire about the film JFK?  After reading this book, I doubt it.<br /><br />The author, so wrapped up in his own historic self-righteousness, makes reading this book tedious.  And that is a shame because he obviously, to his credit, did a lot of research.  The author obviously does not understand the part myth and hero worship play in all socities.  Ray Raphael needs to read a book like Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody by Will Cuppy to show how you can de-mythologize history and people and not take yourself so seriously.  If you read the conclusion of this book you see that some school districts and states have adopted it as source material in teaching US history.  My only thought here is that if they did or do they should have therapists on hand to treat the depression of those children between 5 and 15.	2005-09-07
US	37831369	RU2VWKAQLX9I0	0812925793	317395295	Over the Hills: A Midlife Escape Across America by Bicycle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hope for all of us Middle Aged Dreamers	Over the Hills: : A Midlife Escape Across America by Bicycle <br />by David Lamb is a book for folks who like to read travel writing, people trying to do their personal best, or real adventure books.  This is a great story about a person who made a promise to himself despite the misgivings of family and friends.  His description of how this trip affected his fitness and details of towns and cities are wonderful.  It shows what one man can do, for himself.  You feel like your peddling right along with David Lamb.  A great book, a fast read, and a great literary adventure.  Buy this book.	2005-08-31
US	37831369	RSK6X4WV651J5	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bryson is a great travelling companion	I listened to A Walk in the Woods : Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail by Bill Bryson on tape.  It was my first introduction to his writing, and since that time I have read many of his other books.  Bryson works the language like an artist.  He holds your attention.  And, A Walk In The Woods shows there is still hope for the out of shape middle aged American.  His description of the Appalachian Trail, its history, and scenery are exquisite.  But, you come away from this book understanding what the Appalachian Trail means to America and Americans.  Walking, hiking, or running part or all of it is something we can all do.  While on a long drive this book was good company.  Anything Bryson writes will always be amusing and interesting.  Put this one on your shelf.	2005-08-31
US	37831369	R33LDWXXV2DBZP	0385318960	177636003	Hasty Retreat (Mother Lavinia Grey Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mother, with the help of friends, sorts it all out...	This is my first introduction to the mystery writings of Kate Gallison, a fellow Jerseyite.  A pleasant introduction to her Mother Lavinia Grey mysteries.  I picked this book up on a whim, as I usually don't read fiction.  I just wanted something light that would hold my interest and Hasty Retreat answered that request on both accounts.   <br /> <br />First off, if your Roman Catholic, like me, you think Mother Superior, but Mother Lavinia Grey is an Episcopal Priest, so one must get the title Mother straight.  Once I got beyond that it was smooth sailing.   <br /> <br />In my book you can never go wrong in setting a mystery in a monestery.  If you liked The Name of the Rose by Eco and The Haunted Monastery by Van Gulik you will certainly enjoy Hasty Retreat.  This mystery has great characters beside Mother Grey, I especially enjoyed Deacon Deedee.  My only negative about this book is that the dialogue in the beginning of the book is a bit choppy and at times I wondered who was actually speaking.  But, as I read on the writer overcame this problem and good story development took over.  Hasty Retreat is a good and enjoyable read.	2005-08-29
US	37831369	RN5R4G1IGH7OR	0849918170	184919732	Speaking My Mind: The Radical Evangelical Prophet Tackles the Tough Issues Christians Are Afraid to Face	Books	4	23	26	N	N	To believe in something one must keep an open mind.	I'm a Roman Catholic by birth and practice.  I guess you could say I had a \\"born again\\" experience over 20 years ago.  My Christian faith moved from that passive cultural anchor, it had always been, to a real belief in the truth that was Jesus Christ.  Dr. Tony Campolo through his writings, talks, and former radio show, has been along with me on my \\"walk.\\"  I am always grateful for Dr. Campolo's civility.  When reading or listening to him I always feel as if I am being asked, \\"Can we talk?\\"   <br /> <br />And Speaking My Mind : The Radical Evangelical Prophet Tackles the Tough Issues Christians Are Afraid to Face by Tony Campolo continues that tradition for me.  In plain language Dr. Campolo lays out the issues and tells the reader what he believes and where he stands.  He covers the past, present, and future of the Evangelical camp of Christianity.  While at times disappointed, he is none the less optimistic.  He also tackles the burning moral and political issues of our day.  He gives his views on sexism, homosexual rights, abortion, and America's place in this world.  He most passionate when it comes to our obligation as Christians to help the poor.   <br /> <br />While I agree with much of what he says in Speaking My Mind : The Radical Evangelical Prophet Tackles the Tough Issues Christians Are Afraid to Face.  I think he is at times naive and somewhat skewed in his view of things.  He is correct to criticize how \\"Fundamentalists\\" use text proofing to continue policies of hate towards homosexuals.  On the other hand, in my opinion, Dr. Campolo exegetes passages of scripture to fit his argument.  So, in the end he is essentially guilty of the same thing.  I think he is much too forgiving of the UN, especially its corruption, which he never mentions, and the UN's bureaucratic inability to act quickly in human tragedies like Rwanda.  Finally, he is correct in being critical of Christians who associate their faith with the Republican party.  But, at times this bookreads like Democratic Party talking points. <br /> <br />All this being said, I like Tony Campolo and I consider him a brother in Christ.  I may not always agree with him, but I respect him for laying it all out on the table.  I highly recommend this book if you have read criticism of Tony Campolo and want to hear his side of the story.  And, buy this book if you want an interesting read on the state of American Christianity today. Finally Dr. Campolo if you are reading this, boy do I miss your radio show.	2005-08-22
US	37831369	R15E9F09F5DEY4	0312283571	433898447	Trials of the Monkey: An Accidental Memoir	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	Monkey Man Tells All	Matthew Chapman is a great talent.  He is a naturally gifted and funny writer.  That being said, for most of his life he was convinced he was the center of the universe.  Now he is not so sure.  Matthew Chapman is the great great grandson of Charles Darwin, and that is a lot to live up too.  In this autobiography, Chapman's first book we discover he is the worst possible combination of human beings.  He is a committed Darwinist, an atheist, a Hollywood liberal, and on top of all that, Eurotrash.  <br /> <br />I have been doing some reading on Evolution and the Creation/Evolution conflict and came across Trials of the Monkey:  An Accidental Memoir.  It was a quick and enjoyable read, and for most of the book, I really wanted to hate this, Chapman's first book.  But, I could not put it down.  As a human being, for most of his life he was a poor excuse for a man, but by the end of the book I came to like him.  The book is about Chapman's adventures in Dayton, TN home of the infamous \\"Monkey Trial.\\"  In between writing about going to Dayton, visiting Dayton, and leaving Dayton we learn about the life of Matthew Chapman, his parents, especially his mother, and his siblings.   <br /> <br />While Chapman certainly has no place for organzied religion, he does admit that \\"faith\\" has a place in humanity.  He also came to respect those fundamentalist Christians he interacted with in Dayton.  I could say more, but would give away too much.   <br /> <br />Are there better books about Evolution, Creationism, and The Scope's Trial, yes.  That being said Trials of the Monkey: An Accidental Memoir is an enjoyable and amusing read.	2005-08-14
US	37831369	R2APIKR9BEB33Q	0689876475	322710441	Nothing's Sacred	Books	1	6	14	N	N	Would Lewis Black read his book to an audience in Vegas or AC?	No.  Why, it's awful, plus the fact that most folks who paid $50 plus to listen to a comedian would not find continual references to genitalia, both male and female, urination and defecation not all that amusing.  (For those of you who rated this book 5 stars:  Defecate: To void feces from the bowels.  The exception here being it voids from Lewis Black's mind.)    Before reading this book I thought Lewis Black was the funniest person in America, now I know that title is held by Dick Cheney, but I digress.      In this autobiographical tome Black comes forth like the town hippie of my youth.  Simply, he has more Sh*t than a stuffed turkey.  You'll learn things like he almost went to Woodstock, well who born between 1945 and 1960 didn't almost go to Woodstock?  And, at the time of Watergate he hated Richard Nixon, well who under 30 didn't hate Richard Nixon during those dreadful times?  The only endearing parts to this book were his references to his family.  But, that in no way makes up for this ode to awfulness.  I should have known I was in trouble when on the back cover of the dust jacket Black gets accolades, obviously from his friends (hey what are friends for -- to warn you away from writing a book like Nothing's Sacred,) from people who, it appears, have not read Nothing's Sacred.  So he's a playwright, quick anyone, even Black's fans, without referring to this book, name one play he wrote.  Black also reminds the reader, time and again and again and again, he smoked pot.  If Black smoked pot as much as he claims then why is this book so unfunny?  Well good writing and good comedy are sacred, so avoid this accessory for an outhouse and read anything Mark Twain wrote about the Mormans or France.	2005-08-04
US	37831369	R3L6X49BDPYXAL	0801027977	973781768	Is the Reformation Over?: An Evangelical Assessment of Contemporary Roman Catholicism	Books	3	12	17	N	Y	Do you want the long version or the short version?	The authors, Mark A. Noll and Carolyn Nystrom, do a good job of giving an overview of Protestant/Roman Catholic relations since Vatican II.  That being said, the book, at times was a tedious read, because it tended to repeat itself.  A quick look at the book's references to ECT, Evangelicals and Catholics Together, bears that out.  To the books credit it does show that when it comes down to individual believers you see a lot of cross over and confusion when it comes to orthodoxy in each faith tradition.  The authors also show that a lot of the distrust on the part of both parties is rooted in historical prejudices and outright misstatements on what the other side believes.  I would have liked to see more on how Protestantism, in all forms, never really agreed, vis-a-vis, the Reformed, Arminian, and Anabaptist camps of what became known as the Protestant Churches. And, how all forms of Protestantism kept the parts of Roman Catholic thought and theology that suited their purposes.  The book is a good reference, but in its case, less would have been more in what the authors did present.	2005-08-01
US	37831369	RTQBHNR0LSYHH	0060524308	400007646	Bound for Canaan: The Underground Railroad and the War for the Soul of America	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Should be required reading in every US High School	My wife and I caught a lecture by the Author of Bound For Canaan: The Underground Railrod and the War for The Soul of America, Fergus M. Bordewich, on CSpan.  His talk really intrigued us both.  So, on that basis we purchased his book.  Being a product of a late 60's early 70's college education and a History major I did take early courses in the Civil War and Reconstruction and African-American History, neither of which got to the heart of what is known as \\"The Underground Railroad.\\" <br /> <br />The author did a superb job in explaining the movement to free slaves in the United States, the people and places involved, and the obstacles to getting human beings from slavery to freedom.  Mr. Bordewich does not just tell the reader about routes to freedom or known entities in this movement, but emphasis the human factor.  He shows the reader how slavery in the US, practiced even in its mildest form, was an oppresive de-humanizing system.  He explains the rationalization, in the minds of people like Thomas Jefferson, who despite his philosophical ponderings on the subject of slavery, because of prejudices in how he viewed Africans really did nothing to alleviate the suffering of the slaves he owned. <br /> <br />The author does an excellent job in explaining the motivations of everyone involved in The Underground Railroad movement.  Some were motivated by religion, others by philosophy, others for humanitarian reasons, and most importantly of all Black America's desire for freedom and equality.  To me, the most interesting parts of this history were the author's explaining how slaves themselves did much to aid their own escape.  It brought to life that African-Americans were not passive victims waiting to be saved by white men.  Slaves and free Blacks took the problem in hand to secure their own freedom and the freedom of their fellow men. <br /> <br />The book does much to destroy the mythology of the Post-Civil War America, where slavery was looked upon as beneficialto African-Americans.  The book does much to dispell the bigger myth of the benevolent slave holder or master.  The author points out that even when the slave owner was \\"kind\\" to his slaves in many cases families were broken up and promises to slaves were not kept.  Not to mention, how slave owners lied to take advantage of slaves who purchased their own freedom and the freedom of family members. <br /> <br />This book should be required reading for every high school student in the United States.  It shows how the problems of race, that continue to plague this nation, and the problems in Black America are attributable to the institution of slavery.  Unless we truly seek to understand the past, we have no future. Bound For Canaan: The Underground Railroad And The War For The Soul Of America by Fergus M. Bordewich is one tool to help us do just that. <br /> <br />This fine work of history is a definite buy. <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-07-14
US	37831369	R2IKYODFICUE0J	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Always refreshing to read a book that presents the facts....	Summer for the Gods by Edward Larson is a wonderful history of the famous \\"Scopes\\" trial.  A trial whose mythology has defined both the teaching of biology and modern attitudes in 21st century America.  As a youngster I remember seeing Scopes as a guest on some game show from the 1950's.  He was soft spoken and unforgettable.  Larson presents the facts of the case of the State of Tennessee's prosecution of Scopes for teaching Darwin's theory of evolution.  Simply, it was a put up job to get free pubilicity for the backwater town of Dayton, TN.  Larson lists all the major players in this little drama, known and unknown, Darrow, Bryan, the ACLU, Hicks, Hays, and many others who played a part in a trial that has branded the American psyche.  Larson shows that the ACLU was actually the most level headed and fair in this drama.  Bryan, whose politics, today, despite his theology, would be considered a liberal, is shown to be sincere, but misguided.  Darrow was the consumate \\"celebrity\\" lawyer looking for noteriety and publicity.  The author shows how the ill-informed play \\"Inherit the Wind\\" has falsely defined what the \\"Scopes\\" trial was all about.  Larson is fair and presents the facts in readable form.  The author also shows how because the case was grounded in a small town's need to showcase itself, Bryan's uninformed scientific and theological views, Darrow's prejudicial view of religion, H.L Mencken's cynicism, and a bumpkin school teacher volunteering for the spotlight that both sides in the evolution issue are as adamant as ever, and the issue of how biology is taught in schools is still with us.  This is a great book and should be required reading in all High School History, Biology, and English classes.	2005-06-20
US	37831369	R1WWL32DJ15EUB	0142001325	612392363	Our Lady of the Lost and Found: A Novel of Mary, Faith, and Friendship	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A great work of fiction for Catholics....	I don't usually read fiction, why, maybe it is because much of it plays fast and loose with the facts, yes I know, that is why it is fiction.  Anyway,  I was looking through a book catalog when I saw the title OUR LADY OF THE LOST AND FOUND: A NOVEL.  The descrtiption intrigued me, so I purchased a copy.  This is my first introduction to Diane Schoemperlen.  I liked the style of this book, part diary, part history, and part written meditation on God, the Blessed Virgin Mary, Love, Grace, and Faith.  While I thought that the author did go off on tangents once or twice, most notably her chapter on FGM, on the whole this is an almost perfect book, for me.  I liked the story and could identify with the characters.  The main character being, my presumption, a reflection of the author.  Schoemperlen asks the questions of the ages, that have always been asked.  Those times at night, when we wake up and stare at the ceiling.  For a non-Catholic Diane Schoemperlen really has a grasp of what the Virgin Mary means to Catholics and their fellow Christians.  The book is a great little history of Marian visions and Marian devotion.  I consider myself on the conservative side of Catholicism and enjoyed this book immensely.  I can highly recommend it to Catholics and non-Catholics alike who wish to understand the part Mary plays in the life of many Christians.  This is actually 4 1/2 stars.  A definite buy.	2005-05-27
US	37831369	R3PB6RRWRNV5BM	0801434858	856326088	Storming the Heavens: The Soviet League of the Militant Godless	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Good reference source....	I thought I would add my user name to this review and some anecdotal information.<br /><br />Be warned, this volume reads like a doctoral thesis. Lots of facts and footnotes, but not much excitement. Daniel Peris presents a Soviet Union, great on sloganeering, but not much in the action department. This should be a warning to our leaders here in the U.S., you cannot attack a situation by creating a bureaucracy, one need only look at our so-called \\"war on drugs.\\" But I digress. The author focuses solely on the Soviet regime's efforts to remove Russian Orthodoxy from the life of the typical Soviet peasant or worker. I would like to have known more on how this organization approached Islam and other non-Christian religions in the hinterlands. As we approach the millenium, U.S. society has managed to accomplish, what a Soviet bureaucracy couldn't, the eradication of religion from the public square. The difference being is that we, as a people, simply appealed to society's base insticts.<br /><br />My mother and other family friends visited the Soviet Union during the Brezhnev era.  Their observation was that when an important family event occured it seemed important that the parents of a baby or bridal party visit the neighborhood or town monument to the great patriotic war.  So the Soviet leadership just replaced religious icons with icons from their own history.<br /><br />In closing this book should be in the library of anyone interested in the history of the Soviet Union.	2005-05-24
US	37831369	R1S02MLXST43VY	019504634X	313724064	Bloody Dawn: The Christiana Riot and Racial Violence in the Antebellum North	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	An important historical event that is often overlooked	Bloody Dawn: The Christiana Riot and Racial Violence in the Antebellum North by Thomas P. Slaughter covers an event leading up to the American Civil War that is every bit as important as John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry.  On my many trips from NJ to Lancaster County, PA I frequently pass through the sleepy little village of Christiana, PA.  With the exception of a monument to what is known as \\"The Chrisitana Riot\\" one would never know how this little hamlet played a part in the upcoming American Civil War.  The book tells the story of how Edward Gorsuch, a slave owner from Maryland, came to Christiana, PA with the full force of federal law, the Fugitive Slave Act, behind him to retrieve his property, Noah Buley, Nelson Ford, and the two brothers Joshua and George Hammond who ran awy from Gorsuch's farm in 1849.  For the most part the book focuses in the events of September 11, 1851.  Slaughter's book really shows how this was not a riot at all, but an armed resistance of free blacks and runaway slaves against slave catchers made up of a the slave owner and his family, a federal marshall, and the local laboring class who saw a chance to get even a make a quick buck.  The book puts to rest the idea of the cowering runaway slave and shows how a free black from Philadelphia, Samual Williams tailed the Federal Marshall, Henry Kline and warned the African-Americans in Lancaster County of the coming of Edward Gorsuch and his intent to take back his property. The author also tells us about William Parker, a runaway slave who set up a \\"Self-Protection Society\\" to combat the local slave catching gangs in the area.  The book also covers the treason trial of Parker's white neighbor, Castner Hanway, a miller who went to see what was going on and to warn the slave catchers that the African Americans were fully prepared to defend themselves.  Hanway was neither a Quaker or an abolitionist, but after being found not guilty of treason became both and set about speaking against slavery.  This is a great book and will break down myths about African Americans in the Antebellum North, Quakers, and abolitionists.  The sub-title is kind of a misnomer as the book focuses in on Lancaster County and really doesn't cover the rest of the northern states.  My only complaint is that while the author does a good job of explaining racial and economic tensions in antebellum Lancaster County, explains the attitudes of groups like the Quakers, yes some owned slaves, he never mentions the attitude toward slavery and African Americans of the other notable religious groups in the area, namely the Mennonites and Amish.  This book should be part of every Civil War library.avery.  This is a great book and will break down myths about African Americans in the Antebellum North, Quakers, and abolitionists.  The sub-title is kind of a misnomer as the book focuses in on Lancaster County and really doesn't cover the rest of the northern states.  My only complaint is that while the author does a good job of explaining racial and economic tensions in antebellum Lancaster County, explains the attitudes of groups like the Quakers, yes some owned slaves, he never mentions the attitude toward slavery and African Americans of the other notable religious groups in the area, namely the Mennonites and Amish.  This book should be part of every Civil War library. <br />	2005-05-16
US	37831369	R20RHAR9V9ZY8B	0785272976	943080223	Finding Peace: God's Promise of a Life Free from Regret, Anxiety, and Fear	Books	4	31	33	N	Y	A great grasp of the "human" condition	I have always admired Dr. Charles Stanley.  For this Christian he has always been a source of wisdom.  The Book FINDING PEACE is just the ticket if you, like me, at times, find yourself frustrated and not at peace.  It is good practical, Bible based wisdom.  It is a great study of the human condition.  The only fault I find with the book, and it is a minor one, is that it is one thing to take control of your thinking and quite another to be caught up in circumstances beyond your control.  I think that could have been addressed a bit more thoroughly.  That being said, there is a lot of great Bible based advice in this book.  I can recommend it.	2005-05-04
US	37831369	R2Y2OTBHDFHWBD	1569553211	494880933	Coffee With Nonna: The Best Stories of My Catholic Grandmother	Books	4	13	18	N	N	If you grew up around your Italian grandmother buy this book	My wife gave me Coffee With Nonna as a gift.  It is a charming little tome.  The author Vincent Iezzi transports the reader back to every urban Italian neighborhood in World War II.  His grandmother, Nonna, in Italian, like most folks of her generation has little or no formal education.  But, despite that handicap these folks made their way to and in America because of their folk wisdom.  This book makes a nice gift for all your Italian friends and family.  It is also a good introduction into Italian-American culture.	2005-03-20
US	37831369	R2L9GBUAE2IBDO	0757301231	314667121	If God Is Good, Why Is The World So Bad?	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	A nice perspective on the problem of suffering	I heard Rabbi Blech being interviewed on the Christian radio program, The White Horse Inn.  His view on suffering intrigued me as I was going through some trying times with illness in our family.  Rabbi Blech tries to help the reader come to terms with those times when one feels their prayers are just bouncing back off the ceiling.  Most people, I think, have cried out for God and God seems to be on vacation.  Rabbi Blech goes on to show the reader how God is always there and why our suffering may or may not be our own doing.  Despite our own doubts the author shows that God is always there.  This book should be on the shelf of all clergy.  And for the lay person, it is a comfort.	2005-03-06
US	37831369	R1ZVSWFZXP24P6	1890626252	524105207	Faith of the Fatherless: The Psychology of Atheism	Books	5	32	55	N	N	Vitz does establish a pattern...	First off, to attack this book as \\"unscientific\\" is just disingenous.  Vitz does admit, in his book, that there are exceptions to every rule.  This is not a book to prove or disprove the existance of God, and the author says as much.  What Paul C. Vitz sets out to do, he does accomplish.  He does show there is a pattern to how the most famous and well known atheists related, as children, to their fathers or the father figures in their lives.  He also looks at famous theists and does show that, for the most part, they had positive relationships with their fathers or other adult males in their lives.  One of the more interesting points Vitz makes is that atheist philosophy, which says it so admires science, is in many respects in complete contradiction with what scientists believe about how religious thought develops.  The author is fair in encouraging the reader to make up their own minds based on arguments found in philosophy, theology, science and history, about the existance or non-existance of God.  There is refreshingly, no bold pronouncement here.  Vitz makes a good argument that there is a psychology to atheism.  Finally, unlike the pronouncements and writings of many atheists, there is no arrogance here, just good scholarship.  This is a good, quick, and interesting read.	2005-02-03
US	37831369	R3JCQ0KMNMB1EK	1590520149	47783757	Sense and Sensuality: Jesus Talks to Oscar Wilde on the Pursuit of Pleasure (Great Conversations Series)	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Jesus And The Wilde Life	I have been a fan of Dr. Zacharias' books and lectures for many years now.  Having recently read biographies of both Oscar Wilde and Lord Alfred Douglas I thought there would be some interesting insight here.  The book is not as strong as it could be.  As for the life of Wilde there is really nothing new here.  That said, the conversation between Jesus, Oscar Wilde, and Blaise Pascal creates an interesting juxtaposition.  Dr. Zacharias has done a great service in his conversation with Jesus series of books.  My only negative comment is the back handed comments by Dr. Zacharias in this book toward Roman Catholic liturgy and sacramental belief.  As a Catholic, that is one conversation I would like to have with Dr. Ravi Zacharias.	2005-01-24
US	37831369	R1O9EDEN95TC08	0895260476	989380415	The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History	Books	3	13	38	N	Y	It Refreshingly Expresses A Much Needed Point Of View	Dr. Woods does seem to have a grasp of some of the facts, but I think his view is somewhat naive when it comes to the fate of Black America prior to the introduction and enforcement of Civil Rights legislation.  One can say, about almost anything, that eventually because of economics or social pressure things will improve. But, that could be a very long time and there is no excuse for separate water fountains, seating in bus and train stations, etc.<br /><br />Kudos though for telling it like it is about our State Department, loaded with Commies and Communist Sympathizers in the 30's, 40's, and 50's.  Also, for pointing out how over rated both FDR and Truman are as Presidents.  These two, to quote General McCarthur, \\"temporary occupants of the White House,\\" were a disaster when it came to dealing with Soviet Russia, and Stalin and world communism in general.<br /><br />A refreshing break from the usual left-wing clap trap that passes for history now adays.<br /><br />The book actually rates a 2 1/2.	2005-01-13
US	37831369	R1GVPXBLY7RACS	0786887702	181918223	Bosie: The Man, The Poet, The Lover of Oscar Wilde	Books	5	4	4	N	N	And suddenly the love that wouldn't shut up	Having read The Unmasking of Oscar Wilde by Joseph Pearce, I decided that it would be interesting to know more about the person who is made out to be the villain in Oscar Wilde's downfall.<br /><br />Bosie by Douglas Murray is a detailed book chronicling the life of Lord Alfred Douglas.  It is a detailed account of a man hounded by family traits, his own desires, repentence, regrets and sad ending.  It really is unfair to blame Alfred Douglas for Wilde's downfall.  Wilde, if anything, was self destructive and not only destroyed himself, but everyone around him, including his wife and children, as well as Alfred Douglas.  Murray is clear that upon renouncing his wasted and immoral youth Douglas became a moralist, like the father he hated, and became addicted to litigating every slight made against him.  Wilde's circle of friends and admirers needed someone to blame for his demise, so they picked Lord Alfred Douglas.  This book shows that like all moralists Douglas became paranoid and biased, but later in life did truly repent and apologized for all the harm he had done.  He died penniless, alone and very, very sad.  Like Wilde, Douglas's actions also destroyed his marriage and the life of his child.  Bosie by Douglas Murray is required reading for all those who want to make up their own minds on Oscar Wilde and know more about the man who figured so prominently in Wilde's life.	2004-12-26
US	37831369	R3V2E05IFGW3XR	038551316X	86124043	The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ	Books	1	23	71	N	N	Don't Take My Word For It...Listen to Mark Twain	\\"ALL men have heard of the Mormon Bible, but few except the \\"elect\\" have seen it, or, at least, taken the trouble to read it. I brought away a copy from Salt Lake. The book is a curiosity to me, it is such a pretentious affair, and yet so \\"slow,\\" so sleepy; such an insipid mess of inspiration. It is chloroform in print. If Joseph Smith composed this book, the act was a miracle -- keeping awake while he did it was, at any rate. If he, according to tradition, merely translated it from certain ancient and mysteriously-engraved plates of copper, which he declares he found under a stone, in an out-of-the-way locality, the work of translating was equally a miracle, for the same reason.       The book seems to be merely a prosy detail of imaginary history, with the Old Testament for a model; followed by a tedious plagiarism of the New Testament. The author labored to give his words and phrases the quaint, old-fashioned sound and structure of our King James's translation of the Scriptures; and the result is a mongrel -- half modern glibness, and half ancient simplicity and gravity. The latter is awkward and constrained; the former natural, but grotesque by the contrast. Whenever he found his speech growing too modern -- which was about every sentence or two -- he ladled in a few such Scriptural phrases as \\"exceeding sore,\\" \\"and it came to pass,\\" etc., and made things satisfactory again. \\"And it came to pass\\" was his pet. If he had left that out, his Bible would have been only a pamphlet.\\"    from Mark Twain's book \\"Roughing It\\".     (...)	2004-12-21
US	37831369	R38KS6Q99425IB	1586170260	751711983	The Unmasking of Oscar Wilde	Books	4	24	35	N	Y	The author is maybe a little too forgiving, but thorough...	Before reading this biography all I knew about Oscar Wilde was that he was oversexed and the author of The Picture of Dorian Gray.  Joseph Peace does a good job of revealing Wilde's upbringing, studies, and career.  In fact I am now reading and pondering other works of Wilde's like, De Profundis.      The author seems harsh to Wilde's lovers and most forgiving of the \\"Wilde Life.\\"  The book paints a picture of Oscar Wilde as a gifted artist who, as his life progressed, became a moral degenirate and a drunkard, in that order.  Wilde apparently felt and even expressed remorse, but seemed incapable of acting on it.  Yes, \\"We have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God.\\"  But, that said, Oscar Wilde was predatory in his pursuit of and obsession with younger men.  As Pearce points out, Wilde's sin destroyed his family and destroyed him.  Wilde died almost friendless and a pauper.  Wilde didn't seem so much interested in love as he did in pleasure.  What Wilde expressed on paper he was not capable of in himself.  The book is an interesting study of the decadent movement of the 19th century in art and literature, and will open the reader up to lesser known writers and artists, who were Wilde's contemporaries.  Pearce does make the reader feel sad for Wilde as he was brilliantly talented, but morally a train wreck.  Over all, not a bad read and a good introduction to the life of Oscar Wilde.	2004-12-09
US	37831369	R2LA8JQAE93NCK	0895260514	783985120	In Defense of Internment: The Case for Racial Profiling in World War II and the War on Terror	Books	3	15	37	N	Y	Well Researched But Ignored Part Of The History	I once met a chap, born in the US, whose first name was Benito and middle name was Mussolini.  Yes, there were people in the US in World War II who held sentimental and patriotic feelings toward our Axis enemies.      In Defense of Internment does a good job of pointing out just how much a threat, to the US, Japan's Intelligence Network was during the first couple of years of World War II.  I also had the great honor of taking an Industrial Psychology class in college with a retired Army Colonel who told me that when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor if they would have attacked the west coast of the United States our first line of defense would have been the Rocky Mountains.  The US could not defend the West Coast.  So Malkin just doesn't point out the threat to make a point about our post 9/11 world.  And, there is nothing like facts, and the book has a great appendix of Intelligence reports from World War II, to make ACLU types howl.  Japan had an intricate and well organized intelligence service in the United States prior to WW II.  And, that service included Japanese Americans those with and those without US Citizenship.  To deny this fact, is to deny history.    But, where this book fails is that Ms. Malkin never explains why most Americans of German or Italian descent, like my family, were not even bothered during WW II?  Also, she pooh poohs the loss of private property, especially in the Imperial Valley of California, of Japanese Americans.  Their land and other items were, for all intents and purposes, stolen from them.  And, she fails to explain why military government wouldn't have worked on the west coast of the US like it did in Hawaii.  This probably would have avoided internment.      Don't get all in a huff.  The book is an easy read, has good documentation by the author and just presents a point of view.  In the final analysis Ms. Malkin's equivocation of the threat of WW II Japan and modern day terror falls flat.	2004-10-29
US	37831369	R55CAA4AU8U2O	0945167172	359735059	Fair, Clear, and Terrible: The Story of Shiloh Maine	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	The problem with Faith based on personality	I read this book when it was first published, and recently purchased a copy for a friend.  If you, like I, are interested in the Religious history of the United States I can highly recommend Fair, Clear, and Terrible: The Story of Shiloh Maine by Shirley Nelson.  This is the kind of non-fiction work that would make a great movie.  The author sets the tone right in the beginning of the book, with that whispered about \\"thing\\" in a family's past.  The author shows how when the focus of one's faith is not God, but the preacher, something terrible usually will happen, and at Shiloh it did.  This book is a good study in the cult of personality.  I don't want to give too much away but will end in saying that Fair, Clear, and Terrible: The Story of Shiloh Maine by Shirley Nelson should be republished in paperback, it is that important of a book to those interested in the Religious history of the United States.	2004-10-25
US	37831369	R2YW64B4MXI8Y8	0829417710	407524504	Notre Dame Vs. the Klan: How the Fighting Irish Defeated the Ku Klux Klan	Books	5	28	31	N	Y	Fills In The Blanks	I enjoyed this book immensely.  While focusing on a little known event in the Catholic experience in America, it actually filled in the blanks on the history of the Ku Klux Klan.  I did know that at one time the Klan controlled politics in Indiana, but I was always curious as to how these yokels took over a Northern state.  Mr. Tucker does a great job in expressing the emotions and attitudes of 1920's Indiana and probably much of America at that time.  This is a great book for anyone interested in Catholic history, US history, and the history of hate groups in the United States. This book is a good read.	2004-10-25
US	37831369	R1DQIGFDL5TN91	0689812361	432327679	Running Out of Time	Books	5	8	12	N	Y	You decide....	This is a great novel for young and old.  I actually liked it much more than the movie, The Village.  In fact it probably would have made a better movie.  At any rate, one can see where M. Night Shyamalan could certainly have gotten the idea for his movie, The Village.  This book, unlike the movie, The Village, is action packed.  A good fast read.  So buy it, read it, and decide for yourself.	2004-10-14
US	37831369	R1M6RDZHKGFVB2	0898707811	834769686	Those Terrible Middle Ages: Debunking the Myths	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Tonic For Uninformed Pronouncements	Regine Pernoud's Those Terrible Middle Ages! is a wonderful book.  Throughout one's life you always hear the usual myths about the period of history known as \\"The Middle Ages.\\"  Pernoud shows that the Middle Ages were a time, for the most part, of peace and learning.  She brilliantly shows that the Middle Ages were a time of wonder and acomplishment and juxtaposes that against the cynicism and skepticism brought on by the so-called \\"Age of Enlightment.\\"  This book should be in every history lover's library.  Keep it handy when someone, who usually has not actually read a history book, spews forth on the following subjects, women in the \\"dark ages,\\"  the Crusades, the Spanish Inquisition, witches and cats and the usual nonsense one hears from the unread and uninformed nowadays.	2004-10-14
US	37831369	R3NNMUMLQJZSZL	0898709806	528859040	Turmoil & Truth: The Historical Roots of the Modern Crisis in the Catholic Church	Books	5	22	26	N	N	This book confirms one's suspicions	In Turmoil &amp; Truth Philip Trower gives a nice succinct description of what has shaped Roman Catholicism in the early 21st century.  Trower vividly describes how some Catholic thinking is routed in Kantian philosophy and that the chaos we see today started long before Vatican II.  The names of the usual suspects appear throughout the book Tyrrell, deChardin, Kung, etc.  I appreciated how the author pointed out that so-called &quot;progressive&quot; Catholic thinking developed along the same lines as that of its older Protestant brother &quot;higher criticism.&quot;  It just tagged along, like an unwanted younger sibling.  In other words, Liberal Catholicism is just a new wedding band playing the same old tunes.  If you want a book that describes the history of the confused state of current Catholic practice, this is the one.  But, it also holds out hope because it shows that the future of the Church is a bright one, as the &quot;progressives&quot; have not abandoned their 19th century roots.  It is those faithful who, building upon Vatican II, that are the Church not of the world, or even against it, but in the world.	2004-04-06
US	37831369	R1WPR44FXD11W7	0521823714	393489456	The Holy Reich: Nazi Conceptions of Christianity, 1919-1945	Books	5	25	40	N	Y	A Writer Who Presents The Facts	In Nazi Conceptions of Christianity, 1919-1945\\" the author, Richard Steigmann-Gall, shows that the Nazi face of Christianity grew out of 19th Century Protestant liberalism's efforts to accomodate the growing modernism and secularism of Western Europe. But, more importantly it clearly shows that time and again it was the Catholic Church, whether it was the Vatican or on the Diocesan level, that consistantly stood in opposition to Naziism's anti-life programs like the T4 program (the purposeful killing of the mentally ill) and the eradication of Jews, Gypsies, and others. The same cannot be said for most of the Protestant churches in Germany. This is not to say that there were no Catholics involved in even the darkest deeds of National Socialism, but Richard Steigmann-Gall shows that many of the Catholics who embraced Naziism either abandoned their Catholic faith, became quasi-pagans, or converted to Protestantism.    Finally, a fair treatment of this dark period of history and the relationship of the Nazi regime and Christianity.  We get to see how form Naziism's inception to its demise that some of the Christian churches and the regime went from embracing each other to almost outright hatred.  Many surprises in this book that will shatter your preconceived notions about Christianity, Paganism, and Atheism in Nazi Germany.  This is a must read for all Roman Catholics who need a good academic response to the calumny of writers like John Cornwell, James Carroll, or Garry Wills. This book should be in every Roman Catholic apologists library.	2004-02-24
US	37831369	R25V4SY0HOF613	0802776760	778654920	The Shaman's Coat: A Native History of Siberia	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	SURVIVING ENVIRONMENT AND MAN	This is a most fascinating book.  When one hears the word Siberia, what usually comes to mind is &quot;gulags&quot; and &quot;ice.&quot;  But, author, Anna Reid, in The Shaman's coat reveals the real face of Siberia, its surviving native peoples.  Anna Reid's description of this vast and thinnly populated region had me unable to put this book down.  It is a great place to start if you want to go beyond the usual stereotypes about Siberia. But, this book is more than a historical and anthropoligical study, it is a study on how the worst of a dominating culture can aggresively and even passively destroy a competing or primative culture.  Russian domination of Siberia was hard enough on Siberia's native peoples, but once Russiafication was driven by marxist ideology it was deadly.  It basically left stone age and ancient peoples empty.  Peace for these people, here in the 21st century, is usually found in a full vodka bottle.  My only negative about the book is that the author, Anna Reid, feels the answer lies in Russia and the native population of Siberia adopting PC western attitudes.  My only question here would be, why trade one form of social dysfunction for another?  Maybe, this is just a British trait, a kind of motherly post-colonialism.   The author hails from the UK.  But, I suspect materialistic feminism would not serve the Buryat, Tuvans, Chukchis or any of the other Siberian natives any better than marxism.  And to be fair, the author's suggestion is only found in the afterword of the book.  Overall this is a great read.	2004-01-24
US	37831369	R22LV19DAVHJ16	0824521269	178102928	An American Conversion: One Man's Discovery of Beauty and Truth in Times of Crisis	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Finding Catholicism in Philosophy and Art	As a &quot;cradle&quot; Catholic I have read and heard many conversion stories.  While many have come to the Church through intellectual journey, aka it makes sense, others have conveyed to the listener that it just felt right, or I knew I was home.  Deal Hudson's entering into the fullness of the Faith, while not unique, joins the few souls who have come to Catholicism because it unites thought and beauty with God's creation.  Hudson understands that if you deny the aesthetic sense, you really do not have a Church.  The approximate 180 pages were a wonderful read, like chatting to a friend.  I only have one negative about the book. Did we really need to know what happened between the writer Julian Green and his mother?  As the popular jargon goes, &quot;don't go there.&quot;  Only because this is such a wonderful book it should be read by teens, college students, and adults.  The story of Deal Hudson's coming to Catholicism is a wonderful and captivating story.	2004-01-13
US	37831369	RE2TQU14RVA4V	0761516042	83762458	Triumph: The Power and the Glory of the Catholic Church	Books	3	10	37	N	Y	Good History Badly Written	I was really looking forward to reading this book, based on its title.  But, upon receipt, on the back cover I saw one of the \\"personalities\\" called upon to recommend this volume and the red flags went up.  Sean Hannity is not a source I would look to when recommemnding anything Catholic.  That said, I soldiered on anyway.  First, Mr. Crocker should tame his enthusiasm for being Catholic, as it affects his objectivity.  Second, the author is too apologetic in instances when the Church was clearly in the wrong.  It is not that he doesn't say that the Church was wrong, it is just that he feels that events justified how the Church acted.  Well, to quote the warn out cliche', \\"The road to hell is paved with good intentions.\\"  Also, he completely ignores or glosses over events that were important, even though the Church does look bad, most notably the Mortara incident of the 19th century.  His lack of objectivity meant that I am very reluctant to pass this work along to my non-Catholic friends.  He does do an adaquate job on the Church and how it reacted to Naziism and Communism.  The highlight of the book was his narative about the Mexican revolution of the early 2oth century, which is too often ignored in the annals of Catholic historical writing.  Finally, you cannot give half star ratings.  If I could,  H.W. Crocker III would have gotten 2 1/2 stars for Triumph.  Enthusiasm is no substitute for objectivity.	2004-01-06
US	37831369	R26G15RB67J9LJ	0971489483	47530404	Twelve Types: A Collection of Mini-Biographies	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A HEAVY READ, BUT NECESSARY	This is one of Chesterton's smallest books, but boy is it packed with knowledge.  If you are considering a career in literary criticism you would do well to purchase this book.  At times, because Chesterton can be so deep, it is hard to follow.  But there are good footnotes in the back of the book.  Read it slowly, and savor every moment.	2003-12-18
US	37831369	RHZ1MKADA4QN2	0759613206	114079336	There We Stood, Here We Stand : Eleven Lutherans Rediscover Their Catholic Roots	Books	4	5	14	N	N	What they saw....	This book is one of many that are now available from former Protestants who have embraced Roman Catholicism.  I especially enjoyed the stories of those woman pastors who had to be very brave to leave their vocation behind to embrace Roman Catholicism.  I wonder, though, if liturgical reform and better cathechesis does not make itself known with Roman Catholicism if we might not see a similar book written by ex-Catholics?	2003-12-15
US	37831369	R3SLOHC2QRSLN6	0140266534	345400706	The Northern Crusades: Second Edition	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Good Survery of little know part of European History	While I remember being taught about the Teutonic Knights and Hanseatic League, I really knew very little about Baltic history.  Eric Christiansen has done a great job in filling in the blank spaces of medieval history.  My only complaint is that, at times, the author was a little too academic, but the wealth of information contained in this THE NORTHERN CRUSADES more than makes up for any minor complaints this reviewer might have.  Finally, this history lays out the foundation for understanding the 20th century conflicts between East and West.	2003-11-20
US	37831369	R2RZ2DWBJ4NV8T	0874516471	943243105	After the Fire: The Destruction of the Lancaster County Amish	Books	5	9	10	N	N	BEING BULLDOZED BY THE AMERICAN DREAM	I first visited Lancaster County, PA about 25 years ago.  Initially I was intrigued by the life of the Amish and amused by the hokiness of the local tourist business.  As time went on, I visited less and less often.  Now when I occasionally visit, I just get sad.  The area is being overdeveloped with stores and tract housing.  The local Amish who have not left the area, seem to have lost their soul.  They live a kind of double life.  Functioning in two worlds.  The Amish half of their identity seems to have surrendered to the onslaught of commercial tourist success.  Randy-Michael Testa has captured the essence of the destruction of the Amish way of life in Lancaster County, PA.  In fact, due to his studies at Harvard, for a bit, he lived it.  This book is must reading for anyone who wants to know how the Amish are coping or not coping at the end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st.  I highly recommend it for anyone interested in the Amish and how housing and commercial over-development destroy the lives of rural people, Amish and non-Amish, who stand in its way.	2003-10-13
US	37831369	R3TPMOQFLYQPLC	0762727144	208680171	Gullible's Travels: The Adventures of a Bad Taste Tourist	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Really 4 1/2 Stars...If not 4 the dysfunctional family stuff	As a fellow who does not live too far from Lucy the Margate Elephant (not her original home, Hussy!) I gotta say, this is one of the funniest books I've ever read.  If you like Bryson's stuff, you like Cash Peter's tome.  He woulda got 5 stars if it wasn't for all the stuff about how he and his Pa never hug, which usually shows up in half the biographies, and coming of age novels ever written.  Some dads don't.	2003-10-06
US	37831369	R15XHB2ZJN4B4Y	B0000CAR62	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Nothing New Here, More of a Morganthau Biography	While this book is interesting because you get an inside look at the internicene goings on in Roosevelts administration, there was nothing new really revealed to this reader on US plans for a post-war Germany.  To me it was more of a biography of Roosevelt's Treasury Secretary, Morganthau.	2003-10-06
US	37831369	R1AE2YVD4WL4NB	0802713505	923264418	The Perfect Heresy: The Revolutionary Life and Death of the Medieval Cathars	Books	3	5	6	N	N	OK -- BUT SOMEWHAT LACKING	I find myself torn about this book.  The author does a good job covering the geography and military aspects of the Albigensian Crusade, but is lacking in background of the history of the heresy of Catharism.  He all too often leads the reader to believe that it is just a more ascetic form of Christianity, when in different parts of the book he points out that it is the ancient heresy of Dualism.  A little more effort on the author's part in giving us the history and variations of this ancient heresy would have been appreciated. To his credit he does mention it came to the west of Europe from Eastern Europe.  Mr. O'Shea does a good job in giving the reader the biographical information on the major characters involved in this episode of medieval history.  Though, like many of today's writers he all too easily falls into the the trap of the Church of Rome \\"bad\\" anyone in opposition \\"good.\\"  In conclusion, it is a good read.  If you know nothing about the Albigensian Crusade this book will get you up to snuff.	2003-09-10
