US	37889448	RTLY42L7R7RXT	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	2	13	20	N	N	A bland lull before the coming storm.	After the ponderous and bitter \\"Harry Potter and the Order of The Phoenix,\\" Harry Potter returns for his penultimate year at Hogwarts.  His main focus becomes the various romantic entanglements of he and his friends.  This plot thread sadly turns Hermione from an insightful young woman into a giggling dolt.  However, it does reveal surprising complexity in Ginny Weasley.  Harry also deals with the mysterious textbook originally owned by a \\"Half-Blood Prince.\\"  The previous owner is revealed in passing, but this tiny mystery has little consequence for the plot.      \\"Half-Blood Prince\\" focuses on Harry's relationship with Dumbledore.  The memories Dumbledore shows Harry illuminate a few details about Voldemort's past, but they do little to advance the present story.  The joint mission Harry and Dumbledore undertake serves as the climax of the book, but their goal is drained of all its justification by a pointless plot twist.      This books feels distant from many of the elements that made the previous ones so enjoyable and so darkly captivating.  Many of the fun older students have left Hogwarts, including the Weasley twins.  The narrative spends very little time in class with the memorable teachers, such as McGonagal or Snape.  Rowling also seems to have abandoned the tiny oddball details that made the early books so rich.  Harry repeatedly takes \\"a short cut\\" back to the dormitory, but Rowling provides no details.  He and his friends never discover any exciting new area of the castle or the nearby town.    And Voldemort never appears.  After his chilling rebirth in \\"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,\\" Rowling drained much of the tension by giving Voldemort a silly goal in \\"Order of the Phoenix.\\"  \\"Half-Blood Prince\\" reduces the apprehension even more.  The entire wizarding world is supposed to be in deathly fear of Voldemort, and a few of his minions do storm on-stage at the end, but the arch-enemy himself is nowhere to be found.    \\"Half-Blood Prince\\" feels like a bland lull before the coming storm.  Hopefully Rowling will fill the seventh and final book with great conflict and character growth.  If not, \\"Goblet of Fire\\" will remain the highpoint of the entire series.	2005-09-19
US	37889448	R371WGEF5IWHM1	1596872519	548287109	The Dragon Masters	Books	3	6	10	N	N	All the strengths of classic SF, and many of the weaknesses.	Science fiction changed forever when the Viking probe landed on Mars in 1976 and sent back color pictures.  No longer could SF writers set their stories among the \\"canals\\" of Mars, or have colonists romping across the planet without spacesuits.  Much previous SF had also contained elements of fantasy, including epic family sagas or unrealistically fantastic depictions of other planets.  At the same time, fantasy began to emerge as a separate genre, led by the sword and sorcery epics of Terry Brooks and Stephen R. Donaldson.<br /><br />The Viking probe's real science and the rise of fantasy drove SF into the new level of scientific depth that permeates the genre today.  However, old-school SF, like Jack Vance, still offers the mix of science and the fantastic that dominated science fiction before the mid 1970s.  _The Dragon Masters_ features genetically engineered dragons and the remnants of the human race fighting for survival on a barren planet.  This 1962 Hugo Award-winning SF classic has been reissued in a \\"Definitive Edition\\" single volume, along with _The Last Castle_, a novella that was the other half of the 1966 Ace Double of _The Dragon Masters_.<br /><br />This novel has all the hallmarks of classic SF:  a fascinating world with a strange semi-human race, intricate backstory detailing the colonization, a technologically superior alien antagonist, human application of science in the breeding of battle dragons, and a climax that forces the human characters to ponder their role in the universe.  Vance has clearly worked out the intricate details of the colonists, the semi-human sacerdotes, and the countless types of bred dragons.  These elements seem scattered as the plot moves through the immediate conflict between two settlements of colonists, but they all converge in the climactic final battle.<br /><br />_The Dragon Masters_ also has many of the shortcomings of classic SF.  The characterization is paper-thin.  Huge sections, including all of Chapter 2, are devoted to political backstory.  The various battles, which take up three-quarters of the novel, are depicted from a distant, unit-level perspective.  The narrative lists how many dragons of each different type went where, but it never shows the combat up-front through the eyes of a character.<br /><br />Over forty years after it was written, _The Dragon Masters_ stands as a well-developed and solidly written example of the classic SF style that mixed elements of science and fantasy.  It isn't as scientifically rigorous as modern SF, and it isn't as detailed as modern fantasy, but its middle ground between those extremes offers an accessible read for modern fans of either genre.r 2, are devoted to political backstory.  The various battles, which take up three-quarters of the novel, are depicted from a distant, unit-level perspective.  The narrative lists how many dragons of each different type went where, but it never shows the combat up-front through the eyes of a character.  <br /> <br />Over forty years after it was written, _The Dragon Masters_ stands as a well-developed and solidly written example of the classic SF style that mixed elements of science and fantasy.  It isn't as scientifically rigorous as modern SF, and it isn't as detailed as modern fantasy, but its middle ground between those extremes offers an accessible read for modern fans of either genre.	2005-09-19
US	37889448	R2CMVSST0FMB2U	0441385540	367324940	Jhereg	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Hard-boiled, dry adventure fantasy.	_Jhereg_ introduces Steven Brust's hard-boiled assassin Vlad Taltos.  This short self-standing novel opens with two scenes from Vlad's childhood, then jumps to his adult occupation as an assassin.  Brust immediately sets up the racial conflict in Dragaeran society by showing the constant scorn directed at Vlad, a human, from the dominant Dragaeran race, seven-foot tall humanoids who can live for a thousand years.  The structure of Dragaeran society, organized into seventeen ethnic houses named after indigenous fantasy animals, is also detailed through Vlad's involvement in a power struggle between two houses. <br /> <br />Vlad's snappy inner monologue dominates the narrative.  The first-person narrative recalls the taut style of classic detective fiction authors like Raymond Chandler and Robert Parker.  This style is effective at showing Vlad's thought process as he works through the schemes of his targets and his employers.  However, it never fully captures the tactile sensations of living in Dragaera.   <br /> <br />Vlad is clever and resourceful, especially as he confronts various Dragaerans in the course of his investigation.  The other peripheral characters are less vividly drawn.  Vlad's wife Cawti is poignantly depicted, but many of the other Dragaeran characters remain vague, including the similarly named Aleira and Keira.   <br /> <br />Vlad's status as an outsider in Dragaeran culture would seem to offer the opportunity for deeper drama than just assassination schemes.  However, this potential conflict is not explored in _Jhereg_.  Vlad's reincarnated lineage, revealed in the middle of the book, adds an awkward and unnecessary complication, and it is also never fully addressed. <br /> <br />Despite the lack of splendor in the descriptions of the setting, _Jhereg_ creates a unique fantasy world and displays it through the viewpoint of an exciting character.  Brust's format of short, self-contained novels makes the Vlad Taltos series easily accessible, especially compared to the modern fantasy trend of overly long series novels that are not self-contained at all.	2005-09-08
US	37889448	RVY40S86O98HJ	0553585495	855181743	Swordspoint (Riverside)	Books	4	61	62	N	N	Uniquely character-centered setting and plot in a compact novel.	_Swordspoint_, Ellen Kushner's \\"melodrama of manners\\" from 1987, features vividly drawn characters in a non-standard fantasy setting.  Graceful swordplay replaces magic, dense Regency-era social customs replace feudal hierarchy, and political intrigue replaces the usual battle between good and evil.  With the refreshing lack of apocalyptically dire stakes, Kushner's complex characters take center stage.    The fantasy setting is a nameless pre-technological city, with districts of elegant estates and gritty slums.  Yet Kushner's approach makes this setting unique.  She never halts the story or disrupts the atmosphere to explain the workings of the society.  Government titles and institutions are noted only when appropriate to the characters' motivations.  This isolation from the infrastructure of the society leaves the characters' perceived world -- the areas of the society that they inhabit -- as the dominant face of the setting.      Kushner wrings intense conflict from her constrained setting by cutting to the heart of her characters' motivations.  Her portrayal of a Regency-style social scene feels perfect, in both the delicate high society and the gritty low.  After a quick first chapter, the novel crawls through slow social scenes with secondary characters whose importance hasn't yet been shown.  As such, their lengthy gossip doesn't have any context or meaning at this early stage.  Once Richard begins receiving offers for duels, the plot picks up speed.  The intrigue gradually ensnares all the previously introduced characters and rushes toward the conclusion.  The ending features a clever twist, and all the characters' lives are irrevocably changed.    _Swordspoint_ is a delightfully compact novel, especially by modern fantasy standards.  The plot resolution in a single volume is a refreshing change from the recent trend of fantasy duologies, many of which are actually a large manuscript split into two books for publication, and consequently have no resolution at the end of the first book.      Kushner's prose has a few awkward tics that distract from her subtle dialog and lush descriptions.  Her dialog tags often carry unnecessary adverbs.  She also uses 'Richard' and 'St Vier' interchangeably to refer to the main character, sometimes in the same sentence.  However, in dialog she more appropriately picks whichever one of these names represents his relationship to the person speaking -- Alec always calls him Richard, the jailer always calls him St Vier.  In addition, the point of view often floats from character to character in the same scene, leaving the reader at a distance, struggling to follow the complex social agenda of each character.    _Swordspoint_ stands as a classic of character-driven fantasy, particularly compared to the bland rehashes of epic fantasy that were also being written in the late 80s.  Kushner's novel reads like a forerunner of the recent social intrigue fantasy from authors like Jacqueline Carey, and she deserves credit for this landmark work that pioneered that subgenre.	2005-08-16
US	37889448	R3DVHV1ZT500ZG	0061059900	874356818	Sailing to Sarantium (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Vivid main character lost in digressions and incomplete ending.	With novels like _Tigana_ and _The Lions of Al-Rassan_, Guy Gavriel Kay virtually invented the sub-genre of 'fake historical' fantasy.  Kay's settings in these novels are immaculately derived from the actual culture of specific regions of Europe.  However, he adds his own original twists to produce cultures that are not alternate history or historical fantasy.  In _Sailing to Sarantium_, he extends this approach to create his own 'fake historical' analog of the Eastern Roman, or Byzantine, Empire. <br /> <br />The novel ostensibly focuses on the provincial mosaicist Crispin, who is summoned to the Emperor's court in Sarantium.  There he encounters various elements of intrigue surrounding his commission to build a mosaic in a grand new temple.  Kay poignantly describes the subtle shades of light and glass that comprise Crispin's mosaic-laying art, as well as his muted anguish over the deaths of his wife and daughters from a plague.  In Sarantium, Crispin faces arrogant nobles and devious schemers struggling for power.  He holds his own in deliciously sly conversations with several nobles, including the Empress herself.  Yet once the political intrigue heats up, threatening Crispin's life, the novel ends abruptly with no resolution. <br /> <br />Crispin is by far the most compelling character in the novel, but Kay bogs down Crispin's story with digressions.  The fifty-page prologue, set decades before the events of the novel, is completely unnecessary.  Two characters met on Crispin's journey to Sarantium, are virtually forgotten once he arrives there, displaced by a tangential plot concerning factions of chariot racers.  Kay tells the major event in the last quarter of the book from several different characters' perspectives, but he slips further backward in time as he moves to each new one.  This jumbled chronology slights Crispin's final and most important account.  Kay's narrative voice often hovers above the secondary characters in languid prose, occasionally even using present tense.  This hazy tone makes these characters feel far more distant from the reader than Crispin. <br /> <br />Kay's 'fake historical' Byzantium is fully developed, from the rural pagan gods to the uncertain future of the provincial queen to the various noble factions constantly at odds for power within the empire.  The lengthy sections on chariot racing feel authentic, although that entire plotline is tangential to the story. <br /> <br />With the lazy pace and the sudden ending, _Sailing to Sarantium_ doesn't feel like a whole, complete novel.  Rather, it feels like a long introduction to the sequel _Lord of Emperors_, as though both books were originally one large manuscript that was chopped in half.  Crispin's story could have been told in one long book with far fewer digressions, and it would have been all the more powerful for it.  Yet Kay's emotive characterization still places him well ahead of most current fantasy authors.	2005-08-10
US	37889448	R12ZBP7KX7UKA7	0756401623	853363157	Inheritance: Keys Of Power #1	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Average fantasy -- not in the cliches, but in the writing.	Australian SF writer Simon Brown tries his hand at high fantasy with \\"Inheritance,\\" the first book in his Keys of Power trilogy.  \\"Inheritance\\" features all the standard high fantasy tropes:  the adolescent prince Lynan, an outsider because his father was a commoner; his spiteful sister Areava, who inherits the throne; the tomboy Jenrosa, a restless wizardry student; the quasi-medieval kingdom of Grenda Lear, complete with taverns, a haunted forest, and a school of wizardry; and a magic artifact, the Keys of Power, that enable the monarch to rule with wisdom and compassion.    The opening of Chapter One, set in a stock fantasy tavern, shows in the first sentence that \\"Inheritance\\" won't be blazing any new ground.  And there's nothing wrong with that.  Clichs exist because they work, and many exciting, gripping fantasy tales have been written using such familiar elements.  The problem with Inheritance isn't so much the clichs as it is Brown's weak execution of the story around them.  Lynan's moping around the castle is inconsistent with his earlier sneaking into the tavern to learn about his father.  The major event that sets the plot in motion doesn't happen until a quarter of the way into the book.  Jenrosa appears out of nowhere, just in time to flee with the heroes.  The plot of political scheming vanishes in the last third of the book, replaced by a trite sequence of pursuit-and-escape from nasty mercenaries with lots of scars.  The vividness of the setting and the characters finally picks up in the river barge and caravan scenes, particularly once Lynan encounters Gudon the pilot.  Then Brown fumbles the momentum with an abrupt ending that resolves none of the hanging plot threads, and feels like gratuitous setup for the next book in the series.    The awkward prose doesn't help either.  \\"The wide double doors to the throne room opened wide,\\" Brown writes in Chapter Six.  The character and place names follow no apparent pattern, like they would in a true culture, and they include such clunkers as \\"Orkid Gravespear.\\"  The point-of-view bounces from character to character in the same scene, in some places changing with every paragraph.  Once the pursuit plot gets moving in the last quarter of the book, Brown carries the action capably, except when he interrupts Lynan's plotline to show Prince Olio back home setting up orphanages.    Despite this clumsy execution and all the clichd elements, \\"Inheritance\\" still offers an average fantasy read.  But even for the reader who doesn't mind awkward prose, there are so many more vivid and more exciting high fantasy novels out there that \\"Inheritance\\" ends up toward the bottom of the list.	2005-08-03
US	37889448	R1USN4VTSLLYH7	0886773849	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair: Book One of Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn (Osten Ard)	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Vivid eye can't overcome erratic pacing, awkward prose.	This 1988 classic bridges the 80s epic fantasy style of boy heroes and glorious quests, like Raymond E. Feist, and the vast gritty epic fantasy of the 90s, like George R. R. Martin.  Although Tad Williams expands the detail of his setting and the scope of his story beyond that of most 80s fantasy, \\"The Dragonbone Chair\\" still features many clichs from that period.  These, combined with the erratic pace and uneven prose, make this novel a mixed read. <br /> <br />The first half of \\"The Dragonbone Chair\\" moves at a numbingly slow pace.  The plot doesn't begin until King John's death, around page 200 of the paperback.  Many of the previous sections do build Simon's characterization, but that could have been achieved more succinctly after the plot was moving.  Some other scenes, such as those between Towser and the king, are beautifully poignant but completely unnecessary.  After the initial climax in Doctor Morgenes's tower room, Williams deluges the reader with pages of Simon's vague wandering through the catacombs.  Then after a second climax on the Thisterborg hill, Williams tells Simon's rural journey in excruciating detail.  The plot picks up at the end of Part Two, between gratuitous chapters of peripheral characters' political maneuverings.  Then, after a brand new character blurts out the whole fantasy backstory, the plot races through two parallel storylines and ends with a cliffhanger. <br /> <br />The orphaned kitchen boy Simon reads like a sillier and less compelling version of Raymond E. Feist's Pug.  He bumbles through strenuous events but never develops as a character.  The syntax of Binbek's dialog perfectly captures a person speaking in a non-native language, but his character rarely moves beyond the mysterious fantasy mentor archetype into a true friend.  The various liegemen are almost interchangeable, behind their stiff Saxon-esque names.   <br /> <br />Williams's prose reads awkwardly, particularly by modern standards.  His omniscient point-of-view bounces between different characters in the same scenes.  He strings long chains of phrases together into ponderous sentences, often including interjected digressions.  He routinely opens sentences with participial phrases, making the reader wait to find out what character is doing that action (\\"Wandering back to the servant's quarters, Simon wondered...\\").  He uses laughable dialog attributions (\\"'Not today, Uncle,' Josua smirked.\\").  This amateurish prose seems to crop up in waves, as though from inconsistent copyediting. <br /> <br />The only saving grace in Williams's dense narrative is his beautiful eye for description.  The textures of the Hayholt, the toil of rural life, the gloom of the Aldheorte forest, the crumbling splendor of the Sithi city, and the haunting physical decline of King Elias are all described with incredible vividness.  However, the sheer number of descriptions bogs down the pace.  This novel could have been twice as powerful if it had been trimmed by half. <br /> <br />\\"The Dragonbone Chair\\" can't compare to the rich characterization and tight prose in modern fantasy like Martin or Robin Hobb, but it does show the origin of the 90s fantasy trend toward vast fantasy epics told in laboriously long novels.	2005-05-07
US	37889448	R3VRR70S4QQPG8	0441009034	768716294	Hawkwood's Voyage (Monarchies of God, Book 1)	Books	2	12	14	N	N	Too much Steven Erikson, not enough Patrick O'Brian	British novelist Paul Kearney mixes nautical adventure with epic war and religious politics in \\"Hawkwood's Voyage,\\" the first book of his five-volume series \\"The Monarchies of God.\\"  Kearney's fantasy world is based on 15th century Europe and includes early muskets and cannons, monarchies clashing with a centralized church, and heathens invading from the east.  Contrary to the title and the irrelevant prologue, the major conflict is not Hawkwood's voyage but the invasion of the Merduks.  This nation of dark-skinned horsemen, led by a Sultan and worshipping a god with a name that begins with an A, reads like a stereotypical portrait of Muslim infidels.<br /><br />Hawkwood's voyage into uncharted western oceans in search of an undiscovered continent is the most vividly described and interesting plot thread in the novel.  Kearney has clearly researched nautical procedures and terminology, and these chapters combine the best of adventure fantasy like Raymond E. Feist and nautical fiction like Patrick O'Brian.  The other main plotline, the defense of Ormann Dyke against Merduk hordes, becomes interesting only when the soldier Corfe arrives in that city.  The remaining plot threads, especially the political wrangling between the kings and the religious officials, feel unimportant by comparison.  The ending concludes only one minor plot and leaves the rest completely unresolved, presumably for the four sequels.<br /><br />Kearney's longwinded prose prioritizes the physical descriptions first, the history of his world second, and the characters last.  The descriptions are vivid, but often the prose makes them feel as lifeless as encyclopedia entries.  This line from Chapter Two opens a long passage describing a city:  \\"Two things struck the seaward observer about Abrusio:  the forest and the mountain.\\"  This description would have far more meaning if \\"the seaward observer\\" were an actual character rather than a hypothetical narrative personage, about whom the reader knows nothing.  Many other chapters open with introductory scenes that are entirely physical and historical description before any character walks onstage.  The absence of characters in these scenes leaves the reader with little reason to care about the description or history.<br /><br />Kearney's characters are rugged adventure types with little weakness or depth.  Hawkwood's awkwardness in dealing with his wife predictably vanishes the instant he sets sail.  Corfe's suffering on the retreat from Aekir somehow molds him into an insightful commander.  The nobleman Murad has some interesting motivations, but he remains largely unsympathetic because he is placed in opposition to Hawkwood.  The rare female characters are all wives, prostitutes, and concubines.  Nearly all the minor characters, including King Abelyn, the monk Albrec, the Sultan, and Corfe's captured wife, feel like gratuitous setup for later volumes in the saga.  The sloppy omniscient point-of-view leaves the characters feeling distant from the reader, as it drifts out of their heads in scenes with other characters and in scenes where characters are alone.  Kearney attempts the wide, multi-character scale of epic fantasy like his one-time collaborator Steven Erikson, but in \\"Hawkwood's Voyage\\" he doesn't pull it off.<br /><br />Kearney's detailed narrative and meticulous backstory create a rich world in \\"Hawkwood's Voyage,\\" but they leave his characters flat as they plod through uninteresting subplots.  Only Hawkwood's actual voyage remains captivating throughout the novel.	2005-03-16
US	37889448	R26B529ZZ5BXAR	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Gritty, unique early 80s fantasy.	The success of realistic fantasy like George R. R. Martin and Jacqueline Carey has left the idealized Tolkein clones of the early 80s seeming extremely dated.  Yet from that same period, Glen Cook's \\"The Black Company\\" stands out as an early example of this style.    \\"The Black Company\\" follows a mercenary unit on campaign.  Cook writes in a brusque first-person narrative from the point-of-view of the company physician, Croaker.  Other members of the company, identified by first names or nicknames, are only introduced when they have a role in the story.  Cook's fantasy world is similarly used only as a backdrop -- cities are mentioned, and briefly described when Croaker rides through them, but the culture is never detailed.  Only the final battle is detailed -- others are summarized in one or two lines.  The legend behind the Lady and the Taken is only outlined, from the scant information that Croaker and the Black Company know.      This innovative approach, for early 80s fantasy, produces a novel that is unique yet flawed.  The lack of cultural development leaves the novel feeling rushed.  The ends resolves one plot arc without resolving most of the overall conflict.  \\"The Black Company\\" feels more like a soldier's diary than a traditional fantasy novel.  The world and experiences that shape Croaker and the Company are fantasy, but their moral struggle to stay honorable while surrounded by evil is universal.      After reading \\"The Black Company,\\" it's obvious where Steven Erikson got many of the ideas in \\"Gardens of the Moon.\\"  The gritty military company, the consistent but unexplained magic system, the novel starting at the end of one campaign and moving into the next one, and the lack of stark \\"good\\" and \\"evil\\" are all ideas right out of \\"The Black Company.\\"  Erikson expands them to fit his hyper-epic scale, but in many ways they read better in Cook's simpler original form.      It's a testament to the realism of Cook's vision that \\"The Black Company\\" still holds up twenty years after it was first published.  This novel offers a unique early 80s fantasy read that perfectly fits the current trend of realistic fantasy.	2004-11-16
US	37889448	R1848OAG12AI2H	1585675598	380195986	The Darkness That Comes Before (The Prince of Nothing, Book 1)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	"'He is less.  And he's more.'"	This line of dialog from Chapter Twelve perfectly sums up R. Scott Bakker's debut novel, \\"The Darkness That Comes Before.\\"    Bakker's knowledge of philosophy and ancient languages gives his epic fantasy a unique flavor.  His world exudes a harsh authenticity, imbued with feudal politics and religious fervor.  Competing factions of sorcerers debate philosophical quandaries.  Character and place names stumble with accent marks like diaereses and circumflexes.      The novel begins with the emergence of the eerily manipulative Kellhus.  Then it shifts to the sorcerer Achamian and bogs down with interior monologues.  The plot finally awakens when Kellhus returns, after a 300 page absence, and the main characters converge on the Holy War.  The political machinations reach a crescendo and an ancient evil resurfaces.  Bakker seems caught between depicting a non-human evil, like most fantasy, or focusing on the evil that humans can visit upon each other, like George R. R. Martin.  He ends up doing both.  The non-human evil is frighteningly portrayed, but it makes so few appearances that the human conflicts steal most of the attention.    \\"Darkness\\" mixes three major struggles -- Kellhus searching for his father, Achamian and the Mandate hunting for the ancient evil, and the political machinations surrounding the Holy War.  Any two of these could have anchored the plot, but the inclusion of all three leaves the novel jumbled.  The narrative spends most of its time inside the characters' heads, winding through philosophical discourses.  Once the major conflicts have been established, the repeated discourses feel like ponderous doubletalk.  In the descriptive passages, Bakker's prose drips with lyricism.  At many moments of tension, it crumbles into awkward sentence fragments.  The philosophical tone, the poetic language, and the political conflicts combine to give the novel an erudite feel that borders on snobbish.    Bakker aims high with \\"Darkness,\\" a novel of complex language, intrigue, and plot.  However, he lets the complexities overwhelm the plot and characters.  The best popular fiction contains deep levels, but also provides an easy entry point for readers who don't want to delve into the complexities.  Bakker plunges straight into deep waters, which will leave most readers sputtering on the surface.	2004-10-19
US	37889448	RPFITQXYJR6XZ	0765310015	599137545	Gardens of the Moon (The Malazan Book of the Fallen, Book 1)	Books	3	26	32	N	N	So epic the characters aren't realistic.	Erikson avoids the slow introductory phase in most fantasy by omitting it completely.  \\"Gardens of the Moon\\" begins in the middle of the war, with little hint of why the war started.  Mages hurl bolts of energy with no explanation of the magic system save the power sources called \\"Warrens,\\" dimensional rifts that cleverly take the characteristics of each type of power.  The pace thankfully quickens once the action moves to Darujhistan, then slows with divine meddling outside the city.  The endgame occurs in the deliciously subtle setting of a masquerade party, but the conclusion resolves only one plot thread.    \\"Gardens\\" moves through several dozen point-of-view characters, but this scope leaves some major ones ignored.  Whiskeyjack is absent for a hundred pages after the first sections.  After being featured in the first chapters, Paran is absent for two hundred pages in the middle.  With demigods scheming and gods walking in a mortal's dreams, the human characters feel insignificant.  Their actions don't hold much weight when demigods wield soul-stealing swords and dead human characters are brought back to life by sorcery or divine will.      Most of these myriad characters are vividly drawn, especially the jester Kruppe.  Only a few have interesting motivations, such Whiskeyjack's angst about the war and Rake's concern for his people.  Except for Paran's conclusion and a thief who falls in love, no character develops through the novel.  They scheme and react, they fight, they die and come back from the dead, but they never grow.    The Malazan saga invites comparison with the current master of epic fantasy, George R. R. Martin, especially since Erikson's publisher Tor compares them in their own press release.  Although equally epic and detailed as Martin's \\"Song of Ice and Fire,\\" Gardens falls far short of Martin's work in believability and characterization.  Martin's characters are all realistically drawn; they grow and change.  In the absence of meddling gods,their actions have consequences and their deaths are final.  Erikson's characters are flat and the humans' actions ring hollow.      Despite this, \\"Gardens of the Moon\\" still outpaces almost all other current fantasy.	2004-09-08
US	37889448	R28N4SNPQJRYE4	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Lush, creative, dense, a sloppy conclusion.	\\"Kushiel's Dart\\" details court politics and barbarian customs before rambling through an unrealistic conclusion.    The orphaned heroine Phedre is raised as an indentured courtesan.  Carey's social structure for this organized prostitution feels completely natural.  Early chapters drag with exposition, but they reveal the depth in Terre D'Ange, Carey's alternate-history Renaissance France.  The backstory also establishes Angeline theology, a strong element throughout the novel.    Phedre glides through the opulent society as a courtesan and spy.  This section of the novel flourishes in Phedre's relationships.  She learns from Delaunay and Cecile, she shares with Alcuin, and her service begins.  Carey shows high society clothing and behavior in vivid detail.  A jarring shift yanks Phedre into the second section, an exile among barbarian tribes.  She uses her courtesan skills to survive and to uncover a scheme for the throne.      The third section of the novel turns Phedre into a royal agent.  Here, \\"Kushiel's Dart\\" stumbles.  Phedre seducing barbarian chieftains and a provincial lord feels completely appropriate.  Phedre convincing two foreign monarchs to launch an invasion, devising the plan that stops a rebel army, and infiltrating siege lines feels ridiculous.  Carey's realism and detail also falter.  The sea god feels inconsistent in such a realistic fantasy novel.  Sailors fight land combat for no apparent reason other than to name a military unit \\"Phedre's Boys.\\"  The Angeline name for Greek fire is just translated French.      Carey's narrative is dense.  Antiquated words and verbose phrasing set the Renaissance mood, but they also impede the flow.  Some paragraphs contain only one huge sentence of independent clauses linked by semicolons.  At approximately 300,000 words, the novel runs extremely long.      Despite these flaws, \\"Kushiel's Dart\\" is the most rich and original fantasy since George R. R. Martin.  Carey's alternate-history Renaissance France and her realistic characters are a welcome departure from stock medieval settings and epic quests.	2004-08-07
US	37889448	R1L74RKPPDU0N0	0812541626	894162627	The Sum of All Men (The Runelords, Book One:)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	A clever concept ruined by sloppy narrative and plot.	&quot;The Runelords&quot; features a clever concept in a stock fantasy tale, but Farland's slapdash writing ruins both.<br />The system of transferable physical endowments seems a brilliant idea, a gimmick rife with ethical dilemmas, but it also leaves gaping plot holes.  The major flaw is why good characters accept endowments at all, since the donors are left crippled, but Farland waves this away by having them only use willing donors.  The peasants' fawning eagerness to become zombies to empower their lords strains belief.  The ethical ramifications of this system could have fueled a deeper work, but Farland rushes ahead with his fantasy plot, only briefly examining ethics in Borenson's guilt.  <br />This potentially interesting concept and the trite plot of a prince discovering his divine legacy end up buried, as &quot;The Runelords&quot; is jumbled in every possible aspect.  Characters flit from one idea or place to another with no justification except rambling inner monologues.  Gaborn escapes from the castle, only to sneak back in.  The plot jumps between unrealistic military campaigning and ponderous earth prophecy.  Farland's writing stumbles with trite phrases and halting exposition dumps.  Gaborn is fleeing the Dedicates' Keep, but then Farland describes the kitchen in numbing detail.  The prose constantly blurts things rather than show the characters figuring them out -- Raj Ahten somehow immediately knows that Orden is using a serpent ring.  The only memorable skill in the narrative is the vibrant array of spices and scents that permeate the early sections of the book.<br />Unlike most fantasy authors, Farland does try to inject some moral conflict into his characters, but his weak writing can't support the attempt.  The justification for Raj Ahten's conquest reads like more ponderous backstory, and the constant inner whining of Gaborn and Iome feels like Farland fumbling for the next turn in the plot rather than plausible character growth.  This muddledwriting makes &quot;The Runelords&quot; read like a disorganized flight of fancy.  Farland adds new concepts seemingly whenever he needs to turn the plot in another direction, like the introduction of vectors just before Iome becomes one, and the serpent ring when Orden needs a weapon.  It's hard to believe that this sloppy prose is the pseudonymous work of an author who's sold dozens of novels, Dave Wolverton, but most of those were franchise tie-ins for Star Wars and The Mummy.  <br />&quot;The Runelords&quot; adds the interesting endowment concept and an admirable attempt at round characters to a stock fantasy plot, but drowns it all in sloppy writing.	2004-06-17
US	37889448	RGWRQB53BVL8I	0553575430	90994795	Stalking Darkness (Nightrunner, Vol. 2)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Character relationship peaks despite stock fantasy plot.	&quot;Stalking Darkness&quot; concludes the tale of Seregil and Alec, the dashing thief and his orphan ward, begun in &quot;Luck in the Shadows.&quot;  The early chapters see Seregil and Alec prowling through Rhininmee.  As in &quot;Luck,&quot; both characters flourish in this setting, and their relationship grows in steps appropriately hesitant for a mentor and his charge.  The first half of the novel peaks as Seregil and Alec make a key discovery, but the pace stumbles after they reach a dead end and the focus shifts to trite fantasy prophecy.  <br />The necromancers' brutal countermove revs up the pace again, but then the plot falls into stock fantasy with evil minions seeking the artifact of their god while the prophesied good characters must stop them.  The subtleties of Seregil's and Alec's characters fade in this rush, next to the stock archetypes of Nysander and Micum.  In the dash to the conclusion, Seregil and Alec wrestle with inner doubts of whether their friends are dead and whether Nysander's strategies will stop the evil scheme.  However, the reader can easily predict the outcome, and the characters' doubts read like melodramatic excuses rather than suspenseful uncertainty even though the ending does simmer with a few unexpected twists.  <br />The true conclusion is the relationship between Seregil and Alec.  Here, Flewelling's work drips with poignant originality as she confronts an awkward subject, and the final machinations feel perfectly appropriate for both characters.  <br />&quot;Stalking Darkness&quot; straddles a line between exciting but predictable adventure fantasy like Raymond E. Feist and more character-focused work like Robin Hobb's Farseer Trilogy.  The overall outcome is never in doubt, but the delicate relationship between Seregil and Alec pulls the reader through the stock fantasy elements.	2004-05-13
US	37889448	R3AKVQOZJJXHGO	0553575422	391056416	Luck in the Shadows (Nightrunner, Vol. 1)	Books	2	13	24	N	N	Trite archetypes, simple plot, & one intriguing character.	One original character trait barely carries \\"Luck in the Shadows\\" through hackneyed fantasy archetypes.  The orphan boy Alec teams up with the dashing thief Seregil after they escape a dungeon cell.  They flee to Seregil's home city under the pursuit of evil foreigners, but upon their arrival this plot vanishes in favor of political intrigue.  The sly thief characters blossom in the urban scheming, making the evil necromancer plot feel tacked onto the beginning as fodder for the sequel.  Fantasy clichés abound:  the rural orphan boy hero, the venerable wizard Nysander, and evil necromancers seeking ancient artifacts.  Alec matures into his role, but the harried rush to the conclusion dilutes the earlier focus on his growth.  <br />Seregil's ambiguous sexuality provides the only flash of originality.  Flewelling subtly builds this trait with Seregil's scheming in Wolde and his manipulation of the riverboat captain, and she appropriately omits it from dialog until Seregil reunites with friends like Nysander outside of Alec's hearing.  These interactions hint at the burgeoning attraction Seregil may feel for Alec, but a reader aware of this plotline in advance may catch several musings in the first few chapters that appear to foreshadow an eventual relationship between them, even at this uneasy initial stage.<br />Flewelling's prose clanks along with rare flashes of vividness.  The early chapters drag with info-dumps, yet combat is glossed over with scant detail.  The dialog sputters with modern colloquialisms, and the dialog attributions stumble with adverbs.  The prose often shifts to a new paragraph when inserting a sentence of description into a character's dialog, jarring the reader when the same character continues speaking in the new paragraph.  <br />\\"Luck in the Shadows\\" straddles the fast plot of adventure fantasy like Raymond E. Feist and the character-focused, introspective style of Robin Hobb's Farseer Trilogy.  The unique relationship growing between Alec and Seregil could have formed the ideal core for a character-focused work, but \\"Luck in the Shadows\\" buries this original spark under bushels of stock fantasy trappings.	2004-05-10
US	37889448	R2MHFJRW1AHT46	0380977095	790293218	King of Foxes (Conclave of Shadows, Book 2)	Books	2	15	22	N	N	Quick, predictable, a shadow of classic Feist.	After several sub-par collaborations and video game novelizations, Raymond E. Feist returned to epic fantasy in 2003 with &quot;Talon of the Silver Hawk,&quot; Book 1 of the Conclave of Shadows.  The boy Talon saw his tribe slaughtered and was raised by the Conclave, founded at the close of Feist's previous Serpent War Saga.  After learning typically Feistian lessons in swordplay and boyhood love, Talon extracted revenge on his tribe's executioners, but without any sense of the greater evil that necessitated the Conclave's founding.<br />&quot;King of Foxes&quot; sees Tal swear fealty to Duke Olasko, the noble who ordered his tribe exterminated, and Tal must mesh his thirst for revenge with his Conclave directive to investigate Olasko's magician Varen.  The novel starts with plodding court intrigue, but the story quickens as Tal enters Olasko's service and matches wits with the Duke and the Duke's sly sister.  <br />After Tal suffers a reversal, Feist rushes through a predictable detention and escape sequence and then Tal easily assembles an army of thousands for his personal revenge, since the Conclave's barely mentioned goals have coincided with his own.  Tal redeems his clouded heart, but his character oddly ends the novel in a state of complete resolution, as though Feist plans to switch to a new main character for the next book. <br />Feist's novels have always relied on plot rather than narrative, but the prose in &quot;King of Foxes&quot; rings particularly wooden.  None of the new settings, such as Olasko's city Opardum, feel as real as the grit of Krondor in past novels.  Tal's plain thirst for revenge and his cold manipulation of fencing opponents and women alike render him dull, while his isolation from the Conclave's motives saps any overall tension from the story.  <br />In the Serpent War Saga, Feist took bold risks:  multiple interesting new characters, one of whom spent half a book in conquests financial rather than military; an invasion that razed Feist's core city; the heroes deliberately destroying the relic they had been guarding for five books; and the emergence of a huge new evil.  In the Conclave of Shadows thus far, neither the sole major new character, the sparse eastern settings, nor the predictable plot have the bold flair of the Serpent War, or the charming freshness of Feist's original Riftwar novels.  &quot;King of Foxes&quot; plants the Conclave of Shadows in the dull realm of average fantasy.	2004-03-30
US	37889448	R3UYZ62Q5VTESW	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Smothering bitterness, trivial conspiracy.	In \\"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,\\" J. K. Rowling spun a thrilling yarn that never felt as long as the book's 180,000 words, and escalated the specter of Voldemort from a child's boogeyman into a vicious killer.  At 225,000 words, \\"Order of the Phoenix\\" runs a quarter longer still, as Harry enters a moody phase in his mid-teens.  Understandably uncomfortable with the scrutiny and resentment attracted by his reputation, Harry wallows in bitterness even before Rowling takes away everything that made Hogwarts enjoyable for him -- Quidditch, Hagrid (except for a pointless subplot), and virtually all interaction with Dumbledore.  <br />The looming OWL exams, the educational struggle with the Ministry of Magic, and Harry's fumbling attempt at dating justify some of the dark mood, but the depth of his bitterness drowns any spark from the narrative.  Worse, Rowling lets Harry wallow through the entire book rather than using the dark mood to make his character grow.  Harry's spite for heroic acclaim and newspaper slander almost feel like Rowling reacting to her own massive bestseller fame, and the negative attention it has attracted.<br />Voldemort's scheme seems trivial and pointless for the heinous villain resurrected at the end of the previous book.  The much-hyped death of a character close to Harry, coming after over 200,000 words of excessive bitterness and repetitive academic repression, loses most of its possible impact.  Harry returns as always to the Muggle world for the summer, but \\"Order of the Phoenix\\" leaves his fifth year at Hogwarts seeming tired and empty.	2004-01-07
US	37889448	R3UE8V8LQ0DEG8	0679879242	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Metaphysical fantasy in wildly original setting.	\\"The Golden Compass\\" blends the childhood exploration feel of \\"A Wrinkle in Time\\" with a brilliantly original setting in a novel of sparkling detail and subtle depth.  <br />Driven by the mysterious abductions of children and the vanishing of her uncle, precocious Lyra passes through different settings and characters on an idealistic rescue quest.  Each new locale presents interesting characters, particularly the exiled polar bear Iorek Byrnison, but the settings and foils rarely reappear once Lyra has moved into the next phase.  This constantly changing backdrop gives the novel the feel of a journey, but it prevents the development of any long-term character relationships.  Lyra's bond to Iorek comes the closest to such a connection, producing the gripping section where she bluffs through polar bear politics to help him.  Lyra's character grows but always within her child's perspective, never more delicately crafted by Pullman in the climaxing encounter.<br />Pullman's original world bursts with imagination in armored polar bears and religious metaphysics blended from fantasy ideas and actual theology.  Perhaps his most genius stroke is 'daemons,' companion creatures accompanying every human.  They provide an animal personification of character traits and emotions, and Pullman works their vital importance into the core of the plot.  The ending of \\"The Golden Compass\\" may seem light on action, but the conversations and the reactions of the three main characters ingeniously develop Lyra's character, flesh out the major villain, and turn Lyra's childhood idolation on its ear.<br />Pullman's writing brilliantly straddles the line between young adult works like \\"A Wrinkle in Time,\\" that can appear thin from an adult perspective, and more mentally rigorous adult fantasy.  \\"The Golden Compass\\" is an adventure story about a young girl, but Pullman's subtly drawn intellectual conflict provides plenty of meat for adult readers.	2004-01-07
US	37889448	RCKIFU9J4M01	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Bogs down in travel, new characters, &amp; awkward prophecy/fate	Hobb uproots Fitz from the setting of the first two Farseer books, drags him through ponderous journeys, and drains the momentum of the trilogy with a bloated endgame.  <br />Fitz's walk inland to Tradeford sags with unnecessary fleeting characters, like the Old Blood couple and the minstrel family.  His desert caravan and mountain smuggler trips features more captures and escapes than a James Bond movie, although the Skill clashes maintain tension and the new character Starling is well developed.  Fitz's Skill dreams of Red Ship raids allow the first-person narrative to witness the horror facing the coastal Duchies, and his pastoral images of Molly help drive his hatred of Regal, but as the group slogs into the mountains, the silly Catalyst prophecies and the Robert Jordan-like time cycle concept completely displace these conflicts that drove the previous books.  Worse, the repeated notion that fate now controls the characters' destinies drains any sense that their actions matter.  <br />After unnecessarily emotional entanglements between Fitz and Starling and the Fool and Kettle, they finally do locate Verity and Hobb hashes through more exposition of the Skill and the Elderlings that barely justifies a trite fantasy cliché.  The final clash vanquishes the Red Ships too easily and wraps up all the loose plot ends with the cold feel of a checklist.  <br />Paradoxically, Hobb's tactile description of Fitz's swirling emotions, his conflicting senses of duty to Verity and Molly, and his Skill and Wit bonds are at the same time the trilogy's greatest strength and weakness.  Fitz may be the most round and emotive fantasy character in decades, but his constant inner rehashing of the same emotions grows weary, especially now that he's portrayed as a helpless tool of prophecy.  <br />&quot;Assassin's Quest&quot; diverges from the setting, characters, and conflicts of the previous two novels, and after long journeys it offers only bloated exposition and a tidy ending.	2003-11-26
US	37889448	R15T91ILRE6OOT	0553573411	675959125	Royal Assassin (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Character-centered, plot more focused, excellent writing.	In &quot;Royal Assassin,&quot; Robin Hobb continues the development of Fitz's character as he perseveres through more young man's emotional growth.  Hobb's strengths, the tactile first-person narrative and the fluid realism in Fitz's mental connections with other characters, flourish as Fitz's mind becomes even more intertwined with Prince Verity and a new animal character.  This parallels his emotional development through interactions with the youthful Molly, the exhausted Verity, and the wasting King Shrewd.<br />However, Hobb's consistent weakness, the glacially moving plot, struggles to carry this character development as Fitz languishes in Buckkeep for the first 500+ pages.  The continuing Red-Ship raids provide external pressure on the leaders, but until Neatbay, the actual raids feel distant from the insulated narrative.  Fitz's brief summer as an oarsman reads like a contrived plot detour to allow the narrative to witness a few battles, but the gritty counterattack at Neatbay provides a crucial visual face to the raiding and features key plot points for Fitz and Nighteyes, Burrich, and Kettricken.<br />Against the backdrop of the coastal-inland political tension, the vicious royal intrigue feels like a natural element in this book, unlike the abrupt shift at the end of &quot;Assassin's Apprentice.&quot;  Hobb boldly casts Fitz emotionally adrift, as his three closest mentors, Chade, Burrich, and Verity, all spend long periods of time away from Buck before the conspiracies rush to a climax and Fitz descends into frantic countermoves.  The ending would have been cheesy deus ex machina in the hands of a lesser writer, but hints in the Epilogue and the first pages of &quot;Assassin's Quest&quot; show that to Hobb, it is merely another character choice that has benefits and consequences.<br />Hobb's intensely real depiction of Fitz's character and the growth she steers him through manage to carry &quot;Royal Assassin&quot; on the strength of that developing character alone, without any fast-paced ordinary fantasy plot.	2003-11-10
US	37889448	RJ5E42EQAZSUY	0345448936	785575065	The Fifth Sorceress (The Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 1)	Books	1	18	19	N	N	Terrible novel from a hack writer and a shill publisher.	\\"The Fifth Sorceress\\" is boring, cliched, sensationalist, and worst of all, horribly written.      Newcomb's narrative is a clinic of things writers should avoid:  exposition dumps, overuse of adverbs, and repetitive use of identical descriptive phrases.  The point-of-view awkwardly veers from character to character in the same scenes, and sometimes in the same paragraphs.  Ponderous inner monologues blurt out each character's feelings like comic-book thought bubbles, achieving characterization only at a cartoonish level.      The lands and cultures of Eutracia and Parthalon show no trace of originality beyond the Klingon-esque \\"dreggar\\" sword.  The harshly demarcated gender roles, with the graphic lust of the aggressive female antagonists, is a worn plot device.  Frank Herbert handled it well in \\"Heretics of Dune,\\" but Newcomb's weak writing leaves it feeling like Conan-esque softcore bondage porn.      Del Ray, the largest publisher in the fantasy genre, should be embarrassed for publishing this awful novel, let alone their shameless advertising campaign.  However, given Del Ray's deliberate publishing of poorly written Tolkein clones like Terry Brooks in the 70s, the only surprise in them shilling a poorly written Terry Goodkind clone in 2002 is what took them so long.	2003-10-28
US	37889448	R2SHI5JRNCLOFQ	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Skilled first-person narrative, bland setting, uneven plot.	Assassin's Apprentice recounts the coming-of-age of the noble bastard FitzChivalry.  Hobb skillfully describes Fitz's emotional growth as a royal castoff through a first-person narrative.  The flashback perspective of Fitz as an old man drips with somber nostalgia, producing a far more mature narrative voice than standard coming-of-age fantasy.  Hobb excels at delicate tactile details of things that Fitz experiences, especially his mental bond with animals.  However, the narrative offers no correspondingly deep details of many plot-related points, such as how he steals the letter left in Prince Regal's chambers or any of Fitz's assassin training.  <br />The first three-quarters of the novel drag as the plot bounces Fitz aimlessly through a string of mentors and trades, including Burrich, Chade, Lady Patience, and Galen, each period of his training ignoring the previous one(s).  These characters and others, such as Verity, Regal, and the Fool, veer wildly from background to major importance with no apparent reason.  <br />Fitz's rare forays out of Buckkeep seem to only involve fleeting glimpses of external plot threads, like merely viewing the remnants of the raid on Forge.  The Six Duchies never feels more than an ordinary, quasi-medieval fantasy kingdom, and the nobility's convention of taking names that fit their character traits provides ridiculous epithets like \\"King Shrewd\\" and \\"Lady Patience.\\"  The pseudo-historical passages opening each chapter feel like forced exposition from outside the point-of-view, rather than integrated historical accounts or the old Fitz's nostalgia that Hobb seamlessly weaves into the narrative.  <br />In contrast, the last quarter of the book speeds toward an abrupt climax of court intrigue, almost jarring in the shift of pace, plot focus, and style.  The conclusion provides several surprises among the obvious twists, and most of the previously discarded characters retain importance as prominent or gratuitous participants.  The cityand culture of Fitz's mountain hosts are far more vividly and uniquely described than anything in the Six Duchies, but the emotional focus of the first three-quarters of the book is largely abandoned.  The intrigue concludes without resolving the main external plot of the entire book, the coastal raids, and the sudden ending leaves the novel feeling like an incomplete set-up for the next volume of the trilogy. <br />Assassin's Apprentice uses a skilled and emotive first-person narrative to tell an ordinary story through an unevenly paced plot, producing an above-average fantasy novel.  It _would_ be a great debut for a new writer, but since \\"Robin Hobb\\" is the pseudonym for an experienced fantasy author, Assassin's Apprentice only gives a solid start to the trilogy.	2003-10-27
US	37889448	R70WDOTPCR94R	0345373901	554041564	Venus in Copper	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A decent new case, but still witty character interaction	&quot;Venus in Copper,&quot; the third Falco novel, marks his first new 'case,' as the previous two novels covered facets of the same extended plot.  However, the social scheming of the freed slaves the Hortensii, the reputedly deadly widow Severina Zotica, Falco's clashes with the Emperor's agents, and poisonings at banquets don't provide as exciting a plot as the political conspiracy of the first two novels.  In addition, the action never moves outside of Rome, and therefore lacks the charm of the additional rural settings of Britannia and Pompeii featured in the previous novels.  <br />Falco still spars with his patrician girlfriend Helena Justina, often in the best of Davis's subtle and evocative prose, and Falco's morose attitude about the future of the relationship is skillfully fueled by the entrance of true historical personality Titus Caesar as a suitor.  The Falco-Helena character relationship is the real core of these novels, not the actual plots, so the slightly lesser mystery in &quot;Venus&quot; does not detract from the continuing development of these rich characters.	2003-07-30
US	37889448	R2VSQBX0TU30OD	034538024X	802434539	The Iron Hand of Mars: A Marcus Didius Falco Mystery	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Falco battles the frontier, native/Roman leaders, and Helena	Falco hits the road again in this fourth novel, this time for Germania.  Unlike the first two novels, where the action split between Rome and rural locales, almost all of &quot;The Iron Hand of Mars&quot; is set in Gaul and Germany.  The grit of the frontier backdrops matches Falco's sour attitude toward the journey and his Imperial mission.  His girlfriend Helena Justina fortunately joins the more urban portions of the trip, as their character interactions in Davis's subtle prose are the highlight of these novels.  <br />The plot consists of a long list of Imperial requests relating to recent and past Roman military troubles on the frontier.  Davis skillfully explains the history of first century Roman clashes with the Germanic tribes and relates it to the plot without bogging down in dry exposition.  Falco's interaction with various members of the frontier legions shows Davis's thorough command of Roman military details.  Falco's trek through feral Germania has the same wild adventure tainted with ghosts of legionary history feel as the journey beyond Hadrian's Wall in Sutcliffe's &quot;Eagle of the Ninth.&quot;  However, random encounters with several of the final people on Falco's task list leave the ending feeling coincidental.  Regardless, Davis skillfully develops several new characters, including a gruff centurion and Helena's tribune brother, and continues to build the relationship between Falco and Helena.	2003-07-30
US	37889448	R15UQ4KQMBYSY8	0345374266	646585022	Shadows in Bronze	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good sequel to &quot;Silver Pigs&quot;	More a continuation of the plot from the first Falco novel &quot;Silver Pigs&quot; than a brand new sotry, &quot;Shadows in Bronze&quot; takes Falco to the countryside of Roman Italy, including Pompeii, to follow more patrician scheming related to the conclusion of &quot;Silver Pigs.&quot;  The burgeoning relationship between the plebian Falco and senator's daughter Helena Justina is masterfully developed by Davis's subtle and evocative prose.  The rich details of the ancient Roman setting provide a fascinating backdrop to the round characters with complex motivation and the gritty, sarcastic mood.  Davis's skillful writing triumphs again.	2003-07-30
US	37889448	R2GZUX2MZ9E8DE	0553267604	930626996	Magician: Apprentice (The Riftwar Saga, Volume 1)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A classic story, but awkward writing.	&quot;Magician,&quot; Feist's debut novel, is widely revered as a fantasy classic.  However, from a more detailed vantage, it remains only a classic story as the mediocre prose wilts under close reading.<br />The plot of young boys like Pug and Tomas rising to their fanciful childhood aspirations of great warriors and sorcerers has been done before and since, but Feist fills his story with poignant details that make the character's growths seem real.  The world of Midkemia comes alive with rich detail and history, the creation of Feist and a group of role playing gamer friends in the late 1970s.  (To his credit, Feist has always acknowledged &quot;The Friday Nighters&quot; for their role in building Midkemia).  Several of the supporting characters, including Arutha, Jimmy, and Amos Trask, are so well drawn that they nearly eclipse the two main characters.  The political machinations in the Kingdom, the siege of Crydee, Trask's ship voyages, and Pug's growth as a magician all highlight the swiftly paced plot.<br />In the preface to the 10th Anniversary &quot;Author's Preferred Edition,&quot; Feist states that as a new author, he wrote &quot;Magician&quot; with no idea of traditional novel length and scope of characters.  This raw approach provides some of the novel's faults, including the awkward length, but it also gives the story a naive charm as it works to a conclusion on its own pace.  Feist also insists that he is not a great writer but rather a skilled storyteller, and &quot;Magician&quot; succeeds because it is a &quot;ripping yarn;&quot; an exciting story.  If read quickly, the story still shines, but upon examination Feist's prose wears thin, including clumsy phrasing, passive voice, wooden dialog, and abrupt point of view shifts in the same scene.  If he were spinning this tale around a campfire, the &quot;ripping yarn&quot; itself would supercede the words.  However, on a written page, a careful reader stumbles over the mediocre writing.<br />&quot;Magician&quot; remains an entertaining story for a quick read, but the rough prose keeps it from true classic status.gician&quot; remains an entertaining story for a quick read, but the rough prose keeps it from true classic status.	2003-05-28
US	37889448	R1Q587FPKMOUG8	0380977087	492544464	Talon of the Silver Hawk (Conclave of Shadows, Book 1)	Books	3	125	131	N	N	Better than recent Feist, not as good as classic Feist	In \\"Talon of the Silver Hawk,\\" Raymond E. Feist returns to the saga format of his classic novels after several disappointing novelizations of computer games.  The Riftwar Saga (\\"Magician,\\" etc.) introduced his main characters and the world of Midkemia, and the Serpentwar Saga (\\"Shadow of a Dark Queen,\\" etc.) added new characters and brought the next phase of the epic battle to a raging climax.  Feist then wrote three novels set after the Riftwar, two as book versions of video game plots set in his world but created by the game developers.  Perhaps due to the non-linear nature of video game plots or the distraction of a divorce, none of these had the storytelling skill of his previous work.<br />\\"Talon of the Silver Hawk\\" starts a new saga with a new main character, Talon, and as such draws comparison to Feist's two other saga founding books, \\"Magician\\" and \\"Shadow of a Dark Queen.\\"  The boy Talon survives the massacre of his isolated tribe, and he is raised by strangers in a more developed society that he must learn to understand.  This takes the entire first part of the novel, well told from Talon's point of view, but the narrative plods along as this boy learns the dull lessons of childhood crushes, respect, and social status.  This part of story is set in a far eastern area of Feist's world that has not been used before, a chance for the author to develop and describe something completely new, but this region comes off as an ordinary, quasi-medieval fantasy kingdom.<br />The second half of the novel focuses on Talon's integration into the Conclave of Shadows, the evil-fighting group founded by Feist's heroes at the end of the Serpentwar Saga.  The view from Talon's eyes of previous Feist heroes like Pug and Nakor shows a different side of these long-time characters, but they are appropriately relegated to minor roles.  Talon's coming of age predictably traces through trials of combat and adolescent love.  His few friends are thinly drawn characters present only for short sections of the novel, too short to establish any meaningful relationship with Talon and further develop either character.<br />Finally, Talon is sent out into the world on a mission, taking up residence in Roldem and fighting in a dueling tournament.  As with the far Eastern kingdoms, Feist misses the chance to make this second newly featured locale unique and different, and it feels like a stock medieval city.  The action continues afterwards as Talon returns to his homeland to exact revenge, in a typically fantasy hero way, upon the mercenaries who massacred his people.  The duels and battles are classic Feist combat narrative, exciting and skillfully written, especially the long finish to the final battle.  However, ultimately these clashes don't go anywhere or stir the reader to the larger cause that is being championed.<br />\\"Talon of the Silver Hawk,\\" solid on its face, unfortunately falls flat in starting this new saga compared to \\"Shadow of a Dark Queen\\" starting the last one.  In \\"Shadow,\\" the new characters Erik and Roo were more thoroughly drawn, their motivations more concisely developed, and their coming of age / training phase didn't have the monotony of Talon's Tarzan-like integration into society.  In addition, after this growing phase, the places and tasks Erik and Roo went off to were far more exciting and better detailed than the rather simple and brief mission that Talon is sent on.  Also, the greater purpose behind the actions in \\"Shadow\\" was clear to the reader and also the characters.  \\"Talon\\" only sets up a minor villain, with virtually nothing on the major villain who is assuredly behind the scenes, who was trumpeted as such a dire threat when the Conclave was founded.  This vague coverage of the ultimate reasons for the Conclave's existence and Talon's actions leaves all his struggles seeming poorly justified.<br />\\"Talon of the Silver Hawk\\" sees Feist returning to the epic fantasy saga, outclassing his mediocre recent video gamenovelizations, but as an introductory novel, it still cannot compare to the opening book of his last saga, \\"Shadow of a Dark Queen,\\" and nothing he's written since can compare to the opening book of his first saga, \\"Magician.\\"	2003-04-15
US	37889448	R32UP5M6FEIVLQ	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Skilled writing, moody anti-hero, hackneyed 70s fantasy plot	This classic fantasy series with Donaldson's bitter anti-hero Thomas Covenant was published in 1977, at the height of the Tolkein-inspired fantasy revival.  Many of the clichéd fantasy elements in \\"Lord Foul's Bane\\" seem dated by modern standards, but Donaldson's innovative use of the anti-hero in epic fantasy and his uncommonly skilled writing transcend these stock trappings.  <br />Donaldson describes the Land and the people Covenant encounters, but he doesn't develop the workings of the Land or the cultures of its inhabitants to any more than a backdrop level.  The early supporting characters shuttle in and out of the story with little lasting impact on the plot or on Covenant.  Some of the hackneyed plot points include the arch villain \\"Lord Foul\\" who wants to destroy everything, the minor villain \\"Drool Rockworm\\" who has discovered a powerful artifact, the pastoral beauty of \\"the Land,\\" and the fact that only Covenant can save it from utter ruin.  <br />The subtlety of \\"Lord Foul's Bane\\" lies in Donaldson's vivid descriptions of Covenant's constant mental fight with his surroundings that is vital to his survival as a leper, and the ambiguity that the Land, where his disease is healed and he is revered, may all be merely a dream.  That ambiguity extends to the Land's struggle against Foul, as he may be manipulating the Land to bring about their own doom by asking Covenant to save them.  Covenant represents the first 'real' character in fantasy, with complex motivations, selfishness, greed, altruism, a dash of heroism, and heaps of self-doubt.  <br />Donaldson's adeptly describes this inner struggle, and the doom Lord Foul and his minions advance, with eloquent vocabulary and personification.  Yet despite Donaldson's skillful writing, the book remains ponderous, perhaps due to the erudite vocabulary or the stock fantasy plot elements, but not because of Covenant's conflicted character.<br />Donaldson's Tolkein-influenced fantasy clichés fit with other popular late 70s fantasy, such as Terry Brooks's \\"The Sword of Shannara,\\" but his articulate prose and the innovative bitter anti-hero in a fantasy quest put Donaldson's work above the inept and predictable drivel of most of those writers.	2003-02-20
US	37889448	R1DDOO1O8R5MML	0553381709	549456361	A Storm of Swords: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book Three	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent writing, darkening mood, more round characters.	George R.R. Martin continues his realistic fantasy epic with the major factions still skirmishing for the crown, despite the huge battle at the end of &quot;A Clash of Kings.&quot;   Several of the meandering plot lines continue to wander ceaselessly, while others get turned completely upside down.  Tyrion's reduced political clout precludes the devious machinations that so well fit his character in &quot;Clash.&quot;  Caetlyn broods more solemnly than in &quot;Clash,&quot; and her character becomes even less active.  Arya's endless trek takes new turns yet still continues, but Sansa develops and matures as a character.  As with the first two novels, the plot line of Daenerys across the sea, though vividly detailed, still feels unconnected as she gathers power for her inevitable assault on Westeros.  Bran seems almost an afterthought, with only four chapters from his perspective and very little advancement of that plot line.  Jon follows events north of the Wall, the only new major setting that Martin develops, and Jon's plot line slowly develops but unexpectedly connects with another.  The group of point-of-view characters is augmented by two people previously viewed from other perspectives, including Jaime Lannister.  His character, the most interesting in the novel, develops from the callous, celebrated knight into yet another of Martin's intricate round characters with complex and even sympathetic motivations for their actions.  <br />The flow from chapter to chapter when covering several major events is roughly paced, as Martin quickly alternates between only two point-of-view characters in describing both the Red Wedding and the final events at Castle Black.  This shuttling effectively describes multiple sides of these events, but it pulls the focus away from other ongoing plot lines.  In contrast, the more subtle narrative coverage in the first two books related details or conclusions of important events through other characters' later discussions, rather than in quickly alternating points-of-view.<br />As with the previous two books, Martin's thorough characterization of 'real' characters and his skill with the multiple point-of-view narrative produce a brilliant installment in this extremely vast fantasy epic.	2003-01-26
US	37889448	RT2QHKWQFDQ1E	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Same excellent writing and settings, as war takes hold.	\\"A Clash of Kings,\\" George R.R. Martin's sequel to \\"A Game of Thrones,\\" retains the strengths that made the first book uncommonly lifelike and multifaceted in the fantasy genre:  round characters with complex motivations described through multiple viewpoints, facing real struggles against each other instead of stock heroics against an evil arch enemy.  <br />As with \\"Game,\\" each chapter takes the viewpoint of one of several characters.  Martin adds two new point-of-view characters, including one seen from other perspectives in \\"Game\\" and one entirely new.  New settings, such as the Iron Islands, Dragonstone, and the wild forests north of the Wall are described with the same vivid detail and forethought featured in \\"Game,\\" against the backdrop of a land split by warring factions.  The seven parts of the religious system in the first book are further detailed, a theological counterpoint to the new religion of one faction.  Unlike \\"Game,\\" \\"Clash\\" includes sorcery, a device common in ordinary fantasy, but Martin only hints at it in one case, and combines it with religion in another.  <br />The major characters work through difficult struggles, particularly Arya, while Tyrion, possibly Martin's most interesting character, masterfully navigates the political intrigue at court.  Caetlyn's point of view describes several important scenes in the first half of the book, but she constantly broods over her broken family and plays a less active role in events than in \\"Game.\\"  Bran receives two guests out of nowhere in the middle of the book and then embarks on a new plot tack.  Some major characters from \\"Game\\" are displaced almost completely, such as Robb.  The uneven pacing of certain character's narratives over the whole book, like those of Caetlyn and Bran, leaves \\"Clash\\" feeling slightly disjointed as an overall story.  The plot flies along much faster than the length of the book suggests, and Martin keeps it moving by describing some key battles and scenes but relating thenews of others instead.  Martin doesn't shirk away from even more brutality than in \\"Game,\\" but the vicious barbarisms do fit the wartime situation.<br />As with \\"A Game of Thrones,\\" the dizzying array of endless knights and soldiers mandates the character lists in the appendix, but all of these characters are uniquely and vividly drawn.  Parts of the epic scope, such as the entire plot line of Daenerys, could be eliminated completely.  Regardless, Martin's sequel retains the rare skill of narrative and the realistic feel of his previous novel, while turning a fast-paced yarn through the clashes of war between the various factions.	2003-01-14
US	37889448	R1D4PZZ9GBEZ6U	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Round characters, real struggles - best fantasy in decades	In \\"A Game of Thrones,\\" Martin eschews most of the bland trappings of genre fantasy plot style and writing to create a more realistic, more challenging, and simply better novel than any other contemporary fantasy since Feist's \\"Magician.\\"<br />The old adage about a polytheistic religion, like the gods of ancient Greek mythology, is that you don't need a 'devil' doing 'evil' because the various gods and goddesses will do enough despicable things to each other to make up for it.  Martin's array of very round and very real characters is similar, as they fight enough with each other that \\"A Game of Thrones\\" has no need of the standard fantasy clich&eacute; of an 'evil' arch enemy, whose minions must be thwarted by our heroes at every turn.  In addition, Martin has no true 'heroes,' just round characters with intricate motivations, each one containing some good and some evil, although some act more noble and others more vicious.  This more 'real' style of plot and the thorough characterization of complex characters give Martin's work an authentic feel that no other contemporary fantasy author has matched.<br />Martin's quasi-medieval kingdom includes many common fantasy genre trappings, but he so thoroughly makes them his own that even his chivalric machinations and jousting tournament feel most uncommonly vivid.  Despite the intimidating length of the book, Martin keeps the action and the characterization moving with concise chapters, each from only one character's point of view.  Martin wields this Faulkner-esque narrative technique with skill, showing different sides of specific events, but without having the narrative overlap and repeat the same scenes.<br />The epic scope of \\"A Game of Thrones\\" stretches quite far, although the book reads much faster than the length might suggest.  Some tangential although well crafted plot lines, such as Daenerys, could be eliminated entirely without harming the novel.  The character lists in the back of the book are imperative to keep track of the huge array of names, but Martin still draws each one of these characters, down to the most minor henchman, in colorful and unique detail.<br />Although the length is challenging, Martin's skill in creating a uniquely real fantasy world and plot and the changing point of view narrative make \\"A Game of Thrones\\" a brilliant read for the serious reader looking for more than just pale swords and sorcery imitations from their fantasy.track of the huge array of names, but Martin still draws each one of these characters, down to the most minor henchman, in colorful and unique detail.<br />Although the length is challenging, Martin's skill in creating a uniquely real fantasy world and plot and the changing point of view narrative make \\"A Game of Thrones\\" a brilliant read for the serious reader looking for more than just pale swords and sorcery imitations from their fantasy.	2003-01-08
US	37889448	R1Z72TGI13VHT4	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Dull characters, incomplete plot.	In &quot;Pawn of Prophecy,&quot; the incomplete plot gradually introduces a set of characters, but virtually nothing happens to them.  The characters are thin, as the blatant foreshadowing screams that Pol and Wolf are far more than just a simple cook and a storyteller, and Gorion will inevitably be the farm boy who rises to greatness and saves the world.  The only thing more tedious than Aunt Pol's constant scolding of Gorion after he was well beyond boyhood was the glacial pace of Eddings's plot as the party traveled in a circle from city to city, looking for some nameless artifact they never could find.  Eddings creates a colorful world of seven different lands, each inhabited by multiple races, but he doesn't develop most of them beyond simple caricatures and the different races become just names the reader has to remember.  Eddings writes well and firmly develops his world, but without a more complete story line, &quot;Pawn of Prophecy&quot; is just 290 pages worth of introduction.	2002-08-18
US	37889448	RJE4X2ET2YBNL	0312278705	256940375	Under the Eagle: A Tale of Military Adventure and Reckless Heroism with the Roman Legions (Eagle Series)	Books	2	16	19	N	N	Detailed setting, dull story, utterly flat characters.	The details of daily life in the Legions give \\"Under the Eagle\\" a fascinating backdrop to a dull story involving boring characters. These utterly flat, two dimensional people are built around stock military adventure novel stereotypes as old as the Legions themselves, like the geeky upper class new recruit, the menacing bully, and the crusty veteran. The \\"comic book\\" analogy of a previous reviewer is accurate - the narrative tells exactly what all of the characters are thinking through a clumsy omniscient point of view, instead of showing it through their actions. The awkward dialog they blurt out, laced with an anachronistic modern British flavor, keeps the plot moving without developing any depth of characterization. The thin plot involves the Legion commander looking for a political conspirator in his officer corps, far more than it involves the invasion of Britain. Lots of armchair Roman historians seem to love that an author has sent an adventure series in this time period so much that they revel in Scarrow's thorough historical accuracy but overlook his sloppy prose. \\"Under the Eagle\\" is a fun read, but a quick and ultimately empty one.	2002-08-15
US	37889448	RD6JLRCRQFGKQ	0345369076	752070176	Silver Pigs: A Detective Novel in Ancient Rome	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good story, colorful setting, great writing.	Davis infuses the historical setting and the stock private detective milieu with masterful and compassionate writing, far beyond the talent of most of her contemporaries.  She richly describes ancient Rome, daily life for the middle classes, and the political intrigue of the upper classes.  The stereotypical hard-boiled detective dialog can get tiresome, but the depth of Falco and Helena as characters far outshines these genre trappings.  In genre fiction, where gimmick settings and crazy plot twists usually outsell skillful writing, Davis's work provides a refreshing escape from clumsy pulp.	2002-08-14
US	37889448	R1TIB3UUHBPP9R	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Jordan creates a vivid world, populated with flat characters	Robert Jordan creates a vivid and meticulously detailed world, and then populates it with flat, predictable characters.  Jordan excels at rich, descriptive prose, which he uses to describe his world in minute, occasionally excessive detail.  In addition, Jordan often narrates the reader through intricate descriptions of things irrelevant to the plot, like Rand's farm chores or the river voyage.  Jordan's opposing forces of farcically pure good and cartoonishly wicked evil ring a bit silly, especially given the hackneyed ground he retreads with minions of evil [e.g. bat-winged creatures howling aflight] and the forces of good [e.g. innocent farm boys destined to save the world].  The middle third of the book bogs down after the party becomes separated, as Jordan includes too many irrelevant scenes of their separate journeys [the Tinkers, the Princess's garden, etc.], and his scene breaks inconsistently track time between the different parties.  The final third of the book felt tacked on, with a new character tossed in and the goal of the quest changed to some new thing never before mentioned.  The utterly predictable climax vanquishes the wicked evil, though certainly only temporarily enough to allow the next book.  Jordan's deeply textured prose brings alive his rich world, barely sustaining the trite characters and plot in a worthwhile read.	2002-08-13
US	37889448	R1Q4UUV7F0GMOJ	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Top notch.	A brilliant example of the modern &quot;popular history&quot; style of historical writing, where the prose reads like fiction, but is actually a referenced historical report.  Thoroughly researched, skillfully written -- an excellent, fast-reading yet still scholarly sound account of an important but forgotten battle.	2002-07-29
US	37889448	R6DW00G78UHFR	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	1	8	15	N	N	Derivative plot, flat characters, and inept writing.	The plot rips off Tolkein's LOTR at almost every turn, in the blatant similarity of the main characters, the stages of the quest for the Sword, and specific encounters.  Even worse, these characters are all flat, their actions easily predictable, with barely any depth or development to them.  Their feelings and opinions change capriciously, as though Brooks either doesn't know his own characters deeper than cardboard cutouts, or as though he just changes them to fit whatever situation they are in.<br />Worse still, the writing is amateurishly bad.  Brooks's constant use of indirect dialog, telling the reader the gist of the conversation instead of actually showing the dialog, keeps the reader from being involved in the story and eclipses a great chance to show characterization.  The repeated and varied character epithets (&quot;the tall highlander,&quot; &quot;the Valeman&quot;, etc.) bog down the narrative while the reader tries to figure out who Brooks is talking about.  Brooks's foreshadowing screams out his upcoming plot decisions, combining with his utter lack of originality to make the plot completely transparent - anyone who has read any fantasy can easily guess what is around the next corner.  Brooks also hasn't met an adverb he doesn't adore, excessively overusing adverbs and heavily dragging his narrative down.  This horribly heinously ruins his dialog attributions (he screamed loudly).<br />It's difficult to see how this book was ever considered a fantasy &quot;classic,&quot; or ever even published at all.  It's bad by 1977 standards, and just awful by modern ones.  If you're looking for late 70s - early 80s fantasy that is well written and original, read some early Raymond E. Feist instead.  If you want LOTR, read Tolkein again - you'll find more in it the second, third, or even fourth time through than there is in reading &quot;The Sword of Shannara&quot; even once.	2002-07-24
US	37889448	R1ZKP016IDCVTR	0385336039	305985379	Inside Delta Force: The Story of America's Elite Counterterrorist Unit	Books	3	14	22	N	N	a good look at selection &amp; training, but thin after that	&quot;Inside Delta Force&quot; provides a fascinating look at the unit selection process and the initial six months of unit training and tactics development for SFOD-Delta.  SGT Haney's perspective is revealingly different from that of previous books covering the same time frame of Delta, like Col. Charlie Beckwith's &quot;Delta Force&quot; that was written from the command perspective.  Haney's personal philosophy and his relaxed storytelling narrative, complete with lots of hilarious recounted jokes, give &quot;Inside Delta Force&quot; a working soldier's feel.<br />Unfortunately, Haney's narrative thins out after the selection and initial period of training.  He covers the training for and the abortive mission to Iran for Operation Eagle Claw in about 10 pages, with for example no mention of the joint training exercises with SFOD-Delta and the USAF units, as documented in books by Beckwith and USAF Col. James Kyle.  Haney writes a great description of filthy, early 80s Beirut, but then summarizes all his missions there in a couple pages of vague one or two sentence paragraphs.  Haney recounts SFOD-Delta's role in the sloppy invasion of Grenada, but this section remains brief since there wasn't much to cover.  Haney clearly avoids compromising any events or tactics, but even given this secutiry consideration, portions of his book are threadbare.  Finally, although Haney was in Panama in the late 80s, he was there with regular Army units after he left SFOD-Delta in 1987.  Thus, &quot;Inside Delta Force&quot; contains no first-hand information on the three most famous SFOD-Delta deployments of the early 90s - the invasion of Panama, SCUD hunting in Iraq during Desert Storm, and Task Force Ranger in Mogadishu.<br />&quot;Inside Delta Force&quot; is a great look at early SFOD-Delta selection and training, and a captivating look inside the mind of a thoughtful professional soldier of the 70s and 80s, but fails as a reference on SFOD-Delta itself, covering less than half of the period since the unit was founded.	2002-07-15
US	37889448	R3VG12HU0GW0V	0517577143	291806212	The Guts to Try: The Untold Story of the Iran Hostage Rescue Mission by the On-scene Desert Commander	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Best Account of Operation Eagle Claw	Excellent account of the planning and execution, and ultimate failure, of Operation Eagle Claw.  This book is just as good as Charlie Beckwith's &quot;Delta Force,&quot; but much less famous.  It covers the overall planning of Eagle Claw at a joint-forces administrative level above Beckwith, and covers the joint-forces command of the actual mission, since Kyle was the overall commander at Desert One.  The mechanical and personal failures of the helocopters and their crews are also discussed, as well as Kyle's conclusions on why the mission failed.  Beckwith's book covers SFOD-Delta issues more closely, but Kyle's book examines why Eagle Claw failed.	2002-01-25
US	37889448	R1O91AZ5D3IE1T	0380809397	32158399	Delta Force: The Army's Elite Counterterrorist Unit	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent Personal History of Early SFOD-Delta	Beckwith's book is an excellent account of his development as a Special Ops soldier, in Vietnam and on exchange with the SAS.  He then brings these ideas into Delta Force, goes through all the gov't hassle of getting it established, and then commands SFOD-Delta in Operation Eagle Claw, the Iran hostage resuce mission, 1979-1980.  Beckwith's insight into these issues is second to none.<br />Readers looking for more information on Operation Eagle Claw itself, particularly the Air Force fixed-wing and USMC rotary-wing elements of the mission, should read \\"The Guts to Try\\" by James H. Kyle, Col. USAF ret.  This equally excellent but much less famous book covers the overall planning of Eagle Claw at a joint-forces administrative level above Beckwith, and covers the joint-forces command of the actual mission, since Kyle was the overall commander at Desert One.  The mechanical and personal failures of the helicopters and their crews are also discussed, as well as Kyle's conclusions on why the mission failed.  Beckwith's book gives an excellent account of his part of the mission, but does not cover these more global points.	2002-01-25
