US	37976589	R13IUWCMAY3QNX	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	1	11	43	N	N	doesn't tell whole story	i'm not an expert on middle-east history, but common sense tells me something is missing here. if, as prof lewis says, the soviets were agressively pursuing policies to extend their influence over the oil-rich arab states, i think it's a safe bet the americans weren't standing idly by. what exactly they did, though, is glossed over. is there something here that doesn't agree with the professor's arguments? lewis does the same with with the colonial period. it's well known that the british adopted a policy of 'divide and conquer' towards their colonies. the aim was to bequeath debilitated states that could be manipulated for britain's continued economic advantage. oil had already been discovered in the middle-east by the time most arab states achieved independence. it's hard to believe the west encouraged genuine independence when so much was at stake. there's obviously much more here than prof lewis is willing to tell us.	2004-05-07
US	37976589	R3JUE83TL0FX26	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	2	6	12	N	N	doesn't answer question	this book is really a review of some important differences between islam and the west - eg, attitudes to women - but it doesn't answer the question it poses. why, for example, did western science surpass islamic science? lewis doesn't say. why did islam's attempts to compete economically with the west ultimately fail? the answer is obliquely hinted at but never satisfactorily explained. instead, lewis spends an inordinate amount of time on social and cultural issues - ie, the role of women, islamic reaction to western literature and art, etc. while this is interesting stuff, i don't think anyone would argue that the west prevailed because it treated women better, or that islam declined because muslims didn't read shakespeare! this isn't to belittle social and cultural factors, only to emphasize that it takes money and knowledge (and arms) to supplant a great empire like islam. &quot;money makes the world go round&quot; is the old saying. it's here that the most important reason for islam's decline lies.<br />lewis also places too much of the blame on islam. he completely ignores the complicity of the west, especially in the colonial and cold war eras, not to mention its continued involvement in middle east politics and economics. it's true, as lewis says, that islam had already been in decline for centuries by the time the &quot;infidels&quot; invaded. but this doesn't mean the west hasn't played a big role in islam's continued problems. <br />the book is a useful counterweight to the usual reason thrown up to explain islam's decline, namely, western imperialism. and i think some of the answer does lie in some of the points he raises. but to get the whole answer, you'll have to look elsewhere.	2004-05-04
US	37976589	R344IBNK282KO	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	4	13	15	N	N	difficult arty read	if you're thinking of reading this book because you saw &quot;the hours&quot;, you might want to think again. this isn't a user-friendly read. &quot;mrs d&quot; is an experimental novel in which the omniscient authorial voice is replaced by a web of consciousness, the story literally flitting from the head of one character to another. the problem isn't keeping track of whose head you're in, it's taking all the different viewpoints and assembling a coherent picture of character - and a story. <br />next to joyce's &quot;ulysses&quot;, this is the toughest read. many times i was on the verge of dropping out. but i stuck with it. i'm not sure i made the right decision. woolf, like joyce, was writing for herself and an elite circle of intellectuals. her interests were how to tell a story in a completely new and different way. the story itself didn't interest her as much. this is the opposite of most popular novelists who write for an audience, and therefore put story before technique. so if you're used to reading books for their stories, don't bother with &quot;mrs d&quot;. you'll be bored and probably won't be able to finish it. if, on the other hand, you're interested in how novels are composed and are willing to analyze a novel's structure and form, then by all means dive in. you won't find many books like &quot;mrs dalloway&quot;.	2003-07-20
US	37976589	R2T3YYI0BF1MPK	0679602860	655554658	Don Quixote de La Mancha (Modern Library)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	a one trick pony	this is a pretty funny book about an errant-knight and his many misadventures. only problem is, there's really only one joke in this massive (1000+ page) book, namely, what a fool and madman this gallant knight is. after a while, the joke begins to wear thin. i don't think this is the greatest novel ever written. it's too poorly stuctured and one-dimensional for that grand distinction. i think the reason this book IS so famous is because of the character of don quixote himself. the image of the mad don charging giant windmills is one of the most colorful and memorable in all fiction. don quixote is one of the few examples of a character who transcends the book that created him. hamlet and falstaff are two other examples.<br />a good read, but doesn't live up to the hype.	2003-07-20
US	37976589	R1S63N3RUVTQTF	0198121679	662422574	The Importance of Being Earnest	Books	5	0	3	N	N	very funny	i know this book is supposed to be a satire of the british gentry, but that was a hundred years ago and those people are dead. so what's left is a very witty play about some very funny (dead) people. some wag called &quot;the imp of being earnest&quot; a &quot;verbal opera&quot;. this description is apt. read the book and find out why...	2003-07-20
US	37976589	R32ZLEOOVCUZDO	0451518829	990924494	Sons and Lovers	Books	3	5	12	N	N	strange love	knowing the reputation of this novel, i was curious to find out what the fuss was about. but i found that the best thing about the novel is the description of his family, especially in the first part. his writing is simple and direct, and part one paints a very vivid picture of working-class life in england circa 1900. the other thing that surprised me about the book is the euthanasia at the end. i wasn't prepared for this and quite honestly was shocked to read about paul and his sister annie 'gliggling' and they prepare the morphium od for their mum. paul's love for his mother is also disturbing. his last kiss of the beloved cadaver is completely morbid. frankly, i'm surprised this aspect of the novel didn't cause more controversy. in comparison, the sexual material is pretty tame, granted i am 100 years removed from the book's first appearance.<br />the structure of the book is based naturally on the biography, but still, the story is a little shapeless. there are characters and incidents introduced that are never taken up and resolved. paul's brother arthur, for example, makes short appearances from time to time, but he doesn't figure in the story at all. you can argue this is like real life, and maybe this is what lawrence was trying to achieve, but by the standards of a traditional novel, it is sloppy.<br />i also never really got into the book. usually, i race to the end to find out what happened, but with 'sons and lovers', i coasted. at first, i thought this was because of the book's shapelessness, but there's no reason a biographical work of fiction can't be well structured. i realized the reason is that paul morel is just not your typical 'hero' of a biographical book. in fact, he's no hero at all. he has too many worts and he doesn't try to cover them up - i think this unlikeableness or aloofness of the main character makes the book itself unlikeable and hard to get into.<br />nevertheless, lawrence does write nicely and the novel has some very interesting moments. worth a read.<br />3 1/2 stars	2003-06-29
US	37976589	R4Y3RVVRO3SQ4	0771099843	785214844	Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town (New Canadian Library)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	funniest book i've ever read	no hype. i couldn't stop laughing as i was reading this. and i mean laughing out loud. in a cafe. with everyone staring at me. but i didn't care. and i couldn't help it if i did. it's just too hilarious.	2003-06-22
US	37976589	R17TKIK619K3PT	0671722573	756079165	The Comedy of Errors	Books	4	0	2	N	N	accessible	this is shakespeare's most accessible comedy. it's a farce about mistaken identities among identical twins. nothing complicated here. the play has it's funny moments. it's not the bard's best comedy; that's 'much ado about nothing', imho. but this is not a bad place to start.	2003-06-21
US	37976589	R1E3LIQ0D232J	0671722654	147231792	Henry V (The New Folger Library Shakespeare)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	the great king henry v	this is the last instalment in the history tetralogy that started with richard ii. it chronicles the brief but brilliant career of henry v, incl his miraculous victory at agincourt, the treaty at troyes that gave him the title of king of france, and his wooing of the lovely french princess catherine. this is the play that churchill turned to in britain's darkest hour - 'once more into the breach', 'we the few...', etc.<br />as usual, there are many historical inaccuracies in the play. the most amusing is the death of the duke of york at agincourt. in the play, he's reported to have died valiantly in battle and is therefore hailed as a hero. in fact, he died from injuries sustained when he fell off his horse! he was a fat old man, not exactly the picture we see when we think of war heroes. the lop-sided victory at agincourt is also exaggerated. shakespeare claims that no more than 'five and twenty' died on the english side. actually, about 500 died. 7000 french were killed, however, so it was still a wildly one-sided victory.	2003-06-02
US	37976589	R30M7FN138C7G3	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	8	16	N	N	good story, bad novel, outdated ideas	The \\"idea\\" behind this book surrounded the debate between intellectuals in the 1860's about whether Russia should mondernize and adopt Western ideas, gov't, culture, etc. Dostoevsky was adamantly, nay, zealously, opposed to westernization of russian life. Instead, he had this quasi-religious idea of Russia turning away from the rest of Europe and returning to its Russian Orthodox roots. This is why he has this obsession with \\"suffering\\", which, evidently, is a basic idea in the older, mystical forms of Christianity. It's also why his \\"good\\" characters - the ones who represent what traditional Russians are - like Marmeladov, Katerina Ivanovna, Sonya, Porfiry, all share his obsession and preach its virtues. The \\"bad\\" characters - Luzhin, Svidrigailov, and Lebezyatnikov (actually a muddle-headed good guy) - all represent westernized Russians, and in D's eyes have been corrupted by non-Russian ideas. Are all satirical figures. Only Raskolnikov is not thoroughly condemned. He's a bit of both Old Russia and New Europe. He's westernized on the surface - full of the new ideas, a fact fantastically illustrated by his delusion about being another \\"Napoleon\\", an obvious representative of the west. But deep down he's a \\"good\\" Russian, as his decision to turn himself in and accept the 'necessity' of suffering makes clear. Hence his name which comes from Russian \\"raskolnik\\" which means 'schism' or \\"divided\\". So the central figure embodies the struggle between East and West, and his interactions with other characters are the dramatizations of the so-called \\"arguments\\" surrounding the debate.<br />That's the \\"big idea\\". Whether it ever made any sense - and I doubt it ever did - makes no difference now since it's obviously way out of date. So no-one in his right mind can say that C&P is a \\"great book\\" because of its \\"ideas\\". In fact, I'm not even sure it's a great book. I've never liked D as a novelist: he's third rate. What he really is is a dramatist and polemicist. He has an earfor dialogue, and a wonderful eye for drama and suspence. But he's a mediocre writer. The main difference between a play and a novel is all that stuff between the dialogue - the descriptive narrative. This is where a novelist shows what kind of writer he is. D is no Dickens, or Tolstoy, or even Eliot. He can tell a good story, but there's nothing in the writing itself that I couldn't pen myself. \\"All\\" I lack his talent for dialogue and drama. Of course, that makes all the difference, but you see the point: he has no style as a novelist. He might have made a better playwright.<br />One last comment on this idea that Dostoevsky is some kind of \\"philosopher\\". I've never heard a philosopher make this claim. A real philosopher is a creative thinker, a person who produces original ideas. There are no original and profound philosophical \\"ideas\\" in D's writing. There is a half-baked religious notion that Russian people needed to \\"get back to their Orthodox roots\\" to escape the fate of godless Western societies. This isn't \\"philosophy\\"; it's sophistry.<br />In fact, as a rule, literature is a bad place to look for new ideas. In the past year I've read most of Dickens and Shakespeare, two of the most original and creative writers in any language, and neither ever expressed an idea that someone else hadn't already uttered. What they did do was express old ideas in wonderfully new ways. It's how they phrased thoughts that made them worth reading, not the thoughts themselves, which were often quite banal (\\"to be or not to be...\\"!). Dostoevsky is no different. It isn't what he wrote that was important, but how he wrote it - not the ideas themselves, but how he dramatised those ideas. <br />So if you want philosophy, then go read philosophy. But if you want nice stories, then read literature. C&P is a good, but not great, story. It's definitely not philososphy, though. Not even bad philosphy.	2003-05-23
US	37976589	R36SLBOKPZQ842	0486295842	53462480	Henry IV, Part I (Dover Thrift Editions) (Pt. 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	henry iv part 2	the story of prince hal and his 'buddy' falstaff, continues in the second part of 'henry iv'. the last of the rebels are subdued and peace finally comes to england. but the king is very ill, and his death opens the way for hal to ascend the throne. this he does with class, but in so doing he has to forswear his errant youthful ways, including his drinking buddy, falstaff. this play is really the story of hal's acent, and falstaff's parallel descent. the two paths meet at the end in a poignant scene. a worthy sequel to 'henry iv part 1'. the only drawback is the relative dearth of intrigue or battle-related scenes. shakespeare had juggled some of the historical events in part 1 and lumped two separate rebellions into one, putting both before the battle of shrewsberry, when they actually occurred separately before and after. what part 1 gained in heightened drama, part 2 lost in lessened interest. if it's a consolation, there's more falstaff in part 2!<br />a comment about the reviewer who wrote that prince hal acted dishonorably by abandoning his drinking buddies. hal had no choice but to abandon his old dissolute ways if he was to be a king people respected and followed. if abandoning his old ways meant abandoning his old buddies, then so be it. everyone has to grow up, and hal had too big a role to play and too great responsibilities and duties to continue fooling around. also, he didn't completely abandon falstaff. he specifically said that if and when the fat fool mended his ways he was welcomed to return to see the king who would willingly bestow whatever accolades he deserved.<br />falstaff, on the other hand, was a knave from beginning to end. he bad-mouthed the prince behind his back. he ransomed off the soldiers in his charge who were commissioned to fight for the king and prince for personal profit. he was a coward, and a braggard. yes, he was funny, but only because we laughed AT him, not with him.<br />king henry v did what he had to do. and, if you've seen this play enacted, you'll know that he did it with a heavy heart, not callously. look at his reaction to the news of bardolf's execution in 'henry v' for further confirmation. hal did what all good leaders do: he put the good of his country before his personal feelings. it takes great courage and honor to do this. henry v was a brave and honorable man (at least, the hal of shakespeare's plays).<br />and as for the charge that hal stole his father's crown, the play makes it clear that hal mistook his father for being already dead when he snathed the royal headdress. and he was duly shocked and contrite when he discovered his father was still alive. so, i don't see how this shows hal's 'dishonor'. also, historians doubt the event ever happened. this is the kind of anecdote that begins as rumor in henry's time, and is passed down through generations so it becomes the stuff of legend. but there's no historical evidence that hal ever did such a thing.en this play enacted, you'll know that he did it with a heavy heart, not callously. look at his reaction to the news of bardolf's execution in 'henry v' for further confirmation. hal did what all good leaders do: he put the good of his country before his personal feelings. it takes great courage and honor to do this. henry v was a brave and honorable man (at least, the hal of shakespeare's plays).<br />and as for the charge that hal stole his father's crown, the play makes it clear that hal mistook his father for being already dead when he snathed the royal headdress. and he was duly shocked and contrite when he discovered his father was still alive. so, i don't see how this shows hal's 'dishonor'. also, historians doubt the event ever happened. this is the kind of anecdote that begins as rumor in henry's time, and is passed down through generations so it becomes the stuff of legend. but there's no historical evidence that hal ever did such a thing.	2003-05-23
US	37976589	R3DDHAQZ6VAHZY	0671722832	43217624	Richard II	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a feckless king	richard ii chronicles the events that began the so-called war of the roses, the 14th century civil war between two branches of the royal family. it focuses on the usurpation of the crown by henry bolingbroke (later henry iv). in snatching the crown from his cousin richard, henry 'leapt over' the legitimate heir, his teenage nephew. thence began the internicine feud. historically, the play is pretty accurate. richard is portrayed as a feckless, flamboyant man who believed he had a divine right to rule and forgot that his earthly powers rested on the support of his followers, who he abused and neglected. the play does focus on richard's personality, and he gets a lot of nice lines, but it also focuses on the plotting and scheming that makes this period such an intersting one. richard ii is the first part of shakspeare's history tetralogy that continues in henry the iv, parts 1 and 2, and concludes in henry v. all are well worth reading.	2003-05-22
US	37976589	R2DWZCVZZEYDP8	0671722638	53462480	Henry IV Part 1	Books	5	1	1	N	N	funny	henry iv is misnamed since the play isn't really about king henry but about his son, prince hal, and his enemies, especially henry percy (aka 'hotspur') who is a rival to hal. hotspur is one of the leaders of the rebellion against the king and, at a tender age, is already an accomplished soldier. his story provides the drama of the play. hal, on the other hand, has fallen out of favor with the king, and is whiling away his days in the company of dissolute company, led by sir john falstaff, one of shakespeare's great characters. his adventures with sir john provide the comic relief. fortunately for the king, hal sheds his prodigal ways in time to save his father and his crown in the battle at shrewsbury, where, coincidentally, hal meets and slays his rival, hotspur.<br />this is one of shakespeare's best plays. the story of the rebellion is intriguing, and the adventures of hal and falstaff are laugh-out-loud hilarious. the culmination of the two stories in the final battle scene is wonderful. this is a fitting sequel to richard ii.<br />note that there are some historical inaccuracies and even outright inventions in this play. foremost is the character of falstaff who is pure invention (and genius). the story of hal's adventures stems from his reputation, enhanced by legend, as a playboy. falstaff was the perfect foil for a carousing prince. the biggest inaccuracy is hotspur's age. he was actually of the generation of henry iv, and not as young as he's depicted in the play. shakespeare made him younger to enhance, maybe even create, the rivalry with hal. there are other inaccuracies here, but better for the reader to consult 'shakespeare's kings', an excellent book by saccio that explains the history of the period and the discrepancies in the play.	2003-05-22
US	37976589	R3DE4V3HPZ67T2	0195123182	761719129	Shakespeare's English Kings: History, Chronicle, and Drama	Books	5	5	5	N	N	indispensible	this is an indispensible companion to shakespeare's history plays. indeed, i can't imagine how one can understand the plays without a book like this that gives the historical background to the events shakespeare dramatizes. the writing is concise, the presentation always lucid and logical. i especially appreciated the family trees provided in the appendix. it's the only way you can disentangle the relations between all the characters. can't recommomend this book enough.	2003-05-20
US	37976589	R196L65JR4IH6R	0679420290	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	good detective novel, bad philosophy, bad religion	c&p is first and foremost a pyschological thriller/detective novel. yes, it's also about some ideas that were floating around at the time, but novels aren't about ideas, and if that was all there was to this book we wouldn't be reading it 150 years later. the literary merits of the book are, first, dostoevsky's talent for writing dialogue, and second, his special insight into the neurotic mind, the latter probably because he himself was a deep neurotic. raskolnikov, the main character, is certainly a serious neurotic - the guy belongs in a hospital - but he's not the only crazy character. marmeladov, petty official who falls under the wheels of a carriage, and his wife, katerina ivanovna, are also nutcases. in fact, the scenes with these two characters are off-the-wall hysterical - and i don't mean as in funny, i mean pathetic. d really overdoes it here. these scenes were painful to read. and i can't figure out what his point was except that he enjoys wallowing in this kind of misery. he believes this self-abasement, this suffering is necessary for spritual rebirth.  great, if you agree with him; but unbearable if you don't. his so-called great ideas - ie, his political/philosophical satire/polemics - are often tiresome, as, for example, in his satire of the new ideas of the younger generation in the figure of lebyaznikov, luzhin's companion, who's made to espouse some silly ideas about 'free love' and 'open marriages'. dostoevsky's at his best when he sticks to his story. when he goes off on these idealogical tangents, he becomes a russian bore. a pretty good read - if you can overlook the histrionics and polemics.<br />some more after thoughts. the symbol of moral redemption is sonya. sonya's a woman who's fallen in the face of christ, but through her ardent belief and her suffering she hopes to atone for her sins and still enter the gates of heaven. she is also raskolnikov's savior. like her, he has fallen from grace. sonya alone understands his suffering, and through her devotion she hopes to bring him around to her own understanding.<br />this is all well and good, but there's a problem here. are we meant to believe that the girl who sold her body to help her family is really as big a sinner as a man who kills a human being  as an experiment, just to see if he could do it? is sonya's charity and self-sacrafice really going to be placed side by side with raskolnikov's egoism? d tries when he has raskolnikov say, \\"you stepped over too\\". but what the hell did she \\"step over\\"? what theoretical point was she trying to prove? none. she was simply trying to save her family. there's no parallel here. sonya is a true saint, raskolnikov a true sinner. the two can never be put side by side, morally speaking. she is infinitely above him. yet dostoevsky tries to do this when he sits the two down to read the bible. this is the weakest part of the book, the salvation rhetoric, the salvation mechanism. two sinners suffering together to atone for their sins which are nothing alike at all. whatever.<br />stick to the detective novel and you'll be fine. as soon as you stray into the hysteria and polemics and religious rhetoric, you'll be in trouble. like porfiry who's a very sensible man, that is, until he starts to preach to raskolnikov about the benefits of suffering. you know that at this point porfiry isn't really speaking for himself anymore, but that the author has hijacked his character and is mumbling jumbo for him. you can guess how the results look. just stick to detective story and ignore the carnival sideshows.	2003-05-13
US	37976589	R1Q1TWOPHAEKH8	0679601686	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Modern Library)	Books	4	2	10	N	N	best male impersonator	jane austen is the most manly woman i've never met. her books are full of the kind of intricate analyses that i've only ever found in men, like myself, and have never observed in women, even women supposedly very smart, with all the benefits of formal education, indeed, even phd's from such places as harvard and berkeley. women, however smart they may be, always fall back on intuition when confronted with perplexing problems. even when their intuitions are completely impotent. i've had women tell me that they \\"thought\\" the economy was on the edge of deep recession because their \\"intuitions\\" told them so. or who said they \\"thought\\" a new business venture was destined to fail because they had an \\"intuition\\" about it. yet, when pressed for further \\"reasons\\", they were able to elaborate no further.<br />so it is against such a background that i approached ms austen. and having read p&p and mansfield park i am truly astonished that a woman wrote these books. certainly, the subject matter betrays a woman's concerns. yet, she must have been a rare woman who could patiently analyze and untangle the thoughts and actions of so many confused characters, who could resist the feminine temptation to jump to easy intuitive conclusions. i am amazed. would that there were just a few jane austens in this world. or lizzie bennetts, even. but alas, the world positively teems with lydia and kitty bennetts - and mrs bennetts! sigh.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	R1DMVSEYA48UH4	0671722808	43217624	Much Ado About Nothing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	finest comedy	this is shakespeare's finest comedy. it has the most interesting and well-balanced romance, and a secondary story that is substantial and moving. besides petruchio in 'taming of a shrew', benedick is the only male character in a comedy that is close to being the equal of his female love interest. beatrice is still a bit too much for benedick, but he hangs in there, and their tete-a-tetes make for some of the most interesting lines in all of shakespeare. beatrice is also one of shakespeare's most interesting and charming female characters. i know many readers prefer rosalind from 'as you like it', but i find beatrice's wit, laced as it is with some unexplained bitterness, far more intriguing, even alluring. besides, maan is just a flat-out better story than 'as you like it' or 'twelfth night'. the story never sags as it does in these other plays. it's my favorite shakespeare comedy.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	R166YHIKOMUY2Y	0671722905	764423438	The Tempest (New Folger Library)	Books	3	2	23	N	N	huh?	i watched the bbc television production of this play and my only reaction was, huh? it seemed to be over before it began, and yet, nothing seemed to happen. there's a silly love story, with some pretty lines. and a revenge story, with some angry lines. and some fairies, and some magic. but??? oh, there's some old guy named prospero who settles some old scores and marries off his only daughter. i guess this was the point of the play: how a guy fades in to the twilight of life. i better read the play to see if i missed anything.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	R2SW5X9RUYU81O	0192838806	43217624	Love's Labour's Lost (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	witty	this is witty play about four guys who vow to sequester themselves for three years in serious study, but who are forced to forswear their vows when four attractive women show up and upset their plans. the humor is mainly in the form of wordplay, as only shakespeare can do, and the verbal jousting between berowne and his lady is especially entertaining, and anticipates the tete-a-tetes between petruchio and katherina in &quot;taming of a shrew&quot; and benedick and beatrice in &quot;much ado about nothing&quot;. definitely worth a read, and if you can get it, the bbc television production of LLL is also worth seeing. last of all, i disagree with the other poster who complained of the ending. i thought it was pretty clear that the couples would get together in a year's time. so the ending was implicitly happy. only someone who is accustomed to instant gratification could find fault with it.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	R2N4DYNJFI3P4H	0671722565	43217624	As You Like It	Books	3	2	5	N	N	don't get it	i've watched two different versions of this play and still can't see what the fuss is about. yes, rosalind is a charming character, but the main storyline is limp, and the secondary storyline is far too weak to be a serious contrast of corrupted courtly life versus virtuous idyllic existence. the fool is sometimes funny especially in his courtship of the young lass, and jaques the 'philosopher' has some nice lines, but the whole thing goes nowhere. i need to read this play to see what i'm missing. but based on my two viewings, i don't get it.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	R2U6PQO3QO0MLA	0486414221	324815483	The Merry Wives of Windsor (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a comedy that is actually funny	i've just finished reading/watching all of shakespeare's comedies and mww is one of the funnier ones. it is a lighthearted look at marital jealousy and features one of shakespeare's great fools, falstaff (of henry iv fame). the out-and-out funniest shakepearean play is still &quot;taming of the shrew&quot;, imho, but mwv runs well ahead of the laggards, and certainly well ahead of such better known plays as &quot;twelfth night&quot; and &quot;as you like it&quot;.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	R12IJYH5VIZUSR	0671722891	749895845	The Taming of the Shrew (The New Folger Library)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	funniest play	this farce is flat-out shakespeare's funniest play. the courtship of petruchio and katherina, his shrew, is laugh-out-loud funny. this is more than you can say about many of his other 'comedies'. the other courtship story is more conventional, but still very humorous because of the foolish characters shakespeare has created. see the zeffarelli film with liz taylor and dick burton. also see the stratford festival production of this play with len carieu. it is HILARIOUS, even better than the zeffarelli film.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	R3J7OBXI4DGGJ8	0671722948	370153288	Twelfth Night	Books	3	0	1	N	N	what you will is right	like 'as you like it', i watched two versions of 'twelfth night' and didn't think much of it. the main love story between orsino and viola was ininspired - it made me yawn. the only humor in the play comes from the secondary story of sir toby and his clownish friends, espcially malvolio, the conceited butler. yellow garters! that was a hoot. but viola and orsino? no. especially orsino, who is a wimp and no match for viola. viola herself, while a pretty good female character, is no rosalind. and so it goes. i need to read this play to see what the fuss is about. but based on two viewings, i can't rate this any better than 3 stars.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	RM5BR12GOP7DI	067172276X	196017117	Measure for Measure	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a comedy?	this is a comedy only in the sense that the play ends well - ie, noone dies, most everyone is happy. else, there's little humor in this comedy, save for the knave, lucio. like others here have pointed out, this is actually a pretty serious play that takes a pretty hard look at human weakness, particularly lust. there are some fine, impassioned speeches by claudio and his sister, who pleads for his life. worth a read. but don't expect any laughs.	2003-05-05
US	37976589	R25HR0TRV0LD7F	0671722778	43217624	Merchant of Venice (Folger Shakespeare Library)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	a problem play	this is a very difficult play to watch or read. while shakespeare may have intended shylock to be a villain, to a modern sensibility, he is the victim of society's racism. frankly, i had far more sympathy for shylock than for the christian characters. and i'm not jewish. or christian. i found the treatment of shylock appalling, and while i think a \\"pound of flesh\\" was too dear a price to pay for forfeiting the bond, i believe antonio deserved to lose his wealth. he - and bassanio and portia and all the rest - are irredeemable bigots, and therefore, thoroughly detestable. mov is a good portrayal of bigotry, but it is an impossible play to like when none of the characters are likeable.	2003-05-03
US	37976589	R3QHMWH5LTJU23	0671722816	43217624	OTHELLO	Books	5	1	4	N	N	low self esteem	the tragedy of othello is the tragedy of a man who, despite his great success, at bottom doubts his own self worth.  othello's problem is that he really doesn't believe he's loveable.  deep down, he doubts that a young white woman from the upper classes can really love an older black man who has spent his life in the military.  it's this self doubt that iago exploits to destroy the moor.<br />a good play with one of the great villains in literature, iago.  the third scene where iago 'unbends' the moor is classic.  to see a grown, self-assured man so completely undone is just incredible.	2003-02-26
US	37976589	R29VGDM7OUE8MU	0671722751	43217624	Macbeth (The New Folger Library)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	last of a great cycle	shakespeare's great tragedies are really plays which illustrate the archetypal struggles of men at particular stages of their lives.  'hamlet' is the story of a young man who in his 20's first enters the world and is confronted with the hard facts of life, the presence of evil.  it's a stage we all go through, and how we deal with it, what choices and compromises we make, decides whether we move on to the next stage.  'othello' is the story of a middle-aged man in his 40's who has reached the pinnacle of his career but is confronted with troubling questions about his own identity - ie, he has a mid-life crisis.  despite his success, othello's inablity to see himself differently from how his society sees him proves to be the one weakness that iago exploits to destroy him.  and 'king lear' is the story of a man in his 60's who must learn to let go the reins of power and retire from the world.  lear's inability to do this wisely or gracefully proves to be his undoing.  in the same way, then, 'macbeth' is also a story of a man at a stage of life.  here, it's a man in his 30's who has to decide how far he is willing to go - and how much he is willing to compromise - to climb to the top of his career.  macbeth makes the wrong choices and loses all.  but it's the same question facing many people in their 30's who, having established a foothold in the world in their 20's, spend the next decade scratching and clawing to see how high they can climb.<br />so shakespeare's cycle of great tragedies is really about the stages in a man's adult life and the critical struggles that he faces along the way.  in overcoming these struggles, each man also faces questions about his own identity and his relation to the world.  since these are such fundamental questions we all ask ourselves - who we are, what is our place in the world - it's easy to see why these plays are considered the greatest in world literature.  they touch us in the deepest ways possible.	2003-02-25
US	37976589	R3793UYXRJEM36	0671722727	930167934	King Lear	Books	5	4	7	N	N	moving	this is the tragedy of a king who grows old before he grows wise.  it's a tragedy because old men don't have the time or the energy to right their wrongs; what's done is done.  as lear finds out to his great chagrin.  the play contains probably the most poignant moment in all of shakespeare: the reconciliation between lear and his youngest daughter, cordelia.  it's beautifully written and brought tears to my eyes.  see the olivier movie if you liked the play.  olivier really brings lear to life.	2003-02-23
US	37976589	R37EZ5OOARVHWI	0679776443	879822150	Dead Souls	Books	5	5	7	N	N	funny book	this is a very funny story of philistinism, of dreadfully banal people trying to pull of a perfectly dreadful crime.  gogol rivals dickens for creating hilarious characters.  i especially loved nozdryov, the russian 'everyman'.  and gogol's portrayal of russian provincial society is delightful.  too bad gogol never finished the book.	2003-01-13
US	37976589	R3M593LMOUJGRJ	0679435913	602238450	Dombey and Son (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	one of dickens' best	this novel, sitting as it does between dickens' early and late novels, captures the best of both dickens.  it has the humor, grotesque characters, and melodrama that characterized the early novels, but it isn't without the unified structure, mature style, and psychological depth that were the hallmarks of his later books.  it's one of my favorite dickens books (i've read 11 of them), and if it weren't for the length i'd recommend dombey as the place to start for someone looking to read chas.  if 900 pages doesn't faze you then by all means dive in.  if it does, then start with 'great expecations' instead.  but be sure to come back to dombey.  you won't be disappointed.	2003-01-08
US	37976589	R24U2F9A7O5EXH	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	5	8	N	N	false advertising	i don't agree that this book 'makes one believe in god'.  if anything, it makes me NOT believe in god since, of the two versions of the story, the one without the animals is far more believable.  on the other hand, if the author had claimed that his book would 'make one WANT TO believe in god', then i would agree wholeheartedly.  we WANT to believe the animal story is the true one, not just because it's a better story, but because, unlike the other story, it doesn't shatter our illusions about human beings.<br />martel is right: if we have a choice, it's better to believe in god since the alternative is so utterly bleak.  but i'm not sure we have a choice.  it's hard to ignore the evidence of your own eyes.  one has to work hard to believe.  as pi patel says, faith is hard work.<br />a good book.  it reminded me of how much fun i had as a child reading about animals.  'life of pi' made me realize that 'child within' hasn't completely died.	2003-01-05
US	37976589	R1RE6WWGJHKWZM	0671722840	43217624	Richard III (The New Folger Library)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	now is the winter of our discontent...	someone said that three good scenes and you have a good movie, and the same might be said of a play. rickard iii does this one better and has four good scenes: the wooing of lady anne; the wooing of richard by buckinham to accept the crown; king richard suing queen elizabeth to persuade her daughter to marry the newly crowned regent: these three are pretty commonly accepted as the best scenes. but i also like the scene in the first act when all the protagonists are gathered together, and richard begins to plant suspicions in everyone's minds, so that everyone ends up bickering. then the loony queen margaret joins the fray and denounces everyone to his desert. it's a great way to start a play to have so much discord and dissension. it's a riot to watch all these undeserving people going at each other's throats.<br />i think this is one reason i didn't find richard's actions as objectionable as i should have, and why i even sympathized with richard when he dies at the end. yes, he killed a lot of people, but most of these people were not the best human beings to begin with.<br />so off with their heads, i say!<br />i also thought some of the characters' actions were hard to swallow. for example, i couldn't buy how quickly lady anne agreed to marry richard. i don't care how vain she is, no-one changes feelings on a dime like that. and why the queen turned her young son over to richard's care when she knew it was richard who had her brother and sons executed is a mystery. can this woman be that stupid?<br />and what about that last rallying speech of richard's?  shakespeare couldn't have written a worse speech.  all through the play richard is shown as a person who manipulates people by appealing to their own self-interest: lady anne's vanity, the queen's ambition, buckinham's greed, etc.  then, in his hour of need, when he has to rouse his troupes to his defence, what does he do?  he tries to scare the *&%& out of his men!  in other words, he uses the stick instead of the carrot.  can this be the same richard?  i don't think so.<br />shakespeare was obviously taking some shortcuts here. still, a pretty good play, though not a hamlet by a long shot. but richard iii is a character worth knowing.f the carrot.  can this be the same richard?  i don't think so.<br />shakespeare was obviously taking some shortcuts here. still, a pretty good play, though not a hamlet by a long shot. but richard iii is a character worth knowing.	2002-12-27
US	37976589	R2U7KGROX8PDAJ	0679409866	569473707	Persuasion (Everyman's Library)	Books	2	5	33	N	N	harlequin for highbrows	this applies to all of austen's books. by the time you get to 'persuasion' you get pretty tired of it. same story lines, same themes, same devices. i read this book at the same time as dickens' 'dombey and son'. and after 200 pages of 'dombey', i never picked up 'persuasion' again. i got about half way through before i dumped dainty jane. there's just no comparison when you put them side by side. austen is really not so much a true novelist so much as she is some kind of prose playwright. her novels are really plays embellished by narrative descriptions of what people think and feel. they lack the full recreation of a physical world outside the minds of her characters. one is never even told something as basic as what her characters look like, much less how they dress, act or move. and one gets only the sketchiest descriptions of places and things, much as you'd find in a play. compare this to the rich and vivid imagery of dickens or flaubert or proust and it becomes obvious how far short of novels austen's books really fall. read any play and the resemblances to austen's books become all too apparent. <br />still, austen is a good writer. she just isn't in the same class as the aforementioned great writers.	2002-12-24
US	37976589	R157TW779P8EC4	0140434976	365726027	Our Mutual Friend (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	6	17	N	N	sad	reading \\"our mutual friend\\" is like watching michael jordan play basketball - today, i mean. every once in a while there is a flash of the old brilliance, but most of the time it's just a sad old man who is nothing but a shadow of his old great self. omf is a very tedious, convoluted, unrewarding read. what dickens no longer has in inventiveness, freshness, and creativity he tries to make up for with an overly complex structure and an abrupt and inelegant herky-jerky style. sadly, it just doesn't work. omf ranks up there with martin chuzzlewit for its sprawling unfocused storytelling. and it is on a par with oliver twist for giving the overall impression of being a badly and overtly contrived book. there is little art in omf. not for want of trying, though.<br />one good thing in the book is the character of eugene wrayburn.  wrayburn's a variant of the sydney carton characer in 'tale of two cities', only here he is more fleshed out.  the conversations between wrayburn and his legal pal mortimer lightwood are remarkably modern - ie, they could have been written today.<br />the narrative design of the book is also interesting.  few books are written that don't rely on a central character to carry the story along.  omf is unique in that it gives more or less equal time to a great number of characters.  in this way it's like a robert altman movie - 'gosford park', or 'nashville', or 'short cuts'.  it's a daring experiment, but dickens throws so many characters into the air, that even he can't help dropping a few along the way.  900 pages is simply not long enough to do what he's trying to do.  either he should have written an even longer book (heaven forbid!), or, he should have cut a few characters.  as it is, the result is not satisfactory.<br />if you are a die-hard dickens fan then read this book. eveyone else would be better off reading dombey, bleak house, or even little dorrit. all are better examples of the late dickens.	2002-12-23
US	37976589	R200LHTWA0EKIT	067172262X	43217624	Hamlet	Books	5	2	5	N	N	another view on Hamlet's tardiness	Someone has probably thought of this but one reason Hamlet might delay killing the king is he is really conflicted about his feelings toward his dead father.  Sure, he says a lot of fine things about him, but doesn't this raise a red flag?  Isn't he maybe idealizing his pa?  Hamlet, after all, is the only person who sings the king's praises.  Some evidence in the play suggests that Hamlet Sr may not have been all his son cut him out to be.  For example, if the ex-king was such a wise leader, then why did he have such a fool as Polonius for a counselor?  And if he was such a good husband, then why did his loving wife fly so quickly into the arms of another man?  And what about those sins that he mentions himself, the ones he's paying the price for by wondering the face of the earth in the night.  Was Hamlet Sr really a great and virtuous man?  And if he wasn't, then is it possible Hamlet Jr is secretly  scornful of his dad?  And is that perhaps the reason he doesn't take his revenge right away?<br />Just food for thought.  Something else that bothered me about the play are Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  These two guys are supposed to be two close friends of Hamlet.  Yet they're both dim-wits and total mercenaries.  Just the opposite of what Hamlet is.  What could Hamlet ever have seen in these two guys?  It doesn't make sense.  Something else that belies belief is Polonius.  How is it that the king's chief counselor cannot suspect that Claudius had a hand in the king's death?  This kind of thing was not unknown is those times and Polonius must have known the character of Claudius, not to mention his dalliances with the queen.  How can someone who is so close to the crown not suspect something?  His innocence is hard to believe.	2002-12-19
US	37976589	RU2EAGMABNDTU	0553212923	43217624	Hamlet (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	folly of youth	Like another reviewer wrote, Hamlet is a tragedy of youth, but it isn't the tragedy of lost innocence, it's a tragedy of youthful rashness.  Yes, I said rashness.  Hamlet doesn't think too much, he thinks too rashly, too hastily, without mature consideration.  Just because his mother is a whore he quickly concludes that all women therefore must be whores.  This is why he torments Ophelia and bids her, \\"get thee to a nunnery\\".  This is why he decries, \\"woman, thy name weakness\\".   This is why he's despondent and unable to respond to his father's injunctions.<br />There are plenty of examples in the play of this youthful recklessness.  Laertes, when he learns of his father's death, immediately rushes back to Denmark and assembles an army to exact revenge.  Fortinbras does the same thing in order to retake the land his father lost to Hamlet's father.  Both are checked in their youthful exuberance by their respective kings.  Polonius' advice to his son is nothing but words of caution against youthful excesses (drink, women, gambling).  Polonius' advice to his daughter is nothing but strictures against falling hopelessly in love with Hamlet.  The little dialogue between Hamlet and Rosencrantz about the state of theater in London is about how a wild and vociferous younger generation of actors have sabotaged the stage and are holding the older generation at bay.<br />Hamlet himself exhibits other rash behavior.  When he sees Ophelia's funeral procession and hears Laertes' expressions of grief, he (Hamlet), regardless of the danger he throws himself in, he recklessly jumps into the procession and proclaims HIS love above the brother's.  When Hamlet first sees the ghost he doesn't think to question whether the apparition is authentic.  He believes it instinctively.  It only occurs to him much later that he may have been the dupe of an evil spirit.  When he discovers someone eavesdropping on his talk with his mother, he immediately kills him without even looking to see who itis.  When the king invites Hamlet to fence with Laertes for a stake, he rashly throws caution to the wind and cavalierly accepts the offer.<br />Cases of this youthful impulsiveness are legion in the play and wherever it goes unchecked, tragedy ennsues.  Not just Hamlet's death, but also Laerte's deception by the king, and Ophelia's suicide.  Fortinbras alone comes out unscathed, and only because he accepted the wise counsel of the king of Norway.<br />So Hamlet can be seen as a play about the folly of youth.  Issues about the evil in human nature are raised, but these are not the central themes.  In fact, the play lacks a certain unity of design because there is a big difference between the rashness of youth, which is not an evil, and fratricide and incest, which are.  There's a big incongruity between the central and secondary themes.  For this reason I give Hamlet less than five stars.	2002-12-15
US	37976589	R104FOZGGPNT0A	067172262X	43217624	Hamlet	Books	5	2	3	N	N	tragedy of youth	what can i say about hamlet that hasn't already been said. nothing, no doubt. but that apparently doesn't deter anyone else, so why should it stop me? yes, hamlet is a great play. yes/maybe, it's shakespeare's best play. yes, it's one of the great works of english literature. but the thing that intrigues me is why hamlet hesitates to kill claudius. standard theory, and my own interpretation the first time i read it a full score year ago, is that hamlet thinks too much. and indeed, this fellow DOTH brood too much. but this begs the question, what does he think about? what so absorbs his thoughts that his will is so arrested? is it the tactical problem of how to kill the king? no. this he never mentions. is it doubt over the ghost's authenticity? maybe. yet, this only comes up after the players happen to come to court and he suddenly sees an opportunity to smoke out the king - ie, it wasn't premeditated. so is it really cowardice, then? maybe. hamlet certainly accuses himself of being \\"pidgeon-livered\\" and of \\"lacking gall\\". yet the first thing we see hamlet do is fearlessly follow the ghost where he bids him. and all agree he is a \\"soldier\\".  doesn't sound like a coward to me. so so much for that charge.<br />so what does hamlet think about? two things. one is how wretched the world is, and in particular, how unfaithful his mother has been. and the second is of death, suicide. hamlet's soliloquies are all on these subjects. even in the last act, when he has returned to denmark finally to act on his father's commission, his thoughts are still on death. think of the graveyard scene and his discovery of yorick's skull; or of his fatalistic retort to horatio when his faithful friend suggests that maybe he'd better not fight laertes. <br />so, is hamlet's problem that he \\"thinks too much\\"? or is it really that he's depressed, and, being depressed, he broods? in other words, is brooding the problem, or is it only the symptom of what really ails him? i think it's the latter. i think hamlet's obsession with his mother's actions and with death show that he is deeply shocked by his father's murder and his mother's betrayal, and that he is completely disillusioned with the world and with life. shock and disillusionment are perfectly natural reactions, but in hamlet they are felt in a degree that is not found in most people. but hamlet is not like most people. he is a particularly intelligent and sensitive young man. a noble young man. the kind of man who recoils when confronted with evil, and rather than live in such a world, resigns, because such a life is not worth the candle.<br />hamlet's actions prove this inclination to death. to a man in his position, the wisest course of action is to avoid attracting suspicion to himself. instead, hamlet does everything to draw the king's attention. he mopes and broods. he acts like a madman. he puts on a play before the king in which the murder is re-enacted. he does everything to make the king suspect that hamlet is up to something. and surprise, surprise! it works! hamlet is exiled and nearly murdered.  and even when he returns to denmark, rather than hide himself and wait for the right opportunity to strike, he shows up at the castle and agrees to fight laertes in the king's own wager!  what does all this point to except that hamlet is asking for it?!  he wants the king to put him out of his misery.  he wants to incite the confrontation that he can't bring himself to initiate.  he wants to get out of this world, albeit, on the most honorable terms possible.<br />believe it or not, there ARE people like this who just cannot reconcile themselves to the ugliness of the world. most of us are not nearly so sensitive, and we make compromises. indeed, most of us eargerly join the fray and contribute our fair share of sin and all that bad stuff.  some zealots even add more than their alotted share. but not hamlet. he represents the purity of noble youth. and the tragedy of his death is really the tragedy of that part of us which dies every time we acquiesce in evil; that part of us which died when we cast away our ideals and agreed to take the world on ITS terms, and not our own.<br />a wonderful play. i especially recommend the bantam edition. it's edited by david bevington and includes original source material, in other words, the actual stories or plays that shakespeare probably based his plays on.	2002-12-14
US	37976589	R2OXD7DBTX2OG8	0553212834	512547749	Four Tragedies: Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, Macbeth (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	excellent edition of great tragedies	this is an excellent 'cheap' edition of the great tragedies.  besides being edited by david bevington, considered one of the foremost shakespeare scholars, the bantam edition also includes introductory essays for each play AND the source material that shakespeare used - ie, the actual short stories or plays that the bard drew on to the write his plays.  wonderful stuff and a great way to get into shakespeare.	2002-12-14
US	37976589	R136REVLAPN9MV	0679405682	976358997	Bleak House (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	one of dickens' best	biting satire, moving melodrama, a suspenseful mystery, and above all, dickens' wonderful imgagery: this is one of dickens' finest books.  only weakness is in the mystery theme.  tulkinghorn's stalking of lady dedlock is meant to personalize the chancery theme, yet it's never clear why he does it - ie, how he benefits by destroying the marriage of his client, leicester dedlock.  the motivation of the barrister's killer is also somewhat forced.  otherwise, a great book.	2002-12-06
US	37976589	R66HE62JCU2Q1	0771099843	785214844	Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town (New Canadian Library)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	the funniest book i've ever read	Like the heading says, this is the funniest book I've ever read.  Leacock was a comic genius and this is his best work.  Buy it, read it, love it.	2002-12-04
US	37976589	R29M4TLYLMA9A5	0679435913	602238450	Dombey and Son (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	one of dickens' best, inexplicably neglected	I don't know why &quot;Dombey and Son&quot; isn't as well known as some of Dickens' other novels.  I've read ten of his books and this is quite easily one of his best.  It has everything that readers know and love about Dickens early novels: the colorful characters, laugh-out-loud humor, and moving melodrama.  But, sitting as it does in the middle period of his career, it also has the things that made his later novels so great: the carefully planned, well structured plot, psychological depth, and Dickens' inimitable word play and imagery.  This novel has it all.<br />I would heartily recommend &quot;Dombey and Son&quot; to anyone.  If you are already familiar with Dickens, you will revel in this book; and if you are new to this great writer, you won't find a better introduction to his unique world.	2002-12-01
US	37976589	R2GFJSQB559B38	0553211765	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities	Books	5	1	1	N	N	terrifying and moving	this is dickens' most emotionally powerful novel.  the final scene on the scaffold is one of the few times dickens elicits the tears without doing violence to the reader's sensibilities.  the tears flow naturally and willingly.  the story is nicely structured, and there are no wasted subplots, characters, or even words: everything works towards the single end of telling the story of people swept up in the destructive wave of the french revolution.  the greatest achievement, though, is the unyielding atmosphere of disquiet transformed to terror that overhangs the whole book.  dickens was always supremely good at creating atmosphere, or \\"mood\\", but TOTC is his greatest sustained effort.  (that it's also one of his shortest books might have something to do with that!)	2002-11-14
US	37976589	R6OO2VH4SA81	0140434925	91919063	Little Dorrit (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Well structured, just a little flat	Almost as good as Bleak House. Two shortcomings, though. One, the poetry of the language never reaches the same heights. Dickens just doesn't seem as inspired here, and there are moments when he even seems tired and to be suffering from the same disappointment his characters complain of. Two, the mystery theme is pushed to the background and is lame in comparison. Otherwise, the structure is excellent, weaving the themes of the Circumlocution Office and self-imprisonment relatively seamlessly through the story. <br />One reviewer here has commented that \\"Little Dorrit\\" is not without Dickens' trademark humor, and, with one qualification, I would agree.  Mr F's Aunt, Mrs Plornish, and Edmund Sparkler in particular are all quite funny. Characters like William Dorrit and Flora Finching, however, who would have been funny in earlier books (eg, Wilkins Micawber and Dora Spenlow in \\"David Copperfield\\" it can be argued, are younger - and more romantic - versions of Dorrit and Flora) are only pathetic in this one. It is a sign of the change in Dickens that he can no longer see the lighter side of these characters.<br />BTW, there is another little joke for those versed in Victorian Lit. The comedic couple Edmond Sparkler and Fanny Dorrit are a play on an earlier couple, Edmond Bertram and Fanny Price in Jane Austen's \\"Mansfield Park\\". The joke is that Dickens has taken the names and inverted the characters. Fanny Dorrit couldn't be more different than Fanny Price, and likewise Edmond Sparkler and Edmond Bertram. I'm sure this is not an accident. Dickens had a thing for the name Fanny, using it for two of his less appealing \\"temptresses\\", Fanny Squeers (in \\"Nicholas Nickleby\\") and of course Fanny Dorrit. Funny stuff.<br />And speaking of Fanny Dorrit, I have one last comment.  It is often said of Dickens that he couldn't create good female characters.  This puts me in mind of Chesterton who related a similar complaint made by Dickens' male contemporaries that he couldn't describe a gentleman.  As Chesterton deftly pointed out, however, what these gentlemen really meant was that Dickens couldn't (or wouldn't) describe gentlemen as they wished themselves to be described.  Rather, Dickens described gentlemen as they actually appeared.  I might say the same thing about the women who complain about Dickens' female characters.  It's not so much that Dickens couldn't (or wouldn't) describe good female characters.  Rather, it's that the kinds of characters he did describe aren't the ones the complanaints wish to see.  Women praise the Elizabeth Bennetts of the book-world not because the real world is full of Liz Bennetts (it's not), but because that's the way they themselves wish to be seen.  Truth is, however, there are far more Fanny Dorrits and Flora Finchings and Dora Spenlows than there are Liz Bennetts.  The women who complain of these characters, though, would rather ignore this unflattering little fact.  Whatever.  The truth will out, and there's far too much truth in Dickens characters to be so lightly dismissed.<br />4 1/2 stars	2002-11-11
US	37976589	R2ZKH8MQAWLQR1	0192545094	191981119	Martin Chuzzlewit (The Oxford Illustrated Dickens)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	wanders	this book suffers from the lack of a central character to carry the story.  young martin chuzzlewit, the book's namesake, only appears in about a quarter of the book.  old martin chuzzlewit appears in even less.  seth pecksniff and sairey gamp are both amusing, but their characters are not central to the story.  jonas chuzzlewit is central to the story, but he doesn't show up until halfway through.  without a character to draw the reader's interest, a character the reader can follow the fortunes of, the book wanders.  it's not a surprise that the installments of this novel didn't sell well.<br />the prose is gorgeous, as usual, but the story drags.  worth a read, but not if you're new to dickens.  best to start off with nicholas nickleby which doesn't suffer from the same defect.	2002-11-11
US	37976589	R2GN4U1QCNH50B	0140434925	91919063	Little Dorrit (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	disappointment	this is a novel about disappointment.  almost every character is unhappy about his lot in life:  clennan about his lost youth, lost loves;  mrs clennan about her marriage;  william dorrit about his time behind bars;  daniel doyce about his failed efforts to promote his invention;  henry gowan about not being provided for by his well-connected relations;  the meagles about losing their only daughter to a man like mr gowan;  the villain rigaud about his 'ungentlemanly' treatment by society;  flora finching about her lost looks;  miss wade and tattycoram about society's supposed condescension;  little dorrit about her father's fate;  and so on.  the main line of the book, then, is how each of these people deals with his/her disappointment.<br />the story is also about 'surfaces', or the airs people put on to enhance their places in society.  many take on personas to hide their disappointment.  william dorrit is the prime example of this, but others, like rigaud, ms wade, little dorrit's sister fanny, mrs clennan, henry gowan, also adopt personas.  then there are the already-elevated members of the ruling class, like the family barnacle and the capitalist titan mr merdle, who put on airs to hide their disqualifications for their exalted positions.   mr merdle even uses his 'surface' to perpetrate a collosal fraud that would put the worldcoms and enrons of our time to shame.<br />this theme of 'surfaces' is reinforced by the narrative design of the book which is itself a surface.  much of the action in the story happens behind the scenes - ie, below the surface.  panks' investigation of the dorrit inheritance, the business at clennan and co., rigaud's machinations, ms wade's relationship with tattycoram: all are described in only enough detail to let the reader know that something is happening, but never enough detail to know precisely what.  in hiding the machinery of the story, dickens puts the reader in the position of someone who is in the dark about the story, as ifthe reader himself were in a prison and was wholly reliant on outsiders for information about what is happening.  it's in this subtle narrative structure that the book itself resembles a prison, a prison that mirrors and reinforces the dominant symbol of the book.  this is the strongest feature of the book.	2002-11-04
US	37976589	R1IN5A6PRRV60B	0460876007	596871917	Old Curiosity Shop (Dickens Collection)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	the death of little nell	a story in the tradition of the picaresque novel, but with a twist.  instead of a young man rambling through the countryside in search of fun and frolick, dickens sends a young girl and her grandfather through the countryside in flight from their unhappy and troubled urban lives.  the writing is closer to oliver twist than nicholas nickleby, albeit w/o the caustic tone of the former.  this is a tale of pure fantasy; dickens didn't have an axe to grind in penning the curiosity shop.  <br />on the whole, a decent novel. ...  not dickens' best but still worth reading.<br />one question remains, however: why did he kill nell?  yes, there is poetic justice in taking the little girl from the old man as punishment for his stupidity.  but this is a very harsh penalty to visit on a senile old dolt.  i rather suspect the death of nell is related to the death of dickens' sister-in-law, a young girl whom dickens was very fond of who died at the age of 16 or 17.  dickens was reportedly devastated by the loss and forever remembered and idealized her as a sweet and virtuous girl.  i suspect the death of nell is the fictionalized version of the death of his sister-in-law.  in a way dickens tried to deal with his own grief by writing about it in this book.  indeed, when dickens writes near the end of the book that (and i paraphrase) \\"unless one has had a similar loss it's hard to imagine the sense of emptiness felt by the grandfather\\", it's not hard to imagine dickens is speaking  for himself.<br />i was surprised by the emotional power of the death scene.  it's one of the most famous in literature, and yet, it has not played well with more recent audiences who have found it too sentimental.  it is the scene of which oscar wilde famously said, \\"unless you have a heart of stone, it is impossible not to laugh at the death of little nell\\".  well, not only didn't i laugh but i found i had to suppress a tear.  although dickens is clearly TRYING to make us cry, i believe his sincerity anddepth of true feeling shines through and raises the writing above the sentimentalist accusations.  the death of nell, like the death of dickens' in-law, is a tragedy.	2002-10-25
US	37976589	R1NXUJTIDARAE9	0679423079	16284361	Nicholas Nickleby (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	funny book	this is the sixth dickens' novel i've read and is the funniest yet.  it is classic early dickens, a picaresque tale that is really more a string of incidents than an integrated, economical novel.  still, it positively overflows with dickens' youthful energy and high spirits.  forget about its limitations and just enjoy the humor.  i especially loved the mrs nickleby character.  supposedly, she is modeled after dickens' own mother!  yikes!	2002-10-06
US	37976589	RAT2XAV4C0ZAL	0812580036	365726027	Oliver Twist	Books	2	3	8	N	N	early Dickens	I actually started reading Dickens with his later novels - Bleak House, Great Expectations, David Copperfield, etc. - and I found Oliver Twist to be a big disappointment.  Besides Dickens' characteristic humor, I found the novel lacked his usual colorful characterization - Fagin is the lone exception.  And it is clearly written by a younger Dickens who had not yet developed his mature style.  Dickens' biggest weakness is clearly on display, however, that is his poorly structured plots that rely too much on fantastic coincidences.  The whole book has the quality of an unpolished, wooden, and even amateurish story.  It's really not one of Dickens' best books, and maybe even one of his worst.  (I have to read a few more of his earlier books to decide this.)  I think if it wasn't for the well-known scene where Oliver 'asks for more', this story would not be as famous as it is.  Overall, a big disappointment.  I'm selling my copy of the book.  It doesn't deserve to sit on my shelf beside Bleak House, Copperfield and the rest.	2002-09-14
US	37976589	RXAUQ8B2DCA9P	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	4	2	2	N	N	easy way to read Ulysses	OK.  It doesn't take a genius to realize that unless you're name is James Joyce you're not going to fully understand this book.  There are too many obscure allusions and not even the very well read will get it all.  So here's how I tackled the book.  Skip the allusions.  Yes, skip them.  There's no point trying to figure them out because you won't.  Just read the narrative, follow the story, trace the themes, and 'try' to appreciate Joyce's style.  Then, if you really like the book that much go back and re-read it, only this time use one of the 'guides' to Ulysses that are out there to figure out the allusions.<br />If you approach the book this way it become much easier to read.  You'll still get the story, the structure, and the enough of the style.	2002-08-08
