US	38074128	R3MLV6W7T3ZEK7	0802860613	103995848	Lilith	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Truly a Mind-Bending Experience...	MacDonald's \\"Phantastes\\" often seems to be compared to his other surreal adventure story \\"Lilith\\".  In both stories, a young man is residing harmlessly at home when a door is suddenly opened to another world.  Both men - one in each story - step inside and embark on a journey, though neither is exactly sure where he is going or why.   <br /> <br />In these fairy type worlds, both men encounter the sweet, the evil, the beautiful and the creepy.  Both men receive intermittent guidance along the way, and both have to discern who to trust and who not to trust.  Indeed, there is a very similar feel to the two stories. <br /> <br />However, that said, I found \\"Phantastes\\" to have quite a different tone than \\"Lilith,\\" and in it MacDonald explores different issues.  \\"Lilith\\" was filled with epic themes of good and evil.  While the main character struggled to figure out who was good and who was evil, he essentially is always battling the force of evil - and all the moreso the more he figured out what was going on.  This dynamic tension and ensuing adventure therefore draw the reader through the book like one is drawn through a good mystery novel. <br /> <br />The plot of \\"Phantastes,\\" however, progresses mostly without any singular struggle with evil or any other epic tension; the main character is simply bopping around a fairy land, getting into some scrapes and meeting some interesting folks.  His major struggles, essentially, always come down to battling his own private demons and weaknesses.  This being the case, I found that \\"Phantastes\\" moved a lot slower than \\"Lilith.\\"  I'm not saying I didn't enjoy it; it simply wasn't clear what the point was to this fairy journey. <br /> <br />In the end, if a reader enjoys one of these books, he will likely enjoy the other one.  MacDonald was not the most gifted pure writer, but he was incredibly gifted in transporting the reader to new realms.  And, his constant creativity and mind-blowing turns of plot in these new realms is definitely enough of a reason to read him.  He did inspire the likes of Tolkien and Lewis after all.	2004-08-05
US	38074128	R3JDUMUJG83J5H	0802860605	235200045	Phantastes	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Not Quite As Good As Lilith...BUT Still Wonderful	MacDonald's \\"Phantastes\\" often seems to be compared to his other surreal adventure story \\"Lilith\\".  In both stories, a young man is residing harmlessly at home when a door is suddenly opened to another world.  Both men - one in each story - step inside and embark on a journey, though neither is exactly sure where he is going or why.   <br /> <br />In these fairy type worlds, both men encounter the sweet, the evil, the beautiful and the creepy.  Both men receive intermittent guidance along the way, and both have to discern who to trust and who not to trust.  Indeed, there is a very similar feel to the two stories. <br /> <br />However, that said, I found \\"Phantastes\\" to have quite a different tone than \\"Lilith,\\" and in it MacDonald explores different issues.  \\"Lilith\\" was filled with epic themes of good and evil.  While the main character struggled to figure out who was good and who was evil, he essentially is always battling the force of evil - and all the moreso the more he figured out what was going on.  This dynamic tension and ensuing adventure therefore draw the reader through the book like one is drawn through a good mystery novel. <br /> <br />The plot of \\"Phantastes,\\" however, progresses mostly without any singular struggle with evil or any other epic tension; the main character is simply bopping around a fairy land, getting into some scrapes and meeting some interesting folks.  His major struggles, essentially, always come down to battling his own private demons and weaknesses.  This being the case, I found that \\"Phantastes\\" moved a lot slower than \\"Lilith.\\"  I'm not saying I didn't enjoy it; it simply wasn't clear what the point was to this fairy journey. <br /> <br />In the end, if a reader enjoys one of these books, he will likely enjoy the other one.  MacDonald was not the most gifted pure writer, but he was incredibly gifted in transporting the reader to new realms.  And, his constant creativity and mind-blowing turns of plot in these new realms is definitely enough of a reason to read him.  He did inspire the likes of Tolkien and Lewis after all.	2004-08-05
US	38074128	RVHKLF63DXZAS	0689839618	365726027	Great Expectations	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Worth Reading In Spite of Itself	Well, unlike the multitudes in America, I was NOT forced to read \\"Great Expectations\\" in high school or at any other time.  However, lately it seemed like it was time to pick up this old classic and to dig into its treasures.<br /><br />The story starts out with an unlikely scene in a graveyard in a small English village.  There we meet a little boy named Pip, who is visiting the gravesites of both of his parents.  There we also meet a desperate convict who is cowardly enough to scare the little boy half to death in order to get some food and other items.  Pip - an earnest, battered little orphan being raised by his sister and brother-in-law - anxiously sets out to please this convict.  And so starts the tale of Pip's life.<br /><br />After the convict scene, Dickens takes his time in setting up exactly what Pip's life was like as he was groomed to take his brother-in-laws place as the blacksmith in the town.  Dickens' genius for wit, along with some very likeable characters, help pull the reader through the endless pages of details and slow action.<br /><br />Soon, however, Pip's fortunes change...and then they change again...and then yet again.  Yet, while the storyline somewhat resembles a roller coaster, the pacing is so slow that one is never overwhelmed by the action.  In fact, I was rather underwhelmed by the amount of action there was for the number of words I was reading.<br /><br />Even so, I would say that this book is worth the effort.  Dickens explores human nature of an average man when beset by a number of unusual situations, each one building on the last.  Pip is likeable in these scenarios because he is never obnoxiously perfect or unaffected by his changing fortunes.  In some ways, he \\"learns his lesson\\" by the end.  In others, he does not.<br /><br />While Dickens tackles some rather weighty issues in this book, he does so in his distinctive, chipper, witty manner.  Thus, one never really understands the emotional depths that the characters experience due to either their oppressive or their opulent fortunes.  But, of course, one does not go to Dickens for emotional depth.  One reads Dickens for explorations of tough circumstances with happy endings.  If that is what the reader wants, Dickens is probably as able to handle the issues as anyone.ence due to either their oppressive or their opulent fortunes.  But, of course, one does not go to Dickens for emotional depth.  One reads Dickens for explorations of tough circumstances with happy endings.  If that is what the reader wants, Dickens is probably as able to handle the issues as anyone.	2004-07-28
US	38074128	R9V39IHNTWW4T	0062505637	982104784	Flight of the Shadow	Books	3	7	9	N	N	My Least Favorite MacDonald Book So Far	George MacDonald is one of those writers who seems to have had a great impact in the literary world and yet who is little read today.  CS Lewis and JRR Tolkien, among others, held MacDonald in very high regard.  His innovative method of reviving fairy tales and using them for adults greatly influenced their fertile minds.  And yet, while his works are imaginative and hopeful, they probably aren't the best pure writing you will come across.<br />In this book, MacDonald explores a tricky romance beset with obstacles between Belorba (your narrator) and John.  MacDonald first gives you all the background on Belorba's idyllic upbringing with her loving uncle.  He then sprinkles details of John's past throughout the book...details which greatly influence much of the action of the book.  While you mostly see and experience everything through the eyes of young Belorba, this story is not solely concerned with her coming of age story.  MacDonald allows you to appreciate the growth and revelations of other characters as well.<br />In my opinion, \\"Flight of the Shadow\\" highlights MacDonald's weaknesses as well as his strengths.  Oftentimes in his life he was not so much a story-teller as a minister with a heart to bring hope to the weary.  While doing so in his distinct, dreamy manner, his end goal in this book is always in sight; you never escape the sense that he is trying to prove God's goodness and thus the story is often didactic at best.<br />To me, the one promising aspect of this book that could lift it from simply being an overly manufactured piece was his exploration of the fantastic.  In his Princess tales as well as in \\"Lilith\\" and \\"The Portent\\" (also known as \\"The Lady of the Mansion\\"), he created breath-taking, mind-boggling ethereal realms that intersected and contradicted our everyday world.  Such concepts thrilled my mind and stimulated my dreams.  However, in this piece, the fantastic element is reduced to a rationalistic interpretation, and all I was left with was a nice but slightly didactic tale.	2004-06-14
US	38074128	R159XE83X4QJSV	0140184953	459703484	The End of the Affair (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Radiant Hope in the Midst of the Desert	A Catholic friend of mine recommended this book as a quick but wonderful weekend read.  Although the book is clearly titled \\"The End of the Affair,\\" I little anticipated what I was getting into.  Indeed, this book explores the winding down of a passionate affair between Bendrix (your main narrator) and Mrs. Sarah Miles.  As much as I favor modern British literature, reading a tormented, neurotic man's twisted thoughts was not exactly my idea of a great weekend read.  For the first half of the book, I greatly doubted my friend's reading recommendations.<br />However, like in \\"Till We Have Faces,\\" I found the second half of the book more than justified the first half's wanderings.  Greene uses much of the first half of the book to set the stage; he introduces the main characters, their incredibly complex relations, and their current miseries.  In light of the second half of the book, I have a heightened appreciation of the first half.  <br />This understood, the thing I truly admire in the first part is Greene's ability and willingness to capture how multi-faceted our feelings towards others often are.  Novelists often tritely portray a woman's husband and her lover as bitter enemies; Greene does no such thing.  Love and hate are always shown as polar opposites, but Greene shows how they are two sides of the same coin.  Bendrix (and thus Greene) dwells on the characters' glaring flaws of jealousy, passivity, hypocrisy, infidelity, and vast emptiness, and yet a careful reader is able to discern that these characters are truly good.  I have no idea how he does this except for the sympathy that comes from extreme transparency.<br />I don't want to give away what happens towards the end; indeed, it is so complex that I don't know that I could relate it if I tried.  However, as mentioned in other reviews, there is essentially a gravitational pull towards God despite the fact that none of the characters really believe in God.  This book is in no way preachy as nothing - andI mean NOTHING - is preached to the reader as to how he should think, feel or believe.  The author simply shows that through all the swirl of action and emotion, the one thing that continues to make sense is the existence and love of God.  And the presence of this God suddenly hallows the characters that you instinctively knew were good all along.<br />Greene's exploration and approach to such faith are completely brand new to me.  He might have a distinct Catholic perspective or he might just revel in God's love for the realistically sinful man.  Either way, I was left at the end with a strong sense that Greene was a master craftsman.  He was such a craftsman that I didn't catch on to how he pulled off all he was able to pull off by the end.  It's been awhile since I've read such a truly well-written masterpiece, and I am thankful to have read this one.	2004-06-14
US	38074128	R3IZE4SS5VJVU7	0460003623	922066208	Nether World (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Another True Glimpse at Victorian Times	In &quot;The Nether World,&quot; Gissing gives you another one of his hard, realistic looks at life in London in Victorian times.  This time he focuses on the poorest of the poor in the Clerkenwell area of London.  These are people whom England's infantile labor laws generally can't help.  If/When they can find work, they often work 16 hours per day all week, and the wages they earn hardly cover rent for a very small room in disreputable housing.  It's a world where unwanted children multiply like rabbits, and the death of any family member is usually seen as a relief of one less mouth to feed.  <br />For all these reasons, this world - this nether world - is a world about which the upper and middle classes are happily ignorant.  Those born into these lowest levels of humanity often rail about the injustice of being born into such circumstances.  However, their cries for social reform, their desperate attempts to better themselves, and their pitiful needs for simple pennies are never really heard or understood by those more comfortably off.  <br />Within this novel, then, Gissing explores the lives of a range of characters as they deal with being born in the nether world.  While he focuses on the heart-warming characters of Jane Snowdon and Sidney Kirkwood, Gissing competently develops the storyline of a large number of other Clerkenwell characters whose lives intertwine with Jane's and Sidney's.  In his distinct manner, Gissing is mercilessly honest and yet generally compassionate with the characters whose lives he examines.  Thus, he offers a glimpse of the slums - full of love, ambition, corruption, greed, and despair - in a manner that many of us would never know otherwise.<br />Many compare or try to compare this kind of honest look at the rougher side of London with Dickens.  However, it is important to note that Dickens tended to idealize poverty and always brought things to a hopeful, positive ending.  Gissing does no such thing.  Though an educated man, Gissing himself suffered cruelly from poverty and mixed with these classes as he struggled to support himself as an author (see &quot;New Grub Street&quot;).  Thus, he has no idealist views of poverty and simplistic lives.  <br />Additionally, Gissing has a penchant for realistic storylines.  It is unnerving to read his books, actually, because you can't rest on the fact that he will work everything out nicely in the end.  In fact, he usually doesn't.  He is courageous enough to write true-to-life outcomes to very frustrating, dispiriting circumstances.  It is probably why he never became a popular author as readers often want happy endings - with a Ghost of Christmas Past if necessary - in order to relieve their consciences.  <br />All in all, another great work by Gissing.  He does get a bit preachy (even as he reveals the preachiness of others as futile), but that is easily overlooked.  The accurate historical glimpse of London that he gives is invaluable.  And I imagine that his brutally honest portrayal of life might speak to the impoverished among us today	2004-05-23
US	38074128	RI2006G2CNKAP	0345453743	458212829	The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the Funniest Series Ever!	When you've just finished a book that's as thick &amp; heavy as a dictionary, it is all too tempting to write pages and pages in review of it.  However, I will spare you as much as I can.  <br />The basic premise of the novels is that Ford Prefect is a hitchhiker and writer for \\"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.\\"  He hitches rides all around space, writes up his experiences and sends them in to his editors.  As the novel opens up, it's roughly 1980 in England, and he's been stuck on Earth for 15 years because Earth (as we know) has not really made contact with other planets and so he can't find a ride out of there (here).  In that time, he has made friends with Arthur Dent, one of the absolutely most endearing characters I've ever come across in literature (even more than a Hobbit). <br />When we first meet Dent, he thinks his greatest battle for the day will be to lie in front of the bulldozers which want to knock down his house.  Little does he know that Earth is also about to be knocked over (obliterated really) for a hyper-space by-pass.  Prefect, however, catches on and rescues Dent at the very last minute...Whether or not this was a good thing is up to the reader to decide.  <br />While Adams shows his literal genius for comedic timing and absurd humor within the bounds of Earth at the beginning, once he is freed of all constraints his writing style blazes with unique talent.  Every page is so filled with parody, dry wit, perfect timing, and mind-boggling fictitious science that it leaves you laughing aloud and reeling at the same time.  I realize that his humor is not for everyone...but for anyone who enjoys satire and for anyone who is frustrated with the insanity of life, this book brings the proverbial comic relief.<br />From what I've read from hard-core Douglas Adams fans (and there seem to be quite a few of those), books #1, 2, and 4 in this series are Adam's purest works. #3 and 5 are a bit heavier in tone.  #6 (Young Zaphod Plays It Safe) is simply baffling.  <br />For those who don't like science fiction, I would say that that shouldn't really be a problem here.  While Adams does invent some very funny alien races (like the race with 50 arms that was the only one to invent deodorant before the wheel), his focus clearly isn't imagining how different life can be.  Everything in his novels is a satire of humanity - from the bureaucracy to the androids to the laws of physics. <br />Of all the wonderful things I could dwell on in Adam's work, the last thing I would like to mention is that of all action/adventure stories I have ever read, I think Adams has created a few of the most realistic heroes.  Dent, Prefect, and Zaphod - though somewhat resourceful - aren't particularly strong, bold, courageous, intelligent or smooth.  They bungle any number of situations, and only Trillian has a real moment of brilliance.  And yet, no matter how much they might want to simply run and save their own hides, a sense of duty to man/life nags at their conscience and keeps bringing them to help save somebody.  Ultimately, I think this balances out so much of Adams ironic humor about how stupid life can be.  Yes, life is absurd at so many levels, but Adams never abandons our Western Civilization ideals of the value of life and our duty to help each other.  <br />Oh, and the dialogue is priceless!	2004-05-14
US	38074128	R3EQ3K37L141BJ	0517149257	458212829	The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide	Books	5	13	15	N	N	One of the Funniest Series Ever!	When you've just finished a book that's as thick &amp; heavy as a dictionary, it is all too tempting to write pages and pages in review of it.  However, I will spare you as much as I can.  <br />The basic premise of the novels is that Ford Prefect is a hitchhiker and writer for \\"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.\\"  He hitches rides all around space, writes up his experiences and sends them in to his editors.  As the novel opens up, it's roughly 1980 in England, and he's been stuck on Earth for 15 years because Earth (as we know) has not really made contact with other planets and so he can't find a ride out of there (here).  In that time, he has made friends with Arthur Dent, one of the absolutely most endearing characters I've ever come across in literature (even more than a Hobbit). <br />When we first meet Dent, he thinks his greatest battle for the day will be to lie in front of the bulldozers which want to knock down his house.  Little does he know that Earth is also about to be knocked over (obliterated really) for a hyper-space by-pass.  Prefect, however, catches on and rescues Dent at the very last minute...Whether or not this was a good thing is up to the reader to decide.  <br />While Adams shows his literal genius for comedic timing and absurd humor within the bounds of Earth at the beginning, once he is freed of all constraints his writing style blazes with unique talent.  Every page is so filled with parody, dry wit, perfect timing, and mind-boggling fictitious science that it leaves you laughing aloud and reeling at the same time.  I realize that his humor is not for everyone...but for anyone who enjoys satire and for anyone who is frustrated with the insanity of life, this book brings the proverbial comic relief.<br />From what I've read from hard-core Douglas Adams fans (and there seem to be quite a few of those), books #1, 2, and 4 in this series are Adam's purest works. #3 and 5 are a bit heavier in tone.  #6 (Young Zaphod Plays It Safe) is simply baffling.  <br />For those who don't like science fiction, I would say that that shouldn't really be a problem here.  While Adams does invent some very funny alien races (like the race with 50 arms that was the only one to invent deodorant before the wheel), his focus clearly isn't imagining how different life can be.  Everything in his novels is a satire of humanity - from the bureaucracy to the androids to the laws of physics. <br />Of all the wonderful things I could dwell on in Adam's work, the last thing I would like to mention is that of all action/adventure stories I have ever read, I think Adams has created a few of the most realistic heroes.  Dent, Prefect, and Zaphod - though somewhat resourceful - aren't particularly strong, bold, courageous, intelligent or smooth.  They bungle any number of situations, and only Trillian has a real moment of brilliance.  And yet, no matter how much they might want to simply run and save their own hides, a sense of duty to man/life nags at their conscience and keeps bringing them to help save somebody.  Ultimately, I think this balances out so much of Adams ironic humor about how stupid life can be.  Yes, life is absurd at so many levels, but Adams never abandons our Western Civilization ideals of the value of life and our duty to help each other.  <br />Oh, and the dialogue is priceless!	2004-05-14
US	38074128	R1G150ODEPZ511	0140430326	671551059	New Grub Street (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Insight  into the Victorian Writing/Publishing Scene	I'm beginning to realize that George Gissing is an author who is relatively unknown by the general public but who is frequently studied/referenced by academics.  The main reason why I think this is true (and this relates to the book at hand) is that Gissing himself had more of an academic temperament than a writing temperament.  He was very adept at analyzing the world around him and commenting on it to a point of depressing realism, but he wasn't a storyteller.  In fact, he struggled with creating enough storylines in order to support himself.  Thus, while his books give impressive looks at Victorian life, they don't always leave a reader fully satisfied.<br />Why do I say this so confidently?  Well, as Gissing was particularly self-aware and as he was particularly oppressed when writing &quot;New Grub Street,&quot; in this novel he writes about what it's like to be a writer in London in the 1880's and 1890's.  He essentially writes about his own life and those he find around him, all of whom are trying to make a living on writing.<br />Gissings seems to portray himself through the main character, Reardon.   When the story opens, Reardon is struggling.  His sophisticated wife is getting fed up with their impoverished lifestyle and with her husband's inability to write decent material.  Reardon, a sensitive soul, is floundering under mounting pressure and stress.  He is torn between his desire to write sophisticated, meaningful material and the public demand for &quot;fluff.&quot;  The more stressed laid on him, the less he is able to create and stick with any plausible fiction novel.  He becomes more and more fererish and unable to work, and he is devastated as he loses his wife's love and respect.<br />Around this central character Reardon, Gissing builds a very full and weighty cast of characters.  A small sampling of these characters are:<BR>- The embittered, older column writer/reviewer, Yule, whose temperament has made so many enemies during his career that heis still laboring hard to support his small family at the end of his life.  <BR>- Yule's daugher, Marion, who is very clever but who is also very vulnerable.  Her education has made her too good for many positions and marriages but her lack of money makes her a poor match for the educated class.<BR>- Reardon's friend Milvain, who is an ambitious young man who has no problem writing exactly what the masses want.  He knows his talents, he knows the market, and he knows his stuff won't last for posterity.  But he is determined to live a comfortable life, make a strategic marriage and become a semi-respected man.<BR>- Biffen, another friend of Reardon's, sympathizes most with Reardon's situation and condition.  Two peas in a pod, these men spend long hours discuss meter, prose and ancient poetry.<br />I found myself continually amazed at Gissing's amazing ability to get into the head of many individuals in his large cast and to see how the world makes sense through each's eyes.  Gissing also provides us with a wealth of information about the Victorian publishing scene.  It was amazing to read that writers and publishers then were struggling with the same issues writers and publishers are struggling with today.  <br />Additionally, Gissing gives you an unglorified look at poverty and the impoverished educated class of London at that time.  While Dickens' works on the poor is idyllic and sentimental, Gissing simply relates the life he has known.  There is nothing exceptional or amazing, and Gissing seems to argue that poverty takes character out of a man rather then build up a man's character.<br />Overall, I found this to be a fascinating piece...though perhaps a slow read.  For those interested in publishing, writing, realistic portrayals of Victorian England, or other such topics, this is a fantastic work.	2004-05-01
US	38074128	R1FFGZA8FICET8	1841952974	324088565	I'm Not Scared	Books	3	13	19	N	N	A Painful Read but Redeeming in Some Ways	I'm sorry to say that I will not be able to join the enthralled voices in reviewing this title.  This book is a book I never would have chosen to read on my own, and I only did so at the request of a friend.  That understood, here are my thoughts:<br />- The flow of the book was smooth and easy to read.<BR>- The suspense of plotline naturally drew me in, though that is one of the easiest (cheapest) ways to keep your readers interested.<BR>- The book is incredibly short with big words and alot of spacing.  Though it is 200 pages, I read it in  about 7 hours in one day, and I'm not a very fast reader.<BR>- The writer indulged in some unnecessary (I think) glimpses of children's explorations of sexuality.<BR>- The main character, Michele, is definitely endearing, especially with how he treats his sister, loves his parents and endangers himself in order to help in a disturbing situation.  The writer is adept at writing a realistic 9 year old boy's perspective.<BR>- The \\"disturbing situation\\" about the kidnapped boy Filipo is heart-wrenching.  Not only does the author capture the painfulness of the situation in a subtle, understated manner, he also explores the psychological suffering of all involved.  It's ugly, but it's an unfortunate reality.<BR>- One reviewer has commented on biblical themes.  While he has found some very specific parallels that didn't occur to me (except the Lazarus example the boy mentions), there is a quiet pervading sense of Providence that the author is kind enough to never destroy.  As the boy believes in God and as so many things are allowed to happen by \\"coincidence,\\" you get a sense of a providential hand guiding these poor young boys in overwhelming circumstances.<BR>- The end didn't bring much closure.  Some people don't like too much closure because it's not realistic.  However, in this case, all the writer would have to do is write a few more lines to let you know how things turn out.  After all I went through emotionally in this, I really feel like closure would have been merited.<BR>- I did not like the author's final treatment of Filipo.  I got the sense that Filipo didn't matter so much to him except as a tool for Michele's character development.  Such treatment of characters in desperate situations (though fictitious) seems like a sign of poor writting to me.<br />With all these factors taken together, I would rate this as a solid 3 stars (maybe 3.5 stars).	2004-05-01
US	38074128	R1G754Z8NVR296	0451410556	149763335	The Blue Last	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Proof that Grimes is More than a Mystery Writer	I will admit up front that I am not a hard-core mystery reader.  I read them in between other projects for a bit of respite.  My first choice for mysteries is Grimes because from her very first book, her clues were buried below the surface of rich characterization and commentary on life.  I absolutely adore her and her characters.  Well, I will say that she forces her metaphors a bit and she definitely dwells in a land of depression, precocious children and adults who aren't tied to desk jobs...but, who's perfect?<BR>  <BR>Lately, however, I sense that Grimes has been getting restless.  I'm sure she loves Jury and Plant and all, but she definitely hasn't been willing on cookie-cutter formulas for her success.  In this one, she opens up with the SAME chapter that I just read in 'The Man With a Load of Mischief' (her first novel).  Later on she quips (though Polly Praed I believe) that you can turn in the same old stuff to publishers and they'll never notice.  Her sharp, even cynical characters already show her tendency to see through the superfluous.  However, here you can just see her restlessness with her own success.  <br />For those who don't know, this particular story is involved with solving 3 mysteries to start with:<BR>- Is the woman calling herself Maisie Tyndale the true heir to the Tyndale fortune, or was the true Maisie killed along with her mother back in a backing in WWII?  If it isn't Maisie, did the nanny slip her own infant daughter into Maisie's place?<BR>- Who killed Simon Croft?  Was it someone in the closer-than-kin Tyndale family who is threatened by his research of WWII for his book?<BR>- Is Trueblood's panel a Massachio?  (No, honestly, this takes quite a bit of time.)<br />As usual, Grimes raises alot of red herrings and other mysteries before winding down to a close.  But in her surprise ending she asks of the audience the same questions that she's been asking of her characters throughout the book.  It's enough to drive a mystery fan nuts but also to leave you awed by Grimes' nerve.  While everyone who loves her would love for her to keep cranking out the Jury-and-Plant song-and-dance routine, Grimes does no such thing...	2004-04-19
US	38074128	RTOFXO5MP7P9Q	0451408683	597920549	The Case Has Altered	Books	3	13	14	N	N	I Got A Bit Lost in This One	I will admit that NOT ONLY have I NOT read all of Grimes' work, but that what I have read has been all out of order.  In her works before 2000, that didn't seem to matter too much.  There was some related themes between the books - like Viv's engagment to Count Dracula - but mostly reading her books in any order was fine.  <br />However, recently, there seems to be much more carryover between books.  To start, there's a growing list of women that Jury and/or Plant both 'love' - Vivian, Polly Praed, Ellen Taylor, Bea Slocum, and Jenny Kennington to start with.  Jenny Kennington was the focus of this one, but while apparently she is Jury's true love, I felt so detached because I had never read about her before.  There were many other such references that went over my head while new 'regulars' had been added that I didn't really know.<br />In addition to being ripped out of my comfortable old crowd at the 'Jack and Hammer,' I sometimes felt like I must have missed reading a couple of chapters in this book.  Grimes keeps referring to an event where Melrose searched all over for Jenny Kennington, and somehow this caused a problem with Jury.  At first I thought this referred back to another case in another book, but as the tale went on it seemed like it happened at some point in this book.  I was thoroughly confused.<br />For those who don't know, the main focus of the book is a double murder (one following the other by 2 weeks) out on the desolate fens of England.  One victim is of the minor movie star Vera Dunn, the vicious ex-wife of Max Owen, who owns the estate where Dunn was visiting when killed.  The other murder is of Owen's vegetable cook.  This young cook was a nosy unattractive girl whom everyone overlooked and forgot.  What motive could anyone possibly have to kill two such different woman?<br />My confusion aside, I still don't think this is one of Grimes' better efforts.  If you haven't read any of her books, certainly don't start here.  You'll appreciate itmore if you have developed an affinity the characters.  <br />If you have read Grimes, I would say that while I generally appreciate her trying new things, somehow this plot didn't fall together for her.  She makes this one different by letting Jury be vulnerable and, essentially, out of control. He is no longer the smooth operator one step ahead of everyone else.  However, something just didn't quite work here.  I saw her clues easily planted and solved the case well before the end (which I NEVER do).  It wasn't bad, and it was fun to reunite with Plant, Trueblood, etc., but I definitely prefer her other books more.	2004-04-19
US	38074128	R2O35EK8IQ0OL3	0451201191	393740026	A Murder is Announced (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Classic Agatha!	Like with \\"The Moving Finger,\\" this is a Christie mystery I read maybe 5 years ago and then picked up again just recently.  And, similar to that one, I somewhat remembered the solution to this mystery, though I couldn't remember nor ever quite reconfigure the logic behind it.<br />For those who don't know, this excellent mystery starts off with a murder being announced in the personal ads in the local village paper.  Somewhat akin to the irony of \\"Gross Pointe Blank\\" - where nobody believes that Cusack is a hitman because he states it directly - no one believes that a murder will really happen.  Who would advertise such a thing?  And so, in a predictable English manner, all the neighbors turn up - each insisting they just happened to drop by.<br />Thus begins a subtly humorous and mind-bending tale.  After reading a number of poor books lately, I have to say that it felt good to be back in Agatha's capable hands.  She develops a small pool of likable characters that you can keep track of...and never really trust.  She throws out red herrings galore and keeps you on your toes as you try to fit together the random jig saw piece clues handed to you.  Of course, Miss Marple is on to things fairly early, but will you be?<br />Of note in this particular Christie mystery:<br /> - In addition to Miss Marple, Christie develops a likable & capable if slightly lackluster inspector in Craddock.  I think it shows Christie's continued desire to mix things up and try new crime-solving combinations<br /> - The time period is right after WWII, and so you pick up on what life was like in Britain in that time period.  There is reference to food rations, Mittel European servants, reduced amounts of hired help, shifting of the population (even in small towns), an increased amount of suspicion with foreigners, etc.  It's all very interesting.<br /> - This is one of the few murder mysteries I remember with a real lack of rich/titles characters.  There are a few in the background, but they don't play in the main plot at all.  It was quite nice to read about working folks and their lives.<br /> - Christie sets up several foils with the number of middle aged women in the book.  I've never read a British novel where 3 main characters were weak minded (Bunch, Murgatroyd, and Dora), but Christie is able to develop each with distinction.  However, each woman's relation with a strong woman (Marple, Hinch and Blacky) makes for an interesting study.  (BTW - It is unclear if Murgatroyd and Hinch are a gay couple.  Certainly, it seems possible, but Christie doesn't focus on that.)don't play in the main plot at all.  It was quite nice to read about working folks and their lives.<br /> - Christie sets up several foils with the number of middle aged women in the book.  I've never read a British novel where 3 main characters were weak minded (Bunch, Murgatroyd, and Dora), but Christie is able to develop each with distinction.  However, each woman's relation with a strong woman (Marple, Hinch and Blacky) makes for an interesting study.  (BTW - It is unclear if Murgatroyd and Hinch are a gay couple.  Certainly, it seems possible, but Christie doesn't focus on that.)	2004-03-26
US	38074128	R2CFBUU0ZBBJ2X	1558686177	662896069	Culture Shock! Britain (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Poorly written but helpful...	I picked up this book awhile back as I was planning on visiting Britain (though not living there).  I just finished it yesterday and thought it was worth the notable effort to get through the book.  Particularly worth mentioning:<br />- The author does a good job of pointing out possible faux pas (asking seemingly harmless questions like &quot;Where do you live?&quot;) and non-issues (like how formally you dress).  He mentions some important social rules - like not speaking on public transportation, not making a scene anywhere, not bothering your waiter unnecessarily, expecting gruff answers at certain spots, etc.<br />- In the midst of colorful details and random accounts, you can  pick up helpful info - like tip 10% everywhere, the fog in Dickens/Holmes material was caused by the industrial revolution (and is now mostly gone), when restaurants/pubs tend to be open, etc.<br />- The author notes things that are changing with the times.  If you read alot of historical British works (even from the 40's) then you might have some outdated notions of the importance of a high accent or dress.  This is all clarified.<br />- Buried in the book is a rough history of England, history of the royal family, history of the government and historical places to see.  All these things were helpful, if somewhat poorly written and hard to keep track of.<br />- Overall the guide is very positive and laid back.  As such, I think you come away feeling relaxed and ready to engage this charming society.<br />- HOWEVER, the writing was poor - especially towards the end.  By this I mean that the sentences were hard to read, punctuation was haphazzard, alot of information was repeated several times over, and the overall organization was poor.  I kept thinking that there must be another way to get the same info across.<br />- Also, I found it very odd that for such a personal account (for that is what it is), you don't know alot about the author.  It wasn't until the very end that I realized that the author was from Singapore - which, of course - threw a whole new light on all the information about race &amp; discrimination &amp; his neurotic attempts to &quot;adapt.&quot;  This also explains why he kept using terms I didn't know; he was explaining the British terms some, but then used other terminology I didn't know, so I felt that I was no better off.  Finally, I'm not really sure if the author is a he or a she.  I use &quot;he&quot; but I'm not sure.  It's a little unnerving in this type of personalized narrative.	2004-03-24
US	38074128	R2MP0HF0XYO1QE	0192835955	132943002	Faust: Part One (Oxford World's Classic)	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Well Worth Reading - especially the extra notes!	I am very glad to have been exposed to this classic and am definitely pleased to have read this particular translation of it.  Though the rhythm was occasionally jarring (see review below), Luke's EXTENSIVE introduction (50 pages or so!) and explanatory notes helped me get so much out of this piece.  I received glimpses of insight on German history, the Germanic culture, witchcraft, superstition, how 18th century &quot;geniuses&quot; viewed Shakespeare, traditional church customs, etc.<br />For those who don't know, the basic premise of this story is based on a German folk legend.  In that legend from the 16th century, a learned man named Faust sold his soul to the Devil in order to gain more knowledge and understanding.  As that legend grew and became incorporated in the Germanic culture, so did its appeal to many artists.  There have been apparently many writers and such who have used this legend as a foundation for their works.<br />However, of all the Faust tales, Goethe's appears to be the preeminent one today.  Why?  Well, for one thing, he worked on this intermittantly from 1770 to 1808 with 3 main versions cited.  Goethe became quite famous for many of his other works, and this one apparently gives great insight to his personal philosophies at different stages.  Thus, many find it worth studying.<br />Also, as Goethe was a central figure in Germany's emergence from the Enlightenment era into the Romantic era, his work - and especially this piece - was celebrated by those trying to usher in a new way.  While the number of submovements is slightly tricky to keep track of, the main thrust is that the young intellectuals idolized Goethe and championed his cause.  His version of Faust became the source for many plays and even an opera which I think is still performed today.<br />But what about the tale itself?  Goethe certainly has a genius and it blooms in a novel way in this piece.  Though he left the Christian faith early on in life, he realized that the concepts of good, evil, sin, temptation, condemnation to hell, hedonism, etc. all had a dramatic weight to them that was irresistable to his as an artist.  Thus, as he developed this piece, he leaned heavily on the faith, superstition and legends of his day in order to weave this tale.  As such, you get a wonderful, power tale that gives you a great - though somewhat twisted - picture of the Germanic culture of his time.<br />HOWEVER, Goethe does some really odd things as well.  For instance, as he added to this piece over the years, he often didn't change much of the former material.  Therefore, in the piece there are many internal contradictions and dangling references.  In addition, he tended to throw in verses he developed for other purposes - such as one of the prologues and the &quot;Walpurgis Night Dream&quot; scenario - which don't technically have anything to do with the storyline.  Even his whole focus on Gretchen - while generally the focus of most plays and operas - actually wasn't a part of the original Faust legened.  And yet, it all worked together somehow and was a delight to read.<br />All in all, I think reading this short, weighty classic was well worth the time.  It helped add a piece of understanding about Euporean thought and culture 200 years ago as well as speak some to my own life.	2004-03-21
US	38074128	R1HC1MYF9RZSJ5	0451201167	998599484	The Moving Finger (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	My Favorite Christie Mystery!	I read almost all of Christie's books at one point 4 or 5 years ago.  One of the last I hit upon was &quot;The Moving Finger&quot;, and it turned out to be my favorite Christie mystery.  I loved the main narrator - Jerry Burton; his neurosis, wit, simplistic arrogance and ultimately good heart were so novel to me, especially in a murder mystery.  He was a breath of fresh air from the likes of Miss Marple and Poirot.<br />These many years later, I picked up the title again to see what I thought.  I see now that the narrator reminds me in some ways of Grimes' main characters for her murder mysteries - intelligent, reserved, seemingly aloof, somewhat cynical, and ultimately kind bachelors written by females authors.  Apparently I find this character irresistable as I love all of Grimes' work.<br />However, in going back and rereading some Grimes and some Christie, I am noticing how different their styles are.  While I read Grimes' books the first time only 2 or 3 years ago, I find I can't remember the solution to her mysteries when I reread them because she buries her clues below a rich surface of character development.  Christie, on the other hand, doesn't ever wander far from her murder mystery plot - no matter how much she may twist and turn it; and as soon as I started into this book I thought, &quot;Oh, ______ did it&quot;.  Even so, I enjoyed reading this little gem again.<br />That all said, in addition to having a neurotic narrator - which you may or may not enjoy - this mystery focuses on the reactions in a small country village as racy anonymous letters are received by everyone in town.  Jerry Burton, the narrator, and his sister arrive from London for some needed R&amp;R right about when these letters start becoming known and so are drawn in to the town's little scandal.<br />While Christie expounds on the psychology of those who write such notes, you have to watch all the details of the case.  Like the murderer, Christie is masterful at getting you to focuson the wrong things...and then surprising you with the obvious solution.  Very well done and a tribute to her uncanny gift of creating puzzles and then solving them for you.	2004-03-15
US	38074128	RIUN67FJLP67Y	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	4	4	6	N	N	For Lewis fans and non-Lewis fans alike...	As  I have confessed before, I am not a huge fan of CS Lewis.  To be more accurate, however, I am not a fan of the Lewis phenomena.  Lewis was an admirable man with many gifts.  However, I don't think he was the beacon of truth that many have made him out to be.  He had an amazing ability to dissect weighty issues with clear-headed thinking, but I have often felt that he didn't understand the depth, complexity and irrationality that creates the tapestry of humanity.  That is, until after the loss of his wife Joy and several other disappoinments in his life.<br />In reading this book, then, I was trying to sharpen my own understanding of his transformation at the end of his life.  It was, honestly, very refreshing to read a Lewis who was shaken.  Rather than everything being obvious and clear to him, Lewis keeps wrestling with himself at the difficult intersection of faith, emotions and logic.  As he would come to one conclusion or resolution during one entry, his next journal entry would inevitably dismiss all he had previously written as he would chastise himself and try to make further sense of things.  Thus, for anyone who has been cautious of Lewis for the same reasons as I have, this book will give you the human glimpse of him that perhaps you were waiting for.<br />However, I think a Lewis fan would appreciate this work as well, though for very different reasons.  If one is a Lewis fan, I would guess that one enjoys his intellectual approach to all issues.  Rather than ever let himself just grieve or be emotional or ride out the storm, Lewis takes on the grieving process in a similar way as he has taken on all problems - with honesty, scrutiny and expectation that a solution can be found.<br />On a personal note, I lost three family members in the past year, and learned first hand how long, painful and unexpected the grieving process can be.  If you've never gone through it, then you may not understand how it can shake you to the core - even if you think you have a strong faith.  Thus, in, around and through all other criticism I may have of Lewis, I do appreciate Lewis' willingness to publish his account which will likely help validate the spiritual journey of many mourners.  (For, thanks to the Lewis phenomena, if Lewis went through it, then it's OK to go through.)	2004-03-04
US	38074128	R3T5JCY43KM67C	0345391837	458212829	So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Great Escape to...Our Own Planet!	Oh, Douglas Adams!  What humor!  It's been a really really long time since I read him, and I honestly don't remember which books in the Hitch-Hiker trilogy I've read.  However, I recently picked up &quot;So Long, and Thanks...&quot; without much trouble.  I knew I was missing some references and character development, but it seemed like I could gather enough threads in this random plot to get a gist of his story.<br />The basic idea of &quot;So Long, and Thanks...&quot; is that Ford Prefect and Arthur Dent both suddenly realize that earth still appears to exist - even though last they knew it was to be demolished for a hyper-space bypass.  Neither understands, but both hitch-hike their way back there (er, here) to check it out.<br />While Prefect gets hung up along the way nabbing free meals, fighting aliens, and setting up inane pranks, Dent makes it back to England fairly quickly.  As he walks towards his home, which he hasn't been to in roughly 8 years and a bizillion miles, he hears the phone ringing and so rushes into his house to get it.  Just as he picks up the receiver, it stops ringing.  And so begins his adventures back on his own planet.<br />From there, you roughly stay with Dent as he settles back in on eart, falls in love, and reconciles the past 30 years of his life.  He meets Wonko the Sane, who really does seem quite sane, and learns what happened to all the dolphins.  He finishes this installment with a journey to see God's final message to his creation.  It probably took guts for Adams to come up with something that's supposed to be God's final message, but he pulls it off quite well.<br />Overall, I would say that Adam's story-telling nature seems to be so erratic, so creative, so outside the normal bounds that you get transported to another dimension in reading his work.  Even though most of this story takes place on earth, you begin to see physics, dolphins and junk mail in a whole new light.  You feel witty just catching on to his allusions and subtle writing quirks.  For instance, <BR>     &quot;[&quot;The Hitch Hiker's Guide&quot;] is, essentially, as the title implies, a guide book.  The problem is, or rather one of the problems, for there are many, a sizeable proportion of which are continually clogging up the civil, commercial and criminal courts in all areas of the Galaxy, and especially, where possibly, the more corrupt ones, this.  <BR>     The previous sentence makes sense.  That is not the problem.  The problem is: Change.  Read it through again and you will get it.  The Galaxy is a rapidly changing place...&quot;<br />If you are looking for a good laugh and/or a good escape that essentially deals with the questions of your own world, this book would be a good fit.	2004-02-29
US	38074128	R27O60XOWE4NWE	0451410815	76827191	The Man with a Load of Mischief	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Beginning of a Beautiful Thing...	I have read maybe 10 or 12 of Grime's Jury/Plant mysteries in no particular order, and I loved every single one of them.  However, I was quite surprised this year that I have been able to reread 2 of them so far (&quot;The Old Silent&quot; and &quot;Man With a Load of Mischief&quot;) and enjoy them as much as the first time!  The humor and her perfect timing are as fresh the 2nd time around, and I had honestly forgotten many of her subtle clues.<br />For anyone new to Grimes, she is an absolutely masterful mystery writer.  What sets her apart is her focus on a pair of sharp, witty, handsome and ultimately vulnerable 40 year old bachelors, Jury and Plant.  Jury and Plant are so endearing in their development - as opposed to a Poroit or Holmes - that you wish you actually knew them or people like them.  In fact, you feel like you do know them.  Their surrounding cast of characters - Lady Ardry, Vivian, Trueblood, Scroggs, Withersby, Wiggins, Fiona, Mrs. Wasserman, Racer - all heighten your appreciation of the main characters.<br />In this particular book, the first in the series, you get to see Grimes set the stage with all these characters.  How does Jury (an inspector with the New Scotland Yard) ever hook up with Plant (a part-time professor who gave up his titles years ago)?  Why is Trueblood in Long Pidd?  What is Plant and Vivian's history?  How do you pronounce Ruthven?  What is the deal with the names of pubs in England (a central theme for Grimes)?<br />The basic plotline in this book is that 2 men - strangers to the small village of Long Pidd - have been strangled and left to be discovered in very odd ways.  The reason for their murders is so obscure that Scotland Yard gets brought in to help out.  After Jury arrives on the scene, however, the murders don't stop.  What is the connection between these random people?  Will the entire population of the small town be killed off before the murderer is found?  Will Jury and Plant become good friends? All these questions are answered as Grimes also masterfully laces her humorous storyline with clues and names that point to solution of these mysterious murders.	2004-02-29
US	38074128	R1Q51RPU0A0YSR	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	I Love a Book with Controversy!	This is one of those great pieces that really divides the audience.  If you read fellow reviewers' comments, one says that no-one should rate this below 4 stars while another says no-one should rate it above 1 star.  Some people admit they don't get it, some people say there is nothing to get, and some dive deep into Joyce's world.  What a gift!<br />For my own thoughts...as I rate it, I think I need to rate it more as a piece of art rather than a typical piece of literature.  When I review literature, I consider character development, plot development, narrator's voice,  story-telling ability,  etc.  With Joyce, he shows you so much and tells you so little, that it's really hard to nail alot of facts down.  How old is he in the beginning?  How many siblings did he have?  Did he have a crush on the same girl throughout the book?  Why did Dante have 2 brushes?  What exactly caused his father's fall?  There is just so much information that Joyce doesn't bother telling you.  It's like the opposite of watching &quot;The Wonder Years&quot; or &quot;Scrubs&quot; where you get a play-by-play account of the action and a foreshadowing of what was to come.<br />At first I was very unnerved by his approach.  I like to have a groundwork laid, and I didn't even know how old Dedalus was when the book started (I had trouble translating the Irish school system to an equivalent year here).  However, the world as seen through an intelligent but vulnerable and geeky boy was fascinating.  I loved the vivid accounts as seen by a child with no attempt to correct or add to this perspective by some adult voice.<br />As the story progresses, Joyce skips through time, apparently selecting important scenes in his young life.  But he doesn't tell you they are important.  He just shows them to you, like flipping through a picture book.  He leaves you to draw up your own conclusions.  If nothing else, it was clear that Dedalus (representing Joyce) was on a tough track.  He had an artist's temperament even early on (emotionaly, extreme, caught within himself), but as his family slipped into poverty such a nature would be harder and harder to accept.<br />By about the middle of the book, I became completely enraptured with his use of metaphors...the images are so lovely, so perfect, so unforced that it hardly seems right to compare them with the crude, simple, ignoble ones I run into so often in literature.  This mastery of words thrilled my soul, regardless of the plotline and character development; in this way, it was more like music than literature.<br />By the end I saw a clear progression of Dedalus' character, as is well described in the 2nd spotlight review.  Not only does the complexity of the writing increase as Dedalus grows older, but his characater evolves as he tests the water in many arenas.  He has gone from a pretentious child who is so vulnerable because he has no outlet and no understanding of how he is different to one who can dialog with the masters (Aristotle, Aquinas, Augustine, etc).  He has found a home in academia and a vocabularly to express his inner worlds.  He made not have found peace yet, but he has found that he has a place in this world.<br />However, again, I would say that the understanding you gain is more like that of glimpses gained through art than through literature.  I don't know that I could ever fully understand everything he was talking about, why he was talking about, who he was referring to, etc.  Therefore, I rate this highly as a masterful artistic rendering of a coming-of-age story.  If you are looking for a clear fiction or biography, however, this might not be for you.	2004-02-21
US	38074128	R3AZ5W99HT2817	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	It Baptized My Imagination...	CS Lewis said that an author (I believe it was George MacDonald) baptized his imagination to goodness well before he was ready to understand it.  In looking back over my life, I would have to say that L'Engle did the same for me with this title.  Except, my mind wasn't opened up to goodness as much as it was to extraordinary - as in things outside of everyday  life as I knew it in 6th grade.<br />I recently re-read the title and was reminded of how gripping her story was for me when I was young.  L'Engle starts you off with a lovable odd-ball, Meg.  She then adds a beautiful scientist of a mother, perfect identical younger twin brothers, a genius little toddler brother (Charles Wallace) and a mysteriously missing father.  However, before you ever settle down into a rut of resolving family baggage and self-esteem issues, L'Engle starts adding her real magic - Mrs. Whatsit arriving in the middle of a horrific storm, the star basketball player (Calvin) with special gifts, the concept of tessering, and a quest to find the father.<br />Soon L'Engle leaves behind the constrictions of earth as we know it and clearly enjoys her space adventure - bringing along Meg, Calvin, Charles Wallace and the reader as she goes.  She stops briefly & humorously on a 2 dimentional planet, which blew my mind as a child.  Then she stopped on a planet in Orion's belt, which made my year because I could locate that in the sky.<br />Then she moved on to perhaps her most staggering concept in the book - the planet of Camazotz.  In Camazotz, everything is exactly the same, everything is perfectly timed, and nobody goes against the rules.  If you somehow step out of line, even accidentally, \\"It\\" will get you...and the thought terrifies everyone on the planet.<br />While I was too young at the age of 11 to understand all the possible loaded significance of Camazotz & It (which can range from \\"the norm\\", societal expectations, the vitality that comes with individuality to different political systems and even hell itself), this image stayed at the front of my ever since I read it.  Innumerable times, as I wrestled with more and more adult concepts, this parallel world came to mind.  In truth, L'Engle gave me models as a child that I could understand as a child but that grew with me as I grew.  That is a true gift that I have rarely received from other authors.<br />In another example of how she crafted concepts that have stayed with me, at the very end, she adds a planet where there are these wonderful, majestic beings...but they can not see.  Meg struggles to explain sight to them and only partially suceeds.  Since  that early age, I have spent years trying to think of how I would explain sight to a completely blind person.  The seed planted at an early age blossomed again and again into awareness of living in this world but experiencing it completely differently.<br />It is true that when I read this title recently, the characters are a bit simplistic compared with some of the great adult masterpieces.  However, if you read L'Engle's titles for adults (and she has many...most of which are NOT sci-fi), then you will learn that she is quite capable of exploring the complexities of the adult world.  However, I think she has appropriately created slightly more simple characters that will stretch a child without overwhelming him.<br />L'Engle also brings in weighty messages about love, hate, the power of darkness and the power of light.  These are messages that pierced me much more so as an adult than as a child.  This is where she adds a layer of depth that is beautiful in is wholeness...and her idea of how stars are \\"born\\" nearly brought me to tears.<br />I can't say enough about this title and the potential impact it can make on countless children...and adults.  Read it today if you haven't yet!!!ems and even hell itself), this image stayed at the front of my ever since I read it.  Innumerable times, as I wrestled with more and more adult concepts, this parallel world came to mind.  In truth, L'Engle gave me models as a child that I could understand as a child but that grew with me as I grew.  That is a true gift that I have rarely received from other authors.<br />In another example of how she crafted concepts that have stayed with me, at the very end, she adds a planet where there are these wonderful, majestic beings...but they can not see.  Meg struggles to explain sight to them and only partially suceeds.  Since  that early age, I have spent years trying to think of how I would explain sight to a completely blind person.  The seed planted at an early age blossomed again and again into awareness of living in this world but experiencing it completely differently.<br />It is true that when I read this title recently, the characters are a bit simplistic compared with some of the great adult masterpieces.  However, if you read L'Engle's titles for adults (and she has many...most of which are NOT sci-fi), then you will learn that she is quite capable of exploring the complexities of the adult world.  However, I think she has appropriately created slightly more simple characters that will stretch a child without overwhelming him.<br />L'Engle also brings in weighty messages about love, hate, the power of darkness and the power of light.  These are messages that pierced me much more so as an adult than as a child.  This is where she adds a layer of depth that is beautiful in is wholeness...and her idea of how stars are \\"born\\" nearly brought me to tears.<br />I can't say enough about this title and the potential impact it can make on countless children...and adults.  Read it today if you haven't yet!!!	2004-02-11
US	38074128	R2AQWBHN6M23IH	014025448X	813188609	At Home in Mitford	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Charming escapism...if that's what you like.	Well, I've about Mitford for years from my friends, and I finally got to sit down and read the first one.  If I were to rate this book against all literature, I would give it 3 stars at best.  Everything is too crafted, manipulated and unreal.  People will argue that it's full of the &quot;real world&quot;: people get sick, people die, people are lonely, there is theft, there are mean people, there are homeless people, there are drugs.  Yes, but the story is never really concerned with delving into the realities of these things - instead, each is simply a burden on weary yet loving pastor and so he prays about it.  And everything works out to the perfect ending. <br />I think Karon's main purpose is to try to craft a world where things go wrong but you can see God moving and so hope is restored.  Scripture, prayer and evangelical &quot;answers&quot; to life fill the pages.  And, though not bad, Karon's proposed solutions for the world are like bandaids lightly resting of top.  She numbs the mind with pleasure, but she does not stir in the dark depths of each of us and address the realities there.  Authors such as Dostoyevski, Tolkien, and Lewis are better at bringing forth a powerful and penetrating hope in the face of the worst evils.  Karon's work is trite by comparison.<br />However, understanding that this book is more about escapism than it is about real life, I will say that she does a good job with this.  She is a good writer and fairly engaging story teller.  She develops a cast of characters that become alive for you - the pastor, the grocer, the grill owner, the vet, the housekeeper, the tough boy, the dog, the doctor.  The one really weak character was Emma.  <br />The one real criticism I have (on a lighter level) is that the cast of characters is too large - with Karon usually assuming you can keep track of them all.  It was like reading a Russian novel, but without the index to refer to.  After awhile, I gave up trying to figure out who all the extraneous people were, and this - unfortunately - meant that I was less involved in the story and didn't care as much as the pages went on.<br />I'm sorry that this review sticks out like a sore thumb among the raving reviews.  As far as escapist literature goes (and we all have a preference - whether mysteries, horror, romance, whatever), this is a worthy endeadvor.	2004-02-06
US	38074128	R3L5PVEA4AH8II	0849942195	252517342	The Island of Heavenly Daze (Heavenly Daze Series #1)	Books	2	13	19	N	N	My First 2 Star Rating...	I hate to be the party pooper, but I really could not get into this book.  When my friends heavily recommended it to me, I thought a nice fluffy book (as they described it) would be a nice break.  However this book never really rose to what it's potential might have been (in my opinion).<br />In a nutshell, my criticisms are this:<BR> - It was poorly written.  The book simply dragged, and I forced my way through it hoping that it would pick up at some point.  When it did, it was a whole new set of characters (the Annie &amp; Olivia story), and I had trouble getting into them.  <BR> - This brings me to my second point: The plot is incredibly choppy.  You start with a huge focus on the pastor and then move for most of the book to focus on Annie &amp; Olivia.  Then, at the end, you switch back to the pastor.  My guess was that one writer took one subplot and one took the other, but it would have been easier to care about the characters &amp; their issues if they were developed throughout.<BR>  - There was a sloppiness about details in the town and the storyline.  Sometimes I would start picturing one thing in my mind only to have a dog or a person or something in a completely different place than I had been led to believe.  I think because of the two authors, no one took full responsibility for solid development of the town, places, or even character details.  <BR>  - Only the main characters were really developed.  Again, I think each writer focused on her subplot, and that left alot of the town as one-dimensional characters valuable only as a stereotype against which the main characters play off.<BR>  - Lastly, I think I would have cried if any more cliche evangelical sayings, promises, prayers, etc. were shoved down my throat.  If you want to write a fluffy, funny story with quirky characters then go ahead...but don't use it to be preachy because there isn't enough meat there to really speak to real life.  Instead, I got the sense that the authors created each scenewith their punch-line sermon in mind...it was all too manipulated to have any poignancy.<br />However, for what it's worth, I did appreciate 2 things:<BR>1.  The inclusion of the angels was creative.  When I heard the plot, I truly dreamed up great &amp; amusing potential for this book.  <BR>2.  I appreciated a mid-life crisis type pastor who wasn't really endearing.  In most Christian fiction, you seem to run into the same characters over and over, but he was new...and believable.	2004-01-25
US	38074128	R35MC7YFIZCCBJ	0374228051	402714474	The Other Side of the Sun	Books	5	23	24	N	N	L'Engle at Her Sharpest!	I think L'Engle touches...even caresses...a special nerve in those of us who become her lifelong fans. She touched my imagination when I was just 10 years old as I read \\"A Wrinkle in Time.\\" Her image of Camazotz has stayed solidly at the front of my mind ever since, and I have enjoyed dipping into her well throughout the years to meet more characters, to travel to new cultures, to have new adventures, and to silently cheer on many as they come of age.<br />That all said, and as many other reviewers have said, this book IS DIFFERENT!!! In this story, L'Engle makes some very heavy points through very beautiful but sometimes dark mediums. At first, the story seems ordinary enough as an English bride, Stella, moves in with her husband's family down in the south at the turn of the century. But even as you meet the cast, you have premonitions that this tale might not flow as nicely as some of her other works. There is a darkness to the people that takes away even from the amusing eccentricities of the family.<br />As the story builds - bringing in the frightening power of the KKK and of the African-American demon worshippers - you continually fear for this incredibly vulnerable English girl. While Stella is able to find some comfort in the journals of a long-deceased relative named Mado, you wonder where she can turn for help as she unintentionally stirs up a very dark hornet's nest. You know Honoria, the \\"maid\\", is a spiritual powerhouse, but is she strong enough? Will Stella's husband come back in time? Will anyone else intervene for her?<br />Via this very difficult set of circumstances, L'Engle is attempting to prove out Mado's point that only when love has had to go through the burning of the sun is it pure. Before it goes through such fire, it is filled with impurities and deception. But who has the courage to undergo such trials? L'Engle's characters - especially Honoria and Mado - give one courage. And, throughout this book, L'Engle brings in small poems that pierce the heart. I'm not usually much of one for poetry, but I copied these into my journals as keep-sakes.<br />A must-read for every L'Engle fan and for anyone who is looking for a book to take you a bit out of your comfort zone.ierce the heart. I'm not usually much of one for poetry, but I copied these into my journals as keep-sakes. <br />A must-read for every L'Engle fan and for anyone who is looking for a book to take you a bit out of your comfort zone.	2004-01-21
US	38074128	RZAGJ83BJPVWU	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Bit of a Let Down	It is rare that a novel completely throws me off balance.  I enjoy the random imagery, scenery and cast of characters from a wide variety of authors...but, after awhile, with so many authors copying so many other authors' works (even unintentionally), you begin to see shades of the same story over and over.<br />That said, I was shocked in a wonderful way when I first picked up this book.  While the narrator/main character admits that he is a dud, he is a very believable and likeable dud.  Even moreso, he plays a great straight man to the irresistable character of Owen Meany, who is a short little mastermind with a high-pitched voice and gets passed around his Sunday School class whenever the teacher leaves.  Irving has an incredible gift at making you laugh, even out loud, at the absurdity of the situations in this small New Hampshire town as the narrator and Owen grow up together.<br />As the narrator flashes to glimpses of his current adult life, the humor is still really enjoyable and poignant.  He rants about how much he hates America while living in Canada.  And the Canadian folk kindly ask if he hates America so much why doesn't he forget about it and learn more about Canada.  Instead he proceeds to get lost every time he goes out the door...this is a classic example where the humor is phenomenal, but the psychological subject he broaches beneath the surface is worth considering.<br />In fact, this is far from a light tale.  I wouldn't say that Irving ever digs down deep &amp; explores the well of human experience and emotion in full...mostly because he handles even the darkest moments in an off-hand manner or with the withdrawn perspective of his future self.  However, he does touch on many a difficult subject - including death, supposed destiny, visions, lust, adolescent temptations, lechery within the church, rejection, etc.  Because of these themes, which form the backbone of the tale, you enjoy his delightful humor with constant suspicion of where he will go next.<br />All this said, I was incredibly disappointed in the ending.  So disappointed that my rating has dropped to 3 stars.  Throughout the book Irving develops some strange themes - such as their basketball &quot;shot&quot; and armless beings - to an obsessive level.  But this works seeing that the tale is so neurotic in nature.  However, with the ending, Irving tries to tie in all these random threads to a supposedly poignant scene where everything makes sense and falls in place.  It's kinda like the moment in &quot;Signs&quot; where Gibson's character finally understands the &quot;meaning&quot; and &quot;purpose&quot; for the quirks of his kids.  Quite honestly, it's the moment many of us search for when we wonder why such-and-such happened in our life, or why did so-and-so have to die.  We want answers and purpose in a life that seems so aimless.<br />However, as with &quot;Signs&quot;, I agree with the PW review that Irving's climatic moment is weak and forced.  Things don't tie together as they should.  The moment seems overly simplistic considering how many years, events and lives have been building to this point.  It leaves more questions than it brings assurance, especially as NOTHING falls in place for the dud main character.<br />It's not that I personally don't think that there are reasons and purpose behind much of the pain and happenings in our life.  However, I think when the purpose is ever glimpsed at, the answer revealed is so complex, hits on so many levels, affects so many lives, and depends on so many &quot;coincidental&quot; events that it blows the mind.  Surely it is the work of a divine hand...a work that few authors can try to repeat in their stories, though some have suceeded.<br />In the end, Irvings glorious plot and character development seem like a waste because he was trying to use it all to force one point...and the point wasn't made very well and so everything else seems to be left dangling.  I was sorry to see the novel decline this way.	2004-01-21
US	38074128	R270J6RE9WRVJ6	0898708257	987395125	Tolkien: Man and Myth, a Literary Life	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A Very Full &amp; Readable Account	When choosing which biography to read on Tolkien, I chose this one because the author seemed to have great respect for Tolkien...so great that he was willing to take on the intelligentsia of England.  As Pearce explains, in 1997 a poll was done in England to see what the best books of the century were.  When &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; turned up on top, the literary critics all over England (as well as the professors) were up-in-arms.  They thought the craze for this work had come and gone.  They thought that Tolkien only had a small, cult-like remnant left to his following (Tolkien's official biographer being among these scoffers).  They condemned this work on many fronts.<br />And so another poll was taken...and another.  But, no matter who did the poll and how, &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; kept turning up on top.  What horrified the &quot;experts&quot; even more was that Tolkien himself was voted as the best author of the century.  What could possibly be contained in his works that led to such unanimous support from the people and such criticism from the experts?<br />That is what Pearce explores in this well-crafted biography.  And, if you like Tolkien, you have to admire Pearce's approach from the beginning.  He knew that Tolkien despised pop-psychology type biographies that tried to analyze an author's works based on his upbringing and life's events.  Thus, while giving a sketch of Tolkien's life, Pearce respects Tolkien's wishes to not be dissected psychologically.<br />Rather, Pearce took on the rather large task of helping laymen understand how Tolkien's faith - a particularly Catholic faith - influenced his writings.  When I first read &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; myself, I wondered how one man (Tolkien) could come up with all the depth expressed in this work.  (For instance, I was in awe of the depth of the idea that Sauron could never anticipate Frodo's journey to DESTROY the ring because Sauron was so evil that he couldn't anticipate selfless acts.)What Pearce helped me realize was that much of the depth came from Tolkien's reading the likes of St. Augustine and other church fathers.  I believe that Tolkien himself would say that he stood on the shoulders of Giants in order to get anywhere near the understanding he portrays.<br />In addition to such fascinating accounts of how Tolkien's faith manifests in his work, Pearce has a particular knack for addressing subjects that a reader would be curious about...without ever going too far.  In this book, he writes about such things as Tolkien's marriage, his work, his experience in WWI, his friendship with C.S. Lewis, his critics, and his advice to his son when his son was getting disillusioned with the church.  In all these things, Pearce gives you a full picture while retaining a delicacy for the the people involved.  <br />As someone who wanted an overview of Tolkien and an understanding of how his faith intersected with his life and work, I felt I had found the perfect source in Pearce's book.	2004-01-20
US	38074128	R3K66T3Q7YF7RS	0618009361	99535500	Farmer Giles of Ham : The Rise and Wonderful Adventures of Farmer Giles, Lord of Tame, Count of Worminghall, and King of the Little Kingdom	Books	4	5	6	N	N	More Insight into Tolkien...	As sevreal reviewers have already mentioned, this isn't Tolkien's deepest work.  If you are looking for depth, Lord of the Rings &amp; such are your best bet.  HOWEVER, if you are curious about the mind that created such great works as Lord of the Rings, then I think this tale can give you great insight.  <br />In this story, an ordinary though slightly short-tempered farmer is looked to as the savior of England due to an accidental but effective blow to a nearly blind &amp; certainly lost giant.  The king rewards him, and Giles is quite pleased...though the &quot;professional heroes&quot; of the time - the knights - are less than pleased with this amateur's success.  However, when another threat turns up in the form of a neurotic dragon, Giles is not thrilled with his &quot;duty&quot; to save the people.  The tale progress from here to its ironic, humorous, clever ending.  <br />As other reviewers have mentioned, this tale shows a lively, sharp wit...playing off turns of phrase, ironic situations and unlikely heroes.  However, the way such intelligence comes across seems as if Tolkien did this more for his own amusement than for impressing others.  Like with &quot;Roverandom&quot; and &quot;Father Christmas&quot;, Tolkien did not create this story for the public but rather for the private enjoyment of his sons.  <br />As you learn this, you realize that Tolkien's mind naturally gravited towards fantastical adventures that access far-distant lands and many sorts of mythical creatures...and that he enjoyed writing such tales for his own sake...not to show off.  He truly was an amazing man!	2004-01-20
US	38074128	R12AKAHEP3M5P6	0156904365	322831088	Till We Have Faces: A Myth Retold	Books	5	32	38	N	N	A Different Take on Lewis...	I have a confession to make...I am not a big fan of Lewis.  I think as far as  intelligent & clear-headed thinking - especially on difficult faith issues - he certainly had a gift.  However, I think he makes (made) things too black & white without a real, first-hand understanding of the strength of emotion, disillusionment, and difficult experiences when dealing with faith.  This is true at least until the end of his life when was \\"defeated\\" in theological debates by a female atheist, he married a divorced woman (something he had earlier condemned), and then he lost his wife tragically.  (The movie Shadowlands explores this marriage and its effects on him.)<br />These events rattled Lewis to the core, and for awhile he lost all confidence in his former theological proclaimations (except that God is good).  It is my understanding that Lewis wrote \\"Till We Have Faces\\" after this huge shake-up in his life.  This book represents an understanding he came to after almost all of his faith foundation had been smashed and he had to rebuild it.  And, I think, this new level of depth really manifests in this work.  While I'm not a fan of Lewis in general, I think this book is absolutely phenomenal.<br />What Lewis has done, as many reviewers have mentioned, is to retell the story of Cupid & Psyche.  And he chooses to tell it from the perspective of Psyche's older (and supposedly evil) sister Orual.  For the entire first part of the book (labelled Part I), Lewis takes you through a fantastic, confusing, emotional, biting story.  Unlike his simplistic themes in the Chronicals of Narnia, Lewis relates a very twisted account of love & jealousy through complex characters, relationships, and landscapes.  And as he does so, he allows the reader to become fully sympathetic to Orual and her position...even though she instigates some unfortunate situations.<br />However, while it is tempting with Lewis to draw trite lessons and observations, I encourage you to not do so.  I encourage you to let yourself be confused and wonder at the purpose at Part I.  For, in Part II he brings it all together very powerfully.  Not only does his explain the story, but I think he delivers one of the most disabling blows I've ever read in a novel.  I don't want to give away the ending, but Orual's own gasping revelation as she tries to justify her bitterness was simply phenomenal.  And, when considering Lewis' likely similar bitterness regarding his short-lived marriage, I feel that this all came directly from his heart.<br />A one-of-a-kind title that I would recommend to anyone willing to grasp with faith and potentially ugly revelations about ourslves.	2004-01-20
US	38074128	R216V3965K8PPH	0395898714	548440687	Roverandom	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Genius of Tolkien...	The genius of Tolkien - that of fantastical and wonderful story-telling - simply cannot be hidden!  Even while vacationing with his family, incidents there would provide inspiration for new tales.  When his son lost his toy dog on the beach, Tolkien started \\"Roverandom\\" as a comfort for his son...and so it became a tale that Tolkien grew, worked & reworked until it became the delightful, full, nostalgic piece that it is today.<br />The story starts off with a little dog playing with his yellow ball in his owner's backyard.  Suddenly, an old man appears, and he and the dog have a misunderstanding.  The old man turns out to be a wizzard, and so he turns the dog into a toy.  From there, your mind is constantly stimulated as Tolkien brings so many unexpected twists and turns to the story...from the dog's existence as a boy's toy dog to his trip to the moon over the sea to his adventures with the dog on the moon.<br />As with Tolkien's other works, the presence of wizzards is omnipresent and highly entertaining.  He has 3 dominant wizzards with very different personas and responsibilities.  Their eccentric, sometimes wise and easily-annoyed temperaments remind one of Gandalf...but these simplistic characters are just shades  of that great character.  Tolkien also explores such ideas as where we go when we dream and the special access children have to other dimensions but he does this with a light, exploratory tone...not at all with the serious convictions of some of his larger works. <br />In a similar way as \\"Farmer Giles of Ham\\", this wonderful tale helped give me some more insight into Tolkien's phenomenal mind.  While Lord of the Rings shows an untold depth to this man, these smaller stories show how he takes delight in comical, ironical, classical tales as well.  It seems that he naturally was drawn to worlds in which wizzards, giants, dragons, and pathways to the moon exist...and he had a true talent in relating these worlds to others.	2004-01-20
US	38074128	R15B0H4CYQ26DW	0140433791	828654613	The Odd Women (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	34	36	N	N	A Story That Speaks to Our Time	The other review posted and the editorial reviews do a much better job than I could in summarizing this story.  However, I would like to comment on its insight &amp; current applicability.<br />As mentioned, &quot;The Odd Women&quot; is about the women who don't get married for one reason or another.  In the Brittish Victorian era, there was still a strong stigma against such women...that their one true goal &amp; purpose in life is left unfulfilled.  You enter into this cultural assumption almost as soon as you pick up the book.  <br />What is new in this book was the very beginnings of the feminist uprising.  Women were starting to rebel against such unfortunate and uncontrollable circumstances in their lives.  And they began - out of financial considerations - to learn more masculine disciplines in order to make their own way in the world.  At first, you think that this is encouraging and will naturally lead to peace &amp; prosperity for the women...after a bit of struggle to raise the glass ceiling enough to get the women in the doorway.<br />I think where Gissing goes with the novel, however, is spectacular.  Rather than showing such ideal outcomes, Gissing shows through Monica's character that the issue of women having careers wasn't just a matter of training.  Women did not look to salvation through work.  Most secretly longed for marriage while they were being trained, and some couldn't even focus their minds enough to take in the education.  As shown through Monica's character, the women still would rather be trapped in loveless marriages than work.<br />In addition to developing this kink in the feminist plan, Gissing develops Rhoda's character in an even more dynamic manner.  His insight into her strict, stiff, uncaring manner was piercing.  He showed how her facad was based on her need to prove herself worthy in some manner; and this need rose from her not having received the attentions from a man.  By bringing a desirable man into her life, Rhoda's whole philosophical system breaks down.  The power struggle between these two is worth reading, even if a little masculine in its outcome.<br />In this way, Gissing continues to unveil how dependent these women's worlds still were on men.  Even if they didn't want to be...even if they didn't have the choice to be, an idealic philosophy alone could not change these women's most secret desires and nature.  It's a disturbing realization to behold.<br />But Gissing isn't degrading women.  His insight is penetrating...especially for a man of his times...but he balances out his story well.  He shows in a good way how a professor's long-awaited marriage helps him to become a much more fulfilled, well-rounded man.  And, though pathetic, Monica's husband is clearly lonely &amp; lost without a woman by his side.  Gissing shows the men in this tale to be completely as in need of women (and desirous of companionship with them) as the women are of men.<br />In this way, Gissing's revelations lead one to somber despair.  One realizes that the feminist uprising comes not out of a desire to truly work but out of an economic need and dignity of women for whom things did not work out.  The story is not one of an pioneering spirit but rather of resignation to how things don't always work out and how people slip through the cracks.<br />Thus, while the historical and sociological insight Gissing provides is invaluable, his story has much to say in our times as well...and he says in such a way that I don't think most would have the courage to now.	2004-01-16
US	38074128	R3U7OUQNZE12TH	0375701230	91189139	A Death in the Family	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Eerie Insight into Human Nature	Agee has done something utterly amazing through this lyrical, slow-moving work.  You often feel as if you moving through a dream - or, perhaps, a world running in slow motion where you can anticipate what will happen but you can't do anything to stop it.<br />As the book starts off, a boy is making a trip to town with his dad.  The boy worries about making his dad proud.  The dad worries about his boy's perception of him.  The dad is also incredibly lonely...and you begin to get attached to him, but you don't want to get too attached because you know he won't be around too much longer.  (My apologies if this ruins the story, but I'm pretty sure this is well known.)<br />As you become introduced to the rest of the characters, you realize that everyone is honorable (for the most part) and that their internal concerns &amp; worries just comes out of their being human.  For example, though the father is lonely, it's not because he has a horrible wife.  In fact, he has a wonderful wife...but he is trying to wade through the complexity of relationships, internal peace and life in general.  And so are all the characters.<br />The story progresses slowly, predictably, and you watch as the characters all act &amp; react in various ways.  Agee allows you to see the world through each character's eyes, and then how the world perceives that character.  This narrative style leaves you feeling compassionate for each member of the family whereas it would normally be easy to be annoyed with or dismissive of many of the characters.<br />It is also worth mentioning how honest and thoughtful Agee is in showing his characters' motivations and flaws.  When the little boy learns that his father has died, the loss completely goes over his head.  Instead, he tries to leverage this event for popularity from the schoolchildren.  &quot;Surely they will be nice to me today,&quot; he thinks.  <br />Later, when the mother kneels to pray, her aunt has amazing insight that the mother is praying not from her heart but rather from pride - praying what she thinks a holy woman would pray in such a circumstance.  Such commentary on our actions and motivations can hit a little close to home...but I believe it must have come from his own experience.  He never condemns his characters...he just lets them be fully human.<br />As I said in the beginning, I believe this work to be a true masterpiece.  Though I was often horrified by the true despairing picture he portrayed, my mind was also deeply impressed by the truth he conveyed.  And he does give hope, after his own fashion.	2004-01-16
US	38074128	R28L0TPZ4NTVJV	1881273768	479195671	Finding Your Million Dollar Mate	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Good Read...	I like the book &quot;million dollar mate.&quot;  It is encouraging to someone who is single with people getting married all around.  I would highly recommend it to anyone who isn't married, especially college age and beyond.  And, honestly, the more desperate the single, the more applicable this book.  The focus of this book is a nice change from the typical single young adult's fixation on the emotional side of being in love.  I will confidently go on secure in the knowledge that God has a plan for me and my future mate.  I now have a better idea of what I'm looking for, and who knows when that may come in useful.	2004-01-15
US	38074128	RTTDSYX4GGO89	0140433740	912187649	Apologia pro Vita Sua (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	25	30	N	N	Honest, Deep, Thought-Provoking...	When it comes to evaluating religious materials, I can tend to be a little critical, so please keep that in mind as you read this.  <br />As many have mentioned, this book is written as the defense of one man against the continual slander &amp; attacks he faced in England after he left the Anglican Church for the Catholic Church.  This defense of his life is credited with helping change the strong anti-Catholic sentiment in Britain.<br />In this country (USA) and at this time, it might be hard for us to many how intense &amp; how small the English culture was in the 1800's.  Sure, we've all read Victorian novels of some sort, but they usual focus on the genteel class &amp; on their match-making process.  O'Brian frequently mentions the bias against Catholics in his Master &amp; Commander series, but - even so - I wasn't prepared for how much impact one man could have on a culture.  The population was so small, the culture so homogenous, and the number of educated men so limited that Newman really succeeded in shaking up the people in his time.  In turn, they condemned him &amp; made his life somewhat difficult.  With the sheer number of religions &amp; faiths - not to mention famous people &amp; ploys for attention - in our current culture this story of Newman's likely will not be repeated in our culture any time soon.  It is a great look back into another culture, another time, another understanding of religion &amp; the norm.<br />As for the writing itself, I unfortunately don't have the same praise that I've read from others on this page.  I read the entire introduction, but I still was not well-suited enough (I guess) to pick up on the subtle personal revelations &amp; turns of phrase that were supposed to make this so lyrical.  He mentions many names, dates &amp; texts that are obscure, hard to keep track of &amp; generally irrelevant by the middle of the book.  In fiction this would be considered bad form, though I know it was incredibly effective for him to include for the audience he was writing for at the time.<br />Additionally, I thought perhaps he acted a bit like a person used to being indulged towards the end of the text.  It never crossed my mind until he kept going on for many pages about how tormented he was for years as he considered leaving the church.  Don't get me wrong, I have also struggled with faith questions so hard &amp; so long that I thought I would never come up for air.  But, the reality is, that I had to.  I had to get up for work.  I had to pay my bills.  I had responsibilities to my family &amp; friends.  Newman didn't have much on his plate during 1841-1845, when he wrestled most intensely.  <br />I also thought that Newman acted a bit indulged in that he often asked &quot;Why can't I have the privacy that most Englishmen are allowed while I wrestle with my faith&quot;  (paraphrased).  At first I was incredibly sympathetic to this man...being someone who enjoys privacy myself.  But then I began to think about his life as a whole.  When he was young, he was sure he had &quot;the answers&quot; - i.e. the way to correct doctrine - and that it was his God-given call to influence the rest of England.  He set about making himself a public figure...not that he wanted fame but that he felt he was someone who had the right &amp; need to show the way for those who are more ignorant.  Unfortunately for Newman, as he did more research, he learned that things were not as black-and-white as he originially claimed they were.  Slowly he began pulling back more &amp; more from the public spotlight...but he (and his movement) had made such a splash that the public naturally wanted to know where his approach to faith was leading him &amp; why.  If Newman had kept private about his convictions from the first, he would have been able to wrestle with them privately later...like any other Englishman.<br />That all said, I still do rate this title 4 stars.  First off, the sheer amount of psycholigical, socioligical&amp; religious information in this title is phenomenal.  Also, Newman is nothing if not sincere...which surfaces constantly as he follows truth where it leads him.  Such sincerity - showing where one has been wrong &amp; why - seems to be rare...especially among religious non-fiction titles.  Additionally, I think Newman wrote this for an incredibly suitable purpose.  It's one of the rare books that I think would have left a gaping hole if it weren't written...not only in defending Newman's decisions, but also in the tapestry of Christian faith.<br />Personally I also deeply empathized with Newman's roller-coaster ride.  For anyone who can tend to be zealous but perhaps also a bit impulsive or misguided, Newman's honesty, depth &amp; journey are all a salve for wounded pride.	2004-01-14
US	38074128	RROLOZGVL6983	0440204925	356373729	The Old Silent	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Full of wit, charm...and even a murder...	One of the reviewers mentioned that this might not be the best place to start in the Jury series.  This is probably true.  I had read 5, 6, maybe 7 of her books before I got to this one.  And that windup was great as I became absorbed into her characters, her tone, her plots, the atmosphere she creates.<br />For those who don't know Grimes, I think she is one of the true literary geniuses of our day.  Her books really aren't about the murder mystery itself.  Yes, that is the plotline that moves the story along, but neither I or she is overly worried with simply lining up the clues to solve the mystery.  <br />Rather, in each of her works, she displays before your eyes an English scene complete with its own set of quirkey characters - some old ones & always some news ones.  And through the circumstances she sets up in each novel, she makes a commentary on life & people as they respond to the various situations into which they are thrown. <br />In this way, Grimes reminds me of Agatha Christie...one of the great murder mystery writers.  I think Christie was more concerned with observing human nature & working it out on script than she was with the actual murder.  And the dry, ironic humor Grimes employs is similar to that of Christie itself.  If you are interested in such stories, Grimes is a fabulous writer to get hooked on.<br />If you have read several of Grimes' works & you have enjoyed them, then I think you are in for a treat with this one.  I don't think that her wit has ever been better.  Her comedic timing and various storylines - all with a somber plotline of murders setting the tone - kept me very entertained: <BR>- Plant is at his all-time best as he deal with children, animals, a tough NY woman, and his old aunt Agatha.  <BR>- Jury retains his smooth charm & competency all while hob-nobbing with an eclectic group that includes a hot band, band reviewers, the genteel class and eccentric old folks. <BR>- Malcavie is all that you hope of him as he pulls overspeeders on his way to crime scenes and continues to listen to Wiggens (of all people!)<BR>- The little girl in the book, Abby, is one of the coolest kids ever to appear in a murder mystery.<br />I will admit that I was thrown off a bit by the dogs' monologues.  It took me awhile to figure out what was going on there.  But I was glad Grimes was still trying new things.<br />So, there it is.  Another great work from Grimes!	2004-01-08
US	38074128	R1OVB8J37PGNP1	0609609831	466838124	Your Marketing Sucks	Books	3	54	58	N	N	Playing it safe...3 stars...	Wow.  I have never seen such bitterness about an Amazon product. There are some truly horrible products out there, I admit, but it looks like anyone who gives a positive review will get shot down 0 to 5 in the voting.  It makes one think...<br />As for my review, I'll play it safe with 3 stars.  I rated Mosquito Coast 3 stars too.  What does it mean?  It means I wouldn't go out of my way for it &amp; I didn't get a ton from it, but there was something about it to justify it's existence.<br />For those of you who haven't read and who haven't been prejudiced to a negative review, the author's basic concept is that marketing should fall under the business domain and not the &quot;artsy, creative domain&quot; that it usually does.  He makes a good point that your marketing should not be out there to win awards, and that more expensive (a la Super Bowl spots) doesn't mean better.  Instead, everything you do to promote a product or service - and it can be at a grass roots level - should reinforce each other.  I.e., your ads should tie to your website should tie to your publicity, etc.  And all this should increase sales.  If you don't increase your sales, your marketing sucks.<br />Now, it is true that the book is not an academic or even an intellectual book.  Do not come here to learn about marketing.  It's not even marketing 101.  It's basically written to people in marketing who are doing it wrong.  And, even if you think that this book is really simple, the reality that I've found is that most people in marketing really ARE doing it wrong.  So, if you are in marketing - especially if you haven't had much business exposure - then this may be a helpful read.<br />Now, I will say that this book is INCREDIBLY poorly written.  I think he spent 3 chapters winding you up to tell you what was inside.  While inside, he meandered through countless examples where he identified poor marketing.  And then he propels you to a final chapter that is fairly shallow &amp; unhelpful.  His advice that you should go on a retreat to absorb everything before you return to the office is a cute touch to make you think that there was alot to absorb.<br />I will say this though.  At the end of the book, you wonder how much of a marketing tool this book is for Stevens' company.  And you wonder what marketing tools he used to get so much hype for a book that isn't really worth it.  And you think perhaps he really does know what he's talking about even though he can't write very well.  It's kinda like looking at your reflection via 2 mirrors and seeing you look at your reflection via 2 mirrors who is looking at your reflection via...you get the picture.<br />My final word is that, in the long run, Stevens will be the big loser long-term whether the books sells well or not(unless he's exceedingly brilliant, which I am doubting at the moment).  He's a one-trick pony.  He may actually be a whiz at marketing consulting.  But with his shameless use of a crude title &amp; slogan to catch people's attention, he has also lowered himself on classiness pole enough that he probably will never be taken as a serious player in the business world.  He will never rule the roost.  He'll just help the rulers get more money...until some other irreverent upstart can do it better than he.	2004-01-07
US	38074128	R1HE2LPD4P0IR0	039330812X	878853693	Desolation Island (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Most Engaging O'Brian Book	Of all the books in the Aubrey-Maturin series, I definitely loved this one the most.  I read it in one weekend because I simply could not put the book down.  <br />In this work, O'Brian explores the response of the sailors under a set of difficult, discouraging circumstances - from an outbreak of deadly fever to being pursued by a much larger, deadlier enemy.  After all the strain &amp; stress on the sailors, the ultimate challenge comes as it appears that the ship is on the brink of sinking.  <br />Many of the sailors' courage &amp; honor warms your heart as you read feverishly in order to know whether or not they will survive.	2003-12-30
US	38074128	R2KE63F8XQZKD4	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	4	4	6	N	N	An Unlike Book from an Unlikely Source	I have recently read all 20 books of the Aubrey/Maturin series...<BR>and I think all 20 books are worth reading.  From my limited understanding, it appears that O'Brian is a historian and naturalist, in addition to being a writer.  Therefore, the action that happens in the books - especially the battles - are based on battles & events that really happened.  Additionally, O'Brian dispenses great knowledge about medicine, naturalism, culture, politics, sociology, sailor's lives, whaling, etc. without seeming to do so.  I think I learned more about the early 1800's from this book than from any other source.<br />As for the writing itself, I think O'Brian played with various styles throughout the series.  The first book, \\"Master & Commander\\" is a bit heavy on the technical, nautical detail.  His 2nd & 3rd books often reminded me of a Jane Austin novel as he swung the other way - towards romance & affairs on-shore.  However, by the 4th book, O'Brian seemed to find a readable, enjoyable balance between historical detail and character development.  But even throughout the rest of the series, he seems to play with different elements of story-telling.<br />The one trait I found almost unique to O'Brian is that he would develop is characters in the most unexpected manner.  He would pull characters out of the nameless faces on a ship & suddenly develop them for no particular reason.  On the flip side, you learn things in books 18 & 19 about characters you've been following since book 1.  And, additionally, towards the end of the series he completely abandons characters you have been following for books on end.  I don't necessarily like or dislike this trait of his, but I found it a rather unusual & amusing obstacle to deal with.<br />Overall, however, I am definitely a fan of O'Brian and of the recent movie.  If you are able to invest time in his work, I think you will be overjoyed by the returns.	2003-12-23
