US	38075043	RUQT52NZ1XTR7	0758208472	170734544	The Pregnancy Test	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Will touch your heart and tickle your funnybone!	Erin McCarthy shows off the range of her talent with this funny, steamy and poignant read.  Mandy Keeling knew it was time to grow up and start living off of her parents' money.  Lo and behold, nature was also trying to tell her something in the form of a pregnancy.  She realized that she had to find a job that would allow her to support her baby since she wasn't getting any help from the baby's father.  With the help of her friend Caroline, she lands a job interview with Damian Sharpton, an ogre of a boss whose already gone through four assistants in the last year.  Amidst a bit of drama involving a rather embarrassing encounter, Mandy lands the job without letting him know she's pregnant.  She manages to be a fabulous assistant while at the same time avoiding Damien like the plague.<br /><br />This intrigues Damien, who can't believe in the two months since he's hired her he's seen her only a few times.  Yet she manages to know him in a way he never expected, anticipating his needs and acting on them.  When he tries to exert his authority to regain control, it only ends up making him seem like an immature child, which ruefully amuses him.  So much so that he impulsively decides to bring her along on a trip to the Carribbean with the reasoning that it's business.  Mandy is reluctant to go, but he makes it mandatory so she can't refuse.<br /><br />Despite never seeing his secretary, he is attracted to her, albeit reluctantly so.  He begins to question his sanity at bringing her along, but learns to relax and even show his sense of humor.  As Mandy and Damien get to know each other, their already strong mutual attraction deepens, making it difficult to keep away from each other.  When an intimate moment presents itself, so does the opportunity to confess to Damien about her pregnancy.  When they finally kiss, it is as explosive as they imagined it would be, and things only get hotter from there.  Mandy's pregnant body fascinates Damien, who reads up on the topic and becomes the world's expert on pregnant women, with amusing results.  As their relationship grows, it becomes obviously how truly right they are for each other, and that they are already a family.<br /><br />Wow!  This book is fabulous.  Mandy and Damien are refreshingly honest and their physical intimacy is sexy and intense, the result of strong feelings for each other.  Mandy may seem to be young and irresponsible, but nothing means more to her than the well-being of her child, which she will do everything in her power to protect, and Damien is not the hard-nosed enployer he's made out to be.  Behind all those demands lays the heart of a vulnerable man who was hurt very badly but still has the capacity to love deeply.  He is a true tortured hero who longs for happiness.  The icing on the cake is Erin's unique brand of humor, which is truly laugh-out-loud funny.  I adored this story, and love how McCarthy's writing keeps getting better and better.pic and becomes the world's expert on pregnant women, with amusing results.  As their relationship grows, it becomes obviously how truly right they are for each other, and that they are already a family. <br /> <br />Wow!  This book is fabulous.  Mandy and Damien are refreshingly honest and their physical intimacy is sexy and intense, the result of strong feelings for each other.  Mandy may seem to be young and irresponsible, but nothing means more to her than the well-being of her child, which she will do everything in her power to protect, and Damien is not the hard-nosed enployer he's made out to be.  Behind all those demands lays the heart of a vulnerable man who was hurt very badly but still has the capacity to love deeply.  He is a true tortured hero who longs for happiness.  The icing on the cake is Erin's unique brand of humor, which is truly laugh-out-loud funny.  I adored this story, and love how McCarthy's writing keeps getting better and better.	2005-09-23
US	38075043	R2245J3H7CLGS1	0758212143	406716090	The Night Before Christmas	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Guaranteed to warm you up on those chilly winter nights!	White Knight Christmas by LF:Detective Parker Ross hates Christmas with a passion.  The last thing he needs is his neighbor Lily Donaldson to convince him otherwise.  Lily believes the holidays are a special time of year, thanks to people like Parker, who make the world a safer place.  Despite his best intentions, Parker can't resist the tempting and willing Lily, who warms his heart and heats his blood.  Lily is thrilled that Parker wants her, and is determined that with love and someone to share it with, Christmas really is the most wonderful time of the year.  Parker is a growling, sexy guy with a soft heart who will make you sigh with longing, and Lily is a sweet, intelligent and optimistic woman who believes in all the good in the world.  This story will bring a smile to your face.<br /><br />Snowed Under by EM: Claire Robbins is braving the usual cold and snowy elements while doing her Christmas shopping when a snowplow with a blind spot covers her from head to toe with freezing wet slush.  Seeking refuge and a hot shower, she hightails it over to her brother Derek's place, remembering his place is nearby and he's out of town for the holidays.  Fortunately she has a key.  Instead of an empty apartment, she find Derek's former co-worker and her eternal crush Justin Fairbanks camped out in front of the t.v.  She is mortified to have him see her in such a state, but resolves to use the situation to her advantage by seducing him.  She makes no secret of her intentions, and decides on the direct approach.  Justin feels guilty over his attraction Claire but can't deny that he wants her.  The holidays are all about giving, so how about they give each other?  McCarthy has created a heroine who know whats she wants and isn't afraid to go after it, and her hero is smart enough to know when to give up the fight.  Delightfully naughty and fun stuff.<br /><br />Ms. Humbug by JS: City Planner Cami Bennett is the anal type, unable to relax until all the items on her to-do list are completed and checked off, while Mayor Matt Tarino was a rule breaker who didn't have time for lists.  They've gone head to head over issues for years, always with the city's best interests at heart.  It was just a matter of time before the simmering attraction between them reaches critical meltdown, and it does, with a hot kiss that surprises the both of them.  This year, the spirit of Christmas brings together two passionate souls who bring out the best in each other and give each other something in return - the love of a lifetime.<br /><br />I'll Be Home For Christmas by KL: Rob Marsten is on his way to his family's house for the holidays when his flight is canceled due to bad weather and he is forced to find alternate transportation.  Already irritated that he agreed to the trip in the first place, he makes his way to the car rental place, intent on keeping to his tight schedule.  While negotiating with someone for the last remaining rental, he hears a voice he has never forgotten, one that belongs to his first love, Erica Fetzer.  Seeing her again is like stepping back in time - the strong feelings he once had for her rush to the surface until he can't remember why he let her go in the first place.  But Erica hasn't forgotten.  Rob had broken her heart, pursuing his career over a life together, and she was not about to let him back into her life so easily.  Can the spirit of the holidays and the meaning of Christmas bring these two lonely souls back together?  While I genuinely did like both Erica and Rob, I was a little put off by the harsh way he originally ended things, but ultimately I felt he learned his lesson - that success is not so important if love is missing.<br /><br />Seducing Scrooge by KG: Krista Miller knew there was more to serious Jackson Peters than reports and numbers - all she had to do was convince him of that.  Kidnapping him for an afternoon of holiday fun, Krista realizes that behind all that anti-Christmas spirit is a lonely andcaring man in need of some affection.  Jackson Peters doesn't have time for holiday shopping or snappy carols.  What he does want is Krista in his bed.  Spending the day with her is a revelation, and he begins to understand the importance of the holidays and spending it with a special person rather than at the office.  Jackson and Krista are a perfect match, both going after what they want and seeing more in the other person than the outside world does.  Very enjoyable story.<br /><br />The Good Girl's Guide to a Very Bad Christmas:  Peri Knight is an aspiring actress who finds out her fiance is cheating on her, so she dumps him.  But she doesn't feel too bad about that because it's really rising star Chase McCloud who floats her boat.  Chase comes in everyday for his regular coffee drink at the shop Peri currently works, and gives her some advice that pans out for her.  Before you know it, she's got the part - as Chase's new leading lady.  A predictable but likeable story - I wish it would have been a bit longer.  Peri is a little bit too superficial and hip to warm up to completely - though I applauded her decision to dump her fiance - but I found Chase to be charming and sincere and thought they complemented each other rather well.  Definitely has potential.s a lonely and caring man in need of some affection.  Jackson Peters doesn't have time for holiday shopping or snappy carols.  What he does want is Krista in his bed.  Spending the day with her is a revelation, and he begins to understand the importance of the holidays and spending it with a special person rather than at the office.  Jackson and Krista are a perfect match, both going after what they want and seeing more in the other person than the outside world does.  Very enjoyable story. <br /> <br />The Good Girl's Guide to a Very Bad Christmas:  Peri Knight is an aspiring actress who finds out her fiance is cheating on her, so she dumps him.  But she doesn't feel too bad about that because it's really rising star Chase McCloud who floats her boat.  Chase comes in everyday for his regular coffee drink at the shop Peri currently works, and gives her some advice that pans out for her.  Before you know it, she's got the part - as Chase's new leading lady.  A predictable but likeable story - I wish it would have been a bit longer.  Peri is a little bit too superficial and hip to warm up to completely - though I applauded her decision to dump her fiance - but I found Chase to be charming and sincere and thought they complemented each other rather well.  Definitely has potential. <br />	2005-09-23
US	38075043	R3OPINUO44PXMK	0373836406	353027547	Fantasy (Blaze)	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Re-issue of a Foster classic!	Sebastian Sinclair would do anything for a worthy cause, even if it means putting on a monkey suit and being auctioned off in front of a group of rich and raunchy women.  Sebastian hates being treated like a sex object, but knowing that the money raised was going to help abused women - a cause dear to his heart - how could he refuse?  But the sense of feeling like a piece of meat does not sit very well with Sebastian, at least not until someone catches his eye.<br /><br />Like something out of a movie, their eyes meet across a crowded room, and they can't look away from each other.  Sebastian's interest is drawn to the woman staring at him with such innocent fascination, and couldn't be more pleased when he ends up as her prize for the next five days.<br /><br />Brandi Sommers is mortified that her meddlesome but loving sister Shay bought her a man for her birthday (interesting note: Shay has her own story in \\"Secret Life of Bryan\\").  After extracting a promise from the gorgeous and sexy Mr. Sinclair to let her be in charge, she agrees to the prize package of a stay at a cozy yet luxurious cabin.  While wary in his presence, Brandi finds she can trust him to let her be the one in control.  She's shocked to discover how badly he wants her - it excites and terrifies her.  Having suffered a traumatic experience years ago, Brandi is not sure how to deal with her awakening sexuality, but senses she can trust Sebastian to keep his promise.<br /><br />Sebastian has never been so strongly affected by a woman.  Her innate sensuality and innocence drive him crazy, but he senses there is more to her than what he sees.  Willing himself to be patient, he allows her to dictate the direction of their relationship, and begins to care for this amazing woman who sets his blood on fire.  Losing his heart, he realizes that he wants their five days to turn into forever.  Now he just has to convince Brandi that she wants the same thing...<br /><br />This is a re-issue of one of Lori Foster's earliest books, and it stands the test of time.  I just read it for the first time, and was not disappointed.  Even in the beginning, you can find traces of the sexy and tender style that is signature Foster.  Another plus to this re-release is as a Signature Select title, there are additional bonus features at the end of the story, such as Lori Foster's Ideal Vacation Fantasy.  If you've never read it, I urge you to pick up a copy.  If you have read it, it's definitely worth a re-read.  Lori Foster's talent is timeless....one of Lori Foster's earliest books, and it stands the test of time.  I just read it for the first time, and was not disappointed.  Even in the beginning, you can find traces of the sexy and tender style that is signature Foster.  Another plus to this re-release is as a Signature Select title, there are additional bonus features at the end of the story, such as Lori Foster's Ideal Vacation Fantasy.   If you've never read it, I urge you to pick up a copy.  If you have read it, it's definitely worth a re-read.  Lori Foster's talent is timeless.... <br /> <br />	2005-08-19
US	38075043	R24U1HEGYV59OP	1843609010	64268413	Hunters: The Beginning	Books	5	18	19	N	N	This is Shiloh Walker at the top of her game!	The Hunter world of magick and the paranormal is bursting with vivid images and emotion, and will surround you like a seductive spell.<br /><br />The journey begins with Tori McAdams, a practical woman who never believed in vampires until she became one.  Bitten by a vengeful vampire, she is left to die an agonizing death until a voice in her head guides her to survival.  It also leads her to sexy Declan Reilly, a cop who's been trying to seduce her for months, only she doesn't get involved with cops.  Now Declan is her lifeline to getting through the Change and dealing with the uneasy feelings and physical adjustments that both amaze and horrify her.  Only some of the changes mystify Declan, a man with his own secrets, and he brings her to someone who might be able to help, a friend, a centuries-old vampire named Eli, to complete Tori's transition to her new existence.  Eli has an aura all his own, as most vampires do, and it calls out to Tori.  She is an exceptional creature, a Hunter, and able to resist the calls a lesser vampire is forced to answer.  Only not all does she choose to resist.  Shiloh creates a sexy love story of two bonded mates who truly belong to each other.  You will be fascinated by the paranormal world she has created that blends blood, sex and magick with a generous amount of eroticism.  The love scenes will leave you breathless and the bold sexuality of the lovers is unbelievably hot and intense - they will definitely make you squirm.  Tori is a strong, passionate woman conflicted by her new life, but one who learns to come to terms with it so she can find happiness with her true mate.  Declan fiercely loves his vampire and stands by her side as together they fight an evil determined to destroy them both.  These characters will capture your heart before you even realize it's happening. *****<br /><br />Eli is longing for Tori, the mate of his best friend Declan, and wants so desperately what they have found together.  While he truly loves his dear friends, being with them is becoming unbearable, and he feels that an existence without his own love may not be worth continuing.  But Eli has a calling, a need to save innocent souls that keeps him from giving up quite yet.  While out on such a mission, he is being hunted by someone who hates everything he stands for.  She is a powerful witch, and Sarel wants Eli dead, to suffer as her family has suffered.  Only her wish for vengance doesn't go as she planned, and she discovers how wrong she's been about Eli all this time.  As she learns to control her magick, the two are separated, but the distance of time and space is agony to them both.  Once reunited, their intense desire for each other consumes them, but neither realizes that it is more than lust driving them to be together.<br /><br />WOW!!!!!  These are two very explosive stories that tie into each other in a rather unique and bold way.  While very graphic and sexual in nature, the impact of these longer novellas would not be as potent without the strong emotional connection between the characters.  Walker is a master at creating strong and lasting bonds that transcend the traditional romance, yet still manage to touch you with their poignancy.  I am anxious to learn more about the Hunters and their brethren, and can't wait til the next story.truly loves his dear friends, being with them is becoming unbearable, and he feels that an existence without his own love may not be worth continuing.  But Eli has a calling, a need to save innocent souls that keeps him from giving up quite yet.  While out on such a mission, he is being hunted by someone who hates everything he stands for.  She is a powerful witch, and Sarel wants Eli dead, to suffer as her family has suffered.  Only her wish for vengance doesn't go as she planned, and she discovers how wrong she's been about Eli all this time.  As she learns to control her magick, the two are separated, but the distance of time and space is agony to them both.  Once reunited, their intense desire for each other consumes them, but neither realizes that it is more than lust driving them to be together.   <br /> <br />WOW!!!!!  These are two very explosive stories that tie into each other in a rather unique and bold way.  While very graphic and sexual in nature, the impact of these longer novellas would not be as potent without the strong emotional connection between the characters.  Walker is a master at creating strong and lasting bonds that transcend the traditional romance, yet still manage to touch you with their poignancy.  I am anxious to learn more about the Hunters and their brethren, and can't wait til the next story.	2005-08-16
US	38075043	R3J8WUO3DA4C2Q	1843609452	175076301	Bound Hearts: Submission & Seduction	Books	5	136	168	N	N	Scorching Books 2 & 3 in the Bound Hearts series!	Lora Leigh writes very erotic stories that are not for the faint of heart.  In book 2 of the Bound Series, \\"Submission\\" is the story of Ella and James.  Ella is Tess' mother (from \\"Surrender\\") and James is Jesse's twin brother.  Ella is appalled and shocked by the lifestyle of James, and if she can't condone her daughter living that kind of a life, she certainly isn't going to let herself live it.  But James know what Ella secretly wants, knows that traditional sex is not enough for her, even if she refuses to admit it.  He also knows she's uncomfortable with the fact she's older than him, but he doesn't let that stop him from helping her explore her sexuality and needs that only he can fulfill.  James has needs, too, and he wants desperately for the woman he loves to accept those needs, accept that part of his nature - the dominant side of himself.  Can he make her understand that she is all he really needs, the woman he wants to please above all others?  James finally convinces Ella to submit and rewards her with an experience they will both cherish.<br /><br />In \\"Seduction\\", Jesse wants Terrie very badly, loves her so much, but he knows how much she's been hurt by his own brother Thomas and he refuses to use her just to satisfy his desires.  His need to share his woman with another man is not something he takes lightly, but he's not sure if she's ready for it.  Instead of pushing, he decides to seduce her into coming to him.  Terrie needs to be the one to accept what he has to offer.  Only he doesn't count on his chosen lover to be just as stubborn and determined as he is.  Once she ran from him straight into the arms of his \\"safer\\" brother.  Will she run again, this time for good?  Or will she give her heart and soul to the one man who heats her blood like no other?  Jesse is in for a surprise when he realizes his Terrie is not the shy, timid woman he thought she was, but a woman with fantasies of her own, all involving him.  He finds out that she is his other half, willing to indulge in his darker sensuality and discover the ultimate in satisfaction together.<br /><br />While these stories are very graphic and frank in nature, within each one is a strong emotional connection; the characters love each other and are committed to their own kind of relationship.  These are not conventional love stories, but rather stories of people willing to lose their inhibitions with each other and push the boundaries of their relationships to new levels.  Never once did I feel that the heroines were ever forced to accept any type of humiliation or participate in anything against their will.  Any acts of domination tended to excite and enhance the women's pleasure rather than harm or traumatize.  The Bound Hearts series may not be for everyone, but it does appeal to a large audience of women who are eager to explore that side of themselves.er half, willing to indulge in his darker sensuality and discover the ultimate in satisfaction together.    <br /> <br />While these stories are very graphic and frank in nature, within each one is a strong emotional connection; the characters love each other and are committed to their own kind of relationship.  These are not conventional love stories, but rather stories of people willing to lose their inhibitions with each other and push the boundaries of their relationships to new levels.  Never once did I feel that the heroines were ever forced to accept any type of humiliation or participate in anything against their will.  Any acts of domination tended to excite and enhance the women's pleasure rather than harm or traumatize.  The Bound Hearts series may not be for everyone, but it does appeal to a large audience of women who are eager to explore that side of themselves.	2005-08-09
US	38075043	R3PWH4RVBNHTY6	1843606194	537072378	Ties That Bind (Bound Hearts, Book 1)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	"Ties That Bind" will turn up the heat to scorching!	It kicks off with \\"Sins of the Father\\", one of my first stories by the legendary Queen of Steam, Jaid Black.  Candy Morgan's family company was in trouble.  Her father no longer alive to run things, Candy has been in charge, unaware that her father's former protege has been waiting in the wings, ready to take over at the first sign of weakness.  James Douglas Mahoney III is ready to take out his revenge, and taking over Morgan Chemicals is just a small part of his plan.  His real goal is to take over Candy, the prize that had been dangled before him years ago.  This time he's not wearing rose-colored glasses - he knows exactly what he wants and he plans to get it.  Unaware of Candy's innocence to his firing, or of her longtime crush on him, JD has specific ideas of Candy's new role in the company, and they involve fulfilling every fantasy he's ever had about her.  Very exciting and erotic, \\"Sins\\" touches on some forbidden fantasies many women may have about being kidnapped or submission.  I think the story focuses more on a woman's pleasure and not about humiliation as JD always is gentle and caring in his treatment of Candy.  Definitely a must-read for fans of Jaid Black.<br /><br />\\"Surrender\\" by Lora Leigh kicks off her Bound Hearts series, and was my first by her.  Cole has always made Tess nervous, but she can't deny how much she wants him.  But rumors of his lifestyle have kept her away from him.  Now her father wants her home, so she comes back for a visit, aware that Cole will be there, but is convinced she can resist temptation.  But Cole is not taking \\"no\\" for an answer this time.  He wants her badly, and will have her no matter what it takes.  Cole believes there is a certain special bond that exists between him and Tess, one that includes bringing another man into their bedroom to bring her the ultimate fulfillment.  Not just any man - his best friend Jesse.  Cole loves Tess and only wants to make her happy, to give her more pleasure than she ever dreamed.  But Tess feels her desires are wrong, dirty.  With Cole's love, she learns that as long as they share in this pleasure together, her fantasies are something special between them, and not anything she should be ashamed of.  Instead she finds her soul mate, the man who makes her feel alive and happy.<br /><br />Both stories have very strong sexual fantasies which are not for everyone.  But for those who enjoy these types of fantasies, \\"Ties That Bind\\" will not disappoint.  It's a book I highly recommend.med.  But Tess feels her desires are wrong, dirty.  With Cole's love, she learns that as long as they share in this pleasure together, her fantasies are something special between them, and not anything she should be ashamed of.  Instead she finds her soul mate, the man who makes her feel alive and happy. <br /> <br />Both stories have very strong sexual fantasies which are not for everyone.  But for those who enjoy these types of fantasies, \\"Ties That Bind\\" will not disappoint.  It's a book I highly recommend.	2005-08-08
US	38075043	R2HYDWNWACANXW	1419951157	384187788	Mythe & Magick	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Enter a world of Mythe and Magick!	Shiloh Walker brings us 3 erotic and mystical tales in \\"Mythe and Magick\\"<br /><br />\\"Avalon\\": Seth Porter has been in love with ice princess Erin Sinclair since he first met her, but Erin refuses to let him get emotionally close to her.  See, Erin knows something that she's never told Seth - she is going to die before she's thirty - and she doesn't want Seth to be devastated, so she keeps her distance.  But now the danger is getting closer, and Erin knows her time is almost up.  But loving Seth as she does, she's not willing to give in without a fight.  Together they work to bring down a killer, and have a chance at the love they've always felt for each other.  Seth is a strong, protective yet practical hero unsure of how to deal with Erin's abilities yet loves her just the same.  Erin is a strong, exceptional woman who has seen her own death and doesn't plan on dying in vain, especially when she comes to terms with her feelings for Seth and how good they are together.  A sexy and suspenseful story.<br /><br />\\"The Empath's Lover\\": Touch empath Angelo Kelly feels the passion and longing in Jordan Sears whenever he touches her.  The thing is, she's his brother's fiancee, and completely off-limits.  He's tried to keep his distance from her, knowing she belongs to his brother, but he wants her very badly, and doesn't question his motives when she calls him to pick her up from the airport.  Angelo resists his need for her as he brings her home to his brother Lee, only when he drops her off, Jordan gets a nasty surprise - her fiance is in bed with her best friend.  As much as Angelo hates to see Jordan in any kind of pain, he can't help but rejoice in this chance he's been given to be with her.  He takes her away to his cabin, and lets her know exactly how much he's always wanted her.  Angelo treats her like a real woman instead of the fragile work of art Lee did, and Jordan feels free to indulge in her sexuality with this strong, sensual, agressive yet caring man.  Whew, turn up the a/c with this one - it's HOT!  My favorite of the three stories.<br /><br />\\"Mythe Satyr\\": This story is more mythical than the previous two, but not any less enjoyable.  Pepper St. John is a powerful witch still trying to get a grip on her powers.  She senses something from another world, a need for her, so she tries to break through and find the man from her visions.  Arys is a satyr, a creature of Mythe and a Gatekeeper to that world who is still mourning the loss of his wife and unborn child, and doesn't care for all the lively pursuits he once indulged in.  Until one day someone breaks through to his world and falls right into his arms.  Pepper is not sure what to think of this wonderous place, where the conversation is lyrical and the creatures are incredibly beautiful.  It's not her world, but can she think to leave it, and to leave Arys, whom she needs just as badly as he needs her?  Danger approaches, and Pepper knows she can't ignore it, or let anything happen to Arys, who makes her feel more alive than she's ever been.  Readers will be entranced by this world, and hypnotized by the poetic language.  Very charming story.<br /><br />Shiloh Walker does an amazing job of writing wickedly sexy and creative stories guaranteed to spark your own imagination.  I usually don't care much for the paranormal or fantastical settings, but Shiloh captures your attention from the beginning and doesn't let go until the last page.  She's an auto-buy author for me.Whew, turn up the a/c with this one - it's HOT!  My favorite of the three stories. <br /> <br />\\"Mythe Satyr\\": This story is more mythical than the previous two, but not any less enjoyable.  Pepper St. John is a powerful witch still trying to get a grip on her powers.  She senses something from another world, a need for her, so she tries to break through and find the man from her visions.  Arys is a satyr, a creature of Mythe and a Gatekeeper to that world who is still mourning the loss of his wife and unborn child, and doesn't care for all the lively pursuits he once indulged in.  Until one day someone breaks through to his world and falls right into his arms.  Pepper is not sure what to think of this wonderous place, where the conversation is lyrical and the creatures are incredibly beautiful.  It's not her world, but can she think to leave it, and to leave Arys, whom she needs just as badly as he needs her?  Danger approaches, and Pepper knows she can't ignore it, or let anything happen to Arys, who makes her feel more alive than she's ever been.  Readers will be entranced by this world, and hypnotized by the poetic language.  Very charming story. <br /> <br />Shiloh Walker does an amazing job of writing wickedly sexy and creative stories guaranteed to spark your own imagination.  I usually don't care much for the paranormal or fantastical settings, but Shiloh captures your attention from the beginning and doesn't let go until the last page.  She's an auto-buy author for me.   <br /> <br />	2005-08-07
US	38075043	R32GMMXWI79AIW	0451216059	680910430	Taking Care of Business	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Taking Care of Business is three times the pleasure!	It all starts out with LuAnn McLane's gem \\"Driven\\", about two authors - one who writes mysteries, the other romance - who are struggling while trying to use elements from the other person's genre in their own stories. Ian Parker especially is having difficulty adding a romantic angle to his mystery series, but his fans are clamoring for his characters to get together, and the solution is to have bestselling romance writer Maxine Mitchell help him out.  Of course Ian is reluctant, having met Ms. Mitchell previously and finding himself a little too taken with her for his peace of mind.  Maxine is delighted to be working with Ian Parker.  Not only is he like one of her sexy and brooding heroes, he also makes her hot, and that is an irresistible combination.  Only they don't start out on the right foot, and the sparks fly all over the place.  A rather intriguing bet kicks it up a notch, and you will fall in love with Ian right along with Maxie.  Their romance is one dynamic collaboration that will have you longing for more.<br /><br />Anyone who's ever been to Vegas knows that \\"What Happens In Vegas\\" stays in Vegas.  Patricia Ryan has created an intriging character in Jay Douglas, a high roller who's winning millions at the blackjack tables of casino owner Eddie Flynn.  Flynn isn't too happy with Jay, and sends in sexy yet sweetly innocent Libby Thatcher to find out Jay's winning secrets.  Libby is in a bind, and agrees to help out Eddie if he'll agree to her business deal.  Only she doesn't count on being so drawn to Jay, and finds herself getting too involved.  And Jay can't keep his concentration when Libby is in his zone.  He finds himself unable to resist her, no matter how much he tries.  A steamy encounter in the hot tub will definitely leave you breathless, not to mention Jay's ability to tie a decent knot.  This is one resourceful hero, and Libby is a genuinely likeable heroine drawn to a man she must lie to against her better judgment.  You'll be cheering for both and end the story with a sigh of contentment as they reach their happily ever after.<br /><br />\\"Brushstrokes\\" is a story about longing.  Mia is a struggling artist who creates heavenly creatures filled with longing, a feeling she heself possesses for bar owner Rick Rose.  Rick needs his bar painted, and though Mia's artwork isn't what he had in mind, he continues to let her create her mural on the Rose Tavern's ceiling while he longs to give into his desire for her.  But Rick has been burned before, and Mia is not the kind of woman to have a meaningless fling with, so he avoids her so as not to give into temptation.  Only things don't turn out the way either one of them planned, and falling in love certainly wasn't part of their agreement...<br /><br />Sexy, provocative, and delightful, these three talented authors show us what happens when work and play collide, and how much fun that can truly be!ring for both and end the story with a sigh of contentment as they reach their happily ever after. <br /> <br />\\"Brushstrokes\\" is a story about longing.  Mia is a struggling artist who creates heavenly creatures filled with longing, a feeling she heself possesses for bar owner Rick Rose.  Rick needs his bar painted, and though Mia's artwork isn't what he had in mind, he continues to let her create her mural on the Rose Tavern's ceiling while he longs to give into his desire for her.  But Rick has been burned before, and Mia is not the kind of woman to have a meaningless fling with, so he avoids her so as not to give into temptation.  Only things don't turn out the way either one of them planned, and falling in love certainly wasn't part of their agreement... <br /> <br />Sexy, provocative, and delightful, these three talented authors show us what happens when work and play collide, and how much fun that can truly be!	2005-08-07
US	38075043	R37U1CY3BF4TDK	0373750811	552019427	A Fabulous Wife	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Fabulous beginning to this trilogy!	Dianne Castell really is coming into her own with her unique brand of humor, passion, and love of cowboys.  This first in the Fabulous trilogy is a wonderful story about two people who were once together but are now apart yet continue to love each other, even after all these years.<br /><br />Maggie Moran and Jack Dawson met years ago in Chicago - he as a city cop and she as an artist - and instantly fell in love.  The two made a life for themselves and had a son together but after several years, Maggie couldn't handle the constant danger her husband was in because of his line of work, especially since he attracted trouble like moth to a flame.  But Jack didn't know any other life, and he decided to stay in Chicago while Maggie took their son and moved to her home state of Montana to live on her father's ranch and build a new life, without Jack.  Though they've kept in touch, Jack hasn't seen Maggie in thirteen years.<br /><br />Now their son Ben is graduating from high school and Maggie has invited Jack to the graduation.  From the moment they see each other again, Jack starts taking control, which drives Maggie absolutely nuts.  She is now forty, her own woman, and doesn't need Jack to take care of her.  But that is what Jack does, it's who he is, and he can't help that.  He also can't help the feelings he still has for his ex-wife.<br /><br />Maggie has made a good life for herself and their son, and she's afraid of the feelings she still has for Jack because she knows that after the graduation, he's going to head back to Chicago.  Can she stand to lose him a second time, knowing how hard it was to get over over him?  Will the differences that drove them apart years ago still manage to keep them apart a second time?<br /><br />\\"A Fabulous Wife\\" has many wonderful qualities to rave about, from the romance and sexual tension that constantly exist between Maggie and Jack, to the care and concern they have for each other and for their families and friends, it is a heart-warming story.  Their are also moments that will have you laughing out loud and others that will bring a tear to your eye.  Readers will appreciate the strong passion that exists between these forty-something individuals and see it as healthy, sexy, and not just for teenagers or people in their twenties but for mature adults who still have a lot of living left in them.  I cannot wait for the next book in this trilogy, and hopefully revisit these delightful characters once again.s, it is a heart-warming story.  Their are also moments that will have you laughing out loud and others that will bring a tear to your eye.  Readers will appreciate the strong passion that exists between these forty-something individuals and see it as healthy, sexy, and not just for teenagers or people in their twenties but for mature adults who still have a lot of living left in them.  I cannot wait for the next book in this trilogy, and hopefully revisit these delightful characters once again.	2005-08-05
US	38075043	R2BITVFIS5MLX6	1419950630	968805979	Tempting Fate	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Tempting Fate is an enjoyable and HOT read!	Fate Doherty's day starts out in the usual way, until she gets to work and discovers her company has been taken over by a rival, and she is forced to share her office with the one man she never wants to see again - Gabe Ryan.  They were briefly involved years ago, but recently he's been a thorn in her side as the competition.  Now she's forced to work with him, and she doesn't think she can do it without killing him first...<br /><br />No one effects Gabe the way Fate does.  Even when she's irritated with him, she makes him feel more alive than he can ever remember feeling.  He blew his chances with her when they were younger, but now he's back in her life and he's not about to mess things up this time.  But how can he concentrate on his plan when she is making him crazy, wanting only to touch her, to kiss her?  And can he pull his plan off to save the day and win the woman who owns his heart?<br /><br />\\"Tempting Fate\\" is an enjoyable read filled with wonderfully hot scenes.  Reading Fate's reactions as she realizes who she's forced to work with will keep you flipping the pages, as will Gabe's outrageous behavior, which annoys her yet begins to turn her on.  It's incredibly sexy how Gabe sets out to win Fate with his wicked promises and sincere devotion.  I would have enjoyed to see them explore the competitive world of dating services and resolve the loose ends that started out so promising but then got left behind.  Fate came across very strong in the beginning but weakened a bit as the story progressed, but it also served to showcase her tender heart.  Gabe was very endearing and likeable throughout, even when he was in over his head, but always putting Fate first and showing how much he'd changed.  He also had a bit of a naughty side that really made this story HOT.  I will definitely read other stories by this author.	2005-07-30
US	38075043	R3UXTUQA6QGCM9	0373124848	938614097	Blackmailed Into Marriage	Books	5	13	14	N	N	This special story will stay with you...	Lia is desperate.  Her young daughter needs an expensive operation, one she cannot afford on her own, and the only way her wealthy grandfather will help her is if she marries Damian Marquez, a man of his choosing this time around.  Lia resents the power her grandfather wields over her, but she is willing to do anything to save her daughter's life, even if it means marriage to a man who sees her as his ticket to the title that was denied him from birth. He wants a child, and believes Lia will provide him with his heir.  However Lia is convinced once Damian learns her secret, he will no longer wish to stay married to her, and she can go back to living the modest existence she once knew.  It was just a matter of time...<br /><br />Damian has always felt an attraction to Lia, from the moment he saw her years ago, only she doesn't remember ever having met him.  Now an opportunity to claim her as his wife has presented itself, and he is not about to let it slip away.  Lia is even more beautiful and desirable now, and her daughter is a precious child who touches his heart.  He senses that there is more to Lia's lack of resistance to their marriage than greed, and is surprised to discover that she believes he will divorce her when he finds out she cannot truly be his.  But Damian is not willing to let go of his wife that easily, and instead uses patience and respect for her to bring them closer together and strengthen their marriage.<br /><br />In Damian she has created a strong yet patient hero, one who is mature enough not to let lust control him yet just as determined not to let his wife push him away.  In Lia, she has created an equally strong heroine, one who has been living with the belief that she is to blame for her intimacy problems, yet brave enough to face them for the chance at a happy and fulfilling marriage with the help of her caring husband.  This is truly a love story.<br /><br />I love Lucy Monroe's writing, and I'm even more impressed by her decision to bring to light a rather sensitive topic regarding a woman's sexuality and the effects it can have on her intimate relationships.  Ms. Monroe's willingness to throw open the doors and bring up this subject in a positive and healthy way has the potential to help thousands of women going through similar circumstances, and hopefully will seek medical treatment rather than suffer in silence.  The author's sensitivity throughout this story shines through, and guarantees the story will linger in your mind for some time to come.  I was very moved by it.sion to bring to light a rather sensitive topic regarding a woman's sexuality and the effects it can have on her intimate relationships.  Ms. Monroe's willingness to throw open the doors and bring up this subject in a positive and healthy way has the potential to help thousands of women going through similar circumstances, and hopefully will seek medical treatment rather than suffer in silence.  The author's sensitivity throughout this story shines through, and guarantees the story will linger in your mind for some time to come.  I was very moved by it.	2005-07-26
US	38075043	R19ZAMENYNGTB5	1419952218	664139609	Heroes at Heart - A Hero's Kiss	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Hero's Kiss is very hot!	US Astronaut Piper Hero is on a mission with her sisters to find their missing brothers on planet Paradise when they are separated in a crash-landing.  Not remembering what happened to her immediately after the crash, she awakens to the erotic \\"fever sex dreams\\", a poisonous effect from the deadly swampwater she ingested.  The cure is administered by Jarod Ellis, a former sex slave who has escaped the torture he has suffered at the hands of the women of Paradise.  Jarod doesn't believe this woman is a relative of the men he's protecting, and refuses to help her find them. Piper has no idea what has happened to her sisters, but she is determined to find them, as well as her brothers, with or without Jarod's help.<br /><br />But Piper is not accustomed to the laws in Paradise, and doesn't realize the dangers of being out on her own in Death Valley, where women are captured and turned into sex slaves.  She needs Jarod's help, and can't deny the incredible attraction she feels towards him.  Jarod awakens her deepest desires, and unleashes needs in her she never knew existed.  But Piper must find her siblings and isn't about to let anyone or anything stand in her way.  She takes off through the swamp, alone, unaware of the dangers surrounding her.  A near run-in with the Death Valley boys proves to her what could happen to her if she were captured, and how women are treated as property, not as independent individuals.  She's reunited with Jarod, but then later both are caught by the Death Valley Boys, and Jarod must challenge them for Piper and win, or she will be their captive, forced into sexual slavery and not free to find her family.  Jarod also risks his own freedom and the possibility of being returned as a male sex slave, a life he wants no part of.  Is this fiesty independent woman worth risking it all for?  But how can he trust her when all he's ever known is pain and torture from women?<br /><br />Jan Springer writes another heart-pounding erotic story in the Hero series, and writes about some of a woman's most forbidden desires, but never makes them seem crude or shameful.  It is HOT, and will leave you breathless on many occasions.  Jarod is a very sexy hero with a tormented past, yet hasn't lost his gentle touch or protective instincts in his dealings with women.  The idea of being with a man who has been trained in the life of a sex slave and how to make a woman's sexual fantasies come true is an intoxicating image, and will certainly fire up anyone's imagination.  While some may be offended by the idea of slavery, and rightfully so, I urge readers to remember this is a work of fiction, and does not condone any forced situations on Piper or Jarod,but is rather used to create an erotic world where not all the slaves feel forced into their roles as captives.  I look forward to finding out what happens to Piper's sisters, and hopefully won't have to wait too long.y in the Hero series, and writes about some of a woman's most forbidden desires, but never makes them seem crude or shameful.  It is HOT, and will leave you breathless on many occasions.   Jarod is a very sexy hero with a tormented past, yet hasn't lost his gentle touch or protective instincts in his dealings with women.  The idea of being with a man who has been trained in the life of a sex slave and how to make a woman's sexual fantasies come true is an intoxicating image, and will certainly fire up anyone's imagination.  While some may be offended by the idea of slavery, and rightfully so, I urge readers to remember this is a work of fiction, and does not condone any forced situations on Piper or Jarod,but is rather used to create an erotic world where not all the slaves feel forced into their roles as captives.  I look forward to finding out what happens to Piper's sisters, and hopefully won't have to wait too long. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-25
US	38075043	R150IFO97JC0QY	0373791984	664155220	Night Moves	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Night Moves is a sexy and emotional story	How do you convince your best friend, someone you've known since grade school and who has seen you at your worst, that you are in love with them?  And not only that, but a best friend who is also on the verge of marrying someone else? This is the dilemma Shane Walker faces as he is about to leave his best friend Ella Davenport for a new life and a new job in another state.  But before he goes, he's determined to tell her that she is the one that owns his heart, and probably always has.<br /><br />Ella has known Shane for most of her life, and they've shared everything, yet never once has she ever thought of him in a romantic or even a sexual way.  But now that he's about to leave in two days, she can't stop fantasizing about him instead of her soon-to-be fiance.  She's convinced it's because he's leaving and she's about to lose her best friend, and not because she's actually attracted to him.  So why does his nearness cause her heart to pound and her hormones to rage out of control?  It can't be because she actually wants to act on her fantasies, does it?  Ella is determined not to give into temptation and ruin the most important relationship in her life.<br /><br />Now on their last weekend together, a blackout hits the city and in the dark, anything can happen.  Shane convinces Ella to explore her fantasies with him, to let herself be free and wild, yet also safe in his arms.  He can't believe how much she trusts him, but he always knew they would be incredible together.  Now all he has to do is convince her that he's the one she loves, and that falling in love won't ruin their friendship, but instead turn it into something even more special.<br /><br />I admit to having a tender spot for stories about friends who fall in love, but I was a bit skeptical that this would work in 24 hours.  Yet Julie Kenner uses a magical pen as she creates a truly wonderful story that works on so many levels.  It is always a gamble to risk a friendship for something more, but if the friendship is solid enough, precious enough, it can handle any challenge.  Ms. Kenner proves that if you want something badly enough, you will take the necessary steps to make it work.  As with any good story, I was sad to see it end, but thoroughly enjoyed the happy ending.ut if the friendship is solid enough, precious enough, it can handle any challenge.  Ms. Kenner proves that if you want something badly enough, you will take the necessary steps to make it work.  As with any good story, I was sad to see it end, but thoroughly enjoyed the happy ending.	2005-07-25
US	38075043	R2O1TK434XCLQO	0553445472	141841295	KISS AND TELL (Sunrise Key)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	An early Brockmann gem	This was the book that \\"introduced\\" me to the wonderful Suzanne Brockmann, and so it will always have a special place in my heart.  It is not romantic suspense, so don't expect to see any Navy SEALs or terrorist plots.  Instead what you have is a very simple yet very intense love story.<br /><br />Leila Hunt has gone home to Florida for a much-needed vacation.  She hopes to spend her days soaking up the sun, hanging out with her best friend Frankie, enjoying her brother's fun parties, and avoiding the British and annoying Dr. Marshall Devlin at all costs.<br /><br />While at one of her brother Simon's infamous parties, Leila is given the most passionate and arousing kiss by a mysterious ninja (are there any other kind?), who ends up leaving Cinderella aka Leila behind at the ball instead of the other way around.  Only instead of a slipper, she's left with the memory of a heated kiss.<br /><br />Considering all the hostility and angst they went through as teenagers, Marsh can't believe he kissed Leila, but now that he has, he wants to do it again.  Excited to see her, he gets quite the jolt when he realizes that Leila has no idea he was the one who kissed the breath out of her.  So instead of being upfront and confessing he was her man of mystery, he keeps it to himself, convinced that if they spend more time together Leila will realize that he is the one she's been searching for all along.  Of course he also realizes that she will end up hating him even more when she finds out he was her ninja, but it's a risk he's willing to take.<br /><br />True, it's a contrived plot, one that could have been solved quite easily, but what fun would that be?  It works rather well to increase the incredible tension that has always existed between Marsh and Leila.  I remember being blown away by the intensity Suz used with her characters even back then, and it showcases hints of her burgeoning talents as a writer.  Keep in mind this story was released in '96, and look how far she's come since then.  Without cutting her teeth on K & T, we would not have had Sam & Alyssa, or more recently, Max & Gina.<br /><br />If you are a diehard SB fan, or if you've never read anything by Suz, I highly recommend this book.  Even if you have read her books, I still recommend reading K & T.  I loved it.r she's come since then.  Without cutting her teeth on K & T, we would not have had Sam & Alyssa, or more recently, Max & Gina.   <br /> <br />If you are a diehard SB fan, or if you've never read anything by Suz, I highly recommend this book.  Even if you have read her books, I still recommend reading K & T.  I loved it.	2005-07-19
US	38075043	R29THMLF7J4TBW	0373766580	318499619	Whatever Reilly Wants... (Silhouette Desire)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	From friends to lovers...	Book #2 of the Three-Way Wager trilogy:<br /><br />Connor Reilly made a bet with his brothers that he could go without sex for 90 days.  One brother has already lost the bet, and he's bound and determined to make it to the bitter end.<br /><br />Of course in order to do this, he must avoid temptation.  One person he feels won't tempt him is his good friend, mechanic Emma Jacobsen.  He's known her for years and feels he can be himself around her, plus Connor doesn't notice a thing beyond the overalls and grease that normally cover her body.  He goes as far as to even tell her she's not a woman - she's a mechanic!<br /><br />This sets off Emma's temper.  Not that she wants Connor for herself, but she is insulted by his opinion and his lack of awareness of her as a woman.  Emma decides to get a little revenge by showing him just how much a woman she is and making him lose the bet in the process.  Only she doesn't expect for his reaction to affect her so strongly.<br /><br />Connor can't believe that the sexy woman playing pool is his good friend Emma.  He's never her seen her dress like this, and were her eyes always so blue?  He's instantly attracted, and instantly jealous of all the male attention she is attracting.  Now he can't stop thinking about her.  As competitive as he is, is a night in her arms worth losing a bet with his brothers?<br /><br />Connor and Emma must each figure out what to do now that their friendship has changed because of their attraction.  Will Connor see Emma as she really is, and can Emma accept Connor for the man he is?  Maureen Child writes an emotional yet sexy story that will make you sigh as you read it.  My one complaint is Connor's lack of tact as he tells Emma how he thinks of her, not realizing how truly insulting he is in his description of his supposedly good friend.  Other than that, I really enjoyed this story and look foward to book #3 in this fun series.	2005-07-18
US	38075043	R1VDXFXYEWU34O	0345480120	346835296	Breaking Point (Troubleshooters, Book 9)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Suzanne Brockmann goes in different direction with Breaking Point	I have been anxiously awaiting this book just like many other fans and couldn't wait to get my hands on Breaking Point.  Suzanne Brockmann is one of only a few authors I will buy in hardcover because I believe her stories are worth the price.  I still believe that.<br /><br />With that being said, I would like to say that I loved Breaking Point, though it wasn't the story I originally had envisioned for Max and Gina.  But as I read this tension-filled story, it began to make sense.  Considering the circumstances on how Max and Gina met, and what they put themselves through since, the only way to bring them together was through some very extreme and emotional conditions.  For fans of the series, many know that Max has pushed Gina away since \\"Over the Edge\\", and in the following books, we know the frustration Gina feels about Max's unwillingness to commit to a relationship with her.  This is continued through flashbacks in Breaking Point.  It takes a devastating blow - news of her death - to jar Max out of the emotional coma he's been living in.  For once we see Max's control begin to fray as he contemplates a world without Gina in it, and what he had truly given up.<br /><br />The only thing holding Max together is his rage and determination to avenge her death.  Against Max's wishes, he's accompanied by Jules Cassidy, an FBI agent that is one of the few people who knows how much Gina means to Max.  Jules is the kind of friend Max needs right now, where he knows it or not.  Max goes to Hamburg in order to identify her body, and here is one of the most heart-wrenching scenes in the book, even though we know all along it's not Gina, and which Max soon discovers for himself.  But where is she?<br /><br />Fans will also remember Molly and Grady from \\"Out of Control\\", and they play significant roles in Breaking Point.  In fact it's Grady's past that has put both Gina and Molly in danger.  It's a race against time and terrorism as the action takes place from Kenya to Hamburg to Indonesia as Max and Jules try to find Molly and Gina before it's too late.  Once again, Jules proves to be an extraordinary friend and FBI agent who shows no fear, whether he's faced with the enemy or faced with an emotional situation.  He never backs down and will risk his own life for his friends or for a complete stranger.  His ability to cut right through all the excuses and get right to the heart of the matter, even if he's hated for it, will make you want to reach out and give him a huge hug, and pray that he finds someone special of his own.  Brockmann does an amazing job of not stereotyping Jules because of his sexual orientation, and allowing readers to view a bit of his own heartache.  I sincerely hope he gets his own story because he has more than earned it.<br /><br />If I had any complaints about this story, it's the absence of favorite and familiar characters from previous books.  I always love to peek into their lives and see what they're up to, and usually Brockmann will do that, which provides an even stronger emotional connection.  Her current observations of previous characters is refreshingly realistic, and I truly missed it this time around.  This makes me even more anxious for her next book.<br /><br />I also hope others will give this book a chance.  I plan to re-read it because I know there were wonderful scenes I missed the first time around while I rushed for the pay-off.  It may not be what you expect, but it doesn't lessen the story.  Brockmann seems determined to keep writing outside the box and not be pegged by following a familiar pattern in her books, and should be admired because of it. Whether it's sexual preferences or age differences or any other stereotypes, Brockmann will blow a pre-conceived notion out of the water and write an even better story, and that's why I will buy her hardcovers without thinking twice about it.a to Hamburg to Indonesia as Max and Jules try to find Molly and Gina before it's too late.  Once again, Jules proves to be an extraordinary friend and FBI agent who shows no fear, whether he's faced with the enemy or faced with an emotional situation.  He never backs down and will risk his own life for his friends or for a complete stranger.  His ability to cut right through all the excuses and get right to the heart of the matter, even if he's hated for it, will make you want to reach out and give him a huge hug, and pray that he finds someone special of his own.  Brockmann does an amazing job of not stereotyping Jules because of his sexual orientation, and allowing readers to view a bit of his own heartache.  I sincerely hope he gets his own story because he has more than earned it. <br /> <br />If I had any complaints about this story, it's the absence of favorite and familiar characters from previous books.  I always love to peek into their lives and see what they're up to, and usually Brockmann will do that, which provides an even stronger emotional connection.  Her current observations of previous characters is refreshingly realistic, and I truly missed it this time around.  This makes me even more anxious for her next book.   <br /> <br />I also hope others will give this book a chance.  I plan to re-read it because I know there were wonderful scenes I missed the first time around while I rushed for the pay-off.  It may not be what you expect, but it doesn't lessen the story.  Brockmann seems determined to keep writing outside the box and not be pegged by following a familiar pattern in her books, and should be admired because of it. Whether it's sexual preferences or age differences or any other stereotypes, Brockmann will blow a pre-conceived notion out of the water and write an even better story, and that's why I will buy her hardcovers without thinking twice about it.    <br /> <br />	2005-07-17
US	38075043	R3BF2O6LZZPG5L	0373124694	272607875	The Italian's Stolen Bride (Harlequin Presents # 2469)	Books	4	32	32	N	N	A solid, strong story from the impressive Emma Darcy	Luc Peretti spurned the love of his life when he believed she slept with his brother.  After all, why would Roberto, his flesh and blood, lie to him?  Before the end of the first chapter, that question is addressed and now it's time to deal with the obvious fallout.<br /><br />Betrayed by his own family, Luc is determined to find Skye and the child he never knew he had.  Only this time he's determined that nothing will separate them again.  Being the rich and powerful man he is, it's no surprise he locates Skye almost immediately, and begins a campaign to win her back.  Only Skye is no shrinking violet, and Luc knows he must win her trust if they are ever to be truly happy.  However this time Skye is determined that she will not be hurt again, and nor will her son, an innocent victim in the Peretti family's manipulations.<br /><br />Can she allow herself to love Luc again, knowing how devastating it was to lose him?  Above all, her first concern is her child and the fact that he comes first.  Fortunately he is not used as a pawn in his parents' battle and it will endear the reader to this familiar plot all the more because of it.<br /><br />I admit that the Harlequin Presents are one of my guilty pleasures, though they are not always so politically correct.  Imagine my surprise to discover that more and more selections from the HP line have climbed out of the dark ages and while still intense and exotic, they continue to have more depth and layers than ever before.  This time the story serves to remind us that all the money in the world can't buy happiness and love.  A very well-told story from one of the best.	2005-07-12
US	38075043	R28M5DMIG28JT6	141995041X	845862499	Her Best Friend's Lover	Books	5	50	61	N	N	This sexy story will touch your heart	Love at first sight.  That is what Lauren experiences the first time she sees Dale Stoner, and has been living with those feelings ever since.  After years of loving Dale, Lauren knows something has to change.  It hurts too much to even be around him anymore when all she can do is wish he felt the same way.  She tries to lose herself in her art, creating visions of sad beauty that echo what's in her heart.<br /><br />But Dale is not in love with her.  Instead he sees her as only his best friend, his rock.  The one constant in his ever-changing world of women.  No one will ever take the place of the one who owns his heart.  It will never be his to give to another anyway.  However rather than live a celibate life like his friend Lauren, he chooses to drown his sorrows in temporary encounters where there are no strings attached and no one gets hurt.<br /><br />With both experiencing the pain of unrequited love, eventually something was bound to happen.  A bittersweet reminder from Dale's past leads to a night of passion, only Dale is too drunk to remember who he made love to.  Now he's haunted by erotic dreams of a sexy mystery woman who fulfills his every fantasy, and he can't stop thinking about her, wanting to be with her.  If that wasn't making him crazy enough, now he's constantly struck by sexy images of his best friend Lauren, and to make matters worse, he's beoming irrationally jealous of this mystery man she's so desperately in love with, whoever he might be.  Lauren's not talking.<br /><br />\\"Her Best Friend's Lover\\" will touch a chord with anyone who's ever been intensely in love with someone who didn't feel the same way.  It will break your heart and make you smile, and ultimately have you believe that sometimes love does grace us with its presence when we need it the most.  It's moving, sexy, and erotic.  Definitely a keeper.	2005-07-12
US	38075043	RQJU0GQOFXMDM	0373770642	224981593	No Strings Attached	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A light-hearted story of best friends	This is a lighthearted story of best friends who grew up together and are perfect for each other, and everyone knows it but them.<br /><br />Okay, so Samantha Brady hasn't found Prince Charming and she has yet to sell her novel.  She's still got her best friend and roommate Jack Turner looking out for her.  True, she had a crush on him in high school, but knows that Jack is vehemently against marriage, and who can blame him, after the childhood he had?  Anyway, now Samantha has decided to have a baby, like, right now, and despite some misgivings from Jack, he has decided to support her with her decision.  Only getting pregnant might not be so easy for her.  To get her mind off her troubles, Jack takes her home to see her parents, where she can bask in the love and comradery of her family, who treat Jack like another son.  On the way back home, a nasty storm and car trouble has them stopping at a Bates-like motel, where they share a room and a bottle of Jack Daniels.  As you can imagine, one thing leads to another and before too long, the alcohol has given them both an excuse to give into the long-simmering attraction that they've ignored for years.<br /><br />The next morning leads to a mutual decision to forget about their drunken night of passion, but that's easier said than done.  Tension and hurt feelings take over, and before long, the once easy-going friendship becomes strained.  And as you may have guessed, Samantha ends up pregnant.  Now all she has to do is tell Jack and her family, sell her book, and meet a Prince Charming who must love kids and Boston terriers.  It shouldn't be too hard, should it?<br /><br />This is the first story I've read by Millie Criswell, and I enjoyed it.  Ms. Criswell uses a traditional plot - that of best friends who fall in love - yet adds some refreshing angles to this storyline.<br /><br />Ms. Criswell also does remarkably well with the secondary characters.  Family seems to be a very important theme, and she stays true to the various personalities by not turning them into cookie cutter versions of what we wish to see, but rather allows each to have their flaws and resists drastically changing them to create the typical happy endings for everyone.  Another gem is Samantha's friend Patty, a tough-as-nails attorney a.k.a. maneater who does not end up all soft and sentimental by the end of the book, but rather retains her personality and outlook on life.  I would love to read her story.s true to the various personalities by not turning them into cookie cutter versions of what we wish to see, but rather allows each to have their flaws and resists drastically changing them to create the typical happy endings for everyone.  Another gem is Samantha's friend Patty, a tough-as-nails attorney a.k.a. maneater who does not end up all soft and sentimental by the end of the book, but rather retains her personality and outlook on life.  I would love to read her story.      <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-11
US	38075043	R1O8YZJCN3N5Z9	055338306X	99889584	Sleeping with Beauty	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A sweet read	When we first meet our unlikely heroine, Lucy Harper, it is during her pre-teen years.  She is trying to survive the daily tortures that consume the life of the not-so-popular crowd, and while facing them bravely, she doesn't always come out successful.  Fortunately, her two best friends, Jana and Grady are there to lend moral support.<br /><br />Shoot ahead to modern times, where Lucy is now facing a bit of a dilemma: her ten-year high school reunion.  While a part of her wishes to just ignore it and not go - after all, she's happy with her life  - there's that insistent little voice that tells she must, and that fact that her high school crush will be there doesn't hurt.  Only this time she's determined to be the belle of the ball.<br /><br />But there's a slight problem - Lucy is not the belle of anything.  Geekhood has followed her into adulthood, and she doesn't know what to do about it, until she hears about a place of wonder called Glass Slipper where any wallflower can release her inner goddess.  Against the better judgment of her best friends - both of whom no longer wallow in pariahville alongside her - Lucy makes a date with destiny and bravely faces the trials and tribulations of primping.  The outcome is more than she expected, and she is overwhelmed by the enchantress she has turned into.  She needs the support of her friends, only Jana has her own issues to deal with, and Grady doesn't seem to like her anymore.  Bound and determined to shine, even if she has to do it alone, it's time to face the past and show her former classmates what they overlooked all those years ago.<br /><br />Most of us can relate to the traumas of high school, and suffering through hopeless crushes on the cutest boy in school who never gave us a second glance.  But not all of us were lucky to have a Grady, who loves Lucy no matter what and is sad to see his beloved geek turn into a swan.  He is a true diamond in the rough, always there for her and Jana, and while we can understand Lucy's desire to prove something to those who snubbed her in high school, we can't help but wish she'd take her blinders off a lot quicker and see who's been by her side all along.  But eventually she does, and what happens is the happy ending we've been holding our breath for - thank God!  It is a sweet moment that is finally realized.n understand Lucy's desire to prove something to those who snubbed her in high school, we can't help but wish she'd take her blinders off a lot quicker and see who's been by her side all along.  But eventually she does, and what happens is the happy ending we've been holding our breath for - thank God!  It is a sweet moment that is finally realized.	2005-07-11
US	38075043	RFY2F4XU673JF	1419950029	657760148	Lucy's Double Diamonds	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Lucy's Double Diamonds is twice as HOT!	Lucy O'Malley spends her days working as a waitress at a diner and fantasizing about meeting the man of her dreams.  Only when it happens, she doesn't imagine that she will fall at his feet the way she does.  Matt Diamond is just about the most mouth-watering thing she's ever seen, and he makes her crazy with desire.  Lucy can't believe someone as wonderful as Matt wants to be with her, but she can't deny the incredible attraction between them, an attraction that has her doing things with him she'd never imagined, and she's loving every minute of it.<br /><br />Matt Diamond is initially amused by Lucy, the endearingly clumsy woman he meets at the cafe in his hometown.  He's not looking for anything serious, but he can't deny he finds her sexy, and before he knows it, he's asking her out.  He's intrigued by this shy temptress, and can't wait to make love to her.  She seems to want the same thing.  In fact, they can't keep their hands off each other.  She excites him with her willingness in bed, and he's beginning to think he's met the woman he's meant to be with.<br /><br />When a situation comes up that Matt can't avoid, he realizes he must abandon her on a very special night.  Not wanting to hurt her, he asks his twin brother Jake to pretend to be him and escort Lucy to this very important event.  All Jake has to do is make sure Lucy has a good time and then drop her off afterwards with her being none the wiser.  Only Jake becomes instantly infatuated with the sparkling Lucy, and incredibly turned on by her amorous advances.  He tries to get her drunk enough to pass out, guiltily tempted beyond belief by his brother's hot and incredibly sweet girlfriend.  What is he supposed to do when he realizes that he's falling in love with her, and doesn't want to let her go?  How can he stop himself from giving in to his overwhelming urge to make Lucy his, even if it's just for a night?<br /><br />Wow, this is one HOT read!  Lucy gets to experience the best of both worlds with two very incredibly sexy men and their different personalities in bed, though she doesn't realize it at the time.  Loving Matt has rid her of her inhibitions, and gives her a confidence to fully enjoy the sexual encounters she experiences with both men separately.  It is a bit disturbing that Lucy is unaware that she is sleeping with two different men, especially since she is in love, yet at the same time, this is a work of fiction, and the sin of omission makes the story hotter.  Boy does it ever!  Eventually the deception is found out, and Matt must find a way to win back his Lucy's heart.  His solution ends up being the fantasy of many women who long for such an arrangement.  Lucky Lucy, that's what I think!worlds with two very incredibly sexy men and their different personalities in bed, though she doesn't realize it at the time.  Loving Matt has rid her of her inhibitions, and gives her a confidence to fully enjoy the sexual encounters she experiences with both men separately.   It is a bit disturbing that Lucy is unaware that she is sleeping with two different men, especially since she is in love, yet at the same time, this is a work of fiction, and the sin of omission makes the story hotter.  Boy does it ever!  Eventually the deception is found out, and Matt must find a way to win back his Lucy's heart.  His solution ends up being the fantasy of many women who long for such an arrangement.  Lucky Lucy, that's what I think!     <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-11
US	38075043	R3GJ29U00CN6HU	0312934327	592337269	Sins of the Night (Dark-Hunter, Book 8)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Can't wait for the next one!	Dark Hunters are going rogue, and someone has come to stop them.  Alexion, aka defender, has come to Mississippi where widespread doubt and betrayal has invaded the minds of the Dark Hunters, thanx to an enemy of Acheron's that wants nothing more than to destroy him and all Ash holds dear - the Dark Hunters.<br /><br />Alexion has been sent to Dangereuse St. Richard, a female Dark Hunter than Acheron believes will try to help save the rogue Dark Hunters before their judgment.  He must overcome her distrust of him, and that is not going to be easy.  He has come to kill her friends, those who live as she does, so how can she help him knowing this?  Making this more difficult is Alexion's unwillingness to share information about Acheron, information that he insists is not his to share, and Acheron's refusal to interfere.  How can she trust either one of them if they are not willing to even help her understand what is going on?  She has been betrayed before by someone she trusted - she wasn't about to let it happen a second time.<br /><br />I've followed this series from the beginning, and I am constantly intrigued by the characters and histories Sherrilyn Kenyon creates.  While this isn't my favorite in the series, I also found it shed a lot of light on some past issues while continuing to tease us with hints and possibilities for upcoming stories.<br /><br />I can understand some of the more negative reviews because with a long-standing series, the expectations get greater, and we may not understand why things happen the way they do.  My disappointment was that we miss a lot of the characters from previous books, some of whom have been left hanging, and I'm anxious to \\"see\\" them and find out what happens.  But we learn more about Simi, even a little more about Ash, and something about the history of the Dark Hunters and Ash's \\"mistake\\".  That is what keeps me coming back - those tantalizing clues to what may or may not happen.<br /><br />I was happy with this book.  I admired the loyalty Ash and Alexion had between them, and I felt my heart go out to both Danger and Alexion for the pain they suffered, and while it's  predictable that they end up together, it's how it happens that is intriguing because it fits with the events that lead up to it.  Take nothing for granted with this series, and never think you know what's going to happen, because Sherrilyn Kenyon will do something different.th this book.  I admired the loyalty Ash and Alexion had between them, and I felt my heart go out to both Danger and Alexion for the pain they suffered, and while it's  predictable that they end up together, it's how it happens that is intriguing because it fits with the events that lead up to it.  Take nothing for granted with this series, and never think you know what's going to happen, because Sherrilyn Kenyon will do something different.	2005-07-04
US	38075043	R1U3SBM2D9YVNK	1419951696	665059741	Hot in the City 2: Sin City	Books	3	26	28	N	N	Indulge your fantasies in Sin City..	This is the 2nd book in Alexander's Hot In The City trilogy, and at first I thought Ms. Alexander was going to tell Lynda's story, who appeared in French Quarter as Liz Marsh's supportive friend.  But instead she writes about Liz's sister Diana, the wildest of the Marsh girls.  Maybe someday Lynda will get her own story.<br /><br />Diana has been flirting long-distrance with colleague Marc Davenport for months, but she's actually trying to tame her bad girl ways and settle down, maybe even get married.  A business trip to Las Vegas gives her the opportunity to have her last fling before accepting the marriage proposal of a man her family approves of, as well as explore the fascination her and Marc have for each other after several months of trading phone calls and emails.  Diana figures this is one place she can really let loose and give into her true nature with a man who shares her naughty sense of adventure and not judge her for it but rather indulge her every outrageous fantasy, as well as several of his own.  Almost right from the start the sex is non-stop and wild.  On their first night together after they meet, they share a wild ride in a limo, and that opens the doors to some very wild sexual encounters, many involving other people.<br /><br />While I did find this story very sexy, I would have much preferred that the characters have a strong emotional connection that is evident from the start, and I just didn't get that.  I couldn't help but be a little turned off by Diana's and Marc's first time together - which was spent with two of his friends who \\"enjoyed\\" Diana a little themselves.  Not that there is a problem with that because it is a very exciting fantasy - it just felt like something was missing. This continues in various scenarios with other people until finally you wish it was just the two of them spending time together.  I did feel a little like Diana's wild-child personality was the excuse to explore some of the more shocking multiple-partner encounters.  It wasn't until near the end that I could feel that there was something going on between Marc and Diana besides the sex.  True it was evident that they liked each other way before they met, but it seemed like it would have been very easy for either of them to walk away at any time.<br /><br />If you loved \\"French Quarter\\" like I did, you may be disappointed that Sin City doesn't have the same romantic longing between the two characters which worked so well in FQ.  Don't get me wrong: the sex is unbelievably hot and the sense of the forbidden heats up the story, but I would rather read an erotic romance than just plain erotica. Still, Ms. Alexander is a talented writer and I would definitely continue to read her stories.<br /><br />Many strong sexual themes are explored here, including menais a trois, same-sex, mild submission and domination, and voyeurism and may not be suitable for all readers, so if you pick this one up, be ready for some blistering hot sex scenes not found in your traditional romance novel.artner encounters.  It wasn't until near the end that I could feel that there was something going on between Marc and Diana besides the sex.  True it was evident that they liked each other way before they met, but it seemed like it would have been very easy for either of them to walk away at any time.  <br /> <br />If you loved \\"French Quarter\\" like I did, you may be disappointed that Sin City doesn't have the same romantic longing between the two characters which worked so well in FQ.  Don't get me wrong: the sex is unbelievably hot and the sense of the forbidden heats up the story, but I would rather read an erotic romance than just plain erotica. Still, Ms. Alexander is a talented writer and I would definitely continue to read her stories.     <br /> <br />Many strong sexual themes are explored here, including menais a trois, same-sex, mild submission and domination, and voyeurism and may not be suitable for all readers, so if you pick this one up, be ready for some blistering hot sex scenes not found in your traditional romance novel.	2005-06-29
US	38075043	R3P9U5YQF0NFAD	0972437762	758525583	The Possession	Books	5	22	22	N	N	"The Posession" is steamy and erotic!	Dr. Kris Torrence is a reserved woman with strong sexual fantasies that she's never acted out.  Feeling like life is passing her by, she decides to take drastic measures and signs up for a stay at an exclusive gentleman's resort where she can experience the submissive acts she longs for, yet keep her identity a secret at the same time.  All she has to do is get through the day and her adventure will begin.  But first she must deal with the infuriating Jack McKenna, the bane of her existence.  Their heated encounters leave her feeling edgy and reluctantly aroused.  But Kris would never get involved with a man who would expect complete obedience from her, not just in the bedroom.  She's too strong-willed for that.<br /><br />Jack McKenna loves redheads, and this one drives him absolutely crazy, though he can't figure out why.  He wants a willing and submissive woman, one who will welcome his dominance instead of fighting it, and Kris was the exact opposite of what he's looking for, but he can't stop fantasizing about her.  Determined to get her out of his system, he goes to Hotel Atlantis to drown in the pleasures the prissy Dr. Torrence  would never understand.  Only once he's there, he becomes intrigued by a sexy redhead who strongly reminds him of the doctor, only he cannot see her face.  Undaunted, he pursues her, convinced she may get him over his obsession.  As you can imagine, the two discover each other amidst the hedonism of the island, and after many challenges to keep them apart, they ultimately end up spending the rest of their time on the island together, and the results are explosive, wild and sexy, and will leave you breathless.<br /><br />Jaid Black is not the Queen of Steam for nothing!  This book is not for someone who enjoys sweet romances with your average amount of sensuality.  \\"The Possession\\" is about the taking over of a willing captive by a dominating man in an exploration of supposedly forbidden sexual fantasies.  While not completely about submission, this story does touch faintly on the subject of bondage and is a great start for someone slowly exploring these types of scenarios.  If you are looking for hard-core submission and/or multiple partners, you will not find it in this book.  This type of story is more of an erotic romance, with a traditional happy ending for two people who just happen to strongly enjoy the spicier side of lovemaking.  It's a happy medium for those who enjoy explicit sex scenes in their romances, and opening the doors to new experiences.  The language is raw and uncensored, however that may enhance the story for some readers.letely about submission, this story does touch faintly on the subject of bondage and is a great start for someone slowly exploring these types of scenarios.  If you are looking for hard-core submission and/or multiple partners, you will not find it in this book.   This type of story is more of an erotic romance, with a traditional happy ending for two people who just happen to strongly enjoy the spicier side of lovemaking.   It's a happy medium for those who enjoy explicit sex scenes in their romances, and opening the doors to new experiences.  The language is raw and uncensored, however that may enhance the story for some readers.	2005-06-28
US	38075043	R3FCFK07NUT020	0758208642	580306285	Ready	Books	5	6	7	N	N	"Ready" is all that and more!	Author Lise Barton has a little problem a.k.a. a stalker.  Being the independent soul she is, Lise refuses to even tell her family what is going on and instead moves from Texas to Seattle, believing it will keep her brother Jake and his family safe.  Only she doesn't count on the person becoming so persistent and following her to her new home where he begins to terrorize her with threats to her family.<br /><br />Joshua \\"Wolf\\" Watt has come to Seattle to bring her home for Thanksgiving.  His sister is married to Lise's brother, and so he knows how much family means to Lise.  Because of a passionate kiss they shared, he's convinced she ran to escape their intense attraction, and is determined to set her straight.  But when he finds her afraid in her own home, his instincts tell him something else is going on, and he's not about to let anything happen to her.<br /><br />Lise is wary when she first sees Joshua in her apartment.  She remembers how it felt to be in his arms, how strong her reaction is to him, and it scares her.  She doesn't want to lose herself to another person and she's certain that's exactly what would happen with Joshua.  But she also needs help, and as a trained soldier, Joshua can protect her, along with his trusted friends Hotwire and Nitro.  But will her be able to protect her from her own feelings?<br /><br />Ready is a combustible mix of suspense, danger, and sexual tension that will leave you breathless.  Lise is a woman who loves what she does, and cherishes the solitude it brings to her world.  While she seemed shy and reserved, she houses a wealth of strength and passion that has yet to be tested.  Joshua is just the man to test those qualities.  Living his own solitary world, he has seen and done things no one should ever have to experience, and can't believe love exists for someone like him.  But he can't ignore the feelings Lise brings out in him, and uses their forced seclusion to explore those feelings.  However when this assignment is over, will he be able to let her go?<br /><br />Lucy Monroe lets her talent for refreshingly genuine characters in familiar settings shine through in this romantic suspense novel.  The power of love is a strong theme in her writing, and she proves once again how it can conquer all.  I adored this book, and cannot wait for \\"Willing\\" and \\"Able\\", the other 2 books in this trilogy.ment is over, will he be able to let her go?   <br /> <br />Lucy Monroe lets her talent for refreshingly genuine characters in familiar settings shine through in this romantic suspense novel.  The power of love is a strong theme in her writing, and she proves once again how it can conquer all.  I adored this book, and cannot wait for \\"Willing\\" and \\"Able\\", the other 2 books in this trilogy.	2005-06-27
US	38075043	R3RNGJ6LJ676YC	1419950118	427241248	Hot in the City - French Quarter (Ellora's Cave Presents, Hot In The City)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	"French Quarter" is HOT, HOT, HOT!!!	This one is RED HOT!  If you like an adventurously erotic love story, you will love \\"French Quarter\\".  Set in the steamy town of New Orleans, temptation is something you give into, not something you avoid.<br /><br />Proper Liz Marsh suspects that her fiance is cheating on her, so with a suggestion from a friend, she goes to see PI Jack Wade.  Though Jack tells her he no longer takes cheating cases, he relents to her sweet persistence, intrigued by this provocative woman, and more than a little turned on by her.  Liz is helplessly attracteded to the sexy Cajun with the promise of sin in his eyes.  When Jack provides proof of her fiance's infidelity, she decides to throw caution to the wind and explore the intense attraction between the two of them, and Jack is more than happy to oblige.  Shedding inhibitions she's had for years, Liz discovers a side of herself she never knew existed, but revels in the freedom it gives her to act out her wildest fantasies.  With Jack along every step of the way, Liz gives free rein to her sexuality, doing whatever feels good.  Her new lover inspires a confidence and a sense of adventure that will leave you feeling the heat through each encounter.  He makes her feel safe yet also more of a woman than she's ever felt.<br /><br />WOW!  French Quarter is sizzling, and extremely erotic.  Yet at the core of this book is a romantic story, one of two people who fall in love while pushing the limits of their sexuality.  It's an explosive combination.  This story would not be as powerful if Liz and Jack did not have romantic feelings for each other almost from the beginning.  The connection between the two is strong, and the trust Liz gives to Jack is very empowering.  In turn, Jack's desire to see Liz happy and fulfilled reveals the emotions he cannot ignore for this special woman.  It is a true partnership in every sense of the word.  I loved it.	2005-06-27
US	38075043	R1VMMNLUCWNFP0	0821775146	137664794	Jamie (Visitation, Book 5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Jamie - He's Worth Waiting For!	If you are familiar with the wonderful Visitation series by Lori Foster, then chances are you've fallen a little bit in love with Jamie Creed. Now it's his turn to fall in love, and his story is as special as he is. He's mysterious, solitary, sexy, and prone to appearing when he's least expected, then disappearing without a trace. Jamie Creed didn't intend to become so attached to the people of Visitation, but it was in his nature to help when he was needed, and by doing so, he worked his way into the hearts of many. He never wanted anyone to get hurt, so he stayed up on his mountain, away from those who cared about him, in the hopes it would keep them safe. You see, Jamie has amazing abilities, and he had already been hurt once by people claiming to use those abilities for good. He doesn't want anyone else to be hurt because of him. But someone has found Jamie, someone he didn't expect has come to his mountain, and already he's opening up his heart to this woman named Faith, and her special daughter Cory, and starting to think that maybe he can have his own happy ending. Faith knows a side of Jamie and understands him better than he understands himself. But when signs of trouble start to appear, will he lose everything? Jamie is extraordinary, and it's wonderful to see him discover that he is worthy of love, more than he ever dreamed. Frequent interactions with characters from previous books make this story even more touching, and you laugh and cry as Jamie realizes how much he means to his friends. 'Jamie' is the perfect ending to a sexy, emotional, and amusing series that has touched many readers. Lori Foster is an exceptional writer who knows how to tug at your heart.	2005-06-09
US	38075043	R1CQ1NTVTL4OHE	0373124473	762762649	The Sheikh's Bartered Bride	Books	5	37	39	N	N	For Love or Country?	Lucy Monroe pens a lovely story about an innocent young woman who falls in love, only to find out her husband may not be the romantic sheikh or her dreams...or is he?<br /><br />Catherine Benning grew up shy and self-conscious, never feeling good enough for her family or for love, instead feeling like a burden and an embarrassment.  Yet when she reaches adulthood, things change, and she slowly comes out of her shell, enjoying a career and a hobby that she believes she shares with the man of her dreams.<br /><br />Sheikh Hakim bin Omar al Kadar knows his obligations.  To fulfill an agreement to bring an advanteous opportunity to his country, that obligation may be to marry the daughter of an American businessman.<br /><br />Once they meet, the two become involved in a whirlwind courtship, one that does them both good.  Catherine blossoms even more as she falls in love with her sheikh, and Hakim begins to see that marriage is more than an obligation but a partnership filled with respect, companionship and affection.  However when Catherine realizes the truth behind their meeting, will Hakim be able to convince her that she's the one he really wants?<br /><br />Lucy takes two very popular personality types of the Harlequin Presents line and breathes new life into both.  While shy and innocent, Catherine is not afraid to speak her mind and refuses to cower when arguing with her alpha husband.  Hakim may be a powerful sheikh, but he respects his wife and treats her as a woman, not as as property. You will fall in love right along with them, maybe even wanting a sheikh of your own.	2005-02-25
US	38075043	R30YD2J5SXGAXZ	0373836422	204581271	Men Of Courage II: Three New Stories	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Three times the Excitement!	Man against nature is a fascinating subject, and these three talented writers will keep you turning the pages with their heroic tales involving some of nature's most volatile and unpredictable weather.<br /><br />Lori Foster brings us a story of Liv and Hamilton, two people meant to be together, despite their different beliefs about life in the military.  Liv grew up with distant, cold memories of her family because of her father's military career, and is determined not to follow that path for herself, even if it means she can't be with the man she loves.  Ham is just as determined that Liv is the woman for him, but will having her mean he must give up the career, the life, he belongs to?  When a deadly tornado puts them in danger, will Liv be able to let go of the past and let herself be happy with the man of her dreams, who happens to be career military?  Ms. Foster tugs at your heartstrings with this emotional journey of the heart.<br /><br />Cooper and Marty are fearless storm chasers who've worked together in the past, even experiencing a passionate interlude while seeking shelter from a deadly twister, a fierce force of nature that calls to their adventurous spirits like a siren song.  After the encounter, they both go their separate ways, believing they are each at different points in their lives.  The wedding of a mutual friend brings Cooper and Marty back to a familiar place, yet they never expected to see each other under the same exact circumstances -seeking shelter from a deadly tornado.  This time, will they make it out alive, and if so, will it be so easy to walk away from each other?<br /><br />Wyatt and Leah were high school sweethearts, and Wyatt believed that they would be together forever, until Leah decides to leave smalltown life for the excitement of the big city.  When Leah returns years later, this time back to stay, Wyatt can't help but feel resentful of the way she waltzes back into his life so easily,  like she never broke his heart.  But when a deadly storm strands them on a houseboat, Wyatt realizes he's never stopped loving her, and can think of only getting them out alive so he can spend the rest of his life proving it to her.<br /><br />Lori Foster, Donna Kauffman and Jill Shalvis delight with their heartfelt writing, wonderfully capturing the essence of some truly brave heroes and heroines.  Whether in the military or some other dangerous occupation, heroes are all around us.his heart.  But when a deadly storm strands them on a houseboat, Wyatt realizes he's never stopped loving her, and can think of only getting them out alive so he can spend the rest of his life proving it to her. <br /> <br />Lori Foster, Donna Kauffman and Jill Shalvis delight with their heartfelt writing, wonderfully capturing the essence of some truly brave heroes and heroines.   Whether in the military or some other dangerous occupation, heroes are all around us.  <br />	2005-02-16
US	38075043	R17WOQP98BJ48C	075820843X	859045061	Mouth To Mouth	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Mouth to Mouth is a tempting treat!	A con man brought them together...Laurel and Russ were both waiting for the same person, only for different reasons.  Laurel was waiting to find romance, while Russ was looking for a fraud.<br /><br />Laurel was determined to find some excitement in her life, so why not start by actually meeting face to face with the charming man she's been chatting with on-line?<br /><br />Russ was just as determined to arrest the con man who's been romancing lonely women in order to steal from them.  Laurel seemed to be his next target, however she didn't fit the normal profile.  Instead of a plain, desperate woman waiting in that coffee shop, he meets sexy yet innocent Laurel, who gets his blood racing, and seems to think HE is the one she's looking for.<br /><br />Russ is drawn to Laurel, admires her pluck and sassiness, and wants to take care of her, despite the fact he's not the marrying kind.  Laurel is attracted to the sexy cop but has no intention of letting him take over her life.  Neither one is looking for love, but sometimes life has a funny way of giving you not what you ask for, but rather for what you need.<br /><br />Oh my gosh, Mouth to Mouth is one of those sexy reads that constantly rewards you with delightful moments of laughter and tenderness.  Erin McCarthy's inventive love scenes and poignant emotion never overwhelm the more serious issues, but rather enhance the romantic journey Russ & Laurel find themselves taking.  A secondary romance lends humor and additional sexual tension, yet doesn't distract from the main characters.  This book is one to be savored, and definitely satisfies the sweet tooth in us all.	2005-01-11
US	38075043	R3HE5VSXCILPIZ	037375051X	4516693	A Cowboy And A Kiss	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Oops, Dianne Castell has done it again!	I admit to not being much of a fan of the cowboy stories, but Dianne Castell's talent for writing them is quickly changing my mind.  If you have not read a Castell book, this is a perfect place to start.<br /><br />Sophie Addison is a reserved financial attorney from Reno who makes her way to Tranquility, Texas to do a favor for her best friend, Sunny Kelly, a Reno showgirl: sell her recently deceased aunt's old saloon, the Smokehouse, so Sunny can settle some debts.<br /><br />However when Sophie gets to Texas, she has an accident that leaves her without any memory of her previous life and is soon convinced that she is Sunny Kelly.  Only instead of wanting to sell the saloon, she sees it as a great opportunity to help out a lot of people in town, especially the women of Tranquility.<br /><br />The only thing standing in her way is the hottie cowboy Gray McBride who wants the Smokehouse saloon sold so he can build a bigger firehouse in its place and make good on a promise he made to the town if he was elected mayor, as well as a personal one he made to himself for his family.  There's no way he was going to let this blonde, sassy showgirl get in his way.<br /><br />Only sparks have a way of flying whenever those two are around each other, and as determined as they both are to succeed in their own mission, it becomes obvious that falling in love changes everything.  Especially when the real Sunny shows up and Sophie's memory returns.<br /><br />This book was sweet, funny, and sexy - a wonderful heartwarming story with enough heat to warm up those cold winter nights.  Dianne Castell writes so wonderfully about small towns and cowboys that it sure does sound tempting to find one - the town AND the cowboyd.  Each of Dianne's books gets better and better.  I can't wait for the next one!	2004-12-31
US	38075043	R3HMFJ5YZY3CKF	0758203403	872865252	Just a Hint--Clint (Visitation, Book 4)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another trademark Foster keeper!	There's more than just a hint of Clint in this continuing series, and fans will not be disappointed by what they \\"see\\".<br /><br />When reserved heiress Julie Rose is kidnapped, fiance Robert hires Clint Evans to find her and bring her back home.  Though Clint doesn't trust Robert, he knows he can't let a woman be harmed, so he sets out with trusted back-up to find Julie Rose and bring her back safely.<br /><br />When Clint rescues Julie Rose, he's amazed at her bravery in such a dangerous situation, yet feels her fascination with him is one of hero worship.  Julie Rose has never felt what she's feeling for Clint, and tries to convince him that not only is she not engaged, she's also very much interested in him as a man, not as a hero.<br /><br />When Clint is unable to figure out who kidnapped Julie Rose, he decides to keep her with him while he investigates.  Easier said than done.  Their attraction is overwhelming and Clint begins to truly care for this independent woman who cares nothing for her inheritance and would rather be a teacher, living on her own terms.  With Clint, Julie Rose feels she can truly be the woman she's always wanted to be, and sees a man she can love.<br /><br />As danger surrounds them, familiar friends from Visitation come to help protect Julie Rose and Clint from an unexpected villain.  Fans will delight in the latest addition to the Visitation series.  Clint is strong, sexy, and old-fashioned about protecting his woman.  Julie Rose is a woman who's beauty on the inside shows on the outside when she is able to follow her heart and the path she's chosen for herself.  And Visitation is a place everyone wishes to go and find lasting love, true friends, and generous spirits, not to mention: Jamie Creed.	2004-09-22
US	38075043	RKKSEYEBRN9D4	075820860X	163887114	The Real Deal	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Real Deal is the genuine article!	Harlequin Presents author Lucy Monroe has ventured into the exciting world of Brava, and will wow you with her first contribution, \\"The Real Deal\\".  Watch for more to come from this talented writer.<br /><br />Amanda Zachary is a junior executive on the rise at Extant Corporation, and she's about to negotiate a deal that will bring her one step closer to her goal of being the youngest executive in the company.  All she has to do is complete a merger between Extant and Brant Computers, and with Eric Brant, the president, in favor of the merger, she's confident she will close the deal in no time.  She doesn't count on Eric's cousin, Simon, to bring her plans to a screeching halt.  Or to attract her so intensely.<br /><br />As the person in charge of research and development, Simon Brant is a scientist who doesn't think like other people.  His days are filled with formulas and experiments, and the only schedule he follows is his own.  But when he feels his family's company is about to be destroyed by a merger, Simon knows he can't let that happen to the employees of Brant Computers.  No matter how beautiful Amanda Zachary is.<br /><br />Having been hurt before, Amanda is determined to ignore the attraction and convince the stubborn scientist how beneficial the merger would be for both companies.  Simon is just as determined to make sure the merger doesn't happen, and fights his desire for Amanda.  They are from two different worlds, and those worlds just don't mesh.<br /><br />Wow, Simon is wildly irresistible.  Lucy Monroe has created a dynamic hero whose intelligence is extremely sexy, and his insecurities about himself are endearing.  Amanda is  confident when it comes to business, but when it comes to relationships, she's a shy, reserved woman who past experience has made her unsure around men.  Together, these two set the pages on fire!  Simon sees Amanda as a sexy, voluptuous woman that must have men constantly chasing after her, and Amanda sees past Simon's looks to his lonely, vulnerable side, a result of growing up too fast.  Throw in a prickly housekeeper by the name of Jacob, and you've got an addictive mix of passion and humor.  You will LOVE this book!Simon's looks to his lonely, vulnerable side, a result of growing up too fast.  Throw in a prickly housekeeper by the name of Jacob, and you've got an addictive mix of passion and humor.  You will LOVE this book! <br /> <br />	2004-09-06
US	38075043	R32NKNHGZ6FNLO	075820597X	314080782	Houston, We Have A Problem	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Houston is HOT!	Houston may have a problem, but readers won't with this wonderful, sexy story.<br /><br />When we first meet Dr Houston Hayes, he is tempted beyond reason by the lush curves of resident Josie Adkins, who is constantly within his immediate reach.  With her penchant for dropping things, his normally professional mind is laden with erotic fantasies when faced with her charms.  How is a doctor supposed to keep his mind on work when faced with such temptation?<br /><br />Dr. Houston Hayes is so hot that he makes Josie nervous.  And when she's nervous, she drops things.  Noted for her competence and excellent way with the patients, this clumsy turn of events is beginning to wear on Josie's nerves.  All her life she's struggled for people to see beyond the dimples and perky attitude.  How can she be taken seriously as a surgeon if she can't even hold onto a flipchart?<br /><br />Then Houston proposes what he believes to be a practical solution: one night of passion to ease the sexual tension between them and let things get back to normal.  After all, it shouldn't take more than that, and as long as they both agree to the terms, no one is in danger of losing their heart.<br /><br />Oh, that's what he thinks!  Houston doesn't count on the way Josie makes him feel, and she's not sure she can pretend nothing's happened between them.  When events happen that have both of them questioning their chosen paths, it becomes obvious that the only problem they have is not following their hearts.<br /><br />Erin McCarthy has done it again!  Houston is a sexy loner who doesn't believe he's worthy of a long-term relationship and Josie is intelligent and charming, blessed with a generous heart yet unaware of her own appeal.  Kudos to Erin for creating a heroine we can all relate to on some level.  It makes their \\"happily ever after\\" that much sweeter.  And anxious for McCarthy's next book!	2004-09-02
US	38075043	RNH86STYNARID	0821775138	864591503	When Bruce Met Cyn (Visitation, Book 3)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Sweet, Sexy story! Loved It!	Cyn Potter is an ex-hooker who's looking to better her life.  What better place than Visitation, the place that calls to her in her dreams?<br />Bruce Kelly, on his way back to Visitation, is a preacher who loves to help others, and when he sees Cyn Potter being treated roughly by a truck driver at a truck stop, his protective instincts kick in.<br />Once the matter is resolved, Cyn reluctantly agrees to accompany Bruce on his way home.  She's confused by his honorable intentions, having never been treated well by men, and he's smitten with the spirited young woman who's determined to make it on her own.<br />As they get to know each other, it becomes obvious to everyone but them how perfect they really are for each other.  Cyn doesn't think she deserves such goodness in her life, and Bruce is afraid to take advantage of her, as she'd been so many times in her young life.  But their attraction is overwhelming, and hints at the love that can bring them the happiness they both deserve.<br />However Cyn's past is catching up with her, and with a firm warning from the mysterious Jamie Creed, Cyn knows she must face it before she can truly get past it.  Only now she doesn't have to do it alone.<br />Fans will adore Bruce & Cyn, who bring tears to your eyes with their sweet, sexy romance, and enjoy revisiting the citizens of Visitation while longing for Jamie's own story.  Another winner from the wonderful Lori Foster!	2004-07-05
US	38075043	R2898JEA481C0P	0758207727	736286586	Perfect for the Beach (Dean Brothers)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Perfect for the Beach, and then some!	\\"Some Like It Hot\\" were scorching. I thought Nora was just plain adorable, and who wouldn't want a sexy guy like Cary pursuing her?!  I enjoyed how the hero's friends got involved when feelings were revealed.  It adds a wonderful mixture of humor to an intense romance.  Loved it!<br /><br />Janelle Denison's \\"Wilde Weekend\\" was a wonderful, refreshing story in that the heroine was a bit older and it was already an established romance. I really liked how Janelle didn't create unnecessary, lame conflict but rather had the h/h deal with their feelings upfront, which made it more rewarding.  Plus, it was another story about those sexy Wilde men, and who doesn't enjoy them?!<br /><br />If ever I'm at the beach and suffer from a similar dilemma, I hope that a hottie lifeguard like Kyle is there to rescue me! ;)  Very hot, and Sara was a very lucky woman.  Plus, smart is very sexy.  \\"Blue Crush\\" was a decadent, wonderful treat, and perfect for the beach.<br /><br />\\"My Thief\\" was funny and romantic and charming - and of course hot! - and reinforces my admiration of Mary Janice Davidson's writing.  Robin was a firecracker, and Johnny Crusher was irresistible from their first encounter.  And I can't forget to mention Uncle Rich - what a hoot!<br /><br />\\"Hot and Bothered\\" is the first story I've read by Kayla Perrin, but it won't be my last.  I really liked Trey from the first moment I \\"met\\" him, and I thought Jenna was a sensitive, lovely woman with a passionate heart that truly belonged to Trey. Their story was sexy and sweet, and I breathed a sigh of happiness at their HEA.  I hope Ruby gets her own story!<br /><br />I forgot how much I wanted to read about Kat & Sam, secondary characters from your Wild Dreams anthology, until I started reading their story.  Wow, Sam was devastating (in a sexy, intense way, of course), and I felt for Kat as a caring woman who didn't want to cause the man she loved emotional pain.  \\"Murphy's Law\\" was a little bittersweet, but that enhanced their romance, and I was eagerly anticipating the moment they would finally give into their feelings.  It was well worth it.<br /><br />I loved this anthology, and each story was a gem.heir romance, and I was eagerly anticipating the moment they would finally give into their feelings.  It was well worth it.<BR> <BR>I loved this anthology, and each story was a gem.	2004-06-09
US	38075043	R3R7LQAD35TC20	0758205953	373656344	Smart Mouth	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fun, sexy read!	Erin Mc Carthy is a treasure and I'm glad I discovered her writing.  This book was so much fun.  Following Reese & Derek on their sexy adventure was a blast and unexpectedly sweet.  I can't wait to see what else this author comes up with.	2004-04-25
