US	38123720	R1CS3T1WOLDIUL	0743272935	412606618	The Good Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Compelling Epic	\\"The Good Earth\\" by Pearl S. Buck was a compelling read. I thoroughly was overcome by the diversity and frugalness of Wang Lung at the beginning of the story. His quiet humility in the start of the book over his young new wife.<br /><br />This book held my interest for days. I could not put it down. I wanted to see how life progressed for this famil.y It appeared that Wang Lung through his humility and meagerness that he began to prosper. Thus, turning his small beginning with the purchase of a piece of land into a mighty clan.	2005-02-15
US	38123720	R1M6HV3E1P6P8H	0385411723	746725592	Family	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting	I enjoyed this book it really symbolizes the overall fabric of American society. This book is about how through loss and tragedy things have a uniquely interesting way of working themselves out. Family is also about how we as a people are all interwoven through our lives.  <br /> <br />Sometimes through pain one kind truly triumph in the midst of a storm. The pain can be overwhelming but yet it can be trampled upon valiantly.	2005-02-15
US	38123720	R2BIP8OL2OY24L	0060929782	318363039	Black Boy (The Restored Text Established by The Library of America) (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Rain Fell but Wright Wrote Truth From His Heart	This book is profound! It projects the life-story of an African American man-child in America during the early Twentieth century. Wright talks so frank and vividly about life as an African American and that of a man-child during a time of racial discord and divisions. Fear is etch upon every page. This book gripped me. It demonstrated such hunger. And assured hunger. Driven by desire. And intellect. Wright etches his a horror story the pages of his first written manuscript, a draft, that he shares with a neighbor female friend. Ahhh what a friend. If only she knew at the time for her light and enthusiasm a purpose was born into Wright. <br /> <br />The thing that caught my eye while reading this book was not about how his life was in the beginning. It was hard. But what really captured me was how he described the writing of his first piece. He describe the glow of the young female neighbors eyes and the amazement and the light that shown when she was so impressed with his written \\"words\\". The light that shone in her eyes upon reading something that he made. That he constructed! <br /> <br />From an educator's perspective whenever one can remember vivid details of one's life there's always a certain dividend of time that has been ascertain through trauma. Nevertheless, despite such a traumatic life he did remarkably well with what he had. He wrote. Which to me is a testimony to all and any writer.  <br /> <br />Sometimes life can be filled with such an intensity of tragedy and discord that all one can do is promise oneself a memoir of sorts. . .  To mark the seconds, minutes, hours, days, months, and even years in which one had to endure such dreadful things. Because the rain can fall and is falling so hard in a life that one can nearly drown in their own tears. <br /> <br />Rain did fall in Richard Wright's life but he wrote truth from his heart. . . And thus, the legend.	2005-02-14
US	38123720	R15IW6KIG9VBNF	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Growing Thread	The story begans with Janie's return home. She begins to tell a story to one of her acquaintances from the town in which she left. She begans to spin her tale of times in which she lived with her grandmother on a white family's land. She tells of how her grandmother wanted her to marry before she died. Janie quietly protests her end of innocence and with the obedience of a child quietly marries and old field hand who had acquired much in the eyes of her grandmother. She later becomes smitten by a young man with a dream, and quietly sneaks off and makes love to him while her husband is at work. She later while frying corn pone or some type of bread for her husband decides to meet her lover and make his dreams her dreams. While doing this she lives a financially priveleged life of quiet abuse and loveless nights. Her husband dies and later Janie finds herself over a substantial estate and businesses. She is lonely and finds time to reflect. Later, while enjoying her quiet freedom she happens upon a sharply dressed drifter by the name of Tea Cake who captures her heart. Once again, she abandons her present life in search of adventure and fun. <br /> <br />This story is beautifully written in an unusual venicular. I thoroughly enjoyed it and at parts of this book I even cried. I was stunned by the similarities of this character with life as well as the life of others in whom I call friend. I noticed the singular thread that was so well woven in the life of Janie. She did not attain true freedom until she really understood and knew herself. I can understand that her grandmother did not want to leave her \\"uncovered\\" after she was gone (meaning without anyone to care for her). She wanted Janie to have better covering than and security than she presently had. The author's choice of title was not by fluke, it was apparent that in the midst of the storm that all she and Tea Cake could do was keep their eyes upon God. It was through the storm that affirmed their love and it was because of the storm that tore them apart. <br /> <br />The thread that I mentioned earlier was apparent even more after she married her first husband. My discernment was that the character still enjoyed her freedom, but out of a certain desire for security was uncertain as to exactly what freedom that she longed for and desired. I feel that after she met her second husband the young go-getter. She felt that at last her dreams could be fulfilled. But later there is disappointment by way of physical and verbal abuse. <br /> <br />There seems to be a thread a growing thread and throughout the book it is woven and finally connected into a final bow. In the last segment we see how life changes Janie. Through her circumstances and through her own personal \\"storm\\" she this time chooses a rainbow in which her life though tumulous at times still has signifies magnificent growth and intense meaning.	2005-02-11
US	38123720	R1YJGKZR47GH2R	0590454366	923929034	Cousins (rev) (pb)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Sad	This book was good it was sad that the cousin that tried so hard to be accepted was lost forever in the end. I feel this book has a lot to say to young readers in terms of relationships. People are not always going to be around forever so it is best to love them where they are at.	2004-12-30
US	38123720	RNW8B347HI670	0385471076	629002730	A Taste of Power: A Black Woman's Story	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent Biographical Read	I enjoyed Elaine Brown's book &quot;A Taste of Power: A Black Woman's story was by far the most engaging read in terms of an autobiography that I have ever encountered. I was totally drawn in by the author's life experiences and strength. She gained in grace as one gains in the hardships of life.	2003-10-26
US	38123720	RSLRCON5YW9G4	0897895355	139805557	Success Factors of Young African-American Males at a Historically Black College	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Let the Truth Be Told	I thoroughly enjoyed this book by Dr.Marilyn J. Ross. She explained the reasons why African-American males tend to have a better chance at success in historically black colleges, and personally I believe that they do. They have a better chance of receiving academic help, encouragement, and assistance. Not only that there are more opportunities for learned networking through fraternal organizations, church organizations, and special interest groups.<br />I can honestly state that some of my strongest relationships and bonds where created while attending a historically black college. There I learned how to work hard, and become more aware as to what matters most . . . A sound faith, strong ties with my family, intense study, and community endeavors that support cultural awareness as a whole.	2003-08-21
US	38123720	R1176DQ93Y0EUM	0534603009	593362704	Becoming an EC-4 Teacher in Texas	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Exttremely Well Put Together . . .	This book is extremely well put together. I credit this book for the successful passing of the TEXES. I read this book from cover to cover, it not only gave me pertinent information for passing the TEXES but it was an excellent read as well.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who is struggling to pass any of the TEXES PPR examinations.  This guide is essential for anyone who is serious about becoming a teacher in the state of Texas not only will you feel confident in passing your examination, but you will have gained the necessary knowledge as to how to shine as a teacher as well!<br />Wonderful book -- need I say more . . .	2003-08-19
US	38123720	R3IXHHMCJVWSTW	0452283868	921712930	Sula (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Incredible	This book was absolutly incredible, mind-boggling, and creative. It left me hungry and yet sad. I was moved at the beginning descriptions of each individual character, but was completely astounded by the events that took place in each women's life as children to shape their individual adult lives. Sula -- sultry, seductive, mistress, and harlot, and Nel -- calm, meek, introverted, and homely. <br />Each women contributed to their own unique lives and situations, by a series of \\"divine choices and chance\\" nothing ventured or gained . . . Primarily to choke the life upon the life that was given. Sula I believed suffered from inward denial and a sense of a wounded soul, all shielded by a natural indifference of what is right, proper, or politically correct. She goes against any framework or all that was ever know. Collectively, she takes that which is her all that was ever absorbed from the women in her life and rolls it into a sophisticated Jezebel.  Admiringly. The women in \\"the valley\\" can't stand her. The men don't know what to think of her -- exactly (she lives them breathless and without words\\"). Yet, she lives a lonely life of intimate isolations. The affair with Nel's husband drives her further from her childhood friend, whom she loved . . . A mere reflection of the girl child -- herself.  Longing is what separates this women, and through all of her lovers there's no satisfation to be gained.<br />Nel on the other hand, suffocates the very thing she desires to be which is simply that, just the ability to be.  Caught up in another's game, always longing to play a vital role in something. (I suppose that what draws the characters of both Sula and Nel together, because each possess a characteristic that the other would like).  Nel comes off as sweet and innocent in comparison to the bodacious Sula.  It appears that everything that ever was in Nel's life was undoubtly shared with her best friend all the way down to the man she loved.<br />This book is incredible.I gleaned so much from reading it. The lessons in this book are as real as my hands and my feet. I learned from Sula that environment is everything. There will forever be watchful eyes and hungry ears. Just beacause it so don't make the individual that one was \\"then\\" to what one is \\"now\\".<br />And . . . from Nel I learned that everyone needs a voice. To smother someone else's true identity, regardless as to whether its acceptable or agreeable to another is  a crime shame. Its rather a blessing to be allowed the ability to show emotion despite whether it is good or not. And by all means never be nobody's doormat -- It doesn't matter who it is.<br />I believe that Toni Morrison's main message in Sula is that loving oneself is essential, but to become an isle in a sea is indeed a task. To hold oneself, to say her I am, I am strong, no crack can break me . . . Well, that's untrue everyone needs someone.  Sula needed Nel despite all that happened between them and Nel needed Sula.  Loving oneself is good, but loving each other and forgiving another covers a heap o' troubles.	2003-08-19
US	38123720	RT4BHGRUJIEFC	0525469265	572423975	Double Fudge	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Double Fudge is Awesome--Loved It	I thoroughly enjoyed \\"Double Fudge\\". . . This book once again focuses on the book's main character Farley Drexel Hatcher (B.K.A. \\"Fudge\\"). He is absolutely hilarious in this book. His obsession with money, his twin cousins and their little brother nicknamed \\"Mini\\", along with their parents are another interesting twist in this story. Peter Hatcher, Fudge's  older brother, who is now an official \\"junior high school student\\",  typically experiences all of the anxiety that is associated with  early adolesence.  <br />This book made me laugh and laugh, especially the reaction of Mr. Hatcher when he discovers that their his cousins  want to stay at their house longer than a week. <br />I was also able to put myself in  many of the situations and generally grasp a feel each of the characters.<br />The first book that I ever read in the Fudge series was \\"Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing\\" followed by \\"Superfudge\\". I can remember attending Jefferson Elementary School in Little Rock, Arkansas waiting in line for what seemed like an infinity, to have first bid on checking out that book. I became a \\"reader beaver\\" thanks to Judy Blume and the wonderful staff at Jefferson Elementary who encouraged all students to build their foundation through reading. I used to walk swifly through the library with the rest of my classmates running straight towards the \\"B\\" fiction section --shouting, \\"Ready or not here I come.\\"<br />This is an excellent read, and it is authors like Judy Blume who grasp the interest of young readers by  making her work interesting and identifiable to young readers. Thank you Ms. Judy Blume for providing great reading material for children of all ages!	2003-03-28
US	38123720	R1VVO3AGRKV0QX	044842889X	254963489	Who Was Harriet Tubman?	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Excellent Read	Yona Zeldis McDonough did a wonderful job describing \\"Who Was Harriet Tubman? I read this book as a part of a Social Studies Unit on African American History to my Kindergarten class they were totally immersed. Even though the audience of students were young. They still answered the comprehension questions that I frequently asked through out the book exceedingly well. <br />The reason why I selected McDonough's book over other books about Harriet Tubman was that it spoke of all aspects of history that occurred at that particular time. <br />As a child I had studied Nat Turner, Abraham Lincoln, and of course Harriet Tubman, but it was amazing how many historical events occurred that she was an active part of.<br />I feel that after reading this particular story that I have learned a great deal about an important icon in African American History, reading this book has enabled me to trace the beginnings of all beginnings. Harriet Tubman was truly a phenomenal women. She gave of herself again and again . . . By assisting others to freedom through The Underground Railroad, her service in the Union Army, and her many years of service as a nurse.<br />As I read this book to my class they emphasized that they could literally see the scenes as I was reading them. Some of the terminology was  intense and I used appropriate wording to make it age-appropriate for my students.<br />Either way this is an excellent read for all -- and I hope to check out more books by this very informative author!	2003-03-14
US	38123720	R3GTKMRD34DCY	1880032627	76490439	Creative Visualization: Use the Power of Your Imagination to Create What You Want in Your Life	Books	5	7	9	N	N	This book is EXCELLENT	I used this book for different areas of my life. Everything that I believed in my to be -- was! I changed my thoughts. I began to view myself differently--more postively and things in my life began to change. Instead of attracting the same type of negative energy I began to attract postive people, places, experiences, and events all because I changed my mind and began to experience love and loving for the first time in my life. Love is Good for me!<br />This book is excellent I recommend it for people everywhere!	2003-01-24
US	38123720	R1K9ZGROEAD7BA	1929125003	270458281	When God Writes Your Love Story	Books	4	17	18	N	N	I USED TO THINK THIS BOOK WAS UNREALISTIC . . .	But thanks to &quot;A Reader&quot;, from the West Coast I was able to give life a chance . . . I accepted Jesus into my life as Lord, and finally learned to love myself.<br />I feel that my earlier opinion of this book was crowded by bitterness and self-hatred. No one wants to be alone, and after discovering the true un-failing mercy of a loving God. I can honestly say that the healing has begun.<br />Thank you &quot;A Reader&quot; from the West Coast for all of the scriptual references . . . It was the very thing that made me turn my life around. I believe that there is love out there for me -- However I feel that the GREATEST relationship and love is my developing relationship with Jesus.	2003-01-24
US	38123720	R3RD51IQJ0197C	1929125003	270458281	When God Writes Your Love Story	Books	1	13	32	N	N	A BIT UNREALISTIC -- -- ONLY IF YOU ARE PERFECT	This book is for the perfect -- God's chosen. If you are not all that you could be or if you don't have everything in order like these two -- people loving you, a perfect family, a perfect daddy to say &quot;Yes, you can win my daughters's heart.&quot; It is not for the broken-hearted, discouraged, melancholy, depressed, lonely, rejected or suicidal soul that cries herself to sleep every night wondering if she will ever have a chance at love. It is only for the one's that God really(x 1 million) loves. I have had to face it that God does not love me like he loves the rest of his daughters. I've accepted it, but I still love him even though I am not perfect.  I have had some real battles in my life, and it would have been all but wonderful to have a husband who loved me and cared about me to help me get through it. To put their strong arms around me and tell me that it would be okay. It is a extremely cold out their -- but this book can help but its only for the perfect.	2002-11-26
US	38123720	R3BM143O58T5Z0	0671727796	730655858	The Color Purple	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Excellent Read	This is one of my favorite books of all time. Alice Walker creates a character who in the beginning is afraid of her own shadow. She learns that through perserverance and steadfastness that she can come out smelling like a rose on the other side. Her misfortunes began as soon as her marriage to Mister is sealed through the customary consummation. She fights for an inward voice that is expressed unconditionally through her relationship with her sister, Nettie. Mister finds Nettie to be incredibly beautiful, yet the feeling is not mutual. He pursues her indefinitely, until finally he kicks her out of his home.<br />Mister is a tyrant to Celie who succumbs to his continual physical and verbal abuse. She is mesmerized by the town whore Shug, and discovers a secret place within her self whenever she beholds even a flyer stating that the woman is in town or nearby.<BR>Mister eventually moves his mistress, Shug, into their home where an unlikely bond is formed between her and Celie.<br />The book suggest that Shug serves as a savior, a guide, and even a lover to the folorn, beaten down, Celie.  Celie decides to take charge of her life, once she finds that Mister had with-held the letters in which her sister, Nettie, had written her over the years. She begins to show a hidden strength which the author suggest was there all along. It is clear to see in the earlier part of the novel, that perhaps Alice Walker was building Celie's character for this amazing confrontation between her adversary Mister during a family Easter meal. It seems that this in many can be seen by the reader as a sort of resurrection of sorts. This begins the initial climax in the story in which she decides that she will no longer be a victim, but an overcomer in life.<br />This has got to be one of the most intriguing pieces of literature that I have ever read. This book holds fast to letting women know that they too can be free. It really has nothing to do with race, socio-economic status, or rank in society, if you are a victim, you can choose to be free. <br />I thoroughly appreciate this book it allowed me to view my life differently, and to view the lives of women around me differently as well. Just because someone seems to have it all, there is always an underlying trace of pain. No one has it perfect -- we are all but mere survivors; overcomers in a daily game call life.	2002-11-18
US	38123720	R2JS1U1Q079GEK	0074158082	644166916	Life-Span Development	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Wonderful Educational Resource	This book describes the very essence of life in a definite and distinctive way. There are no underlying factors or confusing verbage. The reader can simply investigate a topic of interest while receiving the information in its complete totality.<br />The format of this book is simply wonderful. Santrock does an excellent job in allowing the reader to not only expand upon early life-span development . . . But he also introduces the reader to the various theories that helped  shaped life-span development. In this book you learn of Vygotsky, Erickson, and Piaget and many, many others.<br />I personally found this book to be of great help during my graduate studies. It provided me with practically everything that I needed on the subject of &quot;development&quot; and was a #1 source of reference in all practicums and papers. <br />I am exceedingly happy that this book has renewed another edition and look forward to adding this updated version to my already sprawling collection.	2002-11-17
US	38123720	RMA51I7WLB9A0	0399221336	989448642	Chicken Sunday	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Touching Story	This book speaks volumes . . . especially how a life can be changed forever through a simple act of  love and kindness. It seemed that Miss Eula was a beautiful person who just loved and cared for everyone around her by continually demonstrating the true principles of faith, hope, and love. <br />This book truly emphasizes those things that matter most: a faith in God, a loving family, and good friends. <br />Chicken Sunday was not only heart-warming and touching, but to me it clearly stated the importance of allowing that little \\"light\\" within our hearts to shine no matter what!<br />This book is an excellent educational tool, and can be easily used in various thematic units such as: family and friends. <br />I have always enjoyed Patricia Polacco books and will continue to read them to my loved ones and classes for many, many years to come!	2002-11-17
US	38123720	R1ZT3W4VJKN0UC	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good	I read this book for the first time when I was 15 years old. I thought it was mere happenstance that I encountered it, and every since that first introduction it has stayed on my mind every since.<br />Sylvia Plath was one of the most interesting writers of our time. She wrote what she felt and rarely has there ever been another like her or will there ever be. <br />I feel that the mere emphasis on depression in her book was indeed a wake up call for many during that time. During the 1950's people did not readily express their emotions, basically what wasn't socially acceptable was generally locked up inside. It was no accident that Plath chose to write about her own neurotic feelings from the perspective of someone on the outside looking in.<br />I clearly believe that Plath was desperately relaying her feelings in terms of the constant hopelessness and utter betrayal that she possibly felt as a brilliant,young, white woman during the 1950's who was relatively endowed with all the possibilities that one could ever hope for but still utterly depressed, lonely, and confused.<br />This book gives wonderful insight for those who are depressed,lonely, and confused. Plath actually comes to a sort of numbness when she realizes that the planning and hoping as it might be to be the best is not all that it is cracked up to be.<br />This book is brilliant, and unfortunately Plath committed suicide during her short life and career. Sometimes, I ponder about what could have been if she had lived just a little bit longer. We all face times in which we are unsure but we must strive to continue on.<br />&quot;The Bell Jar&quot; was and will always be one of the best books that I have ever read. Its not like &quot;Lisa Black and Dark&quot; or any other dark literature that I can recall at this time. It is because it is a real encounter of a real woman in search of love, comfort, and truth.	2002-11-17
US	38123720	R3TPRONPQACHQ4	0451159527	173885046	To Be Young, Gifted and Black: An Informal Autobiography (Signet)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	I Can Relate	I remember reading this book thinking that I could relate to the author perfectly well. Though I am not a playright, I do understand a lot of what she is saying. There should and will never be a borderline or a glass ceiling or anything else to hold me down. You are who you are regardless of what is . . . There is no turning back only that which is to be gained and won.<br />When I think of Lorraine Hansberry I think of a woman who achieved the impossible in an impossible time. She completed her plays with such intensity and flair . . . As if she lived and researched each every act.<BR> <BR>Nevertheless, I feel that Hansberry was stating that to be &quot;Young, gifted, and black,&quot; is clearly to be aware of who and what you are . . . and to take this knowledge of who and what you are and to run with it. Taking a chance when given a chance, or rather taking a chance and creating an opportunity with merely a bit of the gift that you had.<br />I will always remember what Thurgood Marshall, he basically stated that &quot;He did the best with what he had.&quot; Is that being merely good or is that being the best.  I believe that the concept of this book is not to be mistaken. I believe Hansberry is saying, &quot;Hey sister, hold your head up high. It does not matter what this world thinks of you. It only merely matters about what you can do for yourself and your fellowman. Do you know your gifts? Hey write it down. You are worth perfecting.&quot;<br />Lorraine Hansberry did wonders in her lifetime she did so much for her community and her fellowman. My question to myself and others is . . . What about your gifts? Hey write them down. They are worth perfecting.	2002-11-17
US	38123720	RRD5AKOY2OZYI	0877900361	49943533	The Miracle of Fasting: Proven Throughout History for Physical, Mental and Spiritual Rejuvenation	Books	5	21	23	N	N	This is the one of the best books on Fasting	I have had my book since 1996, and I have lived its principles for the past 6 years. This is a wonderful book. I love it. Paul Bragg was one of the great pioneers of fasting and it is because of him and his daughter Patricia Bragg that understand the &quot;miracle of fasting&quot; as I know it today. <br />This book is a necessity. If you do not have a copy you should quickly get a copy, because it teaches you the basic fundamentals for a healthy lifestyle.<br />I am glad that I have a copy of this book -- I am carded all the time and people sometimes mistake me for being a senior in high school or college. I know that it has a lot to do with me following the laws of God in the area of health and nutrition.<br />This is one of the best books on Fasting that I have every read.<BR>It is not only good for the individual who desires to make lifestyle changes, but it is great for the whole family.	2002-11-17
US	38123720	R8V01JBIMZ997	0679603352	394884897	The Cider House Rules: A Novel (Modern Library)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Simply Brilliant	This book transformed my way of thinking. I have always thought of John Irving as one of the most fascinating writers of our time. He simply describes everything! I truly enjoyed the &quot;Cider House Rules&quot; everything about it kept me pining for more. <br />The character Homer Wells as well as the Doctor who saved his life was the most interesting. Homer's simple desire to feel love and wanted transcends everything around him. He chooses early on to not allow this to become a catalyst in his life. But finds minute ways to offer a minimal existence in the arms of the woman that he loves. <br />In all good novels it is a pity when the story fails to end in the way in which you would expect. However, when I ask myself the question as to whether this was one of Irving's best works I would still have to give a resounding YES! Just like in his other novel &quot;The World According to Garp&quot; . . . Irving leaves his readers just craving for more.	2002-11-17
US	38123720	R2XZHM333Y39OR	078572222X	152453992	Ugh	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I never laughed so hard--it's simply hilarious	The book \\"Ugh\\" written by Arthur Yorinks and illustrated by Richard Egielski was one of the funniest books that I have ever read. It kind of reminded me of \\"Cinderella\\" but it had its own sense of pre-historic mystic and plot.  I truly hoped that the author will be inspired to tell us a little bit  more about \\"Ugh.\\" Perhaps a sequel would be nice . . . Either way this book is great. I never laughed so hard-- its simply hilarious!	2002-11-14
US	38123720	R2JVXUKWX5TF4H	0689833199	408550120	The Mountain That Loved a Bird	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beautiful	This is one of the most beautiful books that I have ever read. It is love. Love that is indeed essential. Like water for chocolate type of love. Whenever I read this book it amazes me how as to how real the author personified the characters. <br />This story not only clarifies the necessity to of the need for love but it brings it forth with such astounding boldness. The mountain in its isolation literally almost gives up in the midst of its quest for companionship.<br />This book is not only a book for children -- it is can  also be a literary piece for adults. In the quest for the mountain's security; the bird leaves behind  generation upon generation of offspring to provide the mountain with a sense of love and security for many, many, many years to come.<br />Beautiful -- is a mere word that describes an element of something that is precious, astounding, and good. I cannot find the perfect word for this book. It seems to me that beautiful is hardly enough.	2002-11-14
US	38123720	R1CBVYNDLMN05	078572222X	152453992	Ugh	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I never laughed so hard--it's simply hilarious	The book \\"Ugh\\" written by Arthur Yorinks and illustrated by Richard Egielski was one of the funniest books that I have ever read. It kind of reminded me of \\"Cinderella\\" but it had its own sense of pre-historic mystic and plot.  I truly hoped that the author will be inspired to tell us a little bit  more about \\"Ugh.\\" Perhaps a sequel would be nice . . . Either way this book is great. I never laughed so hard-- its simply hilarious!	2002-11-14
US	38123720	R2I806W82OL8H6	0932081010	449754519	The Power of Praise and Worship	Books	5	14	15	N	N	This is an excellent book about praise and worship	I thoroughly enjoyed Terry Law's book on &quot;The Power of Praise and Worship.&quot; This book speaks volumes to the individual who desires a closer walk with the Lord, and who longs to enter into his gates with joy and thanksgiving.<br />I believe that we should definitely be in a state of praise and worship at all times even if we are praising God inside ourselves and conducting our own church service within our hearts. Terrry Law digs a bit deeper by demonstrating some biblical examples in which praise and worship made all of the difference.<br />I highly recommend this book to any Christian who seeks to build upon his or her prayer life and who desire a more intimacy with the Lord in terms of feeling his presence and love all around. Though some of us may feel that the feeling of security and holiness is something that can only be felt in a church . . . I can assure you that once you are in the privacy of your own home with your arms stretched up and just thanking God for just another day. The power of praise will flow like a river all of the that our Father has done for us. This book is an excellent way to understand just how praise and worship can ACTUALLY LIFT up the spirit of heaviness, depression, and self-pity.<br />This book is a must read. I highly recommend this book along with Franklin Hall's &quot;The Fasting Prayer.&quot; If you really want to feel God's presence go on a selected fast and prayer experience in which you mix fasting, prayer, and praise. The heavens will open and God will show you what to do and how to do it. Read this book it has some interesting points!	2002-02-25
US	38123720	R2F9R7E369K13C	0375411550	331831848	The Bluest Eye	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I cried a thousand  rainddrop tears when  I read this book	I had several friends who knew that I enjoyed reading anything by Toni Morrison who told me that this book would be an excellent read for me, and I can assure you that it was . . . This book took me back to my own hometown, my roots, my southern upbringing, and presented to me all of the horrors that I discerned as a child. The smell of the book, the feel of its heavy contents, sometimes, I did not know whether to laugh, cry, or punch a hole in the wall. There are certain books that evoke emotion in me and then there are are those that do not. I was moved  by all of this and then some. Pecola, could have been any little African American girl that I could have ever known, it could have been me, my sister, my niece, the girl next door, my best friend, or anybody. I just know that everything that ever was in terms of life just seem to swallow me up as I consumed more and more . . .<br />I never once had to force myself to read this novel. I only read because reading was all that I could do to place myself in the shame and embarrassment of this girl-child who wanted something that was so obscure but in her small mind made it necessary to have. There was the part about the Mary Jane candy -- and about how the teacher, the man at the candy store, and even her own mother Mrs. Breedlove and their reactions to her that told her she was insignificant,ugly, dumb, stupid, and nothing that she could ever say in life would ever matter or ever do. She was  Pecola and she was just better off gone. She even erased herself, by herself. She knew the reactions that others had about her but why? What made her so bad? What made her so ugly and so ashamed? Thought patterns that were already shaped by others peconceptions or opinions of her . . . I suppose. But why?I could not help but empathize with the pain of the character.<br />My feelings for this book far exceeds what I felt for &quot;Beloved.&quot; Little Pecola was living an emotional hell. Not only that but she was deceived by believing that if she only had blue eyes that her life in someway could be different or maybe even beautiful.<br />The climax of this book for me was not the part about the incest. Though it angered me deeply that the character had to go through another painful episode in her life. But what  really grabbed me was the scene in which she is beaten, cussed out, and slapped for accidently knocking over a blueberry cobbler. I knew then what ailed the child. She needed not only a mother's love, but a mother's understanding.<br />This book could be reviewed, critiqued, and examined in so many different ways.  I felt this book. It made me think . . . And question. I suppose I will be reviewing this book time and time again amongst various reading circles. Pecola was as real to me as my hands and my feet. I felt her heartbeat as I devoured page after page. This book left me spent--for I cried a thousand raindrop tears that fell silently upon the broke.	2002-01-29
US	38123720	R1BUW4Y31S6SPN	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent piece of literary work	I thoroughly enjoyed James McBride's &quot;The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother&quot;, because of its simplicity of style and structure in captivating the overall essence of interracial marriage and the perception of the children involved.<br />McBride was successful in carefully painting a picture which included traces of history from both his past as well as his mother's past by allowing the reader to experience more than one perspective or rather point of view.<br />McBride celebrates life and lessons learned. I really enjoyed the overall influence of his mother in the lives of all of her children. She stressed education and most of all a belief in God as a sure path for survival in this country. But most of all I really like the parts in which she to me, encouraged each of her children to develop some form of path way or plan that was accessible to them: a faith in God / and an education.<br />This book was inspirational. Coming from a multi-raced hertiage myself, I am startled all the time by the overall ignorance of others when referring to people of multi-raced or multi-cultural hertiage. There is nothing odd about having someone who is a parent, spouse, or even friend that is of another race or cultural persuasion.  I find that this particular book erased all misconceptions that I had about myself and others like me. We are all people who undoubtably desire to be reflections of one another.  Somewhat like a mixture of spices. We are all without color -- and the color of water sounds fine to me.  A reflection of a reflection of all the prisms of the world.<br />Thank you Mr. McBride for writing such a lovely piece of work. It was not only an inspiration, but a needed piece of quilt-work in the spread of many lessons of love needed to be learned.	2002-01-25
US	38123720	R9WHA6ZUDJVTC	0609610988	142638345	The Valley of Horses (Earth's Children)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	This is a wonderful book to read again and again!	The main character of each of her books, Ayla, is a woman whose charm, persona, and diversity leads her on many journeys. Having traced Ayla's life-line from the first sequel. I was excited when her life included love. After seeing her struggle with such prejudice, hatred, and ignorance at the hands of some of the characters in the first novel. I was overjoyed when Jondalar appeared in this sequel.<br />I love this book and consider it very informative and incredibly sensual. The very elements of basic human needs are addressed in this story. To see in this novel that love is naturally fought for, and at the same time feared; allows the reader a to experience a sense of reality in which both characters have to explore the past of the other. Such discovery allows each character to appreciate the gifts and talents of the other and to  celebrate the differences.  <br />Auel highlights and draws the reader not only into the thoughts of a  man, but the thoughts of a woman as well. Even though this book has many historic twists. I found it to be a book in which I could read again and again . . . And still find something sweet and new.	2002-01-25
US	38123720	R3Q03MSTT3DVTH	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent book!	I read this book on a plane headed to Los Angeles and simply could not put it down! I was completely engrossed from the moment I began reading it until the moment I finished. This book gave me a lot to think about. The mere openness of Mr. McCourt concerning his life was amazing. I was often times livid about the way in which he had to go about his life, and felt the pain of his mother who in her own way remained strong and hopeful during his father's constant battle to find stable employment. <br />His father was a very interesting man. I believe that he was suffering from a broken-heart due to the loss of his daughter and<BR>twin sons. I believe the elder McCourt could have been an author or story-teller within his own right. I feel that such things can be a given and passed down from generation to generation. I think that this indeed was an interesting point that Mr. McCourt made in his movie and book that his father was always telling him stories in which apparently he remembered and retained.<br />It is hard to imagine how one could have survived such an upbringing; nevertheless this book is a perfect example how Mr. McCourt was ever so eloquent in his one dream of coming to America.  I was touched by his willingness on several occassions in which even as a child he worked and tried to take on the responsibilities of caring for his family. I thought that was beautiful when he became in the very words of his father when he left for London, \\"the man of the house.\\"<br />Mr. McCourt honesty and straight-forwardness about the events that occurred in his life makes him one the most beautiful authors that I know. Honesty within itself is a beautiful thing. The freedom to write an honest piece of work is far more intriguing.  <br />I love this book it touched my life. I have read this book more than once, and somehow when I want to place myself within a situation of all odds I read this . . . And then I am reminded of the dream of Mr. Frank McCourt and I am totally convinced that anything is possible within my life if only I just BELIEVE! <br />I highly recommend this book to all . . . it is one excellent read!	2002-01-25
US	38123720	R3LXUNB2ITTH9	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This is an excellent book. I have read it over 100 times!	I love &quot;Beloved&quot; by Toni Morrison. This is one of the best books that I have ever read. Besides watching the movie, reading the book, and reading the &quot;CliffNotes&quot; to the book. I find this book to be one of the most powerful of our time.<br />I can understand why Oprah Winfrey, decided to make this book into a movie, because this book whispers volumes! I applaud the movie and I truly believe that it was beyond excellent -- it was phenomenal!<br />I love all of Toni Morrison's work, but whenever I read &quot;Beloved&quot; or watch the movie. I am overwhelmed by the quality of strength and overall creativity that it took to create such a fascinating piece of literature.<br />It is hard for me to put into words exactly how this book has changed my life. But I suppose that the unbending strength of Sethe and Denver's eventual acceptance of herself despite all that she endured allows me to  focus on those things that are of good within my own life and to love, learn, and experience the challenges in life with courage.<br />Thank you Ms. Morrison you are totally awesome! I love everything that you write. What a wonderful inspiration you are to all women  who desire to write and publish literary masterpieces who strive to keep on keeping on!	2002-01-18
US	38123720	R3DFXLC6ZCDJE1	189162069X	316457848	Vernon Can Read! A Memoir	Books	5	3	6	N	N	An Inspiring Literary Work	Vernon E. Jordan, Jr.'s &quot;Vernon Can Read! A Memoir&quot; is an exceptional piece of literature. Once I started reading I could not stop. Every page filled me with compassion and empathy towards Mr. Jordan. His life, His times, and His integrity . . . Make him one of the most outstanding individuals of this time.<br />I applaud Mr. Jordan in the way that he successfully ties past, present, and future. As an educator, I was inspired by Mr. Jordan's consistency, determination, and drive. <br />Thank you Mr. Jordan for such a lovely display of an African American family who kept their foundation through love, faith, and courage!	2002-01-18
US	38123720	R6E71G8H87JXR	1886433364	665323330	Heal Thyself for Health and Longevity	Books	5	37	44	N	N	This book is phenomenal in every way imaginable!	This is my one of my favorite books of all time. I read this book as much as I read my Bible and that is daily. I am constantly referring to it as a source for healing and daily remedies. This book gives me comfort and uplifts my spirit. I think that Queen Afua is wonderful. I discovered this book from a friend when I was only 25 and I have followed her percepts as closely as I can for over 6 years and I am delighted. <br />I really love this book and even though I probably need to get another copy because my current issue is so worn. I love the wonder of having something such as this. Because I love the idea that one day I will tell my little &quot;Rainbow&quot; the laws of being healthy and staying healthy.	2002-01-18
