US	38272130	R1SV5KTCD5FSFX	0711216754	749820863	Chatsworth: The House	Books	5	64	64	N	Y	One of the most perfect 'Country House' books ever	There is no shortage of books on English country houses, but books dedicated in their totality to one single house are surprisingly rare (and those that do exist do not necessarily cover the most obvious houses - there are books on Tyntesfield, Clouds, and Waddesdon Manor, but none on Blenheim Palace, Wilton House or Castle Howard. A book on Holkham Hall is in the making, though). Some books that discuss a greater number of houses are quite excellent (e.g., Great Houses of England and Wales by Hugh Montgomery-Massingbird), but it is hard not to feel shortchanged when a house as rich as Chatsworth is delt with in just a handful of pages. Here is the better alternative. I have collected a great many books on english country house history over the years, but this is certainly one of the most beautiful and satisfying of them all. Everything about it is right.<br /><br />Chatsworth was already a tourist magnet in Jane Austen's days, and very much remains so today. Sequestered in its gorgeous green valley, it is the quintessential 'great house' in the quintessential English landscape. This book must be the next best thing to an actual visit; in fact, in some ways it may be better, for how many visitors enjoy the pleasure of being shown around by the Duchess of Devonshire herself? And a pleasure it is. The texts are immediately involving, due to their well-balanced mix of (art)history, anecdote, wit and personal recollections and reflections. Family, staff, and visitors all feature in the biography of a place that is very much alive, even though its maintenance poses daunting challenges. Never pompous, the lively, at times delightfully tongue-in-cheek style of the Duchess's writing betrays that she stems from a literary family (she is the sister of Nancy Mitford). Her undisguised great love of the place adds yet more charm.<br /><br />The other glory, of course, is Simon Upton's photography, which is simply dazzling. All rooms of interest, both in the public route and the private appartments of the Devonshires, are illustrated in large, full colour images, as well as many decorative details, paintings, and several 'downstairs' spaces. In all, they provide fascinating insight into the workings and riches of a very large house like this one. Be aware, though, that the book details the interior only. For views of the house and the gardens you will have to get the equally alluring 'The Gardens at Chatsworth' by the same author (and as I gather, a book about the estate as a whole is forthcoming, so Chatsworthites can rejoice....).appartments of the Devonshires, are illustrated in large, full colour images, as well as many decorative details, paintings, and several 'downstairs' spaces. In all, they provide fascinating insight into the workings and riches of a very large house like this one. Be aware, though, that the book details the interior only. For views of the house and the gardens you will have to get the equally alluring 'The Gardens at Chatsworth' by the same author (and as I gather, a book about the estate as a whole is forthcoming, so Chatsworthites can rejoice....).	2005-08-20
US	38272130	R3EVJ68F9OFUVV	0879516178	433894224	Phantoms of the Hudson Valley: The Glorious Estates of a Lost Era	Books	1	76	80	N	Y	A massive disappointment	If ever there was truth in the saying that a book shouldn't be judged by its cover, it's here. The book cover and the sales info might lead you to expect atmospheric photographic impressions of ruined estates on the banks of the Hudson. Well, that is definitely NOT what you are getting. Wyndcliff, seen on the cover picture, is one of only a very few true \\"phantoms\\" represented in this book - most of the houses documented are, on the contrary, in excellent repair and often even open to the public. The \\"phantom\\" part seems mainly to refer to the ghosts featuring in the accompanying texts (and, indeed, in several of the photographs - transparant ladies in elaborate ballgowns floating down stairways, that kind of thing). The texts as such are illuminating and have a certain charm, but clearly this book wants to be a photobook first and foremost, and in that respect it is massively disappointing. Just type \\"Wyndcliff\\" or \\"Bannerman's Castle\\" in your browser and the web will turn up many more pictures of these places than are seen in this book, many that are way more atmospheric than those on offer here, and all for free. Haunting impressions do not depend on sepia tones, unsharpness, and fish-eye lenses (Randall's love of the latter is truly worrying...), let alone Photoshopped apparitions. In fact, what this book basically gives you are unclear, artificially \\"spooked up\\" images, of houses that are seen to much better advantage in several other books - mostly ones that are far less expensive, too, than this exorbitantly overpriced publication.	2005-07-28
US	38272130	R1ZI0ZIQWX28R9	0312422180	713832506	The Time of Our Singing: A Novel	Books	3	50	54	N	Y	Too long for a good song	This book was enthusiastically recommended to me by a friend, and the reviews I read of it made me even more eager to read it. Now, having finished it, I find myself rather disappointed, yet somewhat hesitant to give an opinion. The writing itself is of such quality and, often, sheer beauty, and the scope of its themes is so monumental, that I cannot help but admire the writer for his audacity and skill. Of course, likes and dislikes are always matters of taste, but this eventual \\"dislike\\" had me wondering if the fault was with this particular reader rather than the novel. Still, the book left me, if not exactly bored, strangely exasperated. It seems to be one of those novels where the story does not evolve naturally from the characters, but where the characters are elaborate mechanisms for dispensing philosophical and political ideas. A suspicion Powers tries to repel by cramming his pages with picturesque and quaint individual detail, and by rehashing the central motives (race, time, music) in a way that verges on the obsessive - bloating this book to a daunting 630 pages in the process.<br />The Time of Our Singing tells the story of a black woman and a jewish man who decide to marry after meeting at a musical event-slash-antidiscrimination rally. Their mixed marriage is the bane of her parents, and of the central characters in the novel, the two sons and the daughter issueing from their bond. One of the sons grows into a singer of world class stature, while the other is tossed to and fro between the claims made on him by his brother as a fellow-musician, and by his sister as a fellow black person. After the tragic death of the mother, their scientist father is incapable of keeping his family on track, as he drifts off into an esoteric world of physics centring on the idea that time is directionless and that everything is present at the same time - a metaphor Powers takes just one step too far towards the end of the book. The singer brother eventually ditches his solocareer to join an early music group in Belgium, while the sister becomes a pro-black activist. The insurmountable problem of race is at the core of it all, and is elaborately dished out in the stories of no less than 4 generations. Add to that lots (lots!) of talk about music, and uncommon levels of musical accomplishment in so many characters as to defy believability; - and put all that against the backdrop of half a century of racial confusion in the US. Then, maybe, you may understand something of my feeling that this book is trying to deal with a few Big Themes too many for its own good.<br />Things are not helped by the very obvious desire of Powers to be profound and moving, an aim in which he is defeated by the way he lays it on way too thick. Sorry as I am to say it, page 630 came as somewhat of a relief, and his characters left me quite unmoved, even if his writing itself at times didn't.ocareer to join an early music group in Belgium, while the sister becomes a pro-black activist. The insurmountable problem of race is at the core of it all, and is elaborately dished out in the stories of no less than 4 generations. Add to that lots (lots!) of talk about music, and uncommon levels of musical accomplishment in so many characters as to defy believability; - and put all that against the backdrop of half a century of racial confusion in the US. Then, maybe, you may understand something of my feeling that this book is trying to deal with a few Big Themes too many for its own good.  Things are not helped by the very obvious desire of Powers to be profound and moving, an aim in which he is defeated by the way he lays it on way too thick. Sorry as I am to say it, page 630 came as somewhat of a relief, and his characters left me quite unmoved, even if his writing itself at times didn't.	2005-06-18
US	38272130	REZUIFOH8941N	1401352235	574325969	Windows on the World: A Novel	Books	1	32	49	N	N	Far more tasteless than you could possibly imagine	Far greater authors than Beigbeder must have considered the option of writing a novel on 9/11. And each of them must have concluded that there were (as yet?) few good reasons why to do it, and many good reasons not to. Thus, this unknown French opportunist could claim it for himself. Of course Beigbeder knew quite well he would have to explain why. And he does. \\"The only interesting subjects are those that are taboo. You have to write what is forbidden.\\" It's only one of the many feeble excuses Beigbeder comes up with to justify this shameless piece of exploitation; though probably the cleverest, as it allows him to defuse all criticism - those who do not like the book are the guardians of a taboo. He has other excuses too: 9/11 is the only important thing that has happened in his generation's lifetime; it signifies the end of capitalism; the suffering of the victims must not be disguised... etc. If this weren't the man who once said that his only motivations in writing are fame and fortune, you might almost fall for it.<br /><br />It might have been acceptable in the end had he at least written a good novel. But, to quote Kerman on Tosca, this basically is a \\"shabby little shocker\\". Beigbeder puts us in the Windows on the World restaurant on the WTC North Tower's top floors, with a Texan real estate agent and his two young sons on the morning of 9/11, and intercuts scenes of their agonizing deaths with his own search for meaning in a vapid and sex-obsessed life. The undisguised narcissism with which the author, who has no particular connection to the events at all, downgrades 9/11 to a symbol for his own vain little existential crisis is probably the most tasteless aspect of this book. As a result, it keeps meandering between attempt at a novel, tangled political pamphlet, an essay for an undergraduate philosophy assignment, and an adolescent diary, and remains, as the Dutch saying has it \\"meat nor fish\\".<br /><br />Literary metaphors are of the crudest kind - the airco roars like a plane-engine, the hamburgers are of raw meat, that kind of thing. Beigbeder's depiction of America is self-consciously laboured and at the same time clich&eacute;-ridden, and when it comes down to describing the catastrophe itself he takes refuge in quoting blockbuster disaster movies. Quotations from the Tower of Babel texts from Genesis are inserted as a lame attempt to suggest higher meaning.<br /><br />The writing is sloppy too. Things go \\"completely dark\\", yet the Texan father goes on describing what he sees. He stares at the door handle of the emergency exit, that in fact had been destroyed several scenes earlier. And it seems rather unlikely that a Texan real estate agent would refer to a fifties French movie about the holocaust in search of a metaphor. But of course, the Texan IS Beigbeder, as he over-emphatically points out at the end.<br /><br />The characters are sketchy and uninvolving, yet a welcome relief from Beigbeder's whining, self-pitying self-analyses, that are puerile and tedious at best, and often utterly laughable. A flashy advertising guy who made 30,000 euros a month needs to come up with better than this to sell himself off as a tragic hero.<br /><br />And if only, then, in Brett Easton Ellis fashion, he had succeeded in communicating the utter horror of the events - but even at that he fails; not surprisingly, because what is there to tell that we haven't all already heard, seen or imagined many times? There is no taboo about what exactly happened on 9/11. To suggest that there is, the author applies a facile trick that at the same time defuses his attempt at iconoclasm: as soon as the final minutes of his protagonists arrive, he starts omitting paragraphs that would be \\"insuperable\\" to the reader. The text is strewn with blanks headed \\"paragraph omitted\\". I doubt they were ever written. Typically, the scene that he doesn't omit and turns out to be the climax of the novel, is a hardcore pornographic encounter between twobusiness executives who want to have one last go at it before they die, and are watched with lustful relish by the Texan father whose young son died only minutes ago. Puh-lease! You can just imagine the author gleefully penning this scene, thinking it quite risqu&eacute; - but it is merely stale, absurd, and in bad taste - the sex and death clich&eacute; all over again. Had Beigbeder been as passionate about his characters as he is about four-letter words, this novel might have amounted to something. As it is I would advise you to wait until a real writer is ready to tackle this subject.nt to have one last go at it before they die, and are watched with lustful relish by the Texan father whose young son died only minutes ago. Puh-lease! You can just imagine the author gleefully penning this scene, thinking it quite risqu - but it is merely stale, absurd, and in bad taste - the sex and death clich all over again. Had Beigbeder been as passionate about his characters as he is about four-letter words, this novel might have amounted to something. As it is I would advise you to wait until a real writer is ready to tackle this subject.	2005-04-15
US	38272130	R2WKR9YAFM67L1	0375414657	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Read "Lonely Planet" instead... an overresearched bore.	This book reads more or less like the \\"History and culture\\" section of a Lonely Planet guide to Burma. Very interesting, but it hardly makes a novel. The author is so preoccupied with retelling his own experiences during his stay in Burma, and with detailing the wealth of research he has done (there are a pretentious three pages of acknowledgements and references at the end of the book!), that the characters get crushed beneath them. Mason has such an urge to cram the book with peripheral detail, that time and again he lets it prevail over simple narrative logic. Byways with no structural connection to the story at all recur throughout the book and lend a very clumsy feel to the storytelling.<br /><br />You may learn a thing or two about Erard piano's and more than two about Burma and the Burmese, you're even informed about the etymology of several disease names - but it is very hard to find any interest in a character as flat as Edgar Drake. What makes him fall in love with Burma to the point where he doesn't even want to return home? What makes him fall in love with his female Burmese companion, for that matter, who is an even more underdeveloped character than Drake himself? - we don't get the vaguest clue. The style of writing does not make things better: I found it very heavyhanded, dry, and full of self-importance. Mason does not shy away from saccharine clich&eacute;'s (\\"It is hard to be angry when one has been awakened by the laughter of children\\"), nor from forced 'modernisms', like writing up dialogue in one continuous paragraph, leaving it to the reader to figure out who`s talking. Dialogue itself is peculiarly unconvincing. Captain Nash-Burnham, for instance, seems to be mainly a device for reciting information on traditional Burmese plays and religion, which he does in sentences (and with a level of detail) that, I guess, you would have been hard put to find in an English colonial at that time. In fact, all characters seem to be lecturing to each other all the time. By the way, the Burmese Drake encounters command a surprisingly, in fact quite unbelievably extensive English vocabulary.<br /><br />High flying comparisons have been made between this book and Conrad's Heart of Darkness, or even Marquez. The more obvious parallel seems to me the movie \\"The Piano\\" by Jane Campion. If 'The Pianotuner' would have had only a fraction of the kind of character development seen in that movie, it might have been a worthwhile novel. In its current state, it is merely a very long and pretty tedious wait for what turns out to be an extremely disappointing clue. Worse, the author needs to barrage his reader with lots of new information in the last few dozen pages, simply to enable him to make any sense of the final unraveling. I suggest you spend your time with another book.e. By the way, the Burmese Drake encounters command a surprisingly, in fact quite unbelievably extensive English vocabulary. <br />High flying comparisons have been made between this book and Conrad's Heart of Darkness, or even Marquez. The more obvious parallel seems to me the movie \\"The Piano\\" by Jane Campion. If 'The Pianotuner' would have had only a fraction of the kind of character development seen in that movie, it might have been a worthwhile novel. In its current state, it is merely a very long and pretty tedious wait for what turns out to be an extremely disappointing clue. Worse, the author needs to barrage his reader with lots of new information in the last few dozen pages, simply to enable him to make any sense of the final unraveling. I suggest you spend your time with another book. <br />	2005-03-19
US	38272130	R2M8YXTJGZU3UE	8433970399	962388943	Windows on the World (Spanish Language Edition)	Books	1	13	18	N	N	Far more tasteless than you could possibly imagine	Far greater authors than Beigbeder must have considered the option of writing a novel on 9/11. And each of them must have concluded that there were (as yet?) few good reasons why to do it, and many good reasons not to. Thus, this unknown French opportunist could claim it for himself. Of course Beigbeder knew quite well he would have to explain why. And he does. \\"The only interesting subjects are those that are taboo. You have to write what is forbidden.\\" It's only one of the many feeble excuses Beigbeder comes up with to justify this shameless piece of exploitation; though probably the cleverest, as it allows him to defuse all criticism - those who do not like the book are the guardians of a taboo. He has other excuses too: 9/11 is the only important thing that has happened in his generation's lifetime; it signifies the end of capitalism; the suffering of the victims must not be disguised... etc. If this weren't the man who once said that his only motivations in writing are fame and fortune, you might almost fall for it.<br />It might have been acceptable in the end had he at least written a good novel. But, to quote Kerman on Tosca, this basically is a \\"shabby little shocker\\". Beigbeder puts us in the Windows on the World restaurant on the WTC North Tower's top floors, with a Texan real estate agent and his two young sons on the morning of 9/11, and intercuts scenes of their agonizing deaths with his own search for meaning in a vapid and sex-obsessed life. The undisguised narcissism with which the author, who has no particular connection to the events at all, downgrades 9/11 to a symbol for his own vain little existential crisis is probably the most tasteless aspect of this book. As a result, it keeps meandering between attempt at a novel, tangled political pamphlet, an essay for an undergraduate philosophy assignment, and an adolescent diary, and remains, as the Dutch saying has it \\"meat nor fish\\".<br />Literary metaphors are of the crudest kind - the airco roars like a plane-engine, the hamburgers are of raw meat, that kind of thing. Beigbeder's depiction of America is self-consciously laboured and at the same time clich&eacute;-ridden, and when it comes down to describing the catastrophe itself he takes refuge in quoting blockbuster disaster movies. Quotations from the Tower of Babel texts from Genesis are inserted as a lame attempt to suggest higher meaning.<br />The writing is sloppy too. Things go \\"completely dark\\", yet the Texan father goes on describing what he sees. He stares at the door handle of the emergency exit, that in fact had been destroyed several scenes earlier. And it seems rather unlikely that a Texan real estate agent would refer to a fifties French movie about the holocaust in search of a metaphor. But of course, the Texan IS Beigbeder, as he over-emphatically points out at the end.<br />The characters are sketchy and uninvolving, yet a welcome relief from Beigbeder's whining, self-pitying self-analyses, that are puerile and tedious at best, and often utterly laughable. A flashy advertising guy who made 30,000 euros a month needs to come up with better than this to sell himself off as a tragic hero.<br />And if only, then, in Brett Easton Ellis fashion, he had succeeded in communicating the utter horror of the events - but even at that he fails; not surprisingly, because what is there to tell that we haven't all already heard, seen or imagined many times? There is no taboo about what exactly happened on 9/11. To suggest that there is, the author applies a facile trick that at the same time defuses his attempt at iconoclasm: as soon as the final minutes of his protagonists arrive, he starts omitting paragraphs that would be \\"insuperable\\" to the reader. The text is strewn with blanks headed \\"paragraph omitted\\". I doubt they were ever written. Typically, the scene that he doesn't omit and turns out to be the climax of the novel, is a hardcore pornographic encounter between two business executives who wantto have one last go at it before they die, and are watched with lustful relish by the Texan father whose young son died only minutes ago. Puh-lease! You can just imagine the author gleefully penning this scene, thinking it quite risqu&eacute; - but it is merely stale, absurd, and in bad taste - the sex and death clich&eacute; all over again. Had Beigbeder been as passionate about his characters as he is about four-letter words, this novel might have amounted to something. As it is I would advise you to wait until a real writer is ready to tackle this subject.efore they die, and are watched with lustful relish by the Texan father whose young son died only minutes ago. Puh-lease! You can just imagine the author gleefully penning this scene, thinking it quite risqu - but it is merely stale, absurd, and in bad taste - the sex and death clich all over again. Had Beigbeder been as passionate about his characters as he is about four-letter words, this novel might have amounted to something. As it is I would advise you to wait until a real writer is ready to tackle this subject.	2004-10-18
US	38272130	R30G9C83PX4HLK	0472096230	769839906	Approaching the Millennium: Essays on Angels in America (THEATER: THEORY/TEXT/PERFORMANCE)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Illuminating in part, but also abstract and repetitive	This book offers a loosely organised collection of 18 essays on Kushner's play \\"Angels in America\\". If you are looking for a coherent exploration of the underlying themes and metaphors of this epic drama, you will not find it here. The contributions each stand very much on their own and highlight the work from a random, even somewhat bewildering diversity of angles. Most of them are highly abstract and philosophical. You will come across sentences like \\"The ambivalences that are so deeply described in Angels in America, its conflicted relationship to various utopianisms, to the concept of America, to Marxism, Mormonism, and liberalism, function, I believe, to accommodate the play to what I see as a fundamentally conservative and paradigmatically American politic - dissensus, the `hermeneutics of laissez-faire',\\" or, \\"Epic theatre needs to construct the experience of ideological contradiction as the mode of subjectivity it projects for spectators rather than the ideological totalization implied in supporter, judgment, empathy or even detachment.\\"<br /><br />There is a lot of repetition. The exposition about Walter Benjamin's essay `Theses on the Philosophy of History', seminal in the genesis of the play, is illuminating when it occurs in the first essay, but becomes wearisome on its third or fourth repetition several essays further on. Nearly all the authors focus on the obvious key scenes in the play (e.g., the opening of Millennium, the closing of Perestroika), which are also cited repetitively, and though their different viewpoints lend extra depth to these scenes, many others remain undiscussed. I was furthermore disappointed by the strong accent on AinA as a gay lib and/or AIDS play, and the comparative neglect of its universal meaning and appeal (as demonstrated by the extraordinary success of the recent HBO televised version). Some contributions struck me as pointless or out of place: the interview with Robert Altman was already superseded by later development at the time the book went to press, and though the editors think it offers worthwhile visions of Kushner, Altman's most common answer to questions appears to be `I don't know'. De Jongh's essay about AinA in London is more about British censorship history than Kushner's play.<br /><br />All in all a very mixed bag, that I'm not sure I wholeheartedly recommend.at the time the book went to press, and though the editors think it offers worthwhile visions of Kushner, Altman's most common answer to questions appears to be `I don't know'. De Jongh's essay about AinA in London is more about British censorship history than Kushner's play.<br /><br />All in all a very mixed bag, that I'm not sure I wholeheartedly recommend.	2004-10-17
US	38272130	R3UNEWL16GT79U	0847819353	601813262	One Hundred English Gardens: The Best of the English Heritage Parks and Gardens	Books	3	35	36	N	Y	Not as good as I had expected (or hoped)	Is there anything nearer paradise on earth than a Capability Brown garden stretching into the distance around an English stately home? Gardening has always been a specialty of the English, and a must for the aristocracy. This book attempts to document the most memorably successful results found on country estates. Attempts, I say, because catching the essence of a garden in a photograph is not an easy task, and one at which the makers of this book do not entirely succeed, in my opinion. To be sure there are some impressively atmospheric images here; of the Mausoleum at Castle Howard for instance, or some mysteriously misty takes at Haddon Hall.<br /><br />Other images however are harshly, unnaturally colored, with reds leaping of the page. Some have artificially added blue skies, most notably that of the garden at Sudeley Castle, which looks like a cheap Seventies postcard. There is a graininess to the pictures as well, and some are printed out of focus. Thicker, glossy paper would have helped. All in all not what you would expect of such a highbrow (and high price) publisher like Rizzoli. An additional disappointment is that because 100 gardens are covered, we get to see only one or two images of each of them - the book only has just over 200 pages. To enjoy a really successful garden book of this kind, I would advise you to look out for the dazzling, newly published \\"The Gardens at Buckingham Palace\\" by Brown and Sykes.	2004-10-05
US	38272130	R24SE2VBKTW1N7	1559705191	210274249	Jacqueline Du Pre: Her Life, Her Music, Her Legend	Books	2	39	52	N	N	A wonderful hagiography!	When looking for a biography of Du Pr&eacute;, I consciously avoided the ill-reputed memoir by her siblings and opted for this \\"more balanced\\" account. However, Wilson clearly has as many stakes in her recounting of Du Pr&eacute;'s life as Hilary and Piers du Pr&eacute; had, and whatever the merits of this book, objectivity is not among them. I guess people who knew their subject personally rarely make good biographers, and in that respect the involvement of Barenboim in this venture is worrisome. Wilson's over-the-top, sustained exaltation almost becomes the verbal equivalent of du Pr&eacute;'s larger-than-life style of playing. But even a performer of this stature can give only one \\"best ever\\" concert, not ten or twenty...<br /><br />There can be no question about du Pr&eacute;'s extraordinary talent and charisma. Her 1965 Elgar disc still stands firm as one of the absolute must-haves of classical recordings. Why can't Wilson let that be enough, why the need to describe her subject as if she were a creature of all-round unearthly perfection? Du Pr&eacute; has suffered much from the fact that her precocious talent set her apart from \\"normal\\" people; Wilson widens the gulf rather than bridging it, thus posthumously compounding the trauma. The fact of the matter is that du Pr&eacute; was not only an extraordinary musician, but also an ordinary, flesh and blood, and therefore flawed human being.<br /><br />In Wilson's rendering, however, du Pr&eacute; is literally flawless. This is most evident in her reporting on less than perfect concert performances. The blame is immediately diverted from the cellist: the instrument was no good; the conductor was unsympathetic; the orchestra was sloppy... When citing some insightful critical reviews of Du Pr&eacute;'s New York debut, rather than using them to add profile to her image, Wilson again jumps into defensive mode, not afraid to draw the embarrassingly feeble conclusion that these 'nit-picking' critics simply weren't able to open up to du Pr&eacute;'s artistry. She won't hesitate either to then go on and tell us why she, Wilson, thinks it was actually a very good performance - as if her personal opinion is of any particular interest to the reader.<br /><br />Worse, by letting go of objectivity, Wilson ignores the core dilemma of du Pr&eacute;'s playing: the overbearing presence of her personality in it, often overruling the intentions of the composer and sometimes reducing the music, as one reviewer astutely observed, to a mere \\"plaything\\". It explains her lack of interest in composers, backgrounds, or scores of the works she played; it may also explain why she chose to spend the tragically brief decade of her musical maturity playing the same, unadventurous handful of works over and over again, rather than exploring (let alone inspiring) new repertoire. She contented herself with works that were apt vehicles for her style of playing and was quick to drop pieces that did not immediately \\"fit\\" her (e.g. Shostakovich's First Cello concerto, or the Britten Cello Symphony). Wilson off-handedly explains Du Pr&eacute;'s narrow choice of repertoire with the extraordinary and nonsensical claim that the literature for solo cello is relatively limited. Why, even the father of her brother in law, Gerald Finzi, wrote a wonderful cello concerto she never played.<br /><br />Insights into the personality and psychology of the cellist are completely absent. How du Pr&eacute;'s personality worked, and why, remains completely unclear. Her refusal to accept real responsibilities, exemplified by the willy-nilly cancellation of concert appointments, suggests a certain immaturity - but Wilson simply files it under \\"spontaneity\\". Baffling contradictions abound. Du Pr&eacute; needed an audience to be able to play, we're told, yet she played exactly the same whether she was in a recording studio or in concert. She remained simple and unassuming, yet was very picky when it came to selecting orchestra's with which she did and didn't want to play. The marriage to Barenboim was heaven itself, nevertheless all of a sudden they are breaking up and both conducting extramarital affairs, dramatic developments that are mentioned by Wilson out-of-the-blue, and as quickly passed over.<br /><br />By avoiding going into these thorny questions and glossing over du Pr&eacute;'s image, the book quickly becomes repetitive, even boring. We are told ad nauseam how strongly du Pr&eacute; communicated through her playing, how rich her musical intuitions were, and how everybody instantly fell in love with her. Endless paeans of praise fill page after page. Claims are made that at times stretch credulity: did Muscovites really burst into tears by the dozens at hearing Du Pr&eacute; play something as innocuous as Haydn's C major concerto? Was she really able to imagine the orchestral accompaniment of the Delius concerto from the solo voice alone at first acquaintance? Or are we crossing the line between biography and mythology?<br /><br />The breathless adoration unfortunately also goes at the cost of accuracy. The violinist is called Buswell, not Buzwell; Gerald Finzi died in 1956, not 1959; halfway through the Moscow chapter Natalia Gutman suddenly changes into Natasha; - even musical terms are misspelled: we come across things like \\"spicatto\\" and \\"fermato\\".<br /><br />By the time Wilson arrives at the harrowing final illness (dispatched very succinctly, by the way), she has put du Pr&eacute; at such a distance from the reader and humanity in general that it is almost impossible to feel moved at all at this devastating tragedy. I will now be seeking out \\"A genius in the family\\", where hopefully Jackie will reemerge as a human being.are breaking up and both conducting extramarital affairs, dramatic developments that are mentioned by Wilson out-of-the-blue, and as quickly passed over.  <br />By avoiding going into these thorny questions and glossing over du Pr's image, the book quickly becomes repetitive, even boring. We are told ad nauseam how strongly du Pr communicated through her playing, how rich her musical intuitions were, and how everybody instantly fell in love with her. Endless paeans of praise fill page after page. Claims are made that at times stretch credulity: did Muscovites really burst into tears by the dozens at hearing Du Pr play something as innocuous as Haydn's C major concerto? Was she really able to imagine the orchestral accompaniment of the Delius concerto from the solo voice alone at first acquaintance? Or are we crossing the line between biography and mythology?  <br />The breathless adoration unfortunately also goes at the cost of accuracy. The violinist is called Buswell, not Buzwell; Gerald Finzi died in 1956, not 1959; halfway through the Moscow chapter Natalia Gutman suddenly changes into Natasha; - even musical terms are misspelled: we come across things like \\"spicatto\\" and \\"fermato\\".  <br />By the time Wilson arrives at the harrowing final illness (dispatched very succinctly, by the way), she has put du Pr at such a distance from the reader and humanity in general that it is almost impossible to feel moved at all at this devastating tragedy. I will now be seeking out \\"A genius in the family\\", where hopefully Jackie will reemerge as a human being. <br />	2004-09-10
US	38272130	R1TY3HDLUWC5Z6	0762402032	573062671	American Castles: A Pictorial History	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	An excellent introduction	Though I greatly enjoyed a visit to Hearst's \\"Castle\\" in San Simeon some years ago, as a European one tends to be unaware that it isn't the only building of its kind in the USA. This book provides an excellent overview of what's on offer, and for me truly opened up whole new perspectives on architecture. The shameless display of wealth is very much to the fore in several of the houses that are documented. Though the results are sometimes in questionable taste, or even childishly naïve, and architects apparently weren't always able to articulate the difference between a hallway in a private dwelling and an opera house lobby, there is also an exhilarating buoyancy to it all that's rarely found in European buildings, weighed down as they are by historical and stylistic consciousness (barring maybe a few Victorian extravaganzas in the UK and of course Ludwig II's castles in Bavaria). Confections like the dining room at The Breakers or the ballroom at Marble House might have been cooked up in Hollywood as sets for some million-dollar fairy tale movie and are simply mind-blowing.<br /><br />Still, of even greater interest than these would-be Versailles' are quintessentially American buildings like the Carson House in Eureka or the bizarre Winchester \\"Mystery\\" House. All of these are shown to excellent advantage in this book, with an occasional Italianate Palazzo and the odd gothic monstrosity thrown in for good measure. Both interiors and exteriors are (selectively) documented. Texts are brief and to the point. The photography is more than serviceable, though of somewhat variable quality and rarely quite top-notch. Still, at the price nobody interested need hesitate to pick up this slim volume. If you are seriously interested in the subject I would however urge you (also) to invest in the McAlister's more comprehensive, scholarly, and visually stunning \\"Great American Houses\\", which includes floor plans,  unfortunately missing in the present book.	2004-09-03
US	38272130	R10JAMRTP8UZQ5	0374527008	311905626	Indivisible by Four: A String Quartet in Pursuit of Harmony	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Insightful and touching	I wish this book would have had twice as many pages, at the least. I found it utterly impossible to put down, raced through it in barely two days, and now feel bereft for having reached the end. Fortunately, the Guarneri's themselves are still going strong, though cellist David Soyer made way a few years ago for his pupil Peter Wiley. This book deals with the  (many) years before that change took place. Arnold Steinhardt is as engrossing a storyteller as he is a violinist, and addresses the multitude of issues, both musical and personal, connected with string quartet playing without ever being boring, pompous, or academic. On the contrary, his lively, often humorous style of writing and the uncompromisingly personal tone he adopts prove perfect vehicles for an in-depth look at the daunting challenges involved in playing the quartet repertoire, but are also highly endearing. By the end you feel you truly got to know these players; an additional reason why the extensive description concluding the book, of a 90's performance of Schubert's Death & The Maiden, interspersed with Steinhardt's musings on the eventual finiteness even of the long-lived Guarneri Quartet, is extremely moving. The focus on such well-known repertoire, by the way, (Beethoven's op. 59/3 and the Cavatina from op. 130 are other Steinhardt favourites) are typical of the accessibility of the book and its laudable lack of snobbery.<br /><br />Before these final pages, the author offers anything from concert-tour anecdotes, string quartet gags and quartet psychology to insights into the rehearsal process, repertoire choice, musical history, the peculiarities of amateurs, as well as thoughts on the relative merits of recorded and \\"live\\" performances. Deftly drafted portraits of musical giants like, say, Georg Szell or Arthur Rubinstein add further interest; the brief appearance of Jacqueline Du Pr&eacute; as a \\"pale milkmaid in a flowerprint dress\\" who then incongruously attacks her cello with animal-like abandon I found quite unforgettable.<br /><br />In all, I would strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in chamber music; but it will be a special treat for those with some experience in quartet-playing (if only by pointing out that string quartet repertoire is hard even for players of Guarneri-stature...).found quite unforgettable. <br />In all, I would strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in chamber music; but it will be a special treat for those with some experience in quartet-playing (if only by pointing out that string quartet repertoire is hard even for players of Guarneri-stature...).  <br />	2004-09-03
US	38272130	R2MD47TXU32QFX	0385497725	563530601	Albion: Origins of the English Imagination	Books	3	42	46	N	N	An erudite scrapbook	Though I'm almost worryingly Anglophile, I did not find this an all too easy read. The book's structure is unclear - it seems to start out chronologically, but halfway through continues thematically. It is also rather fragmented, though this has the advantage of offering something for everyone; it's like picking through trinkets at some bric-a-brac store. Ackroyd's massive erudition is never in doubt, but it is a pity he seems more concerned with showing it off rather than curtailing it within the confines of a coherent argument. At times the author lapses into mere namedropping that struck me as rather random. Nor is his argument always consistent. E.g., he notes that English gardening is suffused with territorial and warlike thinking and terminology; yet, two pages on he states that English gardens are characterised by meandering lines that bespeak of a \\"distaste for regimentation.\\"<br /><br />Be aware also that Ackroyd's interpretation of \\"imagination\\" veers very much towards literature; architecture, landscape gardening, painting and music are treated cursorily at best - there is a final chapter on music, but it covers only a few pages and deals almost exclusively with Vaughan Williams.<br /><br />In general I'm not at all convinced that Ackroyd succeeds in making a case for the specificity of English imagination. He cites many examples for which equivalents could, it seems to me, with equal ease be found in French or German art. Just a glance at a Caspar David Friedrich painting will be enough to show you that there is nothing peculiarly English about a melancholy obsession with the transience of things. Parts of this book are thought-provoking, parts are entertaining, and all of it is definitely well-written. But in the final reckoning it does no more than vaguely delineate the outlines of a hypothesis; it certainly does not prove it. The essence of the undeniably peculiar Englishness that suffuses works by Gainsborough, Turner, Britten, Elgar, Shakespeare, Dickens, \\"Capability\\" Brown and Vanbrugh alike (to name just a very few) simply eludes these pages. What you are left with is an erudite scrapbook.apability\\" Brown and Vanbrugh alike (to name just a very few) simply eludes these pages. What you are left with is an erudite scrapbook.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-22
US	38272130	RHP8UTGEIXF02	155704404X	786820258	American Beauty: The Shooting Script	Books	3	6	7	N	N	***** for the text, * for production values of the book	If you have seen the movie, and were deeply touched by it, as seems inevitable, owning this screenplay is definitely worthwhile. Without having to put on the DVD, you can relive particular moments by just leafing through the pages. Alan Ball's script won multiple awards, and rightly so: it is a masterpiece of dramatic writing, merging the comical, the tragic and the spiritual in ways rarely seen in present day (American) film.<br />Yet this book isn't all it could, and in my view should, have been. It really offers very little besides the literal text of the final movie version (including some of Annette Bening's and Kevin Spacey's improvisations). Other film scripts I own include in-depth information about genesis, casting, production etc., loads of good still and behind-the-scenes photography, as well as discarded scenes and earlier versions of scenes. None of that here, even though several parts of the film were drastically altered during the filming. There is a 2-page intro by Mendes that adds nothing to the information contained on the DVD, if you own that; and the same goes for the even shorter afterword by Ball (who, on the DVD commentary track, isn't able to get a word in edgewise with Mendes, and so remains something of an enigma). Then there are a few grainy black and white stills that are an insult to the brilliant cinematography of the movie - and that's it. For makers of a film so ostentatiously concerned with the relativity of material things, it does seem like a rather cheap way to squeeze some extra bucks from it...	2004-04-30
US	38272130	R1VFHIDQHCWU8	038531129X	905531819	Mary Queen of Scots	Books	2	21	29	N	N	Saint Mary...?	How you will like this book much depends on what you expect of a biography. Personally, I prefer it to be an account, as objective as possible, of a life, revealing both the subject's strengths and flaws in relation to his or her wider cultural and historical context. This is what you will not find here. Fraser basically styles herself as the defence lawyer that Mary lacked during her Fotheringay trial - the book is one extended apologia for the Queen of Scots, of whom, as a result, a picture emerges that is simply too good to be true. It is also a picture that is inherently inconsistent: on the one hand we are to believe that Mary was a truly regal woman, proud, aware of her position, full of wisdom and insight beyond her age and blessed with a tolerance even beyond her time - and yet she is also constantly depicted as a hapless victim tossed about by forces over which she had no control. Human beings have many characteristics, but blameless perfection is rarely one of them, and the total lack of shades of gray in this black-and-white tale does not help its believability. Fraser finds an explanation and excuse for every of  Mary's actions that might be considered foolish or of evil intent. However, Queen Elizabeth and her government, who obviously represent the 'black', need not count on such clemency. Personally I am amazed that one can write a book about Mary Stuart without dedicating at least a full chapter to her English cousin. With Fraser, Elizabeth remains a cipher, an ominous and ill-willed force in the background. Walsingham gets to see a bit more of the limelight, but only to put him on show as an almost devilish plotter, a liar and a forger. The problem is that on one level, that of everyday human interaction, some or even much of that may be true - but the picture changes drastically when viewed on the world stage of competing kingdoms. There can be no doubt that Elizabeth's actions were intended to benefit what she believed was the good of England, not that of herself. Nor can there be any doubt that from the English perspective Mary posed a serious threat to the throne, and thus to stability, especially given her Catholic faith. Mary on her part was naïve, to say the least, in believing that in England she would find assistance from a queen whom she had in fact never met, with whom she had only communicated through non-committal letters, and to whom she plainly was a rival - especially given her adamant refusal to give up her claims to the English throne. Add to that her peculiar talent to make herself unpopular with her own people, and the story acquires the kind of deeper profile one would have liked to see in this book.<br />No doubt some, maybe even many of the points Fraser makes are true; yet, many are also based on mere speculation or on sources that cannot but be prejudiced. Towards the end, much of her criticism of the council that tried Mary is no more than an extended paraphrase of Mary's own words on the subject. I was also struck by Fraser's apparent belief in prophecies by astrologists and the like, again something that does not help believability and furthers the impression that the author is too enmeshed in her subject and her mission to be able write a balanced book about it. Worse, by her refusal to truly probe Mary's character and her determination to canonize her, Fraser also ends up telling a story that is too superficial to support itself and claim attention for nearly 700 pages.that of herself. Nor can there be any doubt that from the English perspective Mary posed a serious threat to the throne, and thus to stability, especially given her Catholic faith. Mary on her part was nave, to say the least, in believing that in England she would find assistance from a queen whom she had in fact never met, with whom she had only communicated through non-committal letters, and to whom she plainly was a rival - especially given her adamant refusal to give up her claims to the English throne. Add to that her peculiar talent to make herself unpopular with her own people, and the story acquires the kind of deeper profile one would have liked to see in this book.<BR>No doubt some, maybe even many of the points Fraser makes are true; yet, many are also based on mere speculation or on sources that cannot but be prejudiced. Towards the end, much of her criticism of the council that tried Mary is no more than an extended paraphrase of Mary's own words on the subject. I was also struck by Fraser's apparent belief in prophecies by astrologists and the like, again something that does not help believability and furthers the impression that the author is too enmeshed in her subject and her mission to be able write a balanced book about it. Worse, by her refusal to truly probe Mary's character and her determination to canonize her, Fraser also ends up telling a story that is too superficial to support itself and claim attention for nearly 700 pages.	2003-12-29
US	38272130	R3DPPINP7Q2IIS	015100482X	84454249	Mozart: A Cultural Biography	Books	5	47	53	N	N	A flesh-and-blood Mozart	Though I'm not much of a Mozart buff, and his music generally does little for me, it's impossible to deny his genius or to escape its fascination. So, after again having watched the entertaining nonsense of the movie Amadeus a while ago, I felt compelled to find out a bit more about the REAL story (I knew the gist of it only from Peter Gay's tiny book). What luck then, to find this beautifully produced, comprehensive tome lying around in the remainders corner of a book store. It was worth every cent of the modest price I paid for it. This is biography as it should be. It covers all details of Mozart's personal life, his family, and the troubled relation with his father; it covers many details of his works besides. It also shows his constant wavering on the brink between the dictates of protocol on the one hand and his sense of superiority through creative genius on the other. This delicate balance defined his dealings with Colloredo in Salzburg, with Joseph II in Vienna, and with the hosts of princes, dukes and bishops who governed the mind-boggling patchwork of states that constituted the Holy Roman Empire at that time. In dealing with these issues, Gutman never loses himself in speculation and is eminently sober. Where information is spread thin because of a lack of correspondence or interrupted work on a diary, he just tells us so and moves on. If you are looking for scurrilous anecdotes of the Amadeus kind, you will look in vain here. Mozart, no matter how convinced of his own qualities, would never have dreamt to bow low with his back turned to the ruler of Salzburg, showing him his behind. You will only find his insolence tucked away in a few defiant sentences in a letter, thickly covered by all the servile formulae that were expected of a courtier who ranked no higher than a footman. Neither will you find sycophantic ravings about Mozart's precocious talent. Though the works he produced at a young age were certainly exceptional, their flaws stand out clearly, and many of them also betray the hand of Leopold, as Gutman patiently points out. In fact, I noticed, the flow of great masterpieces only starts once your two-thirds through the book; before that lie the years of the child prodigy dragged all over Europe by his ambitious father, and those of the young composer struggling to find his voice and an audience. By the way, the description of Mozart's work strongly focuses on the opera's, and the sometimes over-extensive (psycho)analysis of the libretti struck me as the only weak aspect of this book. On the whole, however, this book is far more about the man and his world than about the music.<br />You will also look in vain for uncanny overtones in the visit of the masked messenger who ordered the Requiem, and neither is there the tragic end of the neglected genius dumped in a pauper's grave. Mozart had a standard third class funeral, Gutman tells us, as did most Viennese citizens, and the proceedings surrounding it were quite in keeping with those customary at the time. Nor was the composer a death-ridden derelict in his final year; on the contrary, he was in high spirits, and on the brink of the artistic recognition and ensuing financial success that allowed his widow to spend the many years she survived him in the greatest comfort.<br />So is this a boring book then? By no means! Gutman replaces the sensational but stale caricature with a flesh-and-blood human being, and a very likeable one at that, who almost jumps off the pages. His treatment of Mozart's psychology is highly refined and subtle. He was no divine spirit incarnate, he was a man like you and me, this book tells you.<br />But it tells you lots more. It delves deeply into the complicated politics of 18th century Europe, with all its competing rulers, many of them afflicted with strange personalities. Culture and customs are described in similar detail. The ample footnotes contain thumbnail-biographies, delightful anecdotes and musical details alike and almost form a book in themselves. The 800 pages are densely packed with information, not making for a relaxed bed-time read; this book demands your time and concentration, and deserves both! You will reap rich rewards from your investment.form a book in themselves. The 800 pages are densely packed with information, not making for a relaxed bed-time read; this book demands your time and concentration, and deserves both! You will reap rich rewards from your investment.	2003-11-24
US	38272130	R30RA50VL9A3XG	076453694X	678169465	Photoshop 7 Bible	Books	3	36	37	N	N	Comprehensive, yes - but comprehensible?	After dabbling in Photoshop for a while the thing that has become most clear to me is that it isn't an easy program to learn, and no doubt it isn't an easy one to explain either. So I won't blame Deke McClelland for not turning me into a Photoshop genius overnight (which he didn't) - but even if that is too much to expect of any book, this one is a mixed bag in more ways than that. On the plus side, it certainly is comprehensive. Just about every option available in Photoshop is explained - and that is the major downside at the same time. This book is very much written from the viewpoint of the program, not that of the user. If you want to know how to achieve a particular effect, you will just have to browse the 1000+ pages hoping you will stumble on the right tools. Reversely, you may read many an explanation of a tool without ever getting into the clear why you would want to use it. For instance, the chapters on selections, paths and masks made it abundantly clear to me that there are some 5,000 or so ways of selecting part of an image in Photoshop, but I remained in the dark as to which ones are useful under which circumstances. Much of the text on paths and masks actually seemed highly esoteric to me. I can understand that it is impossible to illustrate each and every option visually, but unfortunately the illustrative examples that are given often don't seem to be very compelling (e.g., the possible use of stroking a path is demonstrated by the creation of a tapering line underneath an image of a planet, an effect that could just as easily have been achieved with a simple paint brush.) In fact (and ironically), the graphics are one of the major weaknesses of the book (just take a peek at the hideous cover!). I found them mostly unimaginative, and often too small and badly printed to show up the differences between several effects they were supposed to demonstrate.<br />The accessibility of the book is not helped by the fact that after introducing a function, the author stops naming it and reverts to a mere mention of the keyboard shortcut - so when you're new to this, soon enough you no longer know what he is doing (also, I would urge the publisher to please create separate Windows and Mac editions of this book: the ubiquitous additions of the Mac alternative to Windows shortcuts is highly irritating!).<br />The order of chapters/subjects doesn't seem to be guided by any pedagogical considerations. Layers are not discussed until page 633, even though (as everyone who has ever tried Photoshop or any similar program knows) you really can't do anything at all without an understanding of this function. The style of writing is informal and chatty, and by page 500 or thereabouts the author's facetiousness started to wear thin on me. Maybe after I have gained more experience with Photoshop I will come to appreciate more of McClelland's suggestions. However, as a novice, plowing through this book yielded to me no more than 8 or 9 new insights that I found directly useful.author stops naming it and reverts to a mere mention of the keyboard shortcut - so when youre new to this, soon enough you no longer know what he is doing (also, I would urge the publisher to please create separate Windows and Mac editions of this book: the ubiquitous additions of the Mac alternative to Windows shortcuts is highly irritating!). <BR>The order of chapters/subjects doesnt seem to be guided by any pedagogical considerations. Layers are not discussed until page 633, even though (as everyone who has ever tried Photoshop or any similar program knows) you really cant do anything at all without an understanding of this function. The style of writing is informal and chatty, and by page 500 or thereabouts the author's facetiousness started to wear thin on me. Maybe after I have gained more experience with Photoshop I will come to appreciate more of McClelland's suggestions. However, as a novice, plowing through this book yielded to me no more than 8 or 9 new insights that I found directly useful.	2003-09-27
US	38272130	RQ59OY3Q0B2KT	1854108204	228833370	England's Lost Houses: From the Archives of Country Life	Books	5	56	57	N	N	A superb memento to lost beauty - and ugliness...	In `Brideshead Revisited` Charles Ryder worries about the triumph of `Hooper`, the epitome of all that's mediocre and commonplace, over history, tradition and style. His thoughts are visualised to perfection in a deeply depressing photograph in this book, showing a brand-new street of featureless, drab modern 'cottages' perched literally on the doorstep of dilapidated Beaupre Hall, that is about to be torn down altogether. If you have any feeling at all for English country house traditions and architecture, this book will make your heart ache for all the beauty that was burnt, mutilated, abandoned and left to decay, or, most often and worst of all, deliberately demolished - at a staggering rate of one house a week during parts of the fifties. (Some offering fierce resistance though, like the domed core of magnificent Nuthall Temple, that defied all attempts at demolition and was left to itself for decades, until finally a big load of dynamite blew it away so that the M1 motorway could run its course; Nuthall's foundations remain buried underneath it).<br />Well, as you can see it would be very easy to write a soppy, sentimental book about the subject - but fortunately  Giles Worsley sticks to an eminently sober, scholarly (but lively!) approach. He notes that we lament the loss of 1 in 6 country houses during the 20th century, but that we might rather wonder at the fact that in a century of such huge political, economical and social changes, 5 in 6 survived! Also, he stresses that the downsizing of huge piles into something more convenient or fashionable is not a 20th century invention, but is of all ages. And who could blame the latter-day nobleman for not wanting to maintain a draughty, 150-bedroom Victorian colossus? (the Duchess of Westminster apparently once said that she thought of Eaton Hall as a town rather than a house - and a stay in the immense, British-designed Lalgarh Palace (now hotel) in Bikaner, India, has certainly taught me that Victorian buildings of that size are hardly fit for human occupation!). In fact, the 20th century is exceptional only because it was the first century to produce legislation AGAINST such activities. And finally, not all that was lost was of great historical or architectural importance - much of it was in fact second-rate, plain or downright ugly.<br />Country Life liberally documented the good, the bad and the ugly (at times snubbing the ugly with elegant irony, some amusing examples of which are cited; at other times providing invaluable visual documentation to inspire later reconstructions), and the breathtaking photographs in this book seem to offer a fairly representative cross-section of all that was destroyed or downsized. The quality of the (black and white) pictures is exquisite. They show a wealth of architectural and interior detail, but many of them are also highly atmospheric, mysterious and haunting. The accompanying text is concise, instructive and always interesting (though inevitably a somewhat depressing recital of fires and bankruptcies). I was surprised, by the way, that the book contains no pictures at all of the process of destruction itself; also, for some houses that were dramatically reduced, I would have been interested to see a `before-and-after' comparison. But these are just minor quibbles. This is a magnificent book, beautifully produced on heavy, glossy paper, and is a definite must-have for anyone even remotely interested in this subject!of that size are hardly fit for human occupation!). In fact, the 20th century is exceptional only because it was the first century to produce legislation AGAINST such activities. And finally, not all that was lost was of great historical or architectural importance - much of it was in fact second-rate, plain or downright ugly.<BR>Country Life liberally documented the good, the bad and the ugly (at times snubbing the ugly with elegant irony, some amusing examples of which are cited; at other times providing invaluable visual documentation to inspire later reconstructions), and the breathtaking photographs in this book seem to offer a fairly representative cross-section of all that was destroyed or downsized. The quality of the (black and white) pictures is exquisite. They show a wealth of architectural and interior detail, but many of them are also highly atmospheric, mysterious and haunting. The accompanying text is concise, instructive and always interesting (though inevitably a somewhat depressing recital of fires and bankruptcies). I was surprised, by the way, that the book contains no pictures at all of the process of destruction itself; also, for some houses that were dramatically reduced, I would have been interested to see a `before-and-after comparison. But these are just minor quibbles. This is a magnificent book, beautifully produced on heavy, glossy paper, and is a definite must-have for anyone even remotely interested in this subject!	2003-07-07
US	38272130	R3GQHVCKS0EHHI	0060928832	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	1	85	154	N	N	From yawn to somnolence	On page 753 of this book we meet a James Agate. We read some titbits on his finances, domestic arrangements and even the pronunciation of his name (which he preferred \\"to rhyme with hay-gate\\" whereas his acquaintances chose to say \\"Ay-git\\"). This is the kind of side-tracking Jacques Barzun revels in. It doesn't contribute a thing to your understanding of western cultural history - rather, it's a  waste of space in a book that ambitiously intends to cover science, literature, art, music and philosophy from 1500 to the present. Equally typical is the ubiquitous negation of accepted lore, concepts and words. As a title, \\"The Corrections\\" would have fitted this book better than the soporific novel now bearing it. A random perusal will learn that \\"utopia\\" ought to be \\"eutopia\\"; technics should be called \\"techne\\";  we say democratic when we mean \\"demotic\\"; abstract art isn't abstract; pointillists applied dashes, not dots; Louis XIV never said \\"L'&eacute;tat, c'est moi\\"; Rousseau never urged anybody to go \\"back to nature\\"; evolution was not thought up by Darwin; and Jeanne was called Darc, not d'Arc. Barzun doggedly sticks to his amendments. To indicate the peculiar fusion of the rational and the emotional which in his view defines Romanticism, he insists on using a Chinese term, \\"heart-and-mind\\". He then goes on to use this horrible hybrid on every page, which soon becomes irksome: the originality of a book like this ought to be in a compelling vision, not in such innocuous niceties.<br /><br />Surprisingly, Barzun loves pointing out pedantry in OTHERS - we are reminded of the pot and the kettle. This may be merely annoying, but things turn downright painful where he gets his facts wrong: as when he claims that the Crystal Palace was built by a sir James Parton, even though the attribution to sir Joseph Paxton seems fairly well established. Such errors reinforce the impression that Barzun jotted his text down at random, from memory. In his attempt to be a universal scholar he inevitably exposes the areas where he is not an expert. He delivers some blatant nonsense on music. He implies that the `horizontal' polyphonists were not interested in `vertical' harmony, even though the whole art of counterpoint consists in creating parallel melodic lines that sound harmonious together! He  declares that the advent of the fortepiano has produced a century of badly orchestrated (the word ought to be \\"instrumented\\"  by the way, B. thinks) music: the century of brilliant orchestrators like Beethoven, Berlioz, and Mahler, that is. Equally astounding is the claim that Schoenberg single-handedly saved serious music in the 20th century, even though by the end of that century serialism was obsolete and tonality in full swing again.<br /><br />The final chapters of the book complete its undoing. At last Barzun shows his hidden agenda. He lashes out at contemporary culture as any upper middle class reactionary might do. There is nothing scholarly about it. Western decadence, it turns out, amounts to such horrors as people not wearing ties when going to the opera, or men failing to open doors for women. Understandably, Barzun also feels deeply for the lamentable professor who can no longer trust to inspire awe simply because he IS a professor. Further atrocities include children watching too much TV, and an excess of nudity. Barzun conveniently ignores the fact that the habit of plastering public and private spaces, even churches, with nudes, started in the Renaissance. The only difference seems to be that we no longer need artistic and mythological apologies for displaying nudity, which in itself has proved perennially fascinating. Similarly, Barzun bewails the violence of our times, forgetting that former centuries were in many ways far more brutal; we might be rather glad that most of present-day violence is `virtual', as opposed to whole villages routinely watching people being burned alive by way of a Sunday outing. The shifts not in phenomena, but in their evaluation, marks the shift from \\"dawn\\" to \\"decadence\\", and as Barzun fails to underpin his evaluative shift, his entire project falters.<br /><br />The lack of narrative coherence is no help either. Barzun succumbs to the lure of what DVD-land calls \\"special features\\". His text is dotted with patronizing suggestions of \\"books to read\\".  Apart from inducing the feeling that the real substance is elsewhere, I wonder why we should take Barzun's word for it. Simply because he is a professor? Has he really read ALL books on every subject, that he can so confidently recommend a single one? The system of internal cross-references is pointless: if a theme is addressed that recurs elsewhere in the book, the author indicates those pages. As the average page has two or three of such `hyperlinks', tracking them would have you criss-crossing through the book constantly, at the very real risk of driving you mad, and usually only to find that the indicated pages don't add anything of substance on the subject. Page margins are broken up by citations from historical figures that struck me as fairly random and totally dispensable. Continuity is further uprooted by \\"digressions on a word\\" and by intermediate chapters headed \\"The view from (a certain place) around (a certain year)\\". Thus the reader's attention is constantly bounced to and fro, so it's no wonder you loose track of the author's point (if, in fact, there is any). Chapter headings do not correspond in any particular way to chapter content. The \\"View from Weimar around 1750\\" for instance, is mainly about America, as if the main concern of a Weimar burgher were the USA! Even chronology hasn't been a guiding principle: Barzun skips across the centuries as friskily as Marty McFly in his DeLorean.<br /><br />On page 653 Barzun observes that the modern popularizing historian will often produce but a `catchy recital without the life-giving ingredient of vision'. Ironically, this would be a perfect description of his own book, if it weren't for the `catchy' part..., marks the shift from \\"dawn\\" to \\"decadence\\", and as Barzun fails to underpin his evaluative shift, his entire project falters.    The lack of narrative coherence is no help either. Barzun succumbs to the lure of what DVD-land calls \\"special features\\". His text is dotted with patronizing suggestions of \\"books to read\\".  Apart from inducing the feeling that the real substance is elsewhere, I wonder why we should take Barzun's word for it. Simply because he is a professor? Has he really read ALL books on every subject, that he can so confidently recommend a single one? The system of internal cross-references is pointless: if a theme is addressed that recurs elsewhere in the book, the author indicates those pages. As the average page has two or three of such `hyperlinks', tracking them would have you criss-crossing through the book constantly, at the very real risk of driving you mad, and usually only to find that the indicated pages don't add anything of substance on the subject. Page margins are broken up by citations from historical figures that struck me as fairly random and totally dispensable. Continuity is further uprooted by \\"digressions on a word\\" and by intermediate chapters headed \\"The view from (a certain place) around (a certain year)\\". Thus the reader's attention is constantly bounced to and fro, so it's no wonder you loose track of the author's point (if, in fact, there is any). Chapter headings do not correspond in any particular way to chapter content. The \\"View from Weimar around 1750\\" for instance, is mainly about America, as if the main concern of a Weimar burgher were the USA! Even chronology hasn't been a guiding principle: Barzun skips across the centuries as friskily as Marty McFly in his DeLorean.     On page 653 Barzun observes that the modern popularizing historian will often produce but a `catchy recital without the life-giving ingredient of vision'. Ironically, this would be a perfect description of his own book, if it weren't for the `catchy' part...	2003-06-01
US	38272130	R26EUNT7V6G63M	0802117295	411590835	Dorian: An Imitation	Books	1	5	9	N	N	A horrible book about horrible people	I was surprised to find that this book was published in 2001. Much of it seems so dated: the glorification of the NY meat packing district, where sexual activity enters the realm of surgery, as the epitome of sinful evil; the false heroics of AIDS deaths; drug habits as proof of living on the wild side - I thought we had moved beyond all that, and much of it struck me as vaguely ludicrous rather than shocking or hair-raising.<br />Worse, the device of repeating Wilde's classic story in a modern setting invites continuous comparison with the original, which, not surprisingly, doesn't turn out well for Mr. Self. His Henry Wotton is a very pale shadow indeed of his ancestor, his self-conscious attempts at epigrammatic wit no match for the true brilliance of Wilde's example. It is his unveracious baroque style of expression rather than the content of his words that is hilarious - simply because it is ridiculous within the late 20th century context.<br />The inevitable gay-novel staple of hordes of men, including the author himself, drooling over a gorgeous boy is exploited at very, very tiresome lengths. All the more tiresome because Will Self gives us very little reason to feel the lure of Dorian; he is a thoroughly repulsive character, exuding non of the mystery or naivet&eacute; of the original. But then, all characters in this book are repulsive in one way or another. I'm glad they're fictional, because I wouldn't want to run the risk of meeting one of them in real life, ever! Only with the likes of Brett Easton Ellis will you find this kind of sustained cynicism and brutality - so possibly if you like his works, you may like this one. For me the complete lack of recognizable human emotion, the total absence of even a hint of warmth in any of the protagonists, rendered the book unreadable. An overwrought sex drive and a drug habit alone do not constitute interesting characters! I didn't finish it, actually, though the clue would have been clear to me long before the end even without one of my fellow reviewers in these pages giving it away: it is advertised with almost amateurish pride in a transparent lay-out dodge. For the benefit of those of you still wanting to read this book, I will not repeat the spoiler, even though, as may be clear, I sincerely doubt there is very much to spoil here.ithout one of my fellow reviewers in these pages giving it away: it is advertised with almost amateurish pride in a transparent lay-out dodge. For the benefit of those of you still wanting to read this book, I will not repeat the spoiler, even though, as may be clear, I sincerely doubt there is very much to spoil here.	2003-04-09
US	38272130	RGVGCV2HCV4M9	0393049744	642660655	The Victorians	Books	3	62	73	N	N	Less might have been more!	This book tries to be so many things at once that it ends up being none of them at all. Maybe it is simply impossible to write a coherent book about an entire century if you want to encompass all of its essentials. Every chapter here contains at least two or three themes that in themselves would warrant a book of this size (724 pages). Not to mention the characters: their number is staggering. Wilson never tires of giving us mini-biographies, but there are simply too many of them, so that it becomes impossible to keep up with them (for this reader at least). All in all the final impression is that of a vast collection of snapshots with no organizing principle to string them together other than simple chronology - and not even that is completely consistent. Coherence is not helped by Wilson's way of linking subjects, which struck me as peculiarly associative. Maybe the novelist inside got the better of him. However, it is his novelistic style of writing that makes this book pleasant to read even if it is ultimately unsatisfying. Wilson has clear opinions about the characters he describes and the events they participate in, and doesn't keep them to himself. He is not afraid to unmask the saccharine hypocrisies we still carry with us regarding the Victorians. Florence Nightingale, it turns out for instance, may have been an admirable woman, she was also as racially prejudiced as most of her contemporaries and did not allow a very well qualified black woman named Mary Seacole to work in her hospital. In the end it was Seacole though who did the really tough work at the Crimean front, while Nightingale worked at a safe distance. Queen Victoria gets some rough treatment (as well as, in passing, Elizabeth II, when Wilson states with some disdain that Victoria was 'only slightly better educated than the present monarch', which is clearly not intended as a compliment). On the other hand, Prince Albert can count on almost boundless admiration and is depicted as something not far short of a universal genius. Not only his intelligence and statesmanship are praised to the heavens, even his efforts as an amateur composer are rated very highly indeed (Wilson's opinion that the princely compositions surely outclass those of Vaughan Williams did make me wonder whether the author's acquaintance with VW's oeuvre extends anywhere beyond Greensleeves...). But all these people are in fact only minor characters on Wilson's huge canvas, where the politicians dominate the scene. If there is any red thread discernible in his book, it is the political history of the Victorian era, including its economics, colonialism and warfare. Descriptions are sketchy and, I would guess, hard to follow at times if you weren't already familiar with the basics, but the characters are described very deftly and really come off the paper. Moreover, one of the most striking assets of this book is the way in which Wilson demonstrates to what extent Victorian politics influenced our present-day reality. He also shows how lust for power, lack of vision or mere parochialism and narrow-mindedness can result in decisions that have the most gruesome consequences in the longer run: one can think of more than a few present-day politicians you would want to read these passages!<br />I don't know who to advise this book to. Though it is not bad, it is too garbled to be of much use to somebody unfamiliar with the Victorian era. And those who have a deeper seated interest in this epoch will probably be better off buying books that deal in greater depth with subjects that are merely touched upon here. For instance, when it comes to sociology, culture and psychology Peter Gay's excellent cycle `The Bourgeois Experience` has rather more to offer.far short of a universal genius. Not only his intelligence and statesmanship are praised to the heavens, even his efforts as an amateur composer are rated very highly indeed (Wilson's opinion that the princely compositions surely outclass those of Vaughan Williams did make me wonder whether the author's acquaintance with VW's oeuvre extends anywhere beyond Greensleeves...). But all these people are in fact only minor characters on Wilson's huge canvas, where the politicians dominate the scene. If there is any red thread discernible in his book, it is the political history of the Victorian era, including its economics, colonialism and warfare. Descriptions are sketchy and, I would guess, hard to follow at times if you weren't already familiar with the basics, but the characters are described very deftly and really come off the paper. Moreover, one of the most striking assets of this book is the way in which Wilson demonstrates to what extent Victorian politics influenced our present-day reality. He also shows how lust for power, lack of vision or mere parochialism and narrow-mindedness can result in decisions that have the most gruesome consequences in the longer run: one can think of more than a few present-day politicians you would want to read these passages! <BR>I don't know who to advise this book to. Though it is not bad, it is too garbled to be of much use to somebody unfamiliar with the Victorian era. And those who have a deeper seated interest in this epoch will probably be better off buying books that deal in greater depth with subjects that are merely touched upon here. For instance, when it comes to sociology, culture and psychology Peter Gays excellent cycle `The Bourgeois Experience` has rather more to offer.	2002-12-31
US	38272130	RURDVDYBEUIRY	0743222946	337618584	At Swim, Two Boys	Books	5	6	8	N	N	It's hard work reading this, but it's more than worth it!	This book is not what I would call a page-turner. If English isn't your first language (it isn't mine) getting through it requires hard work; and gauging from other reviews it even does when English IS your native tongue! The book is full of vernacular (Irish) idiom and unexpected twists of phrase; but after a while you grow accustomed to them and start to appreciate their contribution to the very intimate and individual flavour of the work. Though there may be a superficial likeness to Ulysses, this book is nothing near as abstruse. In fact, it is a very straightforward gay coming of age story along the lines of Forster's Maurice, including the love between an insecure intellectual and a cocksure, streetwise urchin - but O'Neill's singularly original style and audacious breadth of canvass save it from the mere clich&eacute;.<br />The strength of the book is the likeability and believability of many of the characters, who together form a colourful troop. Some of them are mainly comic, others mainly tragic, others mainly sage, but none is reduced to any single feature. The changes of scene from the dullness of the Mack family shop to the squalor of the Doylers, to the grand lodgings of the MacMurroughs, and most of all to the wildness of the sea, further help to keep up the interest. O'Neill's verbal landscape-painting is among the most beautiful I ever came across, you can all but feel the cold and the wet and almost smell the ocean. All these ingredients are worked and reworked with infinite patience and great sense of detail. Though at times it made me feel things were dragging, this approach paid huge dividends in the end, when the smaller personal drama's of the two boys, MacMurrough and their families get caught up in the larger drama of the Easter Rising. There, where things turn inevitably tragic, I was surprised to find how much the characters had got under my skin: I was truly profoundly moved, and remained overcome with the sadness of the final pages long after closing the book.<br />There is no denying that the finale is somewhat pathetic and out of proportion with things that went before; on the other hand you might argue that the violence of wars and rebellions is by definition out of proportion with everyday life. And there is no denying either that O'Neill's pen handles the filmic aspects of these scenes with equal deftness as the dialogue, the landscape, or the love scenes in previous chapters (I was surprised at his handling of sex scenes, which are quite explicit without ever disturbing the poetry of the language, let alone descend into vulgarity).<br />The character of MacMurrough felt somewhat less convincing to me than the others: the Oscar Wilde aspect of it is overplayed and his saving Carson (Wilde's prosecutor) from drowning after himself having been incarcerated for Wild-like acts of indecency is really too much of a good thing! He does provide some humorous confrontations with the establishment, though at other times these can become preachy. Nor is his transformation from a vapidly sex obsessed pederast into a loving Maecenas and confirmed freedom fighter quite believable. And finally, though this is by no means your average middle of the road gay novel, O'Neill doesn't escape that one pitfall all gay writers seem to tumble into: he cannot resist the temptation to make all his gay protagonists very attractive men, each very much wanting every other. But in the context of a beautiful, sincere and epic work like this I'm more than happy to forgive these minor faults and grant him that one indulgence.osing the book. <BR>There is no denying that the finale is somewhat pathetic and out of proportion with things that went before; on the other hand you might argue that the violence of wars and rebellions is by definition out of proportion with everyday life. And there is no denying either that O'Neill's pen handles the filmic aspects of these scenes with equal deftness as the dialogue, the landscape, or the love scenes in previous chapters (I was surprised at his handling of sex scenes, which are quite explicit without ever disturbing the poetry of the language, let alone descend into vulgarity).  <BR>The character of MacMurrough felt somewhat less convincing to me than the others: the Oscar Wilde aspect of it is overplayed and his saving Carson (Wilde's prosecutor) from drowning after himself having been incarcerated for Wild-like acts of indecency is really too much of a good thing! He does provide some humorous confrontations with the establishment, though at other times these can become preachy. Nor is his transformation from a vapidly sex obsessed pederast into a loving Maecenas and confirmed freedom fighter quite believable. And finally, though this is by no means your average middle of the road gay novel, O'Neill doesn't escape that one pitfall all gay writers seem to tumble into: he cannot resist the temptation to make all his gay protagonists very attractive men, each very much wanting every other. But in the context of a beautiful, sincere and epic work like this I'm more than happy to forgive these minor faults and grant him that one indulgence.	2002-09-30
US	38272130	RZUA4QHMNGB56	0375420827	766895282	The Art of Travel	Books	5	389	406	N	N	A must for blas&eacute; travellers	In the past, when I still regularly attended graduation parties, such parties were always teeming with graduates-to-be harbouring fanciful travel plans. Everybody seemed intent on getting away a.s.a.p., as long as possible, and to a very far away and preferably out of the way place. They wanted to become travellers, a breed not to be confused with commonplace tourists. I've never been able to detect any intrinsic motivations driving this graduate travelling habit, e.g. a deep-seated and longstanding interest in a particular country or culture. It was simply a matter of opportunity, this jumping at the a chance to be thoroughly irresponsible for a while, before entering on the responsibilities of a steady job. And of course, everybody was going and it would be very un-cool to stay at home. After these people returned from their well-organised adventures, it invariably struck me how little they had changed, and how little they had to tell about the places they had been; apart maybe from random scraps on local customs that I could as easily and more completely have found in any travel guide book. Nevertheless most of these people, even years later, would be prone to lapse into dreamy states of blissful reminiscence at the slightest cue, expressing a deep longing to go back there, preferably to stay. It got me wondering why it is that the same things we find boring or commonplace at home are suddenly deeply interesting simply because they occur 5,000 miles away.<br />I remember one such party where I met an acquaintance who just got her degree in philosophy. I asked her if she was planning on her more or less mandatory world trip as well. But she just gave me a weary smile, tapped the side of her head and said: `Travelling is something you do in here'.<br />In a nutshell that's the question and the essence of the answer in Alain de Botton's thoughtful book on travel. Why do we bother? What do we expect, and why are we so often disappointed? And then again, why do our memories of the trip rarely reflect the disappointments? And what is the clue to not being disappointed? How do you go about really experiencing the place where you are and making it part of yourself? On all such questions De Botton has interesting and often entertaining observations to make. He shows us that the exotic is not defined by long-haul flights and palm trees, but can be found literally on your doorstep if you just know how to look. He explains why a travelling Englishman can be depressed on far away and exotic Barbados and euphoric in nearby, but in many ways equally exotic Amsterdam, or even around the corner in Hammersmith where he lives. As a Dutchman I was fascinated by his detailed analysis of a sign in the arrivals hall of Amsterdam Airport, explaining its exotic nature from a British viewpoint, and the reasons you would never ever find a sign like that in the UK, just across the Channel. De Botton is a master at finding such surprising angles to elucidate his subjects. Moreover he has considerable erudition to add, resulting in an engrossing mixture of philosophical insight, personal experience, and references to artists, writers, explorers and scientists of the past. Mostly these historical figures, Flaubert in Egypt, say, or Humboldt in South America or Van Gogh in the Provence, are exemplary `artists of travel', people who knew how to make the most of their expeditions. By taking their mindset, involving energy, patience and an eye for detail, as a template, De Botton generates some useful suggestions for the modern day traveller who no longer wants to bore himself by `scoring' obligatory highlights in the guidebook star-rating order, or who refuses to be a slave to his camera any longer. He may even give you some clues as to how to deal with that greatest travelling problem of them all, the fact that wherever you go, you always have to take yourself along.<br />In all, an elegant, intelligent, thought-provoking, amusing and useful little book, that nobody who takes travelling seriously should miss. Don't take it with you though - it won't last you much longer than an afternoon on the beach...obody who takes travelling seriously should miss. Don't take it with you though - it won't last you much longer than an afternoon on the beach...	2002-07-30
US	38272130	R2FLT8ZQI5DN4P	039304632X	23611299	The Voyage of the Narwhal	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A book about very cold places: warmly recommended!	I picked up this book at a local book store because it was offered as a remainder at bargain price and it simply looked so great: a beautiful cover suggestive of nostalgia as well as mystery, and an equally beautiful interior embellished with 19th century engravings. A must-have: but what kind of a must-have I only realised after reading it. This truly is one of the best novels I have read in years. As a historical novel it is on a par with the works of Rose Tremain or A.S. Byatt. It strikes a perfect balance between, on the one hand, well researched detail concerning the hype for arctic exploring and blind hero-worship that struck the mid-19th century bourgeoisie, and amazingly refined character study on the other hand. The clash of personalities between the humane and intelligent scientist who suffers from a chronic inability to take decisive action, and the blindly ambitious man of action who never stops to think about anything, generates tremendous tension (as well as physical danger). It is the classical conflict between id and ego, or Apollo and Dionysos if you like, but transplanted into a surprising context, and explored with great psychological subtlety. And around this dramatic core the women, left at home worrying, and the Eskimo's, lost in a world they don't understand and that doesn't understand them, open up different, equally surprising and sometimes also comical perspectives on the proceedings. Fortunately Barrett is a wise enough writer not to make anyone the winner or looser in the end: all have won, and all have lost.<br />The backdrop to all this are the arctic regions of Canada, which I had feared might prove a somewhat monotonous and bleak scenery, which they are anything but. On the contrary, Barrett, through the pen of her main character, is able to describe the strange beauties of these places so seductively that next she had me seeking out atlases and books of photographs on the arctic. Actually the scenery becomes far more than scenery, it is an active part of the drama, almost like a character in itself.<br />Furthermore, while never piling it on too thickly, the author keenly exploits the adventure novel aspect of people setting out on a long journey, on no more than skimpy pretexts and at considerable danger to their lives, to discover places in a time when there still were places left to discover. That they mostly did so to attain their `fifteen minutes of fame', guided by no more than a vague (and from our perspective pretty ridiculous) notion of heroism, or by some side-tracked scientific interest, makes the pursuits of these people all the more touching as well as baffling.<br />A great book - don't miss it!s an active part of the drama, almost like a character in itself. <BR>Furthermore, while never piling it on too thickly, the author keenly exploits the adventure novel aspect of people setting out on a long journey, on no more than skimpy pretexts and at considerable danger to their lives, to discover places in a time when there still were places left to discover. That they mostly did so to attain their `fifteen minutes of fame', guided by no more than a vague (and from our perspective pretty ridiculous) notion of heroism, or by some side-tracked scientific interest, makes the pursuits of these people all the more touching as well as baffling. <BR>A great book - don't miss it!	2002-05-21
US	38272130	R1FBB15OC6ATAJ	0374524653	761564208	Lytton Strachey: The New Biography	Books	3	54	60	N	N	Was this life really so interesting?	It is indeed a courageous undertaking to write the biography of the man who reinvented the genre. But, going by all the praise lavished on his life of Lytton Strachey, Holroyd has succeeded. And surely he cannot be faulted for his style of writing, which is lively, expressive, subtly humorous, and makes inventive use of metaphor. And yet, and yet... I became interested in Strachey not so much through reading his \\"Queen Victoria\\" which, frankly, I found rather boring and surprisingly humourless; but after seeing the movie \\"Carrington\\", based on Holroyds biography; - and much as I hate to say this, I liked the movie better.<br />The main problem simply is that Strachey's life was too uneventful to command attention for nearly 700 pages. What you end up with is this image of an old-maidish, pampered, and astonishingly self-centred man forever reading books in the aloofness of his country cottage while unaccountably being the object of universal adoration. The final and supposedly climactic love-affair with Roger Senhouse might have provided some eleventh-hour excitement, but honestly doesn't amount to more than the clich&eacute; of the unattractive (but intelligent, rich and famous) middle aged man infatuated with the vapid, reluctant and opportunistic (but very pretty) much younger man.<br />Surely Holroyd is a bit to blame as well for not gaining full hold of our (well, at least my) attention. Here we have The Apostles and the \\"Bloomsberries\\" in their heyday, with Diaghilev, Nijinsky and the likes casually thrown in as well. An incredible collection of brilliant and colourful people; and yet all they seem to occupy themselves with is bourgeois bickerings, common gossip, parties, parties, parties, and amorous obsessions of a peculiarly puerile nature. Where is all the wit and dazzling conversation that is frequently reported by Holroyd, but rarely demonstrated? We're told about a lot of people and things, but they remain abstractions. Even a character as bizarre as Ottoline Morrell remains a mere cipher. The frequent trips to France and Spain read like depersonalised itenaries from a travel agent's brochure, and we are kept in the dark about their meaning in Lytton's life.<br />Unfortunately Holroyd reverts to an overdose of Freudian psycho-analytical blabla to lend depth to his characters. This largely obsolete approach to psychology remains a staple of biographers, probably because it offers such metaphorically appealing instant explanations of all relational problems and personal obsessions. Seeing rather too much of Mama lately? - hello Oedipus! Such off-the-peg explanations add very little to our understanding of the person. Actually I didn't find this book all too insightful psychologically speaking. E.g., the bouts of anxiety and depression that troubled Carrington in her final years pop up out of nowhere as a rather too hasty prelude to her suicide. Her complicated relationship with Strachey is underplayed, so that at times she emerges more like a luxury housekeeper with a talent for painting than as Strachey's ticket to survival. For clearly it was she alone who saved him from utter and desparate loneliness (as well as he her). Gretchen Gerzina's biography of Carrington, in all its compactness, is much closer to the essence and tragedy of both Carrington's and Lytton's personalities, and the peculiar chemistry between them, it seems to me.<br />Another strange thing is that we get to know just about nothing about Strachey's sexual pursuits. Now call me unhealthily curious if you like, but Lytton himself was known to speak disparagingly of Virginia Woolf's books because of their 'lack of copulation'. So where is his own? How can you write 700 pages about one of the most notable and visible homosexuals in England at the time, and yet in the end leave the reader uncertain whether the man ever had any sexual contacts with anyone at all???<br />And the other, more troubling question that remains in the end is: why would thisman deserve so much attention? His lasting output amounts to no more than three books. And Strachey may have thought Forster (another spectre relegated to the sidelines by Holroyd) a dreary 'old maid' (projection, the dedicated Freudian might wonder?), but himself certainly never mustered the courage or conviction to write something like \\"Maurice\\", let alone anything else approaching Forster's novelistic output! And output aside, Marie-Jacqueline Lancaster has shown in her collectors-item biography of Brian Howard, who was in many ways Strachey's extroverted counterpart, that you can even write a fascinating book about somebody who produced literally nothing at all of worth during his lifetime (could somebody please reprint this book!). Starting on Holroyds book I expected a classic like Furbank's Forster or Ellman's Wilde. Alas, it wasn't so; which is partly due to the fact that Strachey was simply a more superficial and less tragic or extravagant figure than either of these; and partly to the fact that Holroyd fails to make the most of the brilliant company he associated with.o much attention? His lasting output amounts to no more than three books. And Strachey may have thought Forster (another spectre relegated to the sidelines by Holroyd) a dreary 'old maid' (projection, the dedicated Freudian might wonder?), but himself certainly never mustered the courage or conviction to write something like \\"Maurice\\", let alone anything else approaching Forster's novelistic output! And output aside, Marie-Jacqueline Lancaster has shown in her collectors-item biography of Brian Howard, who was in many ways Strachey's extroverted counterpart, that you can even write a fascinating book about somebody who produced literally nothing at all of worth during his lifetime (could somebody please reprint this book!). Starting on Holroyds book I expected a classic like Furbank's Forster or Ellman's Wilde. Alas, it wasn't so; which is partly due to the fact that Strachey was simply a more superficial and less tragic or extravagant figure than either of these; and partly to the fact that Holroyd fails to make the most of the brilliant company he associated with.	2002-05-13
US	38272130	R27FWDVLBE56AX	0060934972	181072646	The Notorious Dr. August: His Real Life and Crimes	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A truly great book: it's worth putting up with its flaws	So much is wrong with this book that that in itself adds to its indisputable stature. It is a tribute to Bram's genius as a writer that he gets away with a plot as twisted and overdressed as this one, hinging on a few extremely unlikely coincidences and introducing Brahms and Freud as walk-ons just to add some extra nostalgic flavour.  And he not only gets away with it, he drags the reader along. This is old-fashioned, big time, deeply engrossing story-telling. But the ultimate success of the book is in the details of the characters, even the minor ones. The unforgettable image of Brahms blowing smoke-bubbles on a Baden-Baden street is not only very touching, but seems to tell us almost as much about the man as half a biography might do. And Bram pulls off this trick with equal deftness if the person at hand happens to be fictional. His main characters are few in number and the real plot is in their emotional development, which is quite as complicated as the surface plot of the book, but in contrast to that totally believable. It even makes you tolerate the absurd unlikelihood of, say, meeting an American enemy from many years ago in the streets of Constantinople, or happening upon your childhood friend from the brothel who is now rich and famous, and then falling in love with her son...  I should add that at times I wondered if Bram was anticipating the (I suppose inevitable) movie to be made of this book.<br />So why not five stars? Well, frankly, towards the end all the symbolism and the search for a deeper meaning do get the better of Bram, and the characters turn slightly annoying. They have run their course, and the aftermath is distinctly less compelling. Also, just a little too much gay pride propaganda seems to seep in. Furthermore, the weird collection of characters suddenly crowding the story in the Coney Island finale give it a disconcertingly John Irving-like twist that to me felt very out of place, and even out of style. Nor does the compulsion for closure do much good; things are wrapped up just a little too neatly at the end. Actually, the book would have been better had it finished somewhere near the passage where the narrator himself observes that most books would end there.<br />Still, all this grumbling should be no reason for you not to read this book, because believe me: not many are better, and most are much, much worse! Bram is, no doubt, a very great writer, and I for one eagerly look forward to his next creation.ure do much good; things are wrapped up just a little too neatly at the end. Actually, the book would have been better had it finished somewhere near the passage where the narrator himself observes that most books would end there. <BR>Still, all this grumbling should be no reason for you not to read this book, because believe me: not many are better, and most are much, much worse! Bram is, no doubt, a very great writer, and I for one eagerly look forward to his next creation.	2002-05-13
US	38272130	R3IWV8XQJCKK75	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	1	202	247	N	N	Excruciatingly annoying and very, very boring	So this book is supposed to be on a par with Mann's 'Buddenbrooks' (well, it is according to Michael Cunningham on the cover of my paperback copy). Forget it (and please don't insult one of the greatest writers who ever lived). I had no trouble at all finishing the over 700 pages that 'Buddenbrooks' covers. But the only way to finish 'The Corrections' was quitting it, a decision I only postponed because on principle I never quit a book. So I struggled through 320 pages blindly ignoring the obvious fact that it wasn't going anywhere. Well, it wasn't. 'The Corrections' seems to be just the next book by a novelist who took a course in contemperary writing. All basic rules taught in such a course can be seen to full effect in this novel (or whatever you should call it). They run something like this, I imagine:<br />1. Avoid clear story lines at all times, but instead apply a  garble of as many flashbacks and flash forwards as you can possibly fit in.<br />2. Annoy your reader with constant slow-motion, focussing on details of details, or on reflections on musings on thoughts of characters. Hallucinations are also great! The content or relevance of these are not an issue; the more trivial they seem the more suggestive of hidden depths they will be (and your reader, who is far less clever than you are, will never find out that there are no such hidden depths). Don't forget: banality is the hallmark of a contemporary novel!<br />3. Be very, very clever. Insert as many citable oneliners as you can. Don't worry if they are totally gratuitous (\\"Dry land lacked this z-axis\\"). Also, it is good to add many difficult words, a few in foreign languages, preferably. Don't ever say that 'things are quiet because father has taken to sleeping a lot'; better say that 'a Pax Somnis is descended on the household'. Doesn't that sound literary! And of course show off everything you (or your encyclopaedia) know: add little asides on say, Scandinavian history, Baltic politics, Dutch waterworks, psychofarmaceutical treatment or organ registration.<br />4. Don't bother with chapters or even paragraphs - just ramble on at will! Please wallow in the conviction that your novel is so engrossing the reader will never want to put it down, so no breaks are needed. Which, by the way, saves you the trouble of structuring your plot. Or better still, you don't even need one!<br />5. Use lots of similes. Far-fetched is always OK. Or you can be just plain ridiculous and, say, liken the act of intercourse to a model railroad engine tunneling up `warm and gently corrugated recesses'.<br />6. Avoid any trace of normality in your characters. A story becomes so much more interesting if people are paranoid, selfish, destructive, stark raving mad, abusive, addicted to drugs and porn, incontinent and generally dysfunctional! No character, not even a secondary one, should be without its great, dark tragedy.<br />7. Add gimmicks: a little picture of a logo here, a little diagram there, marked 'figure 1' - very sophisticated!<br />8. Of course sex should always be the clue to everything, which also gives you great opportunities to write very modern things with lots of four-letter words! You may even occasionally want to print these in capital letters.<br />9. Other, preferably revolting details involving bodily fluids or excrement are also very contemporary: use them!<br />Well, you get the picture, and it isn't pretty. What Franzen tries to do has been done already, and so much better, by for instance Jay McInerney or Douglas Coupland. They prove that it is actually possible to write gripping novels about ordinary people, and that you can expose some of the tragedies of living a modern, urban life without reverting to self-conscious intellectualism, pedantry and forced 'literariness'; that you can even do so without boring your reader into a stupor. So please, don't waste your money on this book, as I unfortunately did!terworks, psychofarmaceutical treatment or organ registration. <BR>4. Don't bother with chapters or even paragraphs - just ramble on at will! Please wallow in the conviction that your novel is so engrossing the reader will never want to put it down, so no breaks are needed. Which, by the way, saves you the trouble of structuring your plot. Or better still, you don´t even need one!<BR>5. Use lots of similes. Far-fetched is always OK. Or you can be just plain ridiculous and, say, liken the act of intercourse to a model railroad engine tunneling up `warm and gently corrugated recesses'. <BR>6. Avoid any trace of normality in your characters. A story becomes so much more interesting if people are paranoid, selfish, destructive, stark raving mad, abusive, addicted to drugs and porn, incontinent and generally dysfunctional! No character, not even a secondary one, should be without its great, dark tragedy.<BR>7. Add gimmicks: a little picture of a logo here, a little diagram there, marked ´figure 1´ - very sophisticated!<BR>8. Of course sex should always be the clue to everything, which also gives you great opportunities to write very modern things with lots of four-letter words! You may even occasionally want to print these in capital letters.<BR>9. Other, preferably revolting details involving bodily fluids or excrement are also very contemporary: use them!<br />Well, you get the picture, and it isn't pretty. What Franzen tries to do has been done already, and so much better, by for instance Jay McInerney or Douglas Coupland. They prove that it is actually possible to write gripping novels about ordinary people, and that you can expose some of the tragedies of living a modern, urban life without reverting to self-conscious intellectualism, pedantry and forced 'literariness'; that you can even do so without boring your reader into a stupor. So please, don´t waste your money on this book, as I unfortunately did!	2002-03-11
US	38272130	RBETT3F3ETKCU	0195126610	199959945	The Compleat Conductor	Books	1	47	60	N	N	Beethoven and Toscanini make way, Schuller knows best!	This is a very bizarre book indeed. Schuller's ideals are laudable in themselves: don't tamper with scores and don't let your ego get in the way of what the composer is saying. But his attempts to prove his point are flawed in almost every way, mainly because he constantly breaks the rules that he set out himself to start with. He obsessively analyses recordings of a number of famous great works with the score in hand, and points out the innumerable sins, blunders and stupidities that in his view virtually every conductor allows himself in virtually every bar. For some reason the author presumes he is just about the only one who knows how it should be done, or cares about doing it well, or even more amazingly: knows what the composer actually meant. E.g.: Changing anything in a score is a mortal sin, because the composer knows best - only Schuller knows better, pointing out where the composer 'forgot' something or is 'obviously' wrong, and changing instrumentation, tempo or dynamics accordingly. For some unspecified reason (a personal hotline to the hereafter maybe?) the author is the only conductor allowed to make such decisions; be sure he will hurl accusations of incompetence or arrogance at others who do the same thing! These inconsistencies are an inevitable result from the assumption that scores are fairly unambiguous and composers well nigh infallible. Of course, they aren't and they aren't.<br />Schuller claims objectivity, but his methods wouldn't hold their own against even the mildest scientific criteria. How can one realistically compare recordings from the '30s to state of the art CD-sound from the '90s? Can one really, objectively and consistently, judge the difference between pp and ppp? And if Schuller can't hear a particular detail, is that proof of an inadequate performance - or does it say something about differences in recording techniques, about the (unspecified) playback equipment Schuller used, or even about his hearing? Worse, Schuller's reasoning is rarely other than subjective: 'Any intelligent reading of the score will make it obvious...', and arguments like that. Also he will point out how 'natural', 'thrilling' or 'perfect'something will sound if done the right (i.e., Schuller's) way, forgetting that these are all matters of taste. Where he really gives himself away is in his vitriolic attack on the authenticists, which is so poorly argued and random that I find it hard to understand without wondering about personal motives (Schuller pulls all the stops here, and enjoys adding a footnote in which he points out that in a supposedly 'expert' booklet note on an authentic Beethoven recording the term 'mezza voce' is misspelled as 'mesa voce'. This turns out unexpectedly funny seeing that Schuller himself also misspells the term, as 'messa voce'!).<br />Maybe for some this book invites a new look at some scores, but it also turns music-making into a scholastic exercise at the risk of draining all feeling out of it. The useful points that are made could have been made in under 50 pages; the rest is just obsessive repetition. It might have warranted 2 stars, maybe, but I felt the overenthusiastic average rating needed some reduction towards a more realistic level.ing is rarely other than subjective: 'Any intelligent reading of the score will make it obvious...', and arguments like that. Also he will point out how 'natural', 'thrilling' or 'perfect'something will sound if done the right (i.e., Schuller's) way, forgetting that these are all matters of taste. Where he really gives himself away is in his vitriolic attack on the authenticists, which is so poorly argued and random that I find it hard to understand without wondering about personal motives (Schuller pulls all the stops here, and enjoys adding a footnote in which he points out that in a supposedly 'expert' booklet note on an authentic Beethoven recording the term 'mezza voce' is misspelled as 'mesa voce'. This turns out unexpectedly funny seeing that Schuller himself also misspells the term, as 'messa voce'!).<BR>Maybe for some this book invites a new look at some scores, but it also turns music-making into a scholastic exercise at the risk of draining all feeling out of it. The useful points that are made could have been made in under 50 pages; the rest is just obsessive repetition. It might have warranted 2 stars, maybe, but I felt the overenthusiastic average rating needed some reduction towards a more realistic level.	2002-02-07
US	38272130	RI4TZLXAHXIU8	0446608009	435144744	The Drowning People	Books	1	23	27	N	N	Let the author try again - in 20 years or so	Mason is being touted as some kind of adolescent prodigy, but the book simply doesn't deliver. It is an extremely convoluted and unlikely story, overstuffed with cities, castles and too obviously 'interesting' rich people. Characterisation hardly evolves beyond caricature, which is fatal especially for the main figures, James and Ella. Ella emerges as some kind of histrionic Gorgon, fickle and highly unlikeable, which makes it hard to see why James would fall in love with her in the first place, let alone have his every emotion and action dictated by her (fancy attempting to have sex with your best male friend only to prove to your girl, who suspects you of being gay, that it doesn't work for you. There's a bit of twisted psychology for you if ever there was!) This uncritical slavery doesn't inspire much sympathy for his character either. Mason doesn't bother to explain all this, probably being too busy keeping the storyline together. Yet the love of James for Ella is the pivotal element, without an understanding of which the plot simply falls apart.Mason's inexperience, not as much as a writer but simply in life, shines through on every page. He seems selfconscious about this, judging by all the times he lets his (elderly) narrator muse on the inexperience and silliness of youth. All this is not too convincing. Though not per se badly written, there are some irritating mannerisms, not least the far too frequent use of the tag 'you see', probably meant to create the intimate feel of the narrator directly addressing us. But in a novel where there is really so very little to be seen (and what there is, you will have seen at least 20 pages before the narrator comes out with it) this did strike me as somewhat ridiculous: like somebody telling you the clue (ta-taaa) to a joke that has fallen flat long before. So forget about this book. Too many words to describe too little, too many aspirations and too little realisation of them.	2002-02-05
