US	38350586	RJR6ERC2U49EF	0451216954	724980281	Dark Lover (Black Dagger Brotherhood, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great new paranormal author!	I started this book w/ virtually no expectations.  Soon I was sucked into the story and sorry to see it end.  I'm just going to give a brief overview, as not to ruin the story. <br /> <br />Wrath is the King of Vampires, though he does not want to be King.  A race that is virtually extinct, the Black Dagger Brotherhood fights to protect their own.  Wrath is asked by a friend and brother, Darius, to help his daughter who is half human/half vampire and has no idea what change she will soon be going through.  Wrath refuses to help, however, for he believes that he can't help anyone.  Not even for Darius will he come out of his self-imposed shell.  When Darius is killed, Wrath knows that he is the only one who can help Beth. <br /> <br />The romance between Wrath and Beth is beyond hot.  It is explosive and erotic.  The suspense part of the book is very edge-of-your-seat.  Ward introduces other members of the Black Dagger Brotherhood, which makes the reader want even more.   <br /> <br />Overall, J.R. Ward is an author to watch.  I am confident that her books will be worth the wait.  Don't miss this book!	2005-10-07
US	38350586	R120QC0CE90CK9	0345480120	346835296	Breaking Point (Troubleshooters, Book 9)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A good ending for Max and Gina	Breaking Point restored my faith in SB as an author.  I did like Hot Target, but I thought Breaking Point showed signs of the Suzanne Brockmann we know and love.  I'll just give a brief summary of the book w/o going into too much detail. <br /> <br />Max Bhagat has never forgotten nor forgiven himself for not saving Gina Vitagliano from the terrorists who altered the course of her young life.  Neither has he been able to live with himself for wanting Gina, twenty years his junior, as much as he does.  When he is informed that Gina has been killed in Hamburg, he is determined to find who is responsible, admitting too late to himself how much he loves her (go figure). <br /> <br />Gina left the States to go to Kenya after finally figuring out that her and Max were a hopeless cause.  Gina meets Molly Anderson who she joins up with to help people who really need it.  She just thinks it would be an added bonus if she could get over Max. <br /> <br />In a style that could be hard for some readers to get used to, SB flashes back to seventeen months prior to the present day where Max is going through physical therapy after being shot.  It then jumps head to four months prior to present day where Gina and Molly are in Kenya.  Eventually it all ties together in a way that really worked.  In an alliance that is unlikely, David Jones aka Grady Morant and Max team up to save the women they love.  Add in a little Jules and you have a read that is sure to please you.    <br />	2005-07-21
US	38350586	R17GOJ56GXB85Z	0446614483	650856322	Nothing To Fear	Books	5	83	85	N	N	Karen Rose keeps getting better and better!	I would give this book six stars if I could!   <br /> <br />Ethan Buchannan has a mission to find his godson who was kidnapped.  Alec is a twelve year old deaf/mute boy who was taken from his house for a five million dollar ransom.  He would do anything to help Alec's mom find him, no matter what the cost to himself. <br /> <br />Sue Conway has her reasons for kidnapping Alec.  After 10 years in prison, she is starting her retribution on the people she feels put her there.  The kidnapping of Alec is just the beginning of a chain of events that was so horrifying and creepy, I had to put the book down at times.  Karen Rose writes evil so well, you feel like you're in Sue's head w/ her. <br /> <br />Dana Dubrinksy runs the Hanover House which is a place where battered women come for aid.  When Sue shows up, she has no reason to doubt her.  Her face is bruised and her \\"son\\" shows definite signs of trama.   <br /> <br />Ethan and Dana meet not knowing that Dana is housing the very person he is looking for.  The relationship between the two is extremely intense.  Both have their own dark secrets which they are trying to get past.  Eventually they have to team up, along with characters that KR has introduced in previous books (Caroline and Max, Mia and Abe) along with a new character (or two) that is sure to have his own story somewhere down the line, to find Alec before he is killed. <br /> <br />Do not miss this book!  It is a true winner.  It will be along wait before her next book is out.	2005-07-21
US	38350586	R3SJHK5BC0LQ84	0778322009	505530849	Skintight (MIRA)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Not *that* bad	I am a little surprised by the first two reviews of Skintight.  I enjoyed Susan Andersen's newest book, thought it isn't my favorite by her.  It was exactly what I expect when I pick up one of her books. <br /> <br />Jax Gallager is a professional poker player who gambled away a family heirloom that he doesn't have in his possession.  It is a 1927 World Series baseball that his grandfather caught and had signed by the entire Yankees team.  Unfortunately his father's widow, who he is convinced is a gold digger, has the ball.  While the whole \\"she's a stripper, therefore a gold digger\\" cliche was happening, I really enjoyed the story.  Treena was misunderstood, but really, would you expect anything else?  I really enjoyed the story overall.   <br /> <br />The secondary characters added to the story, as did Treena's friend Carly.  Andersen opened up for the sequel, which I'm sure will be Carly's story.  I always find her characters so loveable.  Skintight was no exception.	2005-07-05
US	38350586	R1SY0OZYR4IJ6Y	0345467930	857624873	Hot Target (Troubleshooters, Book 8)	Books	5	5	13	N	N	I LOVED it!	Suz Brockmann returns with another installment of the SEAL's we know and love.  This is the story of Chief Cosmo Richter, who is on leave from the team to help his mother after a fall.  He decides go to work for his old CO, Tom Paoletti at Troubleshooters, Inc. for the last few weeks of his leave.  Though protecting the \\"Party Girl Producer\\", J. Mercedes Chadwick isn't an assignment that he's too interested in doing, he'll do anything to help Tom. <br /> <br />Producing a true story turned movie that is about a gay couple during WWII, Jane has attracted the attention of The Freedom Network.  The Freedom Network is a terrorist cell operating out of Idaho.  When Cosmo and his team comes into protect her, sparks fly.  Between Jane and everyone.  Convinced that she has to keep her persona of the Party Girl up, Jane flirts with every member of the team.  Cosmo quickly sees through the facade and real sparks soon fly between the two. <br /> <br />When I found out that Jules Cassidy, gay FBI agent, was going to have his own storyline in HT, I knew there would be contraversy.  However, I thought it was GREAT.  Suz really wrote the scenes well.  I was not uncomfortable nor offended to read about Jules romantically.  Where it did take away from Cosmo and Jane at times, overall I think that it was an expectional addition to an already exceptional story. <br /> <br />Hot Target is a wonderful addition to the series.  With the action and romance, the mystery and love, this is a truly remarkable book.  I read it in less than 24 hours.  I can't wait until Max and Gina's story next!	2005-01-13
US	38350586	R2T33JHR12ABSR	0060591102	441333993	The Protector (Crossfire Series, Book 1)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A great start....	To a great trilogy.  Gennita Low continues writing books that pull the reader in right away.  The book is a perfect start to her Crossfire trilogy. <br /> <br />Lt. Jazz Zeringue and GEM operative Viviviene Verreau get thrown together on the same mission, but for different reasons.  For Jazz, it's stopping a known terrorist from smuggling weapons.  For Vivi, it's stopping the same terrorist from selling women (of all ages) into prostitution against their will.   <br /> <br />Vivi has always had a mistrust of soliders and Jazz is determined to find out why at the same time getting past her defenses.  Sparks fly between the two while they try to accomplish the mission they are on. <br /> <br />Can't wait for the next one!	2005-01-12
US	38350586	RC8A0DVHK9SC1	0060799250	42714979	Witness: For the Prosecution of Scott Peterson	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Nothing new, really...	The reason that I even give this book three stars is because it was a new perspective of the Peterson trial.  Especially when there is so little out there that isn't pure speculation. <br /> <br />There was little written in this book that we haven't heard from the media.  Pages of the phone transcripts between Amber and Scott, her recollection of her first meetings with Scott.  The new things were how she felt when she found out Scott was married.  Of course we all had idea, but we never knew because she never talked after that first press conference.  Some of her memories from her childhood (which I can't figure why it's relevant).  What is was like being a single mother struggling to raise her daughter.  What is what like meeting the person that you thought was the perfect man.  In her book, she states that she's \\"A intensly protective mother\\".  And that was right after she says that she asked Scott (after seeing him only two or three times) to pick up her daughter.  That was an eye rolling moment, for me. <br /> <br />I know that Amber Frey probably thought that her story needed to be told.  I just thought it was tasteless that she did it so soon after the trial and penalty phase.  The only thing I can hope is that she does find peace in her life, whether I agree with the writing of the book or not.	2005-01-08
US	38350586	R3K9BFHROJ49H8	0821776312	665001835	Pure Dynamite (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A great read...	Patiently awaiting another book by Lauren Bach, I wasn't dissapointed with Pure Dynamite.  This book will pull you in from the first page and hold you capitaved throughout the last. <br /> <br />Special Agent Adam Duval was only supposed to go undercover in prison for two weeks, at the most.  After three months, Adam knew it was time to get out.  The only problem was his cellmate had to come with him.  Lyle McEdwin is the youngest son of Willy McEdwin who, along with his three sons, are on the FBI's Top 10 Most Wanted list.  After a blowout on his last mission, Adam was willing to do anything to get out of \\"desk duty\\", even if it meant going to prison. <br /> <br />It all seemed to be going well until an off-duty police officer recognized them.  In the shootout that followed, Lyle was shot, which meant that his \\"in\\" to the McEdwin family could be dying.  Since taking him to the hospital was out of the question, Adam took him to a clinic where he finds Dr. Renata Curtis.  Little did Renata know that staying to finish her paperwork would change the course of her life. <br /> <br />This is a wonderful romantic suspense, it's heavy on the romance and heavy on the suspense, which is just the way I like to have them!  The only complaint that I have about this book is that it is too short!  I can't wait till Bach's next book is out.	2004-10-19
US	38350586	R2JDRLA23DWICC	0446614475	6228194	I'm Watching You (Warner Forever)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Another winner by Rose!	ASA Kristen Mayhew has dedicated her life to putting criminals behind bars.  Then someone decides to take the law into their own hands, killing the criminals that Kristen was unable to convict.  Kristen herself is horrified by what the media has labeled the Vigilante Killer.  After each murder, the killer sends Kristen a note along with a box that will lead the police to the grave of the victim.  Though Kristen doesn't grieve for the criminals that have been murdered, nor does she condone anyone taking the law into their own hands.   <br /> <br />Detective Abe Reagen has returned to Homicide after five years undercover.  After the brutal shooting of his wife six years before and watching her waste away for the five years following the shooting, Abe has only tried to forget.  When he meets Kristen for the second time, he is free to let his feelings show.  Though he knows that she's suffered heartache in her life, he also knows he can't let her go.  Together they embark on a journey to find a killer who is killing killers and rapists.  The race to find the killer is intensified when the family of one of the Vigilante Killer's victims vows to find out who the killer is.  And the best way to find that out is through Kristen. <br /> <br />I was very surprised who the killer was, but I thought it was very fitting.  And the epilouge was perfect!  Karen Rose is on my auto-buy list.  This is her best book yet.  There is a enough romance in the mix that it makes it great.   <br /> <br />Don't miss it!	2004-09-23
US	38350586	R1JCP5OX1GMTYC	0399152024	113911653	Bait (Robards, Karen)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Robards winner....	After Beachcomber, I didn't have high expectations for Bait.  I read the book in less than two days and think it is one of Robards best contemporaries to date.  She has a way of tieing all the plotlines together at the end that you hate to read the last page! <br /> <br />Maddie Fitzgerald is a new advertising agency owner who is in New Orleans to try to land an account that can make her agency a success.  While in her hotel room, she is brutally attacked and almost killed.  Narrowly escaping a killer, Maddie tries to put the horrific attack behind her.  When the FBI shows up unexpectedly to question her, Maddie is convinced that her past has finally caught up with her. <br /> <br />Sam McCabe (who is hhhhhhot) has been chasing a serial killer all over the southern US.  Always one step behind, McCabe only arrives at each scene after the murder has taken place.  Convinced that the killer is going to go back to finish the job with Maddie, Sam decides to follow her home to St. Louis so his team can protect her.  The longer he is near Maddie, the more adament he is that nothing ever happens to her.   <br /> <br />The suspense in this story is great, with plenty of romance thrown in.  The ending was great, if a little abrupt.  I can't wait for KR's next book!	2004-08-06
US	38350586	RP35JDZ4YSJ64	0553587188	94468636	Lucky's Lady (Bayou)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Loved it....	I picked up this book with trepidation.  Not a big thriller reader, this book was recommended to me as it is one of Hoag's earlier works where she had just started to branch into the suspense genere.  With romance still on the front burner, this book held me from the first page to the last.<br />Lucky Doulcet knows exactly what the Sheridan twins are like.  He's had his fill of one and there's no way he's going to get involved with another.  Shelby Sheridan was the person that sent him on his path to self destruction and he wasn't giving up what peace he found to get involved with her twin, Serena, no matter how much he lusted after her.  Dr. Serena Sheridan had come home to Lousiana from Charleston for a vacation, finding the family plantation in an uproar.  Her grandfather has retreated to his cabin in his beloved swamp, her sister, Shelby, seems more malicious than ever, and to top it all off, there's Lucky.  All she wanted was a guide to take her into the swamp that she fears with every breath in her body.  She gets much more than she bargained for.<br />If you enjoy Hoag's thrillers, you most likely won't like this book.  I think that is why it is getting unfavorable reviews, because readers are expecting more thriller and no romance, where this is more a romantic suspense (more romance than suspense).  I will read more of Hoag's books, but as I'm not a thriller reader, I won't be picking up her latest.<br />Happy reading!	2004-03-19
US	38350586	RZ86YKTVELHHD	0312984839	744273408	Dance with the Devil (Dark-Hunter, Book 4)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Kenyon doesn't dissapoint in her newest addition....	Zarek has had more than his fair share of hard knocks in his life, putting it mildly.  Being born to a Roman slave, fathered by Roman royalty, Zarek never belonged, but he always knew his place...as a slave.  Zarek went through things that no human being should have to endure and has a shell of armor around himself so thick that no one will ever be able to penetrate it.  At least that's what he thinks.  After nine hundred years living in the Alaskan wilderness, Zarek sets off to New Orleans only to return to Alaska knowing that he'll either die before he gets there, or die in the biting cold that he's gotten so used to.  At least that's what he thinks...<br />In all her years as a justice nymph, Astrid has never judged a man innocent.  The closest she ever came was when she though she was in love with the man she was jugding, which she learned never to do again.  When Acheron requests that she be the one to judge Zarek, she is stunned.  First by what she sees in his eyes, and second by what she is almost positive the outcome will be.  She doesn't count on Zarek though, nor the feelings he envokes in her.<br />In Kenyon's usual manner, she can bring a reader from tears to laughter in a page of reading.  Although there is humor, it doesn't take away from the emotional intensity of the book.  What Zarek had to endure as a slave brought me to tears, but it showed how strong Zarek is to endure and keep living, even though I wouldn't call what he was doing living.  Astrid and Zarek are perfect for eachother and Kenyon has another hit in Dance With The Devil.  Don't miss it!!	2003-11-18
US	38350586	R13JBG25V6AB0N	0425193047	772336293	After the Fire (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Shay at her best!!	After a devestating fire, Mitch, Jenn, and Zach Malvaso vow to change their lives for the better.  Mitch decides that he either has to make a serious commitment to making his marriage work or call it quits, Jenn decides she wants a baby, and Zach wants his wife back.<br />Megan Hale moved to Hidden Cove to escape the demons chasing after her.  After her husband died in the line of duty and her father only a short time later, Megan knew that she had to leave the big city scene.  She has finally found peace in the little town that is just like family.  Her attraction to Mitch is as unexpected as it is complicated.  Vowing never to be the 'other woman', Megan is adamament about not admitting her feelings for Mitch, and he feels the same way.  This book is overcoming the trials of life and falling in love when you least expect it.<br />Although the story revolves mostly around Mitch and Megan, Shay has subplots with the other siblings that grab the reader and don't let go.  I can't wait until her next book in this series comes out.  I never understood exactly how much a firefighter risked until I read this book.  The things that a firefighter has to know, along with the risks they take for strangers is humbling.  <br />The emotion in this book is so overwhelming at times that I felt like crying.  This is a superbly written book that I would highly recommend!	2003-11-13
US	38350586	R8NY7J2UPBMG5	0345453417	554884676	Cry No More	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Don't miss it	Milla was just twenty three when she was plunged into a nightmare that no mother should have to endure.  Her son of just six weeks was wrenched from her arms while she fought to keep him in her arms, almost losing her life in the process.  Although deeply in love, her marriage was unable to hold together due to the strain.  Milla could not let go of her plight to find her missing son, even though ten years have passed.    At first it was just a few whipsered words of 'Diaz' that caught Milla's attention.  Soon, she was sure that Diaz was the man she was looking for, whose eye she gouged that fateful day, or someone that could help her find him.  Pursued by demons that won't be laid to rest, Milla offers a reward for any information leading her to Diaz.  When she meets him, although terrified, Milla knows he is the only one that could lead her to her son.    Coming together in a explosion of chemistry, Diaz and Milla resume the search for her missing son, while Diaz has another agenda.  This book is engrossing, though it is in a different league than her other novels.  The chemistry, though it was there in Cry No More was not like her other novels.  It is more emotion and mystery based, which does not detract from the story.    Have a box of kleenex handy.  You'll cry your eyes out with this one.	2003-11-10
US	38350586	R33F2NOI4XIZR3	0843950498	219046915	Dark Melody (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 10)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Not dissapointed!!	Dayan has walked through the darkness for centuries, waiting for the one woman that would bring him to the light.  He has wrote thousands of songs, singing to her, trying to beguile her to coming to him.  When he finally finds her, he is shocked by who she is and what she's been through.  In all his years of exsistence, Dayan never considered the possibility that his lifemate would come to him dying and pregnant with another man's child.<br />Corinne Wentworth only has one more mission in her life before she dies.  And that is to give her baby life.  That is all she wants to do, until she meets Dayan.  She has always been a person who embraces life, and she is determined to spend her remaining time left with Dayan.  <br />Although it seemed as if some of the passages were redundant of her other books, I was touched by the story of Dayan and Corinne.  I have waited for this book to come out for a long time, and I wasn't dissapointed.  The courage that Corinne had will touch the reader, and the ordeal that they go through to save her and her baby's life brought tears to my eyes.  I understand why the other reviews are critical of this book, but I don't agree.  Each of Feehan's books have their own unique characters all centered around the same thing...being Carpathian.  I don't think there was any way this book could have been better than it was!	2003-11-02
US	38350586	R14GWC5B80Q6U3	0743245520	976518630	Hello, Darkness (Brown, Sandra)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Another hit by Brown...	Paris Gibson is serving her penance for betraying the man she loved.  Keeping herself away from the outside world and having hardly any contact with it, Paris has convinced herself that she is happy.  Working the midnight shift at a radio station, Paris loves what she does, especially since it is the only human contact she has.  Through her listeners, she feels alive.  That all changes when she receives a phone call from 'Valentino', who blames Paris for the break up of his relationship and swears that she will be sorry.  Paris now has seventy two hours to find out who the mystery girl is before Valentino has sworn to kill her.<br />Dean Malloy moved to Austin for a change in pace.  After agreeing with his ex-wife about their son, Dean is now a single father trying to balance his professional and personal life.  Not having much luck with his son, things aren't much better with the woman who wants to marry him.  She doesn't know the source of his cold feet however, only he does.  When Paris suddenly reenters his life after seven long and lonely years, Dean swears to himself that this time he will convince her that they belong together.  Before he can do that though, he has to find a pyscopath who has fixated on Paris and protect his son from being hurt.<br />Hello, Darkness is Sandra Brown at her best.  A great story of suspense with just enough steamy romance thrown in to hook a romance reader.  The sexual tension between Dean and Paris is HOT!  :)  Don't miss this newest from Brown.  I can't wait till her next one comes out, but I know I'll have a long wait.	2003-10-13
US	38350586	R6NE0HYDRI1S1	0804120021	358555757	Out of Sight (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 5)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Not like the others...	Kane Wright has one objective, to kill a terrorist.  Although against it, Kane follows his orders to take rookie sharpshooter A.J Cooper with him on this assignment.  When she cracks under the pressure, Kane doesn't care how she looks or makes him feel, he's taking her down.<br />A.J Cooper spent her whole childhood relying on her looks.  When she went out into the big bad world, she knew that she didn't want to count on her looks for success.  Joining T-FLAC, she had the highest goal, which goes up in smoke the day that she screws up the op.<br />Although I immensely enjoyed Out of Sight, it didn't hold a candle to the three previous Wright books.  Although high on suspense, it was low on romance, which was a big dissapointment.  Adair endeared her writing to me with her humorous, yet dramatic approach at love which was most noticeably absent in this book.  If you haven't read this series, don't start with this book.  Kiss and Tell is still my favorite :)	2003-09-14
US	38350586	R1P3GK013XQFE1	0061087130	349244617	Master of Desire (MacAllister Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A historical romance worth reading...	Draven de Montague, Earl of Ravenswood had no desire to be guardian to his enemy's daughter.  He can't refuse his king however, and reluctantly heads to the home of a man that he will never turn his back on.  Expecting to find a wilting flower that will cower at the sound of his voice, Draven is beyond surprised to find Lady Emily is the exact opposite of what he expected her to be.  Instead of timid, she is bold, instead of cowering, she stands up to him.  She is unlike any woman that he has ever known, and the one woman that he can never touch, for he has sworn on his honor that she will be returned to her father in the exact state that she was given to his care in.<br />Lady Emily has spent her life sheltered by her father.  After her two older sisters died in childbirth, Emily's father vowed that he would not let any of his remaining daughters marry.  Sequestered in her childhood home, Emily longs for adventure, and love.  For the only way for her to have children is to find a husband.  She finds the perfect man in Draven, she only has to convince him that they could be perfect together.<br />In her normal blend of romance and humor, MacGregor delivers in this heartwarming historical romance that will be hard to put down.  With family feuds, blossoming love, and raging lust, Master of Desire is a book that you will love.	2003-09-03
US	38350586	R30U6GQQRN5052	0821768387	370326632	Every Move She Makes	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A good romantic suspense...	Almost twenty years after he was convicted or murder, Reed Conway has been released and has sworn that he will find the person responsible for murdering his stepfather.  The number one name on his list of suspects is the man that convicted him, Webb Porter.  Esteemed senator and doting father, Webb seems like an unlikely suspect.  The longer that he is out of prison, the more it looks like someone is determined to send him back.  He finds an unexpected ally in Ella Porter, Webb's daughter, whom he feels more for than he ever expected.<br />Ella Porter can't decide if he's guilty or not.  On one hand she is convinced that her father would never go after an innocent man.  On the other hand the more time she spends with Reed, the more she doesn't think that he is capable of murder.  Aside from the almost animal attraction for him, she tells Reed that she will help him prove his innocence.<br />Every Move She Makes is classic Barton.  Although Ella was a little wimpy for me, always thinking 'run, Ella, run', I still enjoyed the plot as well as most of the characters.	2003-09-03
US	38350586	R15GHUY7BE8VA6	0804119783	415821044	Dancing in the Dark	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A good book...	Sara Martin has had her fair share of heartache in life.  As a child, she lost her mother and was put into foster care and as a woman, she lost the only family she'd ever had.  Her husband and her son.  Even though it has been two years, Sara can't bring herself to let go of their memories.  After confiding in her friends that she has been receiving late night calls for the past year, she lets herself be convinced to go to the police.  She doesn't think anything of it...at least not at first.<br />Eric D'Angelo has never seen or met anyone like Sara Martin.  From the moment she walks into the police station, he is drawn to her like a moth to a flame.  Even in the middle of the biggest serial killer case that he has ever seen as a cop, he still can't get Sara out of his head, or his heart.  <br />Soon Eric pieces together that Sara is somehow connected to the man they have dubbed The Sinatra Killer because of the music he leaves behind at each murder.  Eric makes a promise to himself and to Sara that he will go to whatever lengths to keep her safe.  Dancing in the Dark brings back D'Angelo from Midnight Rain, as well as his partner, Tony Haskins.  In her normal style, Davis entertwines romance with suspense in a way that will hold you captivated.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-08-25
US	38350586	RZTZHJJRZ5E2C	1551666472	117263585	Cypress Point	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An emotional rollercoaster...	When her best friend, Mara, had an anerysm (sp?) during the delivery of her son, Joelle D'Angelo was heartbroken.  Not only for the little boy that would grow up without his mother, but for Mara's husband, Liam.  Because she loved Mara like a sister, Joelle did all she could to ease Liam's heartbreak.  She spent time with their son, Sam, and even helped find a home to put Mara in when it looked like she would not be recovering.  There friendship took a drastic turn one night when they slept together.  For Joelle, she was sleeping with the man she loved, while for Liam, all he saw was the betrayal of his wife.<br />Now Joelle is pregnant herself.  Having had a hard time conceiving with her ex-husband, Joelle is estatic, even though she knows that Liam won't show her enthusiasm.  Before she moves away, she wants to do one more thing for Liam and Mara.  The woman tha saved her life when she was born was said to have worked miracles, and Joelle wants that miracle for the man she loves.  Even if the woman he loves isn't her.<br />Chamberlain again delivers in this intensely emotional read.  I was entralled by the story of Lisabeth and Carlynn as well as Joelle and Liam.  It made my heartbreak to see what Liam was putting himself through by trying to remain faithful to a woman that simply didn't exisist anymore.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-08-18
US	38350586	R3O8YKEX9DWJ8J	1551668696	689544283	The Courage Tree	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another hit by Chamberlain...	Janine Donahue couldn't dissapoint her daughter by telling her she couldn't go on the camping trip with her Brownie troop.  After being diagnosed with a rare kidney disease when she was three years old, Sophie is far from a normal eight year old girl.  It wasn't until Janine found out about a new study that was happening that she had hope for her daughter.  Now she has an eight year old who can eat whatever she wants, smiles all the time, and generally gets to behave like an eight year old girl should.  When Sophie doesn't return from the camping trip, her family and herself automatically assume the worst.  Soon, Janine is the only one that has hope that Sophie is out there alive.  Even the man she loves, doesn't seem to believe that Sophie is alive.  It is soon a race against time as Janine fights to save the daughter she loves.<br />I enjoyed The Courage Tree, but didn't like it as much as I thought.  Janine's ex-husband, Joe, was portrayed in a selfish light.  At first I thought that he would be the 'hero' in the story, but soon read that the only reason he wanted Janine back was because he liked to control her.  The way that Janine's parents and Joe ganged up on her was awful, especially since she never stood up to them.  Not even by the end of the book.  Lucas, Janine's lover, was a tragic character who has secrets of his own.  I didn't really like the epilouge either, because I felt that it was unrealistic.	2003-08-18
US	38350586	R37X34T6YSTH1A	1551664844	746193661	Breaking The Silence (Love Inspired)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great author!!	My first book by Chamberlain and I was VERY impressed.  I read this book in about five hours nonstop.  I couldn't put it down!!<br />After her father died, Laura Brandon felt obligated to carry out his last wish...meet an old woman in a nursing home that is in the early stages of alzheimers.  Laura is mystified and has no idea what to expect.  What she didn't expect was her husband's violent reaction to her visiting Sarah Tolley.  Going against her husbands wishes, Laura visits Sarah with no more answers to the truth than before.  When she comes home, she finds her daughter screaming and her husband dead from a self inflicted gun shot wound.  Before the day is over, Laura realizes that her five year old daughter, Emma, has not uttered a single word.<br />After eight months have passed with no progress with Emma, Laura remembers her promise to her father and again visits Sarah Tolley.  She has no idea if she should believe the extrordinary tales of terror that Sarah has to tell her, but she listens anyway.  She also does the one thing that she swore she would never do...she seeks out Emma's birth father with hope that Emma will learn that not all men are angry and yell at little girls.<br />Dylan Geer is stupified when he receives the call from Laura.  Not only does he deny it, but it also spikes his anger.  When Laura tricks him into looking at a picture of Emma, there is no doubt in his mind that the little girl is his.  Now he'll do all he can to help Emma, and help Laura who he is developing deeper feelings for than he expected.<br />Breaking the Silence is a heartbreaking tale in the present and the past.  The way that Laura, Dylan and Emma come together is heartwarming, while the tale of Sarah and Joe Tolley is heartbreaking.  There were many times that tears came to my eyes throughout this book, especially at the end.  If you like a great book, don't miss this one!	2003-08-15
US	38350586	R13I0C7CPOX8XL	1551664844	746193661	Breaking The Silence (Love Inspired)	Books	5	44	47	N	N	A great author!!	My first book by Chamberlain and I was VERY impressed.  I read this book in about five hours nonstop.  I couldn't put it down!!<br />After her father died, Laura Brandon felt obligated to carry out his last wish...meet an old woman in a nursing home that is in the early stages of alzheimers.  Laura is mystified and has no idea what to expect.  What she didn't expect was her husband's violent reaction to her visiting Sarah Tolley.  Going against her husbands wishes, Laura visits Sarah with no more answers to the truth than before.  When she comes home, she finds her daughter screaming and her husband dead from a self inflicted gun shot wound.  Before the day is over, Laura realizes that her five year old daughter, Emma, has not uttered a single word.<br />After eight months have passed with no progress with Emma, Laura remembers her promise to her father and again visits Sarah Tolley.  She has no idea if she should believe the extrordinary tales of terror that Sarah has to tell her, but she listens anyway.  She also does the one thing that she swore she would never do...she seeks out Emma's birth father with hope that Emma will learn that not all men are angry and yell at little girls.<br />Dylan Geer is stupified when he receives the call from Laura.  Not only does he deny it, but it also spikes his anger.  When Laura tricks him into looking at a picture of Emma, there is no doubt in his mind that the little girl is his.  Now he'll do all he can to help Emma, and help Laura who he is developing deeper feelings for than he expected.<br />Breaking the Silence is a heartbreaking tale in the present and the past.  The way that Laura, Dylan and Emma come together is heartwarming, while the tale of Sarah and Joe Tolley is heartbreaking.  There were many times that tears came to my eyes throughout this book, especially at the end.  If you like a great book, don't miss this one!	2003-08-15
US	38350586	R16V1FWX11AVY1	0743453484	492214240	Beachcomber (Robards, Karen)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another hit by Robards...	Christy Petrino never knew how far she was in over her head until she learned that the law firm she worked for was a front for the mob and the man she was engaged to was a key player.  She wanted out, but she soon learned that no one walks away from the mob.  She is told she only has to do one more thing and then her and her family will be free from the mob forever.  <br />Special Agent Luke Rand has been after Michael DePalma for years.  He finally has a chance to get him through Christy, who he believes is in cahoots with who the FBI has nicknamed Donnie Jr.  When Christy is targeted again and again by a violent killer, Luke urges her to confide in him even though she has no idea that he is anyone other than her next door neighbor.  <br />Karen Robards delievers in this book which is full of suspense and romance.  When a serial killer, dubbed the Beachcomber by police, singles out Christy, Luke knows that he will do anything to protect her.  All though Christy has a penchant for screaming and shreiking, her fear jumps out at the reader and somehow isn't too annoying.  Luke and his partner, Gary, are a laugh and a half, while Luke also has surprisingly emotional depths.  I throughly enjoyed this new book by Robards!	2003-08-13
US	38350586	R2O0SEVQOUT2UX	1551668068	807817400	Fox River	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An extrodinary book...	After a fall from her horse, Julia Warwick is diagnosed with hysterical blindness.  An embarrassment to her husband, he has her committed to an institution where he tells her she will get well.  It only takes days for Julia to realize that the last thing that will happen in the clinic is her getting better.  When her mother, Maisy, offers a home to her and her eight year old daughter, Julia accepts.  Back at her childhood home, Julia tries to heal so she can hopefully get her sight back.  When Christian Carver suddenly returns to her life she knows nothing will ever be the same.  For he is the one man she loved with all her heart and the one man she let down.<br />Christian Carver spent nine years in prison for a murder he didn't commit.  When he was released after someone else confessed to the crime, Christian thought he would be able to go on with his life.  He didn't expect to feel doubt about the confession, but he knew that until he knew exactly who murdered Fidelity, he would not have closure in his life.  Then there is Julia whom he has never forgotten and soon learns to forgive.  He just doesn't know if they have a chance for a life together even though he wants nothing more than to be with her and Callie for the rest of their lives.<br />In her normal fashion for writing, Emilie Richards delivers heartwrenching emotion and characters that will stay with you long after the last chapter has ended.  Not only did we have Julia and Christian, but we were also brought Julia's mother, Maisy, who I loved from the first page.  I can never put her books down and I look foward to the next one.	2003-08-12
US	38350586	R32DXTOZ3B2CA4	1551669412	984847551	Hot Shot (STP - Mira)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	1/2* Didn't do it for me...	Frankie Daniels has spent her life trying to live up to the legacy her father left her as a police officer.  She is crusing along just fine until a scandal involving a married man gets her reassigned to Hickville, USA.  As a native of Atlanta, Frankie is unprepared for the low crime rate that Purdyville has.  Soon she realizes that though the crime might be low, it is the people of the town that is important.  Matt Webber has never met anyone like Frankie.  She has a mouth like a sailor and a body to die for, but doesn't seem to realize it.   Soon Matt realizes that he will do anything to prove to Frankie that she belongs in Purdyville, and with him.<br />As a heroine, I enjoyed Frankie immensely.  I didn't think that there was enough from the story from Matt's point of view.  We were left open ended with Matt's parents and I think that Frankie reversed her opinion on relationships too quickly to have it be believeable.  I just didn't feel like it was realistic how soon she decided that she was going to open herself up again.<br />I did enjoy this book, but it was one that I could put down.	2003-08-11
US	38350586	R1ZV0NI1ZMKTRV	1551666944	973660228	Into The Fire (MIRA)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Another hit by Stuart...	Jamie Kincaid idolized her cousin, Nate, since childhood. When he dies in the home of his best friend, her old childhood crush, Dillon Graynor, Jaime is determined to get answers. She has never forgotten the night twelve years ago that she lost her innocence through Dillon. She didn't expect the attraction she felt for him to still be as strong as it was after twelve years where she thought she put everything that had to do with Dillon behind her.<br />Dillon could barely keep himself away from his best friends cousin when she was sixteen. Now she's back as a twenty eight year old woman and he's had twelve years to fantasize about what being with Jaime would be like. While he was the bad boy, she was the honor student. He was a drug dealer while she didn't want anything to do with them. The only thing they have in common is the almost animal attraction they have for each other as well as Nate.<br />Stuart delivers in this novel of romantic suspense. In her usual way, Stuart shows the darker side of relationships. I really couldn't sympathize with Jaime the whole time though. She turned a blind eye to who Nate really was just like her mother did. Always coming in a distant second, Jaime felt that was what she deserved as an adopted child. She also wanted to run way too much, and I can see how it was supposed to come off, to me she came off as a little of a coward. I still enjoyed it though, the storyline and the relationship between Dillon and Jamie was very entertaining.	2003-08-06
US	38350586	R2URPY7BX6943J	0446612804	820561124	Don't Tell	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WOW!	Mary Grace Winters knew that it was time to get away from her abusive husband, if only for the sake of her son, Robbie.  It took her two years to recover from a 'fall' down the stairs enough to make an escape.  Now, seven years later, Caroline Stewart is a single mother working on her way to a law degree.  She is content, if not happy with her life, but she can't quite stop looking over her shoulder.  When she meets her new boss, Dr. Max Hunter, she feels a sexual attraction that shocks her, for she has never felt anything like it before.  <br />Max Hunter is dealing with his own demons.  After a car accident left him paralyzed, his career in the NBA was over.  Even though it had been twelve years, he still hasn't put the horror of that night behind him.  After all those years, Max finally returned home, hoping to put some of those demons to rest.  He didn't expect Caroline, who doesn't look at him like he's less of a man because he walks with a cane.  But he doesn't know everything of her past, and Caroline is afraid of what he'll feel when she finally tells him.<br />Don't tell is an extrodinary romantic suspense.  It was enough romance to keep me enthralled, along with the suspense which kept me on the edge of my seat.  Rob Winters is one of the most evil characters I have ever read about and I got the chills more than a few times.  The way that these characters came off the pages was incredible.  You really felt like you knew them.  I can not wait until her next novel comes out which is supposed to be in Feb of '04 which is too far away!	2003-08-06
US	38350586	R191NN88KBA1YM	0345462270	475675876	Gone Too Far (Troubleshooters, Inc. 6)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	I wasn't dissapointed!	The long awaited story of Sam and Alyssa held me spellbound.  I have read the reviews where a few readers were dissapointed and I can understand why, I just don't agree.  I do agree that the sexual tension that was there in the previous books that S&A were in was absent, but that's all they did in the other books...have sex.  In GTF, Sam and Alyssa actually got to know each other and the reader finally found out what made each person who they are today.  I loved the prologue, as it was so Sam.  I also loved the friendship that developed between Noah and Sam, for it had to have been hard for Sam when his father was such a racist redneck.  <br />Alyssa on the other hand was dealing with her own heartaches.  I felt that Suz packed a lot of information into the book, but it wasn't overdone to me.  Kelly and Tom finally got married in what I felt was a very fitting way.  ML sure made a 180 with her feelings of anyone 'non-white'.  The only thing that endeared her to me was her love for Haley.  And we finally got Max's POV.  I think he will be a very interesting character, for the facade he shows to the world is just that.  <br />Overall, I was very impressed and satisfied with the end of the book.  Sure I would have loved for it to go on and on, but books end right!	2003-08-05
US	38350586	R39D4XUBU0XQBJ	0553576798	808501539	The Other Daughter	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Gardner at her best...	Twenty years have passed since child serial killer, Russell Lee Holmes, was executed.  Someone has finally decided that it is time for the truth to come out about what really happened to four year old Megaen Stokes.  <br />Melanie Stokes believed her life changed for the better on the day when she was nine years old and looked into the eyes of Harper Stokes.  Suddenly, parentless Melanie had a father, mother, and a brother that loved her.  If it seemed like her mother was trying to make her into Megaen's image, Melanie felt like she couldn't complain, for these people gave her a home....P>Special Agent David Riggs doesn't have a glamorous job in the FBI.  As an agent of the fraud division, he investigates white collared crimes, which leads him to the home of Harper Stokes.  After recieiving an anonymous phone call, and some investigating done by David, the FBI believes that Harper is involved in healthcare fraud.  Little does he know that what started out as an investigation into fraud will blow a twenty five year old murder case wide open.<br />Gardner is at her best in The Other Daughter.  As a fan of romantic suspense, I don't tend to lean toward books that are strictly suspense.  Only Lisa Gardner's.  I loved The Perfect Husband as it had just the right amount of romance blended in with the suspense.  As did The Other Daughter.  I wasn't shocked by the 'major' revelation of the book, but they way it was revealed was shocking as were the events leading up to it.  I definetly would not miss out on this one!	2003-08-05
US	38350586	R15Q26ODC0L9AF	0758204531	86146164	Standing in the Shadows (The McCloud Brothers, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	McKenna does it again...	Following up from Behind Closed Doors, the reader is again introduced to Connor McCloud, the quiet and brooding man that we were curious about in BCD.<br />Connor has spent the last year in a slump, which is putting it nicely.  After the murder of his partner, Jesse, and then the downfall of his boss, Connor has lost faith in just about anything.  And he's lost the girl.  He has loved Erin Riggs since she was seventeen and he was twenty six, but he knew she was way too young.  She is also his bosses daughter and considered off limits.  While he has many fantasies with her involved, he just waits for the day that he can make them reality.  Then he is part of the team that puts her father behind bars for murder, among other things.  Suddenly Erin is looking at him with betrayal in her eyes, and Connor makes a strategic retreat.<br />Erin Riggs' life is falling apart around her ears.  The only good thing is the work she is doing for Claude Mueller who is a collector of celtic artifacts.  When Connor McCloud suddenly shows up at her door and tells her Kurt Novak has broken out of prison, Erin is skeptical about Connor's claims that he will come after her.  <br />Standing in the Shadows is exactly what I have come to expect from Shannon McKenna.  I waited for this book since last year when BCD came out and I was not dissapointed.  With the steamy sexuality and dark eroticsm, you will be hooked by this book from the first page.  We finally get a conclusion of Novak who is one creepy guy.  I'm also wondering if McKenna will bring back Mara as a heroine.  Who knows!<br />Don't miss it!!	2003-07-31
US	38350586	R3ZP9DCM98D1U	0425191206	232620421	While She Was Sleeping	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not a typical Forster...	Jennifer Nash is renowned for her uncoventional way of tapping into a witnesses subconcious and producing an eerily accurate sketch of the suspect.  When she is called to Seattle to interview a witness that has been the police departments only lead, she is hesitant, but goes anyway, as the latest victim was a good friend of hers.  The reason for her reluctance is all too apparent when she arrives.  Russ Sadler, who is the lead detective on the case is also her ex-fiance.  Though she knows he has no reason to forgive her, she can't help but hope that he will.  Soon she is in the middle of a case that leaves her as the target of a psycopath and has her doubting the man that she loves.<br />Russ Sadler always had a hard time opening up and showing his emotions to anyone, but with Jennifer it just happened.  When she left him with no explanations, he closed himself off.  Now she is back and he can't help but feel the pull to her that he felt for their brief time together.  However he has a case to solve where his ex-partner was murdered and a witness that seems to be a little crazy.  <br />This is a pretty straightfoward romantic suspense, which I haven't come to expect from Forster.  She always has a plotline that is really out there, but a great read anyway, which this was not.  Jennifer's 'problem' with intamicy is anti-climatic because it is not anything that you would expect.  I really enjoyed this book, but didn't expect something so tame.<br />A great book!	2003-07-30
US	38350586	R5XXH39QAR4WJ	082177512X	552953250	Say No to Joe? (Visitation, Book 1)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Joe's story was worth the wait...	Joe Winston has always been a magnet to women.  Never having any problem getting who he wants, he is stupefied when he can't have the one woman that he does want.  He met Luna Clark when he did a favor for his cousin, Zane.  The only problem is that Luna now wants nothing to do with him.  It wasn't his fault he couldn't help but grab her the day he met her.  Was it?  Now Luna has come to Joe for help and he's determined to play that to his advantage.  Soon he realizes that he wants Luna for more than a fling, but the problem will be convincing her that he's worth the risk.<br />Luna Clark knows exactly what kind of man Joe Winston is.  A love 'em and leave 'em type of guy.  She has no intention of getting caught up in an affair where she'll get her heartbroken.  The problem is that she needs his help.  She has two orphaned cousins that need her and she needs Joe to convince the town to leave the innocent kids alone.  Little did she know that when they all got under one roof, she would want more, for it feels suspiciously like they're playing house, and all enjoying it.<br />The chemistry between Luna and Joe is awesome, some of Lori's best, in my opinion.  I also liked it because it was longer than her usual books, so there was more for me!<br />Don't miss it!	2003-07-29
US	38350586	R3IJMDDN2BS1AC	1551668947	581439579	White Mountain	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A page turner...	Isabella Abott never questioned the love and trust she felt for her father and six elderly 'uncles' who were fixtures in her life while she was growing up.  When her father dies suddenly she is devestated.  Being dealt another blow on top of that, she learns that one of her 'uncles' was murdered while he was on vacation in Brighton Beach, where the population is made of of mostly Russian immigrants.  When 'writer' Jack Dolan shows up to do research for a book, Isabella is swept away by the feelings she has for the stranger.  When her life starts unraveling more than she thought possible, Isabella turns to Jack, instead of one of the uncles.<br />FBI Agent Jack Dolan came to White Mountain to find answers to why a Russian scientist faked his death more than twenty years ago only to end up on White Mountain as a seemingly respectable doctor.  The more questions that Jack gets answered, the more he seems to have as the mystery gets bigger and bigger.<br />I read the review where it was only given one star and I honestly had no idea what the mystery was early on in the book.  The feelings between Jack and Isabella were not superficial as the writer stated, but unexpected and powerful.  This is one of the better McCall books that I've read.	2003-07-25
US	38350586	R3JW3QW6VGHATQ	0553802526	941388331	The Killing Hour	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great suspense that will hook you...	Returning to the world of the Quincy's, we are reunited with Kimberley Quincy six years after her mother and sister were murdered by a pyscopath.  Getting closer and closer to her lifelong dream of being an agent of the FBI, Kimberley is content, if not happy with the way her life is going.  That all changes one day when she is jogging on the PT course and finds the body of a girl that has a startling resemblance to her dead sister, Mandy.  Suddenly she is willing to throw it all away to find the killer who left a girl for dead with her mouth sewn shut.  <br />GBI Agent Mac McCormick has been on the trail of the killer dubbed the 'Eco-Killer' for five years.  When he suddenly strikes states away from his normal hunting ground, Mac knows that the stakes have been raised.  It is a race against time as Mac and Kimberley scramble to find the two victims that are still alive somewhere, dumped in an almost impossible enviornment to survive, especially during the heat wave.<br />Gardner does it again with The Killing Hour, bringing edge of your seat suspense that will hook the reader.  We all felt for Kimberley during The Next Accident when her whole family was killed and she felt she was responsible.  Finally, in The Killing Hour, she vanquishes old ghosts, while reconciling with her father.  We also get to read about Quincy and Rainie whose story will bring a smile to your face.  I am more a romance reader with a some suspense, but I will always read a Gardner.	2003-07-25
US	38350586	R27KZNWNKAMQTB	1551668130	583830013	The Widow	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Typical Stuart...	Charlie Thomas has returned to Italy after five years to settle the estate of her dead husband.  As a famous painter, her husband preyed upon young girls, herself included, because he believed they gave him inspiration to paint.  Charlie was the only woman that has ever escaped him and had made her own life for herself in New York.  Returning to Italy brought to life ghosts that she had thought she laid to rest.  Then there is the presence of Connor Maguire, who makes her feels things she didn't think she was capable of feeling.<br />Connor Maguire is after a story of the most one of the most famous painters of the century.  He had heard stories of his frigid widow, and had always believed the stories.  Until he met Charlie Thomas.  For Maguire knew that there was a sensual woman underneath the icy exterior and he was determined to uncover it.<br />There is evil lurking at the villa, however, evil that may destory the fragile feelings that Charlie and Maguire feel for each other before they even blossom.  <br />A good romantic suspense.	2003-07-25
US	38350586	R25W6T00Z72HU9	0671042513	244943533	The Last Chance Cafe : A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A surprisingly emotional read...	Hallie O'Roarke found sanctuary in Primrose Creek after being forced to flee Phoenix in fear for the lives of herself and her twin seven year old daughters.  When her stepfather is murdered in his home in what appeared to be an attempted robbery, Hallie is skeptical.  Not only was Lou a vetran police officer, but to Hallie, it just didn't seem like something that would happen to him.  When she finds evidence that he was murdered due to an investigation he was in the middle of, Hallie knew that she would have to leave town.  <br />Chance Qualtrough felt an electrical charge when he first laid eyes on Hallie O'Roarke.  He wants to shake her and hold her at the same time, but he knows the only thing that he can do to earn her trust is keep her daughters safe.  Soon, Chance can't imagine letting her or the twins go.<br />The Last Chance Cafe is a very emotional read about a woman that is on the run and doing everything she can to keep her daughters safe.  Not knowing how she's going to keep going on with no money or job, Primrose Creek is a haven that she doesn't want to leave.  However, she knows that good things don't last forever and soon her past will catch up with her.  The only thing she knows, aside from her fierce desire to keep her daughters safe, Hallie doesn't want to leave Chance and the new love that she has found.	2003-07-24
US	38350586	R3F8PQQVPHAINW	0373691343	200958793	Sean  (American Heros)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun read...	Sean Gannon has decided to take the promtion which will transfer him back to his hometown of Alexandria, LA.  With one last trip to St. Thomas, Sean is ready to finally settle down close to his family.  One last fling can't hurt, and he finds his prey pushing her scooter down the streets of St. Thomas.  Soon he realizes that he has no desire to let Laurel go, but he learns that he doesn't have a choice.<br />As a judge, Laurel doesn't have time for vacation.  Following in the footsteps of her father, Laurel is fast coming up in the world of law in Alexandria.  It doesn't matter that she would have rather followed in her mothers footsteps of being a wife and mother, Laurel knows that she would never do anything to dissapoint her father.  When she meets Sean Gannon, she is poleaxed, but soon has to flee home and try to save her father's career.<br />This is a much better story than it's proceeding book about Sean's brother.  A lot more emotion and romance is involved and it of course leaves you wondering about the other Gannon siblings.	2003-07-24
US	38350586	RJD19QN0WGM0T	1551667096	93400278	The Parting Glass	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Deserves SIX stars!	In this incredible follow up to Whiskey Island, Emilie Richards pulls the reader in from the first page.<br />Beginning in Whiskey Island, Megan and Niccolo are about to be wed, while Peggy is planning on taking her autistic two year old son, Kieran, to Ireland to act as a companion to elderly relative Irene Tierney.  <br />Peggy soon arrives in Ireland to find that while she had high hopes for finding a magic 'cure' for Kieran's autism, she has to fight her discouragement as the work she tries to do with him has little results.  While honestly believing that all Kieran needs is her full attention, Peggy soon comes to realize that her son will never be like a normal boy his age and all she can hope for is his happiness.  Soon she meets Finn O'Malley who facsinates her, yet makes her ache.  Dealing with his own tragedy, Finn has given up his love for medicine and only takes care of his eleven year old daughter in the most fundamental way.  <br />Back in Whiskey Island, Megan and Nick are learning that it takes more to make a marriage work than love.  Trying to repair the saloon that was destroyed in a tornado during their wedding reception, Nick is constantly busy with the rentovations or trying to find funding for Brick.  Megan on the other hand has too much time on her hand and soon realizes that her and Nick aren't on the same page.  With her marriage in shambles so soon after the ceremony, Megan flees to Ireland and falls in love with Irene as quickly as Peggy did.  She soon realizes that she left her heart with Nick.<br />The Parting Glass was an intensely emotional book about family.  Richards also takes the reader back to the 1920's where we learn about Liam Tierney and Glen Donaghue.  This book at times brought tears to my eyes and laughter into my heart.  I couldn't put it down and read it in a day.  Don't miss this book!	2003-07-24
US	38350586	RA9CPU7WQMUI7	0373765193	12864917	Scenes of Passion (Silhouette Desire #1519)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A fast paced romance...	Maggie Stanton has done everything her family wanted of her.  She is a lawyer instead of an actress on Broadway, she is pre-engaged to a man she wouldn't look twice at, and she still lives at home at the age of thirty.  When her childhood friend, Matthew Stone, suddenly reappears in her life asking for her help, Maggie can't refuse.  She is finally living only for herself and she has never been happier.  She is also falling in love which is the last thing she ever expected to happen.  Especially with her best friends ex-boyfriend.<br />Matthew Stone has waited ten years to tell Maggie that he has been in love with her since they were teenagers.  Once the bad boy, Matt soon faced his own immortality and reformed his bad boy ways.  Now he has three months to prove that he can keep his fathers company afloat and make it profitable again, and he wants Maggie's help.  He also wants to prove to her that they are perfect for eachother.<br />In Scenes of Passion, Brockmann is at her best with romance.  Not in the same League as her SEAL series, it nevertheless captures the readers heart and holds them spellbound.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-07-24
US	38350586	R3HWJMES602BZL	1551669501	237128391	Diamond Spur	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Not Palmer's best...	Kate Whitman is the only person living in San Frio that isn't afraid of rancher, Jason Donovan's, temper.  Since she was eighteen and looked Jason in the eye during one of his many rages, she earned more than his respect, she earned his friendship which is something that not many people have.  It wasn't until about a year later that Kate realized that she felt more for Jason than just friendship.  The only problem was that Jason wasn't looking for marriage.  Being deserted by his mother when he was a child, he didn't trust anyone and his first and last try at getting married ended badly.  Kate knew that all she had to do was get Jason to trust her and then everything else would fall in to place.<br />Jason had only noticed lately how attractive Kate was under the exterior.  Being raised by a father who taught him that a woman's place was in the home, the only thing Jason couldn't accept about Kate was her career as a clothes designer.  He knew that he wanted a woman that put him first and wanted a family too.<br />Diamond Spur was not one of Diana Palmer's best books.  With his cavemen way of thinking, all I wanted to do was slap Jason right out of the book.  It was basically four hundred pages of run arounds and misunderstandings with no plot whatsoever.  I was very dissapointed, but I can see how this book would be popular in the late eighties.	2003-07-12
US	38350586	RGSS8GMWX4X6A	0505524724	402574196	Sacrament (Candleglow)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not my cup of tea....	I picked up this book eagerly, but had to force myself to finish it.  I won't get into the plot because I still can't really tell what the plot was supposed to be.  I don't understand how Sarah and Julien fell in love when they barely spent any time together.  That was confused me about the whole book.  The end was good though, as were some parts throughout.  If this is your first step into the vampire genere, I wouldn't read this one!	2003-07-09
US	38350586	RF0ZSG03VT5HB	0804119805	396185159	The Prince of Pleasure (Notorious)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	OH BABY!	The long awaited novel of the Prince of Pleasure is not a dissapointment!<br />The Marquess of Wolverton, Dare North, thought he put the long ago summer when he got his heart broken behind him.  Little does he know that as soon as he lays eyes on Julienne Laurent for the first time in seven years.  For the girl that betrayed him with another man has turned into a beautiful woman, one who he knows he must have.  Julienne has spent the last seven years in heartfelt regret for what she had to do to Dare.  Even he doesn't know the lengths that she went to protect him.  All that she had to hold on to was the thought that his life was better off with a title and wealth than being a pauper with a wife he would soon start blaimng.<br />Soon Dare and Julienne are in the middle of a fight to uncover a tratior who is trying to kill a prominent figure in the foreign office.  Dare soon realizes that his suspicions of Jewel being in league with Caliban is completely unfounded and the fact that she is French can be used to their advantage.<br />The story of Julienne and Dare is long awaited and will not dissapoint readers.  With it's eroticsm as well as danger, this romance will keep you hooked from page one.	2003-07-09
US	38350586	R3L1JDAM3X4ML6	1551667053	705129320	A Twist Of Fate: A Novel of Romantic Suspense	Books	3	11	12	N	N	An early era Jackson novel...	Erin O'Toole brought herself through the pain and humiliation that her ex-husband put her through by having an affair with a collegue.  When the bank she works for is bought out, Erin isn't prepared for the feelings that her new boss envokes in her.  But she can tell something is off, for though he looks at her with desire, he also looks at her with caution.<br />Kane Webster bought the bank on the coast of Washington because he thought a change of scenery would help his daughter heal.  After an accident that left her mother dead and Krista paralyzed, Kane knows that he has a chance left with his daughter and means to make the most of it.  When he finds out that someone is embezzling funds from the bank, he knows that there has to be an accomplice.  The choice is obvious, but Kane never counted on his attraction to Erin.<br />As one of Jackon's earlier works, this book lacks the emotion that her newer romances have as well as the suspense.  As I knew it was a reprint, I didn't go in with high expectations, which is a good thing.  This book is a fast read, but if you want more emotion and get really tangled up in one of her books, I'd try Intimacies or The Night Before.<br />Happy reading!	2003-07-09
US	38350586	RQ6U1BDU3N25K	0743456335	753332767	A Man to Call My Own : A Novel (Lindsey, Johanna)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	1/2* A bit dissapointed...	I was looking foward to this book after reading the flap, hoping it was have more in common with her earlier works.  I was a bit dissapointed in this book and read it in less than four hours.<br />While I really felt for Marion, I didn't understand why she felt that she had to hide herself so much.  She then felt attracted to Chad, but was going to give him up to save him from her sister's clutches.  She isn't a matryr (?), but she acted like all Amanda's actions were her responsibility.  Then I have to say I was shocked by how sudden Marion and Chad became lovers.  One minute he doesn't like her, the next he's dragging her down in the hay.<br />I felt that Lindsey spent too much time describing Amanda's faults, so by the end of the book when she tried to portray Amanda in a different light, I could really have cared less.  I felt that she got what she deserved.  There just wasn't the emotion that I normally find in Lindsey's books.  If this is your first book by Lindsey, don't be dissapointed, because there are much better ones out there!	2003-07-09
US	38350586	R3FBVJ0A239GLJ	0821763776	356925807	Whispers	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A complex tale of lies and betrayal....	Claire Holland has come home to Oregan after her marriage crumbles.  After a summons from her father, Claire returns to find out that the truth about one night sixteen long years ago is finally going to come out.  Not only that, but Claire has her own truth to deal with, including the boy whom she finally realized she loved, Kane Moran.  After one passion filled night, Kane left town to join the army and Claire never saw him again.<br />Miranda Holland has her own secrets to keep, ones that she will guard religously.  Only two people beside herself know what happened on the night Harley Taggert was killed.  After getting pregnant by the boy she loved, Miranda thought she had it all.  Although she knew she would have to put her career on hold, it was worth it to have the man she loved and a the baby that they made together.  Now all the lies are about to come out and Miranda can only wait for the fall out.<br />Tessa Holland has been fighting her own demons for all the years that Miranda lied for her.  Never being the strong one like Miranda, nor the smart one like Claire, Tessa knew she came up short.  Messing up her life at an early age cost her much, but she knew that when all the truth came out, she would be the one at fault.<br />Kane Moran fell for Claire fast.  It was a classic case of the princess and the peasant, but he only now realizes that she felt more than pity for him.  Never having much, Kane knew that one day he would amount to something, and when he did, Dutch Holland, father to the three Holland girls, would pay for messing up his life.  And it starts with writing the book of the Holland family, to stop Dutch from becoming govenor.  Kane soon realizes that his love for Claire means more to him than any fame or revenge and all he can do is protect her and her family as best as he can.<br />Whispers is a very complex tale of so many lies that I don't know how the reader can keep track of them!  These four characters will tug on your heartstrings andthe other characters involved will make you sick.  In her classic tale of romance and suspense, Lisa Jackson doesn't dissapoint!	2003-07-07
US	38350586	R1H780NGEBXL18	0821770543	109325991	Intimacies	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A book you'll regret missing...	Cassidy Buchanan was always in the shadows compared to her older half sister, Angie.  Though it bothered her mother, it never bothered Cassidy, who was content to stay out of the light that Angie thrived under.  All Cassidy cared about were her horses and her freedom.  At sixteen, she was gawky and gangly, still coming into her woman's body.  All her feelings changed that summer when Brig McKenzie started work on her father's ranch.  At nineteen, Brig was everything in a boy that fascinated Cassidy.  He was a rebel of the highest order, never caring what anyone thought.  Soon she realizes that her and her sister wanted the same boy, but for different reasons.  <br />Brig McKenzie only wanted to do his job.  He was warned on his first day on the job to stay away from the Buchanan girls.  Though no one knew it, it was Cassidy that fascinated him and Cassidy he dreamed about at night.  He knew that the older one had her own agenda, and he didn't trust her at all.  He knew Cassidy was trouble because she was so young, but he couldn't stay away from her.  Then a devestating fire swept through the sawmill that was owned by the Buchanans that Brig knew he'd be blamed for.  With help from the person he least expected, Brig left and never expected to be back.<br />Now seventeen years later another fire brings the same questions that haunted everyone all those years before.  Who was responsible?  Cassidy now has a husband who seems to hate her and a man that no one can identify on the verge of death.  The questions haunt her.  Why was her husband and this stranger at the mill?  And who started the fire.  Jackson doesn't dissapoint readers with this complex tale of betrayal and love.  Jackson always brings more characters than the main ones, some who we love, some who we hate.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-07-07
US	38350586	R1QR82WSDC8G7O	0758203594	207643662	Wilde Thing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	You will be singed...	Liz Adams has always felt a responsibility to her younger cousin, Valerie.  When her parents died when she was twelve, Liz went to live with her aunt and uncle, taking some of the attention away from Valerie who always resented Liz for it.  When Valerie dissapears with only a cryptic note left for Liz, she assumes the worst.  Especially since Valerie was working at The Ultimate Fantasy, a phone sex company who also caterted to other needs of their most frequent customers.  The only person that can help her is Steve Wilde, the wildly sexy bad boy that often frequents her cafe, The Daily Grind.  <br />Steve Wilde wanted Liz in his bed.  For a month he had been going to her coffee shop watching her, but he had no idea how quickly his fantasies would be coming true.  Always having a problem finding women that could keep up with him in bed, Steve is in heaven when he realizes Liz will more than keep up, she almost leaves him in the dust.  Together they try to unravel the mystery of her cousin, while Steve falls for her more and more.  Suddenly his number one rule of no commitment is one he has to break.<br />Janelle Denison's second installment of the Wilde brothers is so hot that you'll need a fan on hand to cool you down.  This book is not for the lighthearted, but you'll definetly love the characters, if not the plot.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-07-07
US	38350586	R2IRJFHR0B2BT0	1551667088	157131107	Lawless	Books	3	8	11	N	N	1/2* Not my kind of book...	My last book was Desperado when it came out in hardcover.  I really got into Palmer's Long Tall Texan series several years ago before I started reading more romantic suspense.  This book was much like her previous books.<br />Christbel and Judd married five years before to save their ranch, which they had joint ownership.  Crissy only being sixteen at the time knew that their marriage would come to an end on her twenty first birthday.  <br />It was the classic Palmer book of the virgin who fell in love with a man fourteen years older that didn't want to be tied down because of events that happened in his past.  I read it in four hours, skimming some parts.  If you like a really easy read that won't cause you to think, this is it for you.  If you like more emotion and not a lot of running around, this isn't the book for you.	2003-07-04
US	38350586	R26AGQCL7YZR3L	0821760386	770966111	Twice Kissed	Books	5	24	29	N	N	A compelling read...	Maggie McCrae retreated to Idaho with her thirteen year old daughter after the death of her husband.  With the guilt she felt over his death, Maggie was barely coping, and she also had her daughter, Becca's hostility to deal with.  When she gets one of the rare 'messages' from her twin Mary Theresa nee Marquise, she knows something is wrong.  For only at times when Mary Theresa is in the most distress is she able to talk to Maggie through her mind.  The only thing that sticks is that she blames her ex-husband, and Maggie's one time love.<br />Thane Walker has his own agenda, and he doesn't care what he has to do to accomplish it.  When his vindictive ex-wife dissapears after dropping a bombshell on him, he knows that it's probably nothing more than a stunt for publicity.  When the police suspect him of being responsible for her dissaperance, he decides to go to Maggie, the only woman he's ever loved.<br />Twice Kissed is a very emotional tale which started almost twenty years earlier.  With jealousy and betrayal the key, Thane and Maggie race to find out what happened to Marquise while both dealing with trust issues.  I really enjoy all of Jackson's books as she puts so much emotion into them, you can't help but be sucked right in.	2003-07-04
US	38350586	R3VA7RM5BGYGJK	1551668084	63200195	Storm Warning	Books	4	4	5	N	N	It'll keep you guessing...	Ginny Shapiro gets the shock of her life when she realizes that six out of the seven girls that were in the gifted class at age six are dead of suicide after receiving mysterious phone calls.  Most of the women were happy, most especially her close friend Georgia who embraced God and became Sister Mary Theresa.  When she finds out how Georgia died, and receives a package from her after she died, Ginny knew that she couldn't stay put.  On the run from an unknown assaliant, Ginny has no one, until Sullivan Dean comes to her rescue.<br />Agent Sully Dean is dealing with his own guilt.  Knowing Georgia since she was in pigtails, he was more than happy for her when she made her decision to become a nun.  When he got her package too late to help, he knew that the one thing that he could do to honor her memory was to protect her friend, Ginny.  What he doesn't expect is the complexity of the case, nor his feelings for Ginny.<br />Storm Warning has a very interesting story line, but the romance between the two seemed to fall flat.  There was a little too much drama involved with an incident that happened half way through the book, which I think the book could have done with out.  It was after days that they fell in love, but they just didn't seem to click as most authors make their characters click.  I enjoyed the suspense and the ending was very surprising and a lot disturbing.	2003-07-04
US	38350586	R1XO28MA0LAVLP	0451408071	84539066	Flame	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A very good historical...	Not an avid historical reader, I have to read everything of May McGoldricks that I can get my hands on.  In this different book of historical romance, McGoldrick brings the reader to the cursed Ironcross Castle, in the Highlands of Scotland.<br />Given the keep by the order of the King, the only reason Gavin Kerr was even going was to retrieve a portrait of the grandaughter of an old woman who died in a fatal fire in the south wing.  Upon his first glance at the portrait, Gavin in bewitched by the face of a woman long dead.  When the portrait is taken from his chamber night after night and put back in it's original place, a room with no floors, Gavin is determined to catch the thief.  Little does he know exactly who he will catch.<br />Joanna McInnes has been thought long dead.  No one knows her plans for revenge on the ones she is sure are responsible for the death of her family.  When the new laird of the castle arrives, Joanna wants to warn him of the curse, but since she's supposed to be dead, decides to protect him as best she can.  What she doesn't expect is her instant and undeniable attraction to the handsome Lowlander, nor his for her.<br />The suspense and romance in this book will make it very hard to put down.  I read it in one day, and like I said before, I don't usually enjoy many historicals.  Everything combined in this book make it one well worth reading!	2003-07-02
US	38350586	R3A61A6NASWH4D	0425191028	237279528	The Shadow Side (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A terrific romantic suspense....	Dr. Elizabeth Barnes has spent her whole life trying to find a way to help people battle depression.  A tragedy in her own past has driven her to do all she can to help the people that are plagued by depression.  After spending ten years researching and developing a new drug, Valazine is finally out on the market, and studies show her it's thriving.  Which is why she is so shocked when burnt out cop, Adam Bodecker forces himself into her office and tells her that her drug is responsible for turning people taking Valazine into violent monsters.<br />Det. Adam Bodecker thought he lost it all on the night that he was shot.  He had no idea what lost was until the day he learned that his brother murdered his pregnant wife and then turned the gun on himself.  Not believing for a second that Michael could do that, Adam digs deeper, and what he finds, infuriates and well as shocks him.  All he wants are answers, and the one person who could give them to him is the woman who is partly responsible for the drug being on the market at all.<br />The Shadow Side shows Castillo's  extrodinary writing skills once again as these two people race to uncover the truth before any more lives are taken.  You have danger, suspense, romance and sex, along with a plot that will keep you spellbound in all his horrifying glory.	2003-07-02
US	38350586	R1C3RISXCMOBS1	0312984820	322000736	Night Embrace (Dark-Hunter, Book 3)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A GREAT sequel...	Dark-Hunter, Talon of the Morrigantes is brought to the pages in this book that you will not put down until you read the last page.  Having renounced his soul for vengance on his Celtic clan, Talon knows that nothing will ever touch his feelings again.  Taught by the oldest Dark-Hunter alive, his feelings are buried so deep, Talon doubts that they'll ever resurface.  With Mardi Gras coming to New Orleans, the patrols are tripled and suddenly Talon is faced with a woman who's face and body he can't forget.<br />Sunshine Runningwolf has only ever lived for her art.  When she meets the dark stranger he saved her life...only to get run over by a Mardi Gras float.  Feeling it is her civic duty, Sunshine takes the hunk home, where she is drawn into a world that she never even guess exsisted.<br />I don't want to give away too much, but this book was truly awesome.  Not only did we get Talon and Sunshine's story, we understood exactly what happend to Talon and how Sunshine factors into it all.  She introduced the reader to a new Dark-Hunter, who I was immediately drawn to, Zarek.  Acheron is also back, more than ever, and I honestly cried for him by the end of the book.  These books can not come out fast enough for me and I can't wait until the next one!	2003-07-02
US	38350586	R12FUQ38W6GSY7	0425189058	493487073	Lover Beware	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Four great stories in one great book...	Magic in the Wind (Christine Feehan)...Damon Wilder had always been a recluse.  Never forming lasting attachments, all Damon lived for was his work.  That all changed when his partner died and he was tortured for answers on the project he was working on for the government.  Drawn to a sleepy town on the coast, Damon was enjoying his retirement as much as he was able.  Then he started hearing the whispers. 'Sarah's home' seemed to call to him and he was irrestibely drawn to the house that was on the cliff above his.  Sarah Drake was the first of seven daughters.  Descended from a legacy of magic, Sarah put her special skills to use protecting innocent people.  She was happy to take the job that would take her back to her home, but she was unprepared for the feelings that Damon Wilder unleashed in her.  Magic in the Wind is a great story by Christine Feehan that has me looking foward to the six remaining stories.<br />Hot August Moon (Katherine Sutcliffe)...Anna Travelli was a special profiler of the FBI.  Moved into the depths of the Behavioral Science Unit of the FBI, no one understood why Anna had to be at the scene of the crime to profile the killer.  Anna knew though, she knew that she would see through the eyes of the killer and sometimes even the victim.  Her current case brings her back to New Orleans and the lover and love of her life that she left behind.  Jerry Costos never forgot Anna, not even in the years they spent apart.  Now they are working together to solve the murder of the family of a good friend of them both.  In the midst of it all, Anna knows that it could never work out.  This is a prequel to Bad Moon Rising, which I already read and loved.  If you haven't read Bad Moon Rising, you will not like how this book ends and you will be very dissapointed.  <br />After Midnight (Fiona Brand)...Jane O'Reilly went from city girl to country wife when she married her husband, Patrick.  When Patrick died of cancer, leaving Jane behind, she was determined to go on and keep the farm running.  She hadn't seen her volitale neighbor, Michael Rider, in nearly seven years since the day his startling confession ruined any chance she would have at happiness with her husband.  After standing by Patrick, Jane is now determined to find out if what she felt for Michael all those years ago was real.  The day that Michael met Jane, it ruined his marriage and almost his life.  Determined to give her time, he left for seven years.  Now he's back, and adament on claiming her.  But there is evil lurking in the shadows, and all Michael and Jane have are each other.  I really enjoyed this book.  It was short and sweet and held everything you would be looking for in a romance.<br />Only Human (Eileen Wilks)...Lily Wu was promoted to a detective in the homicide division of the San Diego Police Department because of her determination to find justice.  When horrible murders start taking place, she is forced to work with Rule Turner, who may be the only one who could help find the murderer.  Descended from a species that was not quite human, Rule's clan didn't believe in fidelity or faithfulness.  Lily didn't think that would be a problem early on, afterall he was only a means to an end.  Rule knew exactly who Lily was, all he had to do was get her to see it.  Together they embark on a journey of discovery, from finding a murderer as well as a traitor, to discovering what it is like to find your soulmate.  A definetly different book, I nevertheless really enjoyed it.<br />DON'T MISS IT!	2003-07-02
US	38350586	R1MGAQAMVEADFY	0553583522	603428756	Lady Liberty	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A MUST read...	Vice President Sybil Stone, code name Lady Liberty, holds the fate of millions in her hands.  She has seventy two hours to return the briefcase handcuffed to her wrist to the United States.  Then, on her way back from Geneva, the unthinkable happens, her plane is blown up and she is pushed out of the plane by one very pushy Secret Service Agent.  Transpiring through the jungles of Flordia, her only hope is Agent Jonathon Westford, for he is the only one that can get her back to Washington alive.  <br />Jonathon Westford is more than just a body guard to Lady Liberty.  He is the man that loves her.  He loves Lady Liberty as well as Sybil Stone, but he soon comes to realize that they are one and the same.  When she tells him what will happen if they don't get back, he feels despair, for he is sure they will never make it.<br />Hinze delivers in this novel of political intrigue as well as romance.  This book brought tears to my eyes at times and chills at others.  It kept me at the edge of my seat almost throughout the whole book.  Hinze has depicted a great heroine that all woman would transpire to be like, for no one loves her country more than Lady Liberty.  All the characters involved in this book are effected by Liberty and it just shows you how much she values all life.<br />I definetly wouldn't miss it!	2003-06-24
US	38350586	R2TPT24TLG4PAL	0373613687	795676162	Enemy Mind (Silhouette, Family Secrets)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A good start to the series...	Dr. Maisy Dalton stopped treating patients one on one the day her husband confessed to having an affair with a patient.  When he died, Maisy retreated into the world of research, publishing books that she hoped would help people since that was the only way she could do it now.  When she receives a call from a seemingly distraught woman claiming her son needs Maisy's help, she finds that she can still be drawn to the hands on work that she so loved.  <br />Zach Ingram tried to tell them that his name wasn't Jake, but they didn't believe him.  Soon he realized that if they believed him, they would no longer have use for him.  Asking him questions that he has no answers, and keeping him drugged, Zach is more than ready for the angel that arrives to help him.  At first he thought she was one of them, but he soon realizes that she has been decieved too.<br />Together, Maisy and Zach come together in an isolated ranch house that holds many secrets.  Maisy breaks her number one rule, getting involved with a patient.  For there is something about Zach that touches her in places that she has never been touched, even by her husband.  Zach only knows that he has to get them out alive.  He may only be a professor at a college, but he can be a hero too!	2003-06-24
US	38350586	R16A22IQ9KZZ8Y	0451207971	923508984	Borrowed Dreams	Books	5	42	46	N	N	An extrodinary historical romance...	Five years ago, after her husband was killed, Millicent Wentworth went about trying to right all the wrongs her husband commited.  Millicent knew from experience exactly what the slaves had to endure at the hands of her brutal husband.  Given into marriage by her uncle who only wanted to get rid of her, Millicent was more than relieved to become a widow.  Then her husband's creditor, Jasper Hyde, started calling in her debts.  When the dowager countess of Aytuon requests that she marry her son in return for all her debts to be paid, Millicent's refuses, for she knows she can never endure being a man's possession again.  When the dowager talks her into it, Millicent has no idea how much her husband will come to mean to her, or how wrong for him she is.<br />Lyon Pennington, Earl of Aytuon didn't care one way or another if he was married.  Crippled on the night that his wife fell off a cliff, Lyon took refuge in the medicine that the doctors insisted he take.  When taken to Melbury Hall, he soon is brought out of his drug induced stupor by the woman he doesn't recall, but knew he married.  <br />I would give this book six stars if I could.  Millicent is one of my favorite historical heroines.  With her courage and compassion, Millicent saved many lives, include Lyon's.  Even after getting through five hellish years of marriage and almost dying, Millicent still has good in her heart.  McGoldrick brings the reader two people who help each other come to terms with their pasts and heal their hearts, all while falling in love.  The secondary characters in this book are unforgettable.  The whole storyline was great, not like most historicals where the most pressing issue is what is fasionable to wear.  <br />Don't miss it!	2003-06-21
US	38350586	R3UG2INWFNMTHD	0515133701	934732972	The Perfect Victim	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A surprisingly good read...	Addison Fox had no family left after her adoptive parents were killed in an auto accident ten months before.  With nothing preventing her from locating her birth mother, Addison starts the search that begins something that she never expected.  Finding her birth mother murdered, Addison is devestated, but determined to go on with her life.  When people around her that she knows start to turn up dead, Addison realizes what they all have in common...they know who her mother was.  She only has one person to turn to and she would rather do anything than ask for his help.<br />Randall Talbot has his own demons to fight.  When Addison asks for his help, he wants to refuse.  Then he's thrown right into the middle of the game, and he knows that he can't leave her to end up dead.  The deeper they dig into the past, the more Randall knows that someone is going to wind up dead, and most likely it will be him and Addison.  The very thought of being responsible for her life sends panic streaking through him every time he thinks of it.  The more time he spends with Addison, the more he realizes that he will never be able to desert her.<br />My first book by Linda Castillo was not a dissapointment.  She depicted two strong characters that will hold your interest as well as keep you at the edge of your seat the entire read.  The suspense in this book is very believeable and the romance is very deep due to the time both the characters are in in their lives.  I will definetly pick up the next Castillo book that comes out!	2003-06-20
US	38350586	R1R5EH0MQHAGOF	0373512449	592583985	Timetwist: By Love Possessed	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good time travel romance...	Through a quirk of fate, Liz Hayden was cast back through time as a woman that was said to be murdered by her husband.  When Liz realizes where she is, she has the advantage of knowing what the history books say happen to Elizabeth Rowland.  What she doesn't count on is her attraction to the accused, but aquitted murderer, Garrett Rowland, then man who thinks she is his wife.  The more time Liz spends with Garrett, the more she realizes that he is far from a murderer.  Soon she finds herself in more danger than she ever counted on, from the person she least expected.<br />Garrett knew that something was different about Elizabeth.  What he doesn't realize is what.  Why does she seem so different from the woman that he married?  And why is he suddenly so attracted to her?  All Garrett knows is where he once would have been happy to be rid of her, now he can not let Elizabeth go.<br />This is a sweet time travel romance about two people who are soulmates.  I didn't really like how the story ended, but above all, it was a good read.	2003-06-20
US	38350586	R1RKK3GWCHREYO	1551669552	197171019	Along Came Trouble	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A fitting end in Trinity Harbor...	Tucker Spencer never forgot the woman who broke his heart years ago.  He learned a valuable lesson when Mary Elizabeth Swan married someone else...don't risk your heart for anyone.  When she turns up in his bed after finding her savvy politician husband murdered, Tucker discovers that he can't turn her away.  Now he has a murder in his county that needs to be solved, but has to take himself off the case because he feels his objectivity is in question.  As if he doesn't have enough on his plate, suddenly he has his father, King Spencer, on his back about helping the social climbing witch that broke his heart all those years ago.<br />Liz Chandler realized early on that her marriage was a mistake.  She didn't do anything about it though, not until a week before her husband was murdered and she told him she wanted a divorce.  After a very public scene, Liz returned to her family home in Trinity Harbor, not expecting to find her husband murdered in the library.  The only person she can trust is Tucker Spencer, the man she left so many years before.<br />Now, with a murder investigation going on, Liz and Tucker are gingerly finding their way together toward what they lost so many years ago.  The reader won't be dissapointment in Woods' final installment in the Trinity Harbor trilogy.  We will also learn the fate of King and Frances as well as get caught up with news of Daisy and Walker as well as Bobby and Jenna.	2003-06-17
US	38350586	R2CCWIG3EVK1QP	0373218303	971591106	Grace Under Fire	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A great addition...	Grace Beaumont was living in an emotionless void for four years after the deaths of not only her father and her husband, but her unborn child as well.  When she gets a letter stating that the accident was no accident, Grace feels she has no choice but to pursue justice for the people that she loved and lost.  She turns to the Dundee Agency, and the bodyguard they send, Jed Tyree.  Suddenly she her feelings are not only back, but intensified as she and Jed get closer and closer.  Soon she realizes that while she may not have cared if she lived or died, she doesn't want to lose out on a second chance to love.<br />Jed Tyree has a bigger agenda than only protecting Grace.  The more he falls for her, the more he realizes what a big mistake keeping the full truth from her was.  He's not who she thinks he is.  While she is on the top rung on the social ladder, he isn't even on the ladder.  He soon realizes that there is no way they have a future together.<br />As the danger comes to a boil, both realizes that they won't give the other up.  With her flair for romance and suspense combined, Barton doesn't dissapoint the reader in the new 'Protector' book.	2003-06-17
US	38350586	R3G6QLU0XWY4PU	0373835515	467682406	Impetuous	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A hot romance...plus bonus...	In Impetuous, Lori Foster brings to life two characters who have their own reasons for avoiding love.  For Carlie, it is a past hurt that has her hiding herself behind frumpy clothing and big glasses.  After a disastorous marriage, Carlie is determined never to expose herself the the hurt she knows comes with relationships.  All that changes one impulsive night when she meets Tyler Ramsay incognito.  Tyler never found a woman that could hold his attention for a few months.  Most called him a womanizer, but those closest to Tyler knew the truth.  Not he not only has a mystery lady he can't forget, he has prickly Carlie McDaniels, a woman that he actually enjoys being with.  Lori Foster is at her best in this erotic romance that will hook the reader.<br />There is also a short story that is very short, but sweet too.	2003-06-17
US	38350586	RBMEEPCTR13M0	1551669013	469369201	Ask Anyone (Trinity Harbor)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A great addition to Trinity Harbor...	Jenna Kennedy has something to prove.  She's ready to show her father and two brothers that she is more than an empty-headed woman that is only good for answering the phones and doing the filing at their family owned company.  All she has to do is get the attention of Bobby Spencer, and covince him that she's the perfect person to plan his development of the boardwalk in Trinity Harbor.  The problem is, once she's there, Jenna never wants to leave.<br />Bobby Spencer has had his heart broken and he is determined that it won't happen again.  But he couldn't stop Jenna from bulldozing into his life and changing the way he thought about involvement.  The only thing is, she's determined to keep their relationship strictly professional, because she doesn't want anything interfering in the planning of the boardwalk.<br />This is my second Woods book, the first one being 'About that Man'.  In her normal light hearted way, Woods brings enough emotion into this book to keep the reader hooked.  With the antics of Darcy, Jenna's daughter and the return of Robert 'King' Spencer, you won't put this book down until you've finished it.	2003-06-13
US	38350586	R3L2AGP2OQSVUO	0671036564	251404509	Run For Your Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A suspenseful page turner...	The day Victoria Kensington found her sister, Audrey, unconcious in Central Park, she realized that something more was going on than she originally thought.  With a whispered word to Victoria, Audrey blacks out leaving Victoria no option but to go for help.  When she returns, Audrey is gone.  Victoria's only course of action is to go to her father, who always knows where Audrey is.  When she gets the run around from him, she starts questioning his motives for keeping the truth from her.  In her family, it was always Victoria that ran interferance for her mother and sister against her father.  Soon Victoria realizes that there is more going on than she ever expected, especially when the only man she's loved has come back to Manhattan to find the same answers that Victoria is looking for.<br />What is the Hope Institute?<br />Zach Hamilton has spent his life waiting for the day to bring the drug syndicate that killed his father to justice.  Ever since that day that his father mistakenly stepped into the crossfire, Zach realized that the course of his life had changed.  When he finds Victoria several years later, he finds more than a lover, he finds a soulmate.  It has been four painful years since their parting, but Zach knows that he won't let her go this time around.  The only question is, will they be alive to work out all their differences?<br />In my first Andrea Kane book, I was not dissapointed.  Kane brought so much life into her charachters, that while to plot was far fetched, it was definetely believeable.  While Victoria works on her issues about her obsession with independence, Zach comes to terms with the fact that he can't let his life be ruined by the people that killed his father.  You also have Victoria's father who obviously loves his daughter, but doesn't show it in the best way possible.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-06-13
US	38350586	R2DZM1SL0PX0T3	1551666936	350335975	Prospect Street	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A book that will stay in your heart...	Faith Bronson believed she had the perfect marriage.  After being married to her husband, David, for fifteen years, Faith accepted the fact that though her marriage lacked passion, they were still soulmates.  Then on the evening that Faith believed would put their marriage back on track, it instead changed all their lives forever.  For David harbored a secret in his heart that he didn't even admit to himself.<br />Now Faith is questioning herself as a woman, and a mother.  The life that she has lived for the past fifteen years has been a lie.  She now has two children who refuse to talk to their father and a house that has been in mothers family for generations.  After talking to mother into letting her and her children move into the house on Prospect Street, Faith soon finds that the house is the only thing that is helping her hold it together.  With all the fixing and cleaning and rentovating that needs to be done, Faith has little time for anything else.<br />Then the secrets of the past come to haunt the family that lives on Prospect Street.  Along with neighbor, Pavel Quinn, who is more than he says he is, and her mother Lydia, they work together to uncover the truth about that tragedy that occured in the house so many years before.<br />Emilie Richards has a way of pulling the reader in so they never want to come out.  Though it lacks the usual passionate spark that you find in most romances, you won't miss it with all the emotion that flows through in this book.  Lydia and Dominik's story will make you cry, as will Faith's fight to find out who she really is.  Pavel will make you laugh, for he is eccentric and doesn't understand why he should do anything that everyone thinks he should do.  As a parent, the reader will sympathize with Faith's plight to teach her children that there is more to life than black and white.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-06-11
US	38350586	R19584TONS79C6	0380795116	395793792	Baby, I'm Yours	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Vintage Andersen....	Catherine McPherson has spent her life trying to be everything her twin sister was not...flamboyant, spontaneous, and fun.  After growing up believing that having a stacked body was a sin, Catherine did everything she could to hide it.  When bounty hunter, Sam McKade mistakes her for her twin, Kaylee, Catherine is at first shocked...then she is furious.  While she may play down her looks, no one expects her to think as fast on her feet as she does.<br />Sam McKade just wants to collect the bounty on Kaylee McPherson.  The money he gets from this job will put him over the top for the fishing lodge that he wants to buy for his best friend.  He can't help the instant attraction that he feels for her though.  'Red' as he calls her, is different than he expected.  He expected a brainless bimbo, but he got one smart woman.  The things that she does to slow their trip from Seattle to Miami astound him afterall, she's only a showgirl.<br />The chemistry between Sam and Cat is red hot.  In her normal storyline, Andersen injects a ton of humor into her suspenseful plot.  You will crack up when reading about 'Chains'.  Catherine is a great heroine who is self confident about herself and learns to be comfortable in her body.  Sam is just the kind of hero the reader loves, dark and brooding, a man that just oozes sex appeal.<br />Don't miss it.	2003-06-11
US	38350586	R3ION5EVV4U79G	0380795124	962342023	Be My Baby	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Typical Andersen...	Juliet Astor Lowell has a job to do that she's determined to do right.  When her father insists on her having a bodyguard from the New Orleans Police Department, after a threatening letter, Juliet agrees with his plans...until she meets her bodyguard.  Beau Dupree is the kind of man that Juliet has never been around.  He's outrageous, goregous, and outspoken.  Nothing like the men that have been in Juliet's life.  Soon she realizes that she doesn't want the men she's used to, she wants Beau, but she wonders if she's woman enough to keep him.<br />Beau Dupree has a personal investment in the case against the 'Panty Snatcher'.  When his own sister is victimized, Beau promises himself and his sister that he will catch the pervert who violated her.  When he gets ordered on a case to guard Juliet Rose Astor Lowell, he is livid...at first.  Then he realizes that there is way more to the prim Juliet than what she shows to people.  Beneath her polish and snobby facade is a senuous woman that Beau is determined to uncover.<br />Andersen gives her normal wacky plot, weaving humorous suspense along with senuous sex between the characters.  She also brings us secondary characters that the reader will root for.  A good read that you won't regret spending time reading.	2003-06-08
US	38350586	R27JVKA5RSMY0I	0451410726	549934828	After Midnight	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A story that will grab you from page one...	Lieutenant Colonel Jessica Blackwell has returned to the town that holds so many bad memories for her.  She puts them aside however, for a great career oppurtunity at Eglin Air Force Base.  Always distrusting of law enforcement, she is even more wary of Sheriff Steve Paxton, who wears the same badge as the man that ran her and her mother out of town so many years ago.  <br />Sheriff Steve Paxton puts his attraction to Jess on the back burner and his investigation of two suspicious deaths on the front.  Two men are dead that Jess had reason to hold a grudge against, but this time Steve can't trust his instincts.  Although trying to think with his brain, when it comes to Jess he tends to think with anatomy that is farther south.  <br />I really enjoyed this book.  The suspense was very good.  It was emotional and heartbreaking to read about the struggle Jess went through as a child and now as an adult who loved her mother as much as she did.  Steve tries to be objective, but find that all objectivity flies out the window when it comes to Jess.  I thought that there was few too many facts about Jess's job that can make the reader become confused.  Besides that, it was a great book and I would definetly reccommend it!	2003-06-06
US	38350586	R3NK4ZCIV5VL98	0373691300	501146829	American Heroes: Riley	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another hit by Foster...	In this second installment of her Men of Courage series, Foster brings the reader Riley, a brooding and private man who has dealt with a wealth of hurts in the past.  When he meets Regina Foxworth, he is the only one who believes her claims of someone trying to hurt her.  While Regina goes about learning to defend herself, she learns more about Riley, whom she's more and more attracted to.  Suddenly Regina finds a man that actually wants her and a man whom she doesn't freeze up when she's in bed with him.  <br />Foster doesn't dissapoint in American Heroes: Riley.  With her normal lighthearted writing, twinged with just the right amount of emotion, the reader will go through this book in a day.  Regina and Riley heal each other and their past hurts with a love that is rare.  We also get the antics of Regina's Chihuahua, Butch, who Foster depicts as a four pound guard dog.  <br />Don't miss it!	2003-06-05
US	38350586	R1QAFJPESH82NR	1551668599	449055139	Trust Me Once	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A romantic suspense that will hook you from page one...	Sarah Rand came back from Ireland to see the headlines of her own murder.  Before she can even think of what's going on, she is devestated by the obvious loss of her best friend who was murdered in her place.  As she realizes how much danger she is in, the only person she can trust is a stranger.  <br />Owen Dean has his own demons to face.  When he comes upon Sarah walking along a muddy road, he feels he can do no less than give her a ride.  When he realizes who she is, he wants to contact the police immediately, but is convinced by her that there is a bigger conspiracy going on that anyone is aware of.  <br />Over the course of a week, the suspense in Trust Me Once goes up and down, but stays up most of the time.  Sarah unknowingly put herself right in the middle of a murder case that took place eighteen years before.  Now the only person she can trust in Owen, who she is falling in love with more each day.  Together Owen and Sarah work to uncover the mystery behind her 'death' and try to keep her alive at the same time.<br />Great!	2003-06-04
US	38350586	RXV7FCTGIJXON	1551667592	664899351	Frisco's Kid (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another hit by Brockmann....	Alan 'Frisco' Francisco is on a downhill spiral to nowhere.  After a mission with Alpha Team Ten that busted his knee, Frisco has lost his self confidence as well as self respect.  After five years in a naval hospital, Frisco proved to the doctors that he would walk again, and he is determined to prove that he will be whole so he can rejoin the SEAL team that is his life.  When the doctors as well as his CO, Joe Cat, tells him that the time has come to leave the hospital, deep down, Frisco knows that he won't be joining Team Ten as an active SEAL.<br />Mia was attracted to her new neighbor the first time she saw him.  What he saw as a disability, she saw as a strength.  She saw someone that walked when he was told that he would never walk.  She saw someone that was important, when all he saw was failure.  <br />Frisco and Mia's story will break your heart, as it goes into extensive detail about Frisco's childhood and the importance being a SEAL is to him.  Brockmann brings Frisco Natasha, his niece, who needs him.  Frisco has to put aside his self-pity and think about an innocent five year old girl.  He has to forget about thinking what he can't do and start thinking about what he can do.  Frisco's Kid is an awesome addition to the TDD series, and I was very impressed.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-06-03
US	38350586	RXVRCI3W4LKJY	0373218451	764394170	Navy Blues (The Navy Series #2)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A sweet sequel...	Carol Kyle wanted only one thing from her ex-husband, Steve, a baby.  After all he put her through, she felt that she deserved the one thing she'd always wanted most.  He was the only man that she could ever want to have a baby with, so Carol set about seducing him, all while making him believe that everything was his idea.<br />A part of Steve died when he learned of Carol's infidelity.  It was all the little things that didn't add up, and since his emotions were involved, he didn't see that everything he believed was circumstancial.  When he and Carol have a passion filled night on Christmas Eve, Steve is convinced they can work it out.<br />Although a good book, I felt that it went in circles.  It was Steve and Carol getting back together, then Steve would say something cruel and untrusting, and then Carol would vow to stay away and not risk her heart again.  Over and over.  Even though it was monotonous, it was still a very sweet romance with two people who were deeply in love.	2003-06-01
US	38350586	R3HEPOGC8AKO38	0515134872	124681815	Bad Moon Rising	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another hit by Sutcliffe...	J.D. Damascus lost his reason to live the night that his wife and children were murdered.  Four years after he lost his family, J.D. is only going through the motions of living.  Showing up in court to defend clients that can never pay him, and then going home and going to bed.  After that he wakes up in the morning and does it all over again.  When a series of murders begin that are an eerie reinactment of the serial killer that killed his wife, J.D. is convinced that they put the wrong man to death for the murder of his family.  Then a woman comes into his life that forces him to live again.<br />Holly Jones has vowed to herself never to come back to New Orleans.  Even though it could cost her her life, Holly returns when she receives a desperate call from her best friend.  When she finds herself in need of a lawyer, she finds J.D.'s number on a stall in the women's restroom.  Praying he doesn't recognize her, Holly convinces J.D. to help her find her friend.  They had no idea that their search would bring them full circle.<br />Bad Moon Rising is an awesome suspense and a great romance.  J.D. and Holly come together in a time of need for both of them.  Both have pasts that they would rather put behind them, but until they forgive themselves, they will never be able to forgive themselves.  Together they help each other and try to find a murderer.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-06-01
US	38350586	R2IG2RUVQTGLXP	037318512X	924247226	The Justice Way, By Request 3's: Ryder's Wife/Roman's Heart/Royal's Child	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Three great reads...	RYDER'S WIFE...Casey Ruban had been groomed from childhood to take her grandfather's place in the Ruban family business.  Therefore, she is stunned to learn the stipulation of his will, which states that she must marry within forty eight hours of the reading of the will or her inheritence will revert to her half brother and sister.  In a final act of definance, Casey goes to find a husband that she knows her grandfather would have dissaproved of.  Ryder Justice has been running from his own personal hell for the past six months.  When he sees Casey come into the bar, he knows that he's the only one that will be marrying her.  Ryder's Wife is a story of romantic suspense that will pull at your heartstrings.<br />ROMAN'S HEART...When he was coerced into a vacation by his brother, the last thing he expected to find in his isolated cabin was a woman.  And she wasn't alone.  With her she had over a million dollars in cash.  Roman's head told him to cut his losses and run, but his heart told him not to leave the woman that can't remember her name.  Daisy, the name given to her by Roman, only knows that Roman is the only anchor she has.  When she finds that she has family, she panics and knows she will lose Roman.  This book is very emotional with the struggle Roman goes through when realizing that he's fallen in love.<br />ROYAL'S CHILD...On the day that her mother died, Angel Rojas vowed that she wouldn't love another person, for all they do is leave.  After leaving her job in Alabama, Angel heads west and ends up in the great state of Texas.  When she is picked up by a father and his daughter, soon she realizes that there are greater forces at work.  Royal Justice has never been able to say no to his four year old daughter, Maddie.  Not even when she insists that he pick up a hitchiker who is her 'angel'.  The events that follow will melt even the hardest heart as Angel learns to trust, and Royal learns to love again.  All inspired by a spitfire of a little girl named Maddie.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-05-31
US	38350586	R3BJKHJ8URRYOE	1551668157	775861136	About That Man	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A fast paced read...	Daisy Spencer nurtures children the only way she is able, through her teaching at the high school.  When she finds Tommy Flanagan trying to hot-wire her car, she doesn't see a thief, she sees a ten year old boy who needs someone to love him.  Without a thought to the consequences, Daisy takes steps to be a foster parent to Tommy.  More happy than she has ever been, Daisy is devestated to learn that Tommy has an uncle who may or may not want to take Tommy.  Happy for Tommy, but sad for herself, Daisy does everything she can to show everyone in the community and Tommy's uncle that she could be a good mother for the boy.  She didn't count on her attraction to Walker Ames however.<br />Walker Ames has seen everything in his job as a detective in Washingtion, D.C.  When he gets a call from a social worker in a small town in Virginia, Walker is shocked to learn that he has a nephew, and that his sister is dead.  Not knowing what to expect, Walker takes the trip to the picturesque town.  <br />About That Man is the story of Daisy, who can't have children of her own and reaches out to Tommy even at the risk of heartbreak.  It is of Walker, who screwed up his own marriage, letting his own sons down in the process.  Together, Daisy and Tucker make a family for a boy who has known too much sorrow in his young life, while finding humor in the smallest things.<br />A good read!	2003-05-28
US	38350586	R1FQNB56WB5IAI	0821769391	82274730	Baby, Baby	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A lighthearted read...	Self-absorbed and selfish Tatiana Fox has to change her priorities quick when her husband leaves her for another man and the single mother of twins.  When her nanny quits, Tatiana is ready to scream.  Then she meets Jack Thorpe on her way to read a script for a movie that is supposed to take her to the big time.  <br />Jack Thorpe has lost everything.  As a world famous soccer player, Jack was noticed everywhere.  He partied hard and lived fast, until the day he injured his knee and was out of the game for good.  Then he finds out that he lost all his money and is talked into doing a reading for Sin by Sin, the same movie that Tatiana is reading for.<br />In Baby, Baby, Kylie Adams gives the reader a different kind of book.  Although there were too many one liners to count, it was a humorous read.  Tatiana could start her own personal pharmacy with all the medication her therapist has her on.  Hard to follow at times, Baby, Baby is basically a lighthearted and fast paced read.	2003-05-28
US	38350586	RX5PIC4JZOQ60	0505524996	273190859	Contact	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A poignantly emotional read...	Jordan Cady only has one passion...her six year old daughter, Roberta.  As a pilot for a commercial airline, Jordan is away from home for days at a time.  When she co-pilots a flight that will only keep her away from home for one day, she promises her daughter that she will come home the next day.  Then the unthinkable happens.  From her seat in the cockpit, Jordan sees something that makes her doubt her own sanity.  What looks like a spaceship swallows the 747 whole.  Not knowing what happened and the pilot having died of a heart attack, Jordan is named Captain.  With almost three hundred passengers and a flight crew of twenty, Jordan is convinced that they have been taken hostage.  <br />Kao is on the ship that takes control of the 747 from Earth.  After seeing the total destruction of Earth with his own eyes, Kao is certain that the survivors will be grateful for saving their lives.  What he finds is a plane full of people that will give their lives to save each other.  Soon, he finds himself falling for the captain of the ship.  He is drawn to her strength and courage, something he has seen little of since he was released from captivity.  <br />Jordan and Kao soon realize that they are in the middle of a bigger plan then they thought.  What originally started out as a rescue mission soon turned into something more sinister.  With politics and treason, Jordan and Kao must work together to save the citizens of New Earth and find a way to return everyone home.  <br />The story between Kao and Jordan is poignant and heartbreaking.  They find eachother in the middle of crisis, only holding onto what they know is true...each other.  It is their love that gets them through the three months they spend aboard The Savior and what ulimately saves the lives of more than one hundred people.  Kao's inner struggle brought tears to my eyes at times, as did the heartbreak Jordan felt over losing her daughter.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-05-27
US	38350586	R2RN6X6XLAP6ZN	0425185419	948642928	On the Edge	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Dissapointing...	Pyschologist Meredith Greene blames herself for the death of one of her patients.  When she dies while climbing a Colorado mountain with her boyfriend, famous climber Erik Amundsson, Meredith constantly questions herself and the advice she gave to her patient.  For eight months all she can think of is making Erik admit that it is his fault that she is dead.  Her work, her family, and her friends all take the back seat to her need for revenge.<br />Soon Meredith finds herself in the middle of an affair with Erik that turns her into someone she doesn't recognize.  She can't do anything without thinking of Erik.  Then she realizes that all they have is a sexual chemistry, and no real intimacy.  When Erik leaves with his team for a climb in Alaska, he leaves Meredith with an engagement ring and tells her how much he loves her.  Then there is an accident, where one of the crew dies and Erik goes missing.<br />The events that follow are nauseating to the reader and also unbelieveable.  As a psychologist, Meredith had no insight on her own psyche and was a weak woman who let herself be taken over by a man that went from one woman to the next.  Never opening himself up, Meredith still convinced herself that she was in love with Meredith which made me want to scream.  Then there is the character of John McCord who was from the NSA which is investigating Erik.  The whole story was weak and the suspense was lukewarm at best.  The romance, while intense, made the heroine out to be a naive and weak woman, where normally they are depicted as strong.<br />Overall, I wouldn't rush out to get it.	2003-05-25
US	38350586	R36SQBHW5FEULX	0373835892	160247103	Silent Confessions	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An erotic tale...	Ronnie Archer has always been fascinated by erotic literature.  Which is why she loves her bookstore so much, which specializes in hard to find erotic books.  When a stalker starts preying on women in the city, Detective Jack Parker comes to Ronnie for help.  For only she can give him insight to the stalkers choice of passages from the books she carries in her store.  He also kindles her desire, which has been raging since she started working on her final paper to get her PHD.<br />Det. Jack Parker has never met anyone that could make him instantly think of sex.  That changes the first time he lays eyes on Veronica Archer.  She is everything he'd never had and always wanted.  Then he finds out that she's been getting notes for two months.  While they are sweet and seemingly innocent notes, he is convinced there is a connection between the stalker and Ronnie's admirerer (sp?).<br />Then two of the victims are murderered and Jack's now worried for Ronnie's safety.  Now the woman he has fallen in love with may fall prey to the psysco that is walking the streets scaring women.  Although the suspense isn't very original, I picked it up for the romance aspect, which definetly doesn't dissapoint.  It is a highly steamy and erotic book which plenty of sex between the two main characters.	2003-05-24
US	38350586	R1SQ8KLPEHSZ5R	1551666758	322055024	The Perfect Lie	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A page turning romantic suspense...	The course of Jonah Slade's life changed the day the woman he loved told him she had aborted his child.  Not having any family, he joined the CIA in undercover work.  Fifteen years after the day Felicity told him she aborted his child, Jonah was sent on a mission in South America with instructions to bring a drug lord down who had plans to assasinate the president.  When the calvary arrived, he watched as the son of the drug lord killed one of his men and without hesitation, took a head shot at him.  It was his bad luck that the boy's father saw the whole thing and vowed revenge.  For he knew what Jonah didn't...that he had a fifteen year old son.<br />Macie Blaine had a crush on Jonah when she was thirteen and he was in his mid twenties.  She was heartbroken when she found out what Felicity had done and told Evan, his son, exactly who his father was.  After she did that, she was disowned and left California for Chicago to start her own business.  When she gets the news that Felicity is dead, her father in critical condition, and Evan kidnapped, she calls in every favor she has to find Jonah.  For the message left was 'an eye for an eye, a son for a son'. <br />The Perfect Lie is an emotional read about a father who never had the chance to know is son, and may never get the chance.  It is about the courage of a fifteen year old boy, facing an evil he never imagined exsisted.  It is the story of a woman who wants to save the boy she loves and the man she is falling in love with.<br />A great read!	2003-05-24
US	38350586	R2AD7IVFKDLZA1	0743419170	585902307	Secret Ways	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A page turning historical...	Vermillon 'Lee' Durant is preparing to follow the destiny of all the female Durants as a courtesan.  By day she is Lee, a carefree innocent who loves horses and kittens.  At night she transforms herself into Vermillon, a seductress that needs to choose her protector by her nineteenth birthday.  Though she thought she had come to terms with her destiny, she soon finds that she is far from sure if she wants to spend her life as a mistress.  When she meets Caleb Tanner, the new head groom at Parkland, she finds someone who can ignite the fire deep within her.  As the weeks pass, she realizes that she has to be independent, even at the cost of her aunt's dissapointment.<br />Captain Caleb Tanner has been assigned to Parkland in as a groom to try to uncover a traitor to the Crown.  He didn't count on meeting someone as seductive as Vermillion nor as innocent as Lee.  Though Vermillion and Lee are one and the same, only Caleb has uncovered the true person she is.  <br />Though Secret Ways isn't has emotional as Martin's previous historicals, it is still an easy read that you will want to finish.  Caleb and Lee work together to uncover a traitor which is a little unbelieveable, but the sexual tension between them is undeniable.  Also unbelieveable is the fact that Lee is a virgin, which is what all our heroines in historicals are.  It was a change from historicals where the heroines were a part of the ton, as Lee had more freedom to do what she wished.  I have had a hard time lately getting into historicals, but I'm glad I took a chance on this one!	2003-05-23
US	38350586	RXHSDAGHMIU2B	1551667126	797051934	Dead Ringer	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another hit by Cresswell...	Charlotte Gray had found happiness with her husband of seven months, Dan.  On Christmas night after spending the day with her family, Charlotte and Dan return to their home where they have found so much happiness.  When Dan tells Charlotte he forgot to take the garbage out, Charlotte wakes up the next morning to find that Dan never returned.  Insisting to the police that Dan is a victim of foul play, Charlotte is totally unprepared for the news that she has spent the last year in the company of one of the most wanted terrorists in the U.S.<br />Now, eighteen months later, Charlotte hasn't come to terms with the fact that she was married to such a monster.  Moving from Iowa to Flordia, Charlotte has made a clean break from everyone she loves.  When the FBI return to her life and tell her they need her help, Charlotte agrees, for there is nothing more that she wants than to see Dan in jail for the rest of his life.<br />Dan never expected to fall in love with Charlotte.  When he took up the identity of Daniel O'Toole to help his country, he never expected to have Charlie sucked in the middle of it.  Going against everything he wanted, Dan left Charlie in the middle of the night.  Now, almost two years later, he's back to protect her.  <br />Although the book starts out slow, it quickly picks up and hooks the reader.  It had a lot more factual information than any other of Cresswell's books, but I still enjoyed it very much.	2003-05-21
US	38350586	RO05VU1Z4S8BH	1576739279	306852563	Danger in the Shadows	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Different from what I expected...	Sara has spent the last twenty five years of her life in fear of the man that kidnapped her and her twin sister, Kim, when they were six years old.  Over the years she has changed her name countless times as well as her home for one of the kidnappers was never caught.  She can never forge lasting friendships for the fear that she will put anyone else in danger.  Then one night she meets Adam Black, a once famous football player and now a huge voice in the sports world.  <br />Adam has never met anyone like Sara.  When he finds out what her life is really like, all he wants to do is protect her.  As time goes on and he realizes that they will never have a normal life, he turns to God for answers.  What he finds in his heart is that he will do anything to stay apart of Sara's life.<br />The suspense in this book was very good and I really like the character of Dave.  I have read books where there are references to God, but this was almost too much for me.  There was zero sexual tension between the two characters, which I like reading in a romantic suspense.  Their love was almost too pure if that's possible.  Overall, I did enjoy it.	2003-05-21
US	38350586	R25XH6O928IW8I	0425179060	258701757	A Dance Through Time (Macleod Family)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A sweet story...	Elizabeth Smith got her happiness from the world of fiction.  Writing romances, Elizabeth enjoys her life.  When she first dreams of a fierce Scotland warrior, she is convinced she needs a vacation.  In an attempt to clear her head, she takes a walk to a park nearby her house...and wakes up in fourteenth century Scotland.  Realizing that she is stuck in 1311, Elizabeth tries to make the best of her situation, and soon finds herself falling in love with the Laird of the clain McLeod.<br />Jamie McLeod follwed his father's tradition in not allowing women in his keep.  That changes when Elizabeth is found in the forest surrounding the keep.  Believing her as a witch, Jamie banishes her to the dungeon and makes plans to burn her at the stake.  Too late he looks through Elizabeth's things and realizes that she is from another time and not the witch he has dubbed her.  <br />The days that follow will bring a smile to the readers face.  Jamie is endearingly sweet and at the same time fiercly masculine.  Elizabeth was not put off by Jamie's gruff manner which will endear her to the reader.  I have read other reviews about not liking that Jamie returned to Elizabeth's time, but Kurland brings the story about in a way that to not return to the twentieth century would unravel the threads of time and change the future.  I immensely enjoyed this book!	2003-05-20
US	38350586	R22RHO7VQ8VZGB	1551669021	909011919	Like Silk	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fast paced read...	Brittany Banks has worked hard the past three years.  Working two jobs and going to school, all Brittany wants to do is prove that her brother, Tommy, wasn't drunk when he hit Jackson Williams and left him paralyzed, but drugged.  Thinking Rupert Holt, the travel agency where she works most prestigous client is interested in helping her, she accepts his invitation to dinner.  When she rebuffs his sexual advances, a menacing, evil side of him comes out.  After hitting her, he shoves her out of the car.  From there, she sets off walking, only to have a guardian angel swoop down and save her.<br />Collier Smith has worked his whole life to prove to his stepfather, Mason Williams, that even if he doesn't have his blood running through his veins, he can make him proud.  With his stepbrother, Jackson, out of the running, Collier has been nominated for a federal judgeship.  Then he meets Brittany Banks, not knowing how she is or how she could effect his life.<br />While the sexual tension is high between the two, they are intimate often which rids the tension between the two.  It is basically a story about a trailer trash woman who isn't good enough for the man she loves.  The man is torn between making his stepfather proud and the woman he has fallen in love with.  While this isn't one of the better books I've read, I would recommend it on a rainy day.	2003-05-19
US	38350586	R1FG3P7EGI7DFQ	0373835760	226025376	Men of Courage	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A romance of courage...	TRAPPED! (Lori Foster)...Ethan Winters has dealt with being stood up at the altar the only way he knows how, by showing everyone that he is over his almost wife.  Going out with a different girl on the nights he's not pulling people out of burning buildings, Ethan thinks he's doing a great job...until he wakes up and finds Rosie Carrington in his bed.  Rosie has been in love with Ethan for years, and has decided the time has come to seduce him.  With hot sex and emotions running high, Lori Foster delivers in Trapped!<br />BURIED! (Donna Kauffman)...Having no luck with men, Haley Brubaker has her Jack Russell terrier, Digger.  Digger is the only being that she can count on in her life.  Which is why she is so frantic when an earthquake hits the bay area town where she lives.  Racing home, she finds the road to her house closed off, surrounded by emergency personnel.  Approaching the first worker she sees, she is stunned to see the now gorgeous younger brother of her ex-boyfriend, Brett Gannon.  Brett has always had a crush on Haley, ever since he was sixteen and she was nineteen.  All he has to do is convince her that what they have going between them is worth fighting for.  <br />STRANDED! (Jill Shavlis)...Dr. Matt Walker never has emotional entanglements with his patients, or with anyone else for that matter.  When a huge storm hits the Texas town he lives in, Matt heads to his car for the drive to the hospital emergency room where he'll be needed.  Then he sees a woman clinging to a tree on his property and goes after her.  Molly Stanton thought he was the angel of Death when he swooped her out of the storm.  Now, in the basement of his plantation house, Molly vows to herself that she'll change herself from the absentminded professor to someone that enjoys life...and sex.  And she'll start with Dr. Walker.  Shalvis brings a fast read that is packed with emotion without being unbelieveable.<br />If you want a fast read, pick this up.  I read it in less than four hours!	2003-05-18
US	38350586	R1KPW0300S5OD3	1551669196	190702677	Twice Burned (Mira Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A suspense filled read...	After Lea and Ted Hardy went home from school one day and found their parents dead, they became closer than ever.  While Lea decided to stay as far away from Stonybrook as possible and the memories the town held for her, Ted married the daughter of the richest man in Stonybrook.  With his marriage over, Ted is fighting hard for custody of his two daughters.  Everything seems to be going great for him, for almost all the citizens of Stonybrook are standing by his side.  Then, one horrific night, Ted goes to pick up his girls and finds the house on fire with his daughters inside.  Shellshocked and heartbroken, Ted doesn't care that he is convicted of the murder of his whole family and sentenced to die.<br />Lea Hardy is returning to Stonybrook after nearly twenty years.  She needs to sell the house her father killed her mother in and then killed himself.  She also started getting anonymous letters saying that Ted was innocent and all she had to do was come back to Stonybrook.  Soon she is pieceing together an even greater puzzle than the murder of Ted's family.  When it seems everyone in the town is turning her away, Mick Conklin, her next door neighbor is there for her.<br />Mick always watched out for Lea when she lived next door.  As a teenager, he was astounded by her courage.  As an adult, he is awed by her strength and beauty.  Lea not only brightens up his life, but his daughter's as well.  When he had given up hope that Heather would ever open up to him again, Lea helped her like he wasn't able to.  Strange things then start to happen as Lea tries to uncover the real murderer.<br />This is a great book and I'm looking foward to reading the one that came before it.  Jan Coffey also writes under the name May McGoldrick, who rights historical romances.  Don't miss it!	2003-05-17
US	38350586	R1BERBCA69GO65	0373835507	948512445	Veils of Deceit (2 novels in 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An action packed read...	In Veils of Deceit, the reader gets Free Fall by Jasmine Cresswell and Keeping Secrets by B.J. Daniels.<br />FREE FALL...I give this book five stars.  As one of my favorite authors of romantic suspense, Cresswell didn't dissapoint in this read of desire, danger, and espionage.  Liz Mercham has lost her last three roommates to suicide.  With the first two it all seemed like a bizarre coincidence, but when her third roommate jumps to her death, Liz gets suspicious.  Especially since Karen was a secretary to her ex-husband, Senator Dexter Rand.  It had been nine years since their turbulent nine months of marriage, but Dex could still make her blood boil.  Now it seems that people all around them are dying, and all the fingers point to them.  You will be on the edge of your seat with this book and you won't be dissapointed by the ending.<br />KEEPING SECRETS...I would only give this book three stars.  This is my first B.J. Daniels book, and I was a bit dissapointed.  Paige Grayson just found out that her father just died four days before, one day after her mother.  The thing that shocked her was that her mother told her that her father died twenty three years ago when Paige was three.  Suddenly Paige is smack in the middle of a blackmail scheme that she is trying to uncover with the dangerous Devon St. Cloud.  The story line was pretty good, but the characters were a little shallow.  Not happy with herself, Paige has an alter ego 'P.T. Alexander' that she converses with.  We don't get a lot from Devon's point of view, but what little we do have doesn't show us he's dangerous.  It doesn't show us much of anything.  Also the desire between the two was luke warm at best.<br />I would get this book because I would definetly recommend Free Fall!	2003-05-16
US	38350586	R2M44PDGJSZSNZ	1551662957	757687423	Vow	Books	3	4	4	N	N	1/2* Lacking the usual emotional pull...	Brittany was devestated when she found out that Dan Remington was killed in a plane crash over the South American jungle.  Not only did she lose the man that she was desperately in love with, she was also left with a constant reminder of that loss...his baby.  When her parents turned her away after her passionate denial about giving away her baby, she had no one left to turn to.  Except Michael Sinclair, Dan's best friend.  Not wanting to be a burden, Brittany strikes out on her own.<br />Michael had the perfect solution to Brittany's problem.  She could marry him, therefore taking care of the baby.  He felt it was the least he could do for his best friend's memory.  What he didn't expect was the feelings that Brittany envoked in him, nor the feeling he felt toward the baby when she arrived.  It all erupts when Dan returns from the dead and makes Brittany and Michael take a long and hard look at their marriage of 'convience'.<br />Although this book started out promising, I was soon skimming it.  Brittany seemed like a naive twit to me who had no idea what love was.  I could understand her wanting security for her baby, but when she said that what she felt for Dan was a girl's love and what she felt for Michael was a woman's love, I was floored.  It was less than two years and I didn't see anything different in her character to signify that she changed at all.  Michael on the otherhand didn't admit his feelings to himself until nearly the end of the book.  He had been in love with his best friend's girlfriend from the beginning.  I would like to know how that was possible, as it was clearly explained in the beginning of the book that Brittany only met him once or twice. The reason I had to give it three stars was because after reading her other books, I just didn't feel that it had the depth of the others. <br />If it's your first time trying a Schulze book, I would recommend Loving Jessie or The Substitute Wife.	2003-05-16
US	38350586	R2JL60A006H01	0505523647	770728227	Once A Pirate	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A book you won't be able to put down...	Lieutenant Carly Callahan had always loved to fly.  When flying over the Atlantic Ocean, she encounters a storm and has to eject from her jet.  She is rescued almost at once by a man who reminded her of a nineteenth century pirate.  Everything from his clothes to his ship tell her that she made the incredible feat of traveling through time.  As her panic increases, so does her desire for her captor, whom she feels she has known and loved.  If this isn't enough for her to handle, Andrew believes that she is Lady Amanda, his Duke cousin's betrothed.  With plans to ransom her for revenge, Carly has six weeks to convince him that she's not who he thinks she is.<br />Sir Andrew Spencer has suffered at the hands of his father's family.  With thoughts of revenge, Andrew takes Amanda captive.  He didn't plan on the pull he felt toward her, nor the dreams that he can't stop having.  In every dream he is trying to save the woman he loves, but is unable to help her.  He has dreams of metal and helicopters, something that doesn't even exsist in his time.  Over the course of their journey, Andrew finally excepts the awesome possibility that Carly came to him from the twentieth century.<br />This is a great book with where emotions run high.  Grant portrays Carly and Andrew who are solemates in many lives.  I couldn't put it down and read it in less than one day!	2003-05-15
US	38350586	R1D70K4I3RL35O	0505524570	438559502	The Star Prince (Star Series, Book 2)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A GREAT sequel in the 'Star' series...	Ian Hamilton has been the picture of propriety since his stepfather, Rom B'kah, named Ian his heir as King to the galaxy.  Now, seven years later, Ian is fighting to keep Earth on good terms with the Vash.  Wanting to pull out of the treaty that Earth signed seven years ago, Ian has set out to prove that it is best for the galaxy all around if they all stick together.  With the return of Muffin, we are also introduced to a crew that will go straight to your heart.  When Ian finds himself not able to keep a pilot, he hired 'Tee' whom he knows is running, but he doesn't know from what she's running.<br />Tee'ah Dar has fled her life as a Vash Princess.  Never having the freedom to make her own choices, not even choosing the man she marries, Tee'ah is sick to death of her life as a pampered princess.  The only thing she has ever done behind her family's back is learn how to fly, the one thing that she can't live without doing.  When her father finds out, Tee'ah knows that she can't stay and keep suffocating under her father's rule, or her heart will slowly die.  When she meets Ian, he seems a gift from God, or so she thought.  What she didn't know was that he was the prince of the galaxy and if he knew who she was, he would return her before she could say 'Earthdweller'.<br />Tee'ah and Ian's story is truly heartwarming.  All her life Tee'ah has been taught to put the needs of others above the needs of few.  This once she has denied her heritage and fallen in love in the process.  Ian has done everything he can to please Rom, and not end up like his father, who treats women as bad as he ever treated his mother.  Ian has a rolemodel in Rom who he wants to be proud of him, but he doesn't think he could give up the love of his life.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-05-13
US	38350586	RB7VX63R3IWDY	0505524139	939841716	The Star King (Star Series, Book 1)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A book that will hold you spellbound...	Rom B'kah was fighting for the freedom of the galaxy when on the day twenty years ago when his brother died and he was disowned by his family.  As he was lying injured, he saw a vision of the most beautiful woman that he had ever laid eyes on.  He knew she was an angel, for no one in the galaxy had hair as black as hers.  Her words stayed with him 'crush the darkness' as did the heat of her kiss.  Then he was captured, and abandoned by his angel.  When he killed his enemy, he thought he would go home in triumph, but instead he went home in disgrace.<br />Jasmine Hamilton was a pilot with the Airforce on the fateful day that her plane was shot down over Saudi Arabia.  Suddenly she was dreaming that she was in a world that couldn't possible exsist.  With ships flying overhead that she had never seen and a wounded warrior that looked like no man she had ever seen, Jas knew that she was hallucinating.  For years after she returned to conciousness, she could never forget the man that she shared such a heated kiss for, nor how he asked her to not leave him.  <br />Now Rom and Jas have found each other again.  Through some undefined quirk of nature Jas knew this vistor to Earth from another galaxy.  Together they embark on a journey that will pull the reader in with its' emotion and hold you spellbound with its' magic.  There is still a galaxy that is in danger of a deadly threat and the heads of eight families that don't agree.  Jas and Rom fight to bring freedom and safety to the galaxy that Rom loves and fighting for the love they feel for each other.	2003-05-12
US	38350586	R2762Y3VU6GB9X	0425153789	101996312	Immortal in Death (In Death, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good, but not the best...	I enjoyed this 'In Death' book, but not as much as the previous two.  <br />Lieutenant Eve Dallas has a murder of a 'weasel' (snitch) and the murder of one of the hottest models on the runway.  When the murders look to be connect, Eve digs deeper to try to find the connection that will point to the murderer.  The only connection she has is a new drug called Immortal.  She also has her best friend, the quirky Mavis, charged with the murder of the model.  Mavis' motive was clear.  The model, Pandora, threatened to ruin Leonardo, the up and coming fasion designer unless he dumped Mavis and came back to her.  While Eve is unraveling the mystery between the murders, she is also trying to help Roarke plan their wedding, which is not her cup of tea.  When she starts having nightmares about her childhood, she tries to convince Roarke that they should put off their wedding.  She doesn't want to use him and she's very afraid that's what she's doing.  Then, on the night before her wedding, she realizes that they love and need each other, and nothing will stop them from getting married.  That is before the case she thought was closed all blows up.<br />This book had a lot more factual information than the other two books.  There was a lot on plants and hogroculture (sp?) that kind of lost me.  The emotion was brought into the book with Eve's wrestling with her consious about her childhood and finally coming to terms and accepting her feelings for Roarke.  I definitely can't wait to pick up the next book!	2003-05-10
US	38350586	R2CQ3O55UUVGIK	0505525003	499217408	Gentleman Caller	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A lighthearted romance...	Maxine Bleckner found the perfect way to support herself and her ten month old son, Graham, while being able to stay at home with him.  She launched her 900 phone sex number with extrodinary results.  She was even able to hire an additional employee because business was so good.  The best part was that she was able to stay home with her son all day long and support them comfortably.  When she got a call from a man claiming that all he wanted to do was get to know her, she was intrigued in spite of herself.  No man that called ever wanted to talk of her dreams and her desires.  It was always about them.  So when Harold started calling, Maxine was quickly drawn into his web.<br />Harry Watson had an article to write.  After calling several 900 numbers, he struck gold with India aka Maxine.  Soon he couldn't wait to talk to her and he was able to talk her into meeting him.  Trying to keep his true intentions hidden, while convincing her he was deadly serious in his feelings about her took a larger toll than he thought it would.  Before long he found himself falling head over heels in love with her.  She was an intriguing mix of India, the seductress and Maxine, the mother.<br />When Maxine finds out about Harry's article, it takes time for her to get over the hurt.  Soon she realizes that the reason she can't trust him goes farther than meets the eye, and soon they start together on a journey that will be full of love and laughter.	2003-05-09
US	38350586	RFCDOOVQJIY1W	0373835469	565906332	A Stranger's Kiss: Winter's Edge	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Two great reads in one book....	WINTER'S EDGE (Anne Stuart) Molly Winters didn't even know her own name.  All she knew was that she awoke in a hospital with no memory of her name, her face, or the husband the nurse said came to the hospital when she was unconcious.  When she was taken home to Winter's Edge, a house she seemed to love, it was fraught with tension.  Her husband seemed to hate her and was looking foward to having a speedy divorce.  Soon accidents begin to happen and she can't help but suspect Patrick, her sexy and mysterious husband.  Then she starts remembering things that don't seem to fit with the image she had made for herself with the people of Winter's Edge.  This is a very quick read with a seemingly immature twenty three year old who married a man ten years older because she was in love with him.  Everyone in her life except Patrick took advantage of her naivete and she soon realized that he was the only one who wouldn't let her down.<br />SAFE BY HIS SIDE (Debra Webb) Jack Raine is a wanted man.  The U.S. government wants him brought in and the head of the family he infiltrated to bring down wants him dead.  When a mysterious woman turns up on his doorstep during a storm, he knows he can't dare to trust her.  When paid assasins follow in her wake, he makes a run for it and takes \\"Kate\\" with him.  Soon Raine and Kate are involved in a deadly game of cat and mouse with the desire escalating between them more and more as each day passes.  A very quick read that will hook you!<br />Don't miss it!	2003-05-07
US	38350586	RNCUMNBIYMP76	0425150984	203707661	Glory in Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great addition!!	Eve Dallas once again has a murderer to catch.  This time, the victims are all successful females that have families that mourn them.  Once again the link between the victims is Eve's lover, they mysterious Roarke.  However, this time she is doing all she can to clear him from her list of suspects.  Roberts hooks the reader with the suspense as well as the ongoing romance between Roarke and Eve.  Never having a family or very many friends, Eve is struggling with her relationship with Roarke.  A part of her wants to keep a part of her life seperate if he ever leaves her, but a part of her wants to grab him with both hands and never let go.<br />You will be hooked and shocked by the suspense part of the story.  I was very surprised when the murderer was revealed, but once again, Even saves the day in a blaze of Glory.	2003-05-06
US	38350586	R1UCFN4OKJ4DAF	1551665530	742250447	Sleeping Beauty	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A sweet romance...	Ever since the murder of her sister, Anne Moore has been smothered not only by her family, but by the town of Loving, Indiana.  Not wanting what happened to Brooke to happen to Anne, her mother watches her with an eagle eye, wanting her to live in the house where she grew up so she'll be safe and protected.  The people in Loving weren't able to protect Brooke, so they want to do whatever possible to watch out for Anne.  Since her sister died when she was ten, Anne has no recollection of what a normal childhood should be like.  When Niell Devlin breaks down in Loving, Anne realizes how closed in everyone has made her, and more, she's realized how much she's allowed her life to be effected by her mothers' fear.<br />Niell Devlin has spent his adult life writing criminal nonfiction books.  Needed a break from the evil he has to follow, Niell decides to take a trip across the country.  When his motorcycle breaks down in the small town of Loving, Niell can only hope that it will be a few days before he can be on the road again.  When he meets Anne, he is facsincated by the mixture of innocence and strength that he sees in her.  He has never met anyone who was more open than Anne, and soon he's hoping that it will take a lot longer than a few days to fix his bike.<br />Sleeping Beauty is a novel about a woman that has grown up believing that if she tried hard enough she could be as perfect as her dead sister.  She soon realizes that death has made her think her sister was more perfect than she was, and she needs to take some control over her life.  Niell Devil helps her do that and together they find a love spectacular enough to awake her from the prison she helps contribute to.<br />Happy reading!	2003-05-06
US	38350586	R1LIQR8NLCITF5	0821764020	776812312	Unspoken (Zebra Books)	Books	5	61	64	N	N	You will be hooked from the first page....	Shelby Cole has returned to Bad Luck, Texas after being gone nearly ten years.  When she was told by her father that her daughter died, she left with no intention of ever returning.  Then she received an anonymous package with pictures of the daughter that she thought died.  Knowing that she'd do anything to get her daughter back, Shelby returns to Bad Luck.  Once there, she asks Nevada Smith for help, her one time love and the father of her baby.  Although she swore that she would never fall in love with Nevada again, she knew that she couldn't stop it.<br />Nevada Smith was always labeled a \\"no good half breed\\" by the citizens of Bad Luck.  He couldn't stay away from Shelby Cole ten years before, and he knew that he wouldn't be able to stay away now.  Even though she was the pampered daughter of Judge Red Cole, something about her drew him.  When he's hit with the information that he was a father and never knew it, Nevada vows that he will do anything he can to find their daughter.<br />Then a ten year old murder case resurfaces when the man originally convicted is released.  When the man who's testimony sent him to prison says he was wrong about what he saw, Ross McCallum is a free man once again.  Tension runs high in this book of greed, evil, jealousy, and love.  Everyone has secrets in Bad Luck, secrets that Nevada and Shelby are close to revealing.  Not only do they have a daughter to find, but now they have to find out who murdered Ramon Estevan, because Nevada has been arrested for the crime.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-05-04
US	38350586	R19DO1GAPF2VY5	0373218443	111924637	Navy Wife (The Navy Series #1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A sappy romance....	Lindy Kyle has retreated to Seattle to lick her wounds.  After being dumped by her financee, Lindy knew that it was time to strike out on her own.  At twenty-two, she has known only one heartbreak, and thought it would break her.  That all changed when she met Rush Callaghan, her brother's roommate.  <br />Rush loved the Navy more than anything.  After being burned by the woman he loved, he gave everything in him to the Navy.  He felt broadsided by Lindy, who was ten years younger than him and light years more naive.  Even if she didn't realize that she couldn't be a Navy wife, he did.  That still didn't stop him from claiming her as his own, though.<br />Navy Wife was an incredibly sappy romance.  Rush and Lindy fell in love within the first hundred pages.  Lindy embraced her feelings for Rush, while he denied them.  She was a little immature for my taste, as I don't see how a twenty-two year old like her could hang on to an older more mature man.  It was a very predicatable book, with Lindy finally growing up and realizing that if Rush gave up the Navy he wouldn't be the man she fell in love with.  I gave it four stars because the emotion was intense enough to hook me.	2003-05-03
US	38350586	R266QQV2XM3850	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	WOW!	In my experience, romance writers that turn suspense haven't turned out all that great.  I took a chance on the In Death series and I am so glad I did.  This book hooked me from the first page!<br />Taking place in 2058, Lt. Eve Dallas thought she has seen everything in her profession as a cop.  When Eve is put on a case for a murder victim, what is shocking is how the victim is killed.  Only the very wealthy can afford to collect antique weapons, which include any type of gun.  Gun's were banned around 2020, and are very expensive to aquire.  This helps her narrow down her suspects.  All the evidence soon points to Roarke, a billionaire.  Eve is soon drawn into a case that hits too close to home, laying her emotions bare.  Soon the desire flowing between her and Roarke is too much to deny and Eve finds herself in a relationship with her prime suspect.  <br />The outcome of the book is surprising, but not shocking.  The relationship between Eve and Roarke is intense and emotional.  Due to both their pasts, they have a hard time opening up to anyone, but find that with each other, they might be able to.  Again, this was a great book and I look foward to reading the rest in the series.	2003-05-03
US	38350586	R2H0BF55XLTF0Q	0843951702	243266322	The Only One	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Left wanting...	Dark Descent (Christine Feehan)...Traian Trigovise is an ancient.  Sent out hundreds of years ago by the prince to hunt the undead, his soul started to blacken years before.  Never daring to hope that he'd find his lifemate, he is shocked when he meets Joie Sanders.  Soon he realizes that she is not just a figament of his imagination, but flesh and blood.  Joie is drawn to the caves where she first saw the man that could heat her blood.  Certain that she is going crazy, she sets out to prove to herself that she is not.  This short anthology is action packed with battles with vampires that will keep the reader hooked.  I felt that this story didn't have the emotion of the others, as it was so short.  It isn't a bad addition to the Dark Series, it just seemed like the story didn't develop as the others in the series did.  Joie was way too excepting, unbelieveably so.<br />The Star Queen (Susan Grant)...Definetly different.  Romjha B'kah is one five raiders that protect the world that many are trying to keep from being destroyed.  Living underground to avoid death, no one has seen the light of day in years.  It wasn't until he heard an impassioned plea from Taj Sai, that Romjha realized that he wasn't living.  He was exsisting in a void.  He vowed that night that he would find peace for their world and claim Taj as his own.  Taj Sai was now the master bombmaker after her predecessor was killed due to stupidity.  The years that followed she grew closer and closer to Romjha, but never realized the extent of his feelings.  Together, along with their people, they fought for a world without war, a world where they could enjoy the sun, and their women and children would be safe.<br />Sacrilege (Susan Squires)...Magda Ravel was made into a vampire several hundred years ago.  When she was abandoned by the one that made her, she went on a rampage, leaving dead bodies in her wake.  It wasn't until Julien came back and saw what he created that Magda realized how much havoc she had created.  For one hundred eighty years, she learned to control the Companion in her, and it seemed to be working.  She was sent back out into the world, leaving the one person she trusted.  Pietr Vladamiroff realized that he had loved Magda for a century, perhaps even longer.  When she left he felt that part of him was torn from his body.  Suddenly all his training couldn't make his supress his emotions.  When his mentor and guide told him that he would remove temptation, Pietr broke his Vow and went after Magda.  Together they defeated an evil that was undefeatable.  Pietr then proved to Magda that together they would balance each other out.  This book was probably my least favorite of the three.	2003-05-02
US	38350586	R3QBEP5EUHQ6S	0373512341	856512978	Not Quite an Angel (Time Twist)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great time travel romance...	Sameh Smith was sent back to the late twentieth century from 2500 A.D.  Not used to the primitive emotions people felt in that late 1990's, she is ill prepared for someone as sexually vital as Adam Hawkins.  From her training, she is able to decern little that Adam thinks, but what she does know is how much he wants her sexually.  <br />Adam has never met anyone like Sameh.  First hired to investiage her, he was unable to find a trace of her before April.  When he meets her he feels something that he has never felt for another woman, but according to her, she's from another time.  Adam has a hard time believing that, but when she says she will have to go home, Adam knows that she's telling the truth.<br />The story between these two was so sweet.  I really got into it and read it in only two days.  The ending was great, and made me want to keep go on reading!	2003-04-30
US	38350586	R3A7ZWWHYA03Y2	0821775286	428893049	After Sundown	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An interesting vampire read...	Edward Ramsey comes from a long line of vampire hunters.  When given the choice of death, or being one of those he's hunted, he chooses to become a vampire.  Suddenly Ramsey is overwhelmed with feelings, thoughts, sounds, and smells.  He meets his salvation in Kelly Armstrong, who makes him realize that his exsistance is what he makes of it.<br />Kelly was ready for death when Edward saved her.  She felt fear and excitement whenever she was near him.  <br />This book was a little corny, but good at the same time.  The sweetest part of the story for me was of Marisa and Grigori.  I liked Edward, and his struggle to adjust gave a lot of emotion to the book.  Kelly was a little unbelieveable, which is why I have a hard time writing more about her.  It seems like she fell in love with Edward in just a few days, without knowing anything about him except he was a vampire and took her blood, almost killing her.  The battle at the end was awesome though!  I especially liked how it ended!	2003-04-29
US	38350586	R3E3TF7NRPPOJ8	0758204280	950486991	Bad Boys On Board (Watson Brothers)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Three intensely erotic tales...	MY HOUSE, MY RULES (Lori Foster)...Officer Sam Watson has been around the block more than a few times.  When first introduced to his brother's new friend, Ariel, Sam felt instantaneous lust for the blond bombshell.  It wasn't just that she was his brother, Pete's girlfriend, she was also twelve years younger than him.  It didn't matter that she had a body that he couldn't stop lusting after, he knew that he would never betray his brother like that.  All that changes one night when she involves herself in his undercover operation, and is hurt.  Suddenly, Ariel can't keep her feelings to herself any longer and finally goes after what she wants, which is Sam.  <br />GOING DOWN? (Donna Kauffman)...This was the best of the three.  After a painful divorce, which made her feel like less than a woman, Callie Montgomery has thrown all her energy in her career.  That all changes the night that she escorts Dominic Colbourne out of the building.  When the elevator comes to a halt and she is stuck in the dark with the lucious Dominic, Callie can't help but think that he wouldn't be interested in her in the light of day.  Soon, it doesn't matter, because Dominic is showing her a whole new side to her sexuality.  Dominic has lost his enjoyment in anything but business.  Suddenly, this woman that he has a fleeting impression of is bringing all his scences blaring back to life.  He can't get enough of her in the hours they are stuck together.  And when they get out, he knows he won't be able to give her up.<br />A FAST RIDE (Nancy Warren)...Nell Tennant has come home to Kansas to regroup from the fast paced life she led in L.A.  When an unconsious biker flies into her aunt's yard, she saves his life...and arouses his desire.  Suddenly she has a criminal in her house that doesn't even know his last name.  And one that she lusts after.  She knows that the game will be up when he regains his memory, but for now, Nell decides to take advantage of the man that stirs her blood like none other.  Wes knew that he wasn't a criminal, but he didn't know why he knew that.  All he knew was the only person he could trust is Nell.  The only thing he can't figure out is why he can't remember someone like Nell.  When he does get his memory back, he doesn't know whether to be outraged or flattered.  He does know that he won't give Nell up, though.<br />This is a great anthology that you won't want to miss!	2003-04-29
US	38350586	R28DE3UWKSL780	0821773801	64553459	Midnight Sun	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A good romance, not so good suspense...	Charity Sinclair has been drawn to the Yukon ever since she was a young girl.  Researching as much as possible on the Klondike Gold Rush, Charity finally takes the leap and buys a cabin on the Yukon.  Hiring a seventy-something woman as her guide, Charity embarks on working the land that she has bought, and hopefully finding some gold.  What she didn't count on was her not-so-nice neighbor, McCall Hawkings.  Someone who likes his privacy, him and Charity defintely get off on the wrong foot when she has repairmen in and out of her cabin making repairs.  Even Call's annoyance couldn't stop the desire flowing between the two, and Charity soon finds herself in the middle of an affair that she never wants to end.<br />Call Hawkings enjoys the quiet of the Yukon.  The previous owner of the cabin that Charity bought was an old man who never bothered Call at all.  Now, all his new neighbor did was bother him.  It has been four years since the auto accident in Lake Tahoe that took the lives of his wife and daughter, and Call is just starting to live again.  Now that Charity is in his life it feels like his heart has been jump started, and he knows he doesn't like the feeling.  After being celibate for four years, all Call wanted was a sexual relationship with no strings attached.  Unfortunatley the only person he wanted wasn't into one night stands.<br />Martin keeps the sexual tension running high in Midnight Sun.  The reader will be fascinated by the description of the rugged country that these two come together in.  The suspense was enjoyable, but not enough to keep a suspense lover hooked.  The book starts off slow at first with, in my opinion, too much information on the Yukon and gold panning.  Martin also includes 'inherited memory' in which Charity gets memories from one of her descendants.  She then embarks on the task of finding out which ancestor was on the Yukon in the late 1800's.  The reason I gave it four stars is because it didn't hook me like all her other contemporary novels, or even her historicals.<br />Above all, I would give it a try!	2003-04-27
US	38350586	R2L4QGIIMLPEEU	0671027077	5562192	Far Harbor	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A nice sequel...	Savannah Townsende has just been through a bitter divorce that has broken her pride and her spirit. Leaving the sandy beaches of California as a chef of an exclusive resort, Savannah returns to Coldwater Cove, Washington where her family lives. Upon arrival, Savannah realizes her dream of opening her own bed and breakfast might not be as far fetched as she originally thought. She then decides to make an offer to the owner of the lighthouse that is on the edge of the cove. While she wasn't ready for any emotional or romantic entanglements, Savannah couldn't avoid her feelings for Dan O'Halloran. Soon she was smack in the middle of an affair that she didn't want to end, or to change from no strings to commitment.<br />Dan O'Halloran ran from Savannah after their one and only date when she was still in high school. She made men dangerously think of forever thoughts, and as an eighteen year old, Dan decided he better get far away, and fast. What he didn't count on was seeing Savannah all these years later and still feeling the feelings he did then, but intensified from that of a boy to a man. He knew that she had been burned in her marriage, but he knew that he wouldn't let that stop him from convincing her that they belonged together. <br />Dan and Savannah's story is sweet and will make the reader smile. Ross also brings the reader the story of John Martin, Dan's nephew who was orphaned after a car accident that his parents died in. We also meet Savannah's grandmother Ida Lindstrom who finally realizes that just because she's been a doctor for longer than five decades, doesn't mean that she is immortal. <br />A good read!	2003-04-27
US	38350586	R24R2PT5HWVDZ2	0373484674	156130067	More Than Anything	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fast paced romance...	In More Than Anything, Joan Hohl brings the reader two novels of two people that found each other when all the odds were against them.<br />THORNE'S WAY...Valerie Jordan stopped living the day her fiancee died right before her eyes.  Two weeks before her wedding day, Valerie simply gave up on life.  When her best friend told her that she was returning back to work as the executive secretary for the owner of J.T. Electronics, Val had mixed feelings.  A part of her didn't want to give up the blessed numbness that she had felt for two months, where the other part of her knew that she had to go on living, somehow.  Feeling optimistic, she excepted Janet's offer, but knew that she had made a mistake the first moment that she set eyes on Jonas Thorpe.  Rising up from nothing, Jonas had earned his money through a lot of hard work.  The only thing he cares about besides his company is his daughter, Mary Beth, and his former mother-in-law, Marge.  When the elusive and vunerable Val comes into his life, Jonas knew that he would have her.  His only problem was that he was competing with a ghost, one that Val couldn't let go of.  So he asked her to marry him, offering her the only thing he knew she would want...a baby.  Val then has to deal with the aloofness of the man she is in love with, while Jonas has to deal with jealousy, which he has never felt, and a feelings of incompletness.  When they finally come together, they know that it is worth everything they had to do to get where they were...together.<br />THORPE'S WIFE...Three and a half years later, Val still isn't pregnant.  After her miscarriage, Val desperately wanted a baby.  She soon started to feel incomplete as Jonas's wife.  She loved him as much as always, and knew that he loved her, but she felt like little more than a possesion.  After being estranged for two weeks, Val and Jonas find common ground again, and come together like they were never together before.  Where they didn't talk beyond the mundane, now they bared their souls to each other.  Then Jonas is kidnapped for politcal reasons and Val believes him dead.  After a year of mourning him, Jonas finally returns home where Val has never stopped loving him.  Jonas finally knows what is more important than his company...his family.	2003-04-26
US	38350586	R37091CDZZ9GCW	0373484674	156130067	More Than Anything	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fast paced romance...	In More Than Anything, Joan Hohl brings the reader two novels of two people that found each other when all the odds were against them.<br />THORNE'S WAY...Valerie Jordan stopped living the day her fiancee died right before her eyes.  Two weeks before her wedding day, Valerie simply gave up on life.  When her best friend told her that she was returning back to work as the executive secretary for the owner of J.T. Electronics, Val had mixed feelings.  A part of her didn't want to give up the blessed numbness that she had felt for two months, where the other part of her knew that she had to go on living, somehow.  Feeling optimistic, she excepted Janet's offer, but knew that she had made a mistake the first moment that she set eyes on Jonas Thorpe.  Rising up from nothing, Jonas had earned his money through a lot of hard work.  The only thing he cares about besides his company is his daughter, Mary Beth, and his former mother-in-law, Marge.  When the elusive and vunerable Val comes into his life, Jonas knew that he would have her.  His only problem was that he was competing with a ghost, one that Val couldn't let go of.  So he asked her to marry him, offering her the only thing he knew she would want...a baby.  Val then has to deal with the aloofness of the man she is in love with, while Jonas has to deal with jealousy, which he has never felt, and a feelings of incompletness.  When they finally come together, they know that it is worth everything they had to do to get where they were...together.<br />THORPE'S WIFE...Three and a half years later, Val still isn't pregnant.  After her miscarriage, Val desperately wanted a baby.  She soon started to feel incomplete as Jonas's wife.  She loved him as much as always, and knew that he loved her, but she felt like little more than a possesion.  After being estranged for two weeks, Val and Jonas find common ground again, and come together like they were never together before.  Where they didn't talk beyond the mundane, now they bared their souls to each other.  Then Jonas is kidnapped for politcal reasons and Val believes him dead.  After a year of mourning him, Jonas finally returns home where Val has never stopped loving him.  Jonas finally knows what is more important than his company...his family.	2003-04-26
US	38350586	R3TJ2NM7E8KKMQ	0373821522	807762458	The Baby Bargain	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A sweet story...	Kelly Russell has spent her life in fear since her twelfth birthday when her father first told her she must repent for her sins.  In an act of defiance, Kelly snuck out of the house on New Year's Eve and went to the local tavern.  At eighteen, Kelly was ingnorant of men, but when Dan Remington danced with her, Kelly felt that she had found her soulmate.  Their one night of passion had dire consequences.  When Kelly found out she was pregnant, Dan told her that he would take care of her until the baby came and then raise it on his own.  Over the next few months, Kelly realized that she had to protect her heart from more hurt by shutting herself off from Dan.  Afterall, he didn't want her, only the baby.<br />Dan spent two years in a South American prison. Upon coming home, he learned that the woman he loved was pregnant with his child, but married his best friend.  Hearing his daughter call another man 'Daddy' was the hardest thing that Dan ever had to deal with.  When he met Kelly at the tavern, he felt like he could chase away the emptiness, if only for one night.  What he didn't expect was a chance to have a family, something that he knew that he always wanted.  Although he didn't think he loved Kelly, he soon realized that there were so many things about her that he did love, that he couldn't even name them all.  All he did know was that he had to convince her that he loved her as much as he loved the baby, and that she had to marry him.<br />The Baby Bargain is a sweet story between these two people.  Although very naive, Kelly is a sweet girl that is a lot older than her years because of what she went through.  I read it in less than a day because it's a very fast paced read!	2003-04-26
US	38350586	R3EY6H32PYFQSK	1551669498	660625217	Girls Night (STP - Mira)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A witty romantic read...	This is my first Stef Ann Holm book and I loved it!!<br />Jillene McDermott is a widow after seventeen years of marriage.  With two daughters, age ten and twelve, Jillene is finally realizing how much it takes to keep a family together.  From running her business to making sure the washer is fixed, Jillene is so far in debt that she has to make mac and cheese for dinner every night.  A part of her is unable to mourn her husband.  All she feels when she is going over her budget is a deep seated anger toward him for never telling her how bad their finances really are.  When hometown hero, Vince Tremonti comes back to town, Jillene realizes how much she misses having a man in her home, and her bed.  So she decides to seduce the successful crime writer without falling in love with him.  <br />Vince Tremonti has come home to Blue Heron Beach to escape.  Putting himself in the mind of serial killers has taken its toll on Vince, especially since his latest 'project' has told Vince that he killed twelve women so Vince would write his story.  Afraid of who he's become, Vince returns home to find perspective, which he always is able to do in Blue Heron Beach.  He is broadsided when he meets Jillene who is doing an extrodinary job of running her coffee bar and raising two daughters.  He knows that she represents everything that he's not good enough for.  <br />Girls Night is a book about the relationship between a mother and her two daughters who have overcome the death of their father and are thriving.  The relationship between the three is heartwarming, especially when Faye and Claire decide to run a personal ad for their mom, believing that she deserves some happiness.  It's about a man who believes he'll never be good enough, but discovers on his own that love can overcome any obstacles.<br />The reader will laugh out loud at times in this humorous read that you won't want to miss!	2003-04-24
US	38350586	R3AU9CBGOK8MA6	0373512260	146309961	Somewhere in Time (Timetwist)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A great time travel romance...	Captain Aurora Durant was flying over Iraq when her and her co-pilot Lt. Charlie Everett flew right in the middle of a storm like nothing either of them had seen before.  When lightning strikes into the cockpit and Charlie is knocked unconcious, it is up to Aurora to bring the plane down safely, which she is miraculously able to do.  What she doesn't know is where she is, only that she has a magnificet warrior standing over her talking to her in a language that hadn't been used in over one thousand years.  Soon, Aurora learns that she has extrodinarily crossed time to almost two thousand years before she was born.  When she realizes that she may never be able to go back, Aurora tries to find her niche in 160 A.D.  Aurora never expected to fall in love with the warrior that rescued her whom she soon learns is Lucius Antonius, senior ceturion of the Roman Empire, dubbed Luke by Aurora.  <br />Lucius had never met a more proud woman that Aurora of the gods.  At first believing that Aurora was sent by his enemies to bring down Rome, Lucius is cautious.  As time goes on, Lucius believes the unbelievable story of crossing through time.  For surely no woman of Rome would ever challenge him as much as the firey haired goddess that he desires.  Together, Lucius and Aurora try to compromise his demand for constant obidience and her demand for respect, regardless of who he is.  <br />Somewhere in Time is a sweet story between these two people who love each other enough to overcome the obstacles that they run into.  The only thing that I didn't like was the ending.  I believe that Luke wouldn't have surivied in the twentieth century because he is used to constant obidience from everyone he commands.  He would not know how to survive in this world where he has to take orders from a woman.  Other than that, it is great and I recommend that you pick it up!	2003-04-24
US	38350586	R19Y0NM7XBBHVL	0373099851	640855872	D Is For Dani's Baby  (That Special Woman!/Love Letters) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 985)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fitting end to the 'Love Letters' series....	Dani Stewart has known heartbreak in her life.  Her first was when the boy she loved left town and never returned for her.  The second was when she found she was pregnant and was forced to give up her baby.  And then ten years later her marriage ended after a few short years.  Suddenly Dani realizes that she has nothing in her life that brings her happiness and peace.  Even though it had been eleven years since she gave her son away, Dani had to find out what happened to him.  She didn't want to interfere in his life, all she wanted to do was make sure he was safe and happy.  Then her long lost love comes back to town and everything gets turned upside down.<br />Brand Scarlotti always wanted to prove to the town he grew up in that he was something.  When he set out to California, leaving the girl he loved behind, he knew it was for the best.  Not once did he look back, or regret his decision.  Then a job brings him back to Rimrock and he is suddenly face to face with Dani.  As the days go by, Brand feels the same attraction flare to life and knows that he will settle for nothing less than forever this time around.<br />In D is for Dani's Baby, Brand and Dani come together to rekindle the love and desire that never died, even though they were apart for twelve years.  However, the secret that Dani has kept in her heart for all these years threatens to destroy the fragile love that they have rebuilt.  Secrets are revealed in this final book in the Love Letters that will shock the reader, but are not unexpected.	2003-04-23
US	38350586	R3H1PCAFZRCGWF	0373835701	578188528	Taking the Heat (Silhouette Super Romance Series Extra)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fast paced read....	Gabrielle Hadley is making the only living that is possible in the small town of Florence, Arizona.  With prison inmates accounting for most of the population in the small town, Gabrielle knows that her only job prospect is a corrections officer in one of the many prisons.  On her third day on the job, a fight breaks out between inmates and Gabrielle is horrified when three inmates gang up on one, and the other officers' just stand by.  Jumping in the fray changes the course of Gabrielle life, but she didn't realize how much until days later when the convict she saved from death, escapes.<br />Randall Tucker has been sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife.  Tucker doesn't care about himself, but he does care about his now eight year old son, Landon.  When Gabrille insinuates herself into his small exsistance, Tucker can't help but be resentful, for she represents all that he will never have again.  When he is transfered and finds the oppurtunity to escape, he doesn't hesitate because he made a promise to his son that he intends to keep.<br />Together, Tucker and Gabrielle brave the harsh Arizona desert and go on a mission to find the truth about the night Tucker's wife was murderer.  With Gabby's one year old daughter, Allie, and Landon, they both realize how much they have to lose.<br />This was my first book by this author, and I was very impressed!	2003-04-23
US	38350586	R3LUTS7DDQSUW8	0553576801	441587737	The Perfect Husband: An FBI Profiler Novel	Books	5	104	108	N	N	You will be spellbound....	Theresa Matthews never knew what hit her when she met Officer Jim Beckett.  All she did know was that someone in her life finally loved her.  With no complaints, Theresa did everything Jim asked of her.  She kept a perfect home, cooked meals on time, and gave him a baby daughter that he appeared to love.  Hiding behind his cruel facade, Theresa discovered an evil man with no soul.  A killer that she was a part of stopping.  After two years of running, and a new identity, Tess Williams emerges.  When Jim escapes from prison, Tess find J.T. Dillon, an burntout ex-mercenary whom she talks into training her for one month.  All Tess wants is to be able to protect her daughter from the monster that has sworn to return to kill her.<br />J.T. Dillon has his own demons to fight, and he doesn't need the responsiblity of protecting Tess.  Finding his way through a hellish childhood, J.T. came out scarred, especially since he knew that he didn't protect his younger sister, Marion, from their father.  Now, after two weeks training with Tess, everything with Beckett comes to head and J.T. knows that he will not lose another woman that he loves.<br />The Perfect Husband is an exceptional story about a pyshcopath who is not only sly, but intelligent as well.  Continually escaping authorities, Beckett knows that no one will ever be able to catch him.  Gardner does an extrodinary job of portraying a killer.  The romance that was mixed in was intense and erotic, but didn't take away from the suspense of the story.<br />Pick it up!	2003-04-21
US	38350586	R1PT2WRG2HXT4F	0553578693	89887514	The Next Accident: An FBI Profiler Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A chilling tale....	FBI Special Agent Pierce Quincy has dedicated his life to putting the most gruesome, evil criminals behind bars.  With a degree in physcology and criminology, Quincy walks a fine line between good and evil.  Putting himself in the mind of pyschopaths has split his family apart.  When his daughter Amanda dies in a drunk driving accident, Quincy questions the accident and the instinct that has been with him on every other case, fails him.  Now he has an ex-wife that won't speak to him, and his other daughter who is shutting him out.  The only way he feels he can find closure of his daughter's death is to make sure the accident was really an accident.  <br />Rainie Connor was let go from her job as a police officer.  When Quincy turns up on her doorstep wanting to hire her services as a priviate investigator, she figures that she has nothing to lose.  Except her heart...again.  What started out as a routine investigation quicky turned into something sinister.  Now, not only are Quincy's family in jepordy, but Rainie is as well.<br />Suddenly, Quincy starts recieving calls from various inmates across the country that have a personal vendetta against him.  All make references to Amanda's death and hint towards his daughter, Kimberley's life.  When it turns out that someone is using his identity, Quincy and Rainie finally piece together the madman's plan.  Frame Quincy for the death of his ex-wife, and when he's in prison, go after the last two peope that mean anything to him.  Kimberley and Rainie.<br />The Next Accident is a fast paced book that will chill the reader as the pages go by.  I read this book in one day because I couldn't put it down!	2003-04-21
US	38350586	R1W3ZNL42MOAQI	1551665158	84822626	Perfect Sinner	Books	3	8	8	N	N	A dissapointment...	This is my first Penny Jordan book and the only reason that I'll read another one is because I bought two at the same time.<br />Max Crighton doesn't love anyone but himself.  He doesn't love his wife, nor his two children, Leo and Emma.  He's told his wife, Maddy, several times that the only reason that he married her was because of her money and the connections her family gave him as a lawyer.  That all changes in a trip to Jamacia to look for his uncle David.  While there, Max is brutally attacked and 'sees the light' where his wife and children are concerned.  He even sees everything that is wrong with his relationship with his parents.<br />Maddy Crighton has her love for her children to sustain her.  When Max leaves to Jamacia, she realizes that she never loved the person that Max truly was, just the illusion of him.  When he comes back 'different' Maddy is unsure of whether to trust this extrodinary change that she sees in Max.  It's true that he seems to really love his children, but Maddy isn't sure that she can risk her heart again, no matter how much he is changed.<br />The Perfect Sinner is a totally unrealistic book.  Not even really a romance novel, these characters make me want to scream.  No one as abusive and cruel as Max can 'reform' as quickly as he did and all of a sudden decide that he's loved his wife all along but didn't want to admit it.  Even if he did love her, no one that loves someone treats them like Max treated Maddy.  I could understand why Maddy stayed married to him, but I think that it took her way to long to get a backbone.<br />Overall, I was very dissapointed with this book.	2003-04-20
US	38350586	R2V7S9O0AZWA6D	037320177X	934906127	Love Letters (By Request 3'S)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The McKee legacy will hook you....	In Love Letters, Lisa Jackson brings the reader the first three McKee books which begin right after the 'ruler' of the family, Jonah McKee dies.<br />A IS FOR ALWAYS...Max McKee has never forgotten Skye Donahue.  Even though she left him without a word, taking a $25,000 pay off with her from his father.  It never mattered to Max that Jonah, his father, told him that Skye was all wrong for him.  All he knew is that when he started falling in love, nothing he could do could stop it.  Now Skye has returned to Rimrock after a seven year absence.  Coming back as a doctor for the local clinic, Skye hopes to avoid Max as much as possible.  Though Skye has convinced herself that she doesn't love Max anymore, one look at him is enough to show her how wrong she is.  There is nothing she wants more than to be with Max, but she knows that she can't give him what he wants, namely children.  The story of Max and Skye will warm your heart as Lisa Jackson shows the reader what lengths two people have to go through to finally end up together.<br />B IS FOR BABY...Beth Crandall spent one unforgettable night with Jenner McKee.  When she woke up, he was gone, but he left something with her that means more to her than anything in the world, her son Cody.  When she recieves a letter from Jenner's grandmother telling her that Jenner is paralyzed and needs something to bring him back to life, Beth wants to refuse.  When she reads that his grandmother intends to fight her for custody of Cody if she doesn't, she heads to Rimrock...and finds that her girl's infatuation for Jenner has turned into a woman's love.  Jenner can't believe that he would have forgotten the siren that claims he sired her son, and won't take a dime of his money.  He knows that he has nothing to offer Beth or Cody, but he finds that he can't let them go.  When they almost die in a murder attempt, Jenner realizes that life is too short and he would be a coward to give up on the chance to have a family and love.<br />C ISFOR COWBOY...The murder investigation of Jonah McKee all comes to head in this third book of the McKee series.  When Casey McKee is kidnapped, Jenner calls in a favor from an old friend, Sloan Redhawk.  Whether from his Native American blood, or just good detecting skills, Sloan is able to find Casey and fall for her all in one day.  He has something in his past, however, and won't take a chance on love again.  Sloan is the exact kind of man that she has always imagined herself settled down with.  The problem is that he's out of her life as soon as they find a murderer.  Even though she wants to fight for him, she knows that nothing she can say will convince him to take a chance on love again.  Sloan and Casey come together at a time of danger and make something beautiful out of him.  This book is about overcoming old heartbreaks and not passing up new love.<br />If you can find this book, you should definetly pick it up!	2003-04-19
US	38350586	RP6NXWLB5T07A	0373483392	976299197	Tessa's Child	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A book about hope....	Tessa Wyndham is finally free from her hellish marriage of four years.  The only problem that Tessa has is that she's pregnant with the baby of a man that she despised and feared.  She doesn't know what she wants to do about the baby, but when her husband's parents tell her that they will fight her for custody of the baby, she knows that she would not give an innocent baby to the people who raised such a monster.  So she flees in the middle of the night and finds a safe haven with Keefe Walker, who oddly enough is her sister's ex-husband.  In the brief time that Keefe and her sister, Dana, were married, the two formed a friendship that Tessa had always treasured.<br />Keefe Walker had been raised to believe that family was everything.  Even though he is divorced, he can't turn Tessa away.  Especially when he sees the look of fear in her eyes.  The last time he saw her, she was only eighteen.  Since then, she has turned into a woman that Keefe knows he will do anything to protect.  When her in-laws come to the ranch and threaten to take away Tessa's baby, Keefe does something that feels so natural, he is shocked.  He claims the baby as his own and asks Tessa to marry him.<br />Tessa's Child is about a spousal abuse victim who finally finds a place to make her feel safe.  On Keefe's ranch, she finally is able to sort out her feelings for the baby she resented the whole time she was pregnant.  When she realizes how much she loves the baby and Keefe, she proposes to Keefe that they make their marriage a real one.  Then her sister shows up and everything Tessa wants is put in jepordy.  All she has to do is put all her faith in Keefe, and know that he would never let her down.<br />Great book!	2003-04-18
US	38350586	R2Z6E474MXGBRC	1551665743	118691559	Mackenzie's Mountain	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The beginning of the Mackenzie legacy....	Mary Elizabeth Potter has dedicated her life to teaching young people.  That is why she is so dismayed to learn that the smartest boy in Ruth, Wyoming has dropped out of school.  Braving the elements, Mary sets out to Mackenzie's Mountain to talk some sense into the sixteen year old boy.  The first person she encounters in Wolf Mackenzie, Joe's father.  Mary is astounded by the feelings that Wolf arouses in her, and doesn't know how to deal with them.  She was raised by a spinster aunt who always told her than women do not need men to 'poke' at them, not that any man had ever been attracted to her.  She is bewildered by the fact that Wolf seems to want her, and in her usual straightfoward way, tells him that she wants him.<br />Wolf Mackenzie has always been a sensualist by nature.  He sees beyond the baggy clothes and the horn rimmed glasses.  What he sees in Mary turns him on as no other woman has before.  For her own good, he turns her away.  He has been outcast from the town for his Indian heritage and wrongful rape conviction.  He didn't count on the tart-tounged teacher though.  Her frumpy apperance is decieving to everyone, even him at first.  Soon he learns that nothing gets in Mary's way when she wants something, and she wants Wolf.  <br />Then a series of rape begin which are an eerie reinactment if the rape that Wolf was wrongly accused of.  When the rapist targets Mary, Wolf vows that he will do everything in his power to protect her.  Miracuously, the town rallies around Wolf in his search for the person that is trying to frame him.  Mackenzie's Mountain is a book about prejudice and love.  Overcoming the odds, Mary and Wolf come together in a book that will warm your heart, at the same time as making you laugh.  Howard also introduces the reader to Joe, who you will fall in love with.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-04-17
US	38350586	RN94MCR37X5DE	0449150623	740512510	Garden of Dreams	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A romantic delight...	No matter what had ever been going on in JD Marshall's life, he always had his work to fall back on.  Now, as he leads the race to bring online banking to consumers, someone is trying to destroy him.  He knew it was a mistake the minute his uncle Harry told him who his 'investors' were.  Based in Las Vegas, his finance backers were heavily involved in the LV Mafia.  When a break in occurs at his Research and Development building, JD takes all the data and the fifteen year old son he never knew he had, and goes on the run.<br />Nina Toon was raised by her spinster aunt to believe that no woman was better with a man.  Nina went through life believing it, and the older she got, the more she believed it.  When JD and his son Jackie fall into her life, Nina doesn't know what to make of it.  A school teacher who is on summer vacation, Nina doesn't know how to react when JD offers to help her make her dream of having a botanical garden and reality, if he lets her rent a bedroom of the farmhouse.  Knowing that her aunt Hattie would heartily dissaprove, Nina nevertheless accepts JD's offer.  She did not know how to deal with her body's reaction to JD.  Whenever he is in the proximity of her, she feels like her body short circuits.<br />Never knowing the importance of family, JD only knows that he wants Nina in his bed.  He doesn't know where to go from there, nor does he understand his feelings of contentment out of bed with her.  Nina loses her arrogance about thinking she doesn't need men in her life as the story unfolds.  Together they find their way to the Garden of Dreams after overcoming many obstacles.	2003-04-16
US	38350586	R1TX95FWD0ZOIA	044661114X	217054040	Lone Rider	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wild ride....	The day Tess Marsh ran out of gas on a deserted highway in rural Montana, was the day that her life changed forever.  Dallas Haynes came roaring in, literally, on his Harley.  When the rest of the gang came riding up behind him, Dallas claimed her for his own, to protect her.  As a jewlery designer, Tess had a pretty mundane life.  That all changed when Dallas abducted her for her own safety.  Not knowing if she can trust him, Tess starts plotting her escape from the gang.  When brought to their leader, Tess decides that Dallas is the only one she can trust.  <br />Dallas Haynes aka Grey Thomas has spent the last two years of his life undercover.  What was originally thought to be a three month assingment turns into something bigger when the FBI realizes they have a chance to bring down one of the biggest drug lords in South America.  With only yards to the finish line, Grey risks it all to keep Tess safe.  There was something about her from the moment he saw her stranded that called out to him.  He was not only attrached to her body and her model looks, but to her pride and her sweetness.  He vows to himself that when everything goes down, he will find a way to tie Tess to him for the rest of her life.<br />The chance comes sooner than Grey thinks.  When two of the gang escape from prison, Grey takes Tess and goes on the run.  He knows that there is a leak somewhere in his office and until it is uncovered, Grey promises Tess that he will protect her and the baby they made together.  Meanwhile, Tess is trying to reconcile her feelings for Grey.  She doesn't know if she really loves him, or if she loves his hero complex since he saved her life more than once.<br />Lone Rider is a story of finding love in an impossible situation.  Tess and Grey turn to each other in a time of need and danger.  Together they beat the odds, protecting themselves and each other and finding love.	2003-04-16
US	38350586	R22MGP1VEOBTDS	0449150623	740512510	Garden of Dreams	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A romantic delight...	No matter what had ever been going on in JD Marshall's life, he always had his work to fall back on.  Now, as he leads the race to bring online banking to consumers, someone is trying to destroy him.  He knew it was a mistake the minute his uncle Harry told him who his 'investors' were.  Based in Las Vegas, his finance backers were heavily involved in the LV Mafia.  When a break in occurs at his Research and Development building, JD takes all the data and the fifteen year old son he never knew he had, and goes on the run.<br />Nina Toon was raised by her spinster aunt to believe that no woman was better with a man.  Nina went through life believing it, and the older she got, the more she believed it.  When JD and his son Jackie fall into her life, Nina doesn't know what to make of it.  A school teacher who is on summer vacation, Nina doesn't know how to react when JD offers to help her make her dream of having a botanical garden and reality, if he lets her rent a bedroom of the farmhouse.  Knowing that her aunt Hattie would heartily dissaprove, Nina nevertheless accepts JD's offer.  She did not know how to deal with her body's reaction to JD.  Whenever he is in the proximity of her, she feels like her body short circuits.<br />Never knowing the importance of family, JD only knows that he wants Nina in his bed.  He doesn't know where to go from there, nor does he understand his feelings of contentment out of bed with her.  Nina loses her arrogance about thinking she doesn't need men in her life as the story unfolds.  Together they find their way to the Garden of Dreams after overcoming many obstacles.	2003-04-16
US	38350586	R3QEHR4VXSIH3P	1551665700	107974389	Whiskey Island	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Irish legacy of secrets and love....	Megan Donaghue has always been the caretaker of her family.  Running the family salaon Whiskey Island, Megan will do anything for her two sisters, Casey and Peggy.  They show up unexpectedly one night, with a little girl in tow and a man that saved their lives from two carjackers.  Megan feels herself being drawn to the man that was instrument in saving their lives.  However, the stranger insists that someone else was out there and it was him who is the real hero.  Megan is very afraid that she knows who the 'real hero' was, but he hasn't been her hero since she was fourteen years old and abandoned her and her sisters to a fate unknown.  As the weeks go by, and family secrets are revealed, Megan tries to find her way through a maze of feelings.  Feelings for her father and for Niccolo, whom she feels more for that she ever thought possible, or that she ever wanted to.<br />Niccolo Andreani just happened to be in the right place at the right time to lend a hand to three people in trouble.  The course of his life changed yet again from the moment he set foot in Whiskey Island.  After a life altering decision of renouncing the priesthood, Nick realized that he never felt the call from God, he wanted to be God because he wanted his family to be proud of him.  After more than a decade of celibacy, Nick is unprepared for the desire that blindsides him whenever he is near Megan.  Their fragile relationship is almost destroyed when Nick refuses to give up the search for whom he now knows is her father.  <br />Emilie Richards unveils secrets of the Irish Donaghue's while giving the reader a history lesson on Irish immigrants.  She does this thoroughly, without boring the reader.  She takes the reader back to the beginning generation of the Donaghue's and how and why they are where they are today.  She brings together two people that are perfect for each other, but feel afraid of the strong feelings they envoke in each other.  One of the most emotional parts of this book wasthe journal written by Father Patrick McSweeny in the late ninteen century.  I was surprised, but not shocked by the ending.  It was a very satisfying read!	2003-04-13
US	38350586	R27GUYZN2BK0OQ	1551664712	91185613	Full Circle	Books	3	1	1	N	N	1/2* A bit dissapointed....	After being suspended from her job as a trauma specialist at St. Luke's hospital in Boston, Kate Madison returns home to Bayou Blanc.  Upon arrival, Kate learns that her mother has had cancer for ten months and is on a steady decline.  Heartsick, Kate accpets a position in the small town practice from the man that has been like a father to her since she was six years old and lost her real father.  She didn't count on seeing Sam Delacourt, whom she had a passionate affair five years before, without knowing he was married and had a child.<br />Sam Delacout has harbored a resentment of Kate for five years.  Believing, incorrectly, that Kate was the person that told his wife of their affair, Sam had always blamed her for his wife's suicide attempt.  He finds it easier to let go of his resentment that he thought, and before long Sam knows that he will not let her go.<br />Then there is a murder in this sleepy bayou town.  Kate's childhood best friend's husband turned up murdered, when it initially looked like a suicide.  For reasons that Kate doesn't know, she is especially sensitive to cases involving children and battered wives, which isn't good for her as a physician.  When Young first introduced us to Amber Russo, Kate's friend from childhood, you felt sorry for her.  She seemed to be the classic case of a battered wife who forgave her husband because she loved him.  The reader soon found out what a twisted woman that Amber really was.  She didn't want out of the marriage, as it would have been bad for her public image, which would have ruined her career.  She purposely set out to use a fifteen year old boy, who ended up having physciatric (sp?) problems.  She was selfish and manipulative and I really couldn't stand her.  Then there was Nick Santana, who had loved Amber since she was fifteen.  Believing that they finally had a chance, Nick wonders at his feelings, which don't seem to be there.  Young left the reader hanging about the feelings between Nick and OfficerPamela LaRue, which she built up and then never went back to.<br />I've read a few of Karen Young's books, and this was not one of the better ones.	2003-04-12
US	38350586	R1WGL8AU1DGUII	0451207947	246879735	Only by Your Touch	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A poignant tale that will hook you from page one....	Chloe Evans has been to hell and back and has relocated with her son, Jeremy, to Jack Pine, Oregon.  Leaving her husband, whom, after an accident turned into an abusive man she didn't recognize, Chloe wanted the bring Jeremey the security of being safe.  She felt that life in a small town would be exactly what Jeremey needed.  When her son begs her for a puppy, Chloe doesn't have to heart to turn him down.  When Jeremy's puppy gets sick and the vet it unwilling to treat him without the money up front, Jeremy takes Rowdy to the town outcast, Ben Longtree who is a vet, but unable to practice.  Soon, Chloe finds herself entangled in Ben's enchanting world on Cinnamon Ridge.  With a wolf and a mountain lion for pets, Chloe has never met anyone like Ben, and for a reason she can't begin to define, she feels safe in his presence and trust him with her son's safety.<br />Ben Longtree loves the solitude of Cinnamon Ridge.  When it is envaded by a six year old boy, Ben tries to turn him away.  His annoyance quickly turns acceptance and he soon finds himself impressed by the young boy who would stand up to who people in town believe is a cold-blooded murderer.  Ben's world shifts when Chloe and Jeremy start spending more time in the ridge and Ben experiences the magic of love.  He is wary, however, for there is more than one person who would happily destroy his life.  Always having a gift with animals, Ben can't turn away the wounded that turn up on his property.  From owls to skunks to bears, Ben will not turn one animal away, even if it means spending the rest of his life in jail.  The more he gets to know Chloe, and the more he feels himself falling in love, the more he wants to tell her all his secrets.  There is evil lurking though, evil that both Ben and Chloe underestimated.<br />Catherine Anderson weaves an emotional read in Only by Your Touch.  Reading about Chloe learning to trust and letting go of her fear of men and Ben learning to trust in love again will almosthave you in tears.  Even Jermey's remarkable recovery will pull your heartstrings.  You won't regret reading this book!	2003-04-11
US	38350586	R10IEKCXK5CL3U	0399149848	93143308	Birthright (Roberts, Nora)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Vintage Roberts....	Archaeologist Callie Dunbrook has always been fascinated with the past, which is one of the things that makes her one of the best in her profession.  When she is called to Antietam Creek, Maryland where a construction crew has found a five thousand year old human skull, she has no idea the turn her life is going to take.  Once on site, she gets a visit from Suzanne Cullen, who saw her on the news and is convinced that she is the daughter that was taken from her when she was three months old.  Callie is first incredulous and then, when it starts to seem like the truth, devestated.  When she feels herself falling apart, she not only has her work to retreat to, but she also has Jake, her ex-husband, whom she never stopped loving.  <br />Anthropologist Jacob Graystone has been called to Antietam Creek, which gives him not only the chance to do the job that he loves, but to win Callie back.  When Callie learns the secret that has her world crashing down around her, Jake vows that he will be there for her to lean on, and finally, to trust.  Together, Jake and Callie start to unravel the mystery behind Callie's kidnapping when she was an infant.  The tale that Roberts' has woven will horrify the reader as it is so easy to imagine it being reality. <br />Roberts keeps the reader hooked with the danger, sexual tension, and emotion, not only between these two people, but the secondary characters as well.  Callie is the heroine that the reader loves to read about, someone who is strong and feels comfortable in her own skin.  Jake is the hero that we all want to know, an intensely dangerous man who just oozes sex appeal.  Roberts definitely has a hit in Birthright!	2003-04-11
US	38350586	R12QX20736TNSR	0671786113	486399296	Fair Haven	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A romantic tale....	As a relief doctor, Erin O'Halloran has seen things that most people only see in their nightmares.  When her best friend and mentor calls from Ireland and tells her that he is ill, Erin flies over to find something to save him.  She is ill prepared for the magic of Ireland, nor for Michael Joyce, whom she is drawn to like she has been drawn to no other man.  <br />Michael Joyce has gone into seclusion at his home.  Away from prying eyes and gossipy mouths, Michael is content with his solitary life.  When the mother of one of his ex-lovers shows up with an eight year old girl in tow, Michael sees is solitary exsistance dissolving as if it never exsisted.  When he first sees the lovely Dr. O'Halloran, Michael vows to stay away from her, as his life has enough complications.<br />Ross brings the reader to the magic of Ireland, again, where anything is possible, from having guardian angels to talking with people that have passed away.  She brings together Erin and Michael in an unbelieveable story that she makes the reader believe.  The reader will also love Shea, Michael's daughter, from the first page she graces.  I can't wait until Ross's next book about Ireland comes out!	2003-04-10
US	38350586	R3P5G1H7DMBDHC	0373201699	655203322	Heat of the Night	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An instensely emotional read...	In Heat of the Night, Karen Young delivers three emotional books about five children and the parents that will do anything for them.  <br />DEBT OF LOVE...Alexandra Tate has a special place in her heart for Eric and Erin, twins, who's father is the man that she was engaged to eighteen years ago.  In a despicable act of violence, Eric is gunned down outside their elementary school.  Alex feels responsible because if she wouldn't have held them after class, Eric wouldn't be paralyzed from the neck down.  Tyler Madison has closed himself off emotionally, except from his sister and his niece and nephew.  When he meets Alex, he fights the emotion that he feels, for he can't risk his heart again.  Debt of Love is an emotional story about the extrodinary recovery of Eric, the crumbling marriage of Eric and Erin's parents, and last, the new love of Alex and Tyler.<br />TOUCH THE DAWN...Mitchell St. Cyr hasn't been the best father.  When he learns that his ex-wife's new husband is a pedophile, taking pictures of his children, he tries to go through the system to get them out of his ex-wife's house.  Twice that fails, and Mitch makes a drastic move.  He kidnaps his own children.  On the run for months, the three St. Cyr's end up in Flordia, where they finally find a haven.  When Mitch first finds that the juvenile officer is the daughter of their hosts, his first urge is to run.  He finds he can't though, and he finds himself falling for Jacky.  Jacky Kendall has her own demons to fight, and Mitch brings them all rushing back to life.  When she finds herself falling in love with Russell and Maggie, along with Mitch, Jacky vows to do anything to help Mitch keep his children safe, even outside the law.<br />THE SILENCE OF MIDNIGHT...This is the best story of the three.  Jake and Rachel McAdams have been married for eighteen years.  When their six year old son, Scotty, is kidnapped, Jake feels he has failed Rachel and Scotty, and is unable to come to terms with his failure.  When the result of his infidelity nearly fifteen years ago shows up, it nearly destroys their already shaky marriage.  Rachel is finally inserting her independence, trying to show Jake that she can be more than a wife and mother.  When Michael shows up, Rachel is suddenly faced with proof of his affair.  Then, the Jake and Rachel pull together, to find both their sons and save the marriage that means so much to both of them.<br />Happy reading!	2003-04-08
US	38350586	R332OG4ZZTQ3HW	038081918X	65675664	Getting Lucky (Marine, Book 2)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A witty romantic read....	Master Sargent Zach Taylor has come home on leave to find a blond bombshell parked in his kitchen.  He is convinced that she is just another person that has insinuated herself in his sister's life for her money.  When he learns that she is not what she seems, it's too late to keep his distance and Zach finds himself falling hard and fast for the decadent Lily.  When she insists on accompanying him to Washington to keep his sister from making the mistake of marrying a gold digger, he grudingly agrees to let her go along.<br />Lily Morrisette has always had a thing for shoes and make up.  She is finally closer than ever to her dream of opening up her own resturant, when Zach blows into her life, literally.  She has never met someone with so much sex appeal, nor anyone that is so stereotypical.  When people get a good look at her, they automatically associate her with 'dumb blond'.  Little do they know that she's far from dumb, and it's more than her looks that ensnare Zach.  When she tells him she going with him to save him from making a big mistake concerning his sister, she had no idea how the trip would end.<br />Arriving on the San Juan Islands, Zach and Lily find his sister's financee's family in an uproar.  They have both been kidnapped.  The book goes on through the tale of the kidnapping, with the secondary characters of Jessica and Christopher, which was sweet.  This is typical Andersen, with hot passion and humor mixed together, and you will not want to miss it!	2003-04-07
US	38350586	RI8J75G7ZU3PL	1551662744	779263354	White Lies	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Don't miss it!!	Jay Granger has worked hard to build a life of stability in the five years since her divorce.  She has finally achieved what she has sought and was never able to find with her ex-husband Steve.  When she is fired from the investement banking firm she has worked so hard for, Jay realizes that her life is empty.  So when two men claiming to be FBI agents show up at her door asking her to identify a man that they believe is her husband, she decides that it's something she has to do.  Even if she no longer loves Steve, they didn't part on bad terms and she will do whatever she can to help him recover.<br />It was Jay's voice that pulled him out of the darkness.  From the moment he heard her talking to him, he fought his way to conciousness.  She made him feel safe and he knew instinctively that he could trust her.  He doesn't have any memory of her though, nor of any time before the day he woke up in the military hospital.  Jay became the one constant in his painful recovery and he knew that he would never let her go.  <br />White Lies is a book that has it all.  Romance and danger, love and passion.  Howard brings the reader brief glimpses of Kell Sabin from Diamond Bay in this book also.  The love between the two is fierce and passionate.  You won't be able to put this book down until you finish it.	2003-04-06
US	38350586	RFCVBNDB8T4MQ	0373201648	716028398	Summer Dreams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A good book to curl up with....	Dallas Schulze brings the reader three romances in one book.  You will enjoy this book of love and discovery.<br />OF DREAMS AND MAGIC...Jack Ryan has felt dissatisfied for sometime.  From his career in the family bank to his engagement to a woman that would make the perfect banker's wife, Jack can not put aside his feeling of disquiet.  When he meets Sheri, Jack feels something he has never felt before, but will not admit it, because his life is going along just how everyone expects.  Sheri is someone that always wants to make people around her happy.  When she meets Jack when he comes to the cabin where she had been caring for his uncle for the last three years of his life, Sheri can't describe the feelings she has for him.  All she knows is that she's falling fast and hard.  <br />THE MORNING AFTER...Lacey Newton woke up on the morning after her thirtieth birthday to find herself in bed with a man and a marriage certificate that she didn't remember signing.  When Cameron suggests that they give their marriage a try, she figures she has nothing to lose.  As the weeks go by, she realizes that she has more to lose than she thought and starts to make a hasty retreat.  Cameron McCleary has wanted to have a family, but could never imagine a woman that he would want to spend the rest of his life with.  When he's with Lacey, he feels a contentment that doesn't make sense to him, since she was a virtual stranger the day before they were married.  When Lacey starts running scared, Cam will do anything to show her that they can make their marriage work.<br />A SUMMER TO COME HOME...Jake Quincannon has come home to Riverbend after a twenty year absence.  He comes home to find closure to the first nineteen years of his life, but finds more than he expects to find.  He has a hard time reconciling Paige Cudahy with his ex-girlfriend's plump little sister, but the proof is right in front of his eyes.  A summer affair is all he has to offer, unless Paige can change his mind.  Paige has always had a crush on Jake, and she finally has the chance to prove to him that he is worthy of having love, something that he hasn't had enough of in his life.  It takes more than she thought though, especially when a secret comes to light that has stayed buried for twenty years.<br />Happy reading!	2003-04-06
US	38350586	R6677CZSOQH9U	0373201753	473601845	Angel In Your Eyes (By Request 3'S)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Three good reads in one book....	In Angel in your Eyes, Dallas Schulze brings the reader three seperate stories of heronines that the reader will love and the heroes that love them.<br />Everything but Marriage is the first, and the best in my opinion, read of these three romances.  Devlin Russell was wrongly accused of murder and sentenced to twenty years in prison.  After serving eight years, a deathbed confession of man who was the real murderer freed Devlin, with a huge chip on his shoulder.  When Annalise St. John came into his life, he was determined not to give any of himself to her other than his body.  Annalise had her own secrets to hide and sorrows to deal with and in this book, these two come together to heal each other.<br />In Charity's Angel, Charity Williams feels like there will be no men in her life that will look at her other than a mothering figure or a big sister.  It seems like all they want to do is pour their troubles out to her, even on their dates!  She has always admired Gabriel London when he came into the store where she worked, but she knew she would never have the courage to ask him out.  Her life changes when she finds herself shot after an attempted burglary at the jewlery store she works at.  Suddely she is moving in with Gabriel and powerless to stop her feelings for him.  Gabe can't get rid of the guilt that he feels for shooting Charity by mistake.  Letting her recover at his house is the least he can do.  Then their attraction gets too powerful to deny and Gabe is helpless to deny anything.  This is a book about courage and the power of believing in yourself.<br />Angel and the Bad Man is the third and final romance.  One night after getting off work at a local medical clinic, Angie Brady finds herself in a sticky situation with four of the town's biggest punks.  Then Travis Morgan pulls up on his motorcycle and saves her from probable rape.  She finds herself falling for the brooding loner and vows that she will uncover the secrets in his eyes.  Travis Morganhas come back to Salem to right a wrong he did so long ago.  Almost no one knows his real reason for coming back.  The last thing he needs is involvement with a cop's sister, but he can't help fall for Angie's big blue eyes.  Eyes that make him promises that he thought he's forgotten all about.  <br />These three romances are heartwarming and you won't regret spending the time with this book!	2003-04-04
US	38350586	R1AJNYL6NPG5FK	1551666162	30092272	Butterfly (Mira)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	A fast read....	China Brown has known nothing but heartache and lonliness in her life.  She vows that will change as soon as she has the baby that she loves so desperatley.  For she has made a promise that her baby will have the life that she never did.  Then one night she finds herself out on the street when the father of her baby takes off with all her money.  It was that night that destroyed her dreams and she has vowed revenge.  With the help of Ben English, she begins to heal and lets Ben find his way to her heart.<br />Bennett English is drawn to China from the first moment that he saw her.  There is something beatiful and rare that he sees when he looks at her.  He finds himself falling in love before she even wakes from her coma and when she wakes and looks into his eyes, he knows he is lost.  The only thing standing in the way of their happiness is a killer.<br />Butterfly is an enjoyable book that is more romance than suspense.  The killers identity was a surprise to me, but I enjoyed this book and will look for other books by this author.	2003-04-03
US	38350586	R319870A1V6XE7	0821772155	617153706	The Fifth Victim	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A book that will hold you spellbound....	There is a killer on the loose in Cherokee Pointe, Tennessee.  He goes from place to place sacraficing his victims in groups of five.  The fifth victim always has a sixth sense, from empathy to telepathy.  This time he has found the perfect fifth victim, one that will give him the ultimate power.<br />Genny Madoc has inherited 'The Sight' from her grandmother.  When the first murder occurs, she sees it in her dreams and is horrified by what she has seen.  When Dallas Sloan comes to Cherokee Pointe, she knows that he is the one that her heart and soul has been looking for.  The only problem is that Dallas is not a believer in the unexplained and he has come to Cherokee Pointe to catch the killer that sacraficed his niece.<br />Dallas Sloan has never met anyone like Genny Madoc.  From the first moment he lays eyes on her, he is enchanted.  He is wary however, for Genny seems to expect more than he can give.  He has never been a believer in what Genny claims she can see, but as time goes on, he finds himself believing in her, for there is no way that she can see what she sees without having 'The Sight'. When they uncover the similarities between all the fifth victim's, he is terrified that she will be taken from him.<br />Genny and Dallas, along with secondary characters that you will fall in love with, with hold you spellbound in the book that has the right amount of romance and suspense combined.  You won't be dissapointed in this book!<br />Happy reading!!	2003-04-03
US	38350586	RA9FDF4KR6H01	0446356611	303496388	Rage of Angels	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A bit dissapointed....	Jennifer Parker has finally accomplished what she has worked her whole life for, being a lawyer.  Her dreams come crashing down on her first day at trial and her first day on the job and she is now facing jail and disbarrment.  The story that follows is of Jennifer overcoming obstacles and prevailing.  I don't believe that as popular as she was that no one would have known about her son.<br />I was so dissapointed with the ending that I almost cried.  It was the biggest letdown that I have had in a book and I have read some books that have bad endings.  That is why I had to give this book three stars.	2003-03-30
US	38350586	R2UU0314IOKBTS	0373272839	576421781	Letters to Kelly (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1213) (Harlequin Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A fast paced read....	Jax Winchester has survived two years in a South American prison to come home and find the woman that he has loved since she was sixteen married to another man.  Heartbroken and broken, Jax retreats to his imaginary world of writing where he has relationships and conversations with his characters.  Jax is an extremely likable hero who will do anything to convince Kelly that he loves her and has never stopped loving her.  It takes a lot more convincing than he orignially thought.<br />Kelly O'Brien has loved and lost with T. Jackson.  Not knowing about his time spent in prison, Kelly believes that Jax deserted her when he was tired of her.  No matter what Jax tells her, she absolutley will not believe that he loves her and wants to marry her.<br />Letters to Kelly is an extremley emotional book.  It is different from Brockmann's other books, but she still gets the emotion across to readers.  Some of the letters from Jax to Kelly made me want to cry, they were so sad.  <br />A very good read!	2003-03-28
US	38350586	R3QBV1HRW5M6A6	0425188841	930339530	Trust In Me	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Shay does it again....	The Outlaws consisted of six rebellous teenagers whom were best friends.  Linc Grayson, the leader was fearless.  He didn't fear anything from getting caught or the authorities.  Margo was the girl he had loved since she was fourteen, who's mom constanly made her ask forgiveness from God for her sins.  Beth Grayson just followed along with her brother since he was the only constant in her life, until she fell in love.  Danny was the boy Beth had loved since she was thirteen, who rebelled from his parents who expected perfection from him.  Joe Murphy just wanted to escape his abusive father and found just who could help him forget.  Annie had loved Joe since she was a teenager and would do anything for him.  Now it is fifteen years later, and everything has changed, except the friendship between the spectacular people.<br />Linc has turned to God and in the process lost Margo who hasn't believed in God since she was ten and she prayed for Him to save her when she was locked in the basement with rats.  Linc has repeatedly tried to explain to her that his God is different from her mother's, but Margo won't believe any of it.  On the fast track up the executive ladder at her company, the last thing she wants to do is go home to Glen Oak and be a ministers wife.  Even if she will always love him.<br />Beth is now a widow with a fifteen year old son with a chip the size of Texas on his shoulder.  It all blows up when Tucker Quaid, the man involved in the accident that resulted in Danny's death, comes back to town to resurect the racing industry.  Her son Ron has always blamed Tucker and nothing she can do can change it.  On top of that, she has to deal with her feelings for Tucker, which are far from platonic.  Tucker on the other hand feels guilt that won't go away.  For robbing Ron of his father, and for taking the husband of the woman he's fallen in love with.<br />The most touching part of this story is that of Joe and Annie.  Joe has returned after six years of intense therapy for reformed batteres.  He can finally look himself in the eye and believe that he has the right to be a part of the lives of his two children, one of whom he had no idea exsisted.  Annie on the other hand can't look past the ugliness of the years her and Joe were married.  When she finally realizes that people can change if they desire, she finds the way to forgiveness.<br />Kathry Shay delievers a heartwrenching and extremley emotional read in Trust in Me.  These people are all battling with demons from their past and are trying to find out if love will prevail.  It proves that people can change and friendship will last through the boundries of time.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-03-25
US	38350586	R2H85UF66QBLDA	1551660423	368207030	Red	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An intensely emotional read....	Becky Lynn Lee fled Bend, Mississippi the night that her life was changed forever.  She was betrayed by all the people that she loved, and she knew that it would never change as long as she stayed in Bend.  So she took off for California.  With the bright lights and the even brighter stars.  There, Becky Lynn met Jack Gallager who changed the course of her life.  For she finally found someone who believed in her talent and who she believed actually thought she was someone.  She felt that Jack looked beyond her 'white trash' label.  When she was betrayed by him, she went to his enemy in a moment of rage, looking for a way to pay him back.  Little did she know that she would also love Jack's brother Carlos.<br />Jack Gallager has been on a mission since he was eight years old and rejected by his father.  He will be better than his father and his brother in the world of fashion photography.  From the moment he bought his first camera at sixteen, Jack has worked to prove himself worthy of his father's love and a better photographer than his brother.  He didn't know that his crusade would cost him the woman he loved or that he would regret it as much as he did.<br />Red is a book that is intensely emotional with characters that all have immense emotional baggage and are trying to deal with it.  If you want a book that you will get lost in, try Red and you won't be dissapointed.	2003-03-23
US	38350586	R66CBSVT782RI	1551667525	611202174	Confessions	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A great romantic suspense....	Mariah Swann has come home to Arizona after a nearly fifteen year absence. Her family was ripped apart when she was a teenager for reasons she and her sister, Laura, were never clear on.  Wanting to get out from her father's thumb, she decides to head to Hollywood where she is extremley successful.  First as an actress, then as a writer, Mariah feels she can finally come home to Arizona in triumph.  All she wants to do is mend her relationship with the sister she has always loved.  When she gets home and finds that Laura was murdered, she vows that she will not shed one tear until her sisters murderer is brought to justice.  Nothing will stop her from finding who killed her sister, not even Sherriff Trace Callahan.<br />Trace Callahan was a big city cop turned small town Sherriff. The only crimes that he has had to deal with since becoming Sherriff were noise disturbances and small domestic disbutes.  He suddenly finds himself heading the investigation of the murder of a Senator's wife and dealing with a head strong blonde that he can't get out of his head.  He feels that he is being very chivalrous letting Mariah tag along during his investigation.  He soon learns that Mariah doesn't tag along with any one.  <br />You can't go wrong in Ross's novel of desire and murder. There are a lot of secrets in this small Arizona town, secrets that Trace and Mariah work together to uncover.	2003-03-22
US	38350586	ROIS6XHYTYCU9	1551669633	677997681	Cause For Alarm	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A chilling tale....	Kate Ryan has it all, a husband that she adores, a business that is thriving, and her art which she loves.  The only thing that is missing from her picture perfect life is a baby.  When her and her husband, Richard, learn that he is sterile, Kate decides to move on and make the best of their life with no baby in the picture.  After all, she believes that it's better knowing that it's not possible than hoping each month that she'll end up pregnant.  Then her husband surprises her with their enrollment in the local adoption agency which stuns and makes her happier than she thought she would be.  Finally her life will be complete.  <br />Richard Ryan has always gotten whatever he desired in life.  When he wanted Kate, he got her.  No matter how many times he strayed in college, he always was able to win her back.  When he realized that he would lose her if he kept breaking up with her and coming back, he made a commitment to her.  He's always loved Kate and he never believed that the reason he wanted her was because his best friend was in love with her too.  When he learns that he is sterile, he feels like less than a man and is more than happy to consider adopting.  However, that is before his life is taken over by a six pound, drooling, crying bundle of baby.  Suddenly he feels cast aside from his own wife and he turns to someone that makes him feel young again.<br />Julianna Starr fell in love with Richard and Kate when she saw their profile through the adoption agency.  When she reads what Richard wrote, she is certain that they are soulmates and will do anything to prove that to him.  She knows it's not going to be easy, after all, Richard loves Kate.  So she starts stalking Kate.  Following her at a distance, Julianna turns herself into a replica of Kate, following her gestures, her walk, her way of dressing, even her makeup.  Then she finds a way to instigate herself in to Richard's life.  She thinks it's only fair that since she gave Kate her baby, Kate will give Julianna her husband.  She didn't count on the manevolent force that would follow her to the ends of the earth to purify her and bring out the very innocence that he was drawn to when he first saw her as a child.<br />Luke Dallas has loved Kate since their days at Tulane.  When he finally thought he had her, Richard came tearing back in the scene and took her away again.  He's tried to kid himself all these years that it hasn't effected him, but he knows different.  Kate is the only woman that he will ever love and the only woman he can never have.  When she comes to him for help with her daughter, Luke doesn't have the heart to turn her away.  He's waited for her for ten years and he will wait for her for ten more.<br />John Powers in stalking Kate, Richard, Julianna, and Luke.  All the people that are now apart of his little girl's life will pay.  Julianna has been his 'special' girl since she was eleven years old and no one will ever take her away from him.  So one by one he starts eliminating the very people that bring out the wicked part of her.  He believes that there is still that innocence that touched a part of him that he thought was long dead.<br />Cause for Alarm was a surprise for me.  I didn't expect it to be as good as it was, with as many conflicts between all the characters.  John sickened me with his unnatural feelings for Julianna.  Richard made me so angry with what he did though I was sad how he came to his ending.  I really wish that he would have been able to lose Kate at the end while he was still alive to see it.  If you like the easy going romances, this book would not be for you!	2003-03-22
US	38350586	R2Y1HU5F3FOI35	0451192524	389362721	Ritual Sins	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dark erotism mixed with deadly suspense....	Rachel Connery has one mission left in her life.  To bring Luke Bardell and his cult of followers down.  After her mother died, Rachel learned that her mother had changed her will, leaving The Foundation of Being her inheritance of twelve million dollars.  When she thinks of what her mother did, all she feels is a rage that has finally found it's outlet.  When she contested the will and lost, Rachel decides a trip to The Foundation of Being will have to suffice.  Learning everything about the Foundation and it's followers is the only way to expose it for the cult it is.  She didn't count on her deadly attraction to Luke.  She also didn't count on uncovering a conspiricy that she least expected.<br />Luke Bardell came from nothing and make himself into something.  He feels an unwanted attraction to Rachel Connery.  She wasn't at all like his usual type of woman.  She was too skinny, too pale, too sour.  Until he realized how much passion that she had locked inside.  And he knew that he would be the one to bring it out.  Luke decided that he would make her crave him and then leave her, as punishment for daring to come up against him.  Then he felt as pulled to her as she felt to him and wanted nothing more than to spend the rest of his life in bed with her.<br />Ritual Sins is a book about dangerous desire and even more dangerous love.  With danger lurking around every corner and desire pulsing with every breath that it taken, Luke and Rachel come together in a storm that fairly crackles with electricity.  All they have to do is find a way out of the Foundation alive.	2003-03-22
US	38350586	RCNIQ2B7US0MD	0821769367	520880156	The Night Before	Books	5	26	26	N	N	You will be shocked in this tale of murder and romance....	Caitlyn Montgomery has woken to find blood everywhere.  On her sheets, on her walls, and all over herself.  The only problem is that she doesn't know how it got there.  Except for the cuts on her arms, there is no way that the amount of blood in her bedroom could have come from her.  After cleaning everything up as best she can, Caitlyn gets a visit from the police, telling her it looks as if her estranged husband has commited suicide.  Caitlyn is torn, as it looks like she was involved, but she can't remember anything.  A woman that has always had mental problems, Caitlyn really loses it after her three year old daughter suddenly died after being hospitalized with a virus.  Heartbroken over her daughter, she questions herself as a mother when her husband decides to sue her for the wrongful death of her daughter.  The only person she can turn to besides her therapist is her twin sister, Kelly.<br />Adam Hunt has come to Savannah on a mission.  He has come to find his ex-wife who was the therapist to Catilyn Montgomery.  When he manages to instigate himself into Caitlyn's life as her therapist, he feels guilt.  Guilt for lying to her and guilt for feeling something other than doctor concern, when he still has feelings for his ex-wife, Rebecca.  But the more he sees Caitlyn, the more he believes that Rebecca's dissaperance ties into to Caitlyn and her family.<br />Then someone starts killing off the remaining Montgomery family.  Starting with Caitlyn's husband, the killer then moves to the illigidemate Montgomery children.  And each time it seems as if Caitlyn is involved, possibly even the killer.  With her blackouts and memory losses, Caitlyn starts assuming the worst.  <br />The truth is a shocker and something that I didn't even expect at all.  I read some of the other reviews and I couldn't see where the reader would know about the outcome.  I also had no idea of the killer and was just as shocked with that.  I have read both Jackson's books, Hot and Cold Blooded, and I think that The Night Before definitley surpasses both books in suspense and romance.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-03-21
US	38350586	RNPG2JMEQM9VZ	1551667916	654061600	Loving Jessie	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A good book to curl up with....	Jessie Sinclair is approaching her 30th birtday and she realizes that she has nothing to show for it.  No lover, no marriage, no children.  All she has ever wanted is the stability her grandfather showed her after her parents died when she was eight years old.  It seems to Jessie that the more time that goes by, the less likely that it seems her dreams of having a family will come true.  Especially since the man she has loved since she was sixteen married another woman five years before.  Not that she believes that he ever looked at her in any other way but as a little sister.  Then Matt Latimer comes back to town and her whole world gets turned upside down.<br />Matt Latimer has returned home to Millers Crossing after he was almost killed by a bullet while on location in the Middle East.  As a photographer, Matt finds himself unable to pick up a camera since he was shot.  He decides to return home to try to heal.  When he sees Jessie, it's like taking a punch in the gut, for the gangly teenager has turned into a beautiful and desireable woman.  A woman that he can't stop fantasizing about.  When she approaches him with her insane idea to have a baby, his first reaction is gut wrenching anger that she would want to use him as a stud, then he realizes that he could be a part of something he never had as a child...a family.  So he says yes to Jessie, with one condition.  She has to marry him.<br />The story of Jessie and Matt is wonderfully told.  Jessie is trying to come to terms with the feelings she thought she had for the man she loved, which pale in comparision to what she feels for Matt.  Matt is trying to come to terms with his childhood of dealing with an abusive father and an aloholic mother and also of the time he was shot and blaiming himself for the whole incident.  Schulze also has wonderful secondary characters who will break your heart with their struggle to make their marriage work.<br />Happy reading!!	2003-03-21
US	38350586	R3QW3E9GIRTD9Z	1551669617	4168004	Fortune	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A chilling tale that will hold you spellbound...	When Grace Monarch was five years old her mother fled with her.  Madeline had always had The Sight and she was terrified of what she saw.  The only good thing that she did in her life was have Grace and be a mother to her and Madeline will do anything to protect her.  Even run from the family who has sworn to kill her to keep Grace in the family.  For she has The Gift, which passes down only to the female members of the family and makes the reputation of jewlery making at Monarchs legendary.<br />Twenty years have passed since Skye Dearborn was in Chicago.  She has no recollection however, but she is esatic to be offered a job as a designer at Monarchs.  She has always admired the work done by the famous jeweler and is happy to finally seemed to have found her niche in life.  She can't shake the feeling of abandonment though, by everyone that she ever loved.  First there was her mother, who dissapeard in the middle of the night and never came back.  Then there was Chance.  She met Chance when she was twelve in the carnival that her and her mother were traveling with.  Chance was there when her mother didn't return and Chance became her family.  Then Chance left her too and Skye knew that she would never again risk getting her heartbroken by longing for a family.  Then she meets Griffin Monarch who makes her believe again.  The more she is with Griffin, the more she wants him to want her forever.  Still, she can't shake the creepy feeling, the feeling of wrongness in being with him, the feeling that it isn't right.<br />Chance McCord has finally made it to the big time.  He has opened his own Public Relations firm and has an impressive client list after six months in business, thanks to Griffin Monarch.  Griffin is the type of person that Chance always wanted to be like.  Rich, successful, charming.  When he meets the new lady in Griffin's life, he is shocked.  For his bratty Skye has turned into a beautiful and desirable woman.  One that is off limits.  Then strangethings start happening and Chance realizes that something is off.  When he realizes that Skye is in danger of losing her life, he realized that his love for her as a child changed to love for a woman and he will risk anything to save that love.<br />Fortune is an entralling tale that will leave you breatless.  It will at times sicken you and make you cry as Spindler takes the reader through the ups and downs of the years from being a teenager to being an adult with secrets that you can't remember.<br />Happy reading!!	2003-03-18
US	38350586	R3E44EJCHYMLQ3	155166870X	112818976	Moment Of Truth	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An enjoyable romantic suspense	Kate Logan has branched off into her own practice as a criminal attorney after the notoriety of proving her own father-in-law a murderer.  It was harder than she thought however, as the press she received hasn't at all helped her practice.  That all changes when she gets a call from the finance of an accused murderer who fled the country two years before.  She is dying to take the case, not only for the money, but she honestly believes the man is innocent.  Kate is torn, for the murder victim was the sister of the man she has fallen in love with.<br />Mitch Calhoon is a cop for the Metro PD.  He's always believed in justice and in his opinion, Todd Buchannan needs to be brought to justice for the murder of his sister.  Then he gets priceless advice which makes him realize that he's thinking as a brother, not a cop.  So he decides to help Kate unravel the mystery behind the night of his sisters murder.<br />Moment of Truth is a suspense that will keep you guessing almost until the end.  Heggan drops clues about who the real killer is, which aren't hard to pick up and piece together.  It was a very satisfying and enjoyable read!	2003-03-18
US	38350586	RBQL00HUS1L30	1551669625	26979807	Shocking Pink	Books	5	23	26	N	N	A riveting suspense....	Andie Bennett and her two friends, Raven and Julie, lives were changed during the summer they were fifteen.  What started out as a lark between three teenage girls soon turned into something deadly.  For Andie, seeing the shocking sexual acts performed by two faceless people was horrifying.  She had never realized that there were people in the world who got satsifaction from the sick sexual acts she has witnessed.  Raven was facsinated by the control that 'Mr. X' had over 'Mrs. X'.  All her life she has strove for control over her life and the people in it.  Julie has always believed her father, the Reverend that she was the spawn of the Devil and is heartbroken to find herself aroused by the acts that she has seen go on in the abandoned house.  Then their world was rocked when one night, Mr. X left and Mrs. X was found dead two days later.<br />Nick was the detective on the case of the murder on that summer night fifteen years ago.  It has always bothered him that the murder went unsolved though he holds little hope that the crime will ever be solved.  Then all three girls seem to be in the small town at the same time and bizzarre things start happening.  <br />Then Andie starts getting odd phone calls and anonymous mail and a terrifying gift laying on her bed one night.  She finds herself turning to Nick instead of her two best friends which changes the course of her life once again.  She also has a client that admits he has a sexual problem and claims he needs her help before he hurts the woman that he loves.  Bound by doctor-patient confidentiality, Andie feels the conflit rising within herself when she sees Julie going down a self-destructing path with the very client that makes her question her morals as a therapist.  Then there is Raven, who is acting more odd as the days go by.  They had always been best friends, her, Raven, and Julie, but Andie had always missed how possessive and obsessive Raven was about loyalty and family.  <br />Spindler brings the reader into a terrifying place that involves three friends who witnessed something that would shape their lives and the paths they would take.  It will alternatly make the reader sad and scared as these three people try to find their niche in life.<br />Don't miss it!	2003-03-17
US	38350586	RL84VEXGI6G89	037383571X	1719020	Dark Angel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not very impressed....	Luciano da Valenza has just been released from prison where he spent five years serving time for a crime he didn't commit.  Now that he is free, his thoughts have turned to revenge.  He began with the Linwoods, who he believed framed them, and then to the youngest daughter, who dumped him the day before he was arrested.  He would have never believe Kerry could have been a part of the plot to frame him, but why else would she tell him she couldn't marry him, the day before he's arrested?<br />Kerry Linwood has just learned that her grandfather took a loan from Luciano several years before that hasn't been paid.  In an attempt to save her family home, she goes to London to see Luciano and try to reason with him.  She is unprepared for his loathing of her.  She is also unprepared for the desire she feels for him.  <br />Lynne Graham does a poor job of writing of these two people.  Luciano, to me, was a arrogant jerk who punished the one person that had loved him in his life.  He totally disregards the reason that she broke their engagement.  Kerry was depicted as a spinless, naive schoolgirl who was so overcome by lust that she set aside all the abuse that Luciano hurled at her.  This is my first Lynne Graham and I don't think I will have the courage to waste a day reading another of hers.	2003-03-16
US	38350586	RUC1KWJDEJVEL	0425185745	741386333	Promises to Keep	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A masterpiece.....	Agent Joe Stonehouse has dedicated his life to preventing violence at schools nationwide.  His current assignment has sent him to Fairholm High School where he has been hired as a school psychologist.  Joe is a man that has had many tragedies in his life, from his horrific childhood to losing the niece that was like his daughter in a school shooting.  He has trained himself not to feel anything for anyone but his family, however he had never met anyone like Suzanna Quinn, the principal at Fairholm.<br />Suzanna Quinn is the widowed principal at Fairholm.  When Joe Stonehouse and his partner Luke Ludezky want to come into her school prentending to be uncle and nephew, she is incensed.  She has always stressed how important honesty is between her staff and students and she feels like it's a betrayal of all that she thinks is important.  The hardest thing Joe asks her to do is keep it from her fellow teacher and surrogate daughter, Kelsey Cunningham.  Joe convinces her that it is worth keeping from Kelsey as the lives of many students are at risk.<br />This is my first Shay novel and I was very impressed.  The way she depicts the emotions of the characters is heartbreaking.  All the characters have had something happen in their past that they are trying to deal with and they all turn to eachother.  The secondary characters of Luke and Kelsey is especially heartbreaking, as Kelsey honestly believes she has feelings for a student that aren't at all teacher-like.<br />Shay also stresses to the reader how common violence is in schools and how important it is that adults, whether parents or teachers or counselers, be available to talk with them without jugding.  I can't wait to pick up another Shay!	2003-03-16
US	38350586	R6CIG61F76212	0671739735	902935920	Velvet Angel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A great closure to the 'Velvet' series....	Elizabeth Chatworth has spent her life protecting herself from men.  When she started to grow into her body, her older brother thought it was funny to torture her and bet her virginity while playing games with his friends.  For years she had to put up with his abuse when he brought her home from the convent to torture for his amusement.  Eventually she learned how to protect herself, with weapons and words.  She never lets a man touch her without inflicting pain, nor does she leave herself vunerable to attack by walking in front of a man.  Then she meets Miles Montgomery and everything she's believed about men changes.<br />Miles is astounded when he is delievered this golden goddess stark naked in a rug.  He is even more startled by her obvious hatred of him as a man.  He could understand why she wouldn't like him as a Montgomery, as their families are involved in a blood feud, but that she would be repulsed by him as a man confuses Miles to no end.  He soon learns that underneath her hatred lies fear and he decides that he will go to whatever lengths to conquer her of that fear.  What he didn't plan on was falling for her himself.<br />The story of Elizabeth and Miles is breathtaking.  Elizabeth learns to overcome her fear with Miles' help.  In Scotland she overcomes her fear of all men and is very grateful to Miles to unapologetically takes advantage of that fact.  The only problem they have is their feuding families, which comes to be resolved nicely at the end.  Deveraux brings back all the characters from the Velvet series for a very satisfying ending!<br />Happy reading!	2003-03-16
US	38350586	R15M70IOXTGODJ	0671739751	335874452	Velvet Song	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not up to par....	Alyx Blackett has been forced from her home by an English Nobleman.  She watched her home burn down with her father inside it and felt something die inside her.  She was then branded as a witch and a high price was put on her head for capture and trial.  The only way that she can save herself is to retreat to the forest to live along with other men and women who have been branded traitors by the King.<br />Raine Montgomery has been delcared a traitor and works hard to turn the muderers and theives in the forest into honest men.  His hate for the Chatworths is strong when he learns of the suicide death of his sister Mary after she was raped by Roger Chatworth, whom the reader was introduced to in Highland Velvet.  Raine's hate burns strong and he is very unlike how Deveraux introduced him in the two previous Montgomery novels.<br />Alyx is somewhat tiresome with her voice and bellowing.  Raine gets annoying with his constant unhappiness with Alyx.  This novel did not show the reader much of Raine's thoughts, which was dissapointing as it was hard not to fall in love with him in the previous two novels.  I also wondered what father would stay away from his daughter for a full year after her birth when he claimed to love her mother so much.<br />I am going to start Velvet Angel and hope it is better than Velvet Song.	2003-03-15
US	38350586	RZGTE23U7T6KG	0671739743	598069709	The Velvet Promise	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic medival love story....	Gavin Montgomery has finally gotten his family back on firm financial ground after eleven years of being the head of his family.  When he hears that the woman he loves is betrothed to another, he is furious, and begs her to marry him instead.  When she refuses, he accepts an offer of marriage from a neighboring earl, for it will bring him a large dowry and more land.  He doesn't have much hope for his bride, and finds himself stunned when he lays eyes on her on their wedding day.<br />For her entire life, Judith was prepared to enter the church and make her vows before God.  When her father informs her that she will marry Gavin Montgomery, she refuses.  When her father threatened her mother, Judith knew that she had no choice.  When he sees her husband on their wedding day, everything her mother told her about not trusting men flew right out of her head.<br />This is a typical medival romance, where the man first looks at the woman as property, then learns that she won't be treated like a thing that is owned.  I felt so frustrated with Gavin's obession with Alice, but it truly would not be the same without the conflict Gavin was feeling.  To the reader it is obvious how devious Alice is.  It is obvious to everyone but Gavin, who hold her in a high regard to the end.  I'm always bothered by a woman getting hit or raped in a book, but in the 1500's it wasn't the same as now.  I'm not saying that it's any less wrong, but it showed what kind of character Judith had.  She was a great heroine.  <br />If you like medival romance, you will enjoy this first book of the Montgomery brothers.	2003-03-14
US	38350586	R3VK0KWFIH2TN5	0451404769	375832863	Moonrise	Books	4	20	24	N	N	A dark tale that will pull you in.....	Annie Sutherland wants answers.  After discovering her father's body at the bottom of the stairs with a broken neck, she is horrified to discover that he has been murdered.  Until he was gone, she didn't realize that her father molded her into exactly what he wanted his only daughter to be, docile, elegant, and ladylike.  He even went so far as to hand pick and train a husband for her.  Even after realizing how much she was manipulated, Annie wants to find who killed the man she had loved forever.  So she goes to the only person that she thinks she can trust, the man that her father loved like a son.<br />James McKinley is doing all that he can to keep himself alive.  When Annie turns up on his doorstep in Mexico, he tells himself that it would be easier on both of them if he would just kill her.  He can't do it though.  He watched her grow from a child of seven to a woman of twenty seven, and he is unable to take her life in the many lethal ways he knows how.  This infuriates him.  He felt he lost his soul so long ago, and that this blond haired angel can make him feel anything again fills him with a rage that he embraces.<br />James and Annie travel the globe to uncover the conspiracy around Win Sutherland's murder.  When the murderer was uncovered I was so shocked that I didn't comprehend for about a half a page!  The only thing that I think could have been better was the ending.  I am curious to see how Stuart would depict her darker characters taking a stab at a normal life, with a normal relationship.<br />Above all, this was a great book.  If you try this and like it, also try Nightfall by Anne Stuart!	2003-03-12
US	38350586	R515GHTYXTCMQ	0671786172	250081003	Legends Lake	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You will be captiated by the magic of Ireland....	Alec MacKenna has been cast out of the elite horse racing circles in Kentucky.  All his life he worked to make the MacKenna name respectable again after his father disgraced the name.  He was finally moving up in the occupation he loved, as a horse trainer.  That all changed one muddy day when the horse he had been training for years died while running his heart out.  After recommending to the horse's owner not to let him run, Alec was furious and devestated.  He let his fury get the best of him and let his fist fly at the owner.  That wouldn't have been so bad, except almost all the owners of the horses in stable were present.  Soon, he discovered himself with no horses and a bad reputation.  That all changed when a good friend brought him to see Legends Lake.  His first look at this not-so-fine piece of horseflesh was deceiving however.  He knew by looking at him that he had a champion, but there was a problem with the horse.  To find the solution, he took Legends Lake back to Ireland and her breeder.<br />Kate O'Sullivan was estatic to have her horse back at the stud.  She was not so estatic at meeting the MacKenna though.  He was too brash, too cynical, and to her eye had to many similarities to her estranged husband.  As the days passed, Kate learned that she was wrong and that Alec was as gentle as her gentlest mare in the stable.  But his passion surprised her, as did her passion for him for she had never felt anything like it in all her life.<br />Legends Lake is the story of overcoming your past and trusting enough to fall in love.  Alec learns to love in the beauty of Ireland and Kate learns that her fey magic will not always fail her.  Ross also brings us Zoe, Alec's daughter, and Jaime and Brigid, Kates two children.  The reader will be captivated as these five people try to make themselves a family and overcome all the loss in their lives.	2003-03-10
US	38350586	RAO47SJUV1QTG	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A book you don't want to miss...	Marnie Wright has gone to her grandmother's cabin in the mountains of Northern California for some soul searching.  Her grandmother had told her to live her life to it's fullest, but she didn't realize what she'd meant until after she was dead.  So Marnie retreated to her cabin to figure out what she wanted to do for the rest of her life and how she wasn't going to accomplish it.  The last thing she expected to find on the mountain was a cold and cynical man with more scars inside than anyone she'd ever met.<br />Jake Dolan was put on suspension from T-FLAC, which is an organization that goes after terrorists for whomever hires their services.  Still smarting after being accused of being a traitor, Jake goes to the only place he's ever found peace.  The last thing he expected to find was a blond bombshell with more guts than brains and the biggest heart he's ever encountered in a person.<br />Jake and Marnie come together in a storm of sparks and desire that just won't quit.  Cherry Adair brings the reader danger and desire in this story about love and betrayal.  Adair also introduces the readers to the other Wright brothers whom the reader will fall a little in love with.  This is the first book of the Wright series and I look foward to all the other books in the series.	2003-03-07
US	38350586	R1QC6RVS4QRX76	0671034057	562966780	Now You See Her	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A gripping tale...	Paris Sweeney is an artist who experiences strange phomenoms.  Her first pre-natural experience was in her hometown when she saw a little boy trailing after his mother in a supermarket parking lot trying to get her attention.  Only after a few seconds did Sweeney realized she had attended the boys funeral the week before.  Shaken, Sweeney decides to move out of her small hometown where she was seeing as many ghosts as people.  Deciding that New York City was the perfect place for her, she sets up shop and enters a contract with a local gallery owner to commission her work.<br />After being in city for a few months, Sweeney feels she has come to accept her 'gift'.  Not only does she see ghosts on the street, stop lights turn green for her, traffic moves out of the way, and her plants are constantly blooming.  What could be better?  Then she starts 'sleep painting' scences of brutal violence.  Every morning following her sleep painting Sweeny's body goes into shock, with all the syptoms of hypothermia.  There's only one way for Sweeney to get warm.<br />Richard Worth had always noticed Sweeney and was amused and a little annoyed that she was so oblivous to him as a man.  Of course, it didn't help that he owned the gallery that she sold her work to, or that his wife ran the gallery.  Her interest wasn't even caught when he filed for divorce almost a year before.  All that changed one day when their eyes met and there was an almost electric current surging between the two.  However, he didn't count on wanting to start a sexual relationship with a physcic, though he didn't discount Sweeney's claims.  Not even when the body of the victim she paintied turned out to be his soon-to-be ex-wife.<br />Now You See Her is a story of the unexplained and unexpected.  Linda Howard brings the reader exotic romance and paranormal occurences in a novel that will hold the reader spellbound and wanting more.  Don't miss it.	2003-03-06
US	38350586	R2IT5OM9TTM68N	0743457439	572742241	Magnolia Moon (Callahan Brothers Trilogy)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A fitting end in Blue Bayou	Regan Hart is a cynical Homicide Detective in L.A.  She went into law enforcement because she believed she would be able to make a difference.  She had incorrectly assumed that since she was going to be in Homicide, that she wouldn't have to deal with the victims so her emotions wouldn't be involved.  After ten years, she's finally ready to admit that she was wrong.  When Nate Callahan shows up in the Golden State, he not only makes her question her identity, he makes her take a good look at her life.<br />Nate Callahan loves women.  He's loved women since he was a teenager.  He would never get involved with a woman that he couldn't be friends with after the relationship was over.  All that changes when he first lays eyes on 'Dectective Cherie'.  He's never met anyone like Regan and he felt like he was hit in the head by one of his 2x4's when he wasn't looking.  Everything from her dry wit to her reluctance to get involved with him facsinates Blue Bayou's ladies man.<br />But they have a murder to solve and an identity to uncover.  JoAnn Ross takes the reader through trying to find out who you are to finding love and believing that it's true after a such a short amount of time.  It is a heartwarming story and a fitting end to the end of Ross' Callahan trilogy.	2003-03-01
US	38350586	R2GT1VG20NZ91Q	1551666685	263953863	Embrace the Twilight (MIRA)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A keeper....	Sarafina has been betrayed by every person she's ever loved so she's shut herself off from feeling emotions for people.  First it was her sister Katerina, who hated her from the day she was born.  Her betrothed, Andre, betrayed her with the sister that hated her, all the while convincing Sarafina that he loved her.  Even her companion, the man that made her a vampire chose to walk into the sun instead of staying with her.  The last person that she opened her heart to was her great nephew, Dante, whom she felt turned his back on her for the woman he loved more than her.  There was only one thing that gave her peace, and that was her beloved spirit.  The spirit she'd always felt, even before she became a vampire.  She felt safe falling in love with her spirit because she knew that it wasn't flesh and blood, therefore it could never break her heart.<br />Wilem Stone was being tortured in a cave by Afghani military the first time he saw her.  He was in so much pain that he left his body and hers was the face he saw.  He felt everything she felt.  He felt pain, betrayal, love and anger.  Through the days of his torture, he would retreat to his beautiful Sarafina, even though he couldn't see her, she was his salvation.  <br />When Will finally escaped, he couldn't make any contact with Sarafina again.  He was finally able to, due to the pain he inflicted on himself.  When he did, he was shocked to learn that a hundred years had passed for her, where only two months had passed for him.  He could finally be with the woman he fell in love with.  He soon learns that she's not the same woman that he first saw.  This woman is hard and bitter.  She is defeated  and ruthless.  She is not the sweet and innocent woman he knows she is deep down inside.<br />While in the hospital, Will comes upon a vamipre stealing blood from the blood bank.  He instictively knows who he is when he sets eyes on Jameson Bryant.  The two men soon strike a deal.  Will is to protect Jameson's daughter Amber and in return, Jameson will help Will find Sarafina.  <br />The story goes on with drama that you can only find in a paranormal romance.  Feelings are intensified in this novel of vampires.  When Maggie Shayne first introduces the reader to Sarafina, you will believe that she is a vampire beyond redemption.  She didn't count on the power of her love for a mortal man, however, and she finds that she still has some good left in her.  If you have enjoyed Maggie Shayne's 'Wings in the Night' series, you will also enjoy this one, though it doesn't compare to the first three tales in the series.<br />Happy reading!	2003-02-27
US	38350586	R3L3GG1WVI4BDL	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A book you won't regret reading....	Pheobe Sommerville has just inherited the Chicago Stars football team and she is thrilled that her father apparently believed in her enough to leave her his beloved Stars.  There was a catch though, she has one year to win the Superbowl, or ownership of the team reverts to her cousin.  Needless to say, Pheobe knows absolutley nothing about football and winning a championship with a losing team is beyond her comprehension.  So, she decides that she will not get involved with the Stars, owner or not.  She doesn't count on Dan Cabelow though, or her explosive attraction to him.  <br />Dan Cabelow is the head coach of the Chicago Stars.  When he meets his new 'boss', he can't believe that her father left his daughter, the bimbo, the team.  Then, as the season passes, he learns that she really has a brain beneath all the makeup and hooker clothing.  What he can't figure out is why she would want people to think she's a bimbo.  Regardless of his attraction to Pheobe, he knows that she's not the woman for him.  When he thinks of marriage, he thinks of children and peace, something he definitley can't see Miz Sommerville wanting.  <br />Susan Elizabeth Phillips brings the reader a story of love and courage, heartbreak and loss.  She does it in a way that is so extrodinary, the reader feels like they're actually a part of the book.  I didn't want this book to end, but I was so satisfied with the ending that I cried.  Dan and Pheobe's story is so heartwrenching, you'll want to keep a box of tissues by your side.  You'll not only cry, but you'll laugh until you cry.  Don't miss this book!	2003-02-26
US	38350586	R29CM85QNZKSFG	1551668491	110072523	A Woman's Heart	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A heartwarming love story.....	Joann Ross brings the reader to the Ireland countryside in this story of magic and love. Bringing together a jaded author and a woman who has known too much loss in her life, Ross will hold the reader enthralled in this tale of love.<br />Quinn Gallager has come to Ireland where he hopes to bring his book about an ancient Ireland legend, The Lady, to the big screen.  He never expects to meet a character he created in the flesh.  Ever since writing about the widowed mother, he has not been able to forget her, even though he knows she is pure fantasy.  When he meets Nora Fitzpatrick, he realizes that she is his fantasy come to life.  As Quinn finds himself falling for Nora, he reminds himself of his roots, which include an alcholic mother and a drunk and violent father.  He convinces himself that he is not good enough for Nora and her family and nor will he ever be.  What he doesn't count on is the goodness and magic of Nora and her family.<br />Nora Fitzpatrick is a widow who has convinced herself in the five years since her husband was killed that she had a picture perfect marriage.  Meeting Quinn Gallager makes her take a second look at her life and her marriage and what she finds is less than perfect.  Always the caretaker of her family, Nora decides that it is time to take care of herself and gives herself up to the love she feels for Quinn.<br />The story of Quinn and Nora is truly magical, reminding the reader of Nora Roberts Irish trilogy.  I truly enjoyed this book and believe that if you like love stories, this one is a definite book to pick up.	2003-02-25
US	38350586	RKUONQCB303EI	0515135216	569070882	Dark Symphony (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 9)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You won't be dissapointed...........	Christine Feehan does not dissapoint the reader in the story of Carpathian Byron and Antonietta Scarletti.  Dark Symphony does the series justice with it's intensity and passion.  The reader not only gets to go into the world of the Carpathian, but also the author takes us back to the Scarletti Palazzo.  It's different from her normal Carpathian books because Byron is not a hunter so we don't go into the dark world of the undead.  Instead we have the secrets of the palazzo.<br />Byron is a Carpathian that was drawn by the music of famous pianist Antonietta Scarletti.  Recognizing his lifemate upon hearing her music, he goes to Italy to meet the famous musician.  Since the time Byron was captured by humans and tourtured, he doesn't rush blindly into anything, so he decides to court Antonietta so she can get used to him.  Of course it doesn't quite work out that way, as the way Feehan depicts the nature of the Carpathians, they can't stay away from their lifemate.<br />Antonietta is a thirty seven year old pianist who is basically the head of the Scarletti family.  Her grandfather is sick and between her cousins, she doesn't know who to trust.  When Byron enters her life, she finds herself not just thinking of him, but obsessing over him.  When she finds out Byron's true nature, she is fascinated, as her family has been know to shapeshift into the Jaguar.<br />But someone wants the Scarletti family dead, and Byron takes it upon himself to find out who it is.  He has waiting hundreds of years for his lifemate and will not give her up now.  The secondary characters that Feehan had in Dark Symphony added to the character of the book.  I especially got a kick out of little Josef, but 22 doesn't seem like a little boy to me.  I was happy that Feehan also revisted the problem between Jaques and Byron.<br />I definitley can't wait until the next Dark book comes out.  If you're thinking of not reading this book, you better read it or you'll be very dissapointed.	2003-02-25
US	38350586	R32II8IQC75XTU	0671525751	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me : A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A fufilling read.....	I enjoyed this book immensely, but it wasn't as good as I expected it to be.  When I compare Someone to Watch Over Me to her other contemporary novels, it comes up short.<br />Leigh Manning was headed to the cabin her husband Logan had found for their dream vacation.  Leigh, being a leading actress on Broadway, and Logan, heavily involved in business had a hard time finding time to spend together, so Leigh was looking foward to the weekend they had planned.  The weekend took a turn for the worse when Leigh was in an accident that landed her in the hospital and her husband was no where to be found.<br />Then there is Michael Valente who Leigh despises on principle.  According to law enforcement and the media he is guilty of everything from fraud to money laundering.  What she doesn't know is that he is someone that she knew, fourteen years ago, and he's come for the woman he has loved for all those years.<br />McNaught delivers on keeping the reader on the edge of their seat with the suspense.  At times I felt sorry for Leigh and angry on her behalf.  At the same time I wondered how anyone could be so blind to their husbands faults.  McNaught also always has secondary characters that you fall in love with and this novel was no different.  <br />Again, this is a really great book, but for Paradise will always be my favorite contemporary by McNaught :)	2003-02-22
US	38350586	RLOBFTNDIKK7G	0451404750	292146731	Nightfall	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A darkly sensual read.......	WOW! This is absolutley my favorite Anne Stuart book. It gripped me from the beginning with the dark sexuality and the even darker plot. If you want a light heartwarming romance, this is not the book for you. This is a book fraught with tension, denial, and danger.<br />Cassidy Roarke has been called by her father, Sean O'Roark, who is, in his own right, a famous author. Never being asked for anything by her father and always feeling like a failure, she jumps at the chance to be there for him and make him proud of her. What she doesn't know is that he has made a pact with a man accused of murdering his wife and two children, one that sacrafices his own daughter to the devil. <br />Richard Tiernan has his own adjenda and it includes Cassidy Roarke. From the moment he saw the picture of her sitting on Sean's desk, he knows this is the woman that he has been looking for. The challenge is that he has to own Cassidy, body, heart and soul. The tale that follows is intense and extremely dark, but very satisfying to the reader. Richard will captivate you with his cold calculating ways and Cass will break your heart with her dilemnia of falling in love with someone who she knows she can't trust.<br />The book takes a turn toward the end, but not a surprising one. You will not be dissapointed by this book and you do not want to miss it!	2003-02-22
US	38350586	R35DETDSDIJAXW	0671027069	629365896	Homeplace (Coldwater Cove)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A heartwarming romance....	Raine Cantrell is a big shot lawyer in Manhattan who has clawed her way to the top hoping to make partner at one of the most prestigous law firms in the city. After winning a big case, she sees herself on the fast track to partner. Until she gets a call from her hometown of Coldwater Cove, Washington. <br />Sherriff Jack O'Halloran knew exactly what to expect after talking to Raine on the phone regarding the three juveniles that had barricaded themselves in her grandmothers house. He expected a pushy, uptight, stressed out lawyer, which is exactly what he got. And then some. What he didn't expect was the attraction that sizzled between him and Raine.<br />They were adults, so surely they could indulge in a brief affair, with no strings attached. What they didn't count on was Jack's four year old daughter, Raine's pagan mother and her pushy grandmother. Nor did they expect the plight of three teenage girls to bring them together.<br />Homeplace is a wonderful story of finding out who you are. It shows you that no matter how far you run, your family will always be waiting for you to come home.	2003-02-19
US	38350586	R30XL0Y52EUYI4	1551662612	305241107	Secret Sins	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A book worth reading...	This was a great book, up until the ending.  I couldn't put it down and read it in four hours.  Cresswell always delivers the reader the right amount of suspense with romance mixed in.<br />Jessica was found hiding under a car when she was four years old after an accident that left several people dead, including the people that were believed to be her parents.  A policeman on the scene found the little girl, and believing that she was now an orphan, took her home where she was eventually adopted by his son and daughter in law.<br />Twenty six years later she learns the devistating news that the person she thought she was for all those years was dead seven months before the accident.  With the help of her ex husband, she works to unravel the truth of her real identity.  While looking for the truth, her and her ex husband, Dan, try to come to terms why their marriage didn't work out and if they can make it work once more.<br />I was very satisfied reading this book, but I felt a major let down when I read the last page and found that the book ended how it did.  I felt that the author should have gone into more depth about Constance and Ed, and Constance's return to the world.  Cresswell makes the reader root for Constance, and then leaves you feeling bereft at the end of the book.<br />Overall, I would recommend this book, but I most likely won't pick it up again.	2003-02-18
US	38350586	R1Y7E4FB5WPWDJ	055356823X	52934810	Amanda	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A great romantic suspense......	I started this book with mixed feelings.  The only other Kay Hooper books that I have read are her 'Evil' trilogy.  I enjoyed them, but there wasn't enough romance for me, so that's what I expected with Amanda, but I still decided to try it.  I was not dissapointed with this book.  It had romance with just the right amount of suspense and personal conflict added in.<br />Amanda has returned to her childhood home after a thirty year absence.  She was nine years old when her and her mother left in the cover of the night.  She didn't expect a warm welcome from her 'family' and she wasn't dissapointed.  She didn't think anyone would try to kill her though.<br />Walker is the Daulton family lawyer and he is paid to be suspicous of strangers showing up claiming to be the long lost Amanda Daulton.  After all, there is a fortune at stake.  He doesn't know what to make of this woman whom he is sure is an imposter.  He feels desire for her, but at the same time he resents her for lying to him about who she really is and how she has spent the last twenty years.<br />There are other characters in this book that will hold you spellbound.  Sully, Jesse, Kate, Ben, Reece, and Maggie.  I've read that many people were surprised how the book ended.  I didn't expect the twist it took at the end, but I believe it's fairly easy to figure out who is behind all the 'accidents' happening at Glory.  <br />The end of this book is very satisfying and you will put it down with tears in your eyes.  Don't miss it!	2003-02-16
US	38350586	R23GP633MHC476	0515129712	175484378	On Thin Ice	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great romantic suspense....	Ellie Kramer has spent the last thirteen years dreaming of clearing her father's name of a rape/murder charge.  After all that time, she finally found herself on the way to reaching her life long goal.  Taking a year off from law school, she got a job clerking at the DA's office in Boulder, CO.  Her investigation leads her to the two rookie cops who responded to the call about the missing girl.  <br />Michael Callas is a detective with the BPD.  He is a loner who likes his solitude.  He doesn't know what to make of Ellie, who seems like a bundle of contradictions.  He sees secrets in her eyes, and as a cop he distrusts and disklikes secrets.  But he feels more for her than he's felt for anyone woman before.  For some reason, Ellie is able to pull him out of his self-imposed isolation.<br />Finn Rasmussen left the police force to start his own security company.  He is a charming and charismatic man.  When he meets Ellie, he finds a woman that can hold his intrest for more than a month.  He is intrigued in spite of himself.  He finds himself wanting her more and more with each passing day.<br />On Thin Ice is a story about revenge, love, betrayal, and sickness.  It is a book where you know early on who the killer is, and I have to say that this writing pair did a great job of making it believable since the reader didn't have to play the guessing game.  You will like On Thin Ice if you enjoy romantic suspense!!	2003-02-12
US	38350586	R15ZHP0YQEC2YU	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A wonderful historical romance...........	WOW!  This was the third book of the Bow Street Runner trilogy and it definitely did the series justice.  There are many historical romances that where the characters play games with each other, not being able to decide if they want to be in love...<br />Nick Gentry was a peer of the realm who did not want, nor did he ever have plans, to claim his title.  When he accepted a private commision from Lord Raynor to find his missing betrothed, little did he know that it would change the course of his life.<br />Charlotte Howard was a desperate woman who fled from her controlling fiancee two years before.  When she met Nick Gentry, whom she was introduced to as Lord Sydney, she felt something for him that she'd never felt in her life.<br />The story of Nick and Lottie is heartbreaking and at the same time it will warm your heart.  Nick is a tortured hero who knew too much desolation at his young age, of 28.  It was uplifting to see Lottie bring him out of his self-imposed shell and teach him how to trust and love again.<br />You will enjoy 'Worth Any Price' and any other book that Lisa Kleypas writes.  I can't wait for her next book to come out!!!	2003-02-01
US	38350586	R19OPP85U5OT3Y	0821771450	758602981	Night Moves (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A great suspense with lukewarm romance......	NIGHT MOVES was a romantic suspense that I picked up with high expectations.  Needless to say, I was dissapointed, but I would recommend this book to those who enjoy more suspense than romance.<br />Jordan Curry's life-long friend drops her four year old son off in the middle of the night with instructions not to tell anyone where he is.  It is a matter of life and death.<br />Beau Somerville is an architect who was set up on a blind date with Jordan.  When he waits and the restrurant and she doesn't show he goes by her house, thinking that he got the day wrong.<br />Beau is immediatley drawn to the small boy who reminds him so much of the son he lost.  Ms. Taylor takes us on the journey of Beau, who is trying to overcome his demons and trying not to let Jordan and Spencer down.  Jordan doesn't want to be involved with anyone, but finds herself reluctantly attracted to Beau.  Chaos ensues when a hitman is trying to find Spencer after murdering his parents.<br />I thought Beau was a little to weak for a hero of a romantic suspense.  Jordan let Spencer hurt her feelings a little too often.  And Spencer acted way to old for a four year old.<br />I keep a pile of books to trade and books to keep and re-read.  This one will get traded in.	2003-01-21
US	38350586	R205QH8GSGTYJQ	0671785885	980408671	Brown-Eyed Girl	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good romantic suspense.......	This is my first Mariah Stewart book and I really enjoyed it.  It was somewhat slow in the beginning, but it definitley got better toward the middle and I couldn't put it down until I finished it.  I was also very satsified with the ending.<br />Leah McDevitt is a Feature Editor for Trends, which is a magazine based in NY.  Upon returning home from working on an article abroad she finds a letter from a serial killer who is being exectued, stating that he knows where to find her sister Melissa who has been missing for seven years.  Leah makes a deal with him, but before she finds out where her sister is, he dies in prison.  Dejected and grieving all over again, Leah turns to the one person who may be able to help...<br />Ethan Sanger wrote the book on Raymond Lambert, dubbed The Vagrabond Killer.  When Leah first comes to Ethan and asks to see his notes for the book, he wants to turn her down.  However he finds that he can't.  He knows what it's like to have a loved one missing and not know where to look.  Together Leah and Ethan embark on a journey to find out what happened to Melissa.  <br />This book has just the right amount of romance and suspense.  The secondary characters are great and I can't wait to read Genna and Michael's story next.<br />It's defintley worth the time to read this book!	2003-01-21
US	38350586	RFSR7APYIZTA9	0671019708	691382940	After the Night	Books	5	5	6	N	N	WOW!  You won't regret reading this book........	I have read all Linda Howard's books and I decided to start re-reading them a couple of weeks ago.  I began with AFTER THE NIGHT.  Linda Howard weaves a story of murder and betrayl, love and passion and she does it so magnificently that I didn't want this book to end.  <br />Faith Devlin has come back to Prosper, South Carolina after a twelve year absence.  She will never forget the night that her mother left, supposedly with Guy Roulliard, who bascially owned the whole town.  She was fourteen when Gray Roulliard, then in his twenties, came to their house and kicked her and her brothers and sister out on the street.  So, after twelve years she has returned to find out what happened to Gray's father and clear her mother's name.<br />Gray Roulliard could never forget that night, especially the desire he felt for a then fourteen year old Faith.  He sickened himself feeling that way for a child, but she is now a woman and he wants her.  Until he finds out why she came back.  He feels pulled in two different directions, one toward the one woman who can make him feel complete and the other toward his family that he is now responsible for.<br />This books is about the ups and downs of a love that both people are fighting, family that dissaproves, and murder.  I can barely put into words the relationship between Gray and Faith because it was so intense.  They're basically just trying to move on after the night that their lives changed forever.<br />DO NOT MISS THIS BOOK!!!!!!!!	2003-01-21
US	38350586	R32CBBRDNRB5YH	1551666480	87024757	Deadly Intent	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An enjoyable romantic suspense....	This is my first book by Christiane Heggan.  The suspense in the book was pretty good, while the romance was so-so.<br />Ian MacGregor is an inmate in prison when he sees his ex-stepsister on tv.  He hasn't seen her in 28 years since a fire destroyed their house and killed his father.  When he sees her on television getting interviewed about her new restrurant, he devises a scheme of blackmail.<br />Abbie DiAngelo has finally got her new business off the ground.  She is very happy with her life.  She has a nine year old son, a mother who lives close by, and a restrurant that is doing excellent business.  When Ian comes back into her life, she sees her dreams going down the drain.  <br />When Ian first tells Abbie about the blackmail, her first thought is to go to the police.  She doesn't want her mother hurt though, so she agrees to pay him half the money he originally wanted.  When she goes to the drop off to give him the money, Ian isn't there and she is attacked.  Later, she finds out Ian is dead.<br />John Ryan is the detective in charge of the case who knows that Abbie is hiding something, but he doesn't know what it is.  He is also going through his own ordeal, deciding how he could get his son to live with him full time, while juggling his job and making his ex-wife happy with the arrangement.<br />The romance between John and Abbie is sweet, but not very explosive as I normally like reading.  The mystery was enjoyable and I believe that you will enjoy the book if you like romantic suspense.	2003-01-20
US	38350586	RX2FZXHVJTPTJ	0373484712	920739156	On Her Guard  (Protectors)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A great romantic suspense....	Wow.  That about sums this book up.  Beverly Barton did an extrodinary job of expressing characters emotions.  <br />Ellen Denby is the CEO of The Dundee Agency, who is called in to find a kidnapped child and her nanny.  She is unaware that the father of the child, Theo Constantine, has called in his own backup.  <br />Ellen is shocked to see Nikos, the man she had a two week fling with nearly 15 years ago.  Nikos is more than shocked to find Ellen, whom he knew as Mary Ellen, the CEO of the agency.  He as been undercover for the British SIS for the past 18 years, but he had never forgotten Mary Ellen, whom he fell in love with the two weeks they were together, but couldn't put her life in jepordy.  If only he knew......<br />When I read what Ellen went through when she got back to the states after her fling, I couldn't stop crying for 10 pages.  Being a mother, it was especially hard to read and I almost had to put the book down.<br />This is a book that takes us through the ups and downs of Ellen and Nikos' relationship, Theo and Dia, and later in the book Faith (the nannny) and Worth.	2003-01-20
US	38350586	R32Q4YNJO8CHQ5	0505524759	577832052	The Promise	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A great time travel romance.....	Cara and Michael first come together when she is 16 and he is 19.  In the 20th century Cara has just turned 16 and was given a family heirloom, a pendant, for her birthday.  This pendant has been passed down through her family since the late 1800's.  On their way home, her and her parents get in a car accident and she is thrown from the car and transported back in time.<br />When Michael comes across Cara, he believes she is a small injured animal.  When he notices that she is a young girl, he takes her into the mine to protect her from the storm.  The next morning when Cara wakes up in The Promise she is back in her time, having no idea that she was transported at all.  Over the years she is convinced by her grandfather and all her doctors that Michael was just a figment of her imagination.<br />Throughout the nine years, they never forgot each other and fate brought them together again.  In most time travel romances that I've read, the heroine goes back through time and has to adapt to the past.  I really enjoyed how Michael came foward and I couldn't stop laughing when he made Cara Fruit Loops for breakfast.<br />The love between the two was intense that even the boundries of time couldn't destroy.  Davis does a great job portraying to the reader the intensity of their feelings for eachother.<br />If you enjoyed this book, I would recommend 'Everything In It's Time', also by Davis.  I believe it is out of print, but you may be able to find it at a used book store.	2003-01-15
US	38350586	R1UTSF2VB4J48Z	0671019716	811840260	Shades of Twilight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Linda Howard does it again....	I hadn't read SHADES OF TWILIGHT for about two years and I picked it up again yesterday.  I love this book.  I don't think there is really a negative thing that I can say about this book.  I was pretty much revolted by the relationship Jessie had with her father, but I understood that this was part of the book that made it as good as it was.  <br />Webb and Roanna's relationship was sweet at first and then turned passionate.  There was just the right amount of romance and suspense combined in this book to make it as good as it was.  <br />I have read all of Linda Howard's books and am eagerly awaiting the release of the next book.	2003-01-14
US	38350586	R2FTIWMUX05PQM	0380819635	813843722	Lost in Your Arms (Governess Bride, Book 5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A very nice love story	I have had a hard time lately finding historical romances that I enjoy.  This romance was hard for me to put down.  It didn't just have the normal storyline of 'guy meets girl and wants her as his mistress, but girl will change his mind'.<br />Enid was a very enjoyable heroine.  She had confidence even after being abandoned by her husband of three months.  MacLean was your typical arrogant and cocky hero, but you definitley had to love him.<br />You won't regret reading this book.	2003-01-12
US	38350586	R2ZEFO69QV0XXE	0821771205	980204258	The Mating Game (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A heartwarming and humorous story........	I first read Melanie George in 'To Die For' and I immediatley went to see if she had anymore contemporary novels in print.  I absolutley fell in love with the characters in this book.<br />Dexter and Mallory were perfect for each other.  It's hard to find romance novels that have depth to them and can still be humorous.  My favorite part of the book was when he used 'dough' to describe her skin.  I couldn't stop laughing!!!<br />I never would have thought that I would have enjoyed a nerdy hero, but I really enjoyed Dexter.  Mallory was very sweet also.  It is definitley worth your time to pick up this book!!	2003-01-12
US	38350586	R2UZFH1DYOC8BA	0449150631	606408692	Blue Clouds	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Couldn't put it down!!	This was my first book by this author and I will definitley be going to pick up more.<br />Pippa had a positive outlook on everything even with all the demons she was fighting in her life.  Her mother died of cancer, she lost her job, and she had an abusive boyfriend.  Even with all that, she came out on top.  She was humorous and loveable at the same time.  Her relationship with Chad was heartwarming and I loved how she dealt with Seth!<br />Seth was a total recluse who didn't know what to make of this whirlwind that blew through his life and ruined his routine.  He definitley desired her but he wasn't sure what else he felt for her.  <br />The end of the book was thoroughly enjoyable and very satisfying.  Do not miss this book!!	2003-01-12
US	38350586	R1LS6CXHIR1UQD	0821771213	683299037	To Die For	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Loved it!	This is my first Melanie George book and I though it was great!  I read it in one night.  It had a little bit of everything that I love.  Romance, hot sex, intrigue, and suspense.<br />I have been having a hard time finding suspense romances that don't have too much suspense or romance and it's been very hard.  I found this book completley by luck and I am very glad I did!!<br />If anyone has any other suggestions for Romantic/Suspense books, please let me know!	2003-01-07
US	38350586	R16NKTFQJ5N5TX	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Worth the wait.....	Lady of Desire was the fourth book in the series of the Knight family.  It was a very enjoyable book however it wasn't my favorite in the series.<br />Lady Jacinda decides to run away to Paris so she can avoid a betrothal agreement with the family friend Lord Griffith.  While waiting for her coach, she gets robbed by a little boy and gives chase.  She ends up in an alley where the two gangs of the city are battling.<br />Enter Billy Blade, aristocrat turned gang leader.  He escaped his family home when he was fifteen and struck out on his own.  The story of how he grew up is heartbreaking.<br />The only problem that I had with this book is that I though Ms. Foley took Jacinda's resistance a little too far.  Besides that, the love story was heartwarming and believable.  Billy and Jacinda falling in love was a sweet story.  Billy was obviously anamored of her at the beginning and decided he was going to catch her.<br />Please take the time to read this book, as I believe you will enjoy it.	2003-01-06
US	38350586	R1SHMUMWWP9UXN	0515128740	596641300	Everything in Its Time (Time Passages)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An unforgettable love story.....	I have read all of Dee Davis' novels that are currently in print.  I found this book at a used bookstore and was very excited about reading it.  I read it in ONE night.  This book went straight to my heart.  There are a few books out there that I will never forget reading, and this is one of them.<br />Iain and Katherine's love is heartwarming.  I also liked how Ms. Davis had the secondary characters of Jeff and Elaine.  I enjoyed Jeff and Kitty's relationship immensely.<br />If you come across this book, do not pass it up or you will regret it.  This is in my 'keeper' category!!!!	2003-01-03
US	38350586	RE5HKQLQLL7O5	0743453468	422431630	Whispers at Midnight (Robards, Karen)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A keeper	In Whispers at Midnight, Karen Robards doesn't dissapoint.  <br />Carly comes home to Georgia from Chicago to start a Bed and Breakfast in her childhood home.  She never guessed that her first love and used-to-be best friend, the town bad boy Matt Converse, would not only still be there but be the county Sherriff as well.<br />Ms. Robards takes us through the ups and downs of Carly, who can't decide if she wants to pursue Matt and risk getting her heart broken again or just stay as far away from him as possible.  Matt is torn between his passion for Carly and his passion for freedom.  He has been raising his three sisters since he was in in early twenties and his mother died.  As soon as his youngest sister starts college, Matt is planning on hitting the road.<br />The suspense in the book is pretty far out there.  It wasn't believeable to me at all, but I still enjoyed this book immensely.	2003-01-02
US	38350586	R292QVFWG3RWWC	0821769340	467390206	Cold Blooded (A Bentz/Montoya Novel)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Give it a try	This is my second Lisa Jackson novel, my first being Hot Blooded.  I have to say that I enjoyed Hot Blooded more than Cold Blooded, although I did love the character of Bentz.<br />I had a few problems with this book.  First, it was too typical to have the killer be who it was.  I don't know how anyone that read it couldn't have figured it out.  There was one character that I couldn't stand. KRISTI.  She was a total spoiled brat.  Nothing was good enough for her and she constantly acted like a bratty kid to Bentz.  I understood why she would have issues, but I think she really needed to have a session or two with Dr. Sam.  The last thing that bothered me was how the character of Dr. Leeds kept being brought up.  Everyone though something was off with him, but we never did find out what it was.<br />I really did like Olivia although she isn't one of my favorite heroines.  I liked the fact that Jackson had her interested in more than one man.  That happens in the real world, but not very often in the world of fiction.<br />My last comment is that the Epilogue was AWFUL.	2003-01-01
US	38350586	R3F0VNL8OC28AN	0449002470	900263604	The Pirate Prince (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Couldn't put it down!	I have read all of Gaelen Foley's books and this one is one of my favorites.  Ms. Foley has portrayed a man who is one of the most intense heroes that I have read about.  Lazar is my idea of the 'ideal' hero.  In many historical romances today the man is pushing the woman away because he is a womanizing rake.  This isn't the case with Lazar.  He desperatley wants Allegra's love to save him from the demons of his past that he is constantly fighting.  <br />Not only is this a favorite of mine from Foley, but one of the best Historicals I have ever read.	2002-12-17
US	38350586	R30BWUO2DZTDZ2	0451203550	80217578	Dark Side of Dawn	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Dissapointing	I was very excited about reading this book.  I have been looking for books with suspense and romance combined and I hoped that this one would be better than it was.  First, I didn't like how most of the story was told from Jo's point of view.  I like books where there are the main characters and sometimes the pov from the secondary characters as well.  I felt that the story would have been better if the reader would have understood where Alex was coming from.  At the beginning of the book he seemed like a sweet and caring guy, if a little intense.  That's what most readers like in a hero though, and at first you got intense with Alex.  Then he got creepy.  Not creepy enough in my opinion.  At the end of the book I still wished that someone could have helped Alex.<br />I really wouldn't recommend this book.  It was a fast read, but again, it was very dissapointing.	2002-12-05
US	38350586	R1QWZ1CPUFJ3JV	0451409388	710202909	Night Fires	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast read	Night Fires is a fast paced suspense/romance.  You're able to figure early on who the murderer is.  I think it's pretty obvious.  The story of Garrett broke my heart and J.T.'s plight was also heart wrenching.  I like to read about characters who you can relate to and really understand.  That is the only reason I didn't give this book five stars.  I don't think Dare went into enough depth with the character of the characters!  I do think it is worth the read though.	2002-12-04
US	38350586	RCEB0KXPF10MD	0446527041	487696263	The Crush	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great book	This is another hit of Brown's.  Her suspense novels are excellent. I've read a few of her romances, but her suspense romances are much better reads.  I love how Brown doesn't just write from the hero and heroine's point of view.  <br />In The Crush she took us into the mind of a physcopath (Lozada)who developed a 'crush' on the forewoman of the jury who aquitted him of murder.  He is obssesed with Rennie.  He shows his \\"love\\" for her by murdering a collegue of hers due to the fact that he got picked for a promotion over her.  <br />Bring in Wick, ex-cop and heartthrob.  (They always are) Lozada murdered Wick's brother and then ruined the investigation that would have put him in jail.  He finally gets his chance to put Lozada away for good if he helps his ex-partner.<br />At first he thinks that Rennie is in a league w/ Lozada.  Then he comes to find out that she is being stalked and vows that he will do anything to protect her.  They fall in love, blah, blah, blah.  It really is worth the read and I rarely find a hardback that I will buy since they are so much more expensive!	2002-11-12
US	38350586	R887W48VNM7RZ	0380769557	752724805	Autumn Lover (Only Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great book...	Elyssa and Hunter were fabulous.  I thought that it was a great book w/ a great storyline.  If you liked this book, you will also like Winter Fire.	2002-11-04
US	38350586	RHS1MXU4CNS5M	0380791021	829712189	Simply Love	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A sweet love story	I really enjoyed this book.  Luke and Cassandra's story was very sweet to read.  It was also sad.  I had a hard time believing that anyone could be as naive and innocent as Cassie.  I also got really mad when Luke set up the Zerek men to go to jail.  Other than that I really enjoyed the changes Luke went through to learn how to love and I thought it was a great ending.  Defenitly worth the read!	2002-10-31
US	38350586	R15ENEIBFYGUZ6	0515131520	502406772	Darkling I Listen	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Loved it!	I thought this book was great!!  It's a definite keeper.  The chemistry between Alyson and Brandon was red hot.  You don't really know for sure who Anticipating is, but you get a clue pretty quick.  I think Brandon is one of my favorite heros.  He wasn't afraid to admit being afraid.  He admitted it like no other hero I have ever read and it wasn't just fear of losing Alyson.  Sutcliffe made Brandon real.  She made him a guy with everyday feelings and emotions.  The suspense was great.  The end of the book had me on the edge of my seat!!	2002-10-31
US	38350586	RJ6G9X6U4ALAZ	0446364797	374923273	The Silken Web	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A nice love story	I enjoyed this book.  If you're looking for a book that is strictly romance, this is a good one.  Kathleen and Eric's story is heartbreaking.  Circumstances tore them apart and when they found each other again it is impossible to be together.  Seth is so sweet in this book I found myself rooting for him a little bit.  A great book.	2002-10-31
US	38350586	R3ULSUQZW24WWI	0440222087	285244573	A Woman of Passion	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Dissapointed...	This was my first Henley book.  I was very dissapointed.  There were times that I thought Bess was a great heroine.  The rest of the time I thought she was a selfish witch.  Everything she did was for her own gain.  I liked the beginning of the book, but then I think that it dragged on and on.  I have one other Henley book that I will try to read and I sure hope that it is better than this one!	2002-10-30
US	38350586	R1DW71Y8UHIM4D	0446361739	638715773	Slow Heat in Heaven	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Great Book...	I thought this book was pretty good.  It took about 100 pages before I was really hooked.  All I can say is that the sex must have been great for Schyler to put up with what a jerk Cash was.  I thought some of his sexist remarks went a little overboard.  It's a classic case of wanting something you never thought you were good enough for.  Along with a great plot, it was for a pretty good read.  I really liked how it ended with Cash saying something he'd never told anybody else.  I thought that was really sweet.	2002-10-28
US	38350586	RY9HZDUAI4DM8	0446356859	557900413	Sunset Embrace (Coleman Family Saga)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Loved it, loved it, loved it	This was a great romance.  I didn't think I was going to be able to get into it, but it turned out being well worth reading.  Ross and Lydia were the sweetest couple.  I felt bad for Ross since it took him awhile to realize the thing he loved about Victoria was that she made him feel respectable.  I thought a few of the things he said to Lydia were a little mean though.	2002-10-27
US	38350586	R3HDNV15GX3GL9	B00005VAGB	966528886	Above and Beyond	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Pretty good book	This book had a great storyline.  Guy falls in love with girl through letters to her husband, who is guy's best friend.  Of course he feels like it's his fault his best friend died.  The letters get him through two years of recovery then he goes to make girl fall in love with him.  It was a really sweet story.  They only thing I didn't like is how Kyla kept saying to herself that she promised her husband that she would be faithful to him until she died.  If she honestly asked herself if her husband would want that for her she would know the answer.  I thought that was the only thing that went a little too far.  Overall, worth reading.	2002-10-27
US	38350586	R3PFIV1MN0OSV8	0446353930	626455459	Best Kept Secrets	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Great read	I thought this book was great.  The plot was great with lots of twists and turns.  I thought it was a little creepy that Reede was instramental in making sure Alex was born though.  Besides that, it was great and worth the time to read.	2002-10-27
US	38350586	R3LEYOVOKUUY5L	0446356875	74043995	Another Dawn	Books	2	6	14	N	N	Very dissapointed	I was very dissapointed in this book.  Jake aka Bubba has been in love with Lydia for the past twenty years.  Where is there a 16 year old that falls in love and stays in love for twenty years?  Banner was spoiled and selfish.  The secondary characters were horrible. Priscilla wanted respectability when she was the one that wanted to become a...  It kept going back and forth with Jake and Banner.  They'd get along then they'd fight, etc...  I thought that was unacceptable to this series.  Overall it was a big dissapointment.	2002-10-27
US	38350586	RX0FXW7T7XRHU	0553576038	819223696	Thursday's Child	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A fast read	Thursday's Child was a good read if you want a simple romance.  I read it in a few hours and thought it was pretty good.  It's not like most of the Brown books I read and I would try to find it used if possible.	2002-10-27
US	38350586	R3ST93LJYTRU8A	0758204272	656376580	The Lover	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Loved it, loved it, loved it....	Robin Schone is a great author of erotic romance.  She really gets it done if you want lots of great sex and a great plot.  Her books are confusing while you're reading them, but it all falls together in the end, and quite nicely I might add.  Michael is a truly great hero and Anne is a very coreagous woman.  Definetly recommend.	2002-10-21
US	38350586	R1Q6Q5D8XNZ6D5	1575666987	237226624	Gabriel's Woman	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Loved it, loved it, loved it....	Robin Schone does it again.  Gabriel's Woman is the sequel to The Lover.  I couldn't put it down.  Again, everything just falls in to place.  Gabriel is your normal brooding and anguished hero whom the heroine saves with her love.  Schone's books are very intense with very little humor in the characters.  That's the only thing that could use improvement, but humor wasn't called for in this book.	2002-10-21
US	38350586	R13IJJQUPT0YJT	051511801X	331783082	Devotion	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Really good book	I was really into this book from the beginning.  I didn't like to duke in Miracles, but he was vastly improved in Devotion.  Maria preached a little too much I thought.  She claimed to want to get away from her father, the Vicar, but she just kept preaching to the duke.  I didn't like the ending at all.  It ended too abrubtly like the author didn't want to finish.  Above all, I would recommend this book.	2002-10-18
US	38350586	R234L3JC31SSAO	1575669072	798558310	Awaken, My Love (Brava Historical Romance)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Good, but not as good as I'd hoped.	I was really excited about this book.  I love reading time travel books however, this one was lacking.  Charles just wasn't the type of hero that I like to read in a book.  Elaine was boring and unimaginative.  This is only my second Schone book, so hopefully the next one will be better.  I would recommend this book, just don't go rush out to get it.	2002-10-18
US	38350586	R1IYLVJJ06W12Z	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Hot, hot, hot!!!	I LOVED this book.  It had hot sex and a great plot.  Normally you can't get both.  I first read her in All Through the Night.  She doesn't have many books out and I heard her next one will be about Connor McCloud and Erin Riggs who were characters in Behind Closed Doors.  I definitley recommend this book to anyone who loves hot romance!!	2002-10-16
US	38350586	RI65H6MQK985Z	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A wild ride....	Seth Mackey is on a mission to bring down the man that is reponsible for the murder of his brother.  He will do anything to bring the international businessman, Victor Lazar, down.  He starts by putting survelliance on a house that Lazar's mistress stays in.  Pretty soon he is hooked by what he sees on the screen.  He constantly asks himself how someone so innocent looking can be involved with a man as deadly as Lazar.  Soon Seth finds himself in a haze of desire so potent, he wants to run in the opposite direction.<br />Raine Cameron has no idea that she is being watched.  She has her own agenda, which includes finding the truth of her father's death seventeen years ago.  The logical place to start is at her Lazar's company, since he was her father's brother.  What Raine didn't expect was Seth Mackey.  Seth makes her feel things that she's never felt before and she revels in the feeling, even if he does exert his control over her too often for her taste.  <br />Together, Seth and Raine enter a world of danger and lies, where the person that you though you could trust the most will be the first to betray you.  Shannon McKenna brings the reader a highly suspensful and darkly erotic read.  Both characters have emotional baggage, which makes their story all the sweeter.  These are two very intense characters, especially Seth, so if you're looking for a light hearted romance, this isn't the book for you!	2002-09-04
US	38350586	R3V37S2YMWJWNA	156895719X	747316956	The Midnight Hour	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Great Book!	Unlike some other people that were dissapointed in this book, I found it extremely entertaining.  I was very happy that Grace and Tony didn't fall in love within the first few chapters.  I was really surprised at the ending, where the other books of Ms. Robards were VERY predictable.  I really enjoyed seeing the relationship with Grace and Jessica as well as Tony and Jessica.  I would definitley recommend this book to a friend!	2002-03-01
