US	38383958	RCEUZ7K063LSW	0385260938	548715144	The Three Pillars of Zen, 25th Anniversary Updated and Revised Edition	Books	5	17	20	N	N	One of the few authentic and unique books on Zen	Today it seems the west is in a big backwash of Zen related themes. The Zen of Gardening, the Zen of Grooming your Pet, the Zen of brushing your teeth etc. Most of these accounts are by people who wouldn't know Realization if it jumped up and bit them in the rumps. It's due to these circumstances that Philip Kapleau's account of Zen is truly refreshing.  <br /> <br />Roshi Kapleau traveled back to Japan after having been stationed there post World War II to study Zen and stayed for 13 years. When he came back to the west (before the big Zen fad had hit) he longed to share his experiences so that others could come to self-awakening and experience peace of mind. Thus we end up with this wonderful book that contains an abundant wealth of information. You'll find in this book translated talks of Kapleau's own teacher Yasutani Roshi, and also Yasutani's personal teachings with ten different westerners. Later in this book you'll find a section on the enlightenment experience. This section gives 8 different accounts of people from varying ages and occupations and their first person accounts of enlightenment. Also, you'll find illustrations and important instructions on cultivating a meditation practice. Lastly, this book serves as an important reference work. There's a nice glossary and many notes contained in the back, which help to clear up any confusion over terminology, contained in the book. <br /> <br />I found that something new can be found every time you read this book. That's why it really makes a great one to have in your personal collection. As your personal insights grow deeper and your understanding widens certain passages in this book will seem more vivid and real. The last thing I would like to say is that ultimately no book can convey the true nature of Zen or teach you how to attain it. You have to practice for yourself and learn for yourself much like learning how to ride a bike. But while no book can do these things for you this book certainly serves asa nice map to give you instructions to start on the path and then hopefully...ultimately burn the book itself. <br />	2005-04-26
US	38383958	RZJTAJMFFV89L	0743463021	349084791	Advice on Dying: And Living a Better Life	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Fizzles out	This book can be divided up into smaller parts. The first part is a forward by Jeffrey Hopkins which discusses in part the Panchen Lama and also the Dalai Lama. He talks about the identification of these figures and how the Chinese who supposedly have \\"liberated\\" Tibet have started their own identification processes. Hopkins is very critical of Chinese politics and their involvement in Tibet. The second part of the book deals with a 17 stanza poem written by the first Panchen Lama of Tibet. The present Dalai Lama goes on to break down this poem and comment on certain aspects of it. <br /> <br />I enjoyed the first half of this book because of its historical and practical information. The Dalai Lama gives practical advice on how we all need to practice daily and how it's best to have an awareness of death. When we are aware of reality we can conquer any fears we may have about life or the death process. He elaborates on the advantages and the disadvantages of being mindful during the time of death. However, the latter part of the book in my opinion got bogged down in mysticism and myth and was a lot less interesting. It seemed as if I was reading about blind ritual with no practical advice but instead endless comments about esoteric subjects. I found my eyes glossing over more than once. Therefore, the book was okay for some simple wisdom and inspirational advice but it's a chore to keep yourself motivated all the way thru.	2005-04-09
US	38383958	R28ME8NMQAX161	0425130711	680854800	Cold Fire	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Suspenseful page-turner	Jim Ironheart has an uncanny ability for being in the right place at the right time. He gets premonitions of tragic events to take place and somehow saves people from their untimely deaths. He's done this not only all over the US but in other countries as well. What is it that enables Jim to know of these potential happenings? Is it God using him as a savior? These are questions and musings that this novel centers around. There's another main character in the book that is a woman and love interest for Jim who helps him figure out answers to these questions. Together they have to unravel these clues and find out what's in Jim's past that is very dark and mysterious and that wants to ultimately kill them.    For an entertainment novelist I thought Dean Koontz was right on par with this one. I found the characters interesting and the story fast-paced and suspenseful. I won't give away what happens in the story but I'll say if you are looking for an intense but easy-reading book to pass a rainy day with this would be a good one. It's one of the better Koontz novels I've read.	2005-03-23
US	38383958	R3UJ36WJK5RVBN	1594860009	859027556	The New High Intensity Training: The Best Muscle-Building System You've Never Tried	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Enjoyed it but disagreed on some minor points	There is a common more-is-better philosophy that permeates American thought. It spills over from everything including money to bodybuilding. The common popular training approach in bodybuilding is more sets+more reps=bigger muscles. Well anyone who is familiar with High Intensity Training realizes the idea that a muscle only has to be stimulated to maximal effort during one set and allowed to rest in order to grow. As you read the book you'll come into contact with the writing and thoughts of Arthur Jones who was perhaps the first person to start expounding on H.I.T. concepts. This philosophy just makes rational sense and is fascinating to read about. I don't know you'll find anything \\"new\\" in this book but Darden certainly does a nice job of tying everything together and comparing this shorter but harder more intense type of training with the usual longer lower-intensity high volume training. <br /> <br />One area I got annoyed with was Darden's implication that very few people can develop BIG muscular growth. He seems to think most all of us are limited by lack of genetic potential to get a really big physique. One of his methods of determining this is to have a subject measure the gap between his flexed bicep and his elbow joint. If you have a 2-inch gap for instance you have very poor genetic potential. This is a bogus method of assessing muscular potential. Obviously the already big guys are going to have less of a gap since their arms are already filled out. If you were to look at Dorian Yates or Markus Ruhl before each of them started training you may have assumed they had little potential as well. However, we know the kind of mass both of these men eventually added to their frames. <br /> <br />Anyhow, the rest of the book reads nicely with some bodybuilding history, illustrations of exercises and sample HIT routines to try for the beginner, intermediate or advanced athlete. There's a little discussion on nutrition but not much. At the very end there is a little question and answer section, which is helpful to gaining a better understanding of some of the book's ideas. I recommend it to people who think they know it all...to expand their minds a bit and open up to achieving more of their muscle-building potential.	2005-01-30
US	38383958	R30TZIQOGFDFAG	0812973011	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Moving	Mountains Beyond Mountains is an excellent work of inspiration and hope. Obviously it's a look inside the life and career of Dr. Paul Farmer. Farmer came from a meager background but excelled enough in his studies to find himself in a unique position. He could doctor to the world-not just the affluent but the poor. Perhaps the people who need it most.  At a young age Farmer found himself visiting Haiti (one of the poorest and most third-world of places) and was changed forever. He set up a health clinic there that provides services to the poor and even occasionally hikes hours into the countryside of this tumultuous country to call on patients. This book shows that being a good human, that is, doing what's right pays off even if everyone doesn't follow suit. Farmer wouldn't like it but this book shows him to be a moral exemplar of how we all should be. Throughout the book you'll read about how Farmer has been involved globally to help eradicate TB in places like Peru and Russian prisons, how he has spoken at various forums around the world to show that each patient is a priority regardless of if it is cost-effective or not to treat them. Also, one comes to realize by Farmer's example and efforts that there are more important things in the world than accumulating wealth. What's the old saying that it's better to give than to receive? Early on in the book one of Farmer's patients proclaims that he's a saint. After reading the book it's easy to see why.	2005-01-19
US	38383958	RCPVP1R6RVM1F	0553801430	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Entertaining but a little too Fairy-Taleish	This story starts out great. 3 characters are brought together by chance and circumstance and injected with an evil substance of God knows what by a mad scientist type of man. They have to do research to find out what they've been injected with and also exactly what is at store in their future. They come to learn that each of them has developed some type of supernatural-like abilities which will come in handy later while dodging reckless gunmen. However, later on the story kind of fizzles out because every time the author develops a jam for the characters or a tough situation they just seem to solve it by the snap of their fingers..Kaput..Over. I don't have a problem suspending disbelief but I found the childish solutions and happy-sappy endings to be a little more than I could fathom. There is no doubt that Dean Koontz is a master of suspense and story-telling but I feel some of the scenes should have been condensed to avoid getting glazed-over eyes and that the intensity of the story faded later on in the book. The book would have been far better if the author had cut out some of the more frivolous parts and stuck to the compelling story that started at the beginning of the book.	2005-01-02
US	38383958	RH2891W3A37CX	0312194587	203724250	Gorilla Suit: My Adventures In Bodybuilding	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One Man's Captivating Account of the Bodybuilding World	This is the story of Bob Paris and his rise in the bodybuilding world. The book starts from his earliest days as a child in Indiana coming across muscle magazines and tinkering with weights. The book then takes us later to California where Bob struggles and hits upon some VERY difficult times. Right when you think he can't go anymore he manages to start winning some bodybuilding shows and enjoying a certain level of success. Unfortunately, things are never as pretty as they seem. The Weiders (Joe and Ben) have controlled bodybuilding for years and did so at the writing of this book. Since they owned most of the major magazines in the sport that offered any kind of publicity and also ran the IFBB federation it was best to stay on their good side. There are many stories of them keeping an athlete's money, taking back certain promises, and basically running a monopoly of the sport. Bob had difficulties with Joe Weider from the start, which probably were only worsened by the fact that Bob was gay.  At the time most publications (whether they admitted it or not) did not want an openly gay man in their magazines.  Nevertheless Bob grew disillusioned with the sport partly because of the Weider's and also partly because of ethical issues such as drug use within the sport. It's a shame because even though he did manage to win some big amateur contests he never really fully achieved his potential as a pro.  Therefore, he eventually decided to walk away but did leave us with details of his career in the form of this book.  The one problem I had with the book is that I would have liked for it to be a little more developed. I also didn't really care for the style that bounces back and forth from the present to the past but I still thought it was a good read.  It's a very eye-opening book about the bodybuilding world that is sure to touch your emotions in one way or another.	2004-12-08
US	38383958	R265A3HH4F1NBG	0380717638	172404459	Muscle: Confessions of an Unlikely Bodybuilder	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun and Tragic at the same time.	Samuel Fussell lived in NY and so happened to run across a book about Arnold and bodybuilding. Fussell prematurely assumed that bodybuilding would be the answer to his insecurities and problems. Therefore, he joined the YMCA and started learning about training as a bodybuilder. He became so encaptured by it that he decided to move to Bodybuilding's Mecca, Southern California, to make his way as a competitive bodybuilder. He joins a gym there and befriends other bodybuilders who help him along and give him pointers etc. as Fussell continues his relentless training. There are funny episodes of his friends in this book and also Fussell himself. However, other instances in the book show more of a grim side of bodybuilding as Fussell's butt aches from steroid injections and he becomes so obsessive-compulsive that he almost nonstop thinks about and pursues bodybuilding to the exclusion of everything else. He ends up competing in some contests (altho I won't say how he placed) but the preparation for the contests turned out to be too taxing for him. The extreme dieting and rigors of trying to uphold an ideal of perfection led him to give it all up. He came full circle to realize bodybuilding wouldn't solve all his problems and that he still felt empty inside despite however big a suit of armor he wore. I found this part tragic as bodybuilding is such a great avenue for people to better themselves and build up self-esteem and confidence. Unfortunately, if you get involved for the wrong reasons as with anything else it can become a mere masking point for much more serious and deep-held issues of inadequacy. A good book that I think everyone can find merit in.	2004-11-13
US	38383958	R2HRVWTQ1CHL29	0684869101	898878692	The Adonis Complex: The Secret Crisis of Male Body Obsession	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Food for thought with a decent amount of nonsense thrown in.	This is a work I've seen many other reviewers label as \\"groundbreaking\\" or \\"eye-opening\\". Although this book does raise some valid questions about males and obsession with body-image, I don't know that many great insights come out of it.  The book goes into some detail about how women for years have been the target of the media and society to be \\"thinner\\" in an attempt to look as good as the models on magazine covers. In other words, there is something wrong with looking ordinary. Now the coin has been flipped and the media has saturated us with numerous images of Adonis-like God-men who have perfect bodies and chiseled abs. Understandably enough, some men feel as if they don't measure up to this image or ideal and develop hang-ups over being chubby or ordinary. We further find out from this book that some men obsess about body image and oftentimes muscularity because they associate this with masculinity. Groundbreaking news there! This has led some men to develop muscular dysmorphia or BDD (body dysmorphic disorder) which is basically an unhealthy preoccupation with a body-part, or image that is not grounded in reality.  The book goes on to suggest therapy or antidepressant medication to help treat these more severe cases. If not treated men could do very scary things such as use steroids. The book is comical when it comes to steroids. These bright authors claim that any man who attains a high level of muscularity and claims to not use steroids is a liar. This struck a nerve with me. I know several people in the bodybuilding and fitness world who have never used illegal steroids and most certainly do have high levels of muscularity. I find it rather insulting that these so-called PhDs take it upon themselves to call these people who have worked their behinds off with exercise and diet a bunch of liars. What is even more comical is that in this book these grave scenarios are given of what happens to men who use steroids. We are told of murders, violence against women, beatings etc..but then told shortly later that the percentages of these occurrences are rather low and that major complications or side-effects from these drugs are not always that common. Mixed signals here??  In my opinion the book would have been much better if the authors would have stuck to the facts instead of trying to use scare tactics to dissuade people from trying steroids or other muscle-building supplements. The last ridiculous notion I found in the book was the idea that one of the main reasons men have become preoccupied with muscularity nowadays is because of a rise in feminism in our time. This is just beyond classic. I'd love to see objective scientific research showing that men subconsciously hit the gym to try and build up muscles whenever women make gains in feminism. I couldn't help but chuckle over this one. In fact, I am sure when women gained the right to vote men went out in droves and started doing military presses with buckets or cement blocks because they felt this new \\"feminism\\" threatened their last shred of masculinity. The authors themselves in the book claim that masculinity is not necessarily associated with muscularity so they think they are the only ones that can figure this out? The rest of men are just stupid neanderthals who can't grasp the concept that bigger muscles don't equate to more masculinity? Please! I'll give the book a three based simply on the fact that it's nice to see someone look at the male side of the coin for a change but it definitely needed a higher dosage of objectivism and a deletion of some of the more silly notions found in its pages.	2004-11-09
US	38383958	R20CPKTDLB2P0Q	0879755350	904995410	The Faith Healers	Books	4	16	21	N	N	I have exorcised the demons!	What areas concerning people's beliefs are most easily exploitable by con-artists? Without a doubt it would have to be religious beliefs. Faith Healers tackles this subject and uses investigations carried out by James Randi of many so-called faith healers as its material.  Some of the faith healers investigated are W.V. Grant, A.A. Allen, Peter Popoff, Oral Roberts and even Pat Robertson.     Randi starts with a little background into the phenomenon of supernatural beliefs in humans and its origins before the advent of science. Ironically enough, even with the scientific progress we've made many laypeople still denounce it as either an object of Satan or incapable of bringing the blessings of faith.  Throughout this book Randi issues a challenge to the faith healers to produce evidence for their so-called healings and have independent doctors make statements regarding the claims etc. Surprisingly enough there is not one faith healer that is able to produce and substantiate claims of healing. In fact, it's very sad to read about people even dying after attending a religious service and believing their affliction was healed by one of these \\"televangelist\\" types. I found it also interesting to read about some of the exposures of the practices of these healers. Many of them have lists generated by a computer (with only individual names changed) and sent out to gullible people asking for money. Many times these means are how the healers support themselves. Prey on the public and beg for money that \\"Jesus needs\\".    This book serves as a lesson that no matter what are beliefs may be we should never fail to exercise restraint in the face of terrific claims and also always keep our rational abilities intact. By using reason alone a lot of us could avoid being duped and potentially deceived into believing lies which only serve to fatten TV preachers' pockets.     This book I would rate a 4 despite the eye-opening information it contains. The reason is the subject matter is somewhat long (over 300 pages) and I feel many people unless acquainted with who these healers are may lose interest after reading about similar cases. But nonetheless still a good read.	2004-10-21
US	38383958	R18K27IXRDWHJ5	0385509472	159804419	Diary: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not his best work	First off, I consider myself a Chuck Palahniuk fan and have read all of his previous novels. Therefore, I was rather excited to start reading this one. However, once I got into the book a bit that quickly changed. The plot basically centers around an island conspiracy to save a rich-but-soon-to-be-poor island by finding and procuring a tortured artist. The artist will evidently be the savior but these twilight-zone like episodes will be repeated over and over with new reincarnations of this tortured artist character. Sound confusing? Anyway, in his other books I always found Palahniuk's best trait to be his lively and entertaining (if not eccentric) characters. In this book we basically have a vegetable-of-a-man who tried to kill himself, the tortured artist Misty, Misty's daughter Tabbi, and a few other minor island characters. In other words, who cares? These characters are extremely dry and boring. The book itself doesn't contain the bits of Palahniuk wisdom that you'll find sprinkled throughout works like Fight Club and it is a chore to complete. I had a very difficult time motivating myself to plow through it. The book does contain some similarities to other Palahniuk books as far as writing style but it appears his ghost showed up to complete it. I still consider Palahniuk a good and talented writer and hopefully he will rebound to his true form in the future. Let's keep our fingers crossed!	2004-07-15
US	38383958	R1YXAKKO7NIJ4W	0743215362	869948861	Tesla: Man Out of Time	Books	2	16	25	N	N	Disappointing	Already knowing something about Tesla's eccentric character I was excited to read this book. However, I soon found it confusing, poorly writen, and very easy to put down.  Tesla himself is an interesting character who perhaps doesn't get the credit he deserves and his story should be told. He was largely responsible for our advances using alternating current, better understanding of electricity, and he also produced many other inventions. Some of his inventions fell more to the theoretical as opposed to practical side but there can be no doubt that he was a veritable intellect. The problem with Cheney is the book focuses too much on other people instead of Tesla and very little in the way of describing the history of Tesla as a man or of Tesla's character is expounded upon in this book. Instead we are given a bunch of little episodes about Tesla interspersed with droning technical detail. This was supposed to be a biography and not a technical journal. As an example allow me to post part of one of her paragraphs:<br />     *The relevance of ball lightning to fusion research has to do with the problem of confining plasma.  The heart of the most common type of experimental fusion reaction involves taking isotopic hydrogen gas and both accelerating and superheating it until the hydrogen nuclei fuse to make helium nuclei, releasing, in the process, staggering amounts of energy.  Along the way, while the hydrogen is being charged with vast amounts of kinetic and thermal energy, it enters an imperfectly understood material state known as plasma* <br />Now, boy doesn't that make for compelling reading! Besides these rather boring technical interludes the book does have a middle section with photographs and smidgets of insight which help prevent making the book a complete waste. Perhaps, most irritatingly to me was the way Cheney was disorganized and bounced around in time. It was hard to tell if she was talking about the younger or the older Tesla and if she was discussingsomething that already happened or that was occuring later in his life. Anyway, this is a shame because Tesla is without doubt someone worth studying but based on the things I've mentioned I would have to suggest a different biography.	2004-06-03
US	38383958	RW41TWN67Q01B	0061015725	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Prototypical Crichton Novel	First off this novel contains several elements similar to most Crichton novels. They are as follows: 1.) One or two main characters with several subsidiary characters 2.) Tragedy meeting a couple of the subsidiary characters which we don't feel strong attachment to 3.) Elements of science and technology even though you don't have to be an expert in the technology to grasp the story 4.) Disastrous consequences when humans either underestimate the technology being dealt with or catastrophic results from something just not going as originally planned.<BR>Having summed up those elements familiar to most of his novels this book is fairly decent. It deals with a father named Jack who is a Mr. Mom type recently out of work at a computer company. He has a wife who is now the worker in the family for a company named Xymos. This Xymos company is basically trying to create cameras using nanotechnology. In other words, amazingly small particles not discernible to the human eye which can be used to do all sorts of things from looking into the human body (as in the case of small cameras) to being little factory builders for other uses. This is supposed to be the new coming thing. Nanotechnology. Anyway, Jack's wife and some other factory workers somehow release some of these nanoparticle swarms they are working with into the desert. There are a bunch of other factors involved such as environment, sunlight, temperature and all that but these particles basically learn how to evolve. Through evolution they threaten to keep getting somewhat smarter collectively and to put the whole human race on the brink of collapse if not stopped. Jack, being the hero that he is, realizes what may happen and manages through certain circumstances to be in the right place at the right time (the fab plant at Xymos) and with the right amount of brains to stop this impending disaster. I won't give the story away and there are several twists and turns throughout the book. The thing I feel Crichton did the best was to make the novel suspenseful and mysterious. There was enough mystery to keep you reading ahead to see if you could figure out what was going to happen next...Which made for a fairly enjoyable reading experience.  This book isn't a masterpiece but if you are looking for a suspenseful mystery with elements of science and technology pick it up and give it a try.	2004-05-26
US	38383958	R2FQOSFSTIJTRX	157062870X	923051757	The Recorded Sayings of Zen Master Joshu	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Perhaps Better to Not Ask the Question	This is one of those enigmatic works that's definitely not easy to figure out. Joshu, of course was one of the great Zen masters of Ancient China. He's especially known for his Mu answer in response to the question does a dog have a Buddha nature. This work expounds on the collected sayings of Joshu. It's only 180 or so pages and divided into small stanzas and what-not. However, it takes a while for this stuff to sink in because you can't really understand it by using your intellectual mind. My suggestion is to read the book through the first time without letting yourself get caught up in trying to decipher it. Let it settle into your mind like a pebble settling onto the bottom of a body of water and then come back to it. It's definitely not an introductory work for the novice wanting to learn about Zen or something like that. These are ancient collected sayings which are really one large koan. I do recommend the book for people seriously interested in Zen study, but I won't suggest this for anyone just wanting to learn a general knowledge about Zen.  This book wasn't quite as rich as I expected and therefore I was a little disappointed but I suppose there is still some merit in it.	2004-05-20
US	38383958	R1XR1C6ELMR49J	0670031410	978709002	Thieves in High Places: They've Stolen Our Country--And It's Time to Take It Back	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Beware of BushCo and the Like	Imagine a country ruled by thieves. A country ruled by elites content upon transferring money from the many to the few. A country that preys upon your fears and worries to invade every aspect of your privacy. This is much the image we get (and rightly so) of the government of the US as told to us by Jim Hightower. This book is a modern-day analysis of our current country and the diminishing of our democracy. Mr. Hightower urges us to be vigilant, brave and to take it back once again making it a country of the people and for the people. <br />In the first part of the book Hightower talks about the corporate greedheads and other thieves who like nothing more than to evade paying taxes and enrich themselves at the expense of those Americans struggling to make it. He later goes on to elaborate BushCo's role in not only being complicit and catering to these corporate greedheads but also enriching themselves and filling key positions in the Gov. with none other than former corporate &quot;leaders&quot; (?).  <br />Throughout the book Hightower uses his characteristic wit and humor to make the book highly entertaining and pleasurable. No one is spared. He pummels Bush, Ashcroft, Ridge, Democrats, Enron, Worldcom, sweatshops, and others. A part of the book that I particularly enjoyed was a chapter on the behemoth beast Walmart. Think Walmart is your friendly, cheery, happy store down the street that just loves to bring you Christian values and super-duper low prices? Think again. Hightower exposes them for the greedy sharks they are. They exploit overseas labor in China, and pay domestic workers here little-to-none all in their quest for global empire and riches. He also explains how their money is funneled out of the local economy and into coroprate headquarters in Arkansas. Something to think about the next time you go shopping at your local &quot;roll back America&quot; store. <br />Anyway, anyone of any political persuasion can benefit from reading this book. You will come away being more informed, humored and angered than before. Hopefully, you will also feel somewhat compelled to stand up for yourself and to do what you need to do to help bring real democracy back to America and prevent these elitist rich boys from taking over what is so great about this country.	2004-05-18
US	38383958	R2B6DPZJAJG5CW	0671888021	937318659	Lame Deer, Seeker of Visions (Enriched Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable Account of a Man's Life	Lame Deer was many things in his life. He was an outlaw, lawman, rodeo clown, and Indian medicine man.  At a later point in his life Lame Deer came to meet an artist living in NY named Richard Erdoes. The men decided to collaborate together to write a book about the life of Lame Deer. Lame Deer himself was a Sioux medicine man trained in the ways of the old ones. This book is gripping and humorous. The first part recounts many funny personal stories about Lame Deer's life and his run-ins with the law, his personal feelings about the present state of the US, and his own thoughts about what it means to be an Indian. The latter part of the book focuses on ceremonies like the sundance, sweatlodge gatherings and also discussion about the sacred pipe.  Lame Deer explains how important symbolism is to the Indian and also explains a good deal of Indian mythology in the latter part of the book which helps the average reader get inside the minds of these people and their beliefs. Throughout this book the reader will come to develop an emotional affinity with Lame Deer. You find yourself feeling how he does about pollution, broken promises, and disregard for sacred beliefs. It's very compelling. Sadly, we are also told much about how Indians faired badly at the hands of white guns, diseases and white &quot;instant gratification&quot; attitudes. I don't think the book was perfect because Erdoes was not an actual writer at the time although he did a decent job putting the book in literary form. I suppose he should at least be lauded for helping us to interpret Indian mysteries.  My only major gripe about this book was that it wasn't longer.	2004-05-12
US	38383958	R1AV33MYOY4C7W	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Culturally Significant Book	What processes enabled certain societies to become powerful and innovative? Why did Europeans come to dominate much of the world and the New World? Why did history unfold differently on different continents? These are the questions that this culturally significant work sets out to answer. For the most part the author does a good job. Without going into detail some of the reasons are; the east-west axis orientation of Eurasia as compared to the north-south axis orientation found on other contients like Africa and the Americas, Eurasia's abundance of plants and animals available for domestication as contrasted to the scarcity of them elsewhere, Europeans resistance to germs that were never encountered till modern times by native american peoples, and agriculturally producing societies with dense populations that could support a sedentary lifestyle where people were able to innovate and create new technologies. These explanations for why certain peoples displaced others or why certain peoples such as European colonists who settled Australia were able to form literate agriculturally producing societies in contrast to Aborginies who had been there for 1000s of years and never managed to do it are much better than previous outdated ones. The causes and reasons leading to different histories of different peoples have much more to do with geography and environment as opposed to being caused by innate differences in the peoples themselves. The author has obviously researched the subject in-depth (as far as possible upon him) and presented his findings in several chapters. The chapters take these reasons and expound upon them while offering evidence and showing different chains of causation. I found the book mostly interesting and lively although it read somewhat slow because of the statistics and facts contained throughout. By the time you get to the end of the book you will definitely have the themes of it pounded into your head as the author details them over and over. Inmy opinion it would have been better to condense redundant details but still a fantastic book that's definitely worth a read. Sometimes I found myself getting a little dulled because in the latter part of the book the author focuses on the expansion of languages and the conclusions we can draw from them as to whom settled where and when. Some of the other parts of the book were a little techincal as well but there were also some fascinating chapters that kept your attention like the ones talking about the Spanish invasion of Incan lands. I recommend this book for its ability to change racist (and incorrect) views of human history and also its ability to enlighten and hopefully educate humans to the point of understanding causes of events and outcomes better.  Good read.	2004-05-07
US	38383958	R26G4ZFVOEJXCV	0465083579	123213530	The Age Of Terror: America And The World After September 11	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Decent collection of essays but a little dated.	This is basically a bunch of essays by academics (mostly from Yale) that consists of describing certain elements as related to terrorism and US policy. The academics who composed these essays range from professors of history, law, political science, and there's one molecular biologist.  I found most of these essays relevant and interesting from the point of view of examining globalism and also the political roots of fundamentalist Islam. Some of these commentators take the viewpoint that America needs to protect its dominant position and assume an imperalist attitude to do so. I found a little fault with that. I believe cooperation and tolerance is the key. Other commentators illustrate the point that we must be aggressive in combating terrorism and also learn productive measures to combat a potential bioterrorist attack. Most of this is common sense but each writer puts their own spin on it relating to the field they teach about. A little bit of the book was rough because it seemed to be put together rather hastily without proper editing. Also, there were two essays that got pretty dry and read more like reading some kind of intelligence memo. I found myself having to fight boredom a couple of times. Lastly, there were many comparisons drawn in the book between 9-11 and Pearl Harbor or even Britain's position as the dominant power 100 yrs earlier. This was somewhat tedious because we've heard these comparisons over and over. They are true to an extent but there has never been anything quite like 9-11 happen before. I don't know that we'll find any fool-proof answers to the problems of terror that we all face in a changing world in this book. However, it's good that books like this one open up the discussion so that we may dare to think about such matters before we are caught off guard. If you want something to pass the time that concerns political matters and is relatively accessible you should read this book. It's not spectacular but it's okay.	2004-04-29
US	38383958	R206PXX379E8T9	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A Little Far-Fetched	First and foremost I think Elaine Pagels writes nicely. She gives her work a nice tone and it flows easily. This book itself seems to contrast an apparently ancient work, the Gospel of Thomas, to one of the main works in the Four Formed Gospel, John. The Gospel of Thomas was discovered with some other works hid away in a field in the town of Nag Hammadi in upper Egypt. Apparently these works which oppose orthodox Christianity were hid there to preserve them from being destroyed. Pagels herself was apparently disillusioned with orthodox Christianity at an early age and asked herself 'how could people with different beliefs be condemned to hell?' Therefore, she has found great comfort in works like the Gospel of Thomas which seem to say the Truth of God can be found within as opposed to John which says Jesus is the way to the Truth etc. The Gospel of Thomas has a bit of similarity with Buddhist thought (especially Zen) which emphasizes looking to oneself for ultimate answers and also the idea that we only lose perfection through not realizing our Buddha natures. For these reasons this book is actually an interesting read but I can't give it a high rating because I find it fanciful to say the least. There is a reason John was included in the gospels of the new testament by the early Christians. I don't believe like Pagels does that John was written perhaps to refute the more heretic book of Thomas. Secondly, John seems to have much in common with the synoptic gospels even though Pagels proclaims it doesn't. If you do a thorough check of the information you will see for yourself. I simply cannot believe that for nearly two thousand years we've all been duped about how Christianity should have been. I have no doubts that Pagels has some merit of scholarship but I do not feel she's above and beyond the many scholars who have looked and written about this issue extensively. To put it simply: Pagels doesn't give any strong proof for us to accept the Gospel of Thomas and also other so-called secret works. <br />Throughout the book Pagels gives us an account of a man named Irenaeus, the bishop of Lyons, and his struggle to suppress what he viewed as heretical works of the day being put forth. <BR>Later in this book Pagels goes on to give a minor historical account of the Nicene Creed. Of course, this was the time when the orthodox doctrines were agreed upon by most of the Christian leaders and would shape the universal Catholic church in the future. Perhaps distressingly to &quot;true&quot; Christians the concept or idea of the Trinity was solidified here. We are also told about a bishop who held a contrary view, (as did some other Christians at this time) Arius.  However, ultimately the emperor Constantine who had been a Christian convert prevailed and we have what constitutes orthodoxy today. My point here being that Pagels did a good job of providing interesting reading. Her minor tracing of history keeps you interested enough to plow ahead. It's a shame the other parts of the book didn't have more support or weight to help make them more convincing. This is what ultimately causes this book to fall short.	2004-04-26
US	38383958	R27EW7LKPF9JV7	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Strange book to say the least	This book starts off as the typical SF novel of the 50s. A crewship heading to Mars from Earth etc. However, by page 3 they are all dead. We learn of a guy named Valentine Michael Smith as the [love child] of two of the ship's crewmates. This man comes to Earth as basically an idiot who later learns to \\"grok\\" or understand a little about human culture. He develops powers, forms relationships, forms a church and longs for the truth whatever that may be. His intelligence vastly increases and he seeks to help humans discover the truth and realize their own natures.  Repeatedly throughout the book he utters the statement \\"Thou are God.\\" This seems to be one of the book's themes. That the idea of God is within all of us because we are all essentially God.  This story is revered in many Science Fiction cirlces and is kind of a cultural icon to earlier groups like the hippies. For me though the story just didn't groove. There were too many dull periods when one of the characters would sermonize on philosophical points. I love philosophy but these characters were sermonizing on how Judeo-Christian culture is defunct and that the old moral norms do not apply to our day. This is somewhat true but at the same time seems to be a justification for letting anything go as long as it feels right. (...) free love, and down with anything that tells us how we should behave. This message seems to be outdated and one of rebellion against so-called oppressive times of the past. Therefore, I found it hard to get really interested since it seems like old hat. Another point about this book to its credit is that you don't have to be a big SF fan to read it. There's not any activity taking place on other planets or in space. There are some SF-like gadgets but for the most part the story centers around characters and plot. Some of the characters are interesting. Like the old lawyer Father-figure Jubal and like Mike (The Martian) himself. However, as I said I thought some of the settings and places of the characters got rather dull and then the last part of the book when it goes into depth about the church formed by Mike and his followers carried on way too long. Despite these points there are some nuggets of wisdom contained in the book and there are also some funny happenings in the book. But for the most part I was rather puzzled by what the fuss concerning this book was all about. It's okay. Perhaps I didn't \\"grok\\" it in fullness.	2004-04-22
US	38383958	R1A2SPJIU47FRA	0192861298	135276594	Created from Animals: The Moral Implications of Darwinism (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	4	4	12	N	N	Darwin Sycophant	The first part of this book is primarily a brief Darwin biography. From there the author proceeds to delve into deeper questions regarding morality, ethics, sociobiological ethics and the sacredness of human life.<BR>The main thesis of this work is that 'Darwinism leads inevitably to the abandonment of the idea of human dignity and the substitution of a different sort of ethic.'  In other words in former times our culture had a &quot;traditionalist ethic&quot;. This states that God is the head honcho, created humans and other animals, endowed man with superior abilities and that animals are the subject of man who for the most part can choose to do whatever he wants to with animals. Rachels' point is that this ethic has been usurped by a Darwinian ethic which states that man and his capacities are no different than animals even if man has a superior level of rationality. In Rachels' view this is how we should look at the world 'post-Darwinian'. The idea that man is above and beyond animals is now moot since we are all related. This is an interesting point but regardless of whether you believe in God or Darwin's notion one still cannot escape that fact that man is significantly different from animals owing to his rational abilities. It's not just a minor difference, but rather a major difference. This is why man has certain standards of morality that you would never ascribe to animals.  This is why it's okay for mankind to subject animals to his whims a bit as long as he's compassionate. The whole idea of evolution seems to show that we (or whoever objectively) value what has the greatest quality of life on an evolutionary scale. Therefore, man comes before monkeys and monkeys come before worms in order of importance. A rather simple concept. Rachels doesn't drive this point home convincingly enough but seems to continually harp upon the similarities of man and animals. Rachels is an advocate of moral individualism. This idea basically says that matters have to be evaluated individually to see if there is a relevant difference between them that would compel us to act a certain way. I think Rachels was trying to establish the concept of accepting this new morality of moral individualism over the older ideas of morality. However, I don't think he drives this point home well enough. There are some examples but not overwhelmingly crisp ones. Also he seems to regard Darwin as somewhat sacred. Obviously many objections are being raised to some of the Darwinian ideas contained in evolutionary theory as of today. This means in the mode of proper science we should tentatively accept theories that seem to be more true while reserving the right to change our minds in light of more solid evidence for something else. We shouldn't just bow down to Darwin because he somewhat originally published many of the ideas of our current frame of thought. Also, it is to be noted that this book seems to run through theoretical examples as if just for fun without getting to a clear point. Some ideas are repeated through the diff. chapters. This is okay if you have nothing better to do but I would have appreciated it if the book took a more serious approach to finding answers instead of fiddling around for mere amusement. (oh, let's speculate on this. We won't find any answers but it will be fun to just do it!). Lastly, while books like this do shed information on some areas they rarely ever change anyone's opinion. If you look at the world from a Darwinian point of view that's fine..In fact, it may even be more truthful than the traditionalist point of view but to say you cannot live if you accept the traditionalist point of view (even if it may be false) is simply incorrect. So eventually one is left with the nagging question...what difference does it make? Is it just to satisfy mere intellectual curiosity? Well Rachels is arguing that it may affect how we look at things morally speaking. This is true but I'm not so sure that the fundamental difference is great enough to affect great cultural change. Is looking at animals as humans' relatives going to change the way we act as opposed to looking at animals as distinctly different from humans? Not really. We can still behave with compassion towards all forms of life regardless of what viewpoint we take. This is very similar to Buddhist thought. Basically, I believe that the main difference is just how you perceive things individually and how you act with regard to this. I think this was what Rachels was getting at. You can accept any viewpoint of morality as long as it contributes to a greater good. You can have God or not have Him. If it improves the overall quality of your life and another being's life it's good. If not..probably best to reject it.	2004-04-15
US	38383958	R1GHZZ83T2OUJR	0618334661	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting Topics-Second-rate book	Reefer Madness is a collection of 3 extended essays about the underground market in America for marijuana, migrant workers, and pornography. The author has focused primarily on the economic aspects of the underground. The topics themselves are quite interesting. Reading about the strict laws against marijuana use are both frightening and mind-boggling. How can consuming something as harmless as a joint warrant a harsher sentence than what is often handed out to murderers or other violent criminals? How is the US contributing to the influx of illegal immigrants in the US by failing to regulate agricultural growers who employ migrant laborers from Mexico for little to nothing? What does the overwhelming consumption of porn in the US reveal about how out of touch mainstream thought and criticism regarding porn are from what many people feel about it privately? The point being there is never an absence of food for thought. Schlosser feels that few laws albeit strictly enforced ones and government regulation of certain areas like business and worker's rights are necessary to produce the kind of equal and fair economy and country that most people espouse. Few would disagree with him there. Ultimately though, this book is somewhat stilted and doesn't form a very cohesive whole. While some of the essays seem to hold great promise they aren't developed enough and seem to be a little helter-skelter. As if the author gathered up his information from previous papers and interviews and decided to just throw it together to form a book. You understand his position but not convincingly. I am sure the author was riding a high after his previous success with Fast Food Nation but this book fizzles and eventually becomes less than hoped for. Once again, interesting food for thought but to feel sufficiently informed about these subjects you'll have to turn elsewhere for more detailed and channeled knowledge.	2004-04-12
US	38383958	R2ZMD7SGQEA7IT	0060002441	494109901	Sons of Heaven: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty good Debut novel	I stumbled across this book rather by accident but decided to read it because it looked somewhat compelling. This is a novel containing a fictionalized account of the Tiananmen Square incident. The story itself is told through the eyes of 3 different people so you get more of a whole perspective. We hear the story through the dissident protester (younger brother), through the soldier called into Beijing to help squash the rebellion (older brother) and through the eyes of the old Chinese ruler Deng Xiaoping. The younger brother Xiao Di has more liberal views and even attended college in America. While returning to Beijing he got caught up in some protests that had dire effects for him when the state dept. learned of his identity. His older brother Lu is a solider in the army and seems to be somewhat mentally facile, more or less doing what he's told and never really questioning that his orders may not be best for the people. Deng is shown as a semi-retired old man who doesn't quite understand how the people could doubt that he acted in their best interests and why they would want to cause a disturbance with the way things are presently. After all, aren't things better now than they were in the past? It's obvious while reading this book that the Author Cheng has done quite a bit of research. I felt that the book kept me interested in reading to see how events would turn out and also gave me a somewhat fresh perspective on how difficult and trying life can be under a state-controlled regime. It made me think of how we should all appreciate the freedoms and rights we've been granted in the United States. You also come to understand the reasons why the ruler Deng Xiaoping acts as he does even if you don't quite support his thoughts or ideas. All-in-all I was pleasantly surprised with this book. It reads pretty quickly and I would recommend it. I hope this author continues to improve and give us more works in the future.	2004-04-09
US	38383958	RROYUDAQ2L488	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Fascinating Book in Many Ways	This book can be described perhaps as many stories wrapped in one. It's the story of an upsetting murder by Mormon fundamentalist brothers of their sister-in-law and her baby in 1984. It's the story of Joseph Smith and the beginning history of the Mormon faith and their migrations from Ohio to Missouri to Illinois to Utah and ultimately Joseph's demise. It's the story of Brigham Young and the church's views regarding polygamy and other doctrines within the church. In other words, you get a brief overview of the whole religion from its beginning to present day formations plus you get on top of that the gruesome story of a murder and what drove these brothers to commit this atrocious act. The reader gets a chance to peer inside the minds of religious zealots and to see how irrational or outlandish some beliefs can be and what the consequences of this may be. As you read the book you get the feeling that Krakauer is both fascinated by Mormon culture but at the same time probably doesn't agree or even understand for sure how people could cling to beliefs that are in many ways unscientific, irrational, and for lack of better explanation downright nutty. However, he doesn't make fun of, or belittle the people who hold such beliefs but merely explains that it's more than likely a product of environment/culture and the yearning to be comforted...to have the answers given to us in times of distress. Ultimately though one has to come to the conclusion that life is a great mystery and that we don't always have all the answers and in fact God may not be talking to us or sending down aliens to probe our bodies. Really an excellent book that is both entertaining and educational. I highly recommend it.	2004-04-06
US	38383958	R17R5BWRKO58QV	0803292112	132903709	Crazy Horse: The Strange Man of the Oglalas (50th Anniversary Edition)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Strange Book about a Strange Man	This book is interesting because of the way it's told. It reads much like a novel would read. It's related from an Indian omniscient point of view. In other words you feel as if a Native American were sitting down recounting the tale. During the story we see Crazy Horse grow from a young boy called Curly hanging around his warrior friend Hump to a mighty warrior brave in battle. Sadly as most people know his people endured many hardships and many broken promises made by soldiers representing the Great Father. Reading this you can't help but be somewhat moved and have compassion for the eventual demise of the Oglalas that was well underway during Crazy Horse's life. Towards the latter part of the book emotions run deep as you see how jealousy, anger, and greed ripped apart what could have been good relations among the different Native American peoples. Of course, Crazy Horse the man we come to know in this book undergoes many of the hardships of the people himself. Almost as if he is the embodiment of the transition from the Indians to the white man's world at any cost. <br />I did have a couple of problems with this book though. Namely, I found the writer's sentences to be ambiguous a lot of the time. There are no complicated words here as she is trying to write in the plain-spoken Indian style but many times I felt she was unclear so you would find yourself reading passages several times over to try and get sure her meaning. After a while this can become tedious. I also felt the prose could have been more lucid. Just because you're telling a story in a plain-spoken style doesn't mean you have to forsake any intellctual-sounding prose altogether. For these reasons it can be a taxing read which made what could have been a great book into just a good book. I still do recommend this work for a good perspective on the Native American view of history (even though some of the historical events in the book are no doubt dubious) if you are prepared to put in some effort andtime reading it.	2004-04-01
US	38383958	RTYZ14MNLVU39	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	4	45	56	N	N	Moderately Good Read	I found the title of this work somewhat misleading. Perhaps it should have been called A History of the Natural Sciences or maybe even A Short History of Natural History. Nevertheless, science books often do not sell well so I am sure <BR>the idea in titling the book A Short History of Nearly Everything was to attract more of a broad readership. The book itself isn't awful but certainly reads like a survey work. In other words, you won't learn complicated how-tos of scientific <BR>methodology but you will get a good general idea of a lot of different topics. Some of the things discussed are the origin of the universe, the solar system, the arising of life, and of course man himself or homo sapiens. I found it slightly paradoxical that Bryson spends a good portion of the book building up this almost supernatural-like awe in the reader for the amazing position we find ourselves in of being alive and also of the magical wonder of the universe itself. It's enough to make even the most staunched atheist have reverence. In fact, I could see an atheist while reading the book saying that's God doing that! However, towards the end of the book Bryson seems to take the counter view that we are ultimately doomed to extinction and with continued acts of <BR>stuipidity will be just another blip on the evolutionary scale. Despite this the book reads okay for the most part but is interspersed with relative periods of dryness. However, it's difficult to talk about things like algae and lichens and <BR>keep everyone interested at all times. Nevertheless, a pretty good read recommended if you keep in mind that it's a survey book that will help you do well on trivial pursuit but is not going to give you the know-how to usurp the current model of the universe. 3.5 out of 5 stars.	2004-03-31
US	38383958	R1GJ3386NLKR39	0804818282	949927759	Spirit of Shaolin: A Kung Fu Philosophy	Books	3	11	19	N	N	Too shallow Grasshopper	I found this book slightly misleading from the title but should have known considering books like this are a dime a dozen. This book starts off basically giving a low-down of Carradine's start with the Kung-Fu movies and TV series and then discusses some of his other films involving martial arts. From there it proceeds to give general lessons and personal musings on what kung fu is and encompasses. There are some historical mentionings like Bodidharma spreading the art to China from India, the significance of the Tao Te Ching, and a general history of Kung Fu. This book is by no means comprehensive and lacks that extra depth that is appealing for novices wanting to learn more about the art. I found the book to contain profound truth on many subjects but never really felt the message as most of it seemed like recycled cliches and stories you've heard a million times if you are familiar with the Eastern arts. One particular gripe I had about the book involves lack of accuracy. On page 92 Carradine writes, &quot;The limitation of karate stems, at least in part, from its association with Japanese-style Buddhism, which ignores or forgets the Chinese Taoist principles and replaces them with specific, and generally radical, ideas peculiar to the Japanese culture, i.e. Zen.  Much could be said about the subject of Zen, but we are interested here in kung fu, so best look elsewhere for that.&quot;  This is simply not true. There is a large body of work out there related to and examining Zen Buddhism. In this work you'll find that it's common knowledge that Zen is a combination of Chinese Buddhism and Taoist principles. Thus the word in Chinese for the Japanese Zen is Chan. Furthermore, Japanese karate is not necessarily limiting. It's just an evolved development of the spread of martial arts from the mainland to an island. The same philosophical lessons and achievements to be gained in kung fu can also be gained in Japanese karate with the proper attitude and focus. Anyway, this book reads pretty quick and if you are interested in some light-philosophical reading that you shouldn't take too seriously you might enjoy this book. Otherwise, delve into the fascinating martial arts by reading other material.	2004-03-15
US	38383958	R342KPG726J48P	0805070893	702232531	Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience, Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our Time	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Lacking a little	This book seems to hold great promise from the outset. It's a book (as the author would confess) that values reason, science, knowledge and the examination of beliefs. Nothing wrong with that. However, the book seems to ramble on a bit and takes on the feel of the author's personal musings instead of objective examination of the material. A couple of the chapters could be condensed into one chapter that contains more focus and sticks to the topic. For instance, in one chapter Shermer drones on about the diff. aspects of creation-science and real science which is testable. This is great except he lists a myriad of arguments in brief. The only way you could do anything worthwhile with the material intellectually is to dig deeper into other books with more insight on the topic. In other words, you aren't going to reach any conclusions yay or nay with such brief explanations. He discusses holocaust denial in a &quot;part&quot; of the book which is fine except a couple of the chapters once again could be condensed since the later chapter seems to rehash much of what was said before only in greater detail. Lastly, the very last chapter which deals with a Dr. Tipler and his fantasy-like Omega Point theory is superfluous. This is Shermer's personal book review of Tipler's physics work. To put it crudely, who really gives a crap except someone with a vested interest in physics? A short description of the weirdness of Tipler's work would have been sufficient. Also, one other gripe; Shermer seems to portray the personal idea that objective science is good and that theories are subject to change over time-&quot;facts are data&quot;. Yet, despite him stating these points I found him more than once claiming evolution as fact. I am not saying that it isn't but am suggesting he should reframe himself to say it's commonly accepted as fact because of such and such testable evidence. Also, Shermer does discuss fringe beliefs somewhat such as; alien abductions, afrocentrism, witch hunts and the like. However, in my opinion he strayed away too much from these interesting topics and went into personal musings about science instead.  Anyway, I can see many people giving negative reviews of this book simply because they do not like Shermer's relativistic, hard-science stand. That's no fault of his own though...Finally, I would recommend the book despite its flaws because it is for lack of a better description interesting. It could have been much better but we will have to accept it on merit of the ideas it espouses and not so much for the overall content.	2004-03-13
US	38383958	R1OY68NXN6S4JR	0935741011	256970625	The Story of the Cherokee People	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nice book for younger people.	I happened to come across this book and seeing that it was relatively short in length decided to read it in a sitting. It's small but has some nice illustrations and is rendered in a manner that even young children could understand. It doesn't cover a vast array of topics concerning the Cherokee people obviously, but does cover some of the more important basics. Things such as the Trail of Tears, the early migration of asiatic peoples to the US from a land-bridge, and Sequoyah the famous Cherokee man who invented their alphabet are discussed. Also, there is a nice section from an 80 year old man who was an army private who knew the Cherokee people well and provides a touching account of their forced migration from eastern Indian territories to land in the West. Good quick read for younger peoples wanting to learn a little bit about Native American history and hopefully getting the urge to investigate more.	2004-03-13
US	38383958	R2GWJC0BUI8081	0684849577	185008673	The WAR AGAINST BOYS: How Misguided Feminism Is Harming Our Young Men	Books	4	13	25	N	N	He Said-She Said, Nature vs. Nurture	Sommers certainly paints a rather bleak and contrastingly different picture from what many institutions would have us believe. Namely, that girls have been getting short-changed in schools. It would seem the contrary is true.  By focusing on girls more and more since they may be getting short-changed educators have neglected boys to the point of many boys being semi-literate, and academically behind.<br />Sommers goes into factual detail about how she is in stark disagreement with noted feminists writers on education like Carol Gilligan. She also disagrees with many other institutions and the Government when they center their education programs around the idea of &quot;short-changed girls&quot;. She lists a myriad of facts that all point to the conclusion that you can't overthrow a supposedly defunct patriarchal order and proclaim equality for all while putting in its place an equally bad matriarchal substitute. <br />Later Sommers elaborates on more philosophical themes. She goes into some detail of how data and research seem to show that boys are the way they are because of their innate natures and and less because of socialization on the part of society. I would for the most part agree with her that there are just basic neurological differences that do make men and women inherently different. This isn't necessarily a bad thing-it's just the way it is. <br />Lastly, the author goes into a little more explanation on how progressive forms of educating children simply do not work because they create an amoral environment where children do not learn basic moral values. Ineptness on the part of teachers and schools to teach more directive forms of moral education to children can have horrible consequences as we have seen in such cases as the Littleton, CO disaster. <br />I think this book presents an interesting thesis and one that I would agree with for the most part. I think there has been too much emphasis placed upon specious data that is leading to a negative environment for men and boys. However, I don't really feel that men have been denied opportunity to thrive or prosper in society at the expense of girls. At least not yet. This book for the above reasons will maintain your interest but one gripe I did have was I thought the book got extremely dry in parts. Too many facts ushered out one after another will have you shaking your head to clear the cobwebs after a while. Anyway, see what you think.	2004-03-05
US	38383958	R3NHHI7YBI7SQG	0807010391	215317539	The Rastafarians: Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Jah Rastafari!	Being somewhat familiar with the Rastafari movement already and being somewhat fascinated by the culture I decided to read this book. The book starts out by tracing the history of slavery in Jamaica and outlining the conditions that precipitated a movement such as Rastafarianism which seeks a more equitable and just society. A decent amount is dedicated to Ethiopia and the idea of Ethiopianism where Rastafarians basically view this country in the same way as Zion is viewed by the Jews. Later elaboration explains mythical elements of the religion as well as the symbols, beliefs and rituals of the group such as smoking herb for a deeper understanding of a cosmic consciousness. I especially enjoyed the parts in the book where the author expounded upon the artistic improvements Rastas have made not only in Jamaica but the world over with things such as reggae music. Also kudos to him for talking about Bob Marley because he is a good reason the religion has gained popularity the world over. I won't give this book a 5 of 5 though because I did find the last chapter to be somewhat rambling and some of the ideas in the book are repeated a little bit too much for my taste. I think some people who aren't as interested in the movement as I am would have a little trouble keeping interested the whole way through. All-in-all though I think this is a pretty good read and does a good job explaining the basics of the Rastafarian beliefs and also gives detail about the socio-economic factors that contributed to this voice against colonialism and oppression.	2004-03-01
US	38383958	RQ5XW3QRKSKX	0803261705	956476909	Black Elk Speaks: Being the Life Story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux, Twenty-First Century Edition	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Heartfelt Tale	This work relates some of the main events of the life of a man (Black Elk) who was both an Indian warrior and holy man. He had several visions when he was younger including one great one which formed much of his later thought and also how he viewed his people. It's a heartwrenching story because one can't help but feel saddened while listening to this man relate how his people lost their land and also many of their own in battles. Also one is moved to sadness by hearing of the instances when the Government lied to his people and either gave them half of what they said they would (in the way of land or cattle) or flat out didn't uphold the terms of a treaty. As Black Elk said, &quot;You can't eat lies.&quot; One is reminded how devastating our modern notion of progress has been while we have wallowed in the ignorance of other people and also of the Great Mother (Earth). We've lost out on much of a great culture with the Indians and their way of life and also ruined a lot of the environment out of notions of stupidity such as looking for yellow metal. I recommend this book to get you thinking about how to have compassion for all peoples regardless of how different or savage they may appear and also so we hopefully never make some of the dastardly mistakes other people have made in the past.	2004-02-25
US	38383958	R36DGTPEM8F0TI	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	3	8	21	N	N	Yawn zzzzzz	As has been stated elsewhere this book seems to hold great promise at the outset only to slip into terrible redundancy. The earlier stages of the book are mildly interesting when the author is attempting to explain the origins of God and also ideas certain people held about the concept of God. However, we see these same ideas mentioned time and time again throughout the rest of the book when there is no need since they had been elucidated earlier. Also, I would have appreciated the book more if the chapters had been broken up into subsections (such as Judaism thought on Mysticism etc.) instead of just bouncing around all over the place. The author is liable to be talking about Christianity and then just suddenly switch to discussing elements of Islam without a proper segue.  Lastly, I must say that a subject that should be lively and energetic and captivating to the reader is rendered all but dull and tedious by the continual droning on and rambling without getting to a clear point. The only props I will give the author concerns the fact that this is an arduous subject to write about and there was a lot of information contained therein. However, if you are wanting to read an exciting and lively text concerning the History of God in monotheistic faiths I would recommend something else.	2004-02-22
US	38383958	R26D8Q26S7DI9D	0872861554	846358236	Tales of Ordinary Madness	Books	3	13	52	N	N	One Can Only Pity Him	Some of the stories contained in this collection are comical as has been mentioned. However, for the most part the stories come off as vulgar, crass, and lacking artistic direction. I was continually reminded of the proverbial &quot;hack&quot; typing away at his typewriter while reading this collection. Now if you happen to like rape, bestiality, references to crap, gambling, horse-races, alcoholism, and smoking cigarettes then this may just be the book you are looking for. After reading through these stories one is continually reminded how pathetic and lifeless a human being can become and for what? Why is Bukowski a sad, broken-down, hack? Well, he never tells us and one can only surmise that it's because he is naturally lazy or lacks motivation. Anyway, I won't completely knock him because some of his writing seemed to show promise but it was undeveloped promise that needed more refinement and a touch of class.	2004-02-13
US	38383958	RWUSS4ZKKXYGD	0380804891	283653015	Blood and Splendor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Tales of Madness and Splendor!	As has been stated in other reviews this book has a nice literary style to it which makes the history contained therein come alive. In other words you don't get bogged down with stodgy facts and boring detail but become enthralled with the chilling tales of insanity and cruelty committed by these tyrants. It's really interesting to consider the parallels of these different rulers and the similarities they had to each other regarding different aspects of their lives (such as rough childhoods etc.). Some people have questioned the merit of this book based upon the idea that some details may not be 100% accurate. However, that really makes no difference since all of history as told by historians is always history based upon inclusions of certain details and exclusions of other areas. This isn't to say that the historian shouldn't try to be completely factual but rather that many so-called &quot;sacred&quot; elements of history are brought into question later. So enjoy the ride and be shocked and awed by the brutal tales of these tyrants.	2004-02-10
US	38383958	R3RY29K1F9B0D	0789496097	519022271	Ideas That Changed the World	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enlightening and Fun Read.	This book focuses on ideas thought to be important or pivotal to the development of history and humans. It's a somewhat cursory examination which is both a blessing and a burden. A blessing from the aspect that you don't get bogged down on one idea for a long period of time and also a burden because sometimes certain ideas interest you to the point where you want to read more about them. The book contains many nice illustrations and captions which tend to liven the subject and make it more alluring. The breadth and scope of ideas covered is another nice feature, however, some ideas (such as those on fascism and national superiority) tend to be overlapping and can become tedious. All-in-all though I would recommend it as a good refresher book or something suitable to get your thinking cap on.	2004-02-04
US	38383958	R1EGICG7NDNQAY	0060564725	621337207	100 Simple Secrets of Healthy People: What Scientists Have Learned and How You Can Use it	Books	3	35	36	N	N	&quot;Cutesy&quot; little read.	This is a small book that basically gives 100 recommendations to obtain or maintain health. Most of the advice (even though there's nothing in the way of in-depth) is sound although it's pretty much just common sense. In other words if you are moderately health-conscious I don't think you are in for any great discoveries. One of the more ridiculous suggestions in the book was that you could get the daily amount of water you need simply by the foods you eat and that you shouldn't drink a lot of water. Anyone who is anyone in the fitness or nutrition industry will tell you how important and absolutely vital it is to drink water owing to the facts that it keeps you hydrated, cleans your system, and is the best natural diuretic we have. At times this book comes off dry and monotonous but it's one of those books that's interesting enough and &quot;feel good&quot; enough to keep you reading long enough to get through it without too much distaste.	2004-02-04
